Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the more peripheral por- 2. P- cell axons conduct impulses much more slowly tions of the retina, so signals from the rods summate to than do M cells. 649 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses 3. The responses of P cells to stimuli, especially color on off stimuli, can be sustained, whereas the responses of M cells are much more transient. 1 4. The P cells are generally sensitive to the color of a Excitation stimulus, whereas M cells are not sensitive to color stimuli. 2 5. The M cells are much more sensitive than are P cells Lateral inhibition to low-c ontrast, black and white stimuli. Figure 51- 14. Responses of a ganglion cell to light in (1) an area The main functions of M and P cells are obvious from excited by a spot of light and (2) an area adjacent to the excited their differences: The P cells are highly sensitive to visual spot. The ganglion cell in this area is inhibited by the mechanism signals that relate to fine details and to different colors but of lateral inhibition. (Modified from Granit R: Receptors and Sensory Perception: A Discussion of Aims, Means, and Results of Electrophysi- are relatively insensitive to low-c ontrast signals, whereas ological Research into the Process of Reception. New Haven, CT: Yale the M cells are highly sensitive to low-c ontrast stimuli and University Press, 1955.) to rapid movement visual signals. A third type of photosensitive retinal ganglion cell has been described that contains its own photopigment, Conversely, the same gnat sitting quietly remains below melanopsin. Much less is known about this cell type, but the threshold of visual detection. these cells appear to send signals mainly to nonvisual areas Transmission of Signals Depicting of the brain, particularly the suprachiasmatic nucleus of Contrasts in the Visual Scene—The Role the hypothalamus, the master circadian pacemaker. Pre- of Lateral Inhibition sumably, these signals help control circadian rhythms that synchronize physiological changes with night and day. Many ganglion cells respond mainly to contrast borders in the scene, which seems to be the major means whereby the pattern of a scene is transmitted to the brain. When EXCITATION OF THE GANGLION CELLS flat light is applied to the entire retina, and all the photo- receptors are stimulated equally by the incident light, the Spontaneous, Continuous Action Potentials in the contrast type of ganglion
