Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


light is applied to the entire retina, and all the photo- receptors are stimulated equally by the incident light, the Spontaneous, Continuous Action Potentials in the contrast type of ganglion cell is neither stimulated nor Ganglion Cells. It is from the ganglion cells that the long inhibited. The reason for this is that signals transmitted fibers of the optic nerve lead into the brain. Because of the directly from the photoreceptors through depolarizing distance involved, the electrotonic method of conduction bipolar cells are excitatory, whereas the signals transmitted employed in the rods, cones, and bipolar cells in the retina laterally through hyperpolarizing bipolar cells, as well as is no longer appropriate; therefore, ganglion cells trans- through horizontal cells, are mainly inhibitory. Thus, the mit their signals by means of repetitive action potentials direct excitatory signal through one pathway is likely to instead. Furthermore, even when unstimulated, they still be neutralized by inhibitory signals through lateral path- transmit continuous impulses at rates varying between 5 ways. One circuit for this process is demonstrated in Fig- and 40 per second. The visual signals, in turn, are super- ure 51- 15, which shows three photoreceptors at the top of imposed onto this background ganglion cell firing. the illustration. The central receptor excites a depolarizing Transmission of Changes in Light Intensity—The On- bipolar cell. The two receptors on each side are connected Off Response. As noted previously, many ganglion cells to the same bipolar cell through inhibitory horizontal cells are specifically excited by changes in light intensity, dem- that neutralize the direct excitatory signal if all three recep- onstrated by the records of nerve impulses in Figure 51- tors are stimulated simultaneously by light. 14. The upper panel shows rapid impulses for a fraction of Now, let us examine what happens when a contrast a second when a light is first turned on, but these impulses border occurs in the visual scene. Referring again to decrease rapidly in the next fraction of a second. The low- Figure 51- 15, assume that the central photoreceptor is er tracing is from a ganglion cell located laterally to the stimulated by a bright spot of light while one of the two spot of light; this cell is markedly inhibited when the light lateral receptors is in the dark. The bright spot of light is turned on because of lateral inhibition. Then, when the excites the direct pathway
