Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


markedly inhibited when the light lateral receptors is in the dark. The bright spot of light is turned on because of lateral inhibition. Then, when the excites the direct pathway through the bipolar cell. The light is turned off, opposite effects occur. The opposite fact that one of the lateral photoreceptors is in the dark directions of these responses to light are caused, respec- causes one of the horizontal cells to remain unstimulated. tively, by the depolarizing and hyperpolarizing bipolar Therefore, this cell does not inhibit the bipolar cell, which cells, and the transient nature of the responses is probably allows extra excitation of the bipolar cell. Thus, where at least partly generated by the amacrine cells, many of visual contrasts occur, the signals through the direct and which have similar transient responses themselves. lateral pathways accentuate one another. This capability of the eyes to detect changes in light In summary, the mechanism of lateral inhibition func- intensity is strongly developed in the peripheral retina tions in the eye in the same way that it functions in most and the central retina. For example, a minute gnat fly- other sensory systems—to provide contrast detection and ing across the field of vision is instantaneously detected. enhancement. 650 CHAPTER 51 The Eye: II. Receptor and Neural Function of the Retina the direct excitatory route through a depolarizing bipolar cell, whereas the other color type inhibits the ganglion cell by the indirect inhibitory route through a hyperpolarizing bipolar cell. The importance of these color contrast mechanisms is that they represent a means whereby the retina begins to differentiate colors. Thus, each color contrast type of ganglion cell is excited by one color but inhibited by the Excitation “opponent” color. Therefore, color analysis begins in the retina and is not entirely a function of the brain. Bibliography Bringmann A, Syrbe S, Görner K, et al: The primate fovea: structure, H H function and development. Prog Retin Eye Res 66:49, 2018. Do MT, Yau KW: Intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells. Inhibition B Physiol Rev 90:1547, 2010. Douglas RH: The pupillary light responses of animals; a review of their distribution, dynamics, mechanisms and functions. Prog Retin Eye Res 66:17, 2018. Fain GL, Matthews HR, Cornwall MC, Koutalos Y: Adaptation in ver- tebrate photoreceptors. Physiol Rev 81:117, 2001. Gill JS, Georgiou M, Kalitzeos A, Moore AT, Michaelides M: Progres- sive cone and cone- rod dystrophies: clinical features,
