Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


repair of eye-t o- brain type. For example, this mechanism frequently occurs for connections. Curr Opin Neurobiol 53:198, 2018. the red and green cones, with red causing excitation and Vinberg F, Chen J, Kefalov VJ: Regulation of calcium homeostasis in green causing inhibition, or vice versa. the outer segments of rod and cone photoreceptors. Prog Retin Eye Res 67:87, 2018. The same type of reciprocal effect occurs between Wienbar S, Schwartz GW: The dynamic receptive fields of retinal gan- blue cones on the one hand and a combination of red and glion cells. Prog Retin Eye Res 67:102, 2018. green cones (both of which are excited by yellow) on the Wubben TJ, Zacks DN, Besirli CG: Retinal neuroprotection: current other hand, giving a reciprocal excitation-i nhibition rela- strategies and future directions. Curr Opin Ophthalmol 30:199, tion between the blue and yellow colors. 2019. The mechanism of this opposing effect of colors is as follows. One color type of cone excites the ganglion cell by 651 UNIT X CHAPTER 5 2 The Eye: III. Central Neurophysiology of Vision VISUAL PATHWAYS light reflex; (3) into the superior colliculus to control rapid Figure 52- 1 shows the principal visual pathways from the directional movements of the two eyes; and (4) into the two retinas to the visual cortex. The visual nerve signals ventral lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus and sur- leave the retinas through the optic nerves. At the optic rounding basal regions of the brain, presumably to help chiasm, the optic nerve fibers from the nasal halves of control some of the body’s behavioral functions. the retinas cross to the opposite sides, where they join Thus, the visual pathways can be divided roughly into the fibers from the opposite temporal retinas to form the an old system to the midbrain and base of the forebrain optic tracts. The fibers of each optic tract then synapse and a new system for direct transmission of visual sig- in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus nals into the visual cortex located in the occipital lobes. and, from there, geniculocalcarine fibers pass via the optic In humans, the new system is responsible for perception radiation (also called the geniculocalcarine tract) to the of virtually all aspects of visual form, colors, and other primary visual cortex in the calcarine fissure area of the conscious vision. In many primitive animals, however, medial occipital lobe. even
