Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


virtually all aspects of visual form, colors, and other primary visual cortex in the calcarine fissure area of the conscious vision. In many primitive animals, however, medial occipital lobe. even visual form is detected by the older system, using Visual fibers also pass to several older areas of the brain: the superior colliculus in the same manner that the visual (1) from the optic tracts to the suprachiasmatic nucleus cortex is used in mammals. of the hypothalamus, presumably to control circadian FUNCTION OF THE DORSAL LATERAL rhythms that synchronize various physiological changes GENICULATE NUCLEUS OF THE of the body with night and day; (2) into the pretectal nuclei THALAMUS in the midbrain to elicit reflex movements of the eyes to focus on objects of importance and activate the pupillary The optic nerve fibers of the new visual system terminate in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, located at the dor- sal end of the thalamus and also called the lateral genic- Lateral geniculate body ulate body, as shown in Figure 52- 1. The dorsal lateral Optic tract geniculate nucleus serves two principal functions. First, it Optic radiation Optic chiasm relays visual information from the optic tract to the visual cortex by way of the optic radiation. This relay function is Optic nerve so accurate that there is exact point to point transmission Left eye with a high degree of spatial fidelity all the way from the retina to the visual cortex. After passing the optic chiasm, half the fibers in each optic tract are derived from one eye and half are derived from the other eye, representing corresponding points on Visual Superior cortex colliculus the two retinas. However, the signals from the two eyes are kept apart in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. This nucleus is composed of six nuclear layers. Layers II, III, and V (from ventral to dorsal) receive signals from the lat- eral half of the ipsilateral retina, whereas layers I, IV, and VI receive signals from the medial half of the retina of the Right eye opposite eye. The respective retinal areas of the two eyes connect with neurons that are superimposed over one Figure 52- 1. Principal visual pathways from the eyes to the visual another in the paired layers, and similar parallel transmis- cortex. sion is preserved all the way to the visual cortex. 653 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special
