Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in the paired layers, and similar parallel transmis- cortex. sion is preserved all the way to the visual cortex. 653 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses The second major function of the dorsal lateral genicu- late nucleus is to “gate” the transmission of signals to the visual cortex—that is, to control how much of the signal is allowed to pass to the cortex. The nucleus receives gating control signals from two major sources: (1) corticofugal fibers returning in a backward direction from the pri- Secondary mary visual cortex to the lateral geniculate nucleus; and visual areas (2) reticular areas of the mesencephalon. Both of these sources are inhibitory and, when stimulated, can turn off Calcarine fissure transmission through selected portions of the dorsal lat- eral geniculate nucleus. Both of these gating circuits help highlight the visual information that is allowed to pass. Primary Finally, the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus is divided visual cortex in another way: 1. Layers I and II are called magnocellular layers be- 90° 60° 20° Macula cause they contain large neurons. These neurons re- ceive their input almost entirely from the large type Figure 52- 2. The visual cortex in the calcarine fissure area of the medial occipital cortex. M retinal ganglion cells. This magnocellular system provides a rapidly conducting pathway to the visual cortex. However, this system is color blind, trans- Motor cortex Somatosensory area I mitting only black-and-white information. Also, its Form, point to point transmission is poor because there 3D position, are not many M ganglion cells, and their dendrites motion spread widely in the retina. 2. Layers III through VI are called parvocellular lay- ers because they contain large numbers of small 18 to medium- sized neurons. These neurons receive 17 their input almost entirely from the type P retinal ganglion cells that transmit color and convey accu- rate point to point spatial information, but at only a Primary moderate velocity of conduction rather than at high visual velocity. cortex Secondary Visual detail, visual color cortex ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTION OF THE VISUAL CORTEX Figure 52- 3. Transmission of visual signals from the primary visual cortex into secondary visual areas on the lateral surfaces of the oc- cipital and parietal cortices. Note that the signals representing form, Figures 52- 2 and 52- 3 show the visual cortex, which is third- dimensional (3D) position, and motion are transmitted mainly
