Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and parietal cortices. Note that the signals representing form, Figures 52- 2 and 52- 3 show the visual cortex, which is third- dimensional (3D) position, and motion are transmitted mainly located primarily on the medial aspect of the occipital into the superior portions of the occipital lobe and posterior portions lobes. Like the cortical representations of the other sen- of the parietal lobe. By contrast, the signals for visual detail and color sory systems, the visual cortex is divided into a primary are transmitted mainly into the anteroventral portion of the occipital visual cortex and secondary visual areas. lobe and the ventral portion of the posterior temporal lobe. Primary Visual Cortex. The primary visual cortex (see degree of visual acuity. Based on retinal area, the fovea Figure 52- 2) lies in the calcarine fissure area, extending has several hundred times as much representation in the forward from the occipital pole on the medial aspect of primary visual cortex as do the most peripheral portions each occipital cortex. This area is the terminus of direct of the retina. visual signals from the eyes. Signals from the macular area The primary visual cortex is also called visual area I or of the retina terminate near the occipital pole, as shown the striate cortex because this area has a grossly striated in Figure 52- 2, whereas signals from the more peripheral appearance. retina terminate at or in concentric half-c ircles anterior to the pole but still along the calcarine fissure on the medial Secondary Visual Areas of the Cortex. The secondary occipital lobe. The upper portion of the retina is repre- visual areas, also called visual association areas, lie lateral, sented superiorly, and the lower portion is represented anterior, superior, and inferior to the primary visual cor- inferiorly. tex. Most of these areas also fold outward over the lateral Note in the figure the large area that represents the surfaces of the occipital and parietal cortex, as shown in macula. It is to this region that the retinal fovea trans- Figure 52- 3. Secondary signals are transmitted to these mits its signals. The fovea is responsible for the highest areas for analysis of visual meanings. For example, on all 654 CHAPTER 52 The Eye: III. Central Neurophysiology of Vision terminate in layer IV, but at points different from the M I signals. They terminate in layers IVa and IVcβ, the shal- lowest and
