Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Eye: III. Central Neurophysiology of Vision terminate in layer IV, but at points different from the M I signals. They terminate in layers IVa and IVcβ, the shal- lowest and deepest portions of layer IV, shown to the II right in Figure 52- 4. From there, these signals are trans- mitted vertically both toward the surface of the cortex III and to deeper layers. It is these P ganglion pathways that (a) transmit the accurate point to point type of vision, as well as color vision. (b) Color IV (c(cid:30)) “blobs” Vertical Neuronal Columns in the Visual Cortex. The visual cortex is organized structurally into several million (c(cid:31)) vertical columns of neuronal cells, with each column hav- ing a diameter of 30 to 50 micrometers. The same vertical V columnar organization is found throughout the cerebral cortex for the other senses as well (and also in the motor VI and analytical cortical regions). Each column represents a functional unit. One can roughly calculate that each of the visual vertical columns has perhaps 1000 or more neu- LGN LGN rons. (magnocellular) (parvocellular) After the optic signals terminate in layer IV, they are further processed as they spread outward and inward Retinal Retinal along each vertical column unit. This processing is "M" "P" believed to decipher separate bits of visual information ganglion ganglion at successive stations along the pathway. The signals that pass outward to layers I, II, and III eventually transmit sig- Fast, Black and White Very Accurate, Color nals for short distances laterally in the cortex. The signals Figure 52- 4. Six layers of the primary visual cortex. The connections that pass inward to layers V and VI excite neurons that shown on the left side of the figure originate in the magnocellular transmit signals over much greater distances. layers of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and transmit rapidly changing black and white visual signals. The pathways to the right originate in the parvocellular layers (layers III–VI) of the LGN; they “Color Blobs” in the Visual Cortex. Interspersed among transmit signals that depict accurate spatial detail, as well as color. the primary visual columns, as well as among the columns Note especially the areas of the visual cortex called color blobs, which of some of the secondary visual areas, are special column- are necessary for detection of color. like areas called color blobs. They receive lateral signals from adjacent visual
