Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


blobs, which of some of the secondary visual areas, are special column- are necessary for detection of color. like areas called color blobs. They receive lateral signals from adjacent visual columns and are activated specifi- sides of the primary visual cortex is Brodmann’s area 18 cally by color signals. Therefore, these blobs are presum- (see Figure 52- 3), which is where virtually all signals from ably the primary areas for deciphering color. the primary visual cortex pass next. Therefore, Brod- mann’s area 18 is called visual area II, or simply V- 2. The Interaction of Visual Signals From the Two Separate other, more distant secondary visual areas have specific Eyes. Recall that visual signals from the two separate designations—V- 3, V- 4, and so forth—up to more than a eyes are relayed through separate neuronal layers in the dozen areas. The importance of all these areas is that vari- lateral geniculate nucleus. These signals remain separat- ous aspects of the visual image are progressively dissected ed from each other when they arrive in layer IV of the and analyzed. primary visual cortex. In fact, layer IV is interlaced with THE PRIMARY VISUAL CORTEX HAS SIX stripes of neuronal columns, with each stripe about 0.5 MAJOR LAYERS millimeter wide; the signals from one eye enter the col- umns of every other stripe, alternating with signals from Like almost all other portions of the cerebral cortex, the the second eye. This cortical area deciphers whether the primary visual cortex has six distinct layers, as shown in respective areas of the two visual images from the two Figure 52- 4. Also, as is true for the other sensory systems, separate eyes are “in register” with each other—that is, the geniculocalcarine fibers terminate mainly in layer IV, whether corresponding points from the two retinas fit but this layer is also organized into subdivisions. The rap- with each other. In turn, the deciphered information is idly conducted signals from the M retinal ganglion cells used to adjust the directional gaze of the separate eyes so terminate in layer IVcα, and from there they are relayed that they will fuse with each other (i.e., be brought into vertically, both outward toward the cortical surface and “register”). The information observed about degree of inward toward deeper levels. register of images from the two eyes also allows a person The visual signals from the medium- sized optic nerve
