Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


The information observed about degree of inward toward deeper levels. register of images from the two eyes also allows a person The visual signals from the medium- sized optic nerve to distinguish the distance of objects by the mechanism fibers, derived from the P ganglion cells in the retina, also of stereopsis. 655 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses Two Major Pathways for Analysis of Visual Informa- tion: (1) The Fast “Position” and “Motion” Pathway and (2) the Accurate Color Pathway. Figure 52- 3 shows that after leaving the primary visual cortex, the visual information is analyzed in two major pathways in the secondary visual areas. 1. Analysis of Third-D imensional Position, Gross Form, and Motion of Objects. One of the analytical pathways, demonstrated in Figure 52- 3 by the black Retinal image Cortical stimulation arrows, analyzes the third-d imensional positions of Figure 52- 5. Pattern of excitation that occurs in the visual cortex in visual objects in the space around the body. This path- response to a retinal image of a dark cross. way also analyzes the gross physical form of the visual scene, as well as motion in the scene. This pathway stimulated adjacent retinal receptors mutually inhibit one reveals where every object is during each instant and another. However, at any border in the visual scene where whether it is moving. After leaving the primary visual there is a change from dark to light or light to dark, mu- cortex, the signals flow generally into the posterior tual inhibition does not occur, and the intensity of stimu- midtemporal area and upward into the broad occip- lation of most neurons is proportional to the gradient of itoparietal cortex. At the anterior border of the pari- contrast—that is, the greater the sharpness of contrast etal cortex, the signals overlap with signals from the and the greater the intensity difference between light and posterior somatic association areas that analyze three- dark areas, the greater the degree of stimulation. dimensional aspects of somatosensory signals. The signals transmitted in this position- form- motion path- Visual Cortex Also Detects Orientation of Lines and way are mainly from the large M optic nerve fibers of Borders—“Simple” Cells. The visual cortex detects not the retinal M ganglion cells, transmitting rapid signals only the existence of lines and borders in the different ar- but depicting only black and white with no
