Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cortex detects not the retinal M ganglion cells, transmitting rapid signals only the existence of lines and borders in the different ar- but depicting only black and white with no color. eas of the retinal image but also the direction of orienta- 2. Analysis of Visual Detail and Color. The red arrows tion of each line or border—that is, whether it is vertical in Figure 52- 3, passing from the primary visual cortex or horizontal or lies at some degree of inclination. This into secondary visual areas of the inferior, ventral, and capability is believed to result from linear organizations medial regions of the occipital and temporal cortex, of mutually inhibiting cells that excite second-o rder neu- show the principal pathway for analysis of visual detail. rons when inhibition occurs all along a line of cells where Separate portions of this pathway specifically dissect there is a contrast edge. Thus, for each such orientation out color as well. Therefore, this pathway is concerned of a line, specific neuronal cells are stimulated. A line with such visual feats as recognizing letters, reading, oriented in a different direction excites a different set of determining the texture of surfaces, determining de- cells. These neuronal cells are called simple cells. They are tailed colors of objects, and deciphering from all this found mainly in layer IV of the primary visual cortex. information what the object is and what it means. “Complex” Cells Detect Line Orientation When a Line Is Displaced Laterally or Vertically in the Visual NEURONAL PATTERNS OF Field. As the visual signal progresses farther away from STIMULATION DURING ANALYSIS OF layer IV, some neurons respond to lines that are oriented VISUAL IMAGES in the same direction but are not position- specific. That is, even if a line is displaced moderate distances laterally Analysis of Contrasts in Visual Images. If a person or vertically in the field, the same few neurons will still be looks at a blank wall, only a few neurons in the primary stimulated if the line has the same direction. These cells visual cortex will be stimulated, regardless of whether the are called complex cells. illumination of the wall is bright or weak. Therefore, what does the primary visual cortex detect? To answer this Detection of Lines of Specific Lengths, Angles, or question, let us now place on the wall a large solid cross, Other Shapes. Some neurons in
