Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


70 the fact that contrasting colors, called “opponent colors,” 240 80 300 excite specific neuronal cells. It is presumed that the ini- 255 270 285 tial details of color contrast are detected by simple cells, Figure 52- 6. Perimetry chart showing the field of vision for the left whereas more complex contrasts are detected by complex eye. The red circle shows the blind spot. and hypercomplex cells. Another condition that can be diagnosed by perimetry Effect of Removing the Primary Visual Cortex is retinitis pigmentosa. In this disease, portions of the retina degenerate, and excessive melanin pigment is deposited in Removal of the primary visual cortex in the human being the degenerated areas. Retinitis pigmentosa usually causes causes loss of conscious vision—that is, blindness. How- blindness in the peripheral field of vision first and then ever, psychological studies demonstrate that such “blind” gradually encroaches on the central areas. people can still, at times, react subconsciously to changes in light intensity, to movement in the visual scene or, rarely, even to some gross patterns of vision. These reactions in- EYE MOVEMENTS AND THEIR CONTROL clude turning the eyes, turning the head, and avoidance. This vision is believed to be subserved by neuronal path- To make full use of the visual abilities of the eyes, almost ways that pass from the optic tracts mainly into the supe- equally as important as interpretation of the visual signals rior colliculi and other portions of the older visual system. from the eyes is the cerebral control system for directing the eyes toward the object to be viewed. Fields of Vision; Perimetry The field of vision is the visual area seen by an eye at a given Muscular Control of Eye Movements. The eye move- instant. The area seen to the nasal side is called the nasal ments are controlled by three pairs of muscles, shown in field of vision, and the area seen to the lateral side is called Figure 52- 7: (1) the medial and lateral recti; (2) the su- the temporal field of vision. perior and inferior recti; and (3) the superior and inferior To diagnose blindness in specific portions of the retina, obliques. The medial and lateral recti contract to move the one charts the field of vision for each eye by a process called eyes from side to side. The superior and inferior recti con- perimetry. This charting is performed by
