Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


one charts the field of vision for each eye by a process called eyes from side to side. The superior and inferior recti con- perimetry. This charting is performed by having the subject look with one eye toward a central spot directly in front tract to move the eyes upward or downward. The oblique of the eye; the other eye is closed. A small dot of light or muscles function mainly to rotate the eyeballs to keep the a small object is then moved back and forth in all areas of visual fields in the upright position. the field of vision, and the subject indicates when the spot of light or object can and cannot be seen. The field of vision Neural Pathways for Control of Eye Movements. for the left eye is plotted as shown in Figure 52- 6. In all Figure 52- 7 also shows brain stem nuclei for the third, perimetry charts, a blind spot caused by lack of rods and fourth, and sixth cranial nerves and their connections cones in the retina over the optic disc is found about 15 with the peripheral nerves to the ocular muscles. Also degrees lateral to the central point of vision, as shown in shown are interconnections among the brain stem nuclei the figure. Abnormalities in the Fields of Vision. Occasionally, via the nerve tract called the medial longitudinal fascicu- lus. Each of the three sets of muscles to each eye is recip- blind spots are found in portions of the field of vision oth- rocally innervated so that one muscle of the pair relaxes er than the optic disc area. Such blind spots, called scoto- mata, are frequently caused by damage to the optic nerve while the other contracts. resulting from glaucoma (too much fluid pressure in the Figure 52- 8 illustrates cortical control of the oculo- eyeball), allergic reactions in the retina, or toxic condi- motor apparatus, showing spread of signals from visual tions such as lead poisoning or excessive use of tobacco. areas in the occipital cortex through occipitotectal and 657 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses occipitocollicular tracts to the pretectal and superior col- the oculomotor system, from the vestibular nuclei via the liculus areas of the brain stem. From both the pretectal medial longitudinal fasciculus. and the superior colliculus areas, the oculomotor con- FIXATION MOVEMENTS OF THE EYES trol signals
