Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


via the liculus areas of the brain stem. From both the pretectal medial longitudinal fasciculus. and the superior colliculus areas, the oculomotor con- FIXATION MOVEMENTS OF THE EYES trol signals pass to the brain stem nuclei of the oculomo- tor nerves. Strong signals are also transmitted from the Perhaps the most important movements of the eyes are body’s equilibrium control centers in the brain stem into those that cause the eyes to “fix” on a discrete portion of the field of vision. Fixation movements are controlled by two neuronal mechanisms. The first of these mecha- Superior Superior nisms, called the voluntary fixation mechanism, allows a rectus oblique person to move the eyes voluntarily to find the object on which he or she wants to fix the vision. The second is the involuntary fixation mechanism that holds the eyes firmly Lateral Medial on the object once it has been found. rectus rectus The voluntary fixation movements are controlled by a cortical field located bilaterally in the premotor corti- cal regions of the frontal lobes, as shown in Figure 52- 8. Bilateral dysfunction or destruction of these areas makes Nuclei it difficult for a person to “unlock” the eyes from one point N. III of fixation and move them to another point. It is usually necessary to blink the eyes or put a hand over the eyes for a short time, which then allows the eyes to be moved. N. IV Inferior Inferior Conversely, the involuntary fixation mechanism that rectus oblique causes the eyes to “lock” on the object of attention once Medial longitudinal fasciculus it is found is controlled by secondary visual areas in the occipital cortex, located mainly anterior to the primary N. VI visual cortex. When this fixation area is destroyed bilater- ally in an animal, the animal has difficulty keeping its eyes Figure 52- 7. Anterior view of the right eye showing extraocular directed toward a given fixation point or may become muscles of the eye and their innervation. N., Nerve. totally unable to do so. Voluntary fixation area Involuntary fixation area Visual association areas Primary visual cortex Occipitotectal and occipitocollicular tracts Frontotectal tract Pretectal nuclei Visceral nucleus III nerve Superior colliculus Oculomotor nucleus N. III Trochlear nucleus Abducens nucleus N. IV N. VI Vestibular nuclei Figure 52- 8. Neural pathways for control of conjugate movement of Medial longitudinal fasciculus the eyes. N., Nerve. 658 CHAPTER 52 The
