Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Abducens nucleus N. IV N. VI Vestibular nuclei Figure 52- 8. Neural pathways for control of conjugate movement of Medial longitudinal fasciculus the eyes. N., Nerve. 658 CHAPTER 52 The Eye: III. Central Neurophysiology of Vision Saccadic Movement of the Eyes—A Mechanism of Successive Fixation Points. When a visual scene is mov- ing continually before the eyes, such as when a person is riding in a car, the eyes fix on one highlight after another in the visual field, jumping from one to the next at a rate of two to three jumps per second. The jumps are called sac- cades, and the movements are called opticokinetic move- ments. The saccades occur so rapidly that no more than 10% of the total time is spent moving the eyes, with 90% Voluntary movement to of the time being allocated to the fixation sites. Also, the fixation site brain suppresses the visual image during saccades, so the person is not conscious of the movements from point to point. Figure 52-9 . Movements of a spot of light on the fovea, showing sudden “flicking” eye movements that move the spot back toward Saccadic Movements During Reading. During the the center of the fovea whenever it drifts to the foveal edge. The dashed lines represent slow drifting movements, and the solid lines process of reading, a person usually makes several sac- represent sudden flicking movements. (Modified from Whitteridge D: cadic movements of the eyes for each line. In this case, the Central control of the eye movements. In: Field J, Magoun HW, Hall visual scene is not moving past the eyes, but the eyes are VE [eds]: Handbook of Physiology, vol. 2, sec. 1. Washington, DC: trained to move by means of several successive saccades American Physiological Society, 1960.) across the visual scene to extract the important informa- tion. Similar saccades occur when a person observes a To summarize, posterior “involuntary” occipital corti- painting, except that the saccades occur in upward, side- cal eye fields automatically “lock” the eyes on a given spot ways, downward, and angulated directions one after an- of the visual field and thereby prevent movement of the other from one highlight of the painting to another, and image across the retinas. To unlock this visual fixation, so forth. voluntary signals must be transmitted from cortical “vol- untary” eye fields located in the frontal cortices. Fixation on Moving Objects—“Pursuit Movement.” The
