Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


retinas. To unlock this visual fixation, so forth. voluntary signals must be transmitted from cortical “vol- untary” eye fields located in the frontal cortices. Fixation on Moving Objects—“Pursuit Movement.” The eyes can also remain fixed on a moving object, which Mechanism of Involuntary Locking Fixation—Role is called pursuit movement. A highly developed cortical of the Superior Colliculi. The involuntary locking mechanism automatically detects the course of move- type of fixation discussed in the previous section re- ment of an object and then rapidly develops a similar sults from a negative feedback mechanism that pre- course of movement for the eyes. For example, if an ob- vents the object of attention from leaving the foveal ject is moving up and down in a wavelike form at a rate of portion of the retina. The eyes normally have three several times per second, the eyes at first may be unable to types of continuous but almost imperceptible move- fixate on it. However, after a second or so, the eyes begin ments: (1) a continuous tremor at a rate of 30 to 80 cy- to jump by means of saccades in approximately the same cles/sec caused by successive contractions of the motor wavelike pattern of movement as that of the object. Then, units in the ocular muscles; (2) a slow drift of the eye- after another few seconds, the eyes develop progressively balls in one direction or another; and (3) sudden flick- smoother movements and finally follow the wave move- ing movements that are controlled by the involuntary ment almost exactly. This represents a high degree of au- fixation mechanism. tomatic subconscious computational ability by the pursuit When a spot of light becomes fixed on the foveal system for controlling eye movements. region of the retina, the tremulous movements cause the spot to move back and forth at a rapid rate across the Superior Colliculi Are Mainly Responsible for Turn- cones, and the drifting movements cause the spot to drift ing the Eyes and Head Toward a Visual Disturbance. slowly across the cones. Each time the spot drifts as far Even after the visual cortex has been destroyed, a sudden as the edge of the fovea, a sudden reflex reaction occurs, visual disturbance in a lateral area of the visual field often producing a flicking movement that moves the spot away causes immediate turning of the eyes in that direction. from this edge
