Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in a lateral area of the visual field often producing a flicking movement that moves the spot away causes immediate turning of the eyes in that direction. from this edge back toward the center of the fovea. Thus, This turning does not occur if the superior colliculi have an automatic response moves the image back toward the also been destroyed. To support this function, the various central point of vision. points of the retina are represented topographically in the These drifting and flicking motions are demonstrated superior colliculi in the same way as in the primary visual in Figure 52- 9. The dashed lines show the slow drifting cortex, although with less accuracy. Even so, the principal across the fovea, and the solid lines show the flicks that direction of a flash of light in a peripheral retinal field is keep the image from leaving the foveal region. This invol- mapped by the colliculi, and secondary signals are trans- untary fixation capability is mostly lost when the superior mitted to the oculomotor nuclei to turn the eyes. To help colliculi are destroyed. in this directional movement of the eyes, the superior 659 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses colliculi also have topological maps of somatic sensations side of the central pathway. Therefore, some optic path- from the body and acoustic signals from the ears. ways from the two eyes are exactly in register for objects 2 The optic nerve fibers from the eyes to the colliculi, meters away; still another set of pathways is in register for which are responsible for these rapid turning movements, objects 25 meters away. Thus, the distance is determined are branches from the rapidly conducting M fibers, with by which set or sets of pathways are excited by nonregis- one branch going to the visual cortex and the other going ter or register. This phenomenon is called depth percep- to the superior colliculi. In addition to causing the eyes to tion, another name for stereopsis. turn toward a visual disturbance, signals are relayed from Strabismus—Lack of Fusion of the Eyes the superior colliculi through the medial longitudinal fas- ciculus to other levels of the brain stem to cause turning Strabismus, also called squint or cross- eye, means lack of of the whole head and even of the whole body toward fusion of the eyes in one or more of the
