Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


also called squint or cross- eye, means lack of of the whole head and even of the whole body toward fusion of the eyes in one or more of the visual coordinates: the direction of the disturbance. Other types of nonvi- horizontal, vertical, or rotational. The basic types of strabis- sual disturbances, such as strong sounds or even stroking mus are shown in Figure 52- 10: (1) horizontal strabismus; (2) torsional strabismus; and (3) vertical strabismus. Com- of the side of the body, cause similar turning of the eyes, binations of two or even all three of the different types of head, and body, but only if the superior colliculi are intact. strabismus often occur. Therefore, the superior colliculi play a global role in ori- Strabismus is often caused by abnormal “set” of the fu- enting the eyes, head, and body with respect to external sion mechanism of the visual system. That is, in a young disturbances, whether they are visual, auditory, or somatic. child’s early efforts to fixate the two eyes on the same ob- ject, one of the eyes fixates satisfactorily while the other “FUSION” OF THE VISUAL IMAGES FROM fails to do so, or they both fixate satisfactorily but never THE TWO EYES simultaneously. Soon the patterns of conjugate movements of the eyes become abnormally “set” in the neuronal control To make the visual perceptions more meaningful, the pathways themselves, so the eyes never fuse. visual images in the two eyes normally fuse with each Suppression of the Visual Image From a Repressed Eye. other on “corresponding points” of the two retinas. The In a few patients with strabismus, the eyes alternate in fix- visual cortex plays an important role in fusion. We previ- ing on the object of attention. In other patients, one eye ously discussed that corresponding points of the two reti- alone is used all the time, and the other eye becomes re- nas transmit visual signals to different neuronal layers of pressed and is never used for precise vision. The visual acu- the lateral geniculate body, and these signals, in turn, are ity of the repressed eye develops only slightly, sometimes relayed to parallel neurons in the visual cortex. Interactions remaining as 20/400 or less. If the dominant eye then be- occur between these cortical neurons to cause interference comes blinded, vision in the repressed eye can develop only excitation in specific neurons
