Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


or less. If the dominant eye then be- occur between these cortical neurons to cause interference comes blinded, vision in the repressed eye can develop only excitation in specific neurons when the two visual images to a slight extent in adults but far more in young children. are not “in register”—that is, are not precisely “fused.” This This demonstrates that visual acuity is highly dependent excitation presumably provides the signal that is transmit- on proper development of central nervous system synaptic connections from the eyes. In fact, even anatomically, the ted to the oculomotor apparatus to cause convergence or numbers of neuronal connections diminish in the visual divergence or rotation of the eyes so that fusion can be cortex areas that would normally receive signals from the re-e stablished. Once the corresponding points of the two repressed eye. retinas are in register, excitation of the specific “interfer- ence” neurons in the visual cortex disappears. AUTONOMIC CONTROL OF ACCOMMO- Neural Mechanism of Stereopsis for DATION AND PUPILLARY APERTURE Judging Distances of Visual Objects AUTONOMIC NERVES TO THE EYES Because the two eyes are more than 2 inches apart, the images on the two retinas are not exactly the same. That The eye is innervated by both parasympathetic and sym- is, the right eye sees a little more of the right- hand side of pathetic nerve fibers, as shown in Figure 52- 11. The the object, and the left eye sees a little more of the left- parasympathetic preganglionic fibers arise in the Edinger- hand side; the closer the object, the greater the disparity. Westphal nucleus—the visceral nucleus portion of the Therefore, even when the two eyes are fused with each third cranial nerve—and then pass in the third nerve to other, it is still impossible for all corresponding points in the two visual images to be exactly in register at the same time. Furthermore, the nearer the object is to the eyes, the less the degree of register. This degree of nonregister pro- vides the neural mechanism for stereopsis, an important mechanism for judging the distances of visual objects up to about 200 feet (61 meters). Horizontal Torsional Vertical The neuronal cellular mechanism for stereopsis is strabismus strabismus strabismus based on the fact that some of the fiber pathways from the Figure 52- 10. Basic types of strabismus. retinas to the visual cortex stray 1 to 2 degrees on each 660
