Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the fact that some of the fiber pathways from the Figure 52- 10. Basic types of strabismus. retinas to the visual cortex stray 1 to 2 degrees on each 660 CHAPTER 52 The Eye: III. Central Neurophysiology of Vision refractive power. How does a person adjust accommoda- tion to keep the eyes in focus all the time? Accommodation of the lens is regulated by a negative feedback mechanism that automatically adjusts the refrac- Edinger- tive power of the lens to achieve the highest degree of Pretectal Westphal Ciliary visual acuity. When the eyes have been focused on some far region nucleus ganglion object and must then suddenly focus on a near object, the N. III lens usually accommodates for best acuity of vision within less than 1 second. Although the precise control mecha- N. II nism that causes this rapid and accurate focusing of the eye is not fully understood, the following features are known. Pons First, when the eyes suddenly change distance of the N. V fixation point, the lens changes its strength in the proper direction to achieve a new state of focus within a fraction of a second. Second, different types of clues help change Carotid plexus the lens strength in the proper direction, as follows: 1. Chromatic aberration appears to be important. That is, red light rays focus slightly posteriorly to blue Superior cervical ganglion light rays because the lens bends blue rays more than red rays. The eyes appear to be able to detect Cervical which of these two types of rays is in better focus, sympathetic and this clue relays information to the accommoda- trunk tion mechanism with regard to whether to make the lens stronger or weaker. Upper thoracic segments of 2. When the eyes fixate on a near object, the eyes must spinal cord converge. The neural mechanisms for convergence Figure 52- 11. Autonomic innervation of the eye, showing also the cause a simultaneous signal to strengthen the lens of reflex arc of the light reflex. N., Nerve. the eye. 3. Because the fovea lies in a hollowed- out depression the ciliary ganglion, which lies immediately behind the that is slightly deeper than the remainder of the ret- eye. There, the preganglionic fibers synapse with post- ina, the clarity of focus in the depth of the fovea is ganglionic parasympathetic neurons, which in turn send different from the clarity of focus on
