Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fibers synapse with post- ina, the clarity of focus in the depth of the fovea is ganglionic parasympathetic neurons, which in turn send different from the clarity of focus on the edges. This fibers through ciliary nerves into the eyeball. These nerves difference may also give clues about which way the excite the following: (1) the ciliary muscle that controls strength of the lens needs to be changed. focusing of the eye lens; and (2) the sphincter of the iris 4. The degree of accommodation of the lens oscillates that constricts the pupil. slightly all the time at a frequency up to twice per The sympathetic innervation of the eye originates in second. The visual image becomes clearer when the the intermediolateral horn cells of the first thoracic seg- oscillation of the lens strength is changing in the ap- ment of the spinal cord. From there, sympathetic fibers propriate direction and becomes poorer when the enter the sympathetic chain and pass upward to the lens strength is changing in the wrong direction. This superior cervical ganglion, where they synapse with post- could give a rapid clue as to which way the strength of ganglionic neurons. Postganglionic sympathetic fibers the lens needs to change to provide appropriate focus. from these neurons then spread along the surfaces of the The brain cortical areas that control accommodation carotid artery and successively smaller arteries until they closely parallel those that control fixation movements of reach the eye. There, the sympathetic fibers innervate the the eyes. Analysis of the visual signals in Brodmann’s cor- radial fibers of the iris, which open the pupil, as well as tical areas 18 and 19 and transmission of motor signals to several extraocular muscles of the eye, discussed subse- the ciliary muscle occur through the pretectal area in the quently in relation to Horner’s syndrome. brain stem, then through the Edinger- Westphal nucleus, CONTROL OF ACCOMMODATION and finally via parasympathetic nerve fibers to the eyes. (FOCUSING THE EYES) CONTROL OF PUPILLARY DIAMETER The accommodation mechanism—that is, the mechanism Stimulation of the parasympathetic nerves also excites that focuses the lens system of the eye—is essential for a the pupillary sphincter muscle, thereby decreasing the high degree of visual acuity. Accommodation results from pupillary aperture; this process is called miosis. Con- contraction or relaxation of the eye ciliary muscle. Con- versely, stimulation of the sympathetic nerves excites the traction causes increased
