Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


results from pupillary aperture; this process is called miosis. Con- contraction or relaxation of the eye ciliary muscle. Con- versely, stimulation of the sympathetic nerves excites the traction causes increased refractive power of the lens, as radial fibers of the iris and causes pupillary dilation, called explained in Chapter 50, and relaxation causes decreased mydriasis. 661 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses Pupillary Light Reflex. When light is shone into the eyes, clinical condition called Horner syndrome. This syndrome the pupils constrict, a reaction called the pupillary light consists of the following effects: reflex. The neuronal pathway for this reflex is illustrated 1. Because of interruption of sympathetic nerve fibers to the pupillary dilator muscle, the pupil remains persis- by the upper two black arrows in Figure 52- 11. When tently constricted to a smaller diameter than the pupil light impinges on the retina, a few of the resulting impuls- of the opposite eye. es pass from the optic nerves to the pretectal nuclei. From 2. The superior eyelid droops because it is normally main- here, secondary impulses pass to the Edinger- Westphal tained in an open position during waking hours, partly nucleus and, finally, back through parasympathetic nerves by contraction of smooth muscle fibers embedded in to constrict the sphincter of the iris. Conversely, in dark- the superior eyelid and innervated by the sympathetics. ness, the reflex becomes inhibited, which results in dila- Therefore, destruction of the sympathetic nerves makes tion of the pupil. it impossible to open the superior eyelid as widely as The function of the light reflex is to help the eye normally. adapt extremely rapidly to changing light conditions, as 3. The blood vessels on the corresponding side of the face explained in Chapter 51. The limits of pupillary diameter and head become persistently dilated. 4. Sweating (which requires sympathetic nerve signals) are about 1.5 millimeters on the small side and 8 milli- cannot occur on the side of the face and head affected meters on the large side. Therefore, because light bright- by Horner syndrome. ness on the retina increases with the square of pupillary diameter, the range of light and dark adaptation that can be brought about by the pupillary reflex is about 30 to 1— Bibliography that is, up to as much as 30 times change in the amount of Baird- Gunning JJD, Lueck CJ: Central control
