Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Martinez- Conde S, Otero- Millan J, Macknik SL: The impact of micro- convergence of the two eyes, cause a mild degree of pupillary saccades on vision: towards a unified theory of saccadic function. constriction at the same time. This phenomenon is called the Nat Rev Neurosci 14:83, 2013. pupillary reaction to accommodation. A pupil that fails to re- Parker AJ: Binocular depth perception and the cerebral cortex. Nat spond to light but does respond to accommodation and is also Rev Neurosci 8:379, 2007. very small (an Argyll Robertson pupil) is an important diag- Stafford BK, Huberman AD: Signal integration in thalamus: labeled nostic sign of a central nervous system disease such as syphilis. lines go cross-e yed and blurry. Neuron 93:717, 2017. Horner’s Syndrome. The sympathetic nerves to the eye Varadarajan SG, Huberman AD: Assembly and repair of eye-t o- brain are occasionally interrupted. Interruption frequently oc- connections. Curr Opin Neurobiol 53:198, 2018. curs in the cervical sympathetic chain, which causes the 662 CHAPTER 5 3 The Sense of Hearing This chapter describes the mechanisms whereby the ear malleus moves, the incus moves with it. The opposite end receives sound waves, discriminates their frequencies, of the incus articulates with the stem of the stapes, and the and transmits auditory information into the central ner- faceplate of the stapes lies against the membranous laby- vous system, where its meaning is deciphered. rinth of the cochlea in the opening of the oval window. The tip end of the handle of the malleus is attached TYMPANIC MEMBRANE AND THE to the center of the tympanic membrane, and this point OSSICULAR SYSTEM of attachment is constantly pulled by the tensor tympani muscle, which keeps the tympanic membrane tensed. CONDUCTION OF SOUND FROM THE This tension allows sound vibrations on any portion of TYMPANIC MEMBRANE TO THE COCHLEA the tympanic membrane to be transmitted to the ossicles, which would not occur if the membrane were lax. Figure 53- 1 shows the tympanic membrane (commonly The ossicles of the middle ear are suspended by liga- called the eardrum) and the ossicles, which conduct sound ments in such a way that the combined malleus and incus from the tympanic membrane through the middle ear act as a single lever, having its fulcrum approximately at to the cochlea (the inner ear). Attached to the tympanic the border of the tympanic membrane. membrane is the handle of the malleus.
