Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


single lever, having its fulcrum approximately at to the cochlea (the inner ear). Attached to the tympanic the border of the tympanic membrane. membrane is the handle of the malleus. The malleus is The articulation of the incus with the stapes causes bound to the incus by minute ligaments, so whenever the the stapes to (1) push forward on the oval window and OUTER EAR MIDDLE EAR INNER EAR Malleus Stapes Scala tympani Incus Scala vestibuli Vestibular nerve Cochlear nerve Auditory canal External acoustic meatus Cochlea Tensor tympani Stapedius muscle muscle Tympanic Oval Round membrane window window Eustachian tube Figure 53- 1. The outer ear, tympanic membrane, and ossicular system of the middle ear and inner ear. 663 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses on the cochlear fluid on the other side of window every Another function of the tensor tympani and stapedius time the tympanic membrane moves inward; and (2) muscles is to decrease a person’s hearing sensitivity to his pull backward on the fluid every time the malleus moves or her own speech. This effect is activated by collateral outward. nerve signals transmitted to these muscles at the same time that the brain activates the voice mechanism. “Impedance Matching” by the Ossicular System. The amplitude of movement of the stapes faceplate with each TRANSMISSION OF SOUND THROUGH sound vibration is only three-fourths as much as the ampli- BONE tude of the handle of the malleus. Therefore, the ossicular lever system does not increase the movement distance of Because the inner ear, the cochlea, is embedded in a bony the stapes, as is commonly believed. Instead, the system ac- cavity in the temporal bone, called the bony labyrinth, vibra- tually reduces the distance but increases the force of move- tions of the entire skull can cause fluid vibrations in the ment about 1.3 times. In addition, the surface area of the cochlea. Therefore, under appropriate conditions, a tuning tympanic membrane is about 55 square millimeters, where- fork or an electronic vibrator placed on any bony protuber- as the surface area of the stapes averages 3.2 square millim- ance of the skull, but especially on the mastoid process near eters. This 17-f old difference times the 1.3-f old ratio of the the ear, causes the person to hear the sound. However, the lever system causes about 22 times as much total force to be energy
