Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the 1.3-f old ratio of the the ear, causes the person to hear the sound. However, the lever system causes about 22 times as much total force to be energy available even in loud sound in the air is not sufficient exerted on the fluid of the cochlea as is exerted by the sound to cause hearing via bone conduction unless a special electro- waves against the tympanic membrane. Because fluid has mechanical sound-a mplifying device is applied to the bone. far greater inertia than air does, increased amounts of force are necessary to cause vibration in the fluid. Therefore, the COCHLEA tympanic membrane and ossicular system provide imped- ance matching between the sound waves in air and the FUNCTIONAL ANATOMY OF THE sound vibrations in the fluid of the cochlea. The impedance COCHLEA matching is about 50% to 75% of perfect for sound frequen- cies between 300 and 3000 cycles/sec, which allows utiliza- The cochlea is a system of coiled tubes, shown in tion of most of the energy in the incoming sound waves. Figure 53- 1 and in cross section in Figure 53- 2. It con- In the absence of the ossicular system and tympanic sists of three tubes coiled side by side: (1) the scala ves- membrane, sound waves can still travel directly through tibuli; (2) the scala media; and (3) the scala tympani. The the air of the middle ear and enter the cochlea at the oval scala vestibuli and scala media are separated from each window. However, the sensitivity for hearing is then 15 to 20 other by Reissner’s membrane (also called the vestibular decibels less than for ossicular transmission—equivalent to membrane), shown in Figure 53- 2B; the scala tympani a decrease from a medium to a barely perceptible voice level. and scala media are separated from each other by the Attenuation of Sound by Contraction of the Tensor basilar membrane. On the surface of the basilar mem- Tympani and Stapedius Muscles. When loud sounds brane lies the organ of Corti, which contains a series of are transmitted through the ossicular system and from electromechanically sensitive cells, the hair cells. They are there into the central nervous system, a reflex occurs af- the receptive end organs that generate nerve impulses in ter a latent period of only 40 to 80 milliseconds to cause response to sound vibrations. contraction of the stapedius muscle and, to a
