Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


organs that generate nerve impulses in ter a latent period of only 40 to 80 milliseconds to cause response to sound vibrations. contraction of the stapedius muscle and, to a lesser extent, Figure 53- 3 diagrams the functional parts of the the tensor tympani muscle. The tensor tympani muscle uncoiled cochlea for conduction of sound vibrations. pulls the handle of the malleus inward while the stape- First, note that Reissner’s membrane is missing from this dius muscle pulls the stapes outward. These two forces figure. This membrane is so thin and so easily moved that oppose each other and thereby cause the entire ossicular it does not obstruct the passage of sound vibrations from system to develop increased rigidity, thus greatly reducing the scala vestibuli into the scala media. Therefore, as far as the ossicular conduction of low-f requency sound, mainly fluid conduction of sound is concerned, the scala vestibuli frequencies below 1000 cycles/sec. and scala media are considered to be a single chamber. As This attenuation reflex can reduce the intensity of discussed later, Reissner’s membrane maintains a special lower frequency sound transmission by 30 to 40 decibels, kind of fluid in the scala media that is required for normal which is about the same difference as that between a loud function of the sound- receptive hair cells. voice and a whisper. The function of this mechanism is Sound vibrations enter the scala vestibuli from the believed to be twofold—to protect the cochlea from dam- faceplate of the stapes at the oval window. The faceplate aging vibrations caused by excessively loud sound and to covers this window and is connected with the window’s mask low- frequency sounds in loud environments. Mask- edges by a loose annular ligament so that it can move ing usually removes a major share of the background inward and outward with the sound vibrations. Inward noise and allows a person to concentrate on sounds above movement causes the fluid to move forward in the scala 1000 cycles/sec, where most of the pertinent information vestibuli and scala media, and outward movement causes in voice communication is transmitted. the fluid to move backward. 664 Chapter 53 The Sense of Hearing Helicotrema distal ends, except that the distal ends are embedded in (connection between scala the loose basilar membrane. Because the fibers are stiff vestibuli and scala tympani) Scala vestibuli and free at one end, they can vibrate
