Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ends are embedded in (connection between scala the loose basilar membrane. Because the fibers are stiff vestibuli and scala tympani) Scala vestibuli and free at one end, they can vibrate like the reeds of a harmonica. Stria vascularis The lengths of the basilar fibers increase progressively, beginning at the oval window and going from the base of Scala the cochlea to the apex, increasing from a length of about media 0.04 millimeter near the oval and round windows to 0.5 Organ millimeter at the tip of the cochlea (the “helicotrema”), a of Corti 12- fold increase in length. Scala The diameters of the fibers, however, decrease from tympani the oval window to the helicotrema, so their overall stiff- ness decreases more than 100- fold. As a result, the stiff, Modiolus short fibers near the oval window of the cochlea vibrate Spiral best at a very high frequency, whereas the long, limber ganglion Cochlear nerve fibers near the tip of the cochlea vibrate best at a low frequency. A Thus, high- frequency resonance of the basilar mem- Reissner's Tectorial membrane brane occurs near the base, where the sound waves membrane enter the cochlea through the oval window. However, low- frequency resonance occurs near the helicotrema, Stria mainly because of the less stiff fibers but also because of vascularis Scala vestibuli Spiral increased “loading” with extra masses of fluid that must Scala limbus vibrate along the cochlear tubules. media Spiral prominence TRANSMISSION OF SOUND WAVES IN THE COCHLEA—“TRAVELING WAVE” Organ Scala of Corti tympani When the foot of the stapes moves inward against the oval window, the round window must bulge outward because Basilar the cochlea is bounded on all sides by bony walls. The ini- membrane Spiral ganglion tial effect of a sound wave entering at the oval window is to B cause the basilar membrane at the base of the cochlea to Figure 53- 2. The cochlea (A) and section through one of the turns bend in the direction of the round window. However, the of the cochlea (B). elastic tension that is built up in the basilar fibers as they bend toward the round window initiates a fluid wave that “travels” along the basilar membrane toward the helico- Oval Scala vestibuli trema. Figure 53- 4A shows movement of a high-f requency Stapes window and scala media wave down the basilar membrane, Figure 53- 4B shows a medium-f requency wave,
