Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Scala vestibuli trema. Figure 53- 4A shows movement of a high-f requency Stapes window and scala media wave down the basilar membrane, Figure 53- 4B shows a medium-f requency wave, and Figure 53- 4C shows a very low-f requency wave. Movement of the wave along the basi- lar membrane is comparable to the movement of a pressure wave along the arterial walls, discussed in Chapter 15; it is Round Scala Basilar Helicotrema also comparable to a wave that travels along the surface of window tympani membrane a pond. Figure 53- 3. Movement of fluid in the cochlea after forward thrust Vibration Patterns of the Basilar Membrane for of the stapes. Different Sound Frequencies. Note in Figure 53- 4 the different patterns of transmission for sound waves of dif- Basilar Membrane and Resonance in the Cochlea. ferent frequencies. Each wave is relatively weak at the The basilar membrane is a fibrous membrane that sepa- outset but becomes strong when it reaches the portion rates the scala media from the scala tympani. It contains of the basilar membrane that has a natural resonant fre- 20,000 to 30,000 basilar fibers that project from the bony quency equal to the respective sound frequency. At this center of the cochlea, the modiolus, toward the outer point, the basilar membrane can vibrate back and forth wall. These fibers are stiff, elastic, reedlike structures that with such ease that the energy in the wave is dissipated. are fixed at their basal ends in the central bony structure Consequently, the wave dies at this point and fails to of the cochlea (the modiolus) but are not fixed at their travel the remaining distance along the basilar membrane. 665 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses b a c A High frequency d B Medium frequency A Frequency (cycles/sec) 8000 4000 2000 1000 600 400 200 C Low frequency 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 Figure 53-4 . “Traveling waves” along the basilar membrane for B Distance from stapes (millimeters) high- (A), medium- (B), and low- frequency (C) sounds. Figure 53- 5. A, Amplitude pattern of vibration of the basilar mem- brane for a medium- frequency sound (a–d). B, Amplitude patterns for sounds of frequencies between 200 and 8000 cycles/sec, showing Thus, a high-f requency sound wave travels only a short the points of maximum amplitude on the basilar membrane for the distance
