Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of frequencies between 200 and 8000 cycles/sec, showing Thus, a high-f requency sound wave travels only a short the points of maximum amplitude on the basilar membrane for the distance along the basilar membrane before it reaches different frequencies. its resonant point and dies, a medium-f requency sound wave travels about halfway and then dies, and a very low- frequency sound wave travels the entire distance along whereby the scala tympani and scala vestibuli communi- the membrane. cate (Figure 53- 2). Another feature of the traveling wave is that it travels The principal method whereby sound frequencies are fast along the initial portion of the basilar membrane but discriminated from one another is based on the “place” of becomes progressively slower as it goes farther into the maximum stimulation of the nerve fibers from the organ cochlea. The cause of this difference is the high coefficient of Corti lying on the basilar membrane, as explained in of elasticity of the basilar fibers near the oval window and a the next section. progressively decreasing coefficient farther along the mem- FUNCTION OF THE ORGAN OF CORTI brane. This rapid initial transmission of the wave allows the high-f requency sounds to travel far enough into the cochlea The organ of Corti, shown in Figure 53- 2 and Figure to spread out and separate from one another on the basilar 53- 6, is the receptor organ that generates nerve impulses membrane. Without this rapid initial transmission, all the in response to vibration of the basilar membrane. Note high-f requency waves would be bunched together within that the organ of Corti lies on the surface of the basilar the first millimeter or so of the basilar membrane, and their fibers and basilar membrane. The actual sensory recep- frequencies could not be discriminated. tors in the organ of Corti are two specialized types of Vibration Amplitude Pattern of the Basilar nerve cells called hair cells—a single row of internal (or Membrane. The dashed curves of Figure 53- 5A show “inner”) hair cells, numbering about 3500 and measuring the position of a sound wave on the basilar membrane about 12 micrometers in diameter, and three or four rows when the stapes is (a) all the way inward, (b) has moved of external (or “outer”) hair cells, numbering about 12,000 back to the neutral point, (c) is all the way outward, and and having diameters of only about
