Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


(b) has moved of external (or “outer”) hair cells, numbering about 12,000 back to the neutral point, (c) is all the way outward, and and having diameters of only about 8 micrometers. The (d) has moved back again to the neutral point but is mov- bases and sides of the hair cells synapse with a network ing inward. The shaded area around these different waves of cochlear nerve endings. Between 90% and 95% of these shows the extent of vibration of the basilar membrane endings terminate on the inner hair cells, emphasizing during a complete vibratory cycle. This is the amplitude their special importance for detection of sound. pattern of vibration of the basilar membrane for this par- The nerve fibers stimulated by the hair cells lead to the ticular sound frequency. spiral ganglion of Corti, which lies in the modiolus (cen- Figure 53- 5B shows the amplitude patterns of vibra- ter) of the cochlea. The spiral ganglion neuronal cells send tion for different frequencies, demonstrating that the axons—a total of about 30,000—into the cochlear nerve maximum amplitude for sound at 8000 cycles/sec occurs and then into the central nervous system at the level of near the base of the cochlea, whereas that for frequencies the upper medulla. The relation of the organ of Corti to less than 200 cycles/sec is all the way at the tip of the basi- the spiral ganglion and to the cochlear nerve is shown in lar membrane near the helicotrema, the minute opening Figure 53- 2. 666 Chapter 53 The Sense of Hearing Tectorial membrane Tectorial membrane Stereocilia Reticular lamina Inner hair cells Outer hair cells Modiolus Hair cells A Rods of Corti Basilar fiber Basilar fiber Tip link protein Spiral ganglion K+ Cochlear nerve K+ channel Figure 53- 6. The organ of Corti, showing especially the hair cells and the tectorial membrane pressing against the projecting hairs. K+ Excitation of the Hair Cells. Note in Figure 53- 6 that K+ minute hairs, or stereocilia, project upward from the hair Stereocilia cells and either touch or are embedded in the surface gel coating of the tectorial membrane, which lies above the K+ stereocilia in the scala media. These hair cells are similar to the hair cells found in the macula and cristae ampul- laris of the vestibular apparatus, discussed in Chapter 56. Bending of the hairs in one direction depolarizes the hair cells, and
