Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


hair cells found in the macula and cristae ampul- laris of the vestibular apparatus, discussed in Chapter 56. Bending of the hairs in one direction depolarizes the hair cells, and bending in the opposite direction hyperpolar- izes them. This in turn excites the auditory nerve fibers K+ K+ K+ K+ synapsing with their bases. Figure 53- 7A shows the mechanism whereby vibra- Membrane tion of the basilar membrane excites the hair endings. The depolarization outer ends of the hair cells are fixed tightly in a rigid struc- ture composed of a flat plate, called the reticular lamina, supported by triangular rods of Corti, which are attached tightly to the basilar fibers. The basilar fibers, the rods of Corti, and the reticular lamina move as a rigid unit. Ca2+ Ca2+ Upward movement of the basilar fiber rocks the retic- ular lamina upward and inward toward the modiolus. Then, when the basilar membrane moves downward, the reticular lamina rocks downward and outward. The inward and outward motion causes the hairs on the hair cells to shear back and forth against the tectorial mem- Glutamate brane. Thus, the hair cells are excited whenever the basilar Afferent membrane vibrates. neuron Spiral Auditory Signals Are Transmitted Mainly by the ganglion Inner Hair Cells. Even though there are three to four times as many outer hair cells as inner hair cells, about 90% of the auditory nerve fibers are stimulated by the inner cells B rather than by the outer cells. Nonetheless, if the outer cells are damaged while the inner cells remain fully func- Figure 53- 7. A, Stimulation of the hair cells by to and fro movement tional, a large amount of hearing loss occurs. Therefore, it of the hairs projecting into the gel coating of the tectorial membrane. has been proposed that the outer hair cells in some way B, Transduction of mechanical energy into neural signals by the hair cells. When the stereocilia are bent in the direction of the longer control the sensitivity of the inner hair cells at different ones, K+ channels are opened, causing depolarization, which in turn sound pitches, a phenomenon called “tuning” of the re- opens voltage- gated Ca2+ channels. The influx of Ca2+ augments the ceptor system. In support of this concept, a large number depolarization and elicits release of the excitatory transmitter gluta- of retrograde nerve fibers pass from the brain stem to the mate,
