Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


system. In support of this concept, a large number depolarization and elicits release of the excitatory transmitter gluta- of retrograde nerve fibers pass from the brain stem to the mate, which depolarizes the sensory nerve. 667 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses vicinity of the outer hair cells. Stimulating these nerve fib- The importance of the endocochlear potential is that the ers can actually cause shortening of the outer hair cells tops of the hair cells project through the reticular lamina and and possibly also change their degree of stiffness. These are bathed by the endolymph of the scala media, whereas per- ilymph bathes the lower bodies of the hair cells. Furthermore, effects suggest a retrograde nervous mechanism for con- the hair cells have a negative intracellular potential of −70 trol of the ear’s sensitivity to different sound pitches, acti- millivolts with respect to the perilymph but −150 millivolts vated through the outer hair cells. with respect to the endolymph at their upper surfaces, where Hair Cell Receptor Potentials and Excitation of Audi- the hairs project through the reticular lamina and into the tory Nerve Fibers. The stereocilia (i.e., the “hairs” pro- endolymph. It is believed that this high electrical potential at the tips of the stereocilia sensitizes the cell an extra amount, truding from the ends of the hair cells) are stiff structures thereby increasing its ability to respond to the slightest sound. because each has a rigid protein framework. Each hair cell has about 100 stereocilia on its apical border. These ste- DETERMINATION OF SOUND reocilia become progressively longer on the side of the hair FREQUENCY—THE “PLACE” PRINCIPLE cell away from the modiolus. The tops of the shorter ste- reocilia are attached by thin filaments to the back sides of From earlier discussions in this chapter, it is apparent that their adjacent longer stereocilia. Therefore, whenever the low-f requency sounds cause maximal activation of the basilar cilia are bent in the direction of the longer ones, the tips of membrane near the apex of the cochlea, and high-f requency the smaller stereocilia are tugged outward from the surface sounds activate the basilar membrane near the base of the of the hair cell. This causes a mechanical transduction that cochlea. Intermediate-f requency sounds activate the mem- opens 200 to 300 cation-c onducting channels, allowing for brane at intermediate distances between the two extremes. the
