Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


causes a mechanical transduction that cochlea. Intermediate-f requency sounds activate the mem- opens 200 to 300 cation-c onducting channels, allowing for brane at intermediate distances between the two extremes. the rapid movement of positively charged potassium ions Furthermore, there is spatial organization of the nerve fibers from the surrounding scala media fluid into the stereocilia, in the cochlear pathway, all the way from the cochlea to the which causes depolarization of the hair cell membrane (see cerebral cortex. Recording of signals in the auditory tracts of Figure 53- 7B). The depolarization opens voltage- sensitive the brain stem and in the auditory receptive fields of the cere- calcium channels and causes influx of calcium ions, which bral cortex shows that specific brain neurons are activated augments the depolarization. Repolarization of the hair by specific sound frequencies. Therefore, the major method cell occurs mainly by exit of potassium ions through cal- used by the nervous system to detect different sound frequen- cium ion–sensitive potassium channels. cies is to determine the positions along the basilar membrane Thus, when the basilar fibers bend toward the scala that are stimulated the most, called the place principle for the vestibuli, the hair cells depolarize, and in the opposite determination of sound frequency. direction they hyperpolarize, thereby generating an alter- Referring again to Figure 53- 5, one can see that the nating hair cell receptor potential that, in turn, stimulates distal end of the basilar membrane at the helicotrema is the cochlear nerve endings that synapse with the bases stimulated by all sound frequencies below 200 cycles/sec. of the hair cells. It is believed that the rapidly acting neu- Therefore, it has been difficult to understand from the place rotransmitter glutamate is released by the hair cells at principle how one can differentiate between low sound fre- these synapses during depolarization. quencies in the range of 200 down to 20 cycles/sec. These low frequencies have been postulated to be discriminated Endocochlear Potential. To explain even more fully the mainly by the so-c alled volley or frequency principle. That electrical potentials generated by the hair cells, we need to is, low-f requency sounds, from 20 to 1500 to 2000 cycles/ explain another electrical phenomenon called the endo- sec, can cause volleys of nerve impulses synchronized at cochlear potential. The scala media is filled with a fluid called the same frequencies, and these volleys are transmitted by endolymph, in
