Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


can cause volleys of nerve impulses synchronized at cochlear potential. The scala media is filled with a fluid called the same frequencies, and these volleys are transmitted by endolymph, in contradistinction to the perilymph present in the cochlear nerve into the cochlear nuclei of the brain. It is the scala vestibuli and scala tympani. The scala vestibuli and further suggested that the cochlear nuclei can distinguish scala tympani communicate directly with the subarachnoid the different frequencies of the volleys. In fact, destruction space around the brain, so the perilymph is almost identical of the entire apical half of the cochlea, which destroys the to cerebrospinal fluid. Conversely, the endolymph that fills the scala media is an entirely different fluid secreted by the basilar membrane where all lower frequency sounds are stria vascularis, a highly vascular area on the outer wall of normally detected, does not totally eliminate discrimina- the scala media. Endolymph contains a high concentration tion of the lower frequency sounds. of potassium and a low concentration of sodium, which is DETERMINATION OF LOUDNESS exactly opposite to the contents of perilymph. An electrical potential of about +80 millivolts exists all Loudness is determined by the auditory system in at least the time between endolymph and perilymph, with posi- three ways. tivity inside the scala media and negativity outside. This is called the endocochlear potential, and it is generated by First, as the sound becomes louder, the amplitude continual secretion of positive potassium ions into the sca- of vibration of the basilar membrane and hair cells also la media by the stria vascularis. increases so that the hair cells excite the nerve endings at more rapid rates. 668 Chapter 53 The Sense of Hearing Second, as the amplitude of vibration increases, it Vibration Sound causes more and more of the hair cells on the fringes of 100 Pricking 80 (in middle ear) the resonating portion of the basilar membrane to become 60 stimulated, thus causing spatial summation of impulses— 40 Tactual that is, transmission through many nerve fibers rather threshold 20 than through only a few. 0 Third, the outer hair cells do not become stimulated Threshold –20 significantly until vibration of the basilar membrane of hearing –40 reaches high intensity, and stimulation of these cells pre- –60 sumably apprises the nervous system that the sound is Reference –80 pressure = - 73.8 loud. 1 2 5 1020 100 500
