Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


intensity, and stimulation of these cells pre- –60 sumably apprises the nervous system that the sound is Reference –80 pressure = - 73.8 loud. 1 2 5 1020 100 500 2000 10,000 Detection of Changes in Loudness—The Power Law. Frequency (cycles/sec) As pointed out in Chapter 47, a person interprets changes Figure 53- 8. Relation of the threshold of hearing and of somesthetic in intensity of sensory stimuli approximately in propor- perception (pricking and tactual threshold) to the sound energy level tion to an inverse power function of the actual intensity. at each sound frequency. In the case of sound, the interpreted sensation changes approximately in proportion to the cube root of the ac- sound pressure level, the sound range is 500 to 5000 cy- tual sound intensity. To express this concept in another cles/sec; only with intense sounds can the complete range way, the ear can discriminate differences in sound inten- of 20 to 20,000 cycles be achieved. In old age, this fre- sity from the softest whisper to the loudest possible noise, quency range is usually shortened to 50 to 8,000 cycles/ representing an approximately 1 trillion times increase sec or less, as discussed later in this chapter. in sound energy or 1 million times increase in amplitude of movement of the basilar membrane. Yet, the ear inter- CENTRAL AUDITORY MECHANISMS prets this much difference in sound level as approximately a 10,000- fold change. Thus, the scale of intensity is greatly AUDITORY NERVOUS PATHWAYS “compressed” by the sound perception mechanisms of the auditory system, which allows a person to interpret dif- Figure 53- 9 shows the major auditory pathways. Nerve ferences in sound intensities over a far wider range than fibers from the spiral ganglion of Corti enter the dorsal would be possible were it not for compression of the in- and ventral cochlear nuclei located in the upper part of the tensity scale. medulla. At this point, all the fibers synapse, and second- Decibel Unit. Because of the extreme changes in sound order neurons pass mainly to the opposite side of the intensities that the ear can detect and discriminate, sound brain stem to terminate in the superior olivary nucleus. A intensities are usually expressed in terms of the logarithm few second- order fibers also pass to the superior olivary of their actual intensities. A 10-f old increase in sound en- nucleus on the same side. ergy
