Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the logarithm few second- order fibers also pass to the superior olivary of their actual intensities. A 10-f old increase in sound en- nucleus on the same side. ergy is called 1 bel, and 0.1 bel is called 1 decibel. One From the superior olivary nucleus, the auditory path- decibel represents an actual increase in sound energy of way passes upward through the lateral lemniscus. Some 1.26 times. of the fibers terminate in the nucleus of the lateral lem- Another reason for using the decibel system to express niscus, but many fibers bypass this nucleus and travel on changes in loudness is that in the usual sound intensity to the inferior colliculus, where all or almost all the audi- range for communication, the ears can barely distinguish tory fibers synapse. From there, the pathway passes to the an approximately 1- decibel change in sound intensity. medial geniculate nucleus, where all the fibers do synapse. Finally, the pathway proceeds via auditory radiation to Threshold for Hearing Sound at Different the auditory cortex, located mainly in the superior gyrus Frequencies. Figure 53- 8 shows the pressure thresholds of the temporal lobe. at which sounds of different frequencies can barely be Several important points should be noted. First, signals heard by the ear. This figure demonstrates that a 3,000 cy- from both ears are transmitted through the pathways of cles/sec sound can be heard even when its intensity is as both sides of the brain, with a preponderance of transmis- low as 70 decibels below 1 dyne/cm2 sound pressure level, sion in the contralateral pathway. In at least three places which is one ten-m illionth microwatt per square centim- in the brain stem, crossing over occurs between the two eter. Conversely, a 100 cycles/sec sound can be detected pathways: (1) in the trapezoid body; (2) in the commissure only if its intensity is 10,000 times as great as this. between the two nuclei of the lateral lemnisci; and (3) in Frequency Range of Hearing. The frequencies of sound the commissure connecting the two inferior colliculi. that a young person can hear are between 20 and 20,000 Second, many collateral fibers from the auditory cycles/sec. However, referring again to Figure 53- 8, we tracts pass directly into the reticular activating system of see that the sound range depends to a great extent on the brain stem. This system projects diffusely upward in loudness.
