Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tracts pass directly into the reticular activating system of see that the sound range depends to a great extent on the brain stem. This system projects diffusely upward in loudness. If the loudness is 60 decibels below 1 dyne/cm2 the brain stem and downward into the spinal cord and 669 )slebiced( erusserP )2mc/enyd 1 = lebiced 0( UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses Firing Rates at Different Levels of the Auditory Pathways. Single nerve fibers entering the cochlear nuclei from the auditory nerve can fire at rates up to at least 1000/ sec, with the rate being determined mainly by the loud- ness of the sound. At sound frequencies up to 2000 to 4000 cycles/sec, the auditory nerve impulses are often synchro- nized with the sound waves, but they do not necessarily occur with every wave. In the auditory tracts of the brain stem, the firing is usually no longer synchronized with the sound frequency, Primary auditory except at sound frequencies below 200 cycles/sec. Above cortex the level of the inferior colliculi, even this synchronization Midbrain is mainly lost. These findings demonstrate that the sound Medial geniculate signals are not transmitted unchanged directly from the ear nucleus to the higher levels of the brain; instead, information from (thalamus) the sound signals begins to be dissected from the impulse traffic at levels as low as the cochlear nuclei. We will have more to say about this subject later, especially in relation to Inferior perception of direction from which sound comes. Midbrain colliculus FUNCTION OF THE CEREBRAL CORTEX IN HEARING The projection area of auditory signals to the cerebral cor- tex is shown in Figure 53- 10, which demonstrates that Nucleus of the auditory cortex lies principally on the supratempo- Pons the lateral ral plane of the superior temporal gyrus but also extends lemniscus onto the lateral side of the temporal lobe, over much of the insular cortex, and even onto the lateral portion of the parietal operculum. Two separate subdivisions are shown in Figure 53- Pons 10—the primary auditory cortex and the auditory asso- ciation cortex (also called the secondary auditory cortex). Superior The primary auditory cortex is directly excited by projec- olivary Dorsal nucleus tions from the medial geniculate body, whereas the audi- acoustic stria tory association areas are excited secondarily by impulses Intermediate acoustic site from the primary auditory cortex, as well as by
