Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


from the medial geniculate body, whereas the audi- acoustic stria tory association areas are excited secondarily by impulses Intermediate acoustic site from the primary auditory cortex, as well as by some pro- Medulla jections from thalamic association areas adjacent to the Cochlear nuclei medial geniculate body. Sound Frequency Perception in the Primary N. VIlI Trapezoid Auditory Cortex. At least six tonotopic maps have been body described in the primary auditory cortex and auditory association areas. In each of these maps, high-f requency sounds excite neurons at one end of the map, whereas Figure 53- 9. Auditory nervous pathways. N., Nerve. low- frequency sounds excite neurons at the opposite end. In most maps, the low-f requency sounds are located ante- activates the entire nervous system in response to loud riorly, as shown in Figure 53- 10, and the high- frequency sounds. Other collaterals go to the vermis of the cerebel- sounds are located posteriorly. This setup is not true for lum, which is also activated instantaneously in the event all the maps. of a sudden noise. Why does the auditory cortex have so many different Third, a high degree of spatial orientation is maintained tonotopic maps? The answer, presumably, is that each of in the fiber tracts from the cochlea all the way to the cor- the separate areas dissects out some specific feature of tex. In fact, there are three spatial patterns for termination the sounds. For example, one of the large maps in the pri- of the different sound frequencies in the cochlear nuclei, mary auditory cortex almost certainly discriminates the two patterns in the inferior colliculi, one precise pattern sound frequencies and gives the person the psychic sen- for discrete sound frequencies in the auditory cortex, and sation of sound pitches. Another map is probably used to at least five other less precise patterns in the auditory cor- detect the direction from which the sound comes. Other tex and auditory association areas. auditory cortex areas detect special qualities, such as the 670 Chapter 53 The Sense of Hearing Low frequency High frequency Indeed, the parietal portion of the auditory association cortex partly overlaps somatosensory area II, which could provide an opportunity for the association of auditory information with somatosensory information. Discrimination of Sound “Patterns” by the Auditory Cortex. Complete bilateral removal of the auditory cortex does not prevent a cat or monkey from detecting sounds or reacting in
