Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


somatosensory information. Discrimination of Sound “Patterns” by the Auditory Cortex. Complete bilateral removal of the auditory cortex does not prevent a cat or monkey from detecting sounds or reacting in a crude manner to sounds. However, it does greatly reduce or sometimes even abolish the animal’s ability to discriminate different sound pitches and espe- cially patterns of sound. For example, an animal that has Association Primary been trained to recognize a combination or sequence of tones, one following the other in a particular pattern, los- es this ability when the auditory cortex is destroyed; fur- thermore, the animal cannot relearn this type of response. Therefore, the auditory cortex is especially important in the discrimination of tonal and sequential sound patterns. Destruction of both primary auditory cortices in the Association human being greatly reduces one’s sensitivity for hear- Primary ing. Destruction of one side only slightly reduces hearing in the opposite ear; it does not cause deafness in the ear because of many crossover connections from side to side in the auditory neural pathway. However, it does affect one’s ability to localize the source of a sound because comparative signals in both cortices are required for sound localization. Figure 53- 10. Auditory cortex. Lesions that affect the auditory association areas but not the primary auditory cortex do not decrease a per- sudden onset of sounds, or perhaps special modulations, son’s ability to hear and differentiate sound tones or even such as noise versus pure frequency sounds. to interpret at least simple patterns of sound. However, The frequency range to which each individual neuron the person is often unable to interpret the meaning of the in the auditory cortex responds is much narrower than sound heard. For example, lesions in the posterior portion that in the cochlear and brain stem relay nuclei. Referring of the superior temporal gyrus, which is called Wernicke’s to Figure 53- 5B, note that the basilar membrane near the area and is part of the auditory association cortex, often base of the cochlea is stimulated by sounds of all frequen- make it impossible for a person to interpret the meanings cies and, in the cochlear nuclei, this same breadth of sound of words even though he or she hears them perfectly well representation is found. Yet, by the time the excitation and can even repeat them. These functions of the auditory has reached the cerebral cortex, most sound-
