Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


hears them perfectly well representation is found. Yet, by the time the excitation and can even repeat them. These functions of the auditory has reached the cerebral cortex, most sound- responsive association areas and their relation to the overall intellec- neurons respond only to a narrow range of frequencies tual functions of the brain are discussed in Chapter 58. rather than to a broad range. Therefore, somewhere along the pathway, processing mechanisms “sharpen” the fre- DETERMINATION OF THE DIRECTION quency response. This sharpening effect is believed to be FROM WHICH SOUND COMES caused mainly by lateral inhibition, discussed in Chapter 47 in relation to mechanisms for transmitting informa- A person determines the horizontal direction from which tion in nerves. That is, stimulation of the cochlea at one sound comes by two principal means: (1) the time lag frequency inhibits sound frequencies on both sides of this between the entry of sound into one ear and its entry into primary frequency; this inhibition is caused by collateral the opposite ear; and (2) the difference between the inten- fibers angling off the primary signal pathway and exert- sities of the sounds in the two ears. ing inhibitory influences on adjacent pathways. This same The first mechanism functions best at frequencies effect is important in sharpening patterns of somesthetic below 3000 cycles/sec, and the second mechanism oper- images, visual images, and other types of sensations. ates best at higher frequencies because the head is a Many of the neurons in the auditory cortex, especially greater sound barrier at these frequencies. The time lag in the auditory association cortex, do not respond only mechanism discriminates direction much more exactly to specific sound frequencies in the ear. It is believed than the intensity mechanism because it does not depend that these neurons “associate” different sound frequen- on extraneous factors but only on the exact interval of cies with one another or associate sound information time between two acoustical signals. If a person is look- with information from other sensory areas of the cortex. ing straight toward the source of the sound, the sound 671 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses reaches both ears at exactly the same instant, whereas if This mechanism for detection of sound direction indi- the right ear is closer to the sound than the left ear is, the cates again how specific information in sensory signals
