Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


This mechanism for detection of sound direction indi- the right ear is closer to the sound than the left ear is, the cates again how specific information in sensory signals is sound signals from the right ear enter the brain ahead of dissected out as the signals pass through different levels of those from the left ear. neuronal activity. In this case, the “quality” of sound direc- These two mechanisms cannot tell whether the sound tion is separated from the “quality” of sound tones at the is emanating from in front of or behind the person or from level of the superior olivary nuclei. above or below. This discrimination is achieved mainly by Centrifugal Signals From the Central Nervous the pinnae (the visible outer part), which act as funnels System to Lower Auditory Centers to direct the sound into the two ears. The shape of the Retrograde pathways have been demonstrated at each level pinna changes the quality of the sound entering the ear, of the auditory nervous system from the brain cortex to the depending on the direction from which the sound comes. cochlea in the ear. The final pathway is mainly from the su- It changes the quality by emphasizing specific sound fre- perior olivary nucleus to the sound-r eceptor hair cells in quencies from the different directions. the organ of Corti. Neural Mechanisms for Detecting Sound Direction. These retrograde fibers are inhibitory. Indeed, direct stimulation of discrete points in the olivary nucleus has Destruction of the auditory cortex on both sides of the brain been shown to inhibit specific areas of the organ of Corti, causes loss of almost all ability to detect the direction from reducing their sound sensitivities by 15 to 20 decibels. One which sound comes. Yet, the neural analyses for this detec- can readily understand how this mechanism could allow tion process begin in the superior olivary nuclei in the brain someone to direct their attention to sounds of particular stem, even though the neural pathways all the way from qualities while rejecting sounds of other qualities. This these nuclei to the cortex are required for interpretation of characteristic is readily demonstrated when one listens to the signals. The mechanism is believed to be the following. a single instrument in a symphony orchestra. The superior olivary nucleus is divided into two sec- Types of Deafness tions: (1) the medial superior olivary nucleus; and
