Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


be the following. a single instrument in a symphony orchestra. The superior olivary nucleus is divided into two sec- Types of Deafness tions: (1) the medial superior olivary nucleus; and (2) the lateral superior olivary nucleus. The lateral nucleus is con- Deafness is usually divided into two types: (1) that caused by cerned with detecting the direction from which the sound impairment of the cochlea, the auditory nerve, or the central nervous system circuits from the ear, which is usually classi- is coming, presumably by simply comparing the difference fied as “nerve deafness,” and (2) that caused by impairment in intensities of the sound reaching the two ears and send- of the physical structures of the ear that conduct sound itself ing an appropriate signal to the auditory cortex to esti- to the cochlea, which is usually called “conduction deafness.” mate the direction. If either the cochlea or the auditory nerve is destroyed, The medial superior olivary nucleus, however, has a the person becomes permanently deaf. However, if the specific mechanism for detecting the time lag between cochlea and nerve are still intact but the tympanum- acoustical signals entering the two ears. This nucleus con- ossicular system has been destroyed or ankylosed (“frozen” tains large numbers of neurons that have two major den- in place by fibrosis or calcification), sound waves can still be drites, one projecting to the right and the other to the left. conducted into the cochlea by means of bone conduction The acoustical signal from the right ear impinges on the from a sound generator applied to the skull over the ear. right dendrite, and the signal from the left ear impinges Audiometer. To determine the nature of hearing dis- on the left dendrite. The intensity of excitation of each abilities, an audiometer is used. This instrument is an earphone connected to an electronic oscillator capable of neuron is highly sensitive to a specific time lag between emitting pure tones ranging from low frequencies to high the two acoustical signals from the two ears. The neurons frequencies, and it is calibrated so that zero- intensity- level near one border of the nucleus respond maximally to a sound at each frequency is the loudness that can barely be short time lag, whereas those near the opposite border heard by the normal ear. A calibrated volume control can respond to a long time lag; those in between respond
