Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


be short time lag, whereas those near the opposite border heard by the normal ear. A calibrated volume control can respond to a long time lag; those in between respond to increase the loudness above the zero level. If the loudness intermediate time lags. must be increased to 30 decibels above normal before it Thus, a spatial pattern of neuronal stimulation develops can be heard, the person is said to have a hearing loss of 30 in the medial superior olivary nucleus, with sound from decibels at that particular frequency. directly in front of the head stimulating one set of olivary In performing a hearing test using an audiometer, one neurons maximally and sounds from different side angles tests about 8 to 10 frequencies covering the auditory spec- stimulating other sets of neurons on opposite sides. This trum, and the hearing loss is determined for each of these frequencies. Then the so- called audiogram is plotted, as spatial orientation of signals is then transmitted to the shown in Figure 53- 11 and 53- 12, depicting hearing loss auditory cortex, where sound direction is determined by at each of the frequencies in the auditory spectrum. The au- the locus of the maximally stimulated neurons. All these diometer, in addition to being equipped with an earphone signals for determining sound direction are believed to for testing air conduction by the ear, is equipped with a be transmitted through a different pathway and excite a mechanical vibrator for testing bone conduction from the different locus in the cerebral cortex from the transmis- mastoid process of the skull into the cochlea. sion pathway and termination locus for tonal patterns of Audiogram in Nerve Deafness. In nerve deafness, sound. which includes damage to the cochlea, the auditory nerve, 672 Chapter 53 The Sense of Hearing −10 is essentially normal, but conduction through the ossicular Normal system is greatly depressed at all frequencies, but more so 10 X X X at low frequencies. In some cases of conduction deafness, 20 * * * *X *X the faceplate of the stapes becomes “ankylosed” by bone X 30 * overgrowth to the edges of the oval window. Here, the per- 40 X son becomes totally deaf for ossicular conduction but can 50 regain almost normal hearing by the surgical removal of the stapes and its replacement with a minute Teflon or metal 60 prosthesis that transmits the sound
