Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


UNIT X CHAPTER 5 4 The Chemical Senses—Taste and Smell The senses of taste and smell allow us to separate undesir- Salty Taste. The salty taste is elicited by ionized salts, able or even lethal foods from those that are pleasant to mainly by the sodium ion concentration. The quality of eat and nutritious. They also elicit physiological responses the taste varies somewhat from one salt to another be- involved in the digestion and utilization of foods. The cause some salts elicit other taste sensations in addition sense of smell allows animals to recognize the proximity to saltiness. The cations of the salts, especially sodium of other animals or even individual animals. Finally, both cations, are mainly responsible for the salty taste, but the senses are strongly tied to primitive emotional and behav- anions also contribute to a lesser extent. ioral functions of our nervous systems. In this chapter, Sweet Taste. The sweet taste is not caused by any single we discuss how taste and smell stimuli are detected and class of chemicals. Some of the types of chemicals that how they are encoded in neural signals transmitted to the cause this taste include sugars, glycols, alcohols, alde- brain. hydes, ketones, amides, esters, some amino acids, some small proteins, sulfonic acids, halogenated acids, and in- SENSE OF TASTE organic salts of lead and beryllium. Note specifically that most of the substances that cause a sweet taste are organic Taste is mainly a function of the taste buds in the mouth, chemicals. It is especially interesting that slight changes but it is common experience that one’s sense of smell in the chemical structure, such as the addition of a simple also contributes strongly to taste perception. In addition, radical, can often change the substance from sweet to bit- the texture of food, as detected by tactual senses of the ter. mouth, and the presence of substances in the food that stimulate pain endings, such as pepper, greatly alter the Bitter Taste. The bitter taste, like the sweet taste, is not taste experience. The importance of taste lies in the fact caused by any single type of chemical agent. Here again, that it allows a person to select food in accord with desires the substances that give the bitter taste are almost entirely and often in accord with the body tissues’ metabolic need organic substances. Two particular classes of substances for specific
