Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


desires the substances that give the bitter taste are almost entirely and often in accord with the body tissues’ metabolic need organic substances. Two particular classes of substances for specific substances. are especially likely to cause bitter taste sensations: (1) PRIMARY TASTE SENSATIONS long- chain organic substances that contain nitrogen; and (2) alkaloids. The alkaloids include many of the drugs The identities of the many specific chemicals that excite used in medicines, such as quinine, caffeine, strychnine, different taste receptors are not all known. For practi- and nicotine. cal analysis, the primary sensations of taste have been Some substances that initially taste sweet have a bitter grouped into five general categories—sour, salty, sweet, aftertaste. This characteristic is true of saccharin, which bitter, and “umami.” makes this substance objectionable to some people. High A person can perceive hundreds of different tastes. concentrations of salts may also result in a bitter taste. They are all thought to be combinations of the elemen- The bitter taste, when it occurs in high intensity, usu- tary taste sensations, just as all the colors we can see are ally causes the person or animal to reject the food. This combinations of the three primary colors, as described in reaction is undoubtedly an important function of the bit- Chapter 51. ter taste sensation because many deadly toxins found in Sour Taste. The sour taste is caused by acids—that is, poisonous plants are alkaloids, and virtually all these alka- loids cause an intensely bitter taste, usually followed by by the hydrogen ion concentration—and the intensity rejection of the food. of this taste sensation is approximately proportional to the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration (i.e., the Umami Taste. Umami, a Japanese word meaning “deli- more acidic the food, the stronger the sour sensation be- cious,” designates a pleasant taste sensation that is qualita- comes). tively different from sour, salty, sweet, or bitter. Umami is 675 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses the dominant taste of food containing l- glutamate, such taste cells in each taste bud. The taste cells are continually as meat extracts and aging cheese. The pleasurable sensa- being replaced by mitotic division of surrounding epithe- tion of umami taste is thought to be important for nutri- lial cells, so some taste cells are young cells. Others are tion by promoting ingestion of proteins. mature cells that lie toward the center
