Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


thought to be important for nutri- lial cells, so some taste cells are young cells. Others are tion by promoting ingestion of proteins. mature cells that lie toward the center of the bud; these cells soon break up and dissolve. The average life span of THRESHOLD FOR TASTE each taste cell is estimated to be about 10 days, although there is considerable variation, with some taste cells being The molar threshold for stimulation of the sour taste by eliminated in only 2 days while others may survive for hydrochloric acid averages 0.0009 M, for stimulation of over 3 weeks. the salty taste by sodium chloride, 0.01 M, for the sweet The outer tips of the taste cells are arranged around a taste by sucrose, 0.01 M, and for the bitter taste by qui- minute taste pore, shown in Figure 54- 1B. From the tip of nine, 0.000008 M. Note especially that the bitter taste each taste cell, several microvilli, or taste hairs, protrude sense is much more sensitive than all the others, which outward into the taste pore to approach the cavity of the provides an important protective function against many mouth. These microvilli provide the receptor surface for dangerous toxins in food. taste. Table 54- 1 lists the relative taste indices (the reciprocals Interwoven around the bodies of the taste cells is a of the taste thresholds) of different substances. In this table, branching terminal network of taste nerve fibers that are the intensities of four of the primary sensations of taste stimulated by the taste receptor cells. Some of these fibers are referred, respectively, to the intensities of the taste of invaginate into folds of the taste cell membranes. Many hydrochloric acid, quinine, sucrose, and sodium chloride, vesicles form beneath the cell membrane near the fibers. each of which is arbitrarily chosen to have a taste index of 1. These vesicles are believed to contain a neurotransmit- Taste Blindness. Some people are taste blind for certain ter substance that is released through the cell membrane substances, especially for different types of thiourea com- to excite the nerve fiber endings in response to taste pounds. A substance used frequently by psychologists for stimulation. demonstrating taste blindness is phenylthiocarbamide, Location of the Taste Buds. The taste buds are found for which about 15% to 30% of all people exhibit taste on three types of papillae of the tongue, as follows
