Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


on the epiglottis, and even in the proximal esophagus. Mechanism of Stimulation of Taste Buds Adults have 3000 to 10,000 taste buds, and children Receptor Potential. The membrane of the taste cell, like have a few more. Beyond the age of 45 years, many taste that of most other sensory receptor cells, is negatively buds degenerate, causing taste sensitivity to decrease in charged on the inside with respect to the outside. Appli- old age. cation of a taste substance to the taste hairs causes par- Specificity of Taste Buds for a Primary Taste S timulus. tial loss of this negative potential—that is, the taste cell Microelectrode studies from single taste buds show that becomes depolarized. In most cases, the decrease in po- each taste bud usually responds mostly to one of the five tential, within a wide range, is approximately proportional primary taste stimuli when the taste substance is in low to the logarithm of concentration of the stimulating sub- concentration. However, at high concentration, most buds stance. This change in electrical potential in the taste cell can be excited by two or more of the primary taste stimu- is called the receptor potential for taste. li, as well as by a few other taste stimuli that do not fit into The mechanism whereby most stimulating substances the “primary” categories. react with the taste villi to initiate the receptor potential is by binding of the taste chemical to a protein receptor molecule that lies on the outer surface of the taste recep- Chorda tympani (VII) tor cell, near to or protruding through a villus membrane. This action, in turn, opens ion channels, which allows Glossopharyngeal n. (IX) positively charged sodium ions or hydrogen ions to enter and depolarize the normal negativity of the cell. Then, the Epiglottis taste chemical is gradually washed away from the taste Root of tongue villus by the saliva, which removes the stimulus. Foliate papilla The type of receptor protein in each taste villus deter- mines the type of taste that will be perceived. For sodium ions and hydrogen ions, which elicit salty and sour taste sensations, respectively, the receptor proteins open spe- cific ion channels, likely the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC), in the apical membranes of the taste cells, thereby IX activating the receptors. However, for the sweet and bit- Circumvallate papilla ter taste sensations, the portions of the G- protein coupled receptors that protrude
