Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the taste cells, thereby IX activating the receptors. However, for the sweet and bit- Circumvallate papilla ter taste sensations, the portions of the G- protein coupled receptors that protrude through the apical membranes Taste bud activate second- messenger transmitter substances inside the taste cells; these second messengers cause intracellu- VII Serous gland lar chemical changes that elicit the taste signals. Sweet- tasting compounds are detected by a combi- Fungiform papilla nation of two closely related G- protein- coupled taste receptors, T1R2 and T1R3. The receptors responsible for umami taste is believed to be a complex of T1R1 and A T1R3 proteins. Thus, T1R3 appears to function as a co- receptor for sweet and umami tastes. Taste hairs (microvilli) Bitter taste is sensed by another family (T2R) of approximately 30 different G- protein coupled receptors. Taste pore Individual bitter- sensing taste receptor cells express mul- tiple T2Rs, each of which recognizes a unique set of bitter Epithelial cells compounds. This pattern of receptor expression permits detection of a variety of bitter compounds through a sin- Taste cell gle type of taste receptor cell. Sour taste, associated with acidic food or drink, is believed to be sensed by ion channels that are opened by hydrogen ions although the precise mechanisms are Basal cell not fully understood. Recent studies suggest that an acid- Sensory sensitive potassium channel (KIR2.1) and a hydrogen afferent ion–selective ion channel (otopetrin 1) may mediate acid B nerve fiber responses in taste receptor cells. Subepithelial connective tissue Generation of Nerve Impulses by the Taste Bud. On Figure 54- 1. (A) Distribution of taste buds in papillae of the tongue and neuronal pathways for transmission of taste signals. (B) Structure first application of the taste stimulus, the rate of discharge of a taste bud. n., Nerve. of the nerve fibers from taste buds rises to a peak in a 677 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses small fraction of a second but then adapts within the next the thalamus, third- order neurons are transmitted to the few seconds back to a lower steady level as long as the lower tip of the postcentral gyrus in the parietal cerebral taste stimulus remains. Thus, a strong immediate signal is cortex, where it curls deep into the sylvian fissure, and into transmitted by the taste nerve, and a weaker continuous the adjacent opercular insular area. This area
