Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


immediate signal is cortex, where it curls deep into the sylvian fissure, and into transmitted by the taste nerve, and a weaker continuous the adjacent opercular insular area. This area lies slightly signal is transmitted as long as the taste bud is exposed to lateral, ventral, and rostral to the area for tongue tactile the taste stimulus. signals in cerebral somatic area I. From this description of the taste pathways, it is evident that they closely parallel TRANSMISSION OF TASTE SIGNALS INTO the somatosensory pathways from the tongue. THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Taste Reflexes Are Integrated in the Brain Stem. From Figures 54- 1 and 54- 2 show the neuronal pathways for the tractus solitarius, many taste signals are transmitted transmission of taste signals from the tongue and pharyn- within the brain stem itself directly into the superior and geal region into the central nervous system. Taste impulses inferior salivatory nuclei. These areas transmit signals to from the anterior two-thirds of the tongue pass first into the submandibular, sublingual, and parotid glands to help the lingual nerve, then through the chorda tympani into control the secretion of saliva during the ingestion and the facial nerve, and finally into the tractus solitarius in digestion of food. the brain stem. Taste sensations from the circumvallate Rapid Adaptation of Taste. Everyone is familiar with papillae on the back of the tongue and from other pos- the fact that taste sensations adapt rapidly, often almost terior regions of the mouth and throat are transmitted completely, within a minute or so of continuous stimula- through the glossopharyngeal nerve also into the tractus tion. Yet, from electrophysiological studies of taste nerve solitarius, but at a slightly more posterior level. Finally, a fibers, it is clear that adaptation of the taste buds usually few taste signals are transmitted into the tractus solitarius accounts for no more than about half of this rapid taste from the base of the tongue and other parts of the pharyn- adaptation. Therefore, the final extreme degree of adapta- geal region by way of the vagus nerve. tion that occurs in the sensation of taste almost certainly All taste fibers synapse in the posterior brain stem occurs in the central nervous system, although the mech- in the nuclei of the tractus solitarius. These nuclei send anisms are not known. This mechanism of adaptation is second- order neurons to a small area of the
