Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the mech- in the nuclei of the tractus solitarius. These nuclei send anisms are not known. This mechanism of adaptation is second- order neurons to a small area of the ventral pos- different from that of many other sensory systems, which terior medial nucleus of the thalamus, located slightly adapt mainly at the receptors. medial to the thalamic terminations of the facial regions of the dorsal column–medial lemniscal system. From TASTE PREFERENCE AND CONTROL OF THE DIET Gustatory cortex (anterior insula- Taste preference simply means that an animal will choose frontal operculum) certain types of food in preference to others, and the animal automatically uses this preference to help con- trol what it eats. Furthermore, its taste preferences often change in accord with the body’s need for certain specific substances. The following experiments demonstrate this abil- ity of animals to choose food in accord with the needs of their bodies. First, adrenalectomized, salt- depleted Ventral posterior medial nucleus of animals automatically select drinking water with a high thalamus concentration of sodium chloride in preference to pure Geniculate water, and the amount of sodium chloride in the water Chorda ganglion Tongue tympani is often sufficient to supply the needs of the body and prevent death due to salt depletion. Second, an animal N. VII given injections of excessive amounts of insulin develops Nucleus of a depleted blood sugar level, and the animal automatically Glossopharyngeal N. IX solitary tract Petrosal chooses the sweetest food from among many samples. Gustatory ganglion area Third, calcium- depleted, parathyroidectomized animals N. X automatically choose drinking water with a high concen- tration of calcium chloride. Pharynx Nodose The same phenomena are also observed in everyday ganglion life. For example, the “salt licks” of desert regions are known to attract animals from far and wide. Also, human beings reject food that has an unpleasant affective sensa- Figure 54-2 . Transmission of taste signals into the central nervous tion, which in many cases protects our bodies from unde- system. N., nerve. sirable substances. 678 Chapter 54 The Chemical Senses—Taste and Smell The phenomenon of taste preference almost certainly cilia and then it binds with receptor proteins in the mem- results from some mechanism located in the central brane of each cilium (Figure 54- 4). Each receptor protein nervous system and not from a mechanism in the taste is actually a long molecule that threads its way through the receptors,
