Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


each cilium (Figure 54- 4). Each receptor protein nervous system and not from a mechanism in the taste is actually a long molecule that threads its way through the receptors, although the receptors often become sensitized membrane about seven times, folding inward and outward. in favor of a needed nutrient. An important reason for believing that taste preference is mainly a central nervous Olfactory tract system phenomenon is that previous experience with unpleasant or pleasant tastes plays a major role in deter- Olfactory bulb mining one’s taste preferences. For example, if a person becomes sick soon after eating a particular type of food, Mitral cell the person then generally develops a negative taste prefer- ence, or taste aversion, for that particular food; the same Glomerulus Bowman’s gland effect can be demonstrated in lower animals. SENSE OF SMELL Sustentacular Smell is the least understood of our senses, partly because cells the sense of smell is a subjective phenomenon that cannot Olfactory cell be studied with ease in lower animals. Another compli- cating problem is that the sense of smell is poorly devel- Olfactory cilia oped in human beings compared with the sense of smell in many other mammals. Mucus layer OLFACTORY MEMBRANE Figure 54- 3. Organization of the olfactory membrane and olfactory bulb and connections to the olfactory tract. The olfactory membrane, the histology of which is shown in Figure 54-3 , lies in the superior part of the nasal cav- ity. Medially, the olfactory membrane folds downward along the surface of the superior septum; laterally, it folds over the superior turbinate and even over a small portion of the upper surface of the middle turbinate. The olfac- tory membrane has a total surface area of about 5 square centimeters in humans. Olfactory Cells Are the Receptor Cells for Smell Sen- sation. The olfactory cells (see Figure 53- 3) are actually bipolar nerve cells derived originally from the central nervous system. There are about 100 million of these cells in the olfactory epithelium interspersed among sus- Extracellular side Adenyl tentacular cells, as shown in Figure 54- 3. The mucosal Odorant cyclase end of the olfactory cell forms a knob from which 4 to Odorant Na+ receptor 25 olfactory hairs (also called olfactory cilia), measuring 0.3 micrometer in diameter and up to 200 micrometers in length, project into the mucus that coats the inner surface of the nasal cavity. These projecting olfactory
