Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


olfactory cilia), measuring 0.3 micrometer in diameter and up to 200 micrometers in length, project into the mucus that coats the inner surface of the nasal cavity. These projecting olfactory cilia form a dense mat in the mucus, and it is these cilia that react to odors in the air and stimulate the olfactory cells, as dis- cussed later. Spaced among the olfactory cells in the olfac- γ α tory membrane are many small Bowman glands that se- β Na+ crete mucus onto the surface of the olfactory membrane. G-protein ATP cAMP Cytoplasmic side STIMULATION OF THE OLFACTORY CELLS Figure 54-4. Summary of olfactory signal transduction. Binding of Mechanism of Excitation of the Olfactory Cells. The the odorant to a G- protein–coupled receptor causes the activation of adenylate cyclase, which converts adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cy- portion of each olfactory cell that responds to the olfac- clic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). The cAMP activates a gated tory chemical stimuli is the olfactory cilia. The odorant sodium channel that increases sodium influx and depolarizes the cell, substance, on coming in contact with the olfactory mem- exciting the olfactory neuron and transmitting action potentials to brane surface, first diffuses into the mucus that covers the the central nervous system. 679 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses The odorant binds with the portion of the receptor protein the stimulus strength, which demonstrates that the olfac- that folds to the outside. The inside of the folding protein is tory receptors obey principles of transduction similar to coupled to a G protein, itself a combination of three subu- those of other sensory receptors. nits. On excitation of the receptor protein, an alpha subu- Rapid Adaptation of Olfactory Sensations. The olfac- nit breaks away from the G protein and activates adenylyl tory receptors adapt about 50% in the first second or so cyclase, which is attached to the inside of the ciliary mem- after stimulation. Thereafter, they adapt very little and brane near the receptor cell body. The activated cyclase, very slowly. Yet, we all know from our own experience in turn, converts many molecules of intracellular adeno- that smell sensations adapt almost to extinction within sine triphosphate (ATP) into cyclic adenosine monophos- a minute or so after entering a strongly odorous atmos- phate (cAMP). Finally, this cAMP activates another nearby phere. Because this psychological adaptation is far greater membrane protein, a
