Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


monophos- a minute or so after entering a strongly odorous atmos- phate (cAMP). Finally, this cAMP activates another nearby phere. Because this psychological adaptation is far greater membrane protein, a gated sodium ion channel, that opens than the degree of adaptation of the receptors, it is almost its “gate” and allows large numbers of sodium ions to pour certain that most of the additional adaptation occurs in through the membrane into the receptor cell cytoplasm. the central nervous system, which seems to be true for the The sodium ions increase the electrical potential in the adaptation of taste sensations as well. positive direction inside the cell membrane, thus exciting The following neuronal mechanism for the adaptation the olfactory neuron and transmitting action potentials is postulated: large numbers of centrifugal nerve fibers into the central nervous system via the olfactory nerve. pass from the olfactory regions of the brain backward The importance of this mechanism for activating olfac- along the olfactory tract and terminate on special inhibi- tory nerves is that it greatly multiplies the excitatory effect tory cells in the olfactory bulb, the granule cells. After the of even the weakest odorant. To summarize: (1) activation onset of an olfactory stimulus, the central nervous system of the receptor protein by the odorant substance activates quickly develops strong feedback inhibition to suppress the G- protein complex, which, in turn (2) activates mul- relay of the smell signals through the olfactory bulb. tiple molecules of adenylyl cyclase inside the olfactory cell membrane, which (3) causes the formation of many times Search for the Primary Sensations of more molecules of cAMP, and finally, (4) the cAMP opens Smell still many times more sodium ion channels. Therefore, In the past, most physiologists were convinced that the even a minute concentration of a specific odorant initiates many smell sensations are subserved by a few rather dis- a cascading effect that opens extremely large numbers of crete primary sensations in the same way that vision and sodium channels. This process accounts for the exquisite taste are subserved by a few select primary sensations. On sensitivity of the olfactory neurons to even the slightest the basis of psychological studies, one attempt to classify amount of odorant. these sensations is the following: In addition to the basic chemical mechanism whereby 1. Camphoraceous the olfactory cells are stimulated, several physical factors 2. Musky affect the degree of stimulation. First,
