Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sensations is the following: In addition to the basic chemical mechanism whereby 1. Camphoraceous the olfactory cells are stimulated, several physical factors 2. Musky affect the degree of stimulation. First, only volatile sub- 3. Floral stances that can be sniffed into the nasal cavity can be 4. Pepperminty smelled. Second, the stimulating substance must be at 5. Ethereal least slightly water- soluble so that it can pass through the 6. Pungent mucus to reach the olfactory cilia. Third, it is helpful for 7. Putrid the substance to be at least slightly lipid- soluble, presum- It is certain that this list does not represent the true ably because lipid constituents of the cilium are a weak primary sensations of smell. Multiple clues, including barrier to non–lipid- soluble odorants. specific studies of the genes that encode for the recep- Membrane Potentials and Action Potentials in tor proteins, suggest the existence of at least 100 primary Olfactory Cells. The membrane potential inside unstim- sensations of smell—a marked contrast to only three pri- mary sensations of color detected by the eyes and only ulated olfactory cells, as measured by microelectrodes, five primary sensations of taste detected by the tongue. averages about −55 millivolts. At this potential, most of Some studies suggest that there may be as many as 1000 the cells generate continuous action potentials at a very different types of odorant receptors. Further support for slow rate, varying from once every 20 seconds up to two the many primary sensations of smell is that people have or three per second. been found who have odor blindness for single substances; Most odorants cause depolarization of the olfactory such discrete odor blindness has been identified for more cell membrane, decreasing the negative potential in the than 50 different substances. It is presumed that odor cell from the normal level of −55 millivolts to −30 milli- blindness for each substance represents lack of the appro- volts or less. Along with this, the number of action poten- priate receptor protein in olfactory cells for that particular tials increases to 20 to 30 per second, which is a high rate substance. for the minute olfactory nerve fibers. Over a wide range, the rate of olfactory nerve impulses Affective Nature of Smell. Smell, even more so than changes approximately in proportion to the logarithm of taste, has the affective quality of either pleasantness or 680 Chapter 54 The Chemical
