Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Nature of Smell. Smell, even more so than changes approximately in proportion to the logarithm of taste, has the affective quality of either pleasantness or 680 Chapter 54 The Chemical Senses—Taste and Smell unpleasantness, and thus smell is probably even more terminating in multiple globular structures in the olfac- important than taste for the selection of food. A person tory bulb called glomeruli. Each bulb has several thousand who has previously eaten food that disagreed with him or such glomeruli, each of which is the terminus for about her is often nauseated by the smell of that same food on a 25,000 axons from olfactory cells. Each glomerulus also second occasion. Conversely, perfume of the right quality is the terminus for dendrites from about 25 large mitral can be a powerful stimulant of human emotions. In addi- cells and about 60 smaller tufted cells, the cell bodies of tion, in some animals, odors are the primary excitant of which lie in the olfactory bulb superior to the glomeruli. sexual drive. These dendrites receive synapses from the olfactory cell neurons; the mitral and tufted cells send axons through Threshold for Smell. One of the principal characteris- the olfactory tract to transmit olfactory signals to higher tics of smell is the minute quantity of stimulating agent in levels in the central nervous system. the air that can elicit a smell sensation. For example, the Some research has suggested that different glomeruli substance methylmercaptan can be smelled when only respond to different odors. It is possible that specific one 25 trillionth of a gram is present in each milliliter of glomeruli are the real clue to the analysis of different odor air. Because of this very low threshold, this substance is signals transmitted into the central nervous system. mixed with natural gas to give the gas an odor that can be detected when even small amounts of gas leak from a Primitive and Newer Olfactory Pathways pipeline. Into the Central Nervous System Gradations of Smell Intensities. Although the thresh- The olfactory tract enters the brain at the anterior junc- old concentrations of substances that evoke smell are tion between the mesencephalon and cerebrum; there, the extremely slight, for many (if not most) odorants, con- tract divides into two pathways, as shown in Figure 54- 5, centrations only 10 to 50 times above the threshold evoke one passing medially into the medial olfactory area
