Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


con- tract divides into two pathways, as shown in Figure 54- 5, centrations only 10 to 50 times above the threshold evoke one passing medially into the medial olfactory area of the maximum intensity of smell. This range of intensity dis- brain stem and the other passing laterally into the lateral crimination is in contrast to most other sensory systems olfactory area. The medial olfactory area represents a very of the body, in which the ranges of intensity discrimina- primitive olfactory system, whereas the lateral olfactory tion are tremendous—for example, 500,000 to 1 for the area is the input to the following: (1) a less old olfactory eyes and 1 trillion to 1 for the ears. This difference might system; and (2) a newer system. be explained by the fact that smell is concerned more with The Primitive Olfactory System—The Medial O lfactory detecting the presence or absence of odors rather than Area. The medial olfactory area consists of a group of nu- with quantitative detection of their intensities. clei located in the midbasal portions of the brain imme- TRANSMISSION OF SMELL SIGNALS INTO diately anterior to the hypothalamus. Most conspicuous THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM are the septal nuclei, which are midline nuclei that feed into the hypothalamus and other primitive portions of The olfactory portions of the brain were among the first the brain’s limbic system. This is the brain area most con- brain structures developed in primitive animals, and cerned with basic behavior (as described in Chapter 59). much of the remainder of the brain developed around The importance of this medial olfactory area is best these olfactory beginnings. In fact, part of the brain that understood by considering what happens in animals originally subserved olfaction later evolved into the basal brain structures that control emotions and other aspects Hypothalamus Medial olfactory area of human behavior; we call this system the limbic system, as discussed in Chapter 59. Prefrontal Transmission of Olfactory Signals Into the Olfactory cortex Bulb. The olfactory bulb is shown in Figure 54- 5. The ol- Olfactory factory nerve fibers leading backward from the bulb are tract called cranial nerve I, or the olfactory tract. In reality, both the tract and the bulb are an anterior outgrowth of brain Mitral cell tissue from the base of the brain; the bulbous enlargement at its end, the olfactory bulb, lies over the cribriform plate, Olfactory bulb separating
