Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


anterior outgrowth of brain Mitral cell tissue from the base of the brain; the bulbous enlargement at its end, the olfactory bulb, lies over the cribriform plate, Olfactory bulb separating the brain cavity from the upper reaches of the nasal cavity. The cribriform plate has multiple small per- Lateral Orbito- forations through which an equal number of small nerves olfactory frontal pass upward from the olfactory membrane in the nasal area cortex cavity to enter the olfactory bulb in the cranial cavity. Brain stem Hippocampus Temporal Figure 54- 3 demonstrates the close relation between the cortex olfactory cells in the olfactory membrane and the olfac- tory bulb, showing short axons from the olfactory cells Figure 54- 5. Neural connections of the olfactory system. 681 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses when the lateral olfactory areas on both sides of the Centrifugal Control of Activity in the Olfactory Bulb brain are removed, and only the medial system remains. by the Central Nervous System. Many nerve fibers The removal of these areas hardly affects the more basic that originate in the olfactory portions of the brain pass responses to olfaction, such as licking the lips, salivation, from the brain in the outward direction into the olfacto- and other feeding responses caused by the smell of food ry tract to the olfactory bulb (i.e., centrifugally from the or by basic emotional drives associated with smell. Con- brain to the periphery). These nerve fibers terminate on versely, removal of the lateral areas abolishes the more a large number of small granule cells located among the complicated olfactory conditioned reflexes. mitral and tufted cells in the olfactory bulb. The granule cells send inhibitory signals to the mitral and tufted cells. The Less Old Olfactory System—The Lateral Olfactory This inhibitory feedback may be a means for sharpening Area. The lateral olfactory area is composed mainly of the a person’s specific ability to distinguish one odor from prepyriform and pyriform cortex plus the cortical portion another. of the amygdaloid nuclei. From these areas, signal path- ways pass into almost all portions of the limbic system, Bibliography especially into less primitive portions such as the hip- pocampus, which seem to be most important for learning Augustine V, Gokce SK, Oka Y: Peripheral and central nutrient to like or dislike certain foods depending on one’s experi- sensing underlying appetite regulation. Trends Neurosci 41:526, ences
