Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that subserves the basic olfactory reflexes, a less of bad taste. Physiol Rev 99:605, 2019. old system that provides automatic but partially learned Smith DV, Margolskee RF: Making sense of taste. Sci Am 284:32, 2001. control of food intake and aversion to toxic and unhealthy Tizzano M, Finger TE: Chemosensors in the nose: guardians of the foods, and a newer system that is comparable to most of airways. Physiology (Bethesda) 28:51, 2013. the other cortical sensory systems and is used for con- Yarmolinsky DA, Zuker CS, Ryba NJ: Common sense about taste: scious perception and analysis of olfaction. from mammals to insects. Cell 16;139:234, 2009. 682 CHAPTER 5 5 Spinal Cord Motor Functions; the Cord Reflexes Sensory information is integrated at all levels of the ner- levels of the nervous system—that is, to higher levels in vous system and causes appropriate motor responses the cord, to the brain stem, or even to the cerebral cortex, that begin in the spinal cord with relatively simple as described in earlier chapters. muscle reflexes, extend into the brain stem with more Each segment of the spinal cord (at the level of each complicated responses, and finally extend to the cere- spinal nerve) has several million neurons in its gray mat- brum, where the most complicated muscle skills are ter. Aside from the sensory relay neurons discussed in controlled. Chapters 48 and 49, the other neurons are of two types: In this chapter, we discuss spinal cord control of mus- (1) anterior motor neurons and (2) interneurons. cle function. Without the special neuronal circuits of the Anterior Motor Neurons. Located in each segment of cord, even the most complex motor control systems in the the anterior horns of the cord gray matter are several brain could not cause any purposeful muscle movement. thousand neurons that are 50 to 100% larger than most For example, there is no neuronal circuit anywhere in the of the others and are called anterior motor neurons (Fig- brain that causes the specific to-a nd- fro movements of ure 55- 2). They give rise to the nerve fibers that leave the the legs that are required in walking. Instead, the circuits cord by way of the anterior roots and directly innervate for these movements are in the cord, and the brain sim- the skeletal muscle fibers. The neurons are of two types, ply sends command signals to the spinal cord
