Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


innervate for these movements are in the cord, and the brain sim- the skeletal muscle fibers. The neurons are of two types, ply sends command signals to the spinal cord to set into alpha motor neurons and gamma motor neurons. motion the walking process. Let us not belittle the role of the brain. The brain gives directions that control the sequential cord activities—for Solitary cell Sensory root example, to promote turning movements when they are required, to lean the body forward during acceleration, to change the movements from walking to jumping as needed, and to monitor continuously and control equi- External basal cells librium. All this is done through “analytical” and “com- mand” signals generated in the brain. However, the many Corticospinal tract neuronal circuits of the spinal cord that are the objects of the commands are also required. These circuits provide all but a small fraction of the direct control of the muscles. Interneurons ORGANIZATION OF THE SPINAL CORD FOR MOTOR FUNCTIONS Anterior motor neurons The cord gray matter is the integrative area for the cord reflexes. Figure 55- 1 shows the typical organization of the cord gray matter in a single cord segment. Sensory signals enter the cord almost entirely through the sensory roots, also known as the posterior or dorsal roots. After entering the cord, every sensory signal travels to two separate destinations: one branch of the sensory nerve Motor root terminates almost immediately in the gray matter of the Figure 55- 1. Connections of peripheral sensory fibers and corti- cord and elicits local segmental cord reflexes and other cospinal fibers with the interneurons and anterior motor neurons of local effects; another branch transmits signals to higher the spinal cord. 685 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Dorsal root ganglion spinal cord that are discussed in the remainder of this Posterior horn chapter. Essentially all the different types of neuronal circuits described in Chapter 47 are found in the interneuron pool Descending of cells of the spinal cord, including diverging, converging, Intermediate zone fibers repetitive- discharge, and other types of circuits. In this chapter, we examine many applications of these different circuits in the performance of specific reflex actions by the spinal cord. Anterior horn Only a few incoming sensory signals from the spinal nerves or signals from the brain terminate directly on the Gamma motor neuron 1a fiber anterior motor
