Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


spinal cord. Anterior horn Only a few incoming sensory signals from the spinal nerves or signals from the brain terminate directly on the Gamma motor neuron 1a fiber anterior motor neurons. Instead, almost all these signals Alpha motor neuron 1b fiber are transmitted first through interneurons, where they are appropriately processed. Thus, in Figure 55- 1, the Motor end plate corticospinal tract from the brain is shown to terminate almost entirely on spinal interneurons, where the signals from this tract are combined with signals from other spi- nal tracts or spinal nerves before finally converging on the Skeletal muscle Muscle spindle Golgi tendon organ anterior motor neurons to control muscle function. Figure 55- 2. Peripheral sensory fibers and anterior motor neurons innervating skeletal muscle. Renshaw Cells Transmit Inhibitory Signals to Surround- ing Motor Neurons. Also located in the anterior horns of the spinal cord, in close association with the motor neu- Alpha Motor Neurons. The alpha motor neurons give rons, are a large number of small neurons called Renshaw rise to large type A alpha (Aα) motor nerve fibers, aver- cells. Almost immediately after the anterior motor neuron aging 14 micrometers in diameter; these fibers branch axon leaves the body of the neuron, collateral branches many times after they enter the muscle and innervate the from the axon pass to adjacent Renshaw cells. Renshaw cells are inhibitory cells that transmit inhibitory signals to large skeletal muscle fibers. Stimulation of a single alpha the surrounding motor neurons. Thus, stimulation of each nerve fiber excites from three to several hundred skeletal motor neuron tends to inhibit adjacent motor neurons, muscle fibers, which are collectively called the motor unit. an effect called lateral inhibition. The motor system uses Transmission of nerve impulses into skeletal muscles and this lateral inhibition to focus, or sharpen, its signals in the their stimulation of the muscle motor units are discussed same way that the sensory system uses the same principle in Chapters 6 and 7. to allow unabated transmission of the primary signal in the Gamma Motor Neurons. Along with the alpha motor desired direction while suppressing the tendency for sig- nals to spread laterally. neurons, which excite contraction of the skeletal muscle Multisegmental Connections From One Spinal Cord fibers, about one-half as many much smaller gamma mo- Level to Other Levels—Propriospinal Fibers. More than half tor neurons are located in the spinal cord anterior horns. of
