Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Spinal Cord fibers, about one-half as many much smaller gamma mo- Level to Other Levels—Propriospinal Fibers. More than half tor neurons are located in the spinal cord anterior horns. of all the nerve fibers that ascend and descend in the spinal These gamma motor neurons transmit impulses through cord are propriospinal fibers. These fibers run from one seg- much smaller type A gamma (Aγ) motor nerve fibers, av- ment of the cord to another. In addition, as the sensory fibers eraging 5 micrometers in diameter, which go to small, spe- enter the cord from the posterior cord roots, they bifurcate cial skeletal muscle fibers called intrafusal fibers, shown in and branch both up and down the spinal cord; some of the Figures 55- 2 and 55- 3. These fibers constitute the middle branches transmit signals to only a segment or two, whereas of the muscle spindle, which helps control basic muscle others transmit signals to many segments. These ascend- “tone,” as discussed later in this chapter. ing and descending propriospinal fibers of the cord provide pathways for the multisegmental reflexes described later in Interneurons. Interneurons are present in all areas of the this chapter, including reflexes that coordinate simultaneous cord gray matter—in the dorsal horns, the anterior horns, movements in the forelimbs and hindlimbs. and the intermediate areas between them, as shown in Figure 55- 1. These cells are about 30 times as numerous as the anterior motor neurons. They are small and highly MUSCLE SENSORY RECEPTORS— excitable, often exhibiting spontaneous activity and ca- MUSCLE SPINDLES AND GOLGI pable of firing as rapidly as 1500 times per second. They TENDON ORGANS—AND THEIR ROLES have many interconnections with one another, and many IN MUSCLE CONTROL of them also synapse directly with the anterior motor neurons, as shown in Figure 55- 1. The interconnections Proper control of muscle function requires not only exci- among the interneurons and anterior motor neurons are tation of the muscle by spinal cord anterior motor neu- responsible for most of the integrative functions of the rons but also continuous feedback of sensory information 686 Chapter 55 Spinal Cord Motor Functions; the Cord Reflexes Motor Sensory Motor Dynamic γ fiber Static γ fiber Group Ia fiber (efferent) (efferent) (primary afferent) (cid:29) (cid:30) Ia II (cid:30) Plate Group II fibers 14 (cid:31)m 5 (cid:31)m 17 (cid:31)m 8 (cid:31)m 5 (cid:31)m ending (secondary afferent) Nuclear bag fiber (intrafusal muscle) Nuclear
