Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


(primary afferent) (cid:29) (cid:30) Ia II (cid:30) Plate Group II fibers 14 (cid:31)m 5 (cid:31)m 17 (cid:31)m 8 (cid:31)m 5 (cid:31)m ending (secondary afferent) Nuclear bag fiber (intrafusal muscle) Nuclear chain fiber (intrafusal muscle) Alpha motor Sheath Primary Extrafusal Trail ending ending ending fibers Figure 55- 4. Details of nerve connections from the nuclear bag and Gamma motor Fluid Secondary Intrafusal nuclear chain muscle spindle fibers. (Modified from Stein RB: Periph- ending cavity ending fibers eral control of movement. Physiol Rev 54:225, 1974.) 1 cm Figure 55- 3. Muscle spindle, showing its relationship to the large as described earlier. These gamma motor nerve fibers are extrafusal skeletal muscle fibers. Note also both motor and sensory also called gamma efferent fibers, in contradistinction to innervation of the muscle spindle. the large alpha efferent fibers (type Aα nerve fibers) that innervate the extrafusal skeletal muscle. from each muscle to the spinal cord, indicating the func- Sensory Innervation of the Muscle Spindle. The re- tional status of each muscle at each instant. That is, what ceptor portion of the muscle spindle is its central portion. is the length of the muscle, what is its instantaneous ten- As shown in Figure 55- 3 and in more detail in Figure 55- sion, and how rapidly is its length or tension changing? 4, sensory fibers originate in this area and are stimulated To provide this information, the muscles and their ten- by stretching of this midportion of the spindle. One can dons are supplied abundantly with two special types of readily see that the muscle spindle receptor can be excited sensory receptors: (1) muscle spindles (see Figure 55- 2), in two ways: which are distributed throughout the belly of the muscle 1. Lengthening the whole muscle stretches the mid- and send information to the nervous system about muscle portion of the spindle and, therefore, excites the re- length or rate of change of length, and (2) Golgi tendon ceptor. organs (see Figures 55- 2 and 55- 8), which are located in 2. Even if the length of the entire muscle does not the muscle tendons and transmit information about ten- change, contraction of the end portions of the spin- don tension or rate of change of tension. dle’s intrafusal fibers stretches the midportion of the The signals from these two receptors are almost spindle and therefore excites the receptor. entirely for the purpose of intrinsic muscle
