Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tension. dle’s intrafusal fibers stretches the midportion of the The signals from these two receptors are almost spindle and therefore excites the receptor. entirely for the purpose of intrinsic muscle control. They Two types of sensory endings, the primary afferent and operate almost completely at a subconscious level. Even secondary afferent endings, are found in this central recep- so, they transmit tremendous amounts of information not tor area of the muscle spindle. only to the spinal cord but also to the cerebellum and even to the cerebral cortex, helping these portions of the ner- Primary Ending. In the center of the receptor area, a vous system function to control muscle contraction. large sensory nerve fiber encircles the central portion of each intrafusal fiber, forming the primary afferent ending RECEPTOR FUNCTION OF THE MUSCLE or annulospiral ending. This nerve fiber is a type Ia fiber SPINDLE averaging 17 micrometers in diameter, and it transmits sensory signals to the spinal cord at a velocity of 70 to 120 Structure and Motor Innervation of the Muscle m/sec, as rapidly as any type of nerve fiber in the entire Spindle. The organization of the muscle spindle is shown body. in Figure 55- 3. Each spindle is 3 to 10 millimeters long. Secondary Ending. Usually one but sometimes two It is built around 3 to 12 tiny intrafusal muscle fibers that smaller sensory nerve fibers—type II fibers with an av- are pointed at their ends and attached to the glycocalyx erage diameter of 8 micrometers—innervate the recep- of the surrounding large extrafusal skeletal muscle fibers tor region on one or both sides of the primary ending, as (Video 55- 1). shown in Figures 55- 3 and 55- 4. This sensory ending is Each intrafusal muscle fiber is a tiny skeletal muscle called the secondary afferent ending; sometimes it encir- fiber. However, the central region of each of these fibers— cles the intrafusal fibers in the same way as the type Ia that is, the area midway between its two ends—has few fiber, but often it spreads like branches on a bush. or no actin and myosin filaments. Therefore, this central portion does not contract when the ends do. Instead, it Division of the Intrafusal Fibers Into Nuclear Bag and functions as a sensory receptor, as described later. The Nuclear Chain Fibers—Dynamic and Static Responses end portions that do contract are excited by small gamma of
