Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Into Nuclear Bag and functions as a sensory receptor, as described later. The Nuclear Chain Fibers—Dynamic and Static Responses end portions that do contract are excited by small gamma of the Muscle Spindle. There are also two types of mus- motor nerve fibers that originate from small type A gamma cle spindle intrafusal fibers: (1) nuclear bag muscle fibers motor neurons in the anterior horns of the spinal cord, (one to three in each spindle), in which several muscle 687 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology fiber nuclei are congregated in expanded “bags” in the central portion of the receptor area, as shown by the top fiber in Figure 55- 4, and (2) nuclear chain fibers (three to nine), which are about half as large in diameter and half as long as the nuclear bag fibers and have nuclei aligned in a chain throughout the receptor area, as shown by the bot- tom fiber in the figure. The primary sensory nerve ending is excited by both the nuclear bag intrafusal fibers and the Sensory nerve nuclear chain fibers. Conversely, the secondary ending is usually excited only by nuclear chain fibers. These rela- tions are shown in Figure 55- 4. The Primary and the Secondary Endings Both Respond Motor nerve to the Length of the Receptor—“Static” Response. When the receptor portion of the muscle spindle is Muscle spindle stretched slowly, the number of impulses transmitted from both the primary and the secondary endings increases al- Stretch reflex most directly in proportion to the degree of stretching, and Figure 55- 5. Neuronal circuit of the stretch reflex. the endings continue to transmit these impulses for several minutes. This effect is called the static response of the spin- dle receptor, meaning that both the primary and secondary response while having little influence on the dynamic re- endings continue to transmit their signals for at least sev- sponse. Subsequent paragraphs illustrate that these two eral minutes if the muscle spindle remains stretched. types of muscle spindle responses are important in differ- ent types of muscle control. The Primary Ending (but Not the Secondary Ending) Responds to Rate of Change of Receptor Length— Continuous Discharge of the Muscle Spindles Under “Dynamic” Response. When the length of the spindle Normal Conditions. Normally, when there is some de- receptor increases suddenly, the primary ending (but not gree of gamma nerve excitation,
