Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Under “Dynamic” Response. When the length of the spindle Normal Conditions. Normally, when there is some de- receptor increases suddenly, the primary ending (but not gree of gamma nerve excitation, the muscle spindles emit the secondary ending) is stimulated powerfully. This stim- sensory nerve impulses continuously. Stretching the mus- ulus of the primary ending is called the dynamic response, cle spindles increases the rate of firing, whereas short- which means that the primary ending responds extremely ening the spindle decreases the rate of firing. Thus, the actively to a rapid rate of change in spindle length. Even spindles can send to the spinal cord either positive signals when the length of a spindle receptor increases only a (increased numbers of impulses to indicate stretch of a fraction of a micrometer for only a fraction of a second, muscle) or negative signals (reduced numbers of impuls- the primary receptor transmits tremendous numbers of es) to indicate that the muscle is unstretched. excess impulses to the large 17-m icrometer sensory nerve MUSCLE STRETCH REFLEX fiber, but only while the length is actually increasing. As soon as the length stops increasing, this extra rate of im- The simplest manifestation of muscle spindle function is pulse discharge returns to the level of the much smaller the muscle stretch reflex. Whenever a muscle is stretched static response that is still present in the signal. suddenly, excitation of the spindles causes reflex contrac- Conversely, when the spindle receptor shortens, tion of the large skeletal muscle fibers of the stretched exactly opposite sensory signals occur. Thus, the primary muscle and of closely allied synergistic muscles. ending sends extremely strong signals, either positive or Neuronal Circuitry of the Stretch Reflex. Figure 55- negative, to the spinal cord to apprise it of any change in 5 demonstrates the basic circuit of the muscle spindle length of the spindle receptor. stretch reflex, showing a type Ia proprioceptor nerve fiber Control of Intensity of the Static and Dynamic originating in a muscle spindle and entering a dorsal root Responses by the Gamma Motor Nerves. The gamma of the spinal cord. A branch of this fiber then goes directly motor nerves to the muscle spindle can be divided into to the anterior horn of the cord gray matter and synapses two types: gamma- dynamic (gamma- d) and gamma- with anterior motor neurons that send motor nerve fibers static (gamma- s). The first
