Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


horn of the cord gray matter and synapses two types: gamma- dynamic (gamma- d) and gamma- with anterior motor neurons that send motor nerve fibers static (gamma- s). The first of these gamma motor nerves back to the same muscle from which the muscle spindle excites mainly the nuclear bag intrafusal fibers, and the fiber originated. Thus, this monosynaptic pathway allows second excites mainly the nuclear chain intrafusal fibers. a reflex signal to return with the shortest possible time When the gamma- d fibers excite the nuclear bag fibers, delay back to the muscle after excitation of the spindle. the dynamic response of the muscle spindle becomes tre- Most type II fibers from the muscle spindle terminate on mendously enhanced, whereas the static response is hard- multiple interneurons in the cord gray matter, and these ly affected. Conversely, stimulation of the gamma- s fibers, transmit delayed signals to the anterior motor neurons or which excite the nuclear chain fibers, enhances the static serve other functions. 688 Chapter 55 Spinal Cord Motor Functions; the Cord Reflexes Dynamic Stretch Reflex and Static Stretch Reflexes. Stimulus (8 per second) The stretch reflex can be divided into two components: the dynamic stretch reflex and the static stretch reflex. The dynamic stretch reflex is elicited by potent dynamic signals transmitted from the primary sensory endings of the muscle spindles, caused by rapid stretch or un- stretch. That is, when a muscle is suddenly stretched or unstretched, a strong signal is transmitted to the spinal cord, which causes an instantaneous strong reflex con- A B traction (or decrease in contraction) of the same muscle from which the signal originated. Thus, the reflex func- 0 1 2 3 tions to oppose sudden changes in muscle length. Seconds The dynamic stretch reflex is over within a frac- Figure 55- 6. Muscle contraction caused by a spinal cord signal un- tion of a second after the muscle has been stretched (or der two conditions. Depicted are curve A, in a normal muscle, and unstretched) to its new length, but then a weaker static curve B, in a muscle whose muscle spindles were denervated by sec- tion of the posterior roots of the cord 82 days previously. Note the stretch reflex continues for a prolonged period thereafter. smoothing effect of the muscle spindle reflex in curve A. (Modified This reflex is elicited by the continuous static receptor sig- from Creed
