Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


reflex continues for a prolonged period thereafter. smoothing effect of the muscle spindle reflex in curve A. (Modified This reflex is elicited by the continuous static receptor sig- from Creed RS, Denney- Brown D, Eccles JC, et al: Reflex Activity of nals transmitted by both primary and secondary endings. the Spinal Cord. New York: Oxford University Press, 1932.) The importance of the static stretch reflex is that it causes the degree of muscle contraction to remain reasonably stimulated simultaneously, an effect called coactivation of constant, except when the person’s nervous system spe- the alpha and gamma motor neurons. This effect causes cifically wills otherwise. both the extrafusal skeletal muscle fibers and the muscle “Damping” Function of the Dynamic and Static spindle intrafusal muscle fibers to contract at the same Stretch Reflexes in Smoothing Muscle Contraction. time. An especially important function of the stretch reflex is The purpose of contracting the muscle spindle intra- its ability to prevent oscillation or jerkiness of body move- fusal fibers at the same time that the large skeletal mus- ments, which is a damping, or smoothing, function. cle fibers contract is twofold: First, it keeps the length of Signals from the spinal cord are often transmitted to the receptor portion of the muscle spindle from chang- a muscle in an unsmooth form, increasing in intensity ing during the course of the whole muscle contraction. for a few milliseconds, then decreasing in intensity, then Therefore, coactivation keeps the muscle spindle reflex changing to another intensity level, and so forth. When from opposing the muscle contraction. Second, it main- the muscle spindle apparatus is not functioning satisfac- tains the proper damping function of the muscle spindle, torily, the muscle contraction is jerky during the course of regardless of any change in muscle length. For instance, such a signal. This effect is demonstrated in Figure 55- 6. if the muscle spindle did not contract and relax along In part A, the muscle spindle reflex of the excited muscle with the large muscle fibers, the receptor portion of the is intact. Note that the contraction is relatively smooth, spindle would sometimes be flail and sometimes be over- even though the motor nerve to the muscle is excited at stretched, in neither instance operating under optimal a slow frequency of only eight signals per second. Part B conditions for spindle function. illustrates the same experiment in an animal whose mus-
