Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in neither instance operating under optimal a slow frequency of only eight signals per second. Part B conditions for spindle function. illustrates the same experiment in an animal whose mus- Brain Areas for Control of the Gamma cle spindle sensory nerves had been sectioned 3 months Motor System earlier. Note the unsmooth muscle contraction. Thus, Figure 55- 6A graphically demonstrates the damping The gamma efferent system is excited specifically by sig- mechanism’s ability to smooth muscle contractions, even nals from the bulboreticular facilitatory region of the though the primary input signals to the muscle motor sys- brain stem and, secondarily, by impulses transmitted into tem may themselves be jerky. This effect can also be called the bulboreticular area from the following: (1) the cerebel- a signal averaging function of the muscle spindle reflex. lum; (2) the basal ganglia; and (3) the cerebral cortex. Because the bulboreticular facilitatory area is particu- ROLE OF THE MUSCLE SPINDLE IN larly concerned with antigravity contractions, and because VOLUNTARY MOTOR ACTIVITY the antigravity muscles have an especially high density of muscle spindles, the gamma efferent mechanism is To understand the importance of the gamma efferent believed to be important for damping the movements of system, one should recognize that 31% of all the motor the different body parts during walking and running. nerve fibers to the muscle are the small type A gamma efferent fibers rather than large type A alpha motor fibers. The Muscle Spindle System Stabilizes Body Position Whenever signals are transmitted from the motor cortex During Tense Action. One of the most important func- or from any other area of the brain to the alpha motor tions of the muscle spindle system is to stabilize body posi- neurons, in most instances the gamma motor neurons are tion during tense motor action. To perform this function, 689 noitcartnoc fo ecroF UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology the bulboreticular facilitatory region and its allied areas Patellar tendon struck of the brain stem transmit excitatory signals through the Knee jerk gamma nerve fibers to the intrafusal muscle fibers of the muscle spindles. This action shortens the ends of the spin- dles and stretches the central receptor regions, thus in- creasing their signal output. However, if the spindles on both sides of each joint are activated at the same time, reflex excitation of the skeletal muscles on both sides of
