Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


creasing their signal output. However, if the spindles on both sides of each joint are activated at the same time, reflex excitation of the skeletal muscles on both sides of the joint also increases, producing tight, tense muscles Ankle clonus opposing each other at the joint. The net effect is that the position of the joint becomes strongly stabilized, and any 0 200 400 600 800 Milliseconds force that tends to move the joint from its current posi- tion is opposed by highly sensitized stretch reflexes oper- Figure 55- 7. Myograms recorded from the quadriceps muscle dur- ing elicitation of the knee jerk (above) and from the gastrocnemius ating on both sides of the joint. muscle during ankle clonus (below). Any time a person must perform a muscle function that requires a high degree of delicate and exact posi- tioning, excitation of the appropriate muscle spindles by Clonus—Oscillation of Muscle Jerks. Under some signals from the bulboreticular facilitatory region of the conditions, the muscle jerks can oscillate, a phenomenon brain stem stabilizes the positions of the major joints. This called clonus (see lower myogram, Figure 55- 7). Oscilla- stabilization aids tremendously in performing the addi- tion can be explained particularly well in relation to ankle clonus, as follows. tional detailed voluntary movements (of fingers or other If a person standing on the tip ends of the feet suddenly body parts) required for intricate motor procedures. drops his or her body downward and stretches the gas- trocnemius muscles, stretch reflex impulses are transmit- Clinical Applications of the Stretch Reflex ted from the muscle spindles into the spinal cord. These Almost every time a clinician performs a physical examina- impulses reflexively excite the stretched muscle, which lifts tion on a patient, he or she elicits multiple stretch reflexes. the body up again. After a fraction of a second, the reflex The purpose is to determine how much background excita- contraction of the muscle dies out and the body falls again, tion, or “tone,” the brain is sending to the spinal cord. This thus stretching the spindles a second time. Again, a dynam- reflex is elicited as follows. ic stretch reflex lifts the body, but this too dies out after a Knee Jerk and Other Muscle Jerks Can Be Used to As- fraction of a second, and the body falls once more to begin sess Sensitivity of Stretch Reflexes. Clinically, a method a
