Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and Other Muscle Jerks Can Be Used to As- fraction of a second, and the body falls once more to begin sess Sensitivity of Stretch Reflexes. Clinically, a method a new cycle. In this way, the stretch reflex of the gastrocne- used to determine the sensitivity of the stretch reflexes is mius muscle continues to oscillate, often for long periods, to elicit the knee jerk and other muscle jerks. The knee jerk which is clonus. can be elicited by simply striking the patellar tendon lightly Clonus ordinarily occurs only when the stretch reflex with a reflex hammer; this action instantaneously stretches is highly sensitized by facilitatory impulses from the brain. the quadriceps muscle and excites a dynamic stretch reflex For instance, in a decerebrate animal in which the stretch that causes the lower leg to “jerk” forward (Video 55- 2). reflexes are highly facilitated, clonus develops readily. To The upper part of Figure 55- 7 shows a myogram from the determine the degree of facilitation of the spinal cord, neu- quadriceps muscle recorded during a knee jerk. rologists test patients for clonus by suddenly stretching a Similar reflexes can be obtained from almost any muscle muscle and applying a steady stretching force to it. If clonus of the body either by striking the tendon of the muscle or by occurs, the degree of facilitation is certain to be high. striking the belly of the muscle itself. In other words, sud- den stretch of muscle spindles is all that is required to elicit GOLGI TENDON REFLEX a dynamic stretch reflex. The muscle jerks are used by neurologists to assess the Golgi Tendon Organ Helps Control Muscle Tension. degree of facilitation of spinal cord centers. When large The Golgi tendon organ, shown in Figure 55- 8, is an en- numbers of facilitatory impulses are being transmitted from capsulated sensory receptor through which muscle tendon the upper regions of the central nervous system into the fibers pass. About 10 to 15 muscle fibers are usually con- cord, the muscle jerks are greatly exaggerated. Conversely, nected to each Golgi tendon organ, and the organ is stimu- if the facilitatory impulses are depressed or abrogated, the lated when this small bundle of muscle fibers is “tensed” muscle jerks are considerably weakened or absent. These by contracting or stretching the muscle. Thus, the major reflexes are used most frequently in determining the pres- ence or absence
