Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


“tensed” muscle jerks are considerably weakened or absent. These by contracting or stretching the muscle. Thus, the major reflexes are used most frequently in determining the pres- ence or absence of muscle spasticity caused by lesions in difference in excitation of the Golgi tendon organ versus the motor areas of the brain or diseases that excite the bul- the muscle spindle is that the spindle detects muscle length boreticular facilitatory area of the brain stem. Ordinarily, and changes in muscle length, whereas the tendon organ large lesions in the motor areas of the cerebral cortex but not detects muscle tension as reflected by the tension in itself. in the lower motor control areas (especially lesions caused The tendon organ, like the primary receptor of the by strokes or brain tumors) cause greatly exaggerated mus- muscle spindle, has both a dynamic response and a static cle jerks in the muscles on the opposite side of the body. response, reacting intensely when the muscle tension 690 htgnel elcsuM Chapter 55 Spinal Cord Motor Functions; the Cord Reflexes Golgi tendon organ reflex effects in the respective muscle. This reflex is entire- ly inhibitory. Thus, this reflex provides a negative feedback Excess mechanism that prevents the development of too much tension tension on the muscle. Spinal cord When tension on the muscle—and therefore on the Sensory nerve tendon—becomes extreme, the inhibitory effect from fiber (16 mm) the tendon organ can be so great that it leads to a sud- den reaction in the spinal cord that causes instantaneous relaxation of the entire muscle. This effect is called the Inhibitory lengthening reaction; it is probably a protective mecha- interneuron nism to prevent tearing of the muscle or avulsion of the Muscle tendon from its attachments to the bone. Possible Role of the Tendon Reflex to Equalize Contractile Force Among the Muscle Fibers. Another Anterior motor likely function of the Golgi tendon reflex is to equalize neuron inhibited contractile forces of the separate muscle fibers. That is, the fibers that exert excess tension become inhibited by the reflex, whereas those that exert too little tension be- Relaxation reponse come more excited because of the absence of reflex inhi- bition. This phenomenon spreads the muscle load over all Muscle fibers the fibers and prevents damage in isolated areas of a mus- Figure 55- 8. Golgi tendon reflex. Excessive tension of the muscle cle where small numbers of
