Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


all Muscle fibers the fibers and prevents damage in isolated areas of a mus- Figure 55- 8. Golgi tendon reflex. Excessive tension of the muscle cle where small numbers of fibers might be overloaded. stimulates sensory receptors in the Golgi tendon organ. Signals from the receptors are transmitted through a sensory afferent nerve fiber Function of the Muscle Spindles and that excites an inhibitory interneuron in the spinal cord, inhibiting Golgi Tendon Organs in Motor Control by anterior motor neuron activity, causing muscle relaxation, and pro- Higher Levels of the Brain tecting the muscle against excessive tension. Although we have emphasized the function of the muscle spindles and Golgi tendon organs in spinal cord control of suddenly increases (the dynamic response) but settling motor function, these two sensory organs also apprise the down within a fraction of a second to a lower level of higher motor control centers of instantaneous changes steady- state firing that is almost directly proportional taking place in the muscles. For instance, the dorsal spi- to the muscle tension (the static response). Thus, Golgi nocerebellar tracts carry instantaneous information from tendon organs provide the nervous system with instanta- the muscle spindles and the Golgi tendon organs directly neous information on the degree of tension in each small to the cerebellum at conduction velocities approaching segment of each muscle. 120 m/sec, the most rapid conduction anywhere in the Transmission of Impulses From the Tendon Organ brain or spinal cord. Additional pathways transmit similar Into the Central Nervous System. Signals from the information into the reticular regions of the brain stem tendon organ are transmitted through large, rapidly con- and, to a lesser extent, all the way to the motor areas of the ducting type Ib nerve fibers that average 16 micrometers cerebral cortex. As discussed in Chapters 56 and 57, the in diameter, only slightly smaller than those from the information from these receptors is crucial for feedback primary endings of the muscle spindle. These fibers, like control of motor signals that originate in all these areas. those from the primary spindle endings, transmit signals into local areas of the cord and, after synapsing in a dorsal FLEXOR REFLEX AND THE horn of the cord, through long fiber pathways such as the WITHDRAWAL REFLEXES spinocerebellar tracts into the cerebellum and through still other tracts to the cerebral cortex. The local cord sig- In the spinal or decerebrate
