Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fiber pathways such as the WITHDRAWAL REFLEXES spinocerebellar tracts into the cerebellum and through still other tracts to the cerebral cortex. The local cord sig- In the spinal or decerebrate animal, almost any type of nal excites a single inhibitory interneuron that inhibits the cutaneous sensory stimulus from a limb is likely to cause anterior motor neuron. This local circuit directly inhibits the flexor muscles of the limb to contract, thereby with- the individual muscle without affecting adjacent muscles. drawing the limb from the stimulating object. This reflex The relation between signals to the brain and function of is called the flexor reflex. the cerebellum and other parts of the brain for muscle In its classic form, the flexor reflex is elicited most control is discussed in Chapter 57. powerfully by stimulation of pain endings, such as by The Tendon Reflex Prevents Excessive Tension on the a pinprick, heat, or a wound, for which reason it is also Muscle. When the Golgi tendon organs of a muscle ten- called a nociceptive reflex, or simply a pain reflex. Stimu- don are stimulated by increased tension in the connecting lation of touch receptors can also elicit a weaker and less muscle, signals are transmitted to the spinal cord to cause prolonged flexor reflex. 691 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology RECIPROCAL INHIBITION Fatigue Afterdischarge Duration of stimulus 0 1 2 3 Seconds Figure 55- 10. Myogram of the flexor reflex showing rapid onset of Excited the reflex, an interval of fatigue and, finally, afterdischarge after the Inhibited input stimulus is over. Polysynaptic circuit Excited Inhibited after a pain sensory nerve begins to be stimulated, the flexor response appears. Then, in the next few seconds, the reflex begins to fatigue, which is characteristic of Painful essentially all complex integrative reflexes of the spinal stimulus from hand cord. Finally, after the stimulus is over, the contraction of the muscle returns toward the baseline, but because of afterdischarge, it takes many milliseconds for this con- traction to occur. The duration of afterdischarge depends on the intensity of the sensory stimulus that elicited the reflex; a weak tactile stimulus causes almost no afterdis- charge, but after a strong pain stimulus, the afterdischarge FLEXOR CROSSED EXTENSOR may last for a second or more. REFLEX REFLEX The afterdischarge that occurs in the flexor reflex Figure 55- 9. Flexor reflex, crossed extensor reflex,
