Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the afterdischarge FLEXOR CROSSED EXTENSOR may last for a second or more. REFLEX REFLEX The afterdischarge that occurs in the flexor reflex Figure 55- 9. Flexor reflex, crossed extensor reflex, and reciprocal almost certainly results from both types of repetitive inhibition. discharge circuits discussed in Chapter 47. Electrophysi- ological studies indicate that immediate afterdischarge, If some part of the body other than one of the limbs is lasting for about 6 to 8 milliseconds, results from repeti- painfully stimulated, that part will similarly be withdrawn tive firing of the excited interneurons. Also, prolonged from the stimulus, but the reflex may not be confined to afterdischarge occurs after strong pain stimuli, almost flexor muscles, even though it is basically the same type certainly resulting from recurrent pathways that initiate of reflex. Therefore, the many patterns of these reflexes oscillation in reverberating interneuron circuits. These, in the different areas of the body are called withdrawal in turn, transmit impulses to the anterior motor neurons, reflexes. sometimes for several seconds after the incoming sensory signal is over. Neuronal Mechanism of the Flexor Reflex. The left- Thus, the flexor reflex is appropriately organized to hand portion of Figure 55- 9 shows the neuronal path- withdraw a pained or otherwise irritated part of the body ways for the flexor reflex. In this instance, a painful stimu- from a stimulus. Further, because of afterdischarge, the lus is applied to the hand; as a result, the flexor muscles reflex can hold the irritated part away from the stimulus of the upper arm become excited and withdraw the hand for 0.1 to 3 seconds after the irritation is over. During this from the painful stimulus. time, other reflexes and actions of the central nervous The pathways for eliciting the flexor reflex do not pass system can move the entire body away from the painful directly to the anterior motor neurons but instead pass stimulus. first into the spinal cord interneuron pool of neurons and only secondarily to the motor neurons. The shortest pos- Pattern of Withdrawal During Flexor Reflex. The pat- sible circuit is a three- or four- neuron pathway; however, tern of withdrawal that results when the flexor reflex most of the signals of the reflex traverse many more neu- is elicited depends on which sensory nerve is stimu- rons and involve the following basic types of circuits: (1) lated. Thus, a pain stimulus on the inward
