Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


many more neu- is elicited depends on which sensory nerve is stimu- rons and involve the following basic types of circuits: (1) lated. Thus, a pain stimulus on the inward side of the diverging circuits to spread the reflex to the necessary arm elicits not only contraction of the flexor muscles muscles for withdrawal; (2) circuits to inhibit the antago- of the arm but also contraction of abductor muscles to nist muscles, called reciprocal inhibition circuits; and (3) pull the arm outward. In other words, the cord inte- circuits to cause afterdischarge that lasts many fractions grative centers cause contraction of the muscles that of a second after the stimulus is over. can most effectively remove the pained part of the body Figure 55- 10 shows a typical myogram from a flexor away from the object causing the pain. Although this muscle during a flexor reflex. Within a few milliseconds principle applies to any part of the body, it is especially 692 noitcartnoc roxelF Chapter 55 Spinal Cord Motor Functions; the Cord Reflexes Duration of inhibitory stimulus Afterdischarge Duration of stimulus Duration of flexor reflex stimulus 0 1 2 3 0 1 2 3 4 Seconds Seconds Figure 55- 12. Myogram of a flexor reflex showing reciprocal inhibi- Figure 55- 11. Myogram of a crossed extensor reflex showing slow tion caused by an inhibitory stimulus from a stronger flexor reflex on onset but prolonged afterdischarge. the opposite side of the body. applicable to the limbs because of their highly devel- inhibition, and the neuronal circuit that causes this recip- oped flexor reflexes. rocal relation is called reciprocal innervation. Likewise, reciprocal relations often exist between the muscles on CROSSED EXTENSOR REFLEX the two sides of the body, as exemplified by the flexor and extensor muscle reflexes described earlier. About 0.2 to 0.5 second after a stimulus elicits a flexor Figure 55- 12 shows a typical example of reciprocal reflex in one limb, the opposite limb begins to extend. inhibition. In this instance, a moderate but prolonged This reflex is called the crossed extensor reflex. Extension flexor reflex is elicited from one limb of the body; while of the opposite limb can push the entire body away from this reflex is still being elicited, a stronger flexor reflex the object that is causing the painful stimulus in the with- is elicited in the limb on the opposite side of the body. drawn
