Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


being elicited, a stronger flexor reflex the object that is causing the painful stimulus in the with- is elicited in the limb on the opposite side of the body. drawn limb. This stronger reflex sends reciprocal inhibitory signals to Neuronal Mechanism of the Crossed Extensor Reflex. the first limb and depresses its degree of flexion. Finally, removal of the stronger reflex allows the original reflex to The right-h and portion of Figure 55- 9 shows the neu- reassume its previous intensity. ronal circuit responsible for the crossed extensor reflex, demonstrating that signals from sensory nerves cross to the opposite side of the cord to excite extensor muscles. REFLEXES OF POSTURE AND Because the crossed extensor reflex usually does not be- LOCOMOTION gin until 200 to 500 milliseconds after onset of the initial POSTURAL AND LOCOMOTIVE REFLEXES pain stimulus, it is certain that many interneurons are OF THE CORD involved in the circuit between the incoming sensory neuron and the motor neurons of the opposite side of the Positive Supportive Reaction. Pressure on the footpad cord responsible for the crossed extension. After the pain- of a decerebrate animal causes the limb to extend against ful stimulus is removed, the crossed extensor reflex has an the pressure applied to the foot. Indeed, this reflex is so even longer period of afterdischarge than does the flexor strong that if an animal whose spinal cord has been tran- reflex. Again, it is presumed that this prolonged afterdis- sected for several months—after the reflexes have be- charge results from reverberating circuits among the in- come exaggerated—is placed on its feet, the reflex often terneuronal cells. stiffens the limbs sufficiently to support the weight of Figure 55- 11 shows a typical myogram recorded from the body. This reflex is called the positive supportive re- a muscle involved in a crossed extensor reflex. This myo- action. gram demonstrates the relatively long latency before the The positive supportive reaction involves a complex reflex begins and the long afterdischarge at the end of the circuit in the interneurons similar to the circuits respon- stimulus. The prolonged afterdischarge is of benefit in sible for the flexor and crossed extensor reflexes. The holding the pained area of the body away from the painful locus of the pressure on the pad of the foot determines the object until other nervous reactions cause the entire body direction in which the limb will extend;
