Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the painful locus of the pressure on the pad of the foot determines the object until other nervous reactions cause the entire body direction in which the limb will extend; pressure on one to move away. side causes extension in that direction, an effect called the magnet reaction. This reaction helps keep an animal from RECIPROCAL INHIBITION AND falling to that side. RECIPROCAL INNERVATION Cord “Righting” Reflexes. When a spinal animal is laid We previously pointed out that excitation of one group on its side, it will make uncoordinated movements to try of muscles is often associated with inhibition of another to raise itself to the standing position. This reflex is called group. For instance, when a stretch reflex excites one the cord righting reflex. Such a reflex demonstrates that muscle, it often simultaneously inhibits the antago- some relatively complex reflexes associated with posture nist muscles, which is the phenomenon of reciprocal are integrated in the spinal cord. Indeed, an animal with 693 noitcartnoc rosnetxE noitcartnoc roxelF UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology a well- healed transected thoracic cord between the lev- tance up and down the cord between the forelimbs and els for forelimb and hindlimb innervation can right itself hindlimbs. Such a walking pattern is called a mark time from the lying position and even walk using its hindlimbs reflex. in addition to its forelimbs. In the case of an opossum with a similar transection of the thoracic cord, the walk- Scratch Reflex ing movements of the hindlimbs are hardly different from An especially important cord reflex in some animals is the those in a normal opossum, except that the hindlimb scratch reflex, which is initiated by an itch or tickle sensa- walking movements are not synchronized with those of tion. This reflex involves two functions: (1) a position sense the forelimbs. that allows the paw to find the exact point of irritation on the surface of the body; and (2) a to- and- fro scratching movement. STEPPING AND WALKING MOVEMENTS The position sense of the scratch reflex is a highly de- Rhythmical Stepping Movements of a Single Limb. veloped function. If a flea is crawling as far forward as the shoulder of a spinal animal, the hind paw can still find its Rhythmical stepping movements are frequently observed position, even though 19 muscles in the limb must be con- in the
