Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of a spinal animal, the hind paw can still find its Rhythmical stepping movements are frequently observed position, even though 19 muscles in the limb must be con- in the limbs of spinal animals. Indeed, even when the tracted simultaneously in a precise pattern to bring the paw lumbar portion of the spinal cord is separated from the to the position of the crawling flea. To make the reflex even remainder of the cord and a longitudinal section is made more complicated, when the flea crosses the midline, the down the center of the cord to block neuronal connec- first paw stops scratching and the opposite paw begins the tions between the two sides of the cord and between the to- and- fro motion and eventually finds the flea. two limbs, each hindlimb can still perform individual The to- and- fro movement, like the stepping movements stepping functions. Forward flexion of the limb is fol- of locomotion, involves reciprocal innervation circuits that lowed a second or so later by backward extension. Then cause oscillation. flexion occurs again, and the cycle is repeated over and Spinal Cord Reflexes That Cause Muscle Spasm over. In human beings, local muscle spasm is often observed. In This oscillation back and forth between flexor and many if not most instances, localized pain is the cause of extensor muscles can occur even after the sensory nerves the local spasm. have been cut, and it seems to result mainly from mutu- Muscle Spasm Resulting From a Broken Bone. One type ally reciprocal inhibition circuits within the matrix of the of clinically important spasm occurs in muscles that sur- cord, oscillating between the neurons controlling agonist round a broken bone. The spasm results from pain impuls- and antagonist muscles. es initiated from the broken edges of the bone, which cause The sensory signals from the footpads and from the the muscles that surround the area to contract tonically. position sensors around the joints play a strong role in Pain relief obtained by injecting a local anesthetic at the controlling foot pressure and frequency of stepping when broken edges of the bone relieves the spasm; a deep general the foot is allowed to walk along a surface. In fact, the anesthetic of the entire body, such as ether anesthesia, also cord mechanism for control of stepping can be even more relieves the spasm. Abdominal Muscle Spasm in Persons With
