Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the anesthetic of the entire body, such as ether anesthesia, also cord mechanism for control of stepping can be even more relieves the spasm. Abdominal Muscle Spasm in Persons With Peritonitis. complex. For instance, if the top of the foot encounters Another type of local spasm caused by cord reflexes is an obstruction during forward thrust, the forward thrust abdominal spasm resulting from irritation of the parietal will stop temporarily; then, in rapid sequence, the foot peritoneum by peritonitis. Here again, relief of the pain will be lifted higher and proceed forward to be placed caused by the peritonitis allows the spastic muscle to re- over the obstruction. This is the stumble reflex. Thus, the lax. The same type of spasm often occurs during surgical cord is an intelligent walking controller. operations; for instance, during abdominal operations, Reciprocal Stepping of Opposite Limbs. If the lum- pain impulses from the parietal peritoneum often cause the abdominal muscles to contract extensively, sometimes bar spinal cord is not split down its center, every time extruding the intestines through the surgical wound. For stepping occurs in the forward direction in one limb, this reason, deep anesthesia is usually required for intra- the opposite limb ordinarily moves backward. This ef- abdominal operations. fect results from reciprocal innervation between the two Muscle Cramps. Another type of local spasm is the limbs. typical muscle cramp. Any local irritating factor or meta- Diagonal Stepping of All Four Limbs—“Mark Time” bolic abnormality of a muscle, such as severe cold, lack Reflex. If a well-h ealed spinal animal (with spinal tran- of blood flow, or overexercise, can elicit pain or other sensory signals transmitted from the muscle to the spinal section in the neck above the forelimb area of the cord) cord, which in turn cause reflex feedback muscle contrac- is held up from the floor and its legs are allowed to dan- tion. The contraction is believed to stimulate the same gle, the stretch on the limbs occasionally elicits stepping sensory receptors even more, which causes the spinal reflexes that involve all four limbs. In general, stepping cord to increase the intensity of contraction. Thus, posi- occurs diagonally between the forelimbs and hindlimbs. tive feedback develops, so a small amount of initial irrita- This diagonal response is another manifestation of re- tion causes more and more contraction until a full- blown ciprocal innervation, this time occurring the entire dis-
