Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


amount of initial irrita- This diagonal response is another manifestation of re- tion causes more and more contraction until a full- blown ciprocal innervation, this time occurring the entire dis- muscle cramp ensues. 694 Chapter 55 Spinal Cord Motor Functions; the Cord Reflexes Autonomic Reflexes in the Spinal Cord nervous system activity becomes blocked almost to extinction. The pressure ordinarily returns to normal Many types of segmental autonomic reflexes are integrated in within a few days, even in humans. the spinal cord, most of which are discussed in other chapters. 2. All skeletal muscle reflexes integrated in the spinal cord Briefly, these reflexes include (1) changes in vascular tone re- are blocked during the initial stages of shock. In lower sulting from changes in local skin heat (see Chapter 74); (2) animals, a few hours to a few days are required for these sweating, which results from localized heat on the surface of reflexes to return to normal; in humans, 2 weeks to sev- the body (see Chapter 74); (3) intestinointestinal reflexes that eral months are sometimes required. In both animals control some motor functions of the gut (see Chapter 63); and humans, some reflexes may eventually become hy- (4) peritoneointestinal reflexes that inhibit gastrointestinal perexcitable, particularly if a few facilitatory pathways motility in response to peritoneal irritation (see Chapter 67); remain intact between the brain and the cord while the and (5) evacuation reflexes for emptying the full bladder (see remainder of the spinal cord is transected. The first re- Chapter 26) or the colon (see Chapter 64). In addition, all the flexes to return are the stretch reflexes, followed in or- segmental reflexes can at times be elicited simultaneously in der by the progressively more complex reflexes: flexor the form of the so-c alled mass reflex, described next. Mass Reflex. In a spinal animal or person, sometimes reflexes, postural antigravity reflexes, and remnants of stepping reflexes. the spinal cord suddenly becomes excessively active, caus- 3. The sacral reflexes for control of bladder and colon evac- ing massive discharge in large portions of the cord. The uation are suppressed in people for the first few weeks usual stimulus that causes this excess activity is a strong after cord transection, but in most cases they eventually pain stimulus to the skin or excessive filling of a viscus, such return. These effects are discussed in Chapters 26 and 67. as overdistention
