Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


as 40 mm Hg—thus demonstrating that sympathetic 2016. 695 UNIT XI CHAPTER 5 6 Cortical and Brain Stem Control of Motor Function Most “voluntary” movements initiated by the cerebral near the apex of the brain; and the leg and foot areas, in cortex are achieved when the cortex activates “patterns” the part of the primary motor cortex that dips into the of function stored in lower brain areas—the cord, brain longitudinal fissure. This topographical organization is stem, basal ganglia, and cerebellum. These lower centers, demonstrated even more graphically in Figure 56- 2, in turn, send specific control signals to the muscles. which shows the degrees of representation of the different For a few types of movements, however, the cortex has muscle areas as mapped by Penfield and Rasmussen. This almost a direct pathway to the anterior motor neurons of mapping was done by electrically stimulating the different the cord, bypassing some motor centers on the way. This areas of the motor cortex in human beings were undergo- is especially true for control of the fine dexterous move- ing neurosurgery. Note that more than half of the entire ments of the fingers and hands. This chapter and Chapter primary motor cortex is concerned with controlling the 57 explain the interplay among the different motor areas muscles of the hands and the muscles of speech. Point of the brain and spinal cord to provide overall synthesis of stimulation in these hand and speech motor areas on voluntary motor function. rare occasion causes contraction of a single muscle, but most often, stimulation contracts a group of muscles. To MOTOR CORTEX AND express this in another way, excitation of a single motor CORTICOSPINAL TRACT cortex neuron usually excites a specific movement rather than one specific muscle. To do this, it excites a “pattern” Figure 56- 1 shows the functional areas of the cerebral of separate muscles, each of which contributes its own cortex. Anterior to the central cortical sulcus, occupying direction and strength of muscle movement. approximately the posterior one third of the frontal lobes, is the motor cortex. Posterior to the central sulcus is the somatosensory cortex (an area discussed in detail in earlier Motor Sensory chapters), which feeds the motor cortex many of the sig- Primary nals that initiate motor activities. Supplementary motor The motor cortex is divided into three subareas, each area cortex Somatic area 1 of which has its own
