Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the sig- Primary nals that initiate motor activities. Supplementary motor The motor cortex is divided into three subareas, each area cortex Somatic area 1 of which has its own topographical representation of Somatic Legs association muscle groups and specific motor functions: (1) the pri- Feet area mary motor cortex; (2) the premotor area; and (3) the Trunk supplementary motor area. Arm 7 PRIMARY MOTOR CORTEX 4 6 Hand 5 The primary motor cortex, shown in Figure 56- 1, lies in 1 the first convolution of the frontal lobes anterior to the Face 2, central sulcus. It begins laterally in the sylvian fissure, 3, Mouth spreads superiorly to the uppermost portion of the brain, and then dips deep into the longitudinal fissure. (This area is the same as area 4 in Brodmann’s classification of the brain cortical areas, shown in Figure 48- 5.) Premotor Figure 56- 1 lists the approximate topographical repre- area sentations of the different muscle areas of the body in the primary motor cortex, beginning with the face and mouth Figure 56- 1. Motor and somatosensory functional areas of the cere- region near the sylvian fissure; the arm and hand area, in bral cortex. The numbers 4, 5, 6, and 7 are Brodmann’s cortical areas, the midportion of the primary motor cortex; the trunk, as explained in Chapter 48. 697 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Supplemental Primary and premotor motor areas cortex Hips Legs Feet Toe A ee n sK n kl ep iH Hand Little Efin Rig yne Mr g i ef di ldn l I ig e ne dr f di n eg x a e fr i nn Tg dhe r u eN Fm B yb e ar ec co bk ew all eyeC moH n oH e t vraa eadn mla d r t eo es nt rk a ta si t ll il os n S CTV wo hJo aL n eNe acc lk wgi lT wp ar ouu is l w nn i ek zA gTr iF ah nim uns t gg im oe brs n C ofh wo Eoi yc r ee ds fixation Lips n o ati SwalloT won ing gJ ua ew Vocaliz W (Bo rr od c f ao ’srm aa reti ao )n Mastication Figure 56- 3. Representation of the different muscles of the body in Salivation the motor
