Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ew Vocaliz W (Bo rr od c f ao ’srm aa reti ao )n Mastication Figure 56- 3. Representation of the different muscles of the body in Salivation the motor cortex and location of other cortical areas responsible for specific types of motor movements. Figure 56- 2. Degree of representation of the different muscles of studies indicate that these neurons transform sensory the body in the motor cortex. (Modified from Penfield W, Rasmussen representations of acts that are heard or seen into motor T: The Cerebral Cortex of Man: A Clinical Study of Localization of Function. New York: Hafner, 1968.) representations of these acts. Many neurophysiologists believe that these mirror neurons may be important for PREMOTOR AREA understanding the actions of other people and for learn- ing new skills by imitation. Thus, the premotor cortex, The premotor area, also shown in Figure 56- 1, lies 1 to basal ganglia, thalamus, and primary motor cortex consti- 3 centimeters anterior to the primary motor cortex. It tute a complex overall system for the control of complex extends inferiorly into the sylvian fissure and superiorly patterns of coordinated muscle activity. into the longitudinal fissure, where it abuts the supple- SUPPLEMENTARY MOTOR AREA mentary motor area, which has functions similar to those of the premotor area. The topographical organization of The supplementary motor area has yet another topographi- the premotor cortex is roughly the same as that of the cal organization for the control of motor function. It lies primary motor cortex, with the mouth and face areas mainly in the longitudinal fissure but extends a few centime- located most laterally; as one moves upward, the hand, ters onto the superior frontal cortex. Contractions elicited by arm, trunk, and leg areas are encountered. stimulating this area are often bilateral rather than unilateral. Nerve signals generated in the premotor area cause For example, stimulation frequently leads to bilateral grasp- much more complex “patterns” of movement than the ing movements of both hands simultaneously; these move- discrete patterns generated in the primary motor cortex. ments are perhaps rudiments of the hand functions required For example, the pattern may be to position the shoul- for climbing. In general, this area functions in concert with ders and arms so that the hands are properly oriented the premotor area to provide body- wide attitudinal move- to perform specific tasks. To achieve these results, the ments, fixation movements of the
