Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


so that the hands are properly oriented the premotor area to provide body- wide attitudinal move- to perform specific tasks. To achieve these results, the ments, fixation movements of the different segments of the most anterior part of the premotor area first develops a body, positional movements of the head and eyes, and so “motor image” of the total muscle movement that is to be forth, as background for the finer motor control of the arms performed. Then, in the posterior premotor cortex, this and hands by the premotor area and primary motor cortex. image excites each successive pattern of muscle activity required to achieve the image. This posterior part of the SOME SPECIALIZED AREAS OF MOTOR premotor cortex sends its signals either directly to the pri- CONTROL FOUND IN THE HUMAN mary motor cortex to excite specific muscles or, often, by MOTOR CORTEX way of the basal ganglia and thalamus back to the primary motor cortex. A few highly specialized motor regions of the human cere- A special class of neurons called mirror neurons bral cortex (shown in Figure 56- 3) control specific motor becomes active when a person performs a specific motor functions. These regions have been localized either by task or when he or she observes the same task performed electrical stimulation or by noting the loss of motor func- by others. Thus, the activity of these neurons “mirrors” tion when destructive lesions occur in specific cortical the behavior of another person as though the observer areas. Some of the more important regions are described was performing the specific motor task. Brain imaging in the following sections. 698 knurT redluohS woblE tsirW CHAPTER 56 Cortical and Brain Stem Control of Motor Function Broca’s Area (Motor Speech Area). Figure 56- 3 shows Motor cortex a premotor area labeled “word formation” lying immedi- ately anterior to the primary motor cortex and immedi- ately above the sylvian fissure. This region is called Broca’s area. Damage to it does not prevent a person from vo- calizing but makes it impossible for the person to speak Corpus callosum whole words rather than uncoordinated utterances or an occasional simple word such as “no” or “yes.” A closely as- Posterior limb of sociated cortical area also causes appropriate respiratory internal capsule function, so respiratory activation of the vocal cords can occur simultaneously with the movements of the mouth and tongue during speech. Thus, the
