Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


area also causes appropriate respiratory internal capsule function, so respiratory activation of the vocal cords can occur simultaneously with the movements of the mouth and tongue during speech. Thus, the premotor neuronal activities related to speech are highly complex. “Voluntary” Eye Movement Field. In the premotor area immediately above Broca’s area is a locus for controlling voluntary eye movements. Damage to this area prevents a person from voluntarily moving the eyes toward different Basis pedunculi of mesencephalon objects. Instead, the eyes tend to lock involuntarily onto specific objects, an effect controlled by signals from the occipital visual cortex, as explained in Chapter 52. This frontal area also controls eyelid movements such as blink- Longitudinal ing. fascicles of pons Head Rotation Area. Slightly higher in the motor associ- ation area, electrical stimulation elicits head rotation. This area is closely associated with the eye movement field; it directs the head toward different objects. Pyramid of medulla oblongata Area for Hand Skills. In the premotor area immediately anterior to the primary motor cortex for the hands and fingers is a region that is important for “hand skills.” That Lateral corticospinal tract is, when tumors or other lesions cause destruction in this Ventral corticospinal tract area, hand movements become uncoordinated and non- Figure 56- 4. Corticospinal (pyramidal) tract. (Modified from Ran- purposeful, a condition called motor apraxia. son SW, Clark SL: Anatomy of the Nervous System. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1959.) TRANSMISSION OF SIGNALS FROM THE MOTOR CORTEX TO THE MUSCLES nucleus and the putamen of the basal ganglia) and then downward through the brain stem, forming the pyramids Motor signals are transmitted directly from the cortex to of the medulla. Most of the pyramidal fibers then cross in the spinal cord through the corticospinal tract and indi- the lower medulla to the opposite side and descend into rectly through multiple accessory pathways that involve the the lateral corticospinal tracts of the cord, finally termi- basal ganglia, cerebellum, and various nuclei of the brain nating principally on the interneurons in the intermediate stem. In general, the direct pathways are concerned with regions of the cord gray matter. A few terminate on sen- discrete and detailed movements, especially of the distal sory relay neurons in the dorsal horn, and a very few ter- segments of the limbs, particularly the hands and fingers. minate directly on the anterior motor neurons that cause muscle contraction. Corticospinal (Pyramidal) Tract
