Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


dorsal horn, and a very few ter- segments of the limbs, particularly the hands and fingers. minate directly on the anterior motor neurons that cause muscle contraction. Corticospinal (Pyramidal) Tract A few of the fibers do not cross to the opposite side The most important output pathway from the motor in the medulla but pass ipsilaterally down the cord in the cortex is the corticospinal tract, also called the pyrami- ventral corticospinal tracts. Many, if not most, of these dal tract, shown in Figure 56- 4. The corticospinal tract fibers eventually cross to the opposite side of the cord originates about 30% from the primary motor cortex, 30% either in the neck or in the upper thoracic region. These from the premotor and supplementary motor areas, and fibers may be concerned with control of bilateral postural 40% from the somatosensory areas posterior to the cen- movements by the supplementary motor cortex. tral sulcus. The most impressive fibers in the pyramidal tract are a After leaving the cortex, it passes through the poste- population of large myelinated fibers with a mean diam- rior limb of the internal capsule (between the caudate eter of 16 micrometers. These fibers originate from giant 699 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology pyramidal cells, called Betz cells, that are found only in 2. Subcortical fibers that arrive through the corpus callo- the primary motor cortex. The Betz cells are about 60 sum from the opposite cerebral hemisphere. These fib- micrometers in diameter, and their fibers transmit nerve ers connect corresponding areas of the cortices in the two sides of the brain. impulses to the spinal cord at a velocity of about 70 m/sec, 3. Somatosensory fibers that arrive directly from the ven- the most rapid rate of transmission of any signals from the trobasal complex of the thalamus. These fibers relay brain to the cord. There are about 34,000 of these large mainly cutaneous tactile signals and joint and muscle Betz cell fibers in each corticospinal tract. The total num- signals from the peripheral body. ber of fibers in each corticospinal tract is more than 1 mil- 4. Tracts from the ventrolateral and ventroanterior nuclei lion, so these large fibers represent only 3% of the total. of the thalamus, which in turn receive signals from the The other 97% are mainly fibers smaller than 4 microm- cerebellum and basal ganglia.
