Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


represent only 3% of the total. of the thalamus, which in turn receive signals from the The other 97% are mainly fibers smaller than 4 microm- cerebellum and basal ganglia. These tracts provide sig- eters in diameter that conduct background tonic signals nals that are necessary for coordination among the mo- to the motor areas of the cord. tor control functions of the motor cortex, basal ganglia, and cerebellum. Other Fiber Pathways From the Motor Cortex 5. Fibers from the intralaminar nuclei of the thalamus. These fibers control the general level of excitability of The motor cortex gives rise to large numbers of additional, the motor cortex in the same way they control the gen- mainly small fibers that go to deep regions in the cerebrum eral level of excitability of most other regions of the cer- and brain stem, including the following: ebral cortex. 1. The axons from the giant Betz cells send short collat- erals back to the cortex. These collaterals are believed THE RED NUCLEUS SERVES AS to inhibit adjacent regions of the cortex when the Betz AN ALTERNATIVE PATHWAY FOR cells discharge, thereby “sharpening” the boundaries of the excitatory signal. TRANSMITTING CORTICAL SIGNALS TO 2. A large number of fibers pass from the motor cortex THE SPINAL CORD into the caudate nucleus and putamen. From there, ad- ditional pathways extend into the brain stem and spinal The red nucleus, located in the mesencephalon, functions cord, as discussed in the next chapter, mainly to control in close association with the corticospinal tract. As shown body postural muscle contractions. in Figure 56- 5, it receives a large number of direct fibers 3. A moderate number of motor fibers pass to red nuclei of from the primary motor cortex through the corticorubral the midbrain. From these nuclei, additional fibers pass tract, as well as branching fibers from the corticospinal down the cord through the rubrospinal tract. tract as it passes through the mesencephalon. These fibers 4. A moderate number of motor fibers deviate into the re- synapse in the lower portion of the red nucleus, the mag- ticular substance and vestibular nuclei of the brain stem; nocellular portion, which contains large neurons similar from there, signals go to the cord via reticulospinal and in size to the Betz cells in the motor cortex. These large vestibulospinal tracts, and others go to the cerebellum neurons then give rise to the
