Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cord via reticulospinal and in size to the Betz cells in the motor cortex. These large vestibulospinal tracts, and others go to the cerebellum neurons then give rise to the rubrospinal tract, which via reticulocerebellar and vestibulocerebellar tracts. crosses to the opposite side in the lower brain stem and 5. A tremendous number of motor fibers synapse in the pontile nuclei, which give rise to the pontocerebellar fib- follows a course immediately adjacent and anterior to the ers, carrying signals into the cerebellar hemispheres. corticospinal tract into the lateral columns of the spinal 6. Collaterals also terminate in the inferior olivary nuclei, cord. and from there, secondary olivocerebellar fibers trans- mit signals to multiple areas of the cerebellum. Motor cortex Thus, the basal ganglia, brain stem, and cerebellum all receive strong motor signals from the corticospinal system every time a signal is transmitted down the spinal cord to Corticorubral cause a motor activity. tract Incoming Sensory Fiber Pathways to the Motor Cortex The functions of the motor cortex are controlled mainly by nerve signals from the somatosensory system but also, to some degree, from other sensory systems such as hearing and vision. Once the sensory information is received, the Interpositus Red nucleus motor cortex operates in association with the basal ganglia nucleus and cerebellum to excite appropriate motor actions. The Dentate more important incoming fiber pathways to the motor cor- nucleus Reticular formation tex are the following: Cerebellum 1. Subcortical fibers from adjacent regions of the cerebral Rubrospinal tract cortex, especially from (a) the somatosensory areas of the parietal cortex, (b) the adjacent areas of the frontal cortex anterior to the motor cortex, and (c) the visual Figure 56- 5. The corticorubrospinal pathway for motor control, also and auditory cortices. showing the relation of this pathway to the cerebellum. 700 CHAPTER 56 Cortical and Brain Stem Control of Motor Function The rubrospinal fibers terminate mostly on the inter- from the cortical surface. The input signals all enter via neurons of the intermediate areas of the cord gray mat- layers 2 through 4, and the sixth layer gives rise mainly to ter, along with the corticospinal fibers, but some of the fibers that communicate with other regions of the cere- rubrospinal fibers terminate directly on anterior motor bral cortex. neurons, along with some corticospinal fibers. The red Each Column of Neurons Functions as an Integrative nucleus also has close connections with
