Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fibers terminate directly on anterior motor bral cortex. neurons, along with some corticospinal fibers. The red Each Column of Neurons Functions as an Integrative nucleus also has close connections with the cerebellum, Processing System. The neurons of each column oper- similar to the connections between the motor cortex and ate as an integrative processing system, using information the cerebellum. from multiple input sources to determine the output re- The Corticorubrospinal System Is an Accessory Path- sponse from the column. In addition, each column can way for Transmitting Relatively Discrete Signals function as an amplifying system to stimulate large num- From the Motor Cortex to the Spinal Cord. The mag- bers of pyramidal fibers to the same muscle or to synergis- nocellular portion of the red nucleus has a somatographic tic muscles simultaneously. This ability is important be- representation of all the muscles of the body, as does the cause stimulation of a single pyramidal cell seldom excites motor cortex. Therefore, stimulation of a single point in a muscle. Usually, 50 to 100 pyramidal cells need to be this portion of the red nucleus causes contraction of ei- excited simultaneously or in rapid succession to achieve ther a single muscle or a small group of muscles. However, definitive muscle contraction. the fineness of representation of the different muscles is Dynamic and Static Signals Are Transmitted by the far less developed than in the motor cortex, especially in Pyramidal Neurons. If a strong signal is sent to a mus- human beings, who have relatively small red nuclei. cle to cause initial rapid contraction, then a much weaker The corticorubrospinal pathway serves as an accessory continuing signal can maintain the contraction for long route for transmission of relatively discrete signals from periods thereafter. This process is the usual manner in the motor cortex to the spinal cord. When the corticospi- which excitation is provided to cause muscle contrac- nal fibers are destroyed but the corticorubrospinal path- tions. To provide this excitation, each column of cells way is intact, discrete movements can still occur, except excites two populations of pyramidal cell neurons, one that the movements for fine control of the fingers and called dynamic neurons and the other static neurons. The hands are considerably impaired. Wrist movements are dynamic neurons are excited at a high rate for a short pe- still functional, which is not the case when the corticoru- riod at the
