Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


considerably impaired. Wrist movements are dynamic neurons are excited at a high rate for a short pe- still functional, which is not the case when the corticoru- riod at the beginning of a contraction, causing the initial brospinal pathway is also blocked. rapid development of force. The static neurons then fire at Therefore, the pathway through the red nucleus to the a much slower rate, but they continue firing at this slow spinal cord is associated with the corticospinal system. rate to maintain the force of contraction as long as the Furthermore, the rubrospinal tract lies in the lateral col- contraction is required. umns of the spinal cord, along with the corticospinal tract, The neurons of the red nucleus have similar dynamic and terminates on the interneurons and motor neurons and static characteristics, except that a greater percentage that control the more distal muscles of the limbs. There- of dynamic neurons is in the red nucleus and a greater fore, the corticospinal and rubrospinal tracts together are percentage of static neurons is in the primary motor cor- called the lateral motor system of the cord, in contradis- tex. This may be related to the fact that the red nucleus tinction to a vestibuloreticulospinal system, which lies is closely allied with the cerebellum, and the cerebellum mainly medially in the cord and is called the medial motor plays an important role in rapid initiation of muscle con- system of the cord, as discussed later in this chapter. traction, as explained in the next chapter. EXCITATION OF THE SPINAL CORD Somatosensory Feedback to the Motor MOTOR CONTROL AREAS BY THE Cortex Helps Control Precision of Muscle PRIMARY MOTOR CORTEX AND RED Contraction NUCLEUS When nerve signals from the motor cortex cause a mus- Neurons in the Motor Cortex Are Arranged in Vertical cle to contract, somatosensory signals return all the way Columns. In Chapters 48 and 52, we pointed out that the from the activated region of the body to the neurons in cells in the somatosensory cortex and visual cortex are organ- the motor cortex that are initiating the action. Most of ized in vertical columns of cells. The cells of the motor cortex these somatosensory signals arise in the following: (1) the are also organized in vertical columns a fraction of a millim- muscle spindles; (2) the muscle tendon organs; or (3) the eter in diameter, with thousands of neurons
