Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


(1) the are also organized in vertical columns a fraction of a millim- muscle spindles; (2) the muscle tendon organs; or (3) the eter in diameter, with thousands of neurons in each column. tactile receptors of the skin overlying the muscles. Each column of cells functions as a unit, usually stim- These somatic signals often cause positive feedback ulating a group of synergistic muscles, but sometimes enhancement of the muscle contraction in the following stimulating just a single muscle. Also, each column has ways. In the case of the muscle spindles, if the fusimotor six distinct layers of cells, as is true throughout nearly muscle fibers in the spindles contract more than the large all the cerebral cortex. The pyramidal cells that give rise skeletal muscle fibers contract, the central portions of the to the corticospinal fibers all lie in the fifth layer of cells spindles become stretched and, therefore, excited. Signals 701 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology from these spindles then return rapidly to the pyramidal helping to damp any oscillations of the motor movements cells in the motor cortex signal them that the large muscle initiated from the brain. This reflex probably also provides fibers have not contracted enough. The pyramidal cells at least part of the motive power required to cause mus- further excite the muscle, helping its contraction to catch cle contractions when the intrafusal fibers of the muscle up with the contraction of the muscle spindles. In the case spindles contract more than the large skeletal muscle fib- of the tactile receptors, if the muscle contraction causes ers, thus eliciting reflex “servo-a ssist” stimulation of the compression of the skin against an object, such as com- muscle, in addition to the direct stimulation by the corti- pression of the fingers around an object being grasped, cospinal fibers. the signals from the skin receptors can, if necessary, cause Also, when a brain signal excites a muscle, it is usu- further excitation of the muscles and, therefore, increase ally unnecessary to transmit an inverse signal to relax the tightness of the hand grasp. the antagonist muscle at the same time; this relaxation is achieved by the reciprocal innervation circuit that is Stimulation of the Spinal Motor Neurons always present in the cord for coordinating the function Figure 56- 6 shows a cross section of a spinal cord segment of antagonistic
