Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is Stimulation of the Spinal Motor Neurons always present in the cord for coordinating the function Figure 56- 6 shows a cross section of a spinal cord segment of antagonistic pairs of muscles. demonstrating the following: (1) multiple motor and sen- Finally, other cord reflex mechanisms, such as with- sorimotor control tracts entering the cord segment; and drawal, stepping and walking, scratching, and postural (2) a representative anterior motor neuron in the middle of mechanisms, can each be activated by “command” signals the anterior horn gray matter. The corticospinal tract and from the brain. Thus, simple command signals from the the rubrospinal tract lie in the dorsal portions of the lateral brain can initiate many normal motor activities, particu- white columns. Their fibers terminate mainly on interneu- larly for such functions as walking and attaining different rons in the intermediate area of the cord gray matter. postural attitudes of the body. In the cervical enlargement of the cord where the hands and fingers are represented, large numbers of both corti- Effect of Lesions in the Motor Cortex or in the Corti- cospinal and rubrospinal fibers also terminate directly on cospinal Pathway the anterior motor neurons, allowing a direct route from Reduced Brain Blood Supply Caused by a Stroke. The the brain to activate muscle contraction. This mechanism motor control system can be damaged by the common ab- is in keeping with the fact that the primary motor cortex normality called a “stroke.” A stroke is caused by either a has an extremely high degree of representation for fine ruptured blood vessel that hemorrhages into the brain or control of hand, finger, and thumb actions. by thrombosis of one of the major arteries supplying blood to the brain. In either case, the result is loss of blood supply Patterns of Movement Elicited by Spinal Cord Cent- to the cortex or to the corticospinal tract where it passes ers. From Chapter 55, recall that the spinal cord can through the internal capsule between the caudate nucleus provide certain specific reflex patterns of movement in and the putamen. Removal of the Primary Motor Cortex (Area Pyrami- response to sensory nerve stimulation. Many of these same patterns are also important when the cord’s ante- dalis). Surgical removal of a portion of the primary mo- rior motor neurons are excited by signals from the brain. tor cortex—the area that contains the giant Betz pyramidal cells—causes
