Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


dalis). Surgical removal of a portion of the primary mo- rior motor neurons are excited by signals from the brain. tor cortex—the area that contains the giant Betz pyramidal cells—causes varying degrees of paralysis of the represent- For example, the stretch reflex is functional at all times, ed muscles. If the sublying caudate nucleus and adjacent premotor and supplementary motor areas are not dam- Sensory neurons aged, gross postural and limb “fixation” movements can still occur, but there is loss of voluntary control of discrete movements of the distal segments of the limbs, especially of Propriospinal tract the hands and fingers. This does not mean that the hand Interneurons and finger muscles cannot contract; rather, the ability to control the fine movements is gone. From these observa- Corticospinal tract tions, one can conclude that the area pyramidalis is essen- from pyramidal cells of cortex tial for voluntary initiation of finely controlled movements, especially of the hands and fingers. Rubrospinal tract Muscle Spasticity Caused by Lesions That Damage Large Reticulospinal tract Areas Adjacent to the Motor Cortex. The primary motor Anterior motor neuron cortex normally exerts a continual tonic stimulatory effect on the motor neurons of the spinal cord; when this stimu- Motor nerve latory effect is removed, hypotonia results. Most lesions of Tectospinal and the motor cortex, especially those caused by a stroke, involve reticulospinal tracts not only the primary motor cortex but also adjacent parts of Vestibulospinal and the brain, such as the basal ganglia. In these cases, muscle reticulospinal tracts spasm almost invariably occurs in the afflicted muscle areas Figure 56-6 . Convergence of different motor control pathways on on the opposite side of the body (because the motor path- the anterior motor neurons. ways cross to the opposite side). This spasm results mainly 702 CHAPTER 56 Cortical and Brain Stem Control of Motor Function from damage to accessory pathways from the nonpyramidal portions of the motor cortex. These pathways normally in- hibit the vestibular and reticular brain stem motor nuclei. Pontine reticular nuclei When these nuclei cease their state of inhibition (i.e., are “disinhibited”), they become spontaneously active and cause excessive spastic tone in the involved muscles, as we discuss more fully later in this chapter. This spasticity is that which normally accompanies a “stroke” in a human being. CONTROL OF MOTOR FUNCTIONS BY Vestibular nuclei THE BRAIN STEM The brain stem consists of the medulla, pons,
