Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


spasticity is that which normally accompanies a “stroke” in a human being. CONTROL OF MOTOR FUNCTIONS BY Vestibular nuclei THE BRAIN STEM The brain stem consists of the medulla, pons, and mes- Medullary reticular nuclei encephalon (or midbrain). In one sense, it is an extension of the spinal cord upward into the cranial cavity because it contains motor and sensory nuclei that perform motor and sensory functions for the face and head regions in the same way that the spinal cord performs these functions from the neck down. In another sense, however, the brain stem is its own master because it provides many special control functions, such as the following: Figure 56- 7. Locations of the reticular and vestibular nuclei in the 1. Control of respiration brain stem. 2. Control of the cardiovascular system 3. Partial control of gastrointestinal function lospinal tract in the anterior column of the cord, as shown 4. Control of many stereotyped movements of the in Figure 56- 8. The fibers of this pathway terminate on body the medial anterior motor neurons that excite the axial 5. Control of equilibrium muscles of the body, which support the body against grav- 6. Control of eye movements ity—that is, the muscles of the vertebral column and the Finally, the brain stem serves as a way station for “com- extensor muscles of the limbs. mand signals” from higher neural centers. Many of these The pontine reticular nuclei have a high degree of functions are discussed in other chapters in this text. In natural excitability. In addition, they receive strong excit- the following sections, we discuss the role of the brain atory signals from the vestibular nuclei, as well as from stem in controlling whole- body movement and equilib- deep nuclei of the cerebellum. Therefore, when the pon- rium. Especially important for these purposes are the tine reticular excitatory system is unopposed by the med- brain stem’s reticular nuclei and vestibular nuclei. ullary reticular system, it causes powerful excitation of SUPPORT OF THE BODY AGAINST antigravity muscles throughout the body, so much so that GRAVITY—ROLES OF THE RETICULAR four- legged animals can be placed in a standing position, AND VESTIBULAR NUCLEI supporting the body against gravity without any signals from higher levels of the brain. Figure 56- 7 shows the locations of the reticular and ves- tibular nuclei in the brain stem. Medullary Reticular System Transmit Inhibitory Sig- nals. The
