Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


higher levels of the brain. Figure 56- 7 shows the locations of the reticular and ves- tibular nuclei in the brain stem. Medullary Reticular System Transmit Inhibitory Sig- nals. The medullary reticular nuclei transmit inhibitory Excitatory- Inhibitory Antagonism signals to the same antigravity anterior motor neurons via Between Pontine and Medullary Reticular a different tract, the medullary reticulospinal tract, locat- Nuclei ed in the lateral column of the cord, as also shown in Fig- The reticular nuclei are divided into two major groups: (1) ure 56- 8. The medullary reticular nuclei receive strong pontine reticular nuclei, located slightly posteriorly and lat- input collaterals from the following: (1) the corticospinal erally in the pons and extending into the mesencephalon; tract; (2) the rubrospinal tract; and (3) other motor path- and (2) medullary reticular nuclei, which extend through ways. These tracts and pathways normally activate the the entire medulla, lying ventrally and medially near the medullary reticular inhibitory system to counterbalance midline. These two sets of nuclei function mainly antagonis- the excitatory signals from the pontine reticular system, tically to each other, with the pontine exciting the antigrav- so under normal conditions the body muscles are not ab- ity muscles and the medullary relaxing these same muscles. normally tense. Yet, some signals from higher areas of the brain can Pontine Reticular System Transmits Excitatory Sig- “disinhibit” the medullary system when the brain wishes nals. The pontine reticular nuclei transmit excitatory sig- to excite the pontine system to cause standing. At other nals downward into the cord through the pontine reticu- times, excitation of the medullary reticular system can 703 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology inhibit antigravity muscles in certain portions of the body Lacking this input, the medullary reticular inhibitor to allow those portions to perform special motor activi- system becomes nonfunctional, full overactivity of the ties. The excitatory and inhibitory reticular nuclei consti- pontine excitatory system occurs, and rigidity develops. tute a controllable system that is manipulated by motor We shall see later that other causes of rigidity occur in signals from the cerebral cortex and elsewhere to provide other neuromotor diseases, especially lesions of the basal necessary background muscle contractions for standing ganglia. against gravity and to inhibit appropriate groups of mus- cles as needed so that other functions can be performed. VESTIBULAR SENSATIONS AND Role of the Vestibular Nuclei to Excite the
