Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


against gravity and to inhibit appropriate groups of mus- cles as needed so that other functions can be performed. VESTIBULAR SENSATIONS AND Role of the Vestibular Nuclei to Excite the MAINTENANCE OF EQUILIBRIUM Antigravity Muscles VESTIBULAR APPARATUS All the vestibular nuclei, shown in Figure 56- 7, function in association with the pontine reticular nuclei to control The vestibular apparatus, shown in Figure 56- 9, is the the antigravity muscles. The vestibular nuclei transmit sensory organ for detecting sensations of equilibrium. It is strong excitatory signals to the antigravity muscles via encased in a system of bony tubes and chambers located the lateral and medial vestibulospinal tracts in the ante- in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, called the rior columns of the spinal cord, as shown in Figure 56- 8. bony labyrinth. Within this system are membranous Without this support of the vestibular nuclei, the pontine tubes and chambers called the membranous labyrinth. reticular system would lose much of its excitation of the The membranous labyrinth is the functional part of the axial antigravity muscles. vestibular apparatus. The specific role of the vestibular nuclei, however, is The top of Figure 56- 9 shows the membranous to selectively control the excitatory signals to the different labyrinth. It is composed mainly of the cochlea (ductus antigravity muscles to maintain equilibrium in response to signals from the vestibular apparatus. We discuss this concept more fully later in this chapter. Anterior Ampullae The Decerebrate Animal Develops Spastic Rigidity. Utricle When the brain stem of an animal is sectioned below the Maculae and statoconia midlevel of the mesencephalon but the pontine and med- ullary reticular systems, as well as the vestibular system, Semi- circular are left intact, a condition called decerebrate rigidity de- canals velops. This rigidity does not occur in all the muscles of the body, but it does occur in the antigravity muscles— the muscles of the neck and trunk and the extensors of the legs. The cause of decerebrate rigidity is blockage of nor- mally strong input to the medullary reticular nuclei from Saccule Ductus the cerebral cortex, the red nuclei, and the basal ganglia. Posterior cochlearis Crista ampullaris Ductus endolymphaticus MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH Gelatinous Statoconia mass of Medullary reticulospinal cupula Gelatinous tract Hair tufts layer Hair tufts Hair cells Hair cells Lateral vestibulospinal tract Nerve fibers Nerve Medial Pontine reticulospinal tract fibers vestibulospinal Sustentacular cells Sustentacular cells tract CRISTA AMPULLARIS AND
