Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tract Hair tufts layer Hair tufts Hair cells Hair cells Lateral vestibulospinal tract Nerve fibers Nerve Medial Pontine reticulospinal tract fibers vestibulospinal Sustentacular cells Sustentacular cells tract CRISTA AMPULLARIS AND MACULA Figure 56- 8. Vestibulospinal and reticulospinal tracts descending in the spinal cord to excite (solid lines) or inhibit (dashed lines) the ante- Figure 56- 9. Membranous labyrinth and organization of the crista rior motor neurons that control the body’s axial musculature. ampullaris and the macula. 704 CHAPTER 56 Cortical and Brain Stem Control of Motor Function cochlearis), three semicircular canals, and two large cham- Kinocilium bers, the utricle and saccule. The cochlea is the major sen- sory organ for hearing (see Chapter 53) and has little to do Stereocilia with equilibrium. However, the semicircular canals, the utricle, and the saccule are all integral parts of the equilib- rium mechanism. Filamentous attachments “Maculae”—Sensory Organs of the Utricle and Sac- cule for Detecting Orientation of the Head With Re- spect to Gravity. Located on the inside surface of each utricle and saccule, shown in the top diagram of Figure 56- 9, is a small sensory area slightly greater than 2 mil- limeters in diameter called a macula. The macula of the utricle lies mainly in the horizontal plane on the inferior surface of the utricle and plays an important role in deter- mining orientation of the head when the head is upright. Conversely, the macula of the saccule is located mainly in a vertical plane and signals head orientation when the person is lying down. Each macula is covered by a gelatinous layer in which many small calcium carbonate crystals called statoconia are embedded. Also in the macula are thousands of hair cells, one of which is shown in Figure 56- 10; these hair cells project cilia up into the gelatinous layer. The bases and sides of the hair cells synapse with sensory endings of the vestibular nerve. The calcified statoconia have a specific gravity two to three times the specific gravity of the surrounding fluid and tissues. The weight of the statoconia bends the cilia in Nerve fiber the direction of gravitational pull. Directional Sensitivity of the Hair Cells—Kinocilium. Each hair cell has about 100 small cilia called stereocilia, plus one large cilium, the kinocilium, as shown in Figure Figure 56- 10. A hair cell of the equilibrium apparatus and its syn- 56- 10. The kinocilium is always located to
