Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


one large cilium, the kinocilium, as shown in Figure Figure 56- 10. A hair cell of the equilibrium apparatus and its syn- 56- 10. The kinocilium is always located to one side, and apses with the vestibular nerve. the stereocilia become progressively shorter toward the other side of the cell. Minute filamentous attachments, al- bent toward the kinocilium, the impulse traffic increases, most invisible even to the electron microscope, connect often to several hundred per second; conversely, bending the tip of each stereocilium to the next longer stereocili- the cilia away from the kinocilium decreases the impulse um and, finally, to the kinocilium. traffic, often turning it off completely. Therefore, as the Because of these attachments, when the stereocilia orientation of the head in space changes and the weight bend in the direction of the kinocilium, the filamentous of the statoconia bends the cilia, appropriate signals are attachments tug in sequence on the stereocilia, pulling transmitted to the brain to control equilibrium. them outward from the cell body. This movement opens In each macula, each of the hair cells is oriented in a dif- several hundred cation channels in the neuronal cell ferent direction so that some of the hair cells are stimulated membrane around the bases of the stereocilia, and these when the head bends forward, some are stimulated when channels are capable of conducting large numbers of posi- it bends backward, others are stimulated when it bends to tive ions. Therefore, positive ions pour into the cell from one side, and so forth. Therefore, a different pattern of exci- the surrounding endolymphatic fluid, causing receptor tation occurs in the macular nerve fibers for each orienta- membrane depolarization. Conversely, bending the pile tion of the head in the gravitational field. It is this “pattern” of stereocilia in the opposite direction (backward, away that apprises the brain of the head’s orientation in space. from the kinocilium) reduces the tension on the attach- ments; this movement closes the ion channels, thus caus- Semicircular Ducts. The three semicircular ducts in each ing receptor hyperpolarization. vestibular apparatus, known as the anterior, posterior, and Under normal resting conditions, the nerve fibers lead- lateral (horizontal) semicircular ducts, are arranged at ing from the hair cells transmit continuous nerve impulses right angles to one another so that they represent all three at a rate of about 100 per second. When the stereocilia are planes in space.
