Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


transmit continuous nerve impulses right angles to one another so that they represent all three at a rate of about 100 per second. When the stereocilia are planes in space. When the head is bent forward about 30 705 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology degrees, the lateral semicircular ducts are approximately FUNCTION OF THE UTRICLE AND SACCULE horizontal with respect to the surface of the Earth; the IN THE MAINTENANCE OF STATIC anterior ducts are in vertical planes that project forward EQUILIBRIUM and 45 degrees outward, whereas the posterior ducts are It is especially important that the hair cells are all oriented in in vertical planes that project backward and 45 degrees different directions in the maculae of the utricles and saccules outward. so that with different positions of the head, different hair cells Each semicircular duct has an enlargement at one of become stimulated. The “patterns” of stimulation of the dif- its ends called the ampulla, and the ducts and ampulla ferent hair cells apprise the brain of the position of the head are filled with a fluid called endolymph. Flow of this fluid with respect to the pull of gravity. In turn, the vestibular, cer- through one of the ducts and through its ampulla excites ebellar, and reticular motor nerve systems of the brain excite the sensory organ of the ampulla in the following man- appropriate postural muscles to maintain proper equilibrium. ner: Figure 56-1 1 shows a small crest in each ampulla This utricle and saccule system functions extremely called a crista ampullaris. On top of this crista is a loose effectively for maintaining equilibrium when the head is gelatinous tissue mass, the cupula. When a person’s head in the near- vertical position. Indeed, a person can deter- begins to rotate in any direction, the inertia of the fluid mine as little as half a degree of disequilibrium when the in one or more of the semicircular ducts causes the fluid body leans from the precise upright position. to remain stationary while the semicircular duct rotates with the head. This process causes fluid to flow from Detection of Linear Acceleration by the Utricle and Sac- the duct and through the ampulla, bending the cupula cule Maculae. When the body is suddenly thrust forward— to one side, as demonstrated by the position of the col- that is, when the body accelerates—the
