Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ampulla, bending the cupula cule Maculae. When the body is suddenly thrust forward— to one side, as demonstrated by the position of the col- that is, when the body accelerates—the statoconia, which ored cupula in Figure 56-1 1. Rotation of the head in have greater mass inertia than the surrounding fluid, fall the opposite direction causes the cupula to bend to the backward on the hair cell cilia, and information of disequi- opposite side. librium is sent into the nervous centers, causing the person Hundreds of cilia from hair cells located on the ampul- to feel as though he or she were falling backward. This sensa- lary crest are projected into the cupula. The kinocilia of tion automatically causes the person to lean forward until these hair cells are all oriented in the same direction in the the resulting anterior shift of the statoconia exactly equals cupula, and bending the cupula in that direction causes the tendency for the statoconia to fall backward because of depolarization of the hair cells, whereas bending it in the the acceleration. At this point, the nervous system senses a opposite direction hyperpolarizes the cells. Then, from state of proper equilibrium and leans the body forward no the hair cells, appropriate signals are sent via the vestibu- farther. Thus, the maculae operate to maintain equilibrium lar nerve to apprise the central nervous system of a change during linear acceleration in exactly the same manner as they in rotation of the head and the rate of change in each of operate during static equilibrium. the three planes of space. The maculae do not operate for the detection of linear velocity. When runners first begin to run, they must lean far forward to keep from falling backward because of initial acceleration, but once they have achieved running speed, if they were running in a vacuum, they would not have to lean forward. When running in air, they lean forward to maintain equilibrium only because of air resistance against their bodies; in this case, it is not the maculae that make them lean but air pressure acting on pressure end-o rgans Cupula in the skin, which initiate appropriate equilibrium adjust- Cristae ments to prevent falling. Ampulla ampullaris DETECTION OF HEAD ROTATION BY THE SEMICIRCULAR DUCTS When the head suddenly begins to rotate in any direc- tion (called angular acceleration), the endolymph in the semicircular ducts, because of its
