Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


OF HEAD ROTATION BY THE SEMICIRCULAR DUCTS When the head suddenly begins to rotate in any direc- tion (called angular acceleration), the endolymph in the semicircular ducts, because of its inertia, tends to remain Hair cells stationary while the semicircular ducts turn. This mecha- Nerve nism causes relative fluid flow in the ducts in the direction opposite to head rotation. Figure 56- 12 shows a typical discharge signal from a sin- gle hair cell in the crista ampullaris when an animal is rotated Figure 56- 11. Movement of the cupula and its embedded hairs at for 40 seconds, demonstrating the following: (1) even when the onset of rotation. the cupula is in its resting position, the hair cell emits a tonic 706 CHAPTER 56 Cortical and Brain Stem Control of Motor Function discharge of about 100 impulses per second; (2) when the The function of the semicircular ducts can be animal begins to rotate, the hairs bend to one side, and the explained by the following illustration: if a person is rate of discharge increases greatly; and (3) with continued running forward rapidly and then suddenly begins to rotation, the excess discharge of the hair cell gradually sub- turn to one side, he or she will fall off balance a frac- sides back to the resting level during the next few seconds. tion of a second later unless appropriate corrections The reason for this adaptation of the receptor is that are made ahead of time. However, the maculae of the within the first few seconds of rotation, back resistance utricle and saccule cannot detect that the person is off to the flow of fluid in the semicircular duct and past the balance until after the loss of balance has occurred. The bent cupula causes the endolymph to begin rotating as semicircular ducts, however, will have already detected rapidly as the semicircular canal itself. Then, in another that the person is turning, and this information can eas- 5 to 20 seconds, the cupula slowly returns to its resting ily apprise the central nervous system of the fact that position in the middle of the ampulla because of its own the person will fall off balance within the next fraction elastic recoil. of a second or so unless some anticipatory correction When the rotation suddenly stops, exactly opposite is made. effects take place: The endolymph continues to rotate In other words, the
