Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of a second or so unless some anticipatory correction When the rotation suddenly stops, exactly opposite is made. effects take place: The endolymph continues to rotate In other words, the semicircular duct mechanism pre- while the semicircular duct stops. This time, the cupula dicts that disequilibrium is going to occur and thereby bends in the opposite direction, causing the hair cell causes the equilibrium centers to make appropriate to stop discharging entirely. After another few seconds, anticipatory preventive adjustments, which helps the the endolymph stops moving and the cupula gradually person maintain balance before the situation can be returns to its resting position, thus allowing hair cell corrected. discharge to return to its normal tonic level, as shown Removal of the flocculonodular lobes of the cerebel- at the right in Figure 56-1 2. Thus, the semicircular lum prevents normal detection of semicircular duct duct transmits a signal of one polarity when the head signals but has less effect on detecting macular signals. begins to rotate and of opposite polarity when it stops It is especially interesting that the cerebellum serves as rotating. a “predictive” organ for most rapid movements of the “Predictive” Function of the Semicircular Duct body, as well as for those involving equilibrium. These System in the Maintenance of Equilibrium. Because other functions of the cerebellum are discussed in Chap- the semicircular ducts do not detect that the body is off ter 57. balance in the forward direction, in the side direction, or in the backward direction, one might ask, “What is the Vestibular Mechanisms for Stabilizing the Eyes function of the semicircular ducts in the maintenance When a person changes direction of movement rapidly of equilibrium?” All they detect is that the person’s or even leans the head sideways, forward, or backward, it head is beginning or stopping to rotate in one direction would be impossible to maintain a stable image on the reti- or another. Therefore, the function of the semicircular nas unless the person had some automatic control mecha- ducts is not to maintain static equilibrium or to main- nism to stabilize the direction of the eyes’ gaze. In addition, tain equilibrium during steady directional or rotational the eyes would be of little use in detecting an image unless movements. Yet, loss of function of the semicircular they remained fixed on each object long enough to gain a ducts does cause a person to have
