Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


detecting an image unless movements. Yet, loss of function of the semicircular they remained fixed on each object long enough to gain a ducts does cause a person to have poor equilibrium clear image. Fortunately, each time the head is suddenly ro- tated, signals from the semicircular ducts cause the eyes to when attempting to perform rapid, intricate changing rotate in a direction equal and opposite to the rotation of body movements. the head. This movement results from reflexes transmitted through the vestibular nuclei and the medial longitudinal fasciculus to the oculomotor nuclei. These reflexes are de- 400 Rotation scribed in Chapter 52. Other Factors Concerned With Equilibrium 300 Neck Proprioceptors. The vestibular apparatus detects the orientation and movement only of the head. Therefore, Tonic 200 level of it is essential that the nervous centers also receive appro- discharge Stop rotation priate information about the orientation of the head with respect to the body. This information is transmitted from 100 the proprioceptors of the neck and body directly to the ves- tibular and reticular nuclei in the brain stem and indirectly Begin rotation 0 by way of the cerebellum. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 Among the most important proprioceptive information Seconds needed for the maintenance of equilibrium is that transmit- ted by joint receptors of the neck. When the head is leaned Figure 56- 12. Response of a hair cell when a semicircular canal is stimulated first by the onset of head rotation and then by stopping in one direction by bending the neck, impulses from the rotation. neck proprioceptors keep the signals originating in the ves- 707 dnoces rep seslupmI UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology tibular apparatus from giving the person a sense of disequi- the semicircular ducts. In fact, destruction of these lobes librium. They perform this function by transmitting signals results in almost exactly the same clinical symptoms as de- that exactly oppose the signals transmitted from the ves- struction of the semicircular ducts. That is, severe injury to tibular apparatus. However, when the entire body leans in either the lobes or the ducts causes loss of dynamic equilib- one direction, the impulses from the vestibular apparatus rium during rapid changes in direction of motion but does are not opposed by signals from the neck proprioceptors; not seriously disturb equilibrium under static conditions. It therefore,
