Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


vestibular apparatus rium during rapid changes in direction of motion but does are not opposed by signals from the neck proprioceptors; not seriously disturb equilibrium under static conditions. It therefore, in this case, the person does perceive a change in is believed that the uvula of the cerebellum plays a similar equilibrium status of the entire body. important role in static equilibrium. Proprioceptive and Exteroceptive Information From Signals transmitted upward in the brain stem from both Other Parts of the Body. Proprioceptive information from the vestibular nuclei and the cerebellum via the medial parts of the body other than the neck is also important in longitudinal fasciculus cause corrective movements of the the maintenance of equilibrium. For example, pressure eyes every time the head rotates, so the eyes remain fixed sensations from the footpads tell one (1) whether weight on a specific visual object. Signals also pass upward (either is distributed equally between the two feet and (2) whether through this same tract or through reticular tracts) to the weight on the feet is more forward or backward. cerebral cortex, terminating in a primary cortical center for Exteroceptive information is especially necessary for equilibrium located in the parietal lobe deep in the sylvian the maintenance of equilibrium when a person is running. fissure on the opposite side of the fissure from the auditory The air pressure against the front of the body signals that a area of the superior temporal gyrus. These signals apprise force is opposing the body in a direction different from that the psyche of the equilibrium status of the body. caused by gravitational pull; as a result, the person leans Functions of Brain Stem Nuclei in Controlling Subcon- forward to oppose this force. scious, Stereotyped Movements Importance of Visual Information for Maintaining Equi- librium. After destruction of the vestibular apparatus, and Rarely, a baby is born without brain structures above even after loss of most proprioceptive information from the the mesencephalic region, a condition called anenceph- body, a person can still use the visual mechanisms reason- aly. Some of these babies have been kept alive for many ably effectively for maintaining equilibrium. Even a slight months. They are able to perform some stereotyped move- linear or rotational movement of the body instantaneously ments for feeding, such as suckling, extrusion of unpleas- shifts the visual images on the retina, and this information ant food from the mouth,
