Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


rotational movement of the body instantaneously ments for feeding, such as suckling, extrusion of unpleas- shifts the visual images on the retina, and this information ant food from the mouth, and moving the hands to the is relayed to the equilibrium centers. Some people with bi- mouth to suck the fingers. In addition, they can yawn and lateral destruction of the vestibular apparatus have almost stretch. They can cry and can follow objects with move- normal equilibrium as long as their eyes are open, and all ments of the eyes and head. Also, placing pressure on the motions are performed slowly. However, when moving rap- upper anterior parts of their legs causes them to pull to idly or when the eyes are closed, equilibrium is immediately the sitting position. It is clear that many of the stereotyped lost. motor functions of the human being are integrated in the brain stem. Neuronal Connections of the Vestibular Apparatus With the Central Nervous System Figure 53- 13 shows the connections in the hindbrain of the vestibular nerve. Most of the vestibular nerve fibers terminate in the brain stem in the vestibular nuclei, which Dentate nucleus Fastigial are located approximately at the junction of the medulla nucleus Medial longitudinal and the pons. Some fibers pass directly to the brain stem fasciculus reticular nuclei without synapsing and also to the cerebellar fastigial, uvular, and flocculonodular lobe nuclei. The fibers Red nucleus that end in the brain stem vestibular nuclei synapse with second- order neurons that also send fibers into the cerebel- lum, the vestibulospinal tracts, the medial longitudinal fas- Reticular ciculus, and other areas of the brain stem, particularly the substance reticular nuclei. Fastigioreticular The primary pathway for the equilibrium reflexes tract begins in the vestibular nerves, where the nerves are Vestibular nucleus excited by the vestibular apparatus. The pathway then Flocculo- passes to the vestibular nuclei and cerebellum. Next, sig- nodular lobe Vestibular nerve nals are sent into the reticular nuclei of the brain stem, as well as down the spinal cord via the vestibulospinal Vestibulospinal tract and reticulospinal tracts. The signals to the cord control Rubrospinal tract the interplay between facilitation and inhibition of the Reticulospinal tract many antigravity muscles, thus automatically controlling equilibrium. Figure 56- 13. Connections of vestibular nerves through the vestibu- The flocculonodular lobes of the cerebellum are espe- lar nuclei (large pink oval area) with other areas of the
