Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


C, Eisner F: A little more conversation, a little plasticity in the mammalian brain. Nat Rev Neurosci 10:647, 2009. less action—candidate roles for the motor cortex in speech percep- Kim HR, Angelaki DE, DeAngelis GC: The neural basis of depth percep- tion. Nat Rev Neurosci 10:295, 2009. tion from motion parallax. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 2016 Svoboda K, Li N: Neural mechanisms of movement planning: motor Jun 19;371(1697). pii: 20150256. doi: 10.1098/rstb.2015.0256. cortex and beyond. Curr Opin Neurobiol 49:33, 2018. Laurens J, Angelaki DE: The brain vompass: a perspective on how self- motion updates the head direction cell attractor. Neuron 97:275, 2018. 709 UNIT XI CHAPTER 5 7 Cerebellum and Basal Ganglia Contributions to Overall Motor Control In addition to areas in the cerebral cortex that stimulate The cerebellum receives continuously updated infor- muscle contraction, two other brain structures are essen- mation about the desired sequence of muscle contrac- tial for normal motor function—the cerebellum and the tions from the brain motor control areas; it also receives basal ganglia. Neither of these structures can control continuous sensory information from the peripheral muscle function by itself. Instead, these structures always parts of the body, giving sequential changes in the sta- function in association with other systems of motor tus of each part of the body—its position, rate of move- control. ment, forces acting on it, and so forth. The cerebellum The cerebellum plays major roles in timing of motor then compares the actual movements as depicted by the activities and in rapid, smooth progression from one peripheral sensory feedback information with the move- muscle movement to the next. It also helps control the ments intended by the motor system. If the two do not intensity of muscle contraction when the muscle load compare favorably, then instantaneous subconscious changes and controls the necessary instantaneous inter- corrective signals are transmitted back into the motor play between agonist and antagonist muscle groups. system to increase or decrease the levels of activation of The basal ganglia help plan and control complex pat- specific muscles. terns of muscle movement. They control relative intensi- The cerebellum also aids the cerebral cortex in plan- ties of the separate movements, directions of movements, ning the next sequential movement a fraction of a sec- and sequencing of multiple successive and parallel move- ond in advance while the current movement is still being ments to achieve specific
