Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


next sequential movement a fraction of a sec- and sequencing of multiple successive and parallel move- ond in advance while the current movement is still being ments to achieve specific complicated motor goals. This executed, thus helping the person to progress smoothly chapter explains the basic functions of the cerebellum and from one movement to the next. Also, it learns by its basal ganglia and discusses the overall brain mechanisms mistakes. If a movement does not occur exactly as for achieving intricate coordination of total motor activity. intended, the cerebellar circuit learns to make a stron- ger or weaker movement the next time. To make this THE CEREBELLUM AND ITS MOTOR adjustment, changes occur in the excitability of appro- FUNCTIONS priate cerebellar neurons, thus bringing subsequent muscle contractions into better correspondence with The cerebellum, illustrated in Figures 57- 1 and 57- 2, the intended movements. has long been called a silent area of the brain, princi- pally because electrical excitation of the cerebellum does Anatomical and Functional Areas of the Cerebellum not cause any conscious sensation and rarely causes any Anatomically, the cerebellum is divided into three lobes by motor movement. Removal of the cerebellum, however, two deep fissures, as shown in Figures 57- 1 and 57- 2: (1) causes body movements to become highly abnormal. The the anterior lobe, (2) the posterior lobe, and (3) the flocculo- cerebellum is especially vital during rapid muscular activ- nodular lobe. The flocculonodular lobe is the oldest portion ities such as running, typing, playing the piano, and even of the cerebellum; it developed along with (and functions talking. Loss of this area of the brain can cause almost with) the vestibular system in controlling body equilibrium, total lack of coordination of these activities, even though as discussed in Chapter 56. its loss does not cause paralysis of any muscles. Longitudinal Functional Divisions of the Anterior and How can the cerebellum be so important when it has Posterior Lobes. From a functional point of view, the an- no direct ability to cause muscle contraction? The answer terior and posterior lobes are organized not by lobes but is that it helps sequence and monitor motor activities and along the longitudinal axis, as demonstrated in Figure 57- makes corrective adjustments while activities are being 2, which shows a posterior view of the human cerebellum after the lower end of the posterior cerebellum has been executed so
