Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


57- makes corrective adjustments while activities are being 2, which shows a posterior view of the human cerebellum after the lower end of the posterior cerebellum has been executed so that they will conform to the motor signals rolled downward from its normally hidden position. Note, directed by the cerebral motor cortex and other parts of down the center of the cerebellum, a narrow band called the brain. 711 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Posterior lobe Anterior lobe Pons Flocculonodular lobe Medulla Figure 57- 3 Somatosensory projection areas in the cerebellar cortex. Figure 57- 1 Anatomical lobes of the cerebellum as seen from the lateral side. Topographical Representation of the Body in the Ver- mis and Intermediate Zones. In the same manner that the cerebral sensory cortex, motor cortex, basal ganglia, red Hemisphere Vermis nuclei, and reticular formation all have topographical rep- Anterior resentations of the different parts of the body, so does the lobe vermis and intermediate zones of the cerebellum. Figure 57- 3 shows two such representations. Note that the axial portions of the body lie in the vermis part of the cerebel- lum, whereas the limbs and facial regions lie in the interme- diate zones. These topographical representations receive afferent nerve signals from all the respective parts of the Posterior lobe body, as well as from corresponding topographical motor areas in the cerebral cortex and brain stem. In turn, they send motor signals back to the same respective topographi- cal areas of the cerebral motor cortex, as well as to topo- graphical areas of the red nucleus and reticular formation Flocculonodular Lateral zone in the brain stem. Vermis lobe of hemisphere Note that the large lateral portions of the cerebellar Intermediate zone hemispheres do not have topographical representations of hemisphere of the body. These areas of the cerebellum receive in- Figure 57- 2 Functional parts of the cerebellum as seen from the put signals almost exclusively from the cerebral cortex, posteroinferior view, with the inferiormost portion of the cerebellum especially the premotor areas of the frontal cortex, and rolled outward to flatten the surface. from the somatosensory and other sensory association areas of the parietal cortex. This connectivity with the cerebral cortex allows the lateral portions of the cere- the vermis, which is separated from the remainder of the bellar hemispheres to play important roles in planning cerebellum by shallow
