Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cerebral cortex allows the lateral portions of the cere- the vermis, which is separated from the remainder of the bellar hemispheres to play important roles in planning cerebellum by shallow grooves. Most cerebellar control and coordinating the body’s rapid sequential muscular functions for muscle movements of the axial body, neck, activities that occur one after another within fractions of shoulders, and hips are located in this area. a second. To each side of the vermis is a large, laterally protruding cerebellar hemisphere; each of these hemispheres is divided Neuronal Circuit of the Cerebellum into an intermediate zone and a lateral zone. The interme- The human cerebellar cortex is actually a large folded sheet, diate zone of the hemisphere is concerned with controlling about 17 centimeters wide by 120 centimeters long, with muscle contractions in the distal portions of the upper and the folds lying crosswise, as shown in Figures 57- 2 and lower limbs, especially the hands, fingers, feet, and toes. 57- 3. Each fold is called a folium. Lying deep beneath the The lateral zone of the hemisphere operates at a much more folded mass of cerebellar cortex are deep cerebellar nuclei. remote level because this area joins with the cerebral cor- Input Pathways to the Cerebellum tex in the overall planning of sequential motor movements. Without this lateral zone, most discrete motor activities of Afferent Pathways From Other Parts of the Brain. The the body lose their appropriate timing and sequencing and basic input pathways to the cerebellum are shown in Fig- therefore become uncoordinated, as we discuss more fully ure 57- 4. An extensive and important afferent pathway is later in this chapter. the corticopontocerebellar pathway, which originates in the 712 Chapter 57 Cerebellum and Basal Ganglia Contributions to Overall Motor Control Anterior Superior cerebellar peduncle Ventral spinocerebellar tract lobe Superior cerebellar peduncle Ventral spinocerebellar Cerebellum tract Cerebropontile Inferior cerebellar peduncle tract Pontocerebellar tract Posterior Middle cerebellar Medulla oblongata lobe peduncle Dorsal external arcuate fiber Vestibulocerebellar Flocculonodular tract Ventral spinocerebellar tract lobe Olivocerebellar and reticulocerebellar tract Inferior cerebellar peduncle Spinal cord Ventral spinocerebellar tract Dorsal spinocerebellar tract Figure 57- 4 Principal afferent tracts to the cerebellum. Dorsal spinocerebellar tract cerebral motor and premotor cortices and also in the cer- ebral somatosensory cortex. It passes by way of the pontile nuclei and pontocerebellar tracts mainly to the lateral divi- sions of the cerebellar hemispheres on the opposite side
