Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the cer- ebral somatosensory cortex. It passes by way of the pontile nuclei and pontocerebellar tracts mainly to the lateral divi- sions of the cerebellar hemispheres on the opposite side of Clark’s cells the brain from the cerebral areas. In addition, important afferent tracts originate in each Figure 57- 5 Spinocerebellar tracts. side of the brain stem. These tracts include the following: (1) an extensive olivocerebellar tract, which passes from the inferior olive to all parts of the cerebellum and is excited tendons, (3) positions and rates of movement of the parts in the olive by fibers from the cerebral motor cortex, basal of the body, and (4) forces acting on the surfaces of the ganglia, widespread areas of the reticular formation, and body. spinal cord; (2) vestibulocerebellar fibers, some of which The ventral spinocerebellar tracts receive much less originate in the vestibular apparatus itself and others from information from the peripheral receptors. Instead, they the brain stem vestibular nuclei, with almost all of these are excited mainly by motor signals arriving in the ante- fibers terminating in the flocculonodular lobe and fastigial rior horns of the spinal cord from (1) the brain through nucleus of the cerebellum; and (3) reticulocerebellar fibers, the corticospinal and rubrospinal tracts and (2) the in- which originate in different portions of the brain stem re- ternal motor pattern generators in the cord itself. Thus, ticular formation and terminate in the midline cerebellar this ventral fiber pathway tells the cerebellum which areas (mainly in the vermis). Afferent Pathways From the Periphery. The cer- motor signals have arrived at the anterior horns; this feedback is called the efference copy of the anterior horn ebellum also receives important sensory signals directly motor drive. from the peripheral parts of the body, mainly through four The spinocerebellar pathways can transmit impulses at tracts on each side, two of which are located dorsally in the velocities up to 120 m/sec, which is the most rapid con- cord and two ventrally. The two most important of these duction in any pathway in the central nervous system. This tracts are shown in Figure 57-5 , the dorsal spinocerebel- speed is important for instantaneous apprisal of the cer- lar tract and the ventral spinocerebellar tract. The dorsal ebellum of changes in peripheral muscle actions. tract enters the cerebellum through the inferior cerebellar In addition to signals from the spinocerebellar tracts, peduncle and terminates
