Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


spinocerebellar tract. The dorsal ebellum of changes in peripheral muscle actions. tract enters the cerebellum through the inferior cerebellar In addition to signals from the spinocerebellar tracts, peduncle and terminates in the vermis and intermediate signals are transmitted into the cerebellum from the body zones of the cerebellum on the same side as its origin. The periphery through the spinal dorsal columns to the dorsal ventral tract enters the cerebellum through the superior column nuclei of the medulla and are then relayed to the cerebellar peduncle, but it terminates in both sides of the cerebellum. Likewise, signals are transmitted up the spinal cerebellum. cord through the spinoreticular pathway to the reticular The signals transmitted in the dorsal spinocerebel- formation of the brain stem and also through the spino- lar tracts come mainly from the muscle spindles and to olivary pathway to the inferior olivary nucleus. Signals a lesser extent from other somatic receptors throughout are then relayed from both of these areas to the cerebel- the body, such as Golgi tendon organs, large tactile re- lum. Thus, the cerebellum continually collects information ceptors of the skin, and joint receptors. All these signals about the movements and positions of all parts of the body apprise the cerebellum of the momentary status of (1) even though it is operating at a subconscious level. muscle contraction, (2) degree of tension on the muscle 713 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Dentate nucleus Cerebellothalamocortical Molecular tract layer Reticulum of mesencephalon Purkinje Purkinje Inhibitory cell cell layer input from To thalamus Climbing Purkinje Granule fiber cells cell layer Red nucleus Deep Granule nuclear cells Deep Superior cerebellar cell Mossy nuclei Excitatory peduncle fiber afferent inputs from Input Fastigial nucleus Input climbing (all other afferents) (inferior fibers and Fastigioreticular tract olive) mossy fibers Paleocerebellum Output Figure 57- 7 Deep nuclear cells receive excitatory and inhibitory in- puts. The left side of this figure shows the basic neuronal circuit of Figure 57- 6 Principal efferent tracts from the cerebellum. the cerebellum, with excitatory neurons shown in red and the Purkin- je cell (an inhibitory neuron) shown in black. To the right is shown the physical relationship of the deep cerebellar nuclei to the cerebellar Output Signals From the Cerebellum cortex with its three layers. Deep Cerebellar Nuclei and the Efferent Pathways. Lo- cated deep in the cerebellar mass on each side
