Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to the cerebellar Output Signals From the Cerebellum cortex with its three layers. Deep Cerebellar Nuclei and the Efferent Pathways. Lo- cated deep in the cerebellar mass on each side are three deep cerebellar nuclei—the dentate, interposed, and fas- portion of the brain stem. This complex circuit mainly tigial. (The vestibular nuclei in the medulla also function helps coordinate the reciprocal contractions of agonist in some respects as if they were deep cerebellar nuclei and antagonist muscles in the peripheral portions of the because of their direct connections with the cortex of the limbs, especially in the hands, fingers, and thumbs. flocculonodular lobe.) All the deep cerebellar nuclei receive 3. A pathway that begins in the cerebellar cortex of the lat- signals from two sources: (1) the cerebellar cortex and (2) eral zone of the cerebellar hemisphere and then passes the deep sensory afferent tracts to the cerebellum. to the dentate nucleus, next to the ventrolateral and Each time an input signal arrives in the cerebellum, it ventroanterior nuclei of the thalamus, and, finally, to the divides and goes in two directions: (1) directly to one of cerebral cortex. This pathway plays an important role in the cerebellar deep nuclei and (2) to a corresponding area helping coordinate sequential motor activities initiated of the cerebellar cortex overlying the deep nucleus. Then, by the cerebral cortex. a fraction of a second later, the cerebellar cortex relays an inhibitory output signal to the deep nucleus. Thus, all in- FUNCTIONAL UNIT OF THE CEREBELLAR put signals that enter the cerebellum eventually end in the CORTEX—THE PURKINJE AND DEEP deep nuclei in the form of initial excitatory signals followed NUCLEAR CELLS a fraction of a second later by inhibitory signals. From the deep nuclei, output signals leave the cerebellum and are The cerebellum has about 30 million nearly identical func- distributed to other parts of the brain. tional units, one of which is shown to the left in Figure The general plan of the major efferent pathways leading 57- 7. This functional unit centers on a single, very large out of the cerebellum is shown in Figure 57- 6 and consists Purkinje cell and on a corresponding deep nuclear cell. of the following pathways: 1. A pathway that originates in the midline structures of To the top and right in Figure 57- 7, the three major the cerebellum (the vermis) and then passes through
