Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


1. A pathway that originates in the midline structures of To the top and right in Figure 57- 7, the three major the cerebellum (the vermis) and then passes through the layers of the cerebellar cortex are shown: the molecular fastigial nuclei into the medullary and pontile regions layer, Purkinje cell layer, and granule cell layer. Beneath of the brain stem. This circuit functions in close asso- these cortical layers, in the center of the cerebellar mass, ciation with the equilibrium apparatus and brain stem are the deep cerebellar nuclei that send output signals to vestibular nuclei to control equilibrium, as well as in as- other parts of the nervous system. sociation with the reticular formation of the brain stem to control the postural attitudes of the body. It was dis- Neuronal Circuit of the Functional Unit. Also shown cussed in detail in Chapter 56 in relation to equilibrium. in the left half of Figure 57- 7 is the neuronal circuit of 2. A pathway that originates in (1) the intermediate zone the functional unit, which is repeated with little varia- of the cerebellar hemisphere and then passes through tion 30 million times in the cerebellum. The output from (2) the interposed nucleus to (3) the ventrolateral and the functional unit is from a deep nuclear cell. This cell ventroanterior nuclei of the thalamus and then to (4) the cerebral cortex to (5) several midline structures of is continually under both excitatory and inhibitory influ- the thalamus and then to (6) the basal ganglia and (7) ences. The excitatory influences arise from direct connec- the red nucleus and reticular formation of the upper tions with afferent fibers that enter the cerebellum from 714 xetroC Chapter 57 Cerebellum and Basal Ganglia Contributions to Overall Motor Control clear cells by both the climbing and the mossy fibers ex- the brain or the periphery. The inhibitory influence arises cites them. By contrast, signals arriving from the Purkinje entirely from the Purkinje cell in the cortex of the cerebel- cells inhibit them. Normally, the balance between these lum. two effects is slightly in favor of excitation so that under The afferent inputs to the cerebellum are mainly of quiet conditions, output from the deep nuclear cell re- two types, one called the climbing fiber type and the other mains relatively constant at a moderate level of continu- called the mossy fiber type. ous stimulation.
