Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


nuclear cell re- two types, one called the climbing fiber type and the other mains relatively constant at a moderate level of continu- called the mossy fiber type. ous stimulation. The climbing fibers all originate from the inferior olives In execution of a rapid motor movement, the initiat- of the medulla. There is one climbing fiber for about 5 to ing signal from the cerebral motor cortex or brain stem at 10 Purkinje cells. After sending branches to several deep first greatly increases deep nuclear cell excitation. Then, nuclear cells, the climbing fiber continues all the way to the another few milliseconds later, feedback inhibitory sig- outer layers of the cerebellar cortex, where it makes about nals from the Purkinje cell circuit arrive. In this way, there 300 synapses with the soma and dendrites of each Purkinje is first a rapid excitatory signal sent by the deep nuclear cell. This climbing fiber is distinguished by the fact that a cells into the motor output pathway to enhance the motor single impulse in it will always cause a single, prolonged (up movement, followed within another small fraction of to 1 second), peculiar type of action potential in each Pur- a second by an inhibitory signal. This inhibitory signal kinje cell with which it connects, beginning with a strong resembles a “delay line” negative feedback signal of the spike and followed by a trail of weakening secondary spikes. type that is effective in providing damping. That is, when This action potential is called the complex spike. the motor system is excited, a negative feedback signal The mossy fibers are all the other fibers that enter occurs after a short delay to stop the muscle movement the cerebellum from multiple sources—the higher from overshooting its mark. Otherwise, oscillation of the brain, brain stem, and spinal cord. These fibers also movement would occur. send collaterals to excite the deep nuclear cells. They then proceed to the granule cell layer of the cortex, Basket Cells and Stellate Cells Cause Lateral Inhibi- where they also synapse with hundreds to thousands of tion of Purkinje Cells in the Cerebellum. In addition granule cells. In turn, the granule cells send extremely to the deep nuclear cells, granule cells, and Purkinje cells, small axons, less than 1 micrometer in diameter, up to two other types of neurons are located in the cerebel- the molecular layer on the outer surface
