Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and Purkinje cells, small axons, less than 1 micrometer in diameter, up to two other types of neurons are located in the cerebel- the molecular layer on the outer surface of the cerebel- lum—basket cells and stellate cells, which are inhibitory lar cortex. Here the axons divide into two branches cells with short axons. Both the basket cells and the stel- that extend 1 to 2 millimeters in each direction paral- late cells are located in the molecular layer of the cerebel- lel to the folia. Many millions of these parallel nerve lar cortex, lying among and stimulated by the small par- fibers exist because there are some 500 to 1000 granule allel fibers. These cells in turn send their axons at right cells for every 1 Purkinje cell. It is into this molecular angles across the parallel fibers and cause lateral inhibi- layer that the dendrites of the Purkinje cells project and tion of adjacent Purkinje cells, thus sharpening the sig- 80,000 to 200,000 of the parallel fibers synapse with nal in the same manner that lateral inhibition sharpens each Purkinje cell. contrast of signals in many other neuronal circuits of the The mossy fiber input to the Purkinje cell is quite dif- nervous system. ferent from the climbing fiber input because the synaptic connections are weak, so large numbers of mossy fibers Turn- On/Turn- Off and Turn- Off/Turn- On must be stimulated simultaneously to excite the Purkinje Output Signals From the Cerebellum cell. Furthermore, activation usually takes the form of a The typical function of the cerebellum is to help provide much weaker, short-d uration Purkinje cell action poten- rapid turn- on signals for the agonist muscles and simulta- tial called a simple spike, rather than the prolonged com- neous reciprocal turn- off signals for the antagonist mus- plex action potential caused by climbing fiber input. cles at the onset of a movement. Then, on approaching Purkinje Cells and Deep Nuclear Cells Fire Continu- termination of the movement, the cerebellum is mainly ously Under Normal Resting Conditions. One charac- responsible for timing and executing the turn-o ff signals teristic of both Purkinje cells and deep nuclear cells is that to the agonists and the turn- on signals to the antagonists. normally both of them fire continuously; the Purkinje cell Although the exact details are not fully known, one can fires at about 50 to 100 action potentials per
