Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the antagonists. normally both of them fire continuously; the Purkinje cell Although the exact details are not fully known, one can fires at about 50 to 100 action potentials per second, and speculate from the basic cerebellar circuit of Figure 57- 7 the deep nuclear cells fire at much higher rates. Further- how this process might work, as follows. more, the output activity of both these cells can be modu- Let us suppose that the turn- on/turn- off pattern of lated upward or downward. agonist/antagonist contraction at the onset of move- ment begins with signals from the cerebral cortex. These Balance Between Excitation and Inhibition at the signals pass through noncerebellar brain stem and cord Deep Cerebellar Nuclei. Referring again to the circuit of pathways directly to the agonist muscle to begin the initial Figure 57- 7, note that direct stimulation of the deep nu- contraction. 715 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology At the same time, parallel signals are sent by way These mechanisms are still partly speculation. They of the pontile mossy fibers into the cerebellum. One are presented here to illustrate ways by which the cerebel- branch of each mossy fiber goes directly to deep lum could cause exaggerated turn- on and turn- off signals, nuclear cells in the dentate or other deep cerebellar thus controlling the agonist and antagonist muscles, as nuclei, which instantly sends an excitatory signal back well as the timing. into the cerebral corticospinal motor system, either by The Purkinje Cells “Learn” to Correct way of return signals through the thalamus to the cere- Motor Errors—Role of the Climbing Fibers bral cortex or by way of neuronal circuitry in the brain stem, to support the muscle contraction signal that had The degree to which the cerebellum supports onset and already been begun by the cerebral cortex. As a con- offset of muscle contractions, as well as timing of con- sequence, the turn- on signal, after a few milliseconds, tractions, must be learned by the cerebellum. Typically, becomes even more powerful than it was at the start when a person first performs a new motor act, the degree because it becomes the sum of both the cortical and of motor enhancement by the cerebellum at the onset of the cerebellar signals. This effect is the normal effect contraction, the degree of inhibition at the end of contrac- when
