Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of motor enhancement by the cerebellum at the onset of the cerebellar signals. This effect is the normal effect contraction, the degree of inhibition at the end of contrac- when the cerebellum is intact, but in the absence of tion, and the timing of these are almost always incorrect the cerebellum, the secondary extra supportive signal for precise movements. However, after the act has been is missing. This cerebellar support makes the turn- on performed many times, the individual events become muscle contraction much stronger than it would be if progressively more precise, sometimes requiring only a the cerebellum did not exist. few movements before the desired result is achieved, but Now, what causes the turn- off signal for the agonist at other times requiring hundreds of movements. muscles at the termination of the movement? Remem- How do these adjustments come about? The exact ber that all mossy fibers have a second branch that answer is not known, although it is known that sensitivity transmits signals by way of the granule cells to the cer- levels of cerebellar circuits progressively adapt during the ebellar cortex and, eventually, by way of “parallel” fibers, training process, especially the sensitivity of the Purkinje to the Purkinje cells. The Purkinje cells in turn inhibit cells to respond to the granule cell excitation. Further- the deep nuclear cells. This pathway passes through more, this sensitivity change is brought about by signals some of the smallest, slowest- conducting nerve fibers from the climbing fibers entering the cerebellum from the in the nervous system—that is, the parallel fibers of the inferior olivary complex. cerebellar cortical molecular layer, which have diam- Under resting conditions, the climbing fibers fire about eters of only a fraction of a millimeter. Also, the sig- once per second, but they cause extreme depolarization nals from these fibers are weak, so they require a finite of the entire dendritic tree of the Purkinje cell, lasting for period to build up enough excitation in the dendrites up to 1 second, each time they fire. During this time, the of the Purkinje cell to excite it. However, once the Pur- Purkinje cell fires with one initial strong output spike, fol- kinje cell is excited, it sends a strong inhibitory signal to lowed by a series of diminishing spikes. When a person the same deep nuclear cell that had originally turned on performs a new movement for
