Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a strong inhibitory signal to lowed by a series of diminishing spikes. When a person the same deep nuclear cell that had originally turned on performs a new movement for the first time, feedback sig- the movement. Therefore, this signal helps turn off the nals from the muscle and joint proprioceptors will usually movement after a short time. denote to the cerebellum how much the actual movement Thus, one can see how the complete cerebellar circuit fails to match the intended movement, and the climbing could cause a rapid turn- on agonist muscle contraction fiber signals alter the long- term sensitivity of the Purkinje at the beginning of a movement and yet also cause a pre- cells in some way. Over a period, this change in sensitivity, cisely timed turn-o ff of the same agonist contraction after along with other possible “learning” functions of the cer- a given period. ebellum, is believed to make the timing and other aspects Now, let us speculate on the circuit for the antago- of cerebellar control of movements approach perfection. nist muscles. Most important, remember that there are When this state has been achieved, the climbing fibers no reciprocal agonist- antagonist circuits throughout the spi- longer need to send “error” signals to the cerebellum to nal cord for virtually every movement that the cord can cause further change. initiate. Therefore, these circuits are part of the basis for FUNCTION OF THE CEREBELLUM IN antagonist turn-o ff at the onset of movement and then OVERALL MOTOR CONTROL turn- on at termination of movement, mirroring whatever occurs in the agonist muscles. But also remember that The nervous system uses the cerebellum to coordinate the cerebellum contains several other types of inhibitory motor control functions at three levels: cells besides Purkinje cells. The functions of some of these 1. The vestibulocerebellum. This level consists princi- cells are still to be determined; they, too, could play roles pally of the small flocculonodular cerebellar lobes in the initial inhibition of the antagonist muscles at onset that lie under the posterior cerebellum and adjacent of a movement and subsequent excitation at the end of a portions of the vermis. It provides neural circuits movement. for most of the body’s equilibrium movements. 716 Chapter 57 Cerebellum and Basal Ganglia Contributions to Overall Motor Control 2. The spinocerebellum. This level consists of most of Motor cortex the vermis of the posterior and
