Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


movements. 716 Chapter 57 Cerebellum and Basal Ganglia Contributions to Overall Motor Control 2. The spinocerebellum. This level consists of most of Motor cortex the vermis of the posterior and anterior cerebellum plus the adjacent intermediate zones on both sides of the vermis. It provides the circuitry for coordi- nating mainly movements of the distal portions of the limbs, especially the hands and fingers. 3. The cerebrocerebellum. This level consists of the Red nucleus Thalamus large lateral zones of the cerebellar hemispheres, lateral to the intermediate zones. It receives virtu- ally all its input from the cerebral motor cortex and Intermediate adjacent premotor and somatosensory cortices of zone of Mesencephalon, the cerebrum. It transmits its output information in cerebellum pons, and medulla the upward direction back to the brain, function- ing in a feedback manner with the cerebral cortical sensorimotor system to plan sequential voluntary body and limb movements. These movements are Corticospinal tract planned as much as tenths of a second in advance Spinocerebellar of the actual movements. This process is called de- tract Reticulospinal velopment of “motor imagery” of movements to be and rubrospinal performed. tracts The Vestibulocerebellum Functions in Muscles Association With the Brain Stem and Spinal Cord to Control Equilibrium and Postural Movements Figure 57- 8 Cerebral and cerebellar control of voluntary move- ments, involving especially the intermediate zone of the cerebellum. The vestibulocerebellum originated phylogenetically at about the same time that the vestibular apparatus in the inner ear developed. Furthermore, as discussed in Chap- performed rapidly? The answer is that the signals from the ter 56, loss of the flocculonodular lobes and adjacent por- periphery tell the brain how rapidly and in which direc- tions of the vermis of the cerebellum, which constitute the tions the body parts are moving. It is then the function vestibulocerebellum, causes extreme disturbance of equi- of the vestibulocerebellum to calculate in advance from librium and postural movements. these rates and directions where the different parts will In people with vestibulocerebellar dysfunction, equi- be during the next few milliseconds. The results of these librium is far more disturbed during performance of rapid calculations are the key to the brain’s progression to the motions than during inactivity, especially when these next sequential movement. movements involve changes in direction of movement Thus, during control of equilibrium, it is presumed and stimulate the semicircular ducts. This phenomenon that information from both the body
