Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sequential movement. movements involve changes in direction of movement Thus, during control of equilibrium, it is presumed and stimulate the semicircular ducts. This phenomenon that information from both the body periphery and the suggests that the vestibulocerebellum is important in con- vestibular apparatus is used in a typical feedback con- trolling balance between agonist and antagonist muscle trol circuit to provide anticipatory correction of postural contractions of the spine, hips, and shoulders during motor signals necessary for maintaining equilibrium even rapid changes in body positions as required by the ves- during extremely rapid motion, including rapidly chang- tibular apparatus. ing directions of motion. One of the major problems in controlling balance is Spinocerebellum—Feedback Control the amount of time required to transmit position sig- of Distal Limb Movements via the nals and velocity of movement signals from the differ- Intermediate Cerebellar Cortex and the ent parts of the body to the brain. Even when the most Interposed Nucleus rapidly conducting sensory pathways are used, up to 120 m/sec in the spinocerebellar afferent tracts, the delay for As shown in Figure 57- 8, the intermediate zone of each transmission from the feet to the brain is still 15 to 20 cerebellar hemisphere receives two types of information milliseconds. The feet of a person running rapidly can when a movement is performed: (1) information from the move as much as 10 inches during that time. Therefore, cerebral motor cortex and from the midbrain red nucleus, it is never possible for return signals from the peripheral telling the cerebellum the intended sequential plan of move- parts of the body to reach the brain at the same time that ment for the next few fractions of a second; and (2) feed- the movements actually occur. How, then, is it possible back information from the peripheral parts of the body, for the brain to know when to stop a movement and to especially from the distal proprioceptors of the limbs, tell- perform the next sequential act when the movements are ing the cerebellum what actual movements result. 717 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology After the intermediate zone of the cerebellum has into the mechanisms. For motor control by the nervous compared the intended movements with the actual move- system, the cerebellum provides most of this damping ments, the deep nuclear cells of the interposed nucleus function. send corrective output
