Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


nervous compared the intended movements with the actual move- system, the cerebellum provides most of this damping ments, the deep nuclear cells of the interposed nucleus function. send corrective output signals (1) back to the cerebral motor cortex through relay nuclei in the thalamus and (2) Cerebellar Control of Ballistic Movements. Most rapid to the magnocellular portion (the lower portion) of the movements of the body, such as the movements of the red nucleus that gives rise to the rubrospinal tract. The fingers in typing, occur so rapidly that it is not possible to rubrospinal tract in turn joins the corticospinal tract in receive feedback information either from the periphery innervating the lateralmost motor neurons in the ante- to the cerebellum or from the cerebellum back to the mo- rior horns of the spinal cord gray matter, the neurons that tor cortex before the movements are over. These move- control the distal parts of the limbs, particularly the hands ments are called ballistic movements, meaning that the and fingers. entire movement is preplanned and set into motion to go This part of the cerebellar motor control system pro- a specific distance and then to stop. Another important vides smooth, coordinated movements of the agonist example is the saccadic movements of the eyes, in which and antagonist muscles of the distal limbs for performing the eyes jump from one position to the next when read- acute purposeful patterned movements. The cerebellum ing or when looking at successive points along a road as a seems to compare the “intentions” of the higher levels of person is moving in a car. the motor control system, as transmitted to the interme- Three major changes occur in these ballistic move- diate cerebellar zone through the corticopontocerebellar ments when the cerebellum is removed: (1) the move- tract, with the “performance” by the respective parts of ments are slow to develop and do not have the extra onset the body, as transmitted back to the cerebellum from the surge that the cerebellum usually provides; (2) the force periphery. In fact, the ventral spinocerebellar tract even developed is weak; and (3) the movements are slow to transmits back to the cerebellum an “efference” copy of the turn off, usually allowing the movement to go well beyond actual motor control signals that reach the anterior motor the intended mark. Therefore, in the absence of the cer- neurons, and this
