Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


usually allowing the movement to go well beyond actual motor control signals that reach the anterior motor the intended mark. Therefore, in the absence of the cer- neurons, and this information is also integrated with the ebellar circuit, the motor cortex has to think extra hard to signals arriving from the muscle spindles and other pro- turn ballistic movements on and off. Thus, the automa- prioceptor sensory organs, transmitted principally in the tism of ballistic movements is lost. dorsal spinocerebellar tract. Similar comparator signals Considering once again the circuitry of the cerebellum, also go to the inferior olivary complex; if the signals do one sees that it is beautifully organized to perform this not compare favorably, the olivary–Purkinje cell system, biphasic, first excitatory and then delayed inhibitory func- along with possibly other cerebellar learning mecha- tion that is required for preplanned rapid ballistic move- nisms, eventually corrects the motions until they perform ments. Also, the built-i n timing circuits of the cerebellar the desired function. cortex are fundamental to this particular ability of the cerebellum. Function of the Cerebellum to Prevent Overshoot and Cerebrocerebellum—Function of the to “Damp” Movements. Almost all movements of the Large Lateral Zone of the Cerebellar body are “pendular.” For example, when an arm is moved, Hemisphere to Plan, Sequence, and Time momentum develops, and the momentum must be over- Complex Movements come before the movement can be stopped. Because of momentum, all pendular movements have a tendency to In humans the lateral zones of the two cerebellar hemi- overshoot. If overshooting occurs in a person whose cer- spheres are highly developed and greatly enlarged. This ebellum has been destroyed, the conscious centers of the characteristic goes along with human abilities to plan and cerebrum eventually recognize this error and initiate a perform intricate sequential patterns of movement, espe- movement in the reverse direction to attempt to bring the cially with the hands and fingers, and to speak. Yet, the arm to its intended position. However, the arm, by virtue large lateral zones of the cerebellar hemispheres have no of its momentum, overshoots once more in the opposite direct input of information from the peripheral parts of direction, and appropriate corrective signals must again the body. In addition, almost all communication between be instituted. Thus, the arm oscillates back and forth past these lateral cerebellar areas and the cerebral cortex is not its intended point for
