Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


In addition, almost all communication between be instituted. Thus, the arm oscillates back and forth past these lateral cerebellar areas and the cerebral cortex is not its intended point for several cycles before it finally fixes with the primary cerebral motor cortex but instead with on its mark. This effect is called an action tremor or inten- the premotor area and primary and association somato- tion tremor. sensory areas. If the cerebellum is intact, appropriate learned, sub- Even so, destruction of the lateral zones of the cerebel- conscious signals stop the movement precisely at the lar hemispheres, along with their deep nuclei, the dentate intended point, thereby preventing the overshoot and the nuclei, can lead to extreme incoordination of complex tremor. This activity is the basic characteristic of a damp- purposeful movements of the hands, fingers, and feet and ing system. All control systems regulating pendular ele- of the speech apparatus. This condition has been difficult ments that have inertia must have damping circuits built to understand because there is no direct communication 718 Chapter 57 Cerebellum and Basal Ganglia Contributions to Overall Motor Control between this part of the cerebellum and the primary but both of these require cerebellar participation. As an motor cortex. However, experimental studies suggest that example, a person can predict from the changing visual these portions of the cerebellum are concerned with two scene how rapidly he or she is approaching an object. A other important but indirect aspects of motor control: (1) striking experiment that demonstrates the importance of planning of sequential movements and (2) “timing” of the the cerebellum in this ability is the effects of removing the sequential movements. large lateral portions of the cerebellum in monkeys. Such a monkey occasionally charges into the wall of a corridor Planning of Sequential Movements. The planning of because it is unable to predict when it will reach the wall. sequential movements requires that the lateral zones of It is quite possible that the cerebellum provides a “time the hemispheres communicate with both the premotor base,” perhaps using time- delay circuits, against which and sensory portions of the cerebral cortex, and it re- signals from other parts of the central nervous system can quires two- way communication between these cerebral be compared. It is often stated that the cerebellum is par- cortex areas with corresponding areas of the basal ganglia. ticularly helpful in interpreting rapidly
