Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


way communication between these cerebral be compared. It is often stated that the cerebellum is par- cortex areas with corresponding areas of the basal ganglia. ticularly helpful in interpreting rapidly changing spatio- It seems that the “plan” of sequential movements actually temporal relations in sensory information. begins in the sensory and premotor areas of the cerebral cortex, and from there the plan is transmitted to the later- Clinical Abnormalities of the Cerebellum al zones of the cerebellar hemispheres. Then, amid much Destruction of small portions of the lateral cerebellar cortex two- way traffic between the cerebellum and the cerebral seldom causes detectable abnormalities in motor function. cortex, appropriate motor signals provide transition from In fact, several months after as much as one-half of the lat- one sequence of movements to the next. eral cerebellar cortex on one side of the brain has been re- An interesting observation that supports this view is that moved, if the deep cerebellar nuclei are not removed along many neurons in the cerebellar dentate nuclei display the with the cortex, the motor functions of the animal appear activity pattern for the sequential movement that is yet to to be almost normal as long as the animal performs all come while the present movement is still occurring. Thus, movements slowly. Thus, the remaining portions of the mo- the lateral cerebellar zones appear to be involved not with tor control system are capable of compensating to a great what movement is happening at a given moment but with extent for loss of parts of the cerebellum. To cause serious and continuing dysfunction of the what will be happening during the next sequential move- cerebellum, the cerebellar lesion usually must involve one ment a fraction of a second or perhaps even seconds later. or more of the deep cerebellar nuclei—the dentate, inter- To summarize, one of the most important features posed, or fastigial nuclei. of normal motor function is one’s ability to progress Dysmetria and Ataxia smoothly from one movement to the next in orderly suc- cession. In the absence of the large lateral zones of the cer- Two of the most important symptoms of cerebellar disease ebellar hemispheres, this capability is seriously disturbed are dysmetria and ataxia. In the absence of the cerebellum, the subconscious motor control system cannot predict how for rapid movements. far movements will go. Therefore, the movements ordinarily overshoot their intended mark; then,
