Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


In the absence of the cerebellum, the subconscious motor control system cannot predict how for rapid movements. far movements will go. Therefore, the movements ordinarily overshoot their intended mark; then, the conscious portion of Timing Function for Sequential Movements. Another the brain overcompensates in the opposite direction for the important function of the lateral zones of the cerebellar succeeding compensatory movement. This effect is called dys- hemispheres is to provide appropriate timing for each metria, and it results in uncoordinated movements that are succeeding movement. In the absence of these cerebellar called ataxia. Dysmetria and ataxia can also result from le- zones, one loses the subconscious ability to predict how sions in the spinocerebellar tracts because feedback informa- far the different parts of the body will move in a given tion from the moving parts of the body to the cerebellum is time. Without this timing capability, the person becomes essential for cerebellar timing of movement termination. unable to determine when the next sequential movement Past Pointing needs to begin. As a result, the succeeding movement Past pointing means that in the absence of the cerebellum, may begin too early or, more likely, too late. Therefore, le- a person ordinarily moves the hand or some other moving sions in the lateral zones of the cerebellum cause complex part of the body considerably beyond the point of inten- movements (e.g., those required for writing, running, or tion. This movement results from the fact that normally the even talking) to become incoordinate and lacking ability cerebellum initiates most of the motor signal that turns off to progress in orderly sequence from one movement to a movement after it is begun; if the cerebellum is not avail- the next. Such cerebellar lesions are said to cause failure able to initiate this motor signal, the movement ordinarily of smooth progression of movements. goes beyond the intended mark. Therefore, past pointing is actually a manifestation of dysmetria. Extramotor Predictive Functions of the Cerebrocer- Failure of Progression ebellum. The cerebrocerebellum (the large lateral lobes) Dysdiadochokinesia—Inability to Perform Rapid Alter- also helps to “time” events other than movements of the nating Movements. When the motor control system fails to body. For example, the rates of progression of both audi- predict where the different parts of the body will be at a giv- tory and visual phenomena can be predicted by the brain, en time, it “loses” perception
