Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


both audi- predict where the different parts of the body will be at a giv- tory and visual phenomena can be predicted by the brain, en time, it “loses” perception of the parts during rapid motor 719 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology movements. As a result, the succeeding movement may be- cerebral cortex and spinal cord pass through the space gin much too early or much too late, so no orderly “progres- that lies between the major masses of the basal ganglia, sion of movement” can occur. One can demonstrate this ef- the caudate nucleus and the putamen. This space is called fect readily by having a patient with cerebellar damage turn the internal capsule of the brain. It is important for our one hand upward and downward at a rapid rate. The patient current discussion because of the intimate association rapidly “loses” all perception of the instantaneous position between the basal ganglia and the corticospinal system of the hand during any portion of the movement. As a re- for motor control. sult, a series of stalled attempted but jumbled movements occurs instead of the normal coordinate upward and down- ward motions. This condition is called dysdiadochokinesia. NEURONAL CIRCUITRY OF THE BASAL Dysarthria—Failure of Progression in Talking. Another GANGLIA example in which failure of progression occurs is in talk- ing because the formation of words depends on rapid and The anatomical connections between the basal ganglia orderly succession of individual muscle movements in the and the other brain elements that provide motor con- larynx, mouth, and respiratory system. Lack of coordina- trol are complex, as shown in Figure 57- 10. To the left is tion among these structures and the inability to adjust in shown the motor cortex, thalamus, and associated brain advance either the intensity of sound or the duration of stem and cerebellar circuitry. To the right is the major each successive sound causes jumbled vocalization, with circuitry of the basal ganglia system, showing the tre- some syllables loud, some weak, some held for long in- mendous interconnections among the basal ganglia plus tervals, and some held for short intervals, with resultant extensive input and output pathways between the other speech that is often unintelligible. This condition is called motor regions of the brain and the basal ganglia. dysarthria. Cerebellar Nystagmus—Tremor of the Eyeballs. Cer- In the next few sections we
