Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that is often unintelligible. This condition is called motor regions of the brain and the basal ganglia. dysarthria. Cerebellar Nystagmus—Tremor of the Eyeballs. Cer- In the next few sections we concentrate especially on ebellar nystagmus is tremor of the eyeballs that usually two major circuits, the putamen circuit and the caudate occurs when one attempts to fixate the eyes on a scene circuit. to one side of the head. This off- center type of fixation results in rapid, tremulous movements of the eyes rather FUNCTION OF THE BASAL GANGLIA than steady fixation, and it is another manifestation of IN EXECUTING PATTERNS OF MOTOR the failure of damping by the cerebellum. It occurs espe- ACTIVITY—THE PUTAMEN CIRCUIT cially when the flocculonodular lobes of the cerebellum are damaged; in this case, it is also associated with loss One of the principal roles of the basal ganglia in motor of equilibrium because of dysfunction of the pathways control is to function in association with the corticospinal through the flocculonodular cerebellum from the semi- system to control complex patterns of motor activity. An circular ducts. example is the writing of letters of the alphabet. When Hypotonia—Decreased Tone of the Musculature the basal ganglia sustain serious damage, the cortical sys- Loss of the deep cerebellar nuclei, particularly of the den- tem of motor control can no longer provide these pat- tate and interposed nuclei, causes decreased tone of the terns. Instead, one’s writing becomes crude, as if one were peripheral body musculature on the side of the cerebellar learning how to write for the first time. lesion. The hypotonia results from loss of cerebellar facili- Other patterns that require the basal ganglia are cut- tation of the motor cortex and brain stem motor nuclei by ting paper with scissors, hammering nails, shooting a tonic signals from the deep cerebellar nuclei. basketball through a hoop, passing a football, throwing a baseball, the movements of shoveling dirt, most aspects of THE BASAL GANGLIA AND THEIR vocalization, controlled movements of the eyes, and vir- MOTOR FUNCTIONS tually any other of our skilled movements, most of them performed subconsciously. The basal ganglia, like the cerebellum, constitute another accessory motor system that functions usually not by itself Neural Pathways of the Putamen Circuit. Figure 57- but in close association with the cerebral cortex and cortico- 11 shows the principal pathways through the basal gan- spinal motor control system. In fact,
