Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the Putamen Circuit. Figure 57- but in close association with the cerebral cortex and cortico- 11 shows the principal pathways through the basal gan- spinal motor control system. In fact, the basal ganglia receive glia for executing learned patterns of movement. They most of their input signals from the cerebral cortex and also begin mainly in the premotor and supplementary areas return almost all their output signals back to the cortex. of the motor cortex and in the somatosensory areas of the Figure 57- 9 shows the anatomical relationships of sensory cortex. Next they pass to the putamen (mainly the basal ganglia to other structures of the brain. On bypassing the caudate nucleus), then to the internal por- each side of the brain, these ganglia consist of the cau- tion of the globus pallidus, and next to the ventroanterior date nucleus, putamen, globus pallidus, substantia nigra, and ventrolateral relay nuclei of the thalamus, and they and subthalamic nucleus. They are located mainly lateral finally return to the cerebral primary motor cortex and to and surrounding the thalamus, occupying a large por- to portions of the premotor and supplementary cerebral tion of the interior regions of both cerebral hemispheres. areas closely associated with the primary motor cortex. Almost all motor and sensory nerve fibers connecting the Thus, the putamen circuit has its inputs mainly from the 720 Chapter 57 Cerebellum and Basal Ganglia Contributions to Overall Motor Control Longitudinal fissure Caudate nucleus Tail of caudate POSTERIOR Thalamus ANTERIOR Figure 57- 9 Anatomical relations LATERAL Putamen and Fibers to and from of the basal ganglia to the cerebral globus pallidus spinal cord in cortex and thalamus, shown in internal capsule three- dimensional view. Primary motor Premotor and Premotor and supplemental Somatosensory supplemental motor association areas Prefrontal Motor cortex Caudate nucleus Thalamus Putamen Ventroanterior and ventrolateral Subthalamus nuclei of thalamus Caudate Globus pallidus Substantia nigra Putamen Red nucleus Subthalamus Globus pallidus Substantia nigra internal/external Figure 57-1 1 Putamen circuit through the basal ganglia for subcon- scious execution of learned patterns of movement. Cerebellum Inferior olive putamen circuit are ancillary circuits that pass from the Reticular formation putamen through the external globus pallidus, the sub- thalamus, and the substantia nigra—finally returning to the motor cortex by way of the thalamus. Muscles Abnormal Function in the Putamen Circuit: Athetosis, Figure 57- 10 Relationship of the basal ganglial circuitry to the Hemiballismus, and Chorea. How does
