Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cortex by way of the thalamus. Muscles Abnormal Function in the Putamen Circuit: Athetosis, Figure 57- 10 Relationship of the basal ganglial circuitry to the Hemiballismus, and Chorea. How does the putamen cir- corticospinal- cerebellar system for movement control. cuit function to help execute patterns of movement? Little is known about this function. However, when a portion of parts of the brain adjacent to the primary motor cortex but the circuit is damaged or blocked, certain patterns of move- not much from the primary motor cortex itself. Then its ment become severely abnormal. For example, lesions in outputs do go mainly back to the primary motor cortex the globus pallidus frequently lead to spontaneous and of- or closely associated premotor and supplementary cor- ten continuous writhing movements of a hand, an arm, the tex. Functioning in close association with this primary neck, or the face. These movements are called athetosis. 721 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Premotor and Primary motor the caudate nucleus, mainly areas that also integrate the supplemental Somatosensory different types of sensory and motor information into usable thought patterns. Prefrontal After the signals pass from the cerebral cortex to the caudate nucleus, they are transmitted to the inter- nal globus pallidus, then to the relay nuclei of the ventroanterior and ventrolateral thalamus, and finally back to the prefrontal, premotor, and supplementary motor areas of the cerebral cortex, but with almost none of the returning signals passing directly to the Ventroanterior and primary motor cortex. Instead, the returning signals ventrolateral nuclei of thalamus go to the accessory motor regions in the premotor and Caudate supplementary motor areas that are concerned with building sequential patterns of movement lasting 5 Putamen seconds or more instead of exciting individual muscle Subthalamus Globus pallidus movements. internal/external A good example of this phenomenon would be Substantia nigra a person seeing a lion approach and then respond- ing instantaneously and automatically by (1) turning Figure 57- 12 Caudate circuit through the basal ganglia for cognitive away from the lion, (2) beginning to run, and (3) even planning of sequential and parallel motor patterns to achieve specific attempting to climb a tree. Without the cognitive func- conscious goals. tions, the person might not have the instinctive knowl- edge, without thinking for too long a time, to respond A lesion in the subthalamus often leads to sudden quickly and
