Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tions, the person might not have the instinctive knowl- edge, without thinking for too long a time, to respond A lesion in the subthalamus often leads to sudden quickly and appropriately. Thus, cognitive control of flailing movements of an entire limb, a condition called motor activity determines subconsciously, and within hemiballismus. seconds, which patterns of movement will be used Multiple small lesions in the putamen lead to flicking together to achieve a complex goal that might itself last movements in the hands, face, and other parts of the body, for many seconds. called chorea. Lesions of the substantia nigra lead to the common FUNCTION OF THE BASAL GANGLIA TO and extremely severe disease of rigidity, akinesia, and CHANGE THE TIMING AND TO SCALE THE tremors known as Parkinson’s disease, which we discuss INTENSITY OF MOVEMENTS in more detail later in this chapter. Two important capabilities of the brain in controlling ROLE OF THE BASAL GANGLIA FOR movement are to (1) determine how rapidly the move- COGNITIVE CONTROL OF MOTOR ment is to be performed and (2) control how large the PATTERN SEQUENCES—THE CAUDATE movement will be. For example, a person may write the CIRCUIT letter “a” slowly or rapidly. Also, he or she may write a small “a” on a piece of paper or a large “A” on a chalk- The term cognition means the thinking processes of the board. Regardless of the choice, the proportional char- brain, using both sensory input to the brain plus informa- acteristics of the letter remain nearly the same. tion already stored in memory. Most of our motor actions In patients with severe lesions of the basal ganglia, these occur as a consequence of thoughts generated in the timing and scaling functions are poor—in fact, sometimes mind, a process called cognitive control of motor activity. they are nonexistent. Here again, the basal ganglia do not The caudate nucleus plays a major role in this cognitive function alone; rather, they function in close association control of motor activity. with the cerebral cortex. One especially important corti- The neural connections between the caudate nucleus cal area is the posterior parietal cortex, which is the locus and the corticospinal motor control system, shown in Fig- of the spatial coordinates for motor control of all parts of ure 57- 12, are somewhat different from those of the puta- the body, as well as for the relationship of the
