Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


spatial coordinates for motor control of all parts of ure 57- 12, are somewhat different from those of the puta- the body, as well as for the relationship of the body and men circuit. Part of the reason for this difference is that its parts to all its surroundings. Damage to this area does the caudate nucleus, as shown in Figure 57- 9, extends not produce simple deficits of sensory perception, such as into all lobes of the cerebrum, beginning anteriorly in the loss of tactile sensation, blindness, or deafness. Instead, frontal lobes, then passing posteriorly through the pari- lesions of the posterior parietal cortex produce an inabil- etal and occipital lobes, and finally curving forward again ity to perceive objects accurately through normally func- like the letter “C” into the temporal lobes. Furthermore, tioning sensory mechanisms, a condition called agnosia. the caudate nucleus receives large amounts of its input Figure 57- 13 shows how a person with a lesion in the from the association areas of the cerebral cortex overlying right posterior parietal cortex might try to copy drawings. 722 Chapter 57 Cerebellum and Basal Ganglia Contributions to Overall Motor Control Actual Patient’s Copy From cortex Drawing of Drawing Caudate nucleus 12 11 1 Ach 10 2 Putamen 9 3 8 4 7 5 GABA Globus 6 pallidus Substantia nigra Dopamine From brain stem 1. Norepinephrine 2. Serotonin 3. Enkephalin Figure 57- 14 Neuronal pathways that secrete different types of neurotransmitter substances in the basal ganglia. Ach, Acetylcholine; GABA, gamma- aminobutyric acid. Figure 57- 13 Illustration of drawings that might be made by a per- son who has neglect syndrome caused by severe damage in his or her other neurotransmitters in the basal ganglia, as well as in right posterior parietal cortex compared with the actual drawing the other parts of the cerebrum. In addition to all these are patient was requested to copy. Note that the person’s ability to copy multiple glutamate pathways that provide most of the the left side of the drawings is severely impaired. excitatory signals (not shown in the figure) that balance out the large numbers of inhibitory signals transmitted In these cases, the patient’s ability to copy the left side of especially by the dopamine, GABA, and serotonin inhibi- the drawings is severely impaired. Also, such a person will tory transmitters. We have more to say about some of always try to avoid
