Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the dopamine, GABA, and serotonin inhibi- the drawings is severely impaired. Also, such a person will tory transmitters. We have more to say about some of always try to avoid using his or her left arm, left hand, or these neurotransmitter and hormonal systems in subse- other portions of his or her left body for the performance quent sections when we discuss diseases of the basal gan- of tasks; the person may not even wash this side of the glia, as well as in subsequent chapters when we discuss body (personal neglect syndrome), almost not knowing behavior, sleep, wakefulness, and functions of the auto- that these parts of the body exist. nomic nervous system. Because the caudate circuit of the basal ganglial For the present, it should be remembered that GABA system functions mainly with association areas of the functions as an inhibitory neurotransmitter. Therefore, cerebral cortex, such as the posterior parietal cortex, GABA neurons in the feedback loops from the cortex presumably the timing and scaling of movements are through the basal ganglia and then back to the cortex functions of this caudate cognitive motor control circuit. make virtually all these loops negative feedback loops, However, our understanding of basal ganglia function rather than positive feedback loops, thus lending stability is still so imprecise that much of what is discussed in to the motor control systems. Dopamine also functions as the last few sections is analytical deduction rather than an inhibitory neurotransmitter in most parts of the brain, proven fact. so it also functions as a stabilizer under some conditions. FUNCTIONS OF SPECIFIC Clinical Syndromes Resulting From Damage to the NEUROTRANSMITTER SUBSTANCES IN Basal Ganglia THE BASAL GANGLIAL SYSTEM Aside from athetosis and hemiballismus, which have al- ready been mentioned in relation to lesions in the globus Figure 57- 14 demonstrates the interplay of several spe- pallidus and subthalamus, two other major diseases result cific neurotransmitters that are known to function in the from damage in the basal ganglia. These diseases are Par- basal ganglia, showing the following: (1) dopamine path- kinson’s disease and Huntington’s disease. ways from the substantia nigra to the caudate nucleus and Parkinson’s Disease putamen; (2) gamma- aminobutyric acid (GABA) path- Parkinson’s disease, which is also known as paralysis agi- ways from the caudate nucleus and putamen to the globus tans, results from widespread degeneration of the por- pallidus and substantia nigra; (3) acetylcholine pathways
