Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


also known as paralysis agi- ways from the caudate nucleus and putamen to the globus tans, results from widespread degeneration of the por- pallidus and substantia nigra; (3) acetylcholine pathways tion of the substantia nigra (the pars compacta) that sends from the cortex to the caudate nucleus and putamen; and dopamine- secreting nerve fibers to the caudate nucleus (4) multiple general pathways from the brain stem that and putamen. The disease is characterized by the follow- secrete norepinephrine, serotonin, enkephalin, and several ing: (1) rigidity of much of the musculature of the body; (2) 723 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology involuntary tremor at a fixed rate of 3 to 6 cycles/sec of the creted. Therefore, any dopamine that is released remains involved areas, even when the person is resting; (3) serious in the basal ganglial tissues for a longer time. In addition, difficulty in initiating movement, called akinesia; (4) pos- for reasons that are not understood, this treatment helps tural instability caused by impaired postural reflexes, lead- to slow destruction of the dopamine- secreting neurons in ing to poor balance and falls; and (5) other motor symp- the substantia nigra. Therefore, appropriate combinations toms, including dysphagia (impaired ability to swallow), of l- dopa therapy along with monoamine oxidase inhibitor speech disorders, gait disturbances, and fatigue therapy usually provide much better treatment than use of The causes of these abnormal motor effects are not one of these drugs alone. fully understood. However, the dopamine secreted in the Treatment With Transplanted Fetal Dopamine Cells. caudate nucleus and putamen is an inhibitory transmit- Transplantation of fetal dopamine- secreting brain cells ter; therefore, destruction of the dopaminergic neurons into the caudate nuclei and putamen has been used with in the substantia nigra theoretically would allow the cau- some short- term success to treat Parkinson’s disease. If per- date nucleus and putamen to become overly active and sistence could be achieved, perhaps this treatment would possibly cause continuous output of excitatory signals become the treatment of the future. to the corticospinal motor control system. These signals Huntington’s Disease (Huntington’s Chorea) could overly excite many or all of the muscles of the body, thus leading to rigidity in patients with Parkinson’s dis- Huntington’s disease is an autosomal dominant hereditary ease. disorder that usually begins causing symptoms at age 30 to Some of the feedback circuits might easily oscillate be-
