Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


with Parkinson’s dis- Huntington’s disease is an autosomal dominant hereditary ease. disorder that usually begins causing symptoms at age 30 to Some of the feedback circuits might easily oscillate be- 40 years. It is characterized at first by flicking movements cause of high feedback gains after loss of their inhibition, in individual muscles and then progressive severe distor- leading to the tremor of Parkinson’s disease. This tremor tional movements of the entire body. In addition, severe is quite different from that of cerebellar disease because it dementia develops along with the motor dysfunctions. occurs during all waking hours and therefore is an invol- The abnormal movements of Huntington’s disease are untary tremor, in contradistinction to cerebellar tremor, believed to be caused by the loss of most of the cell bodies which occurs only when the person performs intentionally of the GABA- secreting neurons in the caudate nucleus and initiated movements. putamen and the loss of acetylcholine- secreting neurons in The akinesia that occurs in Parkinson’s disease is often many parts of the brain. The axon terminals of the GABA much more distressing to the patient than are the symp- neurons normally inhibit portions of the globus pallidus toms of muscle rigidity and tremor, because a person with and substantia nigra. This loss of inhibition is believed to severe Parkinson’s disease must exert the highest degree allow spontaneous outbursts of globus pallidus and sub- of concentration to perform even the simplest movement. stantia nigra activity that cause the distortional move- The mental effort, even mental anguish, that is necessary ments. to make the desired movements is often at the limit of the Dementia in persons with Huntington’s disease prob- patient’s willpower. Then, when the movements do occur, ably does not result from the loss of GABA neurons but they are usually stiff and staccato in character instead of from the loss of acetylcholine- secreting neurons, perhaps smooth. The cause of this akinesia is still speculative. How- especially in the thinking areas of the cerebral cortex. ever, dopamine secretion in the limbic system, especially in The abnormal gene that causes Huntington’s disease has the nucleus accumbens, is often decreased, along with its been found; it has a codon (CAG) that repeats many times decrease in the basal ganglia. It has been suggested that this and codes for multiple extra glutamine amino acids in the decrease might reduce the psychic drive for motor
