Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


times decrease in the basal ganglia. It has been suggested that this and codes for multiple extra glutamine amino acids in the decrease might reduce the psychic drive for motor activity molecular structure of an abnormal neuronal cell protein so greatly that akinesia results. called huntingtin that causes the symptoms. How this pro- Nonmotor features of Parkinson’s disease include sleep tein causes the disease effects is now the question for major disturbances, depression and anxiety, autonomic dysfunc- research efforts. tion, and cognitive impairment in advanced stages. Treatment With l- Dopa. Administration of the drug l- INTEGRATION OF THE MANY PARTS OF dopa to patients with Parkinson’s disease usually amelio- THE TOTAL MOTOR CONTROL SYSTEM rates many of the motor disturbances, especially the rigid- ity and akinesia, but has little beneficial effect on nonmotor Finally, we will summarize as best we can what is known symptoms. The reason for the amelioration of motor disor- about overall control of movement. To do this, let us first ders is believed to be that l- dopa is converted in the brain give a synopsis of the different levels of control. into dopamine, and the dopamine then restores the normal balance between inhibition and excitation in the caudate SPINAL LEVEL nucleus and putamen. Administration of dopamine does not have the same effect because dopamine has a chemical Programmed in the spinal cord are local patterns of structure that will not allow it to pass through the blood– movement for all muscle areas of the body—for example, brain barrier; the slightly different structure of l- dopa al- programmed withdrawal reflexes that pull any part of the lows it to pass through this barrier. body away from a source of pain. The cord is the locus also Treatment With Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors. An- of complex patterns of rhythmic motions such as to- and- other treatment for Parkinson’s disease includes drugs fro movement of the limbs for walking, plus reciprocal that inhibit monoamine oxidase, which is responsible for motions on opposite sides of the body or of the hindlimbs destruction of most of the dopamine after it has been se- versus the forelimbs in four- legged animals. 724 Chapter 57 Cerebellum and Basal Ganglia Contributions to Overall Motor Control All these programs of the cord can be commanded into The cerebellum functions mainly when rapid muscle action by higher levels of motor control, or they can be movements
