Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Control All these programs of the cord can be commanded into The cerebellum functions mainly when rapid muscle action by higher levels of motor control, or they can be movements are required. Without the cerebellum, slow inhibited while the higher levels take over control. and calculated movements can still occur, but it is difficult for the corticospinal system to achieve rapid and chang- HINDBRAIN LEVEL ing intended movements to execute a particular goal or especially to progress smoothly from one rapid move- The hindbrain provides two major functions for general ment to the next. motor control of the body: (1) maintenance of axial tone of the body for the purpose of standing and (2) continuous Associated Functions of the Basal Ganglia. The basal modification of the degrees of tone in the different mus- ganglia are essential to motor control in ways entirely dif- cles in response to information from the vestibular appa- ferent from those of the cerebellum. Their most important ratuses for the purpose of maintaining body equilibrium. functions are (1) to help the cortex execute subconscious MOTOR CORTEX LEVEL but learned patterns of movement and (2) to help plan multiple parallel and sequential patterns of movement The motor cortex system provides most of the activating that the mind puts together to accomplish a purposeful motor signals to the spinal cord. It functions partly by issu- task. ing sequential and parallel commands that set into motion The types of motor patterns that require the basal various cord patterns of motor action. It can also change ganglia include those for writing all the different letters the intensities of the different patterns or modify their tim- of the alphabet, for throwing a ball, and for typing. Also, ing or other characteristics. When needed, the corticospi- the basal ganglia are required to modify these patterns nal system can bypass the cord patterns, replacing them for writing small or writing very large, thus controlling with higher level patterns from the brain stem or cerebral dimensions of the patterns. cortex. The cortical patterns are usually complex; also, At a still higher level of control is another combined they can be “learned,” whereas cord patterns are mainly cerebral and basal ganglia circuit, beginning in the think- determined by heredity and are said to be “hard wired.” ing processes of the cerebrum to provide overall sequen- tial steps of action for responding to each new situation,
