Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


think- determined by heredity and are said to be “hard wired.” ing processes of the cerebrum to provide overall sequen- tial steps of action for responding to each new situation, Associated Functions of the Cerebellum. The cer- such as planning one’s immediate motor response to an ebellum functions with all levels of muscle control. It assailant or one’s sequential response to an unexpectedly functions with the spinal cord especially to enhance the fond embrace. stretch reflex, so when a contracting muscle encounters an unexpectedly heavy load, a long stretch reflex signal WHAT DRIVES US TO ACTION? transmitted all the way through the cerebellum and back again to the cord strongly enhances the load-r esisting ef- What is it that arouses us from inactivity and sets into play fect of the basic stretch reflex. our trains of movement? We are beginning to learn about At the brain stem level, the cerebellum functions to the motivational systems of the brain. Basically, the brain make the postural movements of the body, especially the has an older core located beneath, anterior, and lateral to rapid movements required by the equilibrium system, the thalamus—including the hypothalamus, amygdala, hip- smooth and continuous and without abnormal oscillations. pocampus, septal region anterior to the hypothalamus and At the cerebral cortex level, the cerebellum operates thalamus, and even old regions of the thalamus and cere- in association with the cortex to provide many accessory bral cortex. All of these function together to initiate most motor functions, especially to provide extra motor force motor and other functional activities of the brain. These for turning on muscle contraction rapidly at the start of areas are collectively called the limbic system of the brain. a movement. Near the end of each movement, the cer- We discuss this system in more detail in Chapter 59. ebellum turns on antagonist muscles at exactly the right time and with proper force to stop the movement at the intended point. Furthermore, almost all aspects of this Bibliography turn- on/turn-o ff patterning by the cerebellum can be Beckinghausen J, Sillitoe RV: Insights into cerebellar development and learned with experience. connectivity. Neurosci Lett 688:2, 2019. The cerebellum functions with the cerebral cortex at Bostan AC, Strick PL: The basal ganglia and the cerebellum: nodes in still another level of motor control; it helps to program in an integrated network. Nat Rev Neurosci 19:338, 2018. Bushart DD, Shakkottai VG:
