Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Danielmeier C, Jocham G: Neurophysiology of perfor- ergic neuron transplants in Parkinson’s disease patients. Cell Rep mance monitoring and adaptive behavior. Physiol Rev 94:35, 2014. 7:1755, 2014. Zuccato C, Valenza M, Cattaneo E: Molecular mechanisms and po- Hikosaka O, Kim HF, Amita H et al: Direct and indirect pathways for tential therapeutical targets in Huntington’s disease. Physiol Rev choosing objects and actions. Eur J Neurosci 49:637, 2019. 90:905, 2010. 726 CHAPTER 5 8 Cerebral Cortex, Intellectual Functions of the Brain, Learning, and Memory It is ironic that of all the parts of the brain, we are the least rise to most of the large subcortical association fiber bun- certain about the functions of the cerebral cortex, even dles that pass from one major part of the brain to another. though it is by far the largest and perhaps the most stud- To the right in Figure 58- 1 is shown the typical orga- ied portion of the nervous system. However, we do know nization of nerve fibers within the different layers of the the effects of damage or stimulation of various portions cerebral cortex. Note particularly the large number of of the cerebral cortex. In the first part of this chapter, the horizontal fibers that extend between adjacent areas of known cortical functions are discussed, and then basic the cortex, but note also the vertical fibers that extend to theories of neuronal mechanisms involved in thought and from the cortex to lower areas of the brain and some processes, memory, analysis of sensory information, and all the way to the spinal cord or to distant regions of the so forth are presented briefly. cerebral cortex through long association bundles. The functions of the specific layers of the cerebral cor- PHYSIOLOGIC ANATOMY OF THE tex are discussed in Chapters 48 and 52. By way of review, CEREBRAL CORTEX I The functional part of the cerebral cortex is a thin layer of neurons covering the surface of all the convolutions of the cerebrum. This layer is only 2 to 5 millimeters thick, II with a total area of about 25% of a square meter. The total cerebral cortex has been estimated to contain over 80 bil- lion neurons. Figure 58- 1 shows the typical histological structure of III the neuronal surface of the cerebral cortex, with its suc- cessive layers of different types of neurons. Most of the neurons are of three
