Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the typical histological structure of III the neuronal surface of the cerebral cortex, with its suc- cessive layers of different types of neurons. Most of the neurons are of three types: (1) granular (also called stel- late); (2) fusiform; and (3) pyramidal, the latter named for IV their characteristic pyramidal shape. The granular neurons generally have short axons and, therefore, function mainly as interneurons that transmit V neural signals only short distances in the cortex. Some are excitatory, releasing mainly the excitatory neurotrans- mitter glutamate, whereas others are inhibitory and release mainly the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma- VIa aminobutyric acid (GABA). The sensory areas of the cor- tex, as well as the association areas between sensory and motor areas, have large concentrations of these granule VIb cells, suggesting a high degree of intracortical processing of incoming sensory signals within the sensory areas and association areas. The pyramidal and fusiform cells give rise to almost Figure 58- 1. Structure of the cerebral cortex, showing the following all the output fibers from the cortex. The pyramidal cells, layers: I, molecular layer; II, external granular layer; III, layer of pyramidal which are larger and more numerous than the fusiform cells; IV, internal granular layer; V, large pyramidal cell layer; and VI, cells, are the source of the long, large nerve fibers that go layer of fusiform or polymorphic cells. (Modified from Ranson SW, Clark all the way to the spinal cord. The pyramidal cells also give SL: Anatomy of the Nervous System. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1959.) 727 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Supplementary motor synergies s ntralis alis ntralis aterali N m. d eo dr iasa lislis N. ve later N. ve posterol N p. o la stt ee rr Pia ulo vl i gri ns ear nL ica ut. late E ol fa tb ho or ua gti ho tn Eye Voluntary motor Somatosensory SH s pka ein ll esd ch turning Bilateral boM de yd i. n g de en teic rmul ia nt ae te body Speech S He en as r. i I nI g vision MemS op re ye pc ah tterns Figure 58- 2. Areas of the cerebral cortex that connect with specific portions of the thalamus. N., Nerve. Contralateral vision let us recall that most incoming specific sensory signals from the body terminate in cortical layer IV. Most of the
