Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


with specific portions of the thalamus. N., Nerve. Contralateral vision let us recall that most incoming specific sensory signals from the body terminate in cortical layer IV. Most of the output signals leave the cortex through neurons located in layers V and VI, the very large fibers to the brain stem Figure 58- 3. Functional areas of the human cerebral cortex as deter- and cord arise generally in layer V, and the tremendous mined by electrical stimulation of the cortex during neurosurgical op- numbers of fibers to the thalamus arise in layer VI. Layers erations and by neurological examinations of patients with destroyed cortical regions. (Modified from Penfield W, Rasmussen T: The Cer- I, II, and III perform most of the intracortical association ebral Cortex of Man: A Clinical Study of Localization of Function. New functions, with especially large numbers of neurons in York: Hafner, 1968.) layers II and III making short horizontal connections with adjacent cortical areas. FUNCTIONS OF SPECIFIC CORTICAL AREAS ANATOMICAL AND FUNCTIONAL RELATIONS OF THE CEREBRAL CORTEX Figure 58- 3 is a map of some of the functions of differ- TO THE THALAMUS AND OTHER LOWER ent cerebral cortical areas as determined from electrical CENTERS stimulation of the cortex in awake patients or during neu- rological examination of patients after portions of their All areas of the cerebral cortex have extensive to- and- fro cortex had been removed. The electrically stimulated efferent and afferent connections with deeper structures patients told their thoughts evoked by the stimulation, of the brain. It is important to emphasize the relation and sometimes they experienced movements. Occasion- between the cerebral cortex and the thalamus. When the ally they spontaneously emitted a sound or even a word or thalamus is damaged along with the cortex, the loss of gave some other evidence of the stimulation. cerebral function is far greater than when the cortex alone Putting large amounts of information together from is damaged, because thalamic excitation of the cortex is many different sources gives a more general map, as shown necessary for almost all cortical activity. in Figure 58- 4. This figure shows the major primary and Figure 58-2 shows the areas of the cerebral cortex secondary premotor and supplementary motor areas of the that connect with specific parts of the thalamus. These cortex, as well as the major primary and secondary sensory connections act in two directions, both from the
