Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


areas of the that connect with specific parts of the thalamus. These cortex, as well as the major primary and secondary sensory connections act in two directions, both from the thal- areas for somatic sensation, vision, and hearing, all of which amus to the cortex and then from the cortex back to are discussed in earlier chapters. The primary motor areas essentially the same area of the thalamus. Furthermore, have direct connections with specific muscles for causing when the thalamic connections are cut, the functions of discrete muscle movements. The primary sensory areas the corresponding cortical area become almost entirely detect specific sensations—visual, auditory, or somatic— lost. Therefore, the cortex operates in close association transmitted to the brain from peripheral sensory organs. with the thalamus and can almost be considered both The secondary areas make sense out of the signals in the anatomically and functionally a unit with the thalamus; primary areas. For example, the supplementary and pre- for this reason, the thalamus and the cortex together are motor areas function along with the primary motor cortex sometimes called the thalamocortical system. Almost and basal ganglia to provide “patterns” of motor activity. all pathways from the sensory receptors and sensory On the sensory side, the secondary sensory areas, located organs to the cortex pass through the thalamus, with within a few centimeters of the primary areas, begin to the principal exception of some sensory pathways of analyze the meanings of the specific sensory signals, such olfaction. as the following: (1) interpretation of the shape or texture 728 Chapter 58 Cerebral Cortex, Intellectual Functions of the Brain, Learning, and Memory of an object in one’s hand; (2) interpretation of color, light structures. Yet, even the association areas have their spe- intensity, directions of lines and angles, and other aspects cializations. Important association areas include (1) the of vision; and (3) interpretations of the meanings of sound parieto- occipitotemporal association area, (2) the pre- tones and sequence of tones in the auditory signals. frontal association area, and (3) the limbic association area. ASSOCIATION AREAS Parieto- Occipitotemporal Association Area Figure 58-4 also shows several large areas of the cerebral cortex that do not fit into the rigid categories of primary The parieto-o ccipitotemporal association area lies in the and secondary motor and sensory areas. These areas are large parietal and occipital cortical space bounded by the called association areas because they receive and
