Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


association area lies in the and secondary motor and sensory areas. These areas are large parietal and occipital cortical space bounded by the called association areas because they receive and analyze somatosensory cortex anteriorly, the visual cortex posteri- signals simultaneously from multiple regions of both the orly, and the auditory cortex laterally. As would be expected, motor and sensory cortices, as well as from subcortical it provides a high level of interpretative meaning for signals from all the surrounding sensory areas. However, even the parieto-o ccipitotemporal association area has its own Supplemental Primary motor Primary somatic and premotor Secondary somatic functional subareas, which are shown in Figure 58- 5. Analysis of the Spatial Coordinates of the Body. An area beginning in the posterior parietal cortex and ex- tending into the superior occipital cortex provides con- Parieto- tinuous analysis of the spatial coordinates of all parts of occipito- Prefrontal temporal the body, as well as of the surroundings of the body. This association association area receives visual sensory information from the poste- area area rior occipital cortex and simultaneous somatosensory in- formation from the anterior parietal cortex. From all this information, it computes the coordinates of the visual, Limbic auditory, and body surroundings. association area Wernicke’s Area Is Important for Language Compre- Primary auditory Primary hension. The major area for language comprehension, visual called Wernicke’s area, lies behind the primary auditory Secondary auditory Secondary visual cortex in the posterior part of the superior gyrus of the tem- poral lobe. We discuss this area more fully later; it is one of the most important regions of the entire brain for higher Figure 58- 4. Locations of major association areas of the cerebral intellectual function because most of these intellectual cortex, as well as primary and secondary motor and sensory areas. functions are language based. Somato- sensory Motor Spatial coordinates Planning complex of body and movements and surroundings elaboration of thoughts Language Visual Word comprehension processing formation intelligence of words Auditory Naming of objects Vision BBrrooccaa’’ss AArreeaa Behavior, Figure 58- 5. Map of specific func- emotions, tional areas in the cerebral cortex, motivation showing especially Wernicke’s and LLiimmbbiicc Broca’s areas for language compre- AAssssoocciiaattiioonn WWeerrnniicckkee’’ss hension and speech production, which AArreeaa AArreeaa in 95% of all people are located in the left hemisphere. 729 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology The Angular Gyrus Area Is Needed for
