Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


95% of all people are located in the left hemisphere. 729 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology The Angular Gyrus Area Is Needed for Initial Process- terns for expressing individual words or even short phras- ing of Visual Language (Reading). Posterior to the es are initiated and executed. This area also works in close language comprehension area, lying mainly in the antero- association with the Wernicke language comprehension lateral region of the occipital lobe, is a visual association center in the temporal association cortex, as we discuss area that feeds visual information conveyed by words read more fully later in the chapter. from a book into Wernicke’s area, the language compre- An especially interesting discovery is the following: hension area. This angular gyrus area is needed to make When a person has already learned one language and meaning out of the visually perceived words. In its ab- then learns a new language, the area in the brain where sence, a person can still have excellent language compre- the new language is stored is slightly removed from the hension through hearing but not through reading; injury storage area for the first language. If both languages are to the angular gyrus can result in agraphia (inability to learned simultaneously, they are stored together in the write) with alexia (inability to read), a condition in which same area of the brain. a person cannot read, write, or spell words. Limbic Association Area Area for Naming Objects. In the most lateral portions of Figures 58- 4 and 58- 5 show still another association area the anterior occipital lobe and posterior temporal lobe is called the limbic association area. This area is found in the an area for naming objects. The names are learned mainly anterior pole of the temporal lobe, in the ventral portion through auditory input, whereas the physical natures of the of the frontal lobe, and in the cingulate gyrus lying deep objects are learned mainly through visual input. In turn, in the longitudinal fissure on the midsurface of each cere- the names are essential for both auditory and visual lan- bral hemisphere. It is concerned primarily with behav- guage comprehension (functions performed in Wernicke’s ior, emotions, and motivation. We discuss in Chapter 59 area located immediately superior to the auditory “names” that the limbic cortex is part of a much more extensive region and anterior
