Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


emotions, and motivation. We discuss in Chapter 59 area located immediately superior to the auditory “names” that the limbic cortex is part of a much more extensive region and anterior to the visual word processing area). system, the limbic system, that includes a complex set of neuronal structures in the midbasal regions of the brain. Prefrontal Association Area This limbic system provides most of the emotional drives As discussed in Chapter 57, the prefrontal association for activating other areas of the brain and even provides area functions in close association with the motor cortex motivational drive for the process of learning itself. to plan complex patterns and sequences of motor move- Area for Recognition of Faces ments. To aid in this function, it receives strong input through a massive subcortical bundle of nerve fibers con- An interesting type of brain abnormality called prosop- necting the parieto- occipitotemporal association area agnosia is the inability to recognize faces. This condi- with the prefrontal association area. Through this bundle, tion occurs in people who have extensive damage on the the prefrontal cortex receives much preanalyzed sensory medial undersides of both occipital lobes and along the information, especially information on the spatial coordi- medioventral surfaces of the temporal lobes, as shown nates of the body that is necessary for planning effective in Figure 58- 6. Loss of these face recognition areas, movements. Much of the output from the prefrontal area strangely enough, results in little other abnormality of into the motor control system passes through the caudate brain function. portion of the basal ganglia–thalamic feedback circuit for One may wonder why so much of the cerebral cortex motor planning, which provides many of the sequential should be reserved for the simple task of face recognition. and parallel components of movement stimulation. However, most of our daily tasks involve associations with The prefrontal association area is also essential to car- other people, and thus one can see the importance of this rying out “thought” processes. This characteristic presum- intellectual function. ably results from some of the same capabilities of the The occipital portion of this facial recognition area is prefrontal cortex that allow it to plan motor activities. It contiguous with the visual cortex, and the temporal por- seems to be capable of processing nonmotor and motor tion is closely associated with the limbic system that has information from widespread areas of the brain and
