Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the temporal por- seems to be capable of processing nonmotor and motor tion is closely associated with the limbic system that has information from widespread areas of the brain and to do with emotions, brain activation, and control of one’s therefore to achieve nonmotor types of thinking, as well behavioral response to the environment, as we see in as motor types. In fact, the prefrontal association area Chapter 59. is frequently described simply as important for elabora- tion of thoughts, and it is said to store on a short- term COMPREHENSIVE INTERPRETATIVE basis “working memories” that are used to combine new FUNCTION OF THE POSTERIOR SUPERIOR thoughts while they are entering the brain. TEMPORAL LOBE—”WERNICKE’S AREA” (A GENERAL INTERPRETATIVE AREA) Broca’s Area Provides the Neural Circuitry for Word Formation. Broca’s area, shown in Figure 58- 5, is located The somatic, visual, and auditory association areas all partly in the posterior lateral prefrontal cortex and partly meet one another in the posterior part of the supe- in the premotor area. It is here that plans and motor pat- rior temporal lobe, shown in Figure 58-7 , where the 730 Chapter 58 Cerebral Cortex, Intellectual Functions of the Brain, Learning, and Memory Temporal Frontal lobe lobe Occipital lobe Figure 58- 6. Facial recognition areas located on the un- derside of the brain in the medial occipital and temporal lobes. (Modified from Geschwind N: Specializations of the Facial recognition area human brain. Sci Am 241:180, 1979.) Electrical stimulation of Wernicke’s area in a con- Motor scious person occasionally causes a highly complex Primary thought, particularly when the stimulation electrode is Somatic passed deep enough into the brain to approach the corre- interpretative Prefrontal areas sponding connecting areas of the thalamus. The types of area thoughts that might be experienced include complicated Somatic Visual visual scenes that one might remember from childhood, Broca's interpretative speech areas auditory hallucinations such as a specific musical piece, area P ar uim dia tor ry y P vir si um aa lry o rer a e sove nn , i ta i ss t ba et le im eve en dt thm aa td ae c tb ivy a ta i os np e oc f i Wfic e rp ne ir cs ko en ’s. aF ro er a t ch ai ns Auditory call forth complicated memory patterns that involve more interpretative areas than one sensory
