Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


e rp ne ir cs ko en ’s. aF ro er a t ch ai ns Auditory call forth complicated memory patterns that involve more interpretative areas than one sensory modality even though most of the indi- vidual memories may be stored elsewhere. This belief is in Wernicke’s area accord with the importance of Wernicke’s area in inter- Figure 58- 7. Organization of the somatic auditory and visual asso- preting the complicated meanings of different patterns of ciation areas into a general mechanism for interpretation of sensory sensory experiences. experience. All of these feed also into Wernicke’s area, located in the posterosuperior portion of the temporal lobe. Note also the prefron- Angular Gyrus—Interpretation of Visual Information. tal area and Broca’s speech area in the frontal lobe. The angular gyrus is the most inferior portion of the pos- terior parietal lobe, lying immediately behind Wernicke’s temporal, parietal, and occipital lobes all come together. area and fusing posteriorly into the visual areas of the oc- This area of confluence of the different sensory inter- cipital lobe as well. If this region is destroyed while Wer- pretative areas is especially highly developed in the nicke’s area in the temporal lobe is still intact, the person dominant side of the brain—the left side in almost all can still interpret auditory experiences as usual, but the right- handed people—and it plays the greatest single stream of visual experiences passing into Wernicke’s area role of any part of the cerebral cortex for the higher from the visual cortex is mainly blocked. Therefore, the comprehension levels of brain function that we call person may be able to see words and even know that they intelligence. Therefore, this region has been called by dif- are words but may not be able to interpret their mean- ferent names suggestive of an area that has almost global ings. This condition is called alexia, or word blindness. importance: the general interpretative area, the gnostic The term “dyslexia” is used to describe difficulty in learn- area, the knowing area, the tertiary association area, and ing about written language, not complete word blindness. so forth. It is best known as Wernicke’s area in honor Concept of the Dominant Hemisphere of the neurologist who first described its special signifi- cance in intellectual processes. The general interpretative functions of Wernicke’s area After severe damage in Wernicke’s area, a person and the angular gyrus, as well
