Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


first described its special signifi- cance in intellectual processes. The general interpretative functions of Wernicke’s area After severe damage in Wernicke’s area, a person and the angular gyrus, as well as the functions of the might hear perfectly well and even recognize different speech and motor control areas, are usually much more words but still be unable to arrange these words into a highly developed in one cerebral hemisphere than in the coherent thought. Likewise, the person may be able to other. Therefore, this hemisphere is called the dominant read words from the printed page but be unable to recog- hemisphere. In about 95% of all people, the left hemi- nize the thought that is conveyed. sphere is the dominant one. 731 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Even at birth, the area of the cortex that will eventually The sensory area of the dominant hemisphere for inter- become Wernicke’s area is as much as 50% larger in the pretation of language is Wernicke’s area, and this area is left hemisphere than in the right in more than one-half of closely associated with both the primary and secondary neonates. Therefore, it is easy to understand why the left hearing areas of the temporal lobe. This close relation side of the brain might become dominant over the right probably results from the fact that the first introduction side. However, if for some reason this left side area is dam- to language is by way of hearing. Later in life, when visual aged or removed in very early childhood, the opposite side perception of language through the medium of reading of the brain will usually develop dominant characteristics. develops, the visual information conveyed by written The following theory can explain the capability of one words is then presumably channeled through the angular hemisphere to dominate the other hemisphere. The atten- gyrus, a visual association area, into the already developed tion of the “mind” seems to be directed to one principal Wernicke’s language interpretative area of the dominant thought at a time. Presumably, because the left posterior temporal lobe. temporal lobe at birth is usually slightly larger than the right lobe, the left side normally begins to be used to a FUNCTIONS OF THE PARIETO- greater extent than is the right side. Thereafter, because of OCCIPITOTEMPORAL CORTEX IN THE the tendency to direct one’s attention to the
