Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


be used to a FUNCTIONS OF THE PARIETO- greater extent than is the right side. Thereafter, because of OCCIPITOTEMPORAL CORTEX IN THE the tendency to direct one’s attention to the better devel- NONDOMINANT HEMISPHERE oped region, the rate of learning in the cerebral hemi- sphere that gains the first start increases rapidly, whereas When Wernicke’s area in the dominant hemisphere of in the opposite, less used side, learning remains less well an adult person is destroyed, the person normally loses developed. Therefore, the left side normally becomes almost all intellectual functions associated with language dominant over the right side. or verbal symbolism, such as the ability to read, the ability In about 95% of all people, the left temporal lobe and to perform mathematical operations, and even the ability angular gyrus become dominant, and in the remaining to think through logical problems. Many other types of 5%, either both sides develop simultaneously to have dual interpretative capabilities, some of which use the tempo- function or, more rarely, the right side alone becomes ral lobe and angular gyrus regions of the opposite hemi- highly developed, with full dominance. sphere, are retained. As discussed later in this chapter, the premotor speech Psychological studies in patients with damage to the area (Broca’s area), located far laterally in the intermedi- nondominant hemisphere have suggested that this hemi- ate frontal lobe, is also almost always dominant on the left sphere may be especially important for understanding side of the brain. This speech area is responsible for for- and interpreting music, nonverbal visual experiences mation of words by exciting simultaneously the laryngeal (especially visual patterns), spatial relations between the muscles, respiratory muscles, and muscles of the mouth. person and their surroundings, the significance of “body The motor areas for controlling hands are also domi- language” and intonations of people’s voices, and prob- nant in the left side of the brain in about 90% of persons, ably many somatic experiences related to use of the limbs thus causing right- handedness in most people. and hands. Thus, even though we speak of the “dominant” Although the interpretative areas of the temporal lobe hemisphere, this dominance is primarily for language- and angular gyrus, as well as many of the motor areas, are based intellectual functions; the so-c alled nondominant usually highly developed in only the left hemisphere, these hemisphere might actually be dominant for some other areas receive sensory
