Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


motor areas, are based intellectual functions; the so-c alled nondominant usually highly developed in only the left hemisphere, these hemisphere might actually be dominant for some other areas receive sensory information from both hemispheres types of intelligence. and are also capable of controlling motor activities in both hemispheres. For this purpose, they use mainly fiber path- HIGHER INTELLECTUAL (“EXECUTIVE”) ways in the corpus callosum for communication between FUNCTIONS OF THE PREFRONTAL the two hemispheres. This unitary, cross- feeding orga- ASSOCIATION AREAS nization prevents interference between the two sides of the brain; such interference could create havoc with both For years, it has been taught that the prefrontal cortex is mental thoughts and motor responses. the locus of “higher intellect” in the human being, princi- pally because the main difference between the brains of Role of Language in the Function of monkeys and of human beings is the great prominence Wernicke’s Area and in Intellectual of the human prefrontal areas. Yet efforts to show that Functions the prefrontal cortex is more important in higher intel- A major share of our sensory experience is converted into lectual functions than other portions of the brain have its language equivalent before being stored in the memory not been successful. Indeed, destruction of the language areas of the brain and before being processed for other comprehension area in the posterior superior temporal intellectual purposes. For example, when we read a book, lobe (Wernicke’s area) and the adjacent angular gyrus we do not store the visual images of the printed words region in the dominant hemisphere causes much more but instead store the words themselves or their conveyed harm to the intellect than does destruction of the pre- thoughts, often in language form. frontal areas. 732 Chapter 58 Cerebral Cortex, Intellectual Functions of the Brain, Learning, and Memory The prefrontal areas do, however, have less definable the capability of calling forth information from wide- but important intellectual functions of their own. Patients spread areas of the brain and using this information to with damage to the prefrontal cortex may have normal achieve deeper thought patterns for attaining goals. motor functions and may even perform normally on some Although people without prefrontal cortices can intelligence tests. However, they are unable to function still think, they show little concerted thinking in logical effectively in normal daily life. These functions can be sequence for longer than a few seconds
