Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


they are unable to function still think, they show little concerted thinking in logical effectively in normal daily life. These functions can be sequence for longer than a few seconds or a minute or so explained by describing what happens to patients in whom at most. Thus, people without prefrontal cortices are eas- the prefrontal areas have become damaged, as follows. ily distracted from their central theme of thought, whereas Several decades ago, before the advent of modern drugs people with functioning prefrontal cortices can drive for treating psychiatric conditions, it was discovered that themselves to completion of their thought goals, irrespec- some patients could receive significant relief from severe tive of distractions. psychotic depression by severing the neuronal connec- tions between the prefrontal areas of the brain and the Elaboration of Thought, Prognostication, and Per- remainder of the brain by a procedure called prefrontal formance of Higher Intellectual Functions by the lobotomy. This procedure was performed by inserting a Prefrontal Areas—Concept of a “Working Memory.” blunt, thin-b laded knife through a small opening in the Another function that has been ascribed to the prefron- lateral frontal skull on each side of the head and slicing the tal areas is elaboration of thought, which means simply brain at the back edge of the prefrontal lobes from top to an increase in depth and abstractness of the different bottom. Subsequent studies in these patients showed the thoughts put together from multiple sources of infor- following mental changes: mation. Psychological tests have shown that prefrontal 1. The patients lost their ability to solve complex prob- lobectomized lower animals presented with successive lems. bits of sensory information fail to keep track of these bits 2. They became unable to string together sequential even in temporary memory, probably because they are tasks to reach complex goals. distracted so easily that they cannot hold thoughts long 3. They became unable to learn to do several parallel enough for memory storage to take place. tasks at the same time. This ability of the prefrontal areas to keep track of many 4. Their level of aggressiveness decreased, sometimes bits of information simultaneously and to cause recall of markedly, and they often lost ambition. this information instantaneously as it is needed for sub- 5. Their social responses were often inappropriate for sequent thoughts is called the “brain’s working memory,” the occasion, often including loss of morals and lit-
