Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


it is needed for sub- 5. Their social responses were often inappropriate for sequent thoughts is called the “brain’s working memory,” the occasion, often including loss of morals and lit- which may explain the many functions of the brain that tle reticence in relation to sexual activity and excre- we associate with higher intelligence. In fact, studies have tion. shown that the prefrontal areas are divided into separate 6. The patients could still talk and comprehend lan- segments for storing different types of temporary memory, guage, but they were unable to carry through any such as one area for storing shape and form of an object long trains of thought, and their moods changed or a part of the body and another for storing movement. rapidly from sweetness to rage to exhilaration to By combining all these temporary bits of working madness. memory, we have the abilities to do the following: (1) 7. The patients could also still perform most of the prognosticate; (2) plan for the future; (3) delay action in usual patterns of motor function that they had per- response to incoming sensory signals so that the sen- formed throughout life, but often without purpose. sory information can be weighed until the best course From this information, let us try to piece together a of response is decided; (4) consider the consequences of coherent understanding of the function of the prefrontal motor actions before they are performed; (5) solve com- association areas. plicated mathematical, legal, or philosophical problems; (6) correlate all avenues of information in diagnosing Decreased Aggressiveness and Inappropriate Social rare diseases; and (7) control our activities in accord with Responses. Decreased aggressiveness and inappropriate moral laws. social responses probably result from loss of the ventral Function of the Brain in Communication—Language parts of the frontal lobes on the underside of the brain. As Input and Language Output explained earlier and as shown in Figures 58- 4 and 58- 5, Because neurological tests can easily assess the ability of a this area is part of the limbic association cortex rather person to communicate with others, we know more about than of the prefrontal association cortex. This limbic area the sensory and motor systems related to communica- helps to control behavior, which is discussed in detail in tion than about any other segment of brain cortex func- Chapter 59. tion. Therefore, with the help of anatomical maps of
