Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to control behavior, which is discussed in detail in tion than about any other segment of brain cortex func- Chapter 59. tion. Therefore, with the help of anatomical maps of neural pathways in Figure 58- 8, we will review the function of the Inability to Progress Toward Goals or to Carry cortex in communication. From this examination, one will Through Sequential Thoughts. We learned earlier in see immediately how the principles of sensory analysis and this chapter that the prefrontal association areas have motor control apply to this art. 733 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Motor cortex Motor Aspects of Communication SPEAKING A HEARD WORD Arcuate fasciculus The process of speech involves two principal stages of mentation: (1) formation in the mind of thoughts to be ex- pressed, as well as choice of words to be used; and then (2) motor control of vocalization and the actual act of vocaliza- tion itself. The formation of thoughts and even most choices of words are the function of sensory association areas of the brain. Again, it is Wernicke’s area in the posterior part of the superior temporal gyrus that is most important for this ability. There- fore, a person with either Wernicke’s aphasia or global aphasia is unable to formulate the thoughts that are to be communi- cated. Or, if the lesion is less severe, the person may be able to Broca’s area Wernicke’s area formulate the thoughts but unable to put together appropriate Primary auditory area sequences of words to express the thought. The person some- times is even fluent with words, but the words are jumbled. Motor cortex Loss of Broca’s Area Causes Motor Aphasia. Sometimes SPEAKING A WRITTEN WORD a person is capable of deciding what he or she wants to say but cannot make the vocal system emit words instead of noises. This effect, called motor aphasia, results from dam- age to Broca’s speech area, which lies in the prefrontal and premotor facial regions of the cerebral cortex—about 95% of the time in the left hemisphere, as shown in Figures 58- 5 and 58- 8. The skilled motor patterns for control of the lar- ynx, lips, mouth, respiratory system, and other accessory muscles of speech are all initiated from this area. Articulation. Finally, we have the act of articulation, Primary visual which means the muscular movements of the mouth, Broca’s area
