Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


accessory muscles of speech are all initiated from this area. Articulation. Finally, we have the act of articulation, Primary visual which means the muscular movements of the mouth, Broca’s area Angular gyrus tongue, larynx, vocal cords, and so forth that are respon- sible for the intonations, timing, and rapid changes in Wernicke’s area intensities of the sequential sounds. The facial and laryn- Figure 58- 8. Brain pathways for (top) perceiving a heard word and geal regions of the motor cortex activate these muscles, and then speaking the same word and (bottom) perceiving a written word the cerebellum, basal ganglia, and sensory cortex all help and then speaking the same word. (Modified from Geschwind N: to control the sequences and intensities of muscle contrac- Specializations of the human brain. Sci Am 241:180, 1979.) tions, making liberal use of basal ganglial and cerebellar feedback mechanisms described in Chapters 56 and 57. Communication has two aspects—the sensory (lan- Destruction of any of these regions can cause either total or guage input), involving the ears and eyes, and the motor partial inability to speak distinctly. (language output), involving vocalization and its control. Summary Sensory Aspects of Communication Figure 58- 8 shows two principal pathways for communi- We noted earlier in the chapter that destruction of portions cation. The upper half of the figure shows the pathway in- of the auditory or visual association areas of the cortex can volved in hearing and speaking. This sequence is as follows: result in the inability to understand the spoken or written (1) reception in the primary auditory area of the sound sig- word. These effects are called, respectively, auditory receptive nals that encode the words; (2) interpretation of the words aphasia and visual receptive aphasia or, more commonly, in Wernicke’s area; (3) determination, also in Wernicke’s word deafness and word blindness (also called alexia). area, of the thoughts and the words to be spoken; (4) trans- Wernicke’s Aphasia and Global Aphasia. Some people mission of signals from Wernicke’s area to Broca’s area by are capable of understanding either the spoken word or the way of the arcuate fasciculus; (5) activation of the skilled written word but are unable to interpret the thought that motor programs in Broca’s area for control of word forma- is expressed. This condition results most frequently when tion; and (6) transmission of appropriate signals into the Wernicke’s area in the posterior superior temporal
