Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


area for control of word forma- is expressed. This condition results most frequently when tion; and (6) transmission of appropriate signals into the Wernicke’s area in the posterior superior temporal gyrus in motor cortex to control the speech muscles. the dominant hemisphere is damaged or destroyed. There- The lower part of the figure illustrates the comparable fore, this type of aphasia is called Wernicke’s aphasia. steps in reading and then speaking in response. The initial When the lesion in Wernicke’s area is widespread and receptive area for the words is in the primary visual area extends (1) backward into the angular gyrus region, (2) in- rather than in the primary auditory area. The information feriorly into the lower areas of the temporal lobe, and (3) then passes through early stages of interpretation in the superiorly into the superior border of the sylvian fissure, angular gyrus region and finally reaches its full level of the person is likely to be almost totally demented for lan- recognition in Wernicke’s area. From here, the sequence is guage understanding or communication and therefore is the same as for speaking in response to the spoken word. said to have global aphasia. 734 Chapter 58 Cerebral Cortex, Intellectual Functions of the Brain, Learning, and Memory THE CORPUS CALLOSUM AND response required function of Wernicke’s area and ANTERIOR COMMISSURE TRANSFER the motor areas for speech in the left hemisphere THOUGHTS, MEMORIES, TRAINING, because these left- sided areas were necessary to AND OTHER INFORMATION BETWEEN speak the words “No way!” When asked why he said THE TWO CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES this, however, the boy could not explain it. Thus, the two halves of the brain have independent Fibers in the corpus callosum provide abundant bidirec- capabilities for consciousness, memory storage, com- tional neural connections between most of the cortical munication, and control of motor activities. The corpus areas of the two cerebral hemispheres, except for the ante- callosum is required for the two sides to operate coop- rior portions of the temporal lobes; these temporal areas, eratively at the superficial subconscious level, and the including especially the amygdala, are interconnected by anterior commissure plays an important additional role fibers that pass through the anterior commissure. in unifying the emotional responses of the two sides of One of the functions of the corpus callosum and the the brain. anterior commissure is to make information stored in the cortex of one
