Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


responses of the two sides of One of the functions of the corpus callosum and the the brain. anterior commissure is to make information stored in the cortex of one hemisphere available to corresponding THOUGHTS, CONSCIOUSNESS, AND cortical areas of the opposite hemisphere. The following MEMORY important examples illustrate such cooperation between the two hemispheres. Our most difficult problem in discussing conscious- 1. Cutting the corpus callosum blocks transfer of in- ness, thoughts, memory, and learning is that we do not formation from Wernicke’s area of the dominant know the neural mechanisms of a thought, and we know hemisphere to the motor cortex on the opposite side little about the mechanisms of memory. We know that of the brain. Therefore, the intellectual functions of destruction of large portions of the cerebral cortex does Wernicke’s area, located in the left hemisphere, lose not prevent a person from having thoughts, but it does control over the right motor cortex that initiates reduce the depth of the thoughts and also the degree of voluntary motor functions of the left hand and arm, awareness of the surroundings. even though the usual subconscious movements of Each thought certainly involves simultaneous signals the left hand and arm are normal. in many portions of the cerebral cortex, thalamus, limbic 2. Cutting the corpus callosum prevents transfer of system, and reticular formation of the brain stem. Some somatic and visual information from the right hem- basic thoughts probably depend almost entirely on lower isphere into Wernicke’s area in the left dominant centers; the thought of pain is probably a good example hemisphere. Therefore, somatic and visual informa- because electrical stimulation of the human cortex sel- tion from the left side of the body frequently fails dom elicits anything more than mild pain, whereas stimu- to reach this general interpretative area of the brain lation of certain areas of the hypothalamus, amygdala, and and thus cannot be used for decision making. mesencephalon can cause excruciating pain. Conversely, 3. Finally, people whose corpus callosum is completely a type of thought pattern that does require large involve- sectioned have two separate conscious portions of ment of the cerebral cortex is that of vision, because loss the brain. For example, in a teenage boy with a sec- of the visual cortex causes complete inability to perceive tioned corpus callosum, only the left half of his brain visual form or color. could understand
