Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


teenage boy with a sec- of the visual cortex causes complete inability to perceive tioned corpus callosum, only the left half of his brain visual form or color. could understand both the written word and the We might formulate a provisional definition of a spoken word because the left side was the dominant thought in terms of neural activity as follows. A thought hemisphere. Conversely, the right side of the brain results from a “pattern” of stimulation of many parts of could understand the written word but not the spo- the nervous system at the same time, probably involving ken word. Furthermore, the right cortex could elicit most importantly the cerebral cortex, thalamus, limbic a motor action response to the written word with- system, and upper reticular formation of the brain stem. out the left cortex ever knowing why the response This theory is called the holistic theory of thoughts and, was performed. The effect was quite different when in simplistic terms, means that the whole is greater than an emotional response was evoked in the right side the sum of its parts. The stimulated areas of the limbic of the brain: in this case, a subconscious emotional system, thalamus, and reticular formation are believed to response occurred in the left side of the brain as determine the general nature of the thought, giving it such well. This response undoubtedly occurred because qualities as pleasure, displeasure, pain, comfort, crude the areas of the two sides of the brain for emotions, modalities of sensation, localization to gross areas of the the anterior temporal cortices and adjacent areas, body, and other general characteristics. However, specific were still communicating with each other through stimulated areas of the cerebral cortex determine discrete the anterior commissure that was not sectioned. characteristics of the thought, such as (1) specific local- For example, when the command “kiss” was written ization of sensations on the surface of the body and of for the right half of his brain to see, the boy imme- objects in the fields of vision, (2) the feeling of the texture diately and with full emotion said, “No way!” This of silk, (3) visual recognition of the rectangular pattern of 735 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology a concrete block wall, and (4) other individual character- the following: (1) short-t erm memory, which includes istics that enter into
