Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology a concrete block wall, and (4) other individual character- the following: (1) short-t erm memory, which includes istics that enter into one’s overall awareness of a particular memories that last for seconds or at most minutes un- instant. Consciousness can perhaps be described as our less they are converted into longer- term memories; (2) continuing stream of awareness of either our surround- intermediate long- term memories, which last for days ings or our sequential thoughts. to weeks but then fade away; and (3) long-t erm mem- ory, which, once stored, can be recalled up to years or MEMORY—ROLES OF SYNAPTIC even a lifetime later. FACILITATION AND SYNAPTIC INHIBITION In addition to this general classification of memories, we also discussed earlier (in connection with the pre- Memories are stored in the brain by changing the basic frontal lobes) another type of memory, called “working sensitivity of synaptic transmission between neurons as memory,” which includes mainly short- term memory a result of previous neural activity. The new or facilitated that is used during the course of intellectual reason- pathways are called memory traces. They are important ing but is terminated as each stage of the problem is because once the traces are established, they can be selec- resolved. tively activated by the thinking mind to reproduce the Memories are frequently classified according to the memories. type of information that is stored. One of these classifica- Experiments in lower animals have demonstrated that tions divides memory into declarative memory and skill memory traces can occur at all levels of the nervous sys- memory, as follows: tem. Even spinal cord reflexes can change at least slightly 1. Declarative memory basically means memory of in response to repetitive cord activation, and these reflex the various details of an integrated thought, such as changes are part of the memory process. Also, long- term memory of an important experience that includes memories result from changed synaptic conduction in memory of the following: (1) the surroundings; (2) lower brain centers. However, most memory that we time relationships, (3) causes of the experience; (4) associate with intellectual processes is based on memory meaning of the experience; and (5) the deductions traces in the cerebral cortex. that were left in the person’s mind. 2. Skill memory is frequently associated with mo- Positive and Negative Memory—“Sensitization” or tor activities of the person’s
