Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


traces in the cerebral cortex. that were left in the person’s mind. 2. Skill memory is frequently associated with mo- Positive and Negative Memory—“Sensitization” or tor activities of the person’s body, such as all the “Habituation” of Synaptic Transmission. Although skills developed for hitting a tennis ball, includ- we often think of memories as being positive recollec- ing automatic memories to (1) sight the ball, (2) tions of previous thoughts or experiences, probably the calculate the relationship and speed of the ball to greater share of our memories is negative, not positive. the racquet, and (3) deduce rapidly the motions That is, our brain is inundated with sensory information of the body, the arms, and the racquet required to from all our senses. If our minds attempted to remember hit the ball as desired—with all of these skills ac- all this information, the memory capacity of the brain tivated instantly based on previous learning of the would be rapidly exceeded. Fortunately, the brain has game—and then moving on to the next stroke of the capability to ignore information that is of no con- the game while forgetting the details of the previ- sequence. This capability results from inhibition of the ous stroke. synaptic pathways for this type of information; the re- sulting effect is called habituation, which is a type of SHORT- TERM MEMORY negative memory. Conversely, for incoming information that causes Short- term memory is typified by one’s memory of 7 to 10 important consequences such as pain or pleasure, the numerals in a telephone number (or 7 to 10 other discrete brain has a different automatic capability of enhancing facts) for a few seconds to a few minutes at a time but last- and storing the memory traces, which is positive mem- ing only as long as the person continues to think about the ory. It results from facilitation of the synaptic pathways, numbers or facts. and the process is called memory sensitization. As we Many physiologists have suggested that this short- term discuss later, special areas in the basal limbic regions of memory is caused by continual neural activity resulting the brain determine whether information is important or from nerve signals that travel around and around a tem- unimportant and make the subconscious decision about porary memory trace in a circuit of reverberating neurons. whether to store the thought as a sensitized memory trace It has not
