Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tem- unimportant and make the subconscious decision about porary memory trace in a circuit of reverberating neurons. whether to store the thought as a sensitized memory trace It has not yet been possible to prove this theory. Another or to suppress it. possible explanation of short- term memory is presynaptic facilitation or inhibition, which occurs at synapses that lie Classification of Memories. We know that some on terminal nerve fibrils immediately before these fibrils memories last for only a few seconds, whereas others synapse with a subsequent neuron. The neurotransmitter last for hours, days, months, or years. For the purpose chemicals secreted at such terminals frequently cause facil- of discussing these types of memories, we can use a itation or inhibition lasting for seconds up to several min- common classification that divides memories into utes. Circuits of this type could lead to short- term memory. 736 Chapter 58 Cerebral Cortex, Intellectual Functions of the Brain, Learning, and Memory Noxious without further stimulation of the facilitator terminal. stimulus Thus, the noxious stimulus causes the memory pathway FFaacciilliittaattoorr through the sensory terminal to become facilitated for tteerrmmiinnaall days or weeks thereafter. It is especially interesting that Serotonin even after habituation has occurred, this pathway can be Sensory converted back to a facilitated pathway with only a few stimulus noxious stimuli. ccAAMMPP Molecular Mechanism of Intermediate SSeennssoorryy tteerrmmiinnaall Memory Calcium Calcium Mechanism for Habituation. At the molecular level, channels ions the habituation effect in the sensory terminal results Figure 58- 9. Memory system that has been discovered in the snail from progressive closure of calcium channels through the Aplysia. cAMP, Cyclic adenosine monophosphate. terminal membrane, although the cause of this calcium channel closure is not fully known. Nevertheless, much smaller than normal amounts of calcium ions can diffuse INTERMEDIATE LONG- TERM MEMORY into the habituated terminal, and much less sensory ter- minal transmitter is therefore released because calcium Intermediate long- term memories may last for many entry is the principal stimulus for transmitter release (as minutes or even weeks. They will eventually be lost unless was discussed in Chapter 46). the memory traces are activated enough to become more permanent; then they are classified as long- term memo- Mechanism for Facilitation. In the case of facilitation, ries. Experiments in animals have demonstrated that at least part of the molecular mechanism is believed to be memories of the intermediate long- term type can result
