Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


case of facilitation, ries. Experiments in animals have demonstrated that at least part of the molecular mechanism is believed to be memories of the intermediate long- term type can result the following: from temporary chemical or physical changes, or both, in 1. Stimulation of the facilitator presynaptic terminal at either the synapse presynaptic terminals or the synapse the same time that the sensory terminal is stimulat- postsynaptic membrane, changes that can persist for a ed causes serotonin release at the facilitator synapse few minutes up to several weeks. These mechanisms are on the surface of the sensory terminal. so important that they deserve special description. 2. The serotonin acts on serotonin receptors in the Memory Based on Chemical Changes in sensory terminal membrane, and these receptors Presynaptic Terminals or Postsynaptic activate the enzyme adenyl cyclase inside the mem- Neuronal Membranes brane. The adenyl cyclase then causes formation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), also in- Figure 58- 9 shows a mechanism of memory studied side the sensory presynaptic terminal. especially by Eric Kandel and his colleagues that can cause 3. The cAMP activates a protein kinase that causes memories lasting from a few minutes up to 3 weeks in the phosphorylation of a protein that is part of the po- large snail Aplysia. In Figure 58- 9, there are two synaptic tassium channels in the sensory synaptic terminal terminals. One terminal, which is from a sensory input membrane; this in turn blocks the channels for neuron, terminates directly on the surface of the neuron potassium conductance. The blockage can last for that is to be stimulated and is called the sensory termi- minutes up to several weeks. nal. The other terminal, a presynaptic ending that lies on 4. Lack of potassium conductance causes a greatly the surface of the sensory terminal, is called the facilita- prolonged action potential in the synaptic terminal tor terminal. When the sensory terminal is stimulated because flow of potassium ions out of the terminal repeatedly but without stimulation of the facilitator ter- is necessary for rapid recovery from the action po- minal, signal transmission at first is great, but it becomes tential. less and less intense with repeated stimulation until trans- 5. The prolonged action potential causes prolonged mission almost ceases. This phenomenon is habituation, activation of the calcium channels, allowing tre- as was explained previously. It is a type of negative mem- mendous quantities of
