Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


causes prolonged mission almost ceases. This phenomenon is habituation, activation of the calcium channels, allowing tre- as was explained previously. It is a type of negative mem- mendous quantities of calcium ions to enter the ory that causes the neuronal circuit to lose its response to sensory synaptic terminal. These calcium ions cause repeated events that are insignificant. greatly increased transmitter release by the synapse, Conversely, if a noxious stimulus excites the facilita- thereby markedly facilitating synaptic transmission tor terminal at the same time that the sensory terminal to the subsequent neuron. is stimulated, instead of the transmitted signal into the Thus, in a very indirect way, the associative effect of postsynaptic neuron becoming progressively weaker, stimulating the facilitator terminal at the same time that the ease of transmission becomes stronger and stron- the sensory terminal is stimulated causes prolonged ger. It will remain strong for minutes, hours, days, or, increase in excitatory sensitivity of the sensory terminal, with more intense training, up to about 3 weeks even which establishes the memory trace. 737 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Additional studies in the snail Aplysia have suggested within a few weeks. Thus, the number of neuronal con- still another mechanism of synaptic memory. These stud- nections is determined by specific nerve growth factors ies have shown that stimuli from separate sources acting released retrogradely from the stimulated cells. Further- on a single neuron, under appropriate conditions, can more, when insufficient connectivity occurs, the entire cause long- term changes in membrane properties of the neuron that is sending out the axon branches might even- postsynaptic neuron instead of in the presynaptic neuro- tually disappear. nal membrane, but leading to essentially the same mem- Therefore, soon after birth, the principle of “use it or ory effects. lose it” governs the final number of neurons and their connectivities in respective parts of the human nervous LONG- TERM MEMORY system. This is a type of learning. For example, if one eye of a newborn animal is covered for many weeks after No obvious demarcation exists between the more pro- birth, neurons in alternate stripes of the cerebral visual longed types of intermediate long- term memory and true cortex—neurons normally connected to the covered long- term memory. The distinction is one of degree. How- eye—will degenerate, and the covered eye will remain ever, long- term memory is generally
