Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cortex—neurons normally connected to the covered long- term memory. The distinction is one of degree. How- eye—will degenerate, and the covered eye will remain ever, long- term memory is generally believed to result either partially or totally blind for the remainder of life. from actual structural changes, instead of only chemical Until recently, it was believed that very little “learning” changes, at the synapses, and these changes enhance or is achieved in adult human beings and animals by modi- suppress signal conduction. Again, let us recall experi- fication of numbers of neurons in the memory circuits; ments in primitive animals (where the nervous systems however, recent research suggests that even adults use are much easier to study) that have aided immensely this mechanism at least to some extent. in understanding possible mechanisms of long- term memory. CONSOLIDATION OF MEMORY Structural Changes Occur in Synapses For short- term memory to be converted into long- term During Development of Long- Term memory that can be recalled weeks or years later, it must Memory become “consolidated.” That is, the short- term memory, if Electron microscopic pictures taken from invertebrate activated repeatedly, will initiate chemical, physical, and animals have demonstrated multiple physical structural anatomical changes in the synapses that are responsible changes in many synapses during development of long- for the long- term type of memory. This process requires term memory traces. The structural changes will not 5 to 10 minutes for minimal consolidation and 1 hour or occur if a drug is given that blocks protein synthesis in more for strong consolidation which requires synthesis of the presynaptic neuron, nor will the permanent memory messenger RNA and proteins in the neurons. For exam- trace develop. Therefore, it appears that development of ple, if a strong sensory impression is made on the brain true long- term memory depends on physically restruc- but is then followed within a minute or so by an electri- turing the synapses in a way that changes their sensitivity cally induced brain convulsion, the sensory experience for transmitting nervous signals. will not be remembered. Likewise, brain concussion, sud- The following important structural changes occur: den application of deep general anesthesia, or any other 1. An increase in vesicle release sites for secretion of effect that temporarily blocks the dynamic function of the transmitter substance brain can prevent consolidation. 2. An increase in the number of transmitter vesicles Consolidation and the
