Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


for secretion of effect that temporarily blocks the dynamic function of the transmitter substance brain can prevent consolidation. 2. An increase in the number of transmitter vesicles Consolidation and the time required for it to occur can released probably be explained by the phenomenon of rehearsal 3. An increase in the number of presynaptic terminals of the short- term memory, as described in the following 4. Changes in structures of the dendritic spines that section. permit transmission of stronger signals Thus, in several different ways, the structural capability Rehearsal Enhances the Transference of Short- Term of synapses to transmit signals appears to increase during Memory Into Long- Term Memory. Studies have shown establishment of true long- term memory traces. that rehearsal of the same information again and again in the mind accelerates and potentiates the degree of trans- Number of Neurons and Their fer of short- term memory into long- term memory and Connectivities Often Change Significantly therefore accelerates and enhances consolidation. The During Learning brain has a natural tendency to rehearse newfound infor- During the first few weeks, months, and perhaps even mation, especially newfound information that catches the a year or more of life, various parts of the brain pro- mind’s attention. Therefore, over a period of time, the im- duce many new neurons that send out numerous axon portant features of sensory experiences become progres- branches to make connections with other neurons. If sively more and more fixed in the memory stores. This the new axons fail to connect with appropriate neurons, phenomenon explains why a person can remember small muscle cells, or gland cells, the new axons will degenerate amounts of information studied in depth far better than 738 Chapter 58 Cerebral Cortex, Intellectual Functions of the Brain, Learning, and Memory large amounts of information studied only superficially. It Retrograde Amnesia—Inability to Recall Memories also explains why a person who is wide awake can consoli- From the Past After Hippocampal or Thalmic Lesions. date memories far better than a person who is in a state When retrograde amnesia occurs, there is a loss of mem- of mental fatigue. ory access to events and information learned prior to an injury or disease that caused the amnesia. New Memories Are Codified During Consolidation. In some people who have hippocampal lesions, some One of the most important features of consolidation is degree of retrograde amnesia occurs along with antero-
