Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Memories Are Codified During Consolidation. In some people who have hippocampal lesions, some One of the most important features of consolidation is degree of retrograde amnesia occurs along with antero- that new memories are codified into different classes of grade amnesia, which suggests that these two types of information. During this process, similar types of infor- amnesia are at least partially related and that hippocam- mation are pulled from the memory storage bins and used pal lesions can cause both. However, damage in some tha- to help process the new information. The new and old are lamic areas may lead specifically to retrograde amnesia compared for similarities and differences, and part of the without causing significant anterograde amnesia. A possi- storage process is to store the information about these ble explanation of this is that the thalamus may play a role similarities and differences, rather than to store the new in helping the person “search” the memory storehouses information unprocessed. Thus, during consolidation, the and thus “read out” the memories. That is, the memory new memories are not stored randomly in the brain but process not only requires the storing of memories but also are stored in direct association with other memories of an ability to search and find the memory at a later date. the same type. This process is necessary for one to be able The possible function of the thalamus in this process is to “search” the memory store at a later date to find the discussed further in Chapter 59. required information. Hippocampi Are Not Important in Reflexive Learning. Role of the Hippocampus and Other Brain People with hippocampal lesions usually do not have dif- Regions in Memory ficulty in learning physical skills that do not involve ver- Anterograde Amnesia—Inability to Create New De- balization or symbolic types of intelligence. For example, clarative Long-T erm Memories After Hippocampal these people can still learn the rapid hand and physical Lesions. The hippocampus is the most medial portion skills required in many types of sports. This type of learn- of the temporal lobe cortex, where it folds first medially ing is called skill learning or reflexive learning; it depends underneath the brain and then upward into the lower, in- on physically repeating the required tasks over and over side surface of the lateral ventricle. The two hippocampi again, rather than on symbolic rehearsing in the mind. have been
