Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in- on physically repeating the required tasks over and over side surface of the lateral ventricle. The two hippocampi again, rather than on symbolic rehearsing in the mind. have been removed for the treatment of epilepsy in a few patients. This procedure does not seriously affect the per- Bibliography son’s memory for information stored in the brain before Asok A, Leroy F, Rayman JB, Kandel ER: Molecular mechanisms of the removal of the hippocampi. However, after removal, these memory trace. Trends Neurosci 42:14, 2019. people have virtually no capability thereafter for storing Constantinidis C, Klingberg T: The neuroscience of working memory verbal and symbolic types of memories (declarative types capacity and training. Nat Rev Neurosci 17:438, 2016. of memory) in long- term memory or even in intermedi- Duszkiewicz AJ, McNamara CG, Takeuchi T, Genzel L: Novelty and dopaminergic modulation of memory persistence: a tale of two ate memory lasting longer than a few minutes. Therefore, systems. Trends Neurosci 42:102, 2019. these people are unable to create new long- term memo- Eichenbaum H: Prefrontal-h ippocampal interactions in episodic mem- ries of those types of information that are the basis of in- ory. Nat Rev Neurosci 18:547, 2017. telligence. This condition is called anterograde amnesia. Fernández G, Morris RGM: Memory, novelty and prior knowledge. But why are the hippocampi so important in helping Trends Neurosci 41:654, 2018. Friederici AD: The brain basis of language processing: from structure the brain to store new memories? The probable answer is to function. Physiol Rev 91:1357, 2011. that the hippocampi are among the most important out- Gazzaniga MS: The human brain is actually two brains, each capa- put pathways from the “reward” and “punishment” areas ble of advanced mental functions. When the cerebrum is divided of the limbic system, as explained in Chapter 59. Sensory surgically, it is as if the cranium contained two separate spheres of stimuli or thoughts that cause pain or aversion excite the consciousness. Sci Am 217:24, 1967. Haggard P: Sense of agency in the human brain. Nat Rev Neurosci limbic punishment centers, and stimuli that cause pleasure, 18:196, 2017. happiness, or sense of reward excite the limbic reward Holtmaat A, Caroni P: Functional and structural underpinnings of centers. All these together provide the background mood neuronal assembly formation in learning. Nat Neurosci 19:1553, and motivations of the person. Among these motivations 2016. is the drive in the brain to remember those
