Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


L, Fabbri-D estro M, Rozzi S: Cortical mecha- 17:450, 2016. nisms underlying the organization of goal- directed actions and mir- Volz LJ, Gazzaniga MS: Interaction in isolation: 50 years of insights ror neuron-b ased action understanding. Physiol Rev 94:655, 2014. from split- brain research. Brain 140:2051, 2017. 740 CHAPTER 5 9 The Limbic System and the Hypothalamus— Behavioral and Motivational Mechanisms of the Brain Control of behavior is a function of the entire nervous to the spinal cord to maintain tone in the antigravity system. Even the wakefulness and sleep cycle discussed muscles and to control levels of activity of the spinal cord in Chapter 60 is one of our most important behavioral reflexes. In addition to these downward signals, this area patterns. also sends a profusion of signals in the upward direction. In this chapter, we deal first with the mechanisms that Most of these signals go first to the thalamus, where they control activity levels in different parts of the brain. Then excite a different set of neurons that transmit nerve sig- we discuss the causes of motivational drives, especially nals to all regions of the cerebral cortex, as well as to mul- motivational control of the learning process and feelings tiple subcortical areas. of pleasure and punishment. These functions of the ner- The signals passing through the thalamus are of two vous system are performed mainly by the basal regions types. One type is rapidly transmitted action potentials of the brain, which together are loosely called the limbic that excite the cerebrum for only a few milliseconds. system, meaning the “border” system. These signals originate from large neuronal cell bodies that lie throughout the brain stem reticular area. Their ACTIVATING—DRIVING SYSTEMS nerve endings release the neurotransmitter acetylcholine, OF THE BRAIN which serves as an excitatory agent that lasts for only a few milliseconds before it is destroyed. Without continuous transmission of nerve signals from The second type of excitatory signal originates from the lower brain into the cerebrum, the cerebrum becomes large numbers of small neurons spread throughout the useless. In fact, severe compression of the brain stem at brain stem reticular excitatory area. Again, most of these the juncture between the mesencephalon and cerebrum, signals pass to the thalamus, but through small, slowly as sometimes results from a pineal tumor, often causes conducting fibers that synapse mainly in the intralami- the person to enter into unremitting
