Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to the thalamus, but through small, slowly as sometimes results from a pineal tumor, often causes conducting fibers that synapse mainly in the intralami- the person to enter into unremitting coma lasting for the nar nuclei of the thalamus and in the reticular nuclei over remainder of his or her life. the surface of the thalamus. From here, additional small Nerve signals in the brain stem activate the cerebrum fibers are distributed throughout the cerebral cortex. The in two ways: (1) by directly stimulating a background level excitatory effect caused by this system of fibers can build of neuronal activity in wide areas of the brain and (2) by up progressively for many seconds to a minute or more, activating neurohormonal systems that release specific which suggests that its signals are especially important for facilitory or inhibitory hormone- like neurotransmitters controlling the longer term background excitability level into selected areas of the brain. of the brain. Excitation of the Reticular Excitatory Area by Periph- CONTROL OF CEREBRAL ACTIVITY BY eral Sensory Signals. The level of activity of the reticular CONTINUOUS EXCITATORY SIGNALS excitatory area in the brain stem, and therefore the level FROM THE BRAIN STEM of activity of the entire brain, is determined to a great ex- Reticular Excitatory Area of the Brain tent by the number and type of sensory signals that en- Stem—a Driver of Brain Activity ter the brain from the periphery. Pain signals in particu- lar increase activity in this excitatory area and therefore Figure 59- 1 shows a general system for controlling the strongly excite the brain to attention. activity level of the brain. The central driving component The importance of sensory signals in activating the of this system is an excitatory area located in the reticular excitatory area is demonstrated by the effect of cutting substance of the pons and mesencephalon. This area is also the brain stem above the point where the fifth cerebral called the bulboreticular facilitory area. We also discuss nerves enter the pons. These nerves are the highest nerves this area in Chapter 56 because it is the same brain stem entering the brain that transmit significant numbers of reticular area that transmits facilitory signals downward 741 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Thalamus of the cortex. Furthermore, signals regularly reverberate back and forth between the thalamus and the cerebral cortex, with the
