Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Thalamus of the cortex. Furthermore, signals regularly reverberate back and forth between the thalamus and the cerebral cortex, with the thalamus exciting the cortex and the cor- tex then re- exciting the thalamus via return fibers. Acti- vation of these back- and- forth reverberation signals has been suggested to establish long- term memories. Whether the thalamus also functions to call forth specific memories from the cortex or to activate specific thought processes is still unclear, but the thalamus does have appropriate neuronal circuitry for these purposes. A Reticular Inhibitory Area Is Located in the Lower Brain Stem Figure 59- 1 shows another area that is important in Excitatory area controlling brain activity—the reticular inhibitory area, located medially and ventrally in the medulla. In Chapter Fifth cranial nerve 56, we learned that this area can inhibit the reticular facil- Inhibitory area itory area of the upper brain stem and thereby decrease activity in the superior portions of the brain. One of the mechanisms for this activity is to excite serotonergic neu- rons, which in turn secrete the inhibitory neurohormone serotonin at crucial points in the brain; we discuss this Figure 59- 1 The excitatory- activating system of the brain. Also concept in more detail later. shown is an inhibitory area in the medulla that can inhibit or depress the activating system. NEUROHORMONAL CONTROL OF BRAIN ACTIVITY somatosensory signals into the brain. When all these input sensory signals are gone, the level of activity in the Aside from direct control of brain activity by specific brain excitatory area diminishes abruptly, and the brain transmission of nerve signals from the lower brain areas proceeds instantly to a state of greatly reduced activity, to the cortical regions of the brain, still another physi- approaching a permanent state of coma. However, when ological mechanism is often used to control brain activity. the brain stem is transected below the fifth nerves, which This mechanism is to secrete excitatory or inhibitory neu- leaves much input of sensory signals from the facial and rotransmitter hormonal agents into the substance of the oral regions, the coma is averted. brain. These neurohormones often persist for minutes or hours and thereby provide long periods of control, rather Increased Activity of the Excitatory Area Caused than just instantaneous activation or inhibition. by Feedback Signals Returning From the Cerebral Figure 59- 2 shows
