Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


provide long periods of control, rather Increased Activity of the Excitatory Area Caused than just instantaneous activation or inhibition. by Feedback Signals Returning From the Cerebral Figure 59- 2 shows three neurohormonal systems that Cortex. Not only do excitatory signals pass to the cerebral have been studied in detail in the rat brain: (1) a norepi- cortex from the bulboreticular excitatory area of the brain nephrine system, (2) a dopamine system, and (3) a sero- stem, but feedback signals also return from the cerebral tonin system. Norepinephrine usually functions as an cortex back to this same area. Therefore, any time the cer- excitatory hormone, whereas serotonin is usually inhibi- ebral cortex becomes activated by brain thought process- tory and dopamine is excitatory in some areas but inhibi- es or by motor processes, signals are sent from the cortex tory in others. As would be expected, these three systems to the brain stem excitatory area, which in turn sends still have different effects on levels of excitability in different more excitatory signals to the cortex. This process helps parts of the brain. The norepinephrine system spreads to to maintain the level of excitation of the cerebral cortex or virtually every area of the brain, whereas the serotonin even to enhance it. This is a positive feedback mechanism and dopamine systems are directed much more to spe- that allows any beginning activity in the cerebral cortex cific brain regions—the dopamine system mainly into the to support still more activity, thus leading to an “awake” basal ganglial regions and the serotonin system more into mind. the midline structures. The Thalamus Is a Distribution Center That Controls Neurohormonal Systems in the Human Brain. Figure Activity in Specific Regions of the Cortex. As pointed 59- 3 shows the brain stem areas in the human brain for out in Chapter 58, almost every area of the cerebral cortex activating four neurohormonal systems, the same three connects with its own highly specific area in the thalamus. discussed for the rat and one other, the acetylcholine sys- Therefore, electrical stimulation of a specific point in the tem. Some of the specific functions of these systems are thalamus generally activates its own specific small region as follows. 742 Chapter 59 The Limbic System and the Hypothalamus—Behavioral and Motivational Mechanisms of the Brain Cerebellum To diencephalon and cerebrum Cerebral cortex Substantia nigra (dopamine) Mesencephalon Gigantocellular To cerebellum Brain stem neurons
