Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


59 The Limbic System and the Hypothalamus—Behavioral and Motivational Mechanisms of the Brain Cerebellum To diencephalon and cerebrum Cerebral cortex Substantia nigra (dopamine) Mesencephalon Gigantocellular To cerebellum Brain stem neurons of Olfactory reticular formation region Basal brain areas (acetylcholine) Pons Locus ceruleus NOREPINEPHRINE Locus ceruleus (norepinephrine) Frontal Nuclei of the raphe cortex Cingulate (serotonin) cortex Caudate nucleus Medulla To cord DOPAMINE Figure 59- 3 Multiple centers in the brain stem. These neurons se- crete different transmitter substances (specified in parentheses). The Cerebral cortex n ebeu ruro mn as ns den dd o c wo nn wtr ao rl d s i ig nn toa l ts h u ep sw pa inr ad l i cn oto rd t .he diencephalon and cer- areas of the brain, especially to the hypothalamus and the limbic system. The dopamine is believed to act as an inhibitory transmitter in the basal ganglia, but in some other areas of the brain it is possibly excitatory. SEROTONIN Midline nuclei Also, remember from Chapter 57 that destruction of the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra is Figure 59- 2 Three neurohormonal systems that have been mapped in the rat brain—a norepinephrine system, a dopamine system, and a the basic cause of Parkinson’s disease. serotonin system. (Modified from Kandel ER, Schwartz JH [eds]: Prin- 3. The raphe nuclei and the serotonin system. In the mid- ciples of Neural Science, 2nd ed. New York: Elsevier, 1985.) line of the pons and medulla are several thin nuclei called the raphe nuclei. Many of the neurons in these 1. The locus ceruleus and the norepinephrine system. nuclei secrete serotonin. They send fibers into the di- The locus ceruleus is a small area located bilaterally encephalon and a few fibers to the cerebral cortex; still and posteriorly at the juncture between the pons and other fibers descend to the spinal cord. The serotonin mesencephalon. Nerve fibers from this area spread secreted at the cord fiber endings has the ability to throughout the brain, the same as shown for the rat suppress pain, which was discussed in Chapter 49. The in the top frame of Figure 59- 2, and they secrete nor- serotonin released in the diencephalon and cerebrum epinephrine. The norepinephrine generally excites almost certainly plays an essential inhibitory role to the brain to increased activity. However, it has inhibi- help cause normal sleep, as we discuss in Chapter 60. tory
