Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


generally excites almost certainly plays an essential inhibitory role to the brain to increased activity. However, it has inhibi- help cause normal sleep, as we discuss in Chapter 60. tory effects in a few brain areas because of inhibitory 4. The gigantocellular neurons of the reticular excitatory receptors at certain neuronal synapses. Chapter 60 area and the acetylcholine system. We previously dis- describes how this system probably plays an impor- cussed the gigantocellular neurons (giant cells) in the tant role in causing dreaming, thus leading to a type reticular excitatory area of the pons and mesencepha- of sleep called rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. lon. The fibers from these large cells divide immedi- 2. The substantia nigra and the dopamine system. The ately into two branches, one passing upward to the substantia nigra is discussed in Chapter 57 in relation higher levels of the brain and the other passing down- to the basal ganglia. It lies anteriorly in the superior ward through the reticulospinal tracts into the spinal mesencephalon, and its neurons send nerve endings cord. The neurohormone secreted at their terminals mainly to the caudate nucleus and putamen of the is acetylcholine. In most places, the acetylcholine cerebrum, where they secrete dopamine. Other neu- functions as an excitatory neurotransmitter. Activa- rons located in adjacent regions also secrete dopa- tion of these acetylcholine neurons leads to an acutely mine, but they send their endings into more ventral awake and excited nervous system. 743 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Cingulate gyrus and cingulum Stria medullaris thalami Indusium griseum Body of fornix and longitudinal striae Dorsal fornix Septum pellucidum (supracommissural septum) Anterior nuclear Mamillothalamic group of thalamus tract Anterior commissure Mamillotegmental tract Subcallosal gyrus Isthmus Paraterminal gyrus (precommissural Gyrus septum) fasciolaris Orbitofrontal cortex Fimbria Prehippocampal rudiment of fornix Paraolfactory area Stria terminalis Olfactory bulb Hypothalamus Connecting spinal cord Column of fornix Hippocampus (postcommissural fornix) Dentate gyrus Uncus Amygdaloid body Parahippocampal gyrus Mamillary body Figure 59- 4 Anatomy of the limbic system, shown in the dark pink area. (Modified from Warwick R, Williams PL: Gray’s Anatomy, 35th ed. London: Longman Group Ltd, 1973.) Other Neurotransmitters and Neurohormonal Sub- collectively called vegetative functions of the brain, and stances Secreted in the Brain. Without describing their their control is closely related to behavior. function, the following is a partial list of still other neuro- hormonal substances that function
