Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


stances Secreted in the Brain. Without describing their their control is closely related to behavior. function, the following is a partial list of still other neuro- hormonal substances that function either at specific syn- FUNCTIONAL ANATOMY OF THE LIMBIC apses or by release into the fluids of the brain: enkepha- SYSTEM—KEY POSITION OF THE lins, gamma-a minobutyric acid, glutamate, vasopressin, HYPOTHALAMUS adrenocorticotropic hormone, α- melanocyte stimulating hormone (α- MSH), neuropeptide- Y (NPY), epinephrine, Figure 59- 4 shows the anatomical structures of the lim- histamine, endorphins, angiotensin II, and neurotensin. bic system, demonstrating that they are an interconnected Thus, there are multiple neurohormonal systems in the complex of basal brain elements. Located in the middle of brain, the activation of each of which plays its own role in all these structures is the extremely small hypothalamus, controlling a different quality of brain function. which from a physiological point of view is one of the cen- tral elements of the limbic system. Figure 59- 5 illustrates LIMBIC SYSTEM schematically this key position of the hypothalamus in the limbic system and shows other subcortical structures of The word “limbic” means “border.” Originally, the term the limbic system surrounding it, including the septum, “limbic” was used to describe the border structures paraolfactory area, anterior nucleus of the thalamus, por- around the basal regions of the cerebrum, but as we have tions of the basal ganglia, hippocampus, and amygdala. learned more about the functions of the limbic system, Surrounding the subcortical limbic areas is the lim- the term limbic system has been expanded to mean the bic cortex, composed of a ring of cerebral cortex on each entire neuronal circuitry that controls emotional behavior side of the brain—(1) beginning in the orbitofrontal area and motivational drives. on the ventral surface of the frontal lobes, (2) extend- A major part of the limbic system is the hypothala- ing upward into the subcallosal gyrus, (3) then over the mus, with its related structures. In addition to their roles top of the corpus callosum onto the medial aspect of the in behavioral control, these areas control many internal cerebral hemisphere in the cingulate gyrus, and finally conditions of the body, such as body temperature, osmo- (4) passing behind the corpus callosum and downward lality of the body fluids, and the drives to eat and drink onto the ventromedial surface of the temporal lobe to the and to control
