Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the corpus callosum and downward lality of the body fluids, and the drives to eat and drink onto the ventromedial surface of the temporal lobe to the and to control body weight. These internal functions are parahippocampal gyrus and uncus. 744 Chapter 59 The Limbic System and the Hypothalamus—Behavioral and Motivational Mechanisms of the Brain limbic system. In turn, the hypothalamus and its closely allied structures send output signals in three directions: Cingulate gyrus (1) backward and downward to the brain stem, mainly into the reticular areas of the mesencephalon, pons, and Portions Anterior Subcallosal medulla, and from these areas into the peripheral nerves Septum of basal nuclei of gyrus of the autonomic nervous system; (2) upward toward area ganglia thalamus many higher areas of the diencephalon and cerebrum, especially to the anterior thalamus and limbic portions Paraolfactory Hypothalamus Orbitofrontal area of the cerebral cortex; and (3) into the hypothalamic cortex Hippocampus infundibulum to control or partially control most of the Uncus secretory functions of both the posterior and the ante- Amygdala rior pituitary glands. Thus, the hypothalamus, which represents less than 1% Parahippocampal gyrus of the brain mass, is one of the most important of the con- trol pathways of the limbic system. It controls most of the vegetative and endocrine functions of the body and many Figure 59- 5 The limbic system, showing the key position of the hy- pothalamus. aspects of emotional behavior. VEGETATIVE AND ENDOCRINE CONTROL Thus, on the medial and ventral surfaces of each cere- FUNCTIONS OF THE HYPOTHALAMUS bral hemisphere is a ring of mostly paleocortex that sur- rounds a group of deep structures intimately associated The different hypothalamic mechanisms for controlling with overall behavior and emotions. In turn, this ring of multiple functions of the body are so important that they limbic cortex functions as a two- way communication and are discussed in multiple chapters throughout this text. association linkage between the neocortex and the lower For example, the role of the hypothalamus to help regu- limbic structures. late arterial pressure is discussed in Chapter 18, thirst and Many of the behavioral functions elicited from the water conservation in Chapter 30, appetite and energy hypothalamus and other limbic structures are also medi- expenditure in Chapter 72, temperature regulation in ated through the reticular nuclei in the brain stem and Chapter 74, and endocrine control in Chapter 76. To illus- their associated nuclei. We
