Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in Chapter 72, temperature regulation in ated through the reticular nuclei in the brain stem and Chapter 74, and endocrine control in Chapter 76. To illus- their associated nuclei. We pointed out in Chapter 56, trate the organization of the hypothalamus as a functional as well as earlier in this chapter, that stimulation of the unit, we summarize the a few of its vegetative and endo- excitatory portion of this reticular formation can cause crine functions here as well. high degrees of cerebral excitability while also increasing Figures 59- 6 and 59- 7 show enlarged sagittal and cor- the excitability of much of the spinal cord synapses. In onal views of the hypothalamus, which represents only a Chapter 61, we see that most of the hypothalamic signals small area in Figure 59- 4. Especially note in Figure 59- 6 for controlling the autonomic nervous system are also the multiple activities that are excited or inhibited when transmitted through synaptic nuclei located in the brain respective hypothalamic nuclei are stimulated. In addition stem. to these centers, a large lateral hypothalamic area (shown An important route of communication between the in Figure 59- 7) is present on each side of the hypothala- limbic system and the brain stem is the medial forebrain mus. The lateral areas are especially important in control- bundle, which extends from the septal and orbitofron- ling thirst, hunger, and many of the emotional drives. tal regions of the cerebral cortex downward through the A word of caution must be issued when studying these middle of the hypothalamus to the brain stem reticular diagrams because the areas that cause specific activities formation. This bundle carries fibers in both directions, are not nearly as accurately localized as suggested in the forming a trunk line communication system. A sec- figures. Also, it is not known whether the effects noted ond route of communication is through short pathways in the figures result from stimulation of specific control among the reticular formation of the brain stem, thala- nuclei or merely from activation of fiber tracts lead- mus, hypothalamus, and most other contiguous areas of ing from or to control nuclei located elsewhere. With the basal brain. this caution in mind, we can give the following general description of the vegetative and control functions of the THE HYPOTHALAMUS, A MAJOR hypothalamus. CONTROL HEADQUARTERS FOR THE LIMBIC SYSTEM Cardiovascular Regulation. Stimulation of different ar- eas
