Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the following general description of the vegetative and control functions of the THE HYPOTHALAMUS, A MAJOR hypothalamus. CONTROL HEADQUARTERS FOR THE LIMBIC SYSTEM Cardiovascular Regulation. Stimulation of different ar- eas throughout the hypothalamus can cause many neu- The hypothalamus, despite its small size of only a few rogenic effects on the cardiovascular system, including cubic centimeters (weighing only about 4 grams), has changes in arterial pressure and heart rate. In general, two- way communicating pathways with all levels of the stimulation in the posterior and lateral hypothalamus 745 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology POSTERIOR ANTERIOR Dorsomedial nucleus Paraventricular nucleus (GI stimulation) (Oxytocin release) (Water conservation) (Satiety) Posterior hypothalamus Medial preoptic area (Increased blood pressure) Hypothalamus (Bladder contraction) (Pupillary dilation) (Decreased heart rate) (Shivering) (Decreased blood pressure) Perifornical nucleus Posterior preoptic and (Hunger) anterior hypothalamic areas (Increased blood pressure) (Body temperature regulation) (Rage) (Panting) (Sweating) Ventromedial nucleus (Thyrotropin inhibition) (Satiety) (Neuroendocrine control) Optic chiasm (Optic nerve) Supraoptic nucleus Mamillary body (Vasopressin release) (Feeding reflexes) Arcuate nucleus and periventricular zone Infundibulum (Hunger) (Satiety) (Neuroendocrine control) Figure 59- 6 Control centers of the Lateral hypothalamic area (not shown) hypothalamus (sagittal view). GI, (Thirst and hunger) Gastrointestinal. and (2) by controlling the excretion of water into the urine. An area called the thirst center is located in the Thalamus lateral hypothalamus. When the fluid electrolytes in ei- Paraventricular Periventricular ther this center or closely allied areas become too con- Dorsomedial centrated, the animal develops an intense desire to drink Anterior Fornix water; it will search out the nearest source of water and hypothalamic Lateral drink enough to return the electrolyte concentration of hypothalamic Optic the thirst center to normal. tract Supraoptic Control of renal excretion of water is vested mainly in the supraoptic nuclei. When the body fluids become too Arcuate Ventromedial concentrated, the neurons of these areas become stimu- Figure 59- 7 Coronal view of the hypothalamus, showing the medi- lated. Nerve fibers from these neurons project downward olateral positions of the respective hypothalamic nuclei. through the infundibulum of the hypothalamus into the posterior pituitary gland, where the nerve endings secrete the hormone antidiuretic hormone (also called vasopres- increases the arterial pressure and heart rate, whereas sin). This hormone is then absorbed into the blood and stimulation in the preoptic area often has opposite effects, transported to the kidneys, where it acts on the collect- causing
