Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sin). This hormone is then absorbed into the blood and stimulation in the preoptic area often has opposite effects, transported to the kidneys, where it acts on the collect- causing a decrease in both heart rate and arterial pressure. ing tubules and collecting ducts of the kidneys to cause These effects are transmitted mainly through specific car- increased reabsorption of water. This action decreases diovascular control centers in the reticular regions of the loss of water into the urine but allows continuing excre- pons and medulla. tion of electrolytes, thus decreasing the concentration of the body fluids back toward normal. These functions are Body Temperature Regulation. The anterior portion presented in Chapter 29. of the hypothalamus, especially the preoptic area, is con- cerned with regulation of body temperature. An increase Regulation of Uterine Contractility and Milk Ejection in temperature of the blood flowing through this area in- from the Breasts. Stimulation of the paraventricular creases activity of temperature- sensitive neurons, where- nuclei causes their neuronal cells to secrete the hormone as a decrease in temperature decreases their activity. In oxytocin. This hormone in turn causes increased contrac- turn, these neurons control mechanisms for increasing or tility of the uterus, as well as contraction of the myoepi- decreasing body temperature, as discussed in Chapter 74. thelial cells surrounding the alveoli of the breasts, which then causes the alveoli to empty their milk through the Body Water Regulation. The hypothalamus regulates nipples. body water in two ways: (1) by creating the sensation of At the end of pregnancy, especially large quantities of thirst, which drives the animal or person to drink water, oxytocin are secreted, and this secretion helps promote 746 Chapter 59 The Limbic System and the Hypothalamus—Behavioral and Motivational Mechanisms of the Brain labor contractions that expel the baby. Then, whenever the baby suckles the mother’s breast, a reflex signal from the nipple to the posterior hypothalamus also causes oxy- Social and tocin release, and the oxytocin now performs the neces- familial cues Cognition/mood sary function of contracting the ductules of the breast, Sleep/wake thereby expelling milk through the nipples so that the cycle baby can nourish itself. These functions are discussed in Chapter 83. Day/night Gastrointestinal and Feeding Regulation. Stimulation Appetite of several areas of the hypothalamus causes an animal SCN Eye to experience extreme hunger, a voracious appetite, and an intense desire to search for food. One area
