Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Stimulation Appetite of several areas of the hypothalamus causes an animal SCN Eye to experience extreme hunger, a voracious appetite, and an intense desire to search for food. One area associated Retino- Pituitary Autonomic with hunger is the lateral hypothalamic area. Conversely, hypothalamic nervous damage to this area on both sides of the hypothalamus tract system causes the animal to lose desire for food, sometimes caus- Neuroendocrine system ing lethal starvation, as discussed in Chapter 72. A center that opposes the desire for food, called the Hormonal Sympathetic Feeding satiety center, is located in the ventromedial nuclei. When regulation Parasympathetic behavior this center is stimulated electrically, an animal that is Core body temperature eating food suddenly stops eating and shows complete indifference to food. However, if this area is destroyed bilaterally, the animal cannot be satiated; instead, its Peripheral tissue clocks hypothalamic hunger centers become overactive, so it has a voracious appetite, resulting eventually in tremen- Circadian gene dous obesity. The arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus expression contains at least two different types neurons that, when Cardiovascular Renal Metabolism stimulated, lead either to increased or decreased appetite. Figure 59- 8 The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus Another area of the hypothalamus that enters into overall serves as a “master clock” for many physiological, mental, and behav- control of gastrointestinal activity is the mammillary bod- ioral activities. The SCN receives direct innervation from the retina via ies, which control at least partially the patterns of many the retinohypothalamic tract (RHT) to entrain its activity to day–night cycles. SCN neurons project to various brain centers, which contain feeding reflexes, such as licking the lips and swallowing. local circadian clocks that direct feeding–fasting, sleep–wakefulness, autonomic and neuroendocrine circadian rhythms. These systemic Hypothalamic Control of Endocrine Hormone Secre- cues synchronize local molecular clocks in peripheral tissues, and tion by the Anterior Pituitary Gland. Stimulation of these local clocks then direct circadian gene expression that regulates certain areas of the hypothalamus also causes the anterior physiological rhythms, including those related to mental alertness and cognition, cardiovascular regulation, metabolism, and renal function. pituitary gland to secrete its endocrine hormones. This subject is discussed in detail in Chapter 75 in relation to neural control of the endocrine glands. Briefly, the basic mechanisms are as follows. The anterior pituitary gland a “master clock,” with a pacemaker firing frequency that receives its blood supply mainly from blood that
