Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


endocrine glands. Briefly, the basic mechanisms are as follows. The anterior pituitary gland a “master clock,” with a pacemaker firing frequency that receives its blood supply mainly from blood that flows follows a circadian rhythm (Figure 59- 8). This pacemaker first through the lower part of the hypothalamus and then function is critical for organizing sleep into a recurring through the anterior pituitary vascular sinuses. As the 24- hour circadian pattern of sleeping and waking. Le- blood courses through the hypothalamus before reach- sions of the SCN cause many physiological and behavioral ing the anterior pituitary, specific releasing and inhibitory disturbances, including loss of the circadian sleep- wake hormones are secreted into the blood by various hypotha- rhythms. Thus, the SCN directs daily cycles of our physi- lamic nuclei. These hormones are then transported via ology and behavior that set the tempo of our lives. the blood to the anterior pituitary gland, where they act The importance of these daily cycles to human health on the glandular cells to control release of specific ante- has led to increasing interest in the field of chronobiology, rior pituitary hormones. the study of these circadian rhythms. In 2017, the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was awarded to Jeffrey C. Hypothalamic Control of Circadian Rhythms—The Hall, Michael Rosbash, and Michael W. Young for their Suprachiasmatic Nucleus. The suprachiasmatic nu- discoveries of molecular mechanisms controlling the cir- cleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus contains about 20,000 cadian rhythm in fruit flies. neurons and is located above the optic chiasm where the The SCN is organized into specific functional groups optic nerves cross underneath the hypothalamus, as dis- that control the rhythmic patterns of biological clocks cussed in Chapter 52. The neurons of the SCN serve as in other parts of the body. These biological clocks are 747 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology comprised of a complex set of gene transcription factors, behavior of animals and human beings. Some of the proteins/enzymes, and other regulator factors that oper- behavioral effects of stimulation are the following: ate to establish circadian rhythms in most living organ- 1. Stimulation in the lateral hypothalamus not only isms including mammals, microbes, and even plants. causes thirst and eating, as discussed earlier, but These biological clocks are found in nearly every tissue also increases the general level of activity of the ani- and organ of
