Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


causes thirst and eating, as discussed earlier, but These biological clocks are found in nearly every tissue also increases the general level of activity of the ani- and organ of the body and capable of maintaining their mal, sometimes leading to overt rage and fighting, own circadian rhythms, although their circadian rhythms discussed subsequently. are usually maintained for only a few days in the absence 2. Stimulation in the ventromedial nucleus and sur- of signals from the SCN. rounding areas mainly causes effects opposite to Key components of the clock mechanisms in the SCN, those caused by lateral hypothalamic stimulation— and in other tissues, are two feedback loops that rely that is, a sense of satiety, decreased eating, and tran- on the transcriptional activators, CLOCK and BMAL1, quility. which bind to each other and, following translocation to 3. Stimulation of a thin zone of periventricular nuclei, the nucleus, initiate transcription of “clock genes” (PER1, located immediately adjacent to the third ventricle PER2, and PER3) and “cryptochrome genes” (CRY1 and (or also stimulation of the central gray area of the CRY2). These genes turn on synthesis of PER and CRY mesencephalon that is continuous with this portion proteins; as the proteins accumulate, they inhibit CLOCK of the hypothalamus), usually leads to fear and pun- and BMAL1, thereby repressing PER and CRY transcrip- ishment reactions. tion. This feedback sequence of on- off PER and CRY 4. Sexual drive can be stimulated from several areas of protein synthesis normally occurs in a 24-h our circadian the hypothalamus, especially the most anterior and pattern. most posterior portions. Once the SCN clock has established its circadian rhythm, this information is transmitted to other brain Effects Caused by Hypothalamic Lesions. Lesions in regions through action potentials and to various organs the hypothalamus, in general, cause effects opposite to and tissues via nervous and hormonal signals. Axons those caused by stimulation, such as the following: from the SCN project to other regions of the hypothala- 1. Bilateral lesions in the lateral hypothalamus will mus that are especially important for circadian variations decrease drinking and eating almost to zero, often in body temperature, the sleep- wake cycle, and various leading to lethal starvation. These lesions cause ex- hormonal changes. treme passivity of the animal as well, with loss of Although the circadian rhythms of the SCN are most of its overt drives. endogenous and self- sustained, they are
