Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


changes. treme passivity of the animal as well, with loss of Although the circadian rhythms of the SCN are most of its overt drives. endogenous and self- sustained, they are altered 2. Bilateral lesions of the ventromedial areas of the hy- (“entrained”) by environmental changes such as tem- pothalamus cause effects that are mainly opposite perature and timing of the light- dark cycle. The SCN to those caused by lesions of the lateral hypothala- receives neural input from specialized intrinsically mus: excessive drinking and eating, as well as hy- photosensitive retinal ganglion cells that contain the peractivity and often frequent bouts of extreme rage photopigment melanopsin and transmit signals through on the slightest provocation. the retinohypothalamic tract. The importance of this Stimulation or lesions in other regions of the limbic pathway in altering the timing of circadian rhythms is system, especially in the amygdala, the septal area, and illustrated by the observation that a person who travels areas in the mesencephalon, often cause effects similar to across several time zones may experience “jet lag” but those elicited from the hypothalamus. We discuss some of his or her circadian clock is eventually synchronized these effects in more detail later. with local day- night time. “REWARD” AND “PUNISHMENT” Summary. Several areas of the hypothalamus control FUNCTION OF THE LIMBIC SYSTEM specific vegetative and endocrine functions. The func- tions of these areas are not fully understood, so the From the discussion thus far, it is already clear that sev- specification given earlier of different areas for different eral limbic structures are particularly concerned with the hypothalamic functions is still partially tentative. affective nature of sensory sensations—that is, whether the sensations are pleasant or unpleasant. These affec- BEHAVIORAL FUNCTIONS OF THE tive qualities are also called reward or punishment, or HYPOTHALAMUS AND ASSOCIATED satisfaction or aversion. Electrical stimulation of certain LIMBIC STRUCTURES limbic areas pleases or satisfies the animal, whereas elec- trical stimulation of other regions causes terror, pain, Effects Caused by Stimulation of the Hypothalamus. fear, defense, escape reactions, and all the other elements In addition to the vegetative and endocrine functions of of punishment. The degrees of stimulation of these two the hypothalamus, stimulation of or lesions in the hy- oppositely responding systems greatly affect the behavior pothalamus often have profound effects on emotional of the animal. 748 Chapter 59 The Limbic System and the Hypothalamus—Behavioral and Motivational Mechanisms of the Brain
