Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


systems greatly affect the behavior pothalamus often have profound effects on emotional of the animal. 748 Chapter 59 The Limbic System and the Hypothalamus—Behavioral and Motivational Mechanisms of the Brain Reward Centers IMPORTANCE OF REWARD OR PUNISHMENT ON BEHAVIOR Through experimental studies using electrical stimula- tors to map out the reward and punishment centers of Almost everything that we do is related in some way to the brain, the major reward centers have been found to be reward and punishment. If we are doing something that located along the course of the medial forebrain bundle, is rewarding, we continue to do it; if it is punishing, we especially in the lateral and ventromedial nuclei of the cease to do it. Therefore, the reward and punishment cen- hypothalamus. It is interesting that the lateral nucleus is ters undoubtedly constitute one of the most important of included among the reward areas because strong stimuli all the controllers of our bodily activities, our drives, our in this area can actually cause rage. However, this phe- aversions, and our motivations. nomenon occurs in many areas, with weaker stimuli giving a sense of reward and stronger ones a sense of Effect of Tranquilizers on the Reward or Punish- punishment. Less potent reward centers, which are per- ment Centers. Administration of a tranquilizer, such as haps secondary to the major ones in the hypothalamus, chlorpromazine, usually inhibits both the reward and the are found in the septum, the amygdala, certain areas of punishment centers, thereby decreasing the affective re- the thalamus and basal ganglia, and extending down- activity of the animal. Therefore, it is presumed that tran- ward into the basal tegmentum of the mesencephalon. quilizers function in psychotic states by suppressing many of the important behavioral areas of the hypothalamus Punishment Centers and its associated regions of the limbic brain. The most potent areas for punishment and escape ten- Importance of Reward or Punishment dencies have been found in the central gray area sur- in Learning and Memory—Habituation rounding the aqueduct of Sylvius in the mesencephalon Versus Reinforcement and extending upward into the periventricular zones of the hypothalamus and thalamus. Less potent punishment Animal experiments have shown that a sensory experi- areas are found in some locations in the amygdala and ence that causes neither reward nor punishment is hardly hippocampus. It is particularly interesting that stimula- remembered at all. Electrical recordings from the brain
