Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


some locations in the amygdala and ence that causes neither reward nor punishment is hardly hippocampus. It is particularly interesting that stimula- remembered at all. Electrical recordings from the brain tion in the punishment centers can frequently inhibit the show that a newly experienced sensory stimulus almost reward and pleasure centers completely, demonstrating always excites multiple areas in the cerebral cortex. How- that punishment and fear can take precedence over plea- ever, if the sensory experience does not elicit a sense of sure and reward. either reward or punishment, repetition of the stimulus over and over leads to almost complete extinction of the Association of Rage With Punishment cerebral cortical response—that is, the animal becomes Centers habituated to that specific sensory stimulus and thereaf- An emotional pattern that involves the punishment cen- ter ignores it. ters of the hypothalamus and other limbic structures and If the stimulus does cause reward or punishment rather that has also been well characterized is the rage pattern. than indifference, the cerebral cortical response becomes This is described as follows. progressively more and more intense during repeated Strong stimulation of the punishment centers of the stimulation instead of fading away, and the response is brain, especially in the periventricular zone of the hypothal- said to be reinforced. An animal builds up strong memory amus and in the lateral hypothalamus, causes the animal to traces for sensations that are either rewarding or pun- (1) develop a defense posture; (2) extend its claws; (3) lift its ishing but, conversely, develops complete habituation to tail; (4) hiss; (5) spit; (6) growl; and (7) develop piloerection, indifferent sensory stimuli. wide-o pen eyes, and dilated pupils. Furthermore, even the It is evident that the reward and punishment centers slightest provocation causes an immediate savage attack. of the limbic system have much to do with selecting the This behavior is approximately the behavior that one would information that we learn, usually throwing away more expect from an animal being severely punished, and it is a than 99% of it and selecting less than 1% for retention. pattern of behavior called rage. Fortunately, in the normal animal, the rage phenom- SPECIFIC FUNCTIONS OF OTHER PARTS enon is held in check mainly by inhibitory signals from OF THE LIMBIC SYSTEM the ventromedial nuclei of the hypothalamus. In addition, portions of the hippocampi and anterior limbic cortex, FUNCTIONS OF THE HIPPOCAMPUS especially in the
