Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


inhibitory signals from OF THE LIMBIC SYSTEM the ventromedial nuclei of the hypothalamus. In addition, portions of the hippocampi and anterior limbic cortex, FUNCTIONS OF THE HIPPOCAMPUS especially in the anterior cingulate gyri and subcallosal gyri, help suppress the rage phenomenon. The hippocampus is the elongated portion of the cere- bral cortex that folds inward to form the ventral surface Placidity and Tameness. Exactly the opposite emotion- of much of the inside of the lateral ventricle. One end of al behavior patterns occur when the reward centers are the hippocampus abuts the amygdaloid nuclei, and along stimulated—placidity and tameness. its lateral border it fuses with the parahippocampal gyrus, 749 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology which is the cerebral cortex on the ventromedial outside essential roles in determining whether the animal will surface of the temporal lobe. eat a particular food, whether the smell of a particular The hippocampus (and its adjacent temporal and pari- object suggests danger, or whether the odor is sexually etal lobe structures, all together called the hippocampal inviting, thus making decisions that are of life- or- death formation) has numerous but mainly indirect connections importance. Very early in evolutionary development of with many portions of the cerebral cortex, as well as with the brain, the hippocampus presumably became a criti- the basal structures of the limbic system—the amygdala, cal decision- making neuronal mechanism, determining hypothalamus, septum, and mammillary bodies. Almost the importance of the incoming sensory signals. Once any type of sensory experience causes activation of at least this critical decision- making capability had been estab- some part of the hippocampus, and the hippocampus lished, presumably the remainder of the brain also began in turn distributes many outgoing signals to the anterior to call on the hippocampus for decision making. There- thalamus, hypothalamus, and other parts of the limbic sys- fore, if the hippocampus signals that a neuronal input is tem, especially through the fornix, a major communicating important, the information is likely to be committed to pathway. Thus, the hippocampus is an additional channel memory. through which incoming sensory signals can initiate behav- Thus, a person rapidly becomes habituated to indif- ioral reactions for different purposes. As in other limbic ferent stimuli but learns assiduously any sensory expe- structures, stimulation of different areas in the hippocam- rience that causes either pleasure or pain. But what is pus can
