Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


other limbic ferent stimuli but learns assiduously any sensory expe- structures, stimulation of different areas in the hippocam- rience that causes either pleasure or pain. But what is pus can cause almost any of the different behavioral pat- the mechanism by which this occurs? It has been sug- terns such as pleasure, rage, passivity, or excess sex drive. gested that the hippocampus provides the drive that Another feature of the hippocampus is that it can causes translation of short- term memory into long- become hyperexcitable. For example, weak electrical term memory—that is, the hippocampus transmits stimuli can cause focal epileptic seizures in small areas signals that seem to make the mind rehearse over and of the hippocampi. These seizures often persist for many over the new information until permanent storage seconds after the stimulation is over, suggesting that the takes place. Whatever the mechanism, without the hip- hippocampi can perhaps give off prolonged output sig- pocampi, consolidation of long- term memories of the nals, even under normal functioning conditions. During verbal or symbolic thinking type is poor or does not hippocampal seizures, the person experiences various take place. psychomotor effects, including olfactory, visual, auditory, tactile, and other types of hallucinations that cannot be Functions of the Amygdala suppressed as long as the seizure persists, even though The amygdala is a complex of multiple small nuclei located the person has not lost consciousness and knows these immediately beneath the cerebral cortex of the medial an- hallucinations to be unreal. Probably one of the reasons terior pole of each temporal lobe. It has abundant bidirec- for this hyperexcitability of the hippocampi is that they tional connections with the hypothalamus, as well as with have a different type of cortex from that elsewhere in the other areas of the limbic system. cerebrum, with only three nerve cell layers in some of its In lower animals, the amygdala is concerned to a great areas instead of the six layers found elsewhere. extent with olfactory stimuli and their interrelations with the limbic brain. It was noted in Chapter 54 that one of Role of the Hippocampus in Learning the major divisions of the olfactory tract terminates in a portion of the amygdala called the corticomedial nuclei, Anterograde Amnesia After Bilateral Removal of which lies immediately beneath the cerebral cortex in the the Hippocampi. Portions of the hippocampi have been olfactory pyriform area of the temporal
