Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


nuclei, Anterograde Amnesia After Bilateral Removal of which lies immediately beneath the cerebral cortex in the the Hippocampi. Portions of the hippocampi have been olfactory pyriform area of the temporal lobe. In the hu- surgically removed bilaterally in a few human beings for man being, another portion of the amygdala, the basolat- treatment of epilepsy. These people can recall most previ- eral nuclei, has become much more highly developed than ously learned memories satisfactorily. However, they of- the olfactory portion and plays important roles in many ten can learn essentially no new information that is based behavioral activities not generally associated with olfac- on verbal symbolism—they often cannot even learn the tory stimuli. names of people with whom they come in contact eve- The amygdala receives neuronal signals from all por- ry day. Yet they can remember for a moment or so what tions of the limbic cortex, as well as from the neocortex of the temporal, parietal, and occipital lobes—especially from transpires during the course of their activities. Thus, they the auditory and visual association areas. Because of these are capable of short- term memory for seconds up to a multiple connections, the amygdala has been called the minute or two, although their ability to establish memo- “window” through which the limbic system sees the place ries lasting longer than a few minutes is either completely of the person in the world. In turn, the amygdala transmits or almost completely abolished. This phenomenon, called signals (1) back into these same cortical areas, (2) into the anterograde amnesia, was discussed in Chapter 58. hippocampus, (3) into the septum, (4) into the thalamus, and (5) especially into the hypothalamus. Theoretical Function of the Hippocampus in Learn- Effects of Stimulating the Amygdala. In general, stimula- ing. The hippocampus originated as part of the olfac- tion in the amygdala can cause almost all the same effects tory cortex. In many lower animals, this cortex plays as those elicited by direct stimulation of the hypothalamus, 750 Chapter 59 The Limbic System and the Hypothalamus—Behavioral and Motivational Mechanisms of the Brain plus other effects. Effects initiated from the amygdala and many behavioral patterns can be elicited by stimulation of then sent through the hypothalamus include the following: specific portions of the limbic cortex. Likewise, ablation of (1) increases or decreases in arterial pressure and heart some limbic cortical areas can cause persistent changes in rate;
