Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the following: specific portions of the limbic cortex. Likewise, ablation of (1) increases or decreases in arterial pressure and heart some limbic cortical areas can cause persistent changes in rate; (2) increases or decreases in gastrointestinal motility an animal’s behavior, as follows. and secretion; (3) defecation or micturition; (4) pupillary Ablation of the Anterior Temporal Cortex. When the dilation or, rarely, constriction; (5) piloerection; and (6) se- anterior temporal cortex is ablated bilaterally, the amygda- cretion of various anterior pituitary hormones, especially las are almost invariably damaged as well and, as discussed the gonadotropins and adrenocorticotropic hormone. earlier, the Klüver-B ucy syndrome occurs. The animal es- Aside from these effects mediated through the hypo- pecially develops consummatory behavior: it investigates thalamus, amygdala stimulation can also cause several any and all objects, has intense sex drives toward inap- types of involuntary movement. These types include the propriate animals or even inanimate objects, and loses all following: (1) tonic movements, such as raising the head fear—and thus develops tameness as well. or bending the body; (2) circling movements; (3) occasion- Ablation of the Posterior Orbital Frontal Cortex. Bilat- ally clonic, rhythmical movements; and (4) different types eral removal of the posterior portion of the orbital frontal of movements associated with olfaction and eating, such as cortex often causes an animal to develop insomnia associ- licking, chewing, and swallowing. ated with intense motor restlessness; the animal becomes Stimulation of certain amygdaloid nuclei can also cause unable to sit still and moves about continuously. Ablation of the Anterior Cingulate Gyri and Subcallosal a pattern of rage, escape, punishment, severe pain, and fear similar to the rage pattern elicited from the hypothalamus, Gyri. The anterior cingulate gyri and the subcallosal gyri as described earlier. Stimulation of other amygdaloid nuclei are the portions of the limbic cortex that communicate can give reactions of reward and pleasure. between the prefrontal cerebral cortex and the subcorti- Finally, excitation of still other portions of the amygdala cal limbic structures. Destruction of these gyri bilaterally can cause sexual activities that include erection, copulatory releases the rage centers of the septum and hypothalamus movements, ejaculation, ovulation, uterine activity, and from prefrontal inhibitory influence. Therefore, the animal premature labor. can become vicious and much more subject to fits of rage than normally. Effects of Bilateral Ablation of the Amygdala—The Klüver- Bucy Syndrome. When the anterior parts of both Summary. Until further information
