Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and much more subject to fits of rage than normally. Effects of Bilateral Ablation of the Amygdala—The Klüver- Bucy Syndrome. When the anterior parts of both Summary. Until further information is available, it is perhaps best to state that the cortical regions of the limbic temporal lobes are destroyed in a monkey, this procedure system occupy intermediate associative positions between removes not only portions of temporal cortex but also of the the functions of the specific areas of the cerebral cortex and amygdalas that lie inside these parts of the temporal lobes. functions of the subcortical limbic structures for control of This removal causes changes in behavior called the Klüver- behavioral patterns. Thus, in the anterior temporal cortex, Bucy syndrome, which is demonstrated by an animal that one especially finds gustatory and olfactory behavioral as- (1) is not afraid of anything, (2) has extreme curiosity about sociations. In the parahippocampal gyri, there is a tendency everything, (3) forgets rapidly, (4) has a tendency to place for complex auditory associations and complex thought as- everything in its mouth and sometimes even tries to eat sociations derived from Wernicke’s area of the posterior solid objects, and (5) often has a sex drive so strong that it temporal lobe. In the middle and posterior cingulate cor- attempts to copulate with immature animals, animals of the tex, there is reason to believe that sensorimotor behavioral wrong sex, or even animals of a different species. Although associations occur. similar lesions in human beings are rare, afflicted people re- spond in a manner not too different from that of the monkey. Overall Function of the Amygdalas. The amygdalas seem Bibliography to be behavioral awareness areas that operate at a semicon- Anacker C, Hen R: Adult hippocampal neurogenesis and cognitive scious level. They also seem to project into the limbic sys- flexibility - linking memory and mood. Nat Rev Neurosci 18:335, tem one’s current status in relation to both surroundings 2017. and thoughts. On the basis of this information, the amyg- Challet E: The circadian regulation of food intake. Nat Rev Endocrinol dala is believed to make the person’s behavioral response 15:393, 2018. appropriate for each occasion. Crunelli V, Lőrincz ML, Connelly WM, et al: Dual function of thalamic low- vigilance state oscillations: rhythm-r egulation and plasticity. Function of the Limbic Cortex Nat Rev Neurosci 19:107, 2018. The most poorly understood portion of the limbic system Fenster
