Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


roscience perspective on formulation and treatment planning for mutants to human circadian disorders (Nobel Lecture). Angew posttraumatic stress disorder: an educational review. JAMA Psy- Chem Int Ed Engl 57:11532, 2018. chiatry 74:407, 2017. Zimmerman CA, Leib DE, Knight ZA: Neural circuits underlying thirst Russo SJ, Nestler EJ: The brain reward circuitry in mood disorders. Nat and fluid homeostasis. Nat Rev Neurosci 18:459, 2017. Rev Neurosci 14:609, 2013. 752 CHAPTER 6 0 States of Brain Activity—Sleep, Brain Waves, Epilepsy, Psychoses, and Dementia All of us are aware of the many different states of brain in young adults. When a person is extremely sleepy, each activity, including sleep, wakefulness, extreme excite- bout of REM sleep is short and may even be absent. As ment, and even different levels of mood such as exhila- the person becomes more rested through the night, the ration, depression, and fear. All these states result from durations of the REM bouts increase. different activating or inhibiting forces generated usually REM sleep has several important characteristics: within the brain. In Chapter 59, we began a partial discus- 1. It is an active form of sleep usually associated with sion of this subject when we described different systems dreaming and active bodily muscle movements. that are capable of activating large portions of the brain. 2. The person is even more difficult to arouse by sen- In this chapter, we present brief surveys of specific states sory stimuli than during deep slow- wave sleep, and of brain activity, beginning with sleep. yet people usually awaken spontaneously in the morning during an episode of REM sleep. SLEEP 3. Muscle tone throughout the body is exceedingly depressed, indicating strong inhibition of the spinal Sleep is defined as unconsciousness from which a per- muscle control areas. son can be aroused by sensory or other stimuli. It is to 4. Heart rate and respiratory rate usually become ir- be distinguished from coma, which is unconsciousness regular, which is characteristic of the dream state. from which a person cannot be aroused. There are mul- 5. Despite the extreme inhibition of the peripheral tiple stages of sleep, from very light sleep to very deep muscles, irregular muscle movements do occur in sleep. Sleep researchers also divide sleep into two entirely addition to the rapid movements of the eyes. different types of sleep that have different qualities, as 6. The brain is highly active in REM sleep,
