Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sleep into two entirely addition to the rapid movements of the eyes. different types of sleep that have different qualities, as 6. The brain is highly active in REM sleep, and overall described in the following section. brain metabolism may be increased as much as 20%. An electroencephalogram (EEG) shows a pattern TWO TYPES OF SLEEP—SLOW-W AVE of brain waves similar to those that occur during SLEEP AND RAPID EYE MOVEMENT SLEEP wakefulness. This type of sleep is also called para- doxical sleep because it is a paradox that a person Each night, a person goes through stages of two major can still be asleep, despite the presence of marked types of sleep that alternate with each other (Figure 60- 1). activity in the brain. These types are called (1) rapid eye movement sleep (REM In summary, REM sleep is a type of sleep in which sleep), in which the eyes undergo rapid movements even the brain is quite active. However, the person is not fully though the person is still asleep, and (2) slow- wave sleep aware of the surroundings and therefore is truly asleep. or non- REM (NREM) sleep, in which the brain waves are strong and of low frequency, as we discuss later. Slow- Wave Sleep REM sleep occurs in episodes that occupy about 25% We can understand the characteristics of deep slow- wave of the sleep time in young adults; each episode normally sleep by remembering the last time we were kept awake for recurs about every 90 minutes. This type of sleep is not more than 24 hours and the deep sleep that occurred dur- so restful, and it is often associated with vivid dreaming. ing the first hour after going to sleep. This sleep is exceed- Most sleep during each night is of the slow- wave (NREM) ingly restful and is associated with decreases in peripheral variety, which is the deep, restful sleep that the person vascular tone and many other vegetative functions of the experiences during the first hour of sleep after having body. For example, 10% to 30% decreases occur in blood been awake for many hours. pressure, respiratory rate, and basal metabolic rate. REM (Paradoxical, Desynchronized) Sleep Although slow- wave sleep is frequently called “dream- less sleep,” dreams and sometimes even nightmares do In a normal night of sleep, bouts of REM sleep lasting 5 occur during slow- wave sleep. The
