Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is frequently called “dream- less sleep,” dreams and sometimes even nightmares do In a normal night of sleep, bouts of REM sleep lasting 5 occur during slow- wave sleep. The difference between to 30 minutes usually appear on average every 90 minutes 753 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Alert wakefulness (beta waves) Awake Quiet wakefulness (alpha waves) REM REM REM REM REM REM REM sleep (beta waves) Stage 1 Stage 1 sleep (low voltage and spindles) Stage 2 50 µV Stages 2 and 3 sleep (theta waves) Stage 3 Stage 4 Stage 4 slow-wave sleep (delta waves) 1 sec 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Time (hours) Figure 60- 1. Progressive change in the characteristics of the brain waves during alert wakefulness, rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, and stages one through four of sleep. the dreams that occur in slow- wave sleep and those that the midline. Nerve fibers from these nuclei spread occur in REM sleep is that those of REM sleep are associ- locally in the brain stem reticular formation and ated with more bodily muscle activity. Also, the dreams also upward into the thalamus, hypothalamus, most of slow- wave sleep are usually not remembered because areas of the limbic system, and even the neocortex consolidation of the dreams in memory does not occur. of the cerebrum. In addition, fibers extend down- ward into the spinal cord, terminating in the poste- BASIC THEORIES OF SLEEP rior horns, where they can inhibit incoming sensory signals, including pain, as discussed in Chapter 49. Sleep Is Caused by an Active Inhibitory Process. Many nerve endings of fibers from these raphe neu- An earlier theory of sleep was that the excitatory ar- rons secrete serotonin. When a drug that blocks the eas of the upper brain stem, the reticular activating formation of serotonin is administered to an animal, system, simply became fatigued during the waking day the animal often cannot sleep for the next several and became inactive as a result. An important experi- days. Therefore, it has been assumed that serotonin ment changed this thinking to the current view that is a transmitter substance associated with the pro- sleep is caused by an active inhibitory process, because duction of sleep. it was discovered that transecting the brain stem at the 2. Stimulation of some areas in the nucleus of the trac- level
