Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


an active inhibitory process, because duction of sleep. it was discovered that transecting the brain stem at the 2. Stimulation of some areas in the nucleus of the trac- level of the midpons creates a brain cortex that never tus solitarius can also cause sleep. This nucleus is goes to sleep. In other words, a center located below the termination in the medulla and pons for visceral the midpontile level of the brain stem appears to be sensory signals entering by way of the vagus and required to cause sleep by inhibiting other parts of the glossopharyngeal nerves. brain. 3. Sleep can be promoted by stimulation of several re- Neuronal Centers, Neurohumoral gions in the diencephalon, including (1) the rostral Substances, and Mechanisms That Can part of the hypothalamus, mainly in the suprachi- Cause Sleep—Possible Role for Serotonin asmal area, and (2) an occasional area in the diffuse nuclei of the thalamus. Stimulation of several specific areas of the brain can pro- duce sleep with characteristics near those of natural sleep. Lesions in Sleep-P romoting Centers Can Cause In- Some of these areas are the following: tense Wakefulness. Discrete lesions in the raphe nuclei 1. The raphe nuclei in the lower half of the pons and lead to a high state of wakefulness. This phenomenon is in the medulla is the most conspicuous stimulation also true of bilateral lesions in the medial rostral suprachi- area for causing almost natural sleep. These nuclei asmal area in the anterior hypothalamus. In both cases, comprise a thin sheet of special neurons located in the excitatory reticular nuclei of the mesencephalon and 754 Chapter 60 States of Brain Activity—Sleep, Brain Waves, Epilepsy, Psychoses, and Dementia upper pons seem to become released from inhibition, Therefore, once wakefulness begins, it has a natural ten- thus causing intense wakefulness. Indeed, sometimes le- dency to sustain itself because of all this positive feedback sions of the anterior hypothalamus can cause such intense activity. wakefulness that the animal actually dies of exhaustion. Then, after the brain remains activated for many hours, even the neurons in the activating system presumably Other Possible Transmitter Substances Related to become fatigued. Consequently, the positive feedback Sleep. Experiments have shown that the cerebrospinal cycle between the mesencephalic reticular nuclei and fluid and the blood or urine of animals that have been kept the cerebral cortex fades and the sleep- promoting effects awake for several
