Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


between the mesencephalic reticular nuclei and fluid and the blood or urine of animals that have been kept the cerebral cortex fades and the sleep- promoting effects awake for several days contain a substance or substances of the sleep centers take over, leading to rapid transition that will cause sleep when injected into the brain ven- from wakefulness back to sleep. tricular system of another animal. One likely substance This overall theory could explain the rapid transitions has been identified as muramyl peptide, a low-m olecular- from sleep to wakefulness and from wakefulness to sleep. weight substance that accumulates in the cerebrospinal It could also explain arousal—that is, the insomnia that fluid and urine in animals kept awake for several days. occurs when a person’s mind becomes preoccupied with a When only micrograms of this sleep- producing sub- thought—and the wakefulness that is produced by bodily stance are injected into the third ventricle, almost natural physical activity. sleep occurs within a few minutes, and the animal may stay asleep for several hours. Role of Orexin Neurons in Arousal and Wakefulness. Another substance that has similar effects in causing Orexin (also called hypocretin) is produced by neurons in sleep is delta sleep–inducing peptide, a nonapeptide found the hypothalamus that provide excitatory input to many in the cerebrospinal fluid after electrical stimulation of the other areas of the brain where there are orexin receptors. thalamus to induce sleep. Several other potential sleep Orexin neurons are most active during waking and almost factors, mostly peptides, have been isolated from the stop firing during slow wave and REM sleep. Loss of orexin cerebrospinal fluid or neuronal tissues of the brain stem of signaling as a result of defective orexin receptors or de- animals kept awake for days. It is possible that prolonged struction of orexin- producing neurons causes narcolepsy, wakefulness causes progressive accumulation of a sleep a sleep disorder characterized by overwhelming daytime factor or factors in the brain stem or cerebrospinal fluid drowsiness and sudden attacks of sleep that can occur, even when a person is talking or working. Patients with that lead(s) to sleep. narcolepsy may also experience a sudden loss of muscle Possible Cause of REM Sleep. It is not understood why tone (cataplexy) that can be partial or even severe enough slow- wave sleep is broken periodically by REM sleep. to cause paralysis during the attack. These observations However, drugs
