Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


why tone (cataplexy) that can be partial or even severe enough slow- wave sleep is broken periodically by REM sleep. to cause paralysis during the attack. These observations However, drugs that mimic the action of acetylcholine point to an important role for orexin neurons in maintain- increase the occurrence of REM sleep. Therefore, it has ing wakefulness, but their contribution to the normal daily cycle between sleep and wakefulness is unclear. been postulated that the large acetylcholine- secreting neurons in the upper brain stem reticular formation SLEEP HAS IMPORTANT PHYSIOLOGICAL might, through their extensive efferent fibers, activate FUNCTIONS many portions of the brain. This mechanism theoretically could cause the increased activity that occurs in certain There is little doubt that sleep has important functions. It brain regions in REM sleep, even though the signals are exists in all mammals, and after total deprivation there is not channeled appropriately in the brain to cause normal usually a period of “catch- up” or “rebound” sleep; after selec- conscious awareness that is characteristic of wakefulness. tive deprivation of REM or slow- wave sleep, there is also a selective rebound of these specific stages of sleep. Even Cycle Between Sleep and Wakefulness mild sleep restriction over a few days may degrade cogni- The preceding discussions have merely identified neuro- tive and physical performance, overall productivity, and the nal areas, transmitters, and mechanisms that are related health of a person. The essential role of sleep in homeostasis to sleep; they have not explained the cyclical, reciprocal is perhaps most vividly demonstrated by the fact that rats operation of the sleep- wakefulness cycle. There is as yet deprived of sleep for 2 to 3 weeks may actually die. Despite no definitive explanation. Therefore, we might suggest the obvious importance of sleep, our understanding of why the following possible mechanism for causing the sleep- sleep is an essential part of life is still limited. wakefulness cycle. Sleep causes two major types of physiological effects: When the sleep centers are not activated, the mesen- first, effects on the nervous system, and second, effects on cephalic and upper pontile reticular activating nuclei are other functional systems of the body. Mammals, and even released from inhibition, which allows the reticular acti- invertebrate animals, sleep more in the setting of infec- vating nuclei to become spontaneously active. This spon- tious as well as non- infectious illnesses. Sickness- induced taneous activity in
