Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


acti- invertebrate animals, sleep more in the setting of infec- vating nuclei to become spontaneously active. This spon- tious as well as non- infectious illnesses. Sickness- induced taneous activity in turn excites both the cerebral cortex sleep has been suggested to be a beneficial response that and the peripheral nervous system, both of which send diverts the organism’s energy resources from neural and numerous positive feedback signals back to the same motor demands to fighting off infectious or injurious reticular activating nuclei to activate them still further. insults. 755 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Lack of sleep certainly affects the functions of the Alpha central nervous system. Prolonged wakefulness is often associated with progressive malfunction of the thought processes and sometimes even causes abnormal behav- Beta ioral activities. We are all familiar with the increased sluggishness of thought that occurs toward the end of a prolonged wakeful period, but in addition, a person can Theta become irritable or even psychotic after forced wake- fulness. Therefore, we can assume that sleep in multiple ways restores both normal levels of brain activity and nor- mal “balance” among the different functions of the central 50 µV Delta nervous system. Sleep has been postulated to serve many functions, 1 sec including the following: (1) neural maturation; (2) facilita- Figure 60- 2. Different types of brain waves in the normal electro- tion of learning or memory; (3) targeted erasure of syn- encephalogram. apses to “forget” unimportant information that might clutter the synaptic network; (4) cognition; (5) clearance Eyes open Eyes closed of metabolic waste products generated by neural activ- ity in the awake brain; and (6) conservation of metabolic energy. There is some evidence for each of these func- Figure 60-3 . Replacement of the alpha rhythm by an asynchronous, tions, but evidence supporting each of these ideas has low- voltage beta rhythm when the eyes are open. been challenged. We might postulate that the principal value of sleep is to restore natural balances among the neu- Their voltage is usually about 50 microvolts. During deep ronal centers, which is necessary for overall health. The sleep, the alpha waves disappear. specific physiological functions of sleep, however, remain When the awake person’s attention is directed to some a mystery and are the subject of much research. specific type of mental activity, the alpha waves are replaced by asynchronous, higher
