Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the awake person’s attention is directed to some a mystery and are the subject of much research. specific type of mental activity, the alpha waves are replaced by asynchronous, higher frequency but lower voltage beta Brain Waves waves. Figure 60- 3 shows the effect on the alpha waves of simply opening the eyes in bright light and then closing the Electrical recordings from the surface of the brain or even eyes. Note that the visual sensations cause immediate ces- from the outer surface of the head demonstrate that there is sation of the alpha waves and that these waves are replaced continuous electrical activity in the brain. Both the intensity by low- voltage, asynchronous beta waves. and the patterns of this electrical activity are determined by Beta waves occur at frequencies greater than 14 cycles/ the level of excitation of different parts of the brain resulting sec and as high as 80 cycles/sec. They are recorded mainly from sleep, wakefulness, or brain disorders such as epilepsy from the parietal and frontal regions during specific activa- or even psychoses. The undulations in the recorded electrical tion of these parts of the brain. potentials, shown in Figure 60- 2, are called brain waves, and Theta waves have frequencies between four and 7 cy- the entire record is called an electroencephalogram (EEG). cles/sec. They occur normally in the parietal and temporal The intensities of brain waves recorded from the sur- regions in children, but they also occur during emotional face of the scalp range from 0 to 200 microvolts, and their stress in some adults, particularly during disappointment frequencies range from once every few seconds to 50 or and frustration. Theta waves also occur in many brain dis- more per second. The character of the waves is dependent orders, often in degenerative brain states. on the degree of activity in respective parts of the cerebral Delta waves include all the waves of the EEG with fre- cortex, and the waves change markedly between the states quencies less than 3.5 cycles/sec, and they often have volt- of wakefulness and sleep and coma. ages two to four times greater than most other types of brain Much of the time, the brain waves are irregular and waves. They occur in very deep sleep, in infancy, and in per- no specific pattern can be discerned in the EEG. At other sons with serious organic brain disease. They
