Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


waves. They occur in very deep sleep, in infancy, and in per- no specific pattern can be discerned in the EEG. At other sons with serious organic brain disease. They also occur in times, distinct patterns do appear, some of which are char- the cortex of animals that have had subcortical transections acteristic of specific abnormalities of the brain such as epi- in which the cerebral cortex is separated from the thalamus. lepsy, which is discussed later. Therefore, delta waves can occur strictly in the cortex inde- In healthy people, most waves in the EEG can be classi- pendent of activities in lower regions of the brain. fied as alpha, beta, theta, and delta waves, which are shown Origin of Brain Waves in Figure 60- 2. Alpha waves are rhythmical waves that occur at fre- The discharge of a single neuron or single nerve fiber in quencies between 8 and 13 cycles/sec and are found in the the brain can never be recorded from the surface of the EEGs of almost all healthy adults when they are awake and head. Instead, many thousands or even millions of neurons in a quiet, resting state of cerebration. These waves occur or fibers must fire synchronously for the potentials from the most intensely in the occipital region but can also be re- individual neurons or fibers to summate enough to be re- corded from the parietal and frontal regions of the scalp. corded through the skull. Thus, the intensity of the brain 756 Chapter 60 States of Brain Activity—Sleep, Brain Waves, Epilepsy, Psychoses, and Dementia Surgical Sleep Psychomotor Relaxation Attention Tonic-clonic anesthesia Deteriorated epileptics Fast component of absence seizure Confusion 1 second Figure 60- 4. Effect of varying degrees of cerebral activity on the basic rhythm of the electroencephalogram. waves from the scalp is determined mainly by the numbers despite markedly increased cortical activity, as shown in of neurons and fibers that fire in synchrony with one an- Figure 60- 3. other, not by the total level of electrical activity in the brain. Changes in the EEG at Different Stages of Wakeful- In fact, strong nonsynchronous nerve signals often nullify ness and Sleep one another in the recorded brain waves because of oppos- ing polarities. This phenomenon is demonstrated in Figure Figure 60- 1 shows typical EEG patterns in different stages 60- 3, which shows, when the eyes were closed, synchro- of wakefulness
