Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ing polarities. This phenomenon is demonstrated in Figure Figure 60- 1 shows typical EEG patterns in different stages 60- 3, which shows, when the eyes were closed, synchro- of wakefulness and sleep. Alert wakefulness is character- nous discharge of many neurons in the cerebral cortex at a ized by high-f requency beta waves, whereas quiet wakeful- frequency of about 12/sec, thus causing alpha waves. Then, ness is usually associated with alpha waves, as demonstrat- when the eyes were opened, the activity of the brain in- ed by the first two EEGs of the figure. creased greatly, but synchronization of the signals became Slow- wave sleep is divided into four stages. In the first so little that the brain waves mainly nullified one another. stage, a stage of light sleep, the voltage of the EEG waves The resultant effect was low voltage waves of generally high becomes low. This stage is broken by “sleep spindles” (i.e., but irregular frequency, the beta waves. short spindle- shaped bursts of alpha waves that occur pe- Origin of Alpha Waves. Alpha waves will not occur in riodically). In stages 2, 3, and 4 of slow- wave sleep, the fre- the cerebral cortex without cortical connections with the quency of the EEG becomes progressively slower until it thalamus. Conversely, stimulation in the nonspecific layer reaches a frequency of only one to three waves per second of reticular nuclei that surround the thalamus or in “dif- in stage 4; these waves are delta waves. fuse” nuclei deep inside the thalamus often sets up elec- Figure 60- 1 also shows the EEG during REM sleep. It is trical waves in the thalamocortical system at a frequency often difficult to tell the difference between this brain wave between 8 and 13/sec, which is the natural frequency of pattern and that of an awake, active person. The waves are the alpha waves. Therefore, alpha waves are thought to re- irregular and of high frequency, which are normally sug- sult from spontaneous feedback oscillation in this diffuse gestive of desynchronized nervous activity as found in the thalamocortical system, possibly including the reticular ac- awake state. Therefore, REM sleep is frequently called de- tivating system in the brain stem as well. This oscillation synchronized sleep because there is lack of synchrony in the presumably causes the periodicity of the alpha waves and firing of the neurons despite significant brain activity. the synchronous
