Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


oscillation synchronized sleep because there is lack of synchrony in the presumably causes the periodicity of the alpha waves and firing of the neurons despite significant brain activity. the synchronous activation of literally millions of cortical Seizures and Epilepsy neurons during each wave. Origin of Delta Waves. Transection of the fiber tracts Seizures are temporary disruptions of brain function from the thalamus to the cerebral cortex, which blocks tha- caused by uncontrolled excessive neuronal activity. De- lamic activation of the cortex and thereby eliminates the pending on the distribution of neuronal discharges, seizure alpha waves, nevertheless does not block delta waves in the manifestations can range from experiential phenomena cortex. This indicates that some synchronizing mechanism that are barely noticeable to dramatic convulsions. These can occur in the cortical neuronal system by itself—mainly temporary symptomatic seizures usually do not persist if independent of lower structures in the brain—to cause the the underlying disorder is corrected. They can be caused by delta waves. multiple neurological or medical conditions, such as acute Delta waves also occur during deep slow- wave sleep, electrolyte disorders, hypoglycemia, drugs (e.g., cocaine), which suggests that the cortex then is mainly released from eclampsia, kidney failure, hypertensive encephalopathy, the activating influences of the thalamus and other lower meningitis, and so forth. Approximately 5% to 10% of the centers. population will have at least one seizure in their lifetime. In contrast to symptomatic seizures, epilepsy is a chronic Effect of Varying Levels of Cerebral Activity on the condition of recurrent seizures that can also vary from brief Frequency of the EEG and nearly undetectable symptoms to periods of vigorous There is a general correlation between level of cerebral ac- shaking and convulsions. Epilepsy is not a single disease. tivity and average frequency of the EEG rhythm, with the Its clinical symptoms are heterogeneous and reflect multi- average frequency increasing progressively with higher ple underlying pathophysiological mechanisms that cause degrees of activity. This is demonstrated in Figure 60- 4, cerebral dysfunction and injury, such as trauma, stroke, which shows the existence of delta waves in surgical anes- tumors, infection, or degenerative changes. Hereditary fac- thesia and deep sleep, theta waves in psychomotor states, tors appear to be important, although a specific cause can- alpha waves during relaxed states, and beta waves during not be identified in many patients and several factors may periods of intense mental activity or fright. During
