Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


specific cause can- alpha waves during relaxed states, and beta waves during not be identified in many patients and several factors may periods of intense mental activity or fright. During periods coexist, reflecting an acquired brain pathology and genetic of mental activity, the waves usually become asynchronous predisposition. Epilepsy is estimated to affect approximate- rather than synchronous, so the voltage falls considerably ly 1% of the population, or 65 million people worldwide. 757 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology At a basic level an epileptic seizure is caused by a disrup- Seizure focal region tion of the normal balance between inhibitory and excita- tory currents or transmission in one or more regions of the Propagation to Propagation to brain. Drugs or pathological factors that increase neuronal contralateral ipsilateral cortex cortex excitation or impair inhibition tend to be epileptogenic (i.e., predisposing a person to epilepsy), whereas effective antie- pileptic drugs attenuate excitation and facilitate inhibition. In cases in which a person has brain injury due to trauma, stroke, or infection, there may be a delay of several months or years after the injury before the seizures begin. Epileptic seizures can be classified into two major types: (1) focal seizures (also called partial seizures) that are lim- ited to a focal area of one cerebral hemisphere, and (2) gen- A eralized seizures that diffusely involve both hemispheres of the cerebral cortex. However, partial seizures may some- Seizure focal region Activation of both times evolve into generalized seizures. hemispheres via projections to Focal (Partial) Epileptic Seizures thalamus Focal epileptic seizures begin in a small localized region of the cerebral cortex or deeper structures of the cer- ebrum and brain stem and have clinical manifestations that reflect the function of the affected brain area. Most often, focal epilepsy results from some localized organic lesion or functional abnormality, such as (1) scar tissue Thalamus in the brain that pulls on the adjacent neuronal tissue, (2) a tumor that compresses an area of the brain, (3) a de- stroyed area of brain tissue, or (4) congenitally deranged B local circuitry. These lesions can promote extremely rapid discharges in the local neurons; when the discharge rate rises above several hundred per second, synchronous waves begin to spread over adjacent cortical regions. These waves presum- ably result from localized reverberating circuits that may Primary gradually recruit adjacent areas of the cortex into
