Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


second, synchronous waves begin to spread over adjacent cortical regions. These waves presum- ably result from localized reverberating circuits that may Primary gradually recruit adjacent areas of the cortex into the epi- generalized leptic discharge zone. The process spreads to adjacent areas seizure at a rate as slow as a few millimeters per minute to as fast as several centimeters per second. Focal seizures can spread locally from a focus or more re- Thalamus motely to the contralateral cortex and subcortical areas of the brain through projections to the thalamus, which has wide- spread connections to both hemispheres (Figure 60- 5). When C such a wave of excitation spreads over the motor cortex, it causes a progressive “march” of muscle contractions through- Figure 60- 5. A, Propagation of seizures from focal regions of the cortex can occur through fibers in the same cerebral hemisphere or out the opposite side of the body, beginning most characteris- fibers that connect to the contralateral cortex. B, Secondary generali- tically in the mouth region and marching progressively down- zation of a focal seizure can sometimes occur by spread to subcortical ward to the legs but at other times marching in the opposite areas through projections to the thalamus, resulting in activation of direction. This phenomenon is called Jacksonian march. both hemispheres. C, Primary generalized seizure spreads rapidly and Focal seizures are often classified as simple partial sei- simultaneously to both cerebral hemispheres through interconnec- zures when there is no major change in consciousness or as tions between the thalamus and cortex. complex partial seizures when consciousness is impaired. Simple partial seizures may be preceded by an aura, with The time after the seizure, prior to the return of normal neu- sensations such as fear, followed by motor signs, such as rological function, is called the postictal period. rhythmic jerking or tonic stiffening movements of a body Psychomotor, temporal lobe, and limbic seizures are part. A focal epileptic attack may remain confined to a single terms that have been used in the past to describe many area of the brain, often the temporal lobe, but in some cases of the behaviors that are now classified as complex partial strong signals spread from the focal region, and the person seizures. However, these terms are not synonymous. Com- may lose consciousness. Complex partial seizures may also plex partial seizures can arise from regions other than the begin
