Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and the person seizures. However, these terms are not synonymous. Com- may lose consciousness. Complex partial seizures may also plex partial seizures can arise from regions other than the begin with an aura followed by impaired consciousness and temporal lobe and do not always involve the limbic system. strange repetitive movements (automatisms), such as chew- Also, automatisms (the “psychomotor” element) are not ing or lip smacking. After recovery from the seizure the per- always present in complex partial seizures. Attacks of this son may have no memory of the attack, except for the aura. type frequently involve part of the limbic portion of the 758 Chapter 60 States of Brain Activity—Sleep, Brain Waves, Epilepsy, Psychoses, and Dementia that the abnormal neuronal circuitry responsible for the at- 100 µV tack strongly involves the basal regions of the brain that drive the two halves of the cerebrum simultaneously. Electrical recordings from the thalamus, as well as from Generalized tonic-clonic seizure the reticular formation of the brain stem during the gen- eralized tonic- clonic seizure, show typical high- voltage ac- 50 µV tivity in both of these areas similar to that recorded from the cerebral cortex. Therefore, a generalized tonic- clonic seizure presumably involves not only abnormal activation Absence seizure of the thalamus and cerebral cortex but also abnormal acti- vation in the subthalamic brain stem portions of the brain- 50 µV activating system. What Initiates a Generalized Tonic- Clonic Seizure? Psychomotor The majority of generalized seizures are idiopathic, Figure 60- 6. Electroencephalograms in different types of epilepsy. which means that the cause is unknown. Many people who have generalized tonic- clonic attacks have a heredi- brain, such as the hippocampus, the amygdala, the septum, tary predisposition to epilepsy, a predisposition that oc- and/or portions of the temporal cortex. curs in about 1 of every 100 persons. In these people, The lowest tracing of Figure 60- 6 demonstrates a typi- factors that can increase the excitability of the abnormal cal EEG during a psychomotor seizure, showing a low- “epileptogenic” circuitry enough to precipitate attacks frequency rectangular wave with a frequency between 2 include (1) strong emotional stimuli, (2) alkalosis caused and 4/sec and with occasional superimposed 14/sec waves. by overbreathing, (3) drugs, (4) fever, and (5) loud noises or flashing lights. Generalized Seizures Even in people who are not genetically predisposed, Generalized epileptic seizures are characterized by diffuse, certain types of traumatic lesions
