Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fever, and (5) loud noises or flashing lights. Generalized Seizures Even in people who are not genetically predisposed, Generalized epileptic seizures are characterized by diffuse, certain types of traumatic lesions in almost any part of the excessive, and uncontrolled neuronal discharges that at the brain can cause excess excitability of local brain areas, as outset spread rapidly and simultaneously to both cerebral we discuss shortly. These local brain areas also sometimes hemispheres through interconnections between the thala- transmit signals into the activating systems of the brain to mus and cortex (Figure 60- 5). However, it is sometimes elicit tonic- clonic seizures. difficult clinically to distinguish between a primary general- What Stops the Generalized Tonic- Clonic Attack? The ized seizure and a focal seizure that spreads rapidly. Gener- extreme neuronal overactivity during a tonic- clonic attack alized seizures are subdivided primarily on the basis of the is presumed to be caused by massive simultaneous activa- ictal motor manifestations which, in turn, depend on the tion of many reverberating neuronal pathways throughout extent to which subcortical and brain stem regions partici- the brain. Although the factors that terminate the attack pate in the seizure. are not well understood, it is likely that active inhibition oc- curs by inhibitory neurons that have been activated by the Generalized Tonic-C lonic (Grand Mal) Seizures) attack. Generalized tonic- clonic seizures, previously called grand Absence Seizures (Petit Mal Seizures) mal seizures, are characterized by an abrupt loss of con- sciousness and extreme neuronal discharges in all areas of Absence seizures, formerly called petit mal seizures, usu- the brain—the cerebral cortex, the deeper parts of the cer- ally begin in childhood or early adolescence and account ebrum, and even the brain stem. Also, discharges transmit- for 15% to 20% of epilepsy cases in children. Absence sei- ted all the way into the spinal cord sometimes cause gen- zures almost certainly involve the thalamocortical brain eralized tonic seizures of the entire body, followed toward activating system. They are usually characterized by 3 to 30 the end of the attack by alternating tonic and spasmodic seconds of unconsciousness or diminished consciousness, muscle contractions called tonic- clonic seizures. Often the during which time the person often stares and has twitch- person bites or “swallows” his or her tongue and may have like contractions of muscles, usually in the head region, difficulty breathing, sometimes to the extent that cyanosis especially blinking of
