Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


bites or “swallows” his or her tongue and may have like contractions of muscles, usually in the head region, difficulty breathing, sometimes to the extent that cyanosis especially blinking of the eyes; this phase is followed by a occurs. Also, signals transmitted from the brain to the vis- rapid return of consciousness and resumption of previous cera frequently cause urination and defecation. activities. The total sequence is called the absence syndrome The usual generalized tonic- clonic seizure lasts from a or absence epilepsy. few seconds to 3 to 4 minutes. It is also characterized by The patient may have one such attack in many months postseizure depression of the entire nervous system; the or, in rare cases, may have a rapid series of attacks, one after person remains in stupor for 1 minute to many minutes the other. The usual course is for the absence seizures to after the seizure attack is over and then often remains se- appear first during childhood or adolescence and then to verely fatigued and asleep for hours thereafter. disappear by the age of 30 years. On occasion, an absence The top recording of Figure 60- 6 shows a typical EEG seizure will initiate a generalized tonic- clonic (grand mal) from almost any region of the cortex during the tonic phase attack. of generalized tonic- clonic seizure. This demonstrates that The brain wave pattern in a person with absence seizure high- voltage, high-f requency discharges occur over the en- epilepsy is demonstrated by the middle recording of Figure tire cortex. Furthermore, the same type of discharge occurs 60- 6, which is typified by a spike and dome pattern. The on both sides of the brain at the same time, demonstrating spike and dome can be recorded over most or all of the 759 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology cerebral cortex, showing that the seizure involves much or lose their appetite and sex drive and have severe insomnia. most of the thalamocortical activating system of the brain. Often associated with these symptoms is a state of psycho- In fact, animal studies suggest that it results from oscilla- motor agitation despite the depression. tion of (1) inhibitory thalamic reticular neurons (which are Moderate numbers of norepinephrine- secreting neurons inhibitory gamma-a minobutyric acid [GABA]- producing are located in the brain stem, especially in the locus ceruleus. neurons) and (2) excitatory thalamocortical
