Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


(which are Moderate numbers of norepinephrine- secreting neurons inhibitory gamma-a minobutyric acid [GABA]- producing are located in the brain stem, especially in the locus ceruleus. neurons) and (2) excitatory thalamocortical and cortico- These neurons send fibers upward to most parts of the brain thalamic neurons. limbic system, thalamus, and cerebral cortex. Also, many serotonin- producing neurons located in the midline raphe Treatment of Epilepsy nuclei of the lower pons and medulla send fibers to many ar- Most of the currently available drugs used to treat epi- eas of the limbic system and to some other areas of the brain. lepsy appear to block the initiation or spread of seizures, A principal reason for believing that depression might although the precise mode of action for some drugs is un- be caused by diminished activity of norepinephrine- and known or may involve multiple actions. Some of the major serotonin- secreting neurons is that drugs that block se- effects of various antiepileptic drugs include the following: cretion of norepinephrine and serotonin, such as reser- (1) blockade of voltage- dependent sodium channels (e.g., pine, frequently cause depression. Conversely, about 70% carbamazepine and phenytoin); (2) altered calcium cur- of depressive patients can be treated effectively with drugs rents (e.g., ethosuximide); (3) an increase in GABA activity that increase the excitatory effects of norepinephrine and (e.g., phenobarbital and benzodiazepines); (4) inhibition of serotonin at the nerve endings, for example, as follows: (1) receptors for glutamate, the most prevalent excitatory neu- monoamine oxidase inhibitors, which block destruction of rotransmitter (e.g., perampanel); and (5) multiple mecha- norepinephrine and serotonin once they are formed, and nisms of action (e.g., valproate and topiramate, which block (2) tricyclic antidepressants, such as imipramine and ami- voltage- dependent sodium channels and increase GABA triptyline, which block reuptake of norepinephrine and ser- levels in the brain). The choice of antiepileptic drug rec- otonin by nerve endings so that these transmitters remain ommended by current guidelines depends on the type of active for longer periods after secretion. seizure, the age of the patient, and other factors, but cor- Some patients with mental depression alternate be- rection of the underlying cause of the seizures is the best tween depression and mania, which is called either bipolar option when possible. disorder or manic- depressive psychosis, and fewer patients Epilepsy can usually be controlled with appropriate exhibit only mania without the depressive episodes. Drugs medications. However, when the
