Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


option when possible. disorder or manic- depressive psychosis, and fewer patients Epilepsy can usually be controlled with appropriate exhibit only mania without the depressive episodes. Drugs medications. However, when the epilepsy is medically in- that diminish the formation or action of norepinephrine tractable and does not respond to treatments, the EEG can and serotonin, such as lithium compounds, can be effective sometimes be used to localize abnormal spiking waves origi- in treating the manic phase of the condition. nating in areas of organic brain disease that predispose to It is presumed that the norepinephrine and serotonin focal epileptic attacks. Once such a focal point is found, sur- systems normally provide drive to the limbic areas of the gical excision of the focus frequently prevents future attacks. brain to increase a person’s sense of well- being and to cre- ate happiness, contentment, good appetite, appropriate sex Roles of Specific Neurotransmitter Systems in drive, and psychomotor balance—although too much of a Brain Disorders good thing can cause mania. In support of this concept is Clinical studies of patients with different psychoses or dif- the fact that pleasure and reward centers of the hypothala- ferent types of dementia have suggested that many of these mus and surrounding areas receive large numbers of nerve conditions result from diminished function of neurons endings from the norepinephrine and serotonin systems. that secrete a specific neurotransmitter. Use of appropriate Schizophrenia—Possible Exaggerated Function of Part drugs to counteract loss of the respective neurotransmitter of the Dopamine System has been successful in treating some patients. In Chapter 57, we discussed the cause of Parkinson's Schizophrenia comes in many varieties. One of the most disease, which results from loss of neurons in the substan- common types is seen in the person who hears voices and tia nigra, whose nerve endings secrete dopamine in the cau- has delusions, intense fear, or other types of feelings that date nucleus and putamen. Also in Chapter 57, we pointed are unreal. Many schizophrenics are highly paranoid, with out that in Huntington's disease, loss of GABA- secreting a sense of persecution from outside sources. They may de- neurons and acetylcholine- secreting neurons is associated velop incoherent speech, dissociation of ideas, and abnor- with specific abnormal motor patterns plus dementia oc- mal sequences of thought, and they are often withdrawn, curring in the same patient. sometimes with abnormal posture and even rigidity. There are reasons to
