Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


motor patterns plus dementia oc- mal sequences of thought, and they are often withdrawn, curring in the same patient. sometimes with abnormal posture and even rigidity. There are reasons to believe that schizophrenia results Depression and Manic-D epressive Psychoses— from one or more of three possibilities: (1) multiple areas in Decreased Activity of the Norepinephrine and the cerebral cortex prefrontal lobes in which neural signals Serotonin Neurotransmitter Systems have become blocked or where processing of the signals be- Evidence has accumulated suggesting that mental depres- comes dysfunctional because many synapses normally excit- sion psychosis, which occurs in more than 8 million people ed by the neurotransmitter glutamate lose their responsive- in the United States, might be caused by diminished for- ness to this transmitter; (2) excessive excitement of a group mation in the brain of norepinephrine or serotonin, or both. of neurons that secrete dopamine in the behavioral centers of (New evidence has implicated still other neurotransmit- the brain, including in the frontal lobes; and/or (3) abnormal ters.) Depressed patients experience symptoms of grief, function of a crucial part of the brain’s limbic behavioral con- unhappiness, despair, and misery. In addition, they often trol system centered around the hippocampus. 760 Chapter 60 States of Brain Activity—Sleep, Brain Waves, Epilepsy, Psychoses, and Dementia The reason for believing that the prefrontal lobes are in- disease approximately doubles with every 5 years beyond volved in schizophrenia is that a schizophrenic- like pattern age 65, with about 30% of 85- year- olds having the disease. of mental activity can be induced in monkeys by making Alzheimer's Disease Is Associated With Accumulation multiple minute lesions in widespread areas of the prefron- of Brain Beta- Amyloid Peptide. Pathologically, one finds tal lobes. increased amounts of beta- amyloid peptide in the brains of Dopamine has been implicated in schizophrenia be- patients with Alzheimer's disease. The peptide accumulates cause schizophrenic- like symptoms develop in many pa- in amyloid plaques, which range in diameter from 10 mi- tients with Parkinson's disease when they are treated with crometers to several hundred micrometers and are found the drug called l- dopa. This drug releases dopamine in the in widespread areas of the brain, including in the cerebral brain, which is advantageous for treating Parkinson's dis- cortex, hippocampus, basal ganglia, thalamus, and even ease, but at the same time it depresses various portions of the cerebellum. Thus, Alzheimer's disease appears to be
