Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


for treating Parkinson's dis- cortex, hippocampus, basal ganglia, thalamus, and even ease, but at the same time it depresses various portions of the cerebellum. Thus, Alzheimer's disease appears to be a the prefrontal lobes and other related areas. metabolic degenerative disease. It has been suggested that in persons with schizophre- A key role for excess accumulation of beta-a myloid pep- nia, excess dopamine is secreted by a group of dopamine- tide in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease is suggested by secreting neurons whose cell bodies lie in the ventral teg- the following observations: (1) all currently known mutations mentum of the mesencephalon, medial and superior to the associated with Alzheimer's disease increase the production substantia nigra. These neurons give rise to the so-c alled of beta-a myloid peptide; (2) patients with trisomy 21 (Down mesolimbic dopaminergic system that projects nerve fibers syndrome) have three copies of the gene for amyloid precur- and dopamine secretion into the medial and anterior por- sor protein and develop neurological characteristics of Alz- tions of the limbic system, especially into the hippocam- heimer's disease by midlife; (3) patients who have abnormality pus, amygdala, anterior caudate nucleus, and portions of of a gene that controls apolipoprotein E, a blood protein that the prefrontal lobes. All these areas are powerful behavioral transports cholesterol to the tissues, have accelerated deposi- control centers. tion of amyloid and greatly increased risk for Alzheimer's dis- An even more compelling reason for believing that ease; (4) transgenic mice that overproduce the human amyloid schizophrenia might be caused by excess production of precursor protein have learning and memory deficits in as- dopamine is that many drugs that are effective in treating sociation with the accumulation of amyloid plaques; and (5) schizophrenia, such as chlorpromazine, haloperidol, and generation of anti-a myloid antibodies in humans with Alzhei- thiothixene, all either decrease secretion of dopamine at mer's disease appears to attenuate the disease process. dopaminergic nerve endings or decrease the effect of do- Vascular Disorders May Contribute to Progression of pamine on neurons. Alzheimer's Disease. There is also accumulating evidence Finally, possible involvement of the hippocampus in that cerebrovascular disease caused by hypertension and schizophrenia was discovered when it was learned that in atherosclerosis may play a key role in dementia associated persons with schizophrenia, the hippocampus is often re- with Alzheimer's disease. Cerebrovascular disease is the duced in size, especially in the dominant hemisphere. second
