Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a key role in dementia associated persons with schizophrenia, the hippocampus is often re- with Alzheimer's disease. Cerebrovascular disease is the duced in size, especially in the dominant hemisphere. second most common cause of acquired cognitive impair- Alzheimer's Disease—Amyloid Plaques and ment and dementia and likely contributes to cognitive de- Depressed Memory cline in persons with Alzheimer's disease. In fact, many of the common risk factors for cerebrovascular disease, such Alzheimer's disease is defined as premature aging of the as hypertension, diabetes, and hyperlipidemia, are also rec- brain, usually beginning in mid adult life and progressing ognized to greatly increase the risk for developing dementia rapidly to extreme loss of mental powers—similar to that and progression of Alzheimer's disease. About 10% to 20% seen in very old age. The clinical features of Alzheimer's of brains from individuals with dementia show evidence of disease include (1) an amnesic type of memory impair- vascular dementia alone. In older individuals with Alzhei- ment, (2) deterioration of language, and (3) visuospatial mer’s disease, vascular disease is common with about 50% of deficits. Motor and sensory abnormalities, gait distur- patients having pathologic evidence of “silent strokes”—small bances, and seizures are uncommon until the late phases of brain infarcts that cause no readily apparent symptoms but the disease. One consistent finding in Alzheimer's disease could contribute to cognitive impairment. is loss of neurons in the part of the limbic pathway that drives the memory process. Loss of this memory function is devastating. Bibliography Alzheimer's disease is a progressive and fatal neuro- Anafi RC, Kayser MS, Raizen DM: Exploring phylogeny to find the degenerative disorder that results in impairment of the function of sleep. Nat Rev Neurosci 20:109, 2019. person’s ability to perform activities of daily living, as well Arrigoni E, Chee MJS, Fuller PM: To eat or to sleep: That is a lateral as a variety of neuropsychiatric symptoms and behavioral hypothalamic question. Neuropharmacology 154:34, 2019. disturbances in the later stages of the disease. Patients with Besedovsky L, Lange T, Haack M: The sleep- immune crosstalk in Alzheimer's disease usually require continuous care within health and disease. Physiol Rev 99:1325, 2019. a few years after the disease begins. Butterfield DA, Halliwell B: Oxidative stress, dysfunctional glucose me- Alzheimer's disease is a common form of dementia tabolism and Alzheimer disease. Nat Rev Neurosci 20:148, 2019. in elderly persons; more than 5.5 million people in the Buysse DJ:
