Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


J Med 379:270, Tononi G, Cirelli C: Sleep and synaptic down-s election. Eur J Neurosci 2018. 2019 Jan 5. https//www.doi.org/10.1111/ejn.14335 762 CHAPTER 6 1 The Autonomic Nervous System and the Adrenal Medulla The autonomic nervous system is the portion of the nervous bral sympathetic chains of ganglia that are interconnected system that controls most visceral functions of the body. This with the spinal nerves on the side of the vertebral column, system helps to control arterial pressure, gastrointestinal (2) prevertebral ganglia (the celiac, superior mesenteric, motility, gastrointestinal secretion, urinary bladder empty- aorticorenal, inferior mesenteric, and hypogastric), and (3) nerves extending from the ganglia to the different internal ing, sweating, body temperature, and many other activities. organs. Some of these activities are controlled almost entirely and The sympathetic nerve fibers originate in the spinal cord some only partially by the autonomic nervous system. along with spinal nerves between cord segments T1 and L2 One of the most striking characteristics of the auto- and pass first into the sympathetic chain and then to the tis- nomic nervous system is the rapidity and intensity with sues and organs that are stimulated by the sympathetic nerves. which it can change visceral functions. For example, Preganglionic and Postganglionic Sympathetic Neurons within 3 to 5 seconds, it can increase the heart rate to twice normal, and within 10 to 15 seconds the arterial The sympathetic nerves are different from skeletal motor pressure can be doubled. At the other extreme, the arte- nerves in the following way. Each sympathetic pathway rial pressure can be decreased low enough within 10 to 15 from the cord to the stimulated tissue is composed of two seconds to cause fainting. Sweating can begin within sec- neurons, a preganglionic neuron and a postganglionic neu- ron, in contrast to only a single neuron in the skeletal motor onds, and the urinary bladder may empty involuntarily, pathway. The cell body of each preganglionic neuron lies in also within seconds. the intermediolateral horn of the spinal cord; its fiber pass- es through a ventral root of the cord into the corresponding GENERAL ORGANIZATION OF THE spinal nerve, as shown in Figure 61- 2. AUTONOMIC NERVOUS SYSTEM Immediately after the spinal nerve leaves the spinal canal, the preganglionic sympathetic fibers leave the spinal nerve The autonomic nervous system is activated mainly by cen- and pass through a white ramus into one of the ganglia of the
