Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the preganglionic sympathetic fibers leave the spinal nerve The autonomic nervous system is activated mainly by cen- and pass through a white ramus into one of the ganglia of the ters located in the spinal cord, brain stem, and hypothala- sympathetic chain. The fibers then can take one of the fol- mus. In addition, portions of the cerebral cortex, especially lowing three courses: (1) they can synapse with postgangli- of the limbic cortex, can transmit signals to the lower cen- onic sympathetic neurons in the ganglion that they enter; (2) ters and in this way can influence autonomic control. they can pass upward or downward in the chain and synapse in one of the other ganglia of the chain; or (3) they can pass The autonomic nervous system also often operates for variable distances through the chain and then through through visceral reflexes. That is, subconscious sensory one of the sympathetic nerves radiating outward from the signals from visceral organs can enter the autonomic gan- chain, finally synapsing in a peripheral sympathetic ganglion. glia, the brain stem, or the hypothalamus and then return The postganglionic sympathetic neuron thus originates subconscious reflex responses directly back to the visceral either in one of the sympathetic chain ganglia or in one of organs to control their activities. the peripheral sympathetic ganglia. From either of these The efferent autonomic signals are transmitted to two sources, the postganglionic fibers then travel to their the various organs of the body through two major sub- destinations in the various organs. divisions called the sympathetic nervous system and the Sympathetic Nerve Fibers in the Skeletal Nerves. Some parasympathetic nervous system, the characteristics and of the postganglionic fibers pass back from the sympathetic functions of which are described in the following sections. chain into the spinal nerves through gray rami at all levels of the cord, as shown in Figure 61- 2. These sympathetic Physiologic Anatomy of the Sympathetic Nervous fibers are all very small type C fibers, and they extend to all System parts of the body via the skeletal nerves. They control the blood vessels, sweat glands, and piloerector muscles of the Figure 61- 1 shows the general organization of the periph- hairs. About 8% of the fibers in the average skeletal nerve eral portions of the sympathetic nervous system. Shown are sympathetic fibers, indicating their great importance. specifically in the figure are (1) one of the
