Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fibers in the average skeletal nerve eral portions of the sympathetic nervous system. Shown are sympathetic fibers, indicating their great importance. specifically in the figure are (1) one of the two paraverte- 763 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Intermedio- Dorsal root lateral horn Sympathetic chain Eye Gray ramus Heart Piloerector muscle Ventral root Spinal C1 nerve Splanchnic nerve Bronchi White ramus Peripheral Sweat ganglion Spinal gland nerve T1 Liver Stomach Preganglionic neuron Blood Effector Sensory Celiac vessel endings endings ganglion Postganglionic neuron Pancreas Gut Intestine Sensory neuron Spinal cord from Superior Figure 61- 2. Nerve connections among the spinal cord, spinal T1-L2 mesenteric nerves, sympathetic chain, and peripheral sympathetic nerves. ganglion Ileocecal valve T12 Aortico- Adrenal and (5) from T12, L1, and L2 into the legs. This distribution L1 renal medulla is only approximate and overlaps greatly. L2 ganglion Kidney The distribution of sympathetic nerves to each organ is determined partly by the locus in the embryo from which Inferior mesenteric the organ originated. For example, the heart receives many ganglion Colon sympathetic nerve fibers from the neck portion of the sym- S1 pathetic chain because the heart originated in the neck of the embryo before translocating into the thorax. Likewise, the abdominal organs receive most of their sympathetic Anal innervation from the lower thoracic spinal cord segments sphincter because most of the primitive gut originated in this area. Hypogastric Special Sympathetic Nerve Endings in the Adrenal Me- Dorsal plexus Ureter dullae. Preganglionic sympathetic nerve fibers pass, with- root out synapsing, all the way from the intermediolateral horn Detrusor Gray cells of the spinal cord, through the sympathetic chains, ramus Trigone then through the splanchnic nerves, and finally into the two Genitalia Bladder adrenal medullae. There they end directly on modified neu- ronal cells that secrete epinephrine and norepinephrine into Ventral Preganglionic neuron root the blood stream. These secretory cells embryologically are White derived from nervous tissue and are actually postganglionic Postganglionic neuron ramus Chain neurons; indeed, they even have rudimentary nerve fibers, and it is the endings of these fibers that secrete the adrenal Figure 61- 1. Sympathetic nervous system. The black lines represent hormones epinephrine and norepinephrine. postganglionic fibers, and the red lines show preganglionic fibers. Physiological Anatomy of the Parasympathetic Nervous System Segmental Distribution of the Sympathetic Nerve Fibers. The sympathetic pathways that originate in the different seg- The parasympathetic
