Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


red lines show preganglionic fibers. Physiological Anatomy of the Parasympathetic Nervous System Segmental Distribution of the Sympathetic Nerve Fibers. The sympathetic pathways that originate in the different seg- The parasympathetic nervous system is shown in Figure ments of the spinal cord are not necessarily distributed to 61- 3, which demonstrates that parasympathetic fibers leave the same part of the body as the somatic spinal nerve fib- the central nervous system through cranial nerves III, VII, ers from the same segments. Instead, the sympathetic fibers IX, and X; additional parasympathetic fibers leave the low- from cord segment T1 generally pass as follows: (1) up the ermost part of the spinal cord through the second and third sympathetic chain to terminate in the head; (2) from T2 to sacral spinal nerves and occasionally the first and fourth terminate in the neck; (3) from T3, T4, T5, and T6 into the sacral nerves. About 75% of all parasympathetic nerve fib- thorax; (4) from T7, T8, T9, T10, and T11 into the abdomen; ers are in the vagus nerves (cranial nerve X), passing to the 764 Chapter 61 The Autonomic Nervous System and the Adrenal Medulla bladder, and lower portions of the ureters. Also, this sacral group of parasympathetics supplies nerve signals to the ex- ternal genitalia to cause erection. Preganglionic and Postganglionic Parasympathetic Ciliary Neurons. The parasympathetic system, like the sympa- ganglion thetic system, has both preganglionic and postganglionic Ciliary muscle neurons. However, except in the case of a few cranial par- III Pupillary sphincter asympathetic nerves, the preganglionic fibers pass unin- VII Pterygopalatine Lacrimal and terrupted all the way to the organ that is to be controlled. ganglion nasal glands The postganglionic neurons are located in the wall of the C1 organ. The preganglionic fibers synapse with these neu- IX Submandibular rons, and extremely short postganglionic fibers, a fraction ganglion of a millimeter to several centimeters in length, leave the X neurons to innervate the tissues of the organ. This loca- tion of the parasympathetic postganglionic neurons in C8 Otic ganglion the visceral organ is quite different from the arrangement T1 of the sympathetic ganglia because the cell bodies of the sympathetic postganglionic neurons are almost always lo- Parotid Submandibular cated in the ganglia of the sympathetic chain or in various gland and sublingual other discrete ganglia in the abdomen, rather than in the glands excited organ. Heart BASIC CHARACTERISTICS OF Stomach
