Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the ganglia of the sympathetic chain or in various gland and sublingual other discrete ganglia in the abdomen, rather than in the glands excited organ. Heart BASIC CHARACTERISTICS OF Stomach SYMPATHETIC AND PARASYMPATHETIC FUNCTION Pylorus T12 CHOLINERGIC AND ADRENERGIC FIBERS— L1 Colon SECRETION OF ACETYLCHOLINE OR NOREPINEPHRINE Small intestine The sympathetic and parasympathetic nerve fibers secrete L5 mainly one or the other of two synaptic transmitter sub- S1 S2 stances, acetylcholine or norepinephrine. The fibers that S3 secrete acetylcholine are said to be cholinergic. Those that Anal sphincter S4 secrete norepinephrine are said to be adrenergic, a term derived from adrenalin, which is an alternate name for epinephrine. Preganglionic neuron Detrusor All preganglionic neurons are cholinergic in both Trigone the sympathetic and the parasympathetic nervous sys- Postganglionic neuron Genitalia Bladder tems (Figure 61-4 ). Acetylcholine or acetylcholine- like substances, when applied to the ganglia, will Figure 61- 3. The parasympathetic nervous system. The blue lines excite both sympathetic and parasympathetic post- represent preganglionic fibers and the black lines show postgangli- onic fibers. ganglionic neurons. Either all or almost all of the post- ganglionic neurons of the parasympathetic system are also cholinergic. In contrast, most of the postganglionic entire thoracic and abdominal regions of the body. The sympathetic neurons are adrenergic. However, the vagus nerves supply parasympathetic nerves to the heart, postganglionic sympathetic nerve fibers to the sweat lungs, esophagus, stomach, entire small intestine, proximal glands and perhaps to a very few blood vessels are half of the colon, liver, gallbladder, pancreas, kidneys, and cholinergic. upper portions of the ureters. Thus, the terminal nerve endings of the parasympa- Parasympathetic fibers in the third cranial nerve go to thetic system all or virtually all secrete acetylcholine. the pupillary sphincter and ciliary muscle of the eye. Fibers Almost all of the sympathetic nerve endings secrete from the seventh cranial nerve pass to the lacrimal, nasal, norepinephrine, but a few secrete acetylcholine. These and submandibular glands, and fibers from the ninth cra- neurotransmitters in turn act on the different organs nial nerve go to the parotid gland. to cause respective parasympathetic or sympathetic The sacral parasympathetic fibers are in the pelvic nerves, which pass through the spinal nerve sacral plexus effects. Therefore, acetylcholine is called a parasympa- on each side of the cord at the S2 and S3 levels. These fib- thetic transmitter and norepinephrine is called a sympa- ers then distribute to the
