Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


called a parasympa- on each side of the cord at the S2 and S3 levels. These fib- thetic transmitter and norepinephrine is called a sympa- ers then distribute to the descending colon, rectum, urinary thetic transmitter. 765 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology PARASYMPATHETIC SYMPATHETIC Mechanisms of Transmitter Secretion and Removal at Postganglionic Endings Secretion of Acetylcholine and Norepinephrine by Postganglionic Nerve Endings. A few of the postgan- glionic autonomic nerve endings, especially those of the parasympathetic nerves, are similar to but much smaller than those of the skeletal neuromuscular junction. However, many of the parasympathetic nerve fibers and almost all the sympathetic fibers merely touch the effector cells of the or- gans that they innervate as they pass by, or in some cases, they terminate in connective tissue located adjacent to the cells that are to be stimulated. Where these filaments touch ACh or pass over or near the cells to be stimulated, they usually have bulbous enlargements called varicosities (see Figure 61- 4). It is in these varicosities that the transmitter vesicles of acetylcholine or norepinephrine are synthesized and stored. Also in the varicosities are large numbers of mitochondria ACh ACh that supply adenosine triphosphate, which is required to en- ergize acetylcholine or norepinephrine synthesis. When an action potential spreads over the terminal NE fibers, the depolarization process increases the perme- ACh NE ability of the fiber membrane to calcium ions, allowing these ions to diffuse into the nerve terminals or nerve var- icosities. The calcium ions in turn cause the terminals or Norepinephrine released into varicosities to empty their contents to the exterior. Thus, Target organ bloodstream Target organ the transmitter substance is secreted. Synthesis of Acetylcholine, Its Destruction After Mitochondria Neurotransmitter Varicosities vesicle Secretion, and Its Duration of Action. Acetylcholine is Postganglionic synthesized in the terminal endings and varicosities of the axon cholinergic nerve fibers, where it is stored in vesicles in highly concentrated form until it is released. The basic chemical re- action of this synthesis is the following (CoA = coenzyme A): Target organ Neurotransmitter cell receptor Choline Acetyl-CoA+Choline ace tylt ran sfe ras e →Acetylchooline Figure 61-4 . Preganglionic sympathetic and parasympathetic ax- ons are both lightly myelinated, and both use acetylcholine (Ach) Once acetylcholine is secreted into a tissue by a cholin- as the neurotransmitter. Postganglionic axons are unmyelinated. ergic nerve ending, it persists in the
