Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


myelinated, and both use acetylcholine (Ach) Once acetylcholine is secreted into a tissue by a cholin- as the neurotransmitter. Postganglionic axons are unmyelinated. ergic nerve ending, it persists in the tissue for a few seconds Most sympathetic postganglionic axons store norepinephrine (NE) while it performs its nerve signal transmitter function. in their varicosities and release this neurotransmitter over the sur- Then it is split into an acetate ion and choline, catalyzed by face of the target tissue. Postganglionic parasympathetic axons store the enzyme acetylcholinesterase, which is bound with col- Ach in varicosities and release Ach onto the target tissue surface. lagen and glycosaminoglycans in the local connective tis- sue. This mechanism is the same as that for acetylcholine The molecular structures of acetylcholine and norepi- signal transmission and subsequent acetylcholine destruc- nephrine are as follows: tion that occurs at the neuromuscular junctions of skeletal CH 3 nerve fibers. The choline that is formed is then transported back into the terminal nerve ending, where it is used again + CH 3 C O CH 2 CH 2 N CH 3 and again for synthesis of new acetylcholine. Synthesis of Norepinephrine, Its Removal, and Its O CH Acetylcholine 3 Duration of Action. Synthesis of norepinephrine begins in the axoplasm of the terminal nerve endings of adren- HO ergic nerve fibers but is completed inside the secretory vesicles. The basic steps are the following: Hydroxylation HO CH CH 2 NH 2 1. Tyrosine Dopa Decarboxylation OH 2. Dopa Dopamine Norepinephrine 3. Transport of dopamine into the vesicles 766 snoxa cinoilgnagerP cinoilgnagtsoP )detanileym ylthgil( snoxa )detanileymnu( nagro tegrat ot yaw eht lla ssaP gnispanys tuohtiw lanerda ot yaw eht lla ssaP gnispanys tuohtiw alludem ro laretalloc ot ssaP niahc citehtapmys noilgnag Chapter 61 The Autonomic Nervous System and the Adrenal Medulla 4. Dopamine Hydroxylation Norepinephrine hibits the cell because loss of electropositive potassium ions creates hypernegativity inside the cell. In some cells, In the adrenal mtexedulla, this reaction goes still one the changed intracellular ion environment will cause an step further to transform about 80% of the norepineph- internal cell action, such as a direct effect of calcium ions rine into epinephrine, as follows: to promote smooth muscle contraction. Methylation 5. Norapinephrine Epinephrine Receptor Action by Altering Intracellular “Second After secretion of norepinephrine by the terminal Messenger” Enzymes. Another way a receptor often nerve endings, it is removed from the secretory site in functions
