Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Action by Altering Intracellular “Second After secretion of norepinephrine by the terminal Messenger” Enzymes. Another way a receptor often nerve endings, it is removed from the secretory site in functions is to activate or inactivate an enzyme (or other three ways: (1) reuptake into the adrenergic nerve endings intracellular chemical) inside the cell. The enzyme often by an active transport process, accounting for removal of is attached to the receptor protein where the receptor 50% to 80% of the secreted norepinephrine; (2) diffusion protrudes into the interior of the cell. For example, bind- away from the nerve endings into the surrounding body ing of norepinephrine with its receptor on the outside of fluids and then into the blood, accounting for removal of many cells increases the activity of the enzyme adenylyl most of the remaining norepinephrine; and (3) destruc- cyclase on the inside of the cell, which causes formation tion of small amounts by tissue enzymes. One of these of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). The cAMP enzymes is monoamine oxidase, which is found in the in turn can initiate any one of many different intracellular nerve endings, and another is catechol- O- methyl transfer- actions, with the exact effect depending on the specific ase, which is present diffusely in the tissues. effector cell and its chemical machinery. Ordinarily, the norepinephrine secreted directly into a It is easy to understand how an autonomic transmitter tissue remains active for only a few seconds, demonstrat- substance can cause inhibition in some organs or excita- ing that its reuptake and diffusion away from the tissue tion in others. This is usually determined by the nature of are rapid. However, the norepinephrine and epinephrine the receptor protein in the cell membrane and the effect secreted into the blood by the adrenal medullae remain of receptor binding on its conformational state. In each active until they diffuse into some tissue, where they can organ, the resulting effects are likely to be different from be destroyed by catechol-O - methyl transferase; this action those in other organs. occurs mainly in the liver. Therefore, when secreted into Two Principal Types of Acetylcholine the blood, both norepinephrine and epinephrine remain Receptors—Muscarinic and Nicotinic active for 10 to 30 seconds, but their activity declines to Receptors extinction over 1 minute to several minutes. Acetylcholine activates mainly two types of receptors, RECEPTORS ON THE EFFECTOR ORGANS which are called muscarinic and
