Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


but their activity declines to Receptors extinction over 1 minute to several minutes. Acetylcholine activates mainly two types of receptors, RECEPTORS ON THE EFFECTOR ORGANS which are called muscarinic and nicotinic receptors. The Before acetylcholine, norepinephrine, or epinephrine reason for these names is that muscarine, a poison from secreted at an autonomic nerve ending can stimulate an toadstools, activates only muscarinic receptors and will not effector organ, it must first bind with specific receptors on the activate nicotinic receptors, whereas nicotine activates only effector cells. The receptor is on the outside of the cell mem- nicotinic receptors. Acetylcholine activates both of them. brane, bound as a prosthetic group to a protein molecule that Muscarinic receptors, which use G proteins as their penetrates all the way through the cell membrane. Binding of signaling mechanism, are found on all effector cells that the transmitter substance with the receptor causes a confor- are stimulated by the postganglionic cholinergic neurons mational change in the structure of the protein molecule. In of either the parasympathetic nervous system or the sym- turn, the altered protein molecule excites or inhibits the cell, pathetic system. most often by (1) causing a change in cell membrane perme- Nicotinic receptors are ligand-g ated ion channels ability to one or more ions or (2) activating or inactivating found in autonomic ganglia at the synapses between the an enzyme attached to the other end of the receptor protein, preganglionic and postganglionic neurons of both the where it protrudes into the interior of the cell. sympathetic and parasympathetic systems. (Nicotinic receptors are also present at many nonautonomic nerve Excitation or Inhibition of the Effector Cell by Chang- endings—for example, at the neuromuscular junctions in ing Its Membrane Permeability. Because the receptor skeletal muscle, discussed in Chapter 7.) protein is an integral part of the cell membrane, a confor- An understanding of the two types of receptors is mational change in structure of the receptor protein often especially important because specific drugs are frequently opens or closes an ion channel through the interstices of used as medicine to stimulate or block one or the other of the protein molecule, thus altering the permeability of the the two types of receptors. cell membrane to various ions. For example, sodium and/ or calcium ion channels frequently become opened and Alpha and Beta Adrenergic Receptors allow rapid influx of the respective ions into the cell, usu- ally
