Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ions. For example, sodium and/ or calcium ion channels frequently become opened and Alpha and Beta Adrenergic Receptors allow rapid influx of the respective ions into the cell, usu- ally depolarizing the cell membrane and exciting the cell. Two major classes of adrenergic receptors also exist; they At other times, potassium channels are opened, allowing are called alpha receptors and beta receptors. There are potassium ions to diffuse out of the cell, which usually in- two major types of alpha receptors, alpha 1 and alpha 2, 767 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Table 61- 1 Adrenergic Receptors and Function organ, parasympathetic stimulation sometimes inhibits it, demonstrating that the two systems occasionally act recip- Alpha Receptor Beta Receptor rocally to each other. However, most organs are dominantly Vasoconstriction Vasodilation (β2) controlled by one or the other of the two systems. Iris dilation Cardioacceleration (β1) There is no generalization one can use to explain whether Intestinal relaxation Increased myocardial strength (β1) sympathetic or parasympathetic stimulation will cause Intestinal sphincter Intestinal relaxation (β2) excitation or inhibition of a particular organ. Therefore, to contraction Uterus relaxation (β2) understand sympathetic and parasympathetic function, one Pilomotor contraction Bronchodilation (β2) must learn all the separate functions of these two nervous Bladder sphincter Calorigenesis (β2) systems on each organ, as listed in Table 61- 2. Some of these contraction functions need to be clarified in still greater detail, as follows. Inhibits neurotransmitter Glycogenolysis (β2) release (α2) Lipolysis (β1) Effects of Sympathetic and Parasympathetic Stimula- Bladder wall relaxation (β2) tion on Specific Organs Thermogenesis (β3) Eyes. Two functions of the eyes are controlled by the autonomic nervous system: (1) the pupillary opening and which are linked to different G proteins. The beta recep- (2) the focus of the lens. Sympathetic stimulation contracts the meridional fibers tors are divided into beta , beta , and beta receptors 1 2 3 of the iris that dilate the pupil, whereas parasympathetic because certain chemicals affect only certain beta recep- stimulation contracts the circular muscle of the iris to con- tors. The beta receptors also use G proteins for signaling. strict the pupil. Norepinephrine and epinephrine, both of which are The parasympathetics that control the pupil are reflexly secreted into the blood by the adrenal medulla, have slightly stimulated when excess light enters the eyes, which is ex- different effects in exciting the alpha and beta
