Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


are reflexly secreted into the blood by the adrenal medulla, have slightly stimulated when excess light enters the eyes, which is ex- different effects in exciting the alpha and beta receptors. plained in Chapter 52; this reflex reduces the pupillary opening Norepinephrine excites mainly alpha receptors but excites and decreases the amount of light that strikes the retina. Con- the beta receptors to a lesser extent as well. Epinephrine versely, the sympathetics become stimulated during periods of excites both types of receptors approximately equally. excitement and increase pupillary opening at these times. Therefore, the relative effects of norepinephrine and epi- Focusing of the lens is controlled almost entirely by the par- nephrine on different effector organs are determined by the asympathetic nervous system. The lens is normally held in a flattened state by intrinsic elastic tension of its radial ligaments. types of receptors in the organs. If they are all beta recep- Parasympathetic excitation contracts the ciliary muscle, which tors, epinephrine will be the more effective excitant. is a ringlike body of smooth muscle fibers that encircles the Table 61- 1 lists the distribution of alpha and beta recep- outside ends of the lens radial ligaments. This contraction re- tors in some of the organs and systems controlled by the leases the tension on the ligaments and allows the lens to be- sympathetic nerves. Note that certain alpha functions are come more convex, causing the eye to focus on objects near at excitatory, whereas others are inhibitory. Likewise, certain hand. The detailed focusing mechanism is discussed in Chap- beta functions are excitatory and others are inhibitory. There- ters 50 and 52 in relation to function of the eyes. fore, alpha and beta receptors are not necessarily associated Glands of the Body. The nasal, lacrimal, salivary, and with excitation or inhibition but simply with the affinity of many gastrointestinal glands are strongly stimulated by the the hormone for the receptors in the given effector organ. parasympathetic nervous system, usually resulting in copi- As discussed later in the chapter, several sympathomi- ous quantities of watery secretion. The glands of the alimen- tary tract most strongly stimulated by the parasympathetics metic drugs have been developed that mimic the actions of are those of the upper tract, especially those of the mouth the endogenous catecholamines, norepinephrine and epi- and stomach. On the other hand, the glands of the small and nephrine. Some of these
