Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the upper tract, especially those of the mouth the endogenous catecholamines, norepinephrine and epi- and stomach. On the other hand, the glands of the small and nephrine. Some of these compounds selectively activate alpha large intestines are controlled principally by local factors in or beta adrenergic receptors. For example, a synthetic drug the intestinal tract and by the intestinal enteric nervous sys- chemically similar to epinephrine and norepinephrine, iso- tem; they are controlled much less by the autonomic nerves. prenaline (isoproterenol), has an extremely strong action on Sympathetic stimulation has a direct effect on most ali- beta receptors but essentially no action on alpha receptors. mentary gland cells to cause formation of a concentrated secretion that contains high percentages of enzymes and EXCITATORY AND INHIBITORY mucus. However, it also causes vasoconstriction of the ACTIONS OF SYMPATHETIC AND blood vessels that supply the glands and in this way some- PARASYMPATHETIC STIMULATION times reduces their rates of secretion. The sweat glands secrete large quantities of sweat when Table 61- 2 lists the effects on different visceral functions of the sympathetic nerves are stimulated, but no effect is the body caused by stimulating either the parasympathetic caused by stimulating the parasympathetic nerves. How- nerves or the sympathetic nerves. Note again that sympa- ever, the sympathetic fibers to most sweat glands are cho- thetic stimulation causes excitatory effects in some organs but linergic (except for a few adrenergic fibers to the palms and inhibitory effects in others. Likewise, parasympathetic stimu- soles), in contrast to almost all other sympathetic fibers, lation causes excitation in some organs but inhibition in oth- which are adrenergic. Furthermore, the sweat glands are ers. Also, when sympathetic stimulation excites a particular stimulated primarily by centers in the hypothalamus that 768 Table 61- 2 Autonomic Effects on Various Organs of the Body Organ Effect of Sympathetic Stimulation Effect of Parasympathetic Stimulation Eye Pupil Dilated Constricted Ciliary muscle Slight relaxation (far vision) Constricted (near vision) Glands Vasoconstriction and slight secretion Stimulation of copious secretion (containing many enzymes for enzyme- secreting glands) Nasal Lacrimal Parotid Submandibular Gastric Pancreatic Sweat glands Copious sweating (cholinergic) Sweating on palms of hands Apocrine glands Thick, odoriferous secretion None Blood vessels Most often constricted Most often little or no effect Heart Sinus node rhythm Increased rate Slowed rate Cardiac muscle Increased force of contraction Decreased force of contraction (especially of atria) Coronaries Dilated (β2); constricted (α) Dilated Lungs
