Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


no effect Heart Sinus node rhythm Increased rate Slowed rate Cardiac muscle Increased force of contraction Decreased force of contraction (especially of atria) Coronaries Dilated (β2); constricted (α) Dilated Lungs Bronchi Dilated Constricted Blood vessels Mildly constricted ? Dilated Gut Lumen Decreased peristalsis and tone Increased peristalsis and tone Sphincter Increased tone (most times) Relaxed (most times) Liver Glucose released Slight glycogen synthesis Gallbladder and bile ducts Relaxed Contracted Kidney Decreased urine output and None increased renin secretion Bladder Detrusor Relaxed (slight) Contracted Trigone Contracted Relaxed Penis Ejaculation Erection Systemic arterioles Abdominal viscera Constricted None Muscle Constricted (α- adrenergic) None Dilated (β2- adrenergic) Dilated (cholinergic) Skin Constricted None Blood Coagulation Increased None Glucose Increased None Lipids Increased None Basal metabolism Increased up to 100% None Adrenal medullary secretion Increased None Mental activity Increased None Piloerector muscles Contracted None Skeletal muscle Increased glycogenolysis None Increased strength Fat cells Lipolysis None 769 UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology are usually considered to be parasympathetic centers. change in long- term pressure unless the sympathetics also Therefore, sweating could be called a parasympathetic stimulate the kidneys to retain salt and water at the same function, even though it is controlled by nerve fibers that time. anatomically are distributed through the sympathetic nerv- Conversely, moderate parasympathetic stimulation via ous system. the vagal nerves decreases pumping by the heart but has The apocrine glands in the axillae secrete a thick, odor- virtually no effect on vascular peripheral resistance. There- iferous secretion as a result of sympathetic stimulation, but fore, the usual effect is a slight decrease in arterial pressure. they do not respond to parasympathetic stimulation. This However, very strong vagal parasympathetic stimulation secretion actually functions as a lubricant to allow easy can almost stop or occasionally stop the heart entirely for sliding motion of the inside surfaces under the shoulder a few seconds and cause temporary loss of all or most arte- joint. The apocrine glands, despite their close embryologi- rial pressure. cal relation to sweat glands, are activated by adrenergic fib- Effects of Sympathetic and Parasympathetic Stimula- ers rather than by cholinergic fibers and are also controlled tion on Other Functions of the Body. Because of the great by the sympathetic centers of the central nervous system importance of the sympathetic and parasympathetic con- rather than by the parasympathetic centers. trol systems, they are discussed many times in this text
