Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sympathetic centers of the central nervous system importance of the sympathetic and parasympathetic con- rather than by the parasympathetic centers. trol systems, they are discussed many times in this text in Intramural Nerve Plexus of the Gastrointestinal System. relation to multiple body functions. In general, most of the The gastrointestinal system has its own intrinsic set of nerves entodermal structures, such as the ducts of the liver, gall- known as the intramural plexus or the intestinal enteric nerv- bladder, ureter, urinary bladder, and bronchi, are inhibited ous system, located in the walls of the gut. Also, both para- by sympathetic stimulation but excited by parasympathetic sympathetic and sympathetic stimulation originating in the stimulation. Sympathetic stimulation also has multiple brain can affect gastrointestinal activity mainly by increasing metabolic effects such as release of glucose from the liver or decreasing specific actions in the gastrointestinal intramu- and an increase in blood glucose concentration, glycogen- ral plexus. Parasympathetic stimulation, in general, increases olysis in liver and muscle, skeletal muscle strength, basal the overall activity of the gastrointestinal tract by promoting metabolic rate, and mental activity. Finally, the sympathet- peristalsis and relaxing the sphincters, thus allowing rapid ics and parasympathetics are involved in execution of the propulsion of contents along the tract. This propulsive effect male and female sexual acts, as explained in Chapters 81 is associated with simultaneous increases in rates of secre- and 82. tion by many of the gastrointestinal glands, described earlier. Normal motility functions of the gastrointestinal tract FUNCTION OF THE ADRENAL MEDULLAE are not very dependent on sympathetic stimulation. How- ever, strong sympathetic stimulation inhibits peristalsis and Stimulation of the sympathetic nerves to the adrenal increases the tone of the sphincters. The net result is greatly medullae causes large quantities of epinephrine and nor- slowed propulsion of food through the tract and sometimes epinephrine to be released into the circulating blood, and decreased secretion as well—even to the extent of some- these two hormones in turn are carried in the blood to all times causing constipation. Heart. In general, sympathetic stimulation increases the tissues of the body. On average, about 80% of the secre- overall activity of the heart. This effect is accomplished by tion is epinephrine and 20% is norepinephrine, although increasing both the rate and force of heart contraction. the relative proportions can change considerably under Parasympathetic stimulation causes mainly opposite ef- different physiological conditions. fects—decreased heart
