Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is norepinephrine, although increasing both the rate and force of heart contraction. the relative proportions can change considerably under Parasympathetic stimulation causes mainly opposite ef- different physiological conditions. fects—decreased heart rate and strength of contraction. To The circulating epinephrine and norepinephrine have express these effects in another way, sympathetic stimula- almost the same effects on the different organs as the tion increases the effectiveness of the heart as a pump, as effects caused by direct sympathetic stimulation, except required during heavy exercise, whereas parasympathetic that the effects last 5 to 10 times as long because both of stimulation decreases heart pumping, allowing the heart to these hormones are removed from the blood slowly over rest between bouts of strenuous activity. Systemic Blood Vessels. Most systemic blood vessels, a period of 2 to 4 minutes. The circulating norepinephrine causes constriction of especially those of the abdominal viscera and skin of the most of the blood vessels of the body; it also increases limbs, are constricted by sympathetic stimulation. Para- sympathetic stimulation has almost no effects on most activity of the heart, inhibits the gastrointestinal tract, blood vessels. Under some conditions, the beta adrenergic dilates the pupils of the eyes, and so forth. function of the sympathetics causes vascular dilation in- Epinephrine causes almost the same effects as those stead of the usual vascular constriction; however, this di- caused by norepinephrine, but the effects differ in the fol- lation occurs rarely except after drugs have paralyzed the lowing respects. First, epinephrine, because of its greater sympathetic alpha vasoconstrictor effects which, in most effect in stimulating the beta receptors, has a greater effect blood vessels, are usually far dominant over the beta effects. on cardiac stimulation than does norepinephrine. Second, Effect of Sympathetic and Parasympathetic Stimulation epinephrine causes only weak constriction of the blood on Arterial Pressure. The arterial pressure is determined vessels in the muscles, in comparison with much stron- by two factors, propulsion of blood by the heart and resist- ger constriction caused by norepinephrine. Because the ance to flow of blood through the peripheral blood vessels. muscle vessels represent a major segment of the vessels of Sympathetic stimulation increases both propulsion by the heart and resistance to flow, which usually causes a marked the body, this difference is of special importance because acute increase in arterial pressure but often very little norepinephrine greatly increases the total peripheral 770 Chapter 61
