Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


causes a marked the body, this difference is of special importance because acute increase in arterial pressure but often very little norepinephrine greatly increases the total peripheral 770 Chapter 61 The Autonomic Nervous System and the Adrenal Medulla resistance and elevates arterial pressure, whereas epi- every few seconds suffices to maintain normal sympa- nephrine raises the arterial pressure to a lesser extent but thetic or parasympathetic effect, and full activation occurs increases the cardiac output more. when the nerve fibers discharge 10 to 20 times/sec. This A third difference between the actions of epineph- rate compares with full activation in the skeletal nervous rine and norepinephrine relates to their effects on tissue system at 50 to 500 or more impulses/sec. metabolism. Epinephrine has 5 to 10 times greater meta- bolic effect as does norepinephrine. Indeed, the epineph- SYMPATHETIC AND PARASYMPATHETIC rine secreted by the adrenal medullae can increase the “TONE” metabolic rate of the whole body as much as 100% above normal, in this way increasing the activity and excitability Normally, the sympathetic and parasympathetic systems of the body. It also increases the rates of other metabolic are continually active, and the basal rates of activity are activities, such as glycogenolysis in the liver and muscle known, respectively, as sympathetic tone and parasym- and glucose release into the blood. pathetic tone. The value of tone is that it allows a single In summary, stimulation of the adrenal medullae nervous system to both increase and decrease the activity causes release of the hormones epinephrine and norepi- of a stimulated organ. For example, sympathetic tone nor- nephrine, which together have almost the same effects mally keeps almost all the systemic arterioles constricted throughout the body as direct sympathetic stimulation, to about one- half their maximum diameter. By increas- except that the effects are more prolonged, lasting 2 to 4 ing the degree of sympathetic stimulation above normal, minutes after the stimulation is over. these vessels can be constricted even more; conversely, by decreasing the stimulation below normal, the arterioles The Adrenal Medullae Support Sympathetic Nerv- can be dilated. Thus, the sympathetic system can cause ous System Functions. Epinephrine and norepinephrine vasoconstriction or vasodilation by increasing or decreas- are almost always released by the adrenal medullae at the ing its activity, respectively. same time that the different organs are stimulated directly Another interesting example of tone is the background by generalized sympathetic activation.
