Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the adrenal medullae at the ing its activity, respectively. same time that the different organs are stimulated directly Another interesting example of tone is the background by generalized sympathetic activation. Therefore, the or- “tone” of the parasympathetics in the gastrointestinal gans are actually stimulated in two ways—directly by the tract. Surgical removal of the parasympathetic supply sympathetic nerves and indirectly by the adrenal medul- to most of the gut by cutting the vagus nerves can cause lary hormones. The two means of stimulation support serious and prolonged gastric and intestinal “atony” with each other and either can, in most cases, substitute for the resulting blockage of much of the normal gastrointesti- other. For example, destruction of the direct sympathetic nal propulsion and consequent serious constipation, thus pathways to the different body organs does not abrogate demonstrating that parasympathetic tone to the gut is sympathetic excitation of the organs because norepineph- normally very much required. This tone can be decreased rine and epinephrine are still released into the circulating by the brain, thereby inhibiting gastrointestinal motility, blood and indirectly cause stimulation. Likewise, loss of or it can be increased, thereby promoting increased gas- the two adrenal medullae usually has little effect on the trointestinal activity. operation of the sympathetic nervous system because the Tone Caused by Basal Secretion of Epinephrine and direct pathways can still perform almost all the necessary duties. Thus, the dual mechanism of sympathetic stimula- Norepinephrine by the Adrenal Medullae. The normal tion provides a safety factor, with one mechanism substi- resting rate of secretion by the adrenal medullae is about tuting for the other if it is missing. 0.2 μg/kg/min of epinephrine and about 0.05 μg/kg/min Another important value of the adrenal medullae of norepinephrine. These quantities are enough to main- is the capability of epinephrine and norepinephrine to tain the blood pressure almost normal even if all direct stimulate structures of the body that are not innervated sympathetic pathways to the cardiovascular system are by direct sympathetic fibers. For example, the metabolic removed. Therefore, it is obvious that much of the overall rate of almost every cell of the body is increased by these tone of the sympathetic nervous system results from basal hormones, especially by epinephrine, even though only a secretion of epinephrine and norepinephrine in addition small proportion of all the cells in the body are innervated to the tone resulting from direct sympathetic
