Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


epinephrine, even though only a secretion of epinephrine and norepinephrine in addition small proportion of all the cells in the body are innervated to the tone resulting from direct sympathetic stimulation. directly by sympathetic fibers. Effect of Loss of Sympathetic or Parasympathetic RELATION OF STIMULUS RATE TO Tone After Denervation. Immediately after a sympa- SYMPATHETIC AND PARASYMPATHETIC thetic or parasympathetic nerve is cut, the innervated EFFECTS organ loses its sympathetic or parasympathetic tone. In many blood vessels, for example, cutting the sympa- A special difference between the autonomic nervous sys- thetic nerves results in substantial vasodilation within 5 tem and the skeletal nervous system is that only a low to 30 seconds. However, over minutes, hours, days, or frequency of stimulation is required for full activation of weeks, intrinsic tone in the smooth muscle of the vessels autonomic effectors. In general, only one nerve impulse increases—that is, increased tone caused by increased 771 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology 400 Mechanism of Denervation Supersensitivity. The cause of denervation supersensitivity is only partially known. Part of the answer is that the number of receptors in the post- Effect of same synaptic membranes of the effector cells increases—some- Normal 200 test dose of times many times—when norepinephrine or acetylcholine Stellate ganglionectomy norepinephrine is no longer released at the synapses, a process called “up- regulation” of the receptors. Therefore, when a dose of the Effect of test dose of norepinephrine hormone is now injected into the circulating blood, the ef- 0 fector reaction is vastly enhanced. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Autonomic Reflexes WWeeeekkss Many visceral functions of the body are regulated by au- Figure 61-5 . Effect of sympathectomy on blood flow in the arm and effect of a test dose of norepinephrine before and after sympathecto- tonomic reflexes. Throughout this text, the functions of my, showing supersensitization of the vasculature to norepinephrine. these reflexes are discussed in relation to individual organ systems; to illustrate their importance, a few are presented here briefly. smooth muscle contractile force that is not the result of Cardiovascular Autonomic Reflexes. Several reflexes in sympathetic stimulation but of chemical adaptations in the cardiovascular system help control the arterial blood the smooth muscle fibers, including increased sensitiv- pressure and heart rate. One of these reflexes is the barore- ity to the effects of circulating catecholamines secreted ceptor reflex, which is
