Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the smooth muscle fibers, including increased sensitiv- pressure and heart rate. One of these reflexes is the barore- ity to the effects of circulating catecholamines secreted ceptor reflex, which is described in Chapter 18 along with other cardiovascular reflexes. Briefly, stretch receptors by the adrenal medullae. This intrinsic tone and increased called baroreceptors are located in the walls of several ma- sensitivity to circulating catecholamines eventually re- jor arteries, including especially the internal carotid arter- store almost normal vasoconstriction. ies and the arch of the aorta. When these become stretched Essentially the same effects occur in most other effec- by high pressure, signals are transmitted to the brain stem, tor organs whenever sympathetic or parasympathetic where they inhibit the sympathetic impulses to the heart tone is lost. That is, intrinsic compensation soon develops and blood vessels and excite the parasympathetics; this al- to return the function of the organ almost to its normal lows the arterial pressure to fall back toward normal. basal level. However, in the parasympathetic system, the Gastrointestinal Autonomic Reflexes. The uppermost compensation sometimes requires many months. For part of the gastrointestinal tract and the rectum are con- example, loss of parasympathetic tone to the heart after trolled principally by autonomic reflexes. For example, cardiac vagotomy increases the heart rate to 160 beats/ the smell of appetizing food or the presence of food in the mouth initiates signals from the nose and mouth to the min in a dog, and this rate will still be partially elevated vagal, glossopharyngeal, and salivatory nuclei of the brain 6 months later. Likewise, loss of parasympathetic tone to stem. These nuclei in turn transmit signals through the par- the gastrointestinal system has long lasting effects on the asympathetic nerves to the secretory glands of the mouth gut. and stomach, causing secretion of digestive juices some- times even before food enters the mouth. “Supersensitivity” to Norepinephrine and Acetylcho- When fecal matter fills the rectum at the other end of line After Denervation the alimentary canal, sensory impulses initiated by stretch- During the first week or so after a sympathetic or parasym- ing the rectum are sent to the sacral portion of the spinal pathetic nerve is destroyed, the innervated organ becomes cord, and a reflex signal is transmitted back through the sa- more sensitive to injected norepinephrine or acetylcholine, cral parasympathetics to the distal parts of the colon; these respectively. This effect
