Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and a reflex signal is transmitted back through the sa- more sensitive to injected norepinephrine or acetylcholine, cral parasympathetics to the distal parts of the colon; these respectively. This effect is demonstrated in Figure 61- 5, signals result in strong peristaltic contractions that cause which shows that blood flow in the forearm before removal defecation. of the sympathetics is about 200 ml/min; a test dose of nor- Other Autonomic Reflexes. Emptying of the urinary epinephrine causes only a slight depression in flow lasting bladder is controlled in the same way as emptying of the a minute or so. Then the stellate ganglion is removed, and rectum; stretching of the bladder sends impulses to the normal sympathetic tone is lost. At first, the blood flow sacral cord, which in turn causes reflex contraction of the rises markedly because of the lost vascular tone, but over a bladder and relaxation of the urinary sphincters, thereby period of days to weeks the blood flow returns much of the promoting micturition. way back toward normal because of a progressive increase Also important are the sexual reflexes, which are initi- in the intrinsic tone of the vascular musculature itself, thus ated both by psychic stimuli from the brain and by stimuli partially compensating for the loss of sympathetic tone. from the sexual organs. Impulses from these sources con- Then, another test dose of norepinephrine is administered, verge on the sacral cord and, in the male, result first in erec- and the blood flow decreases much more than before, dem- tion, mainly a parasympathetic function, and then ejacula- onstrating that the blood vessels have become about two to tion, partially a sympathetic function. four times as responsive to norepinephrine as previously. Other autonomic control functions include reflex contri- This phenomenon is called denervation supersensitivity. It butions to the regulation of pancreatic secretion, gallbladder occurs in both sympathetic and parasympathetic organs emptying, kidney excretion of urine, sweating, blood glu- but to a far greater extent in some organs than in others, cose concentration, and many other visceral functions, all of occasionally increasing the response more than 10- fold. which are discussed in detail at other points in this text. 772 )nim/lm( mra ni wolf doolB Chapter 61 The Autonomic Nervous System and the Adrenal Medulla SELECTIVE STIMULATION OF “ALARM” OR “STRESS” RESPONSE OF THE TARGET ORGANS BY SYMPATHETIC SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM AND PARASYMPATHETIC SYSTEMS OR When large
