Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


The Autonomic Nervous System and the Adrenal Medulla SELECTIVE STIMULATION OF “ALARM” OR “STRESS” RESPONSE OF THE TARGET ORGANS BY SYMPATHETIC SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM AND PARASYMPATHETIC SYSTEMS OR When large portions of the sympathetic nervous system “MASS DISCHARGE” discharge at the same time—that is, a mass discharge— this action increases the ability of the body to perform The Sympathetic System Sometimes Responds by vigorous muscle activity in many ways, as summarized in Mass Discharge. In some cases, almost all portions of the following list: the sympathetic nervous system discharge simultaneously 1. Increased arterial pressure as a complete unit, a phenomenon called mass discharge. 2. Increased blood flow to active muscles concurrent This frequently occurs when the hypothalamus is acti- with decreased blood flow to organs such as the vated by fright or severe pain. The result is a widespread gastrointestinal tract and the kidneys that are not reaction throughout the body called the alarm or stress needed for rapid motor activity response, which is discussed shortly. 3. Increased rates of cellular metabolism throughout At other times, activation occurs in isolated portions the body of the sympathetic nervous system. Important examples 4. Increased blood glucose concentration are the following: 5. Increased glycolysis in the liver and in muscle 1. During the process of heat regulation, the sympa- 6. Increased muscle strength thetics control sweating and blood flow in the skin 7. Increased mental activity without affecting other organs innervated by the 8. Increased rate of blood coagulation sympathetics. The sum of these effects permits a person to perform 2. Many “local reflexes” involving sensory afferent fib- far more strenuous physical activity than would otherwise ers travel centrally in the peripheral nerves to the be possible. Because either mental or physical stress can sympathetic ganglia and spinal cord and cause high- excite the sympathetic system, it is frequently said that ly localized reflex responses. For example, heating the purpose of the sympathetic system is to provide extra a skin area causes local vasodilation and enhanced activation of the body in states of stress, which is called local sweating, whereas cooling causes opposite ef- the sympathetic stress response. fects. The sympathetic system is especially strongly activated 3. Many of the sympathetic reflexes that control gas- in many emotional states. For example, in the state of rage, trointestinal functions operate by way of nerve which is elicited to a great extent by stimulating the
