Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


control gas- in many emotional states. For example, in the state of rage, trointestinal functions operate by way of nerve which is elicited to a great extent by stimulating the hypo- pathways that do not even enter the spinal cord, thalamus, signals are transmitted downward through the merely passing from the gut mainly to the para- reticular formation of the brain stem and into the spinal vertebral ganglia, and then back to the gut through cord to cause massive sympathetic discharge; most afore- sympathetic nerves to control motor or secretory mentioned sympathetic events ensue immediately. This activity. is called the sympathetic alarm reaction. It is also called The Parasympathetic System Usually Causes Spe- the fight- or- flight reaction because an animal in this state cific Localized Responses. Control functions by the decides almost instantly whether to stand and fight or parasympathetic system are often highly specific. For to run. In either event, the sympathetic alarm reaction example, parasympathetic cardiovascular reflexes usually makes the animal’s subsequent activities vigorous. act on the heart only to increase or decrease its rate of MEDULLARY, PONTINE, AND beating with little direct effect on its force of contraction. MESENCEPHALIC CONTROL OF THE Likewise, other parasympathetic reflexes cause secretion AUTONOMIC NERVOUS SYSTEM mainly by the mouth glands, and in other cases, secre- tion is mainly by the stomach glands. Finally, the rectal Many neuronal areas in the brain stem reticular sub- emptying reflex does not affect other parts of the bowel stance and along the course of the tractus solitarius of the to a major extent. medulla, pons, and mesencephalon, as well as in many Yet there is often association between closely allied special nuclei (Figure 61- 6), control different autonomic parasympathetic functions. For example, although functions, such as arterial pressure, heart rate, glandular salivary secretion can occur independently of gastric secretion in the gastrointestinal tract, gastrointestinal secretion, these two often occur together, and pancre- peristalsis, and degree of contraction of the urinary blad- atic secretion frequently occurs at the same time. Also, der. Control of each of these is discussed at appropriate the rectal emptying reflex often initiates a urinary points in this text. Some of the most important factors bladder emptying reflex, resulting in simultaneous controlled in the brain stem are arterial pressure, heart emptying of both the bladder and the rectum. Con- rate, and respiratory rate. Indeed, transection of the brain versely, the bladder
