Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


controlled in the brain stem are arterial pressure, heart emptying of both the bladder and the rectum. Con- rate, and respiratory rate. Indeed, transection of the brain versely, the bladder emptying reflex can help initiate stem above the midpontine level allows basal control of rectal emptying. arterial pressure to continue as before but prevents its 773 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Pharmacology of the Autonomic Nervous System Drugs That Act on Adrenergic Effector Organs— Parasympathetic Heat control Sympathomimetic Drugs From the foregoing discussion, it is obvious that intravenous Water Sympathetic injection of norepinephrine causes essentially the same effects balance throughout the body as sympathetic stimulation. Therefore, Feeding norepinephrine is called a sympathomimetic or adrenergic control drug. Epinephrine and methoxamine are also sympathomi- Urinary bladder control metic drugs, and there are many others. They differ from one Hypothalamus Pneumotaxic center another in the degree to which they stimulate different recep- Pituitary gland tors in sympathetic effector organs and in their duration of ac- Cardiac acceleration Mammillary body and vasoconstriction tion. Norepinephrine and epinephrine have actions as short as Cardiac slowing 1 to 2 minutes, whereas the actions of some other commonly Respiratory center used sympathomimetic drugs last for 30 minutes to 2 hours. Important drugs that stimulate specific adrenergic re- ceptors are phenylephrine (alpha receptors), isoproterenol (beta receptors), and albuterol (only beta receptors). 2 Drugs That Cause Release of Norepinephrine From Nerve Figure 61- 6. Autonomic control areas in the brain stem and hypo- Endings. Certain drugs have an indirect sympathomimetic thalamus. action instead of directly exciting adrenergic effector organs. These drugs include ephedrine, tyramine, and amphetamine. modulation by higher nervous centers such as the hypo- Their effect is to cause release of norepinephrine from its stor- thalamus. Conversely, transection immediately below the age vesicles in the sympathetic nerve endings. The released medulla causes the arterial pressure to fall to less than norepinephrine in turn causes the sympathetic effects. one- half normal. Drugs That Block Adrenergic Activity. Adrenergic ac- Closely associated with the cardiovascular regulatory tivity can be blocked at several points in the stimulatory centers in the brain stem are the medullary and pontine process, as follows: centers for regulation of respiration, which are discussed 1. The synthesis and storage of norepinephrine in the in Chapter 42. Although regulation of respiration is not sympathetic nerve endings can be prevented. The best- known drug
