Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


are discussed 1. The synthesis and storage of norepinephrine in the in Chapter 42. Although regulation of respiration is not sympathetic nerve endings can be prevented. The best- known drug that causes this effect is reserpine. considered to be an autonomic function, it is one of the 2. Release of norepinephrine from the sympathetic end- involuntary functions of the body. ings can be blocked. This effect can be caused by gua- Control of Brain Stem Autonomic Centers by High- nethidine. er Areas. Signals from the hypothalamus and even 3. The sympathetic alpha receptors can be blocked. Two from the cerebrum can affect activities of almost all drugs that block both alpha 1 and alpha 2 adrenergic re- ceptors are phenoxybenzamine and phentolamine. Se- the brain stem autonomic control centers. For exam- lective alpha adrenergic blockers include prazosin and ple, stimulation in appropriate areas—mainly of the 1 terazosin, whereas yohimbine blocks alpha receptors. posterior hypothalamus—can activate the medullary 2 4. The sympathetic beta receptors can be blocked. A drug cardiovascular control centers strongly enough to in- that blocks both beta and beta receptors is proprano- 1 2 crease arterial pressure to more than twice normal. lol. Drugs that block mainly beta receptors are atenolol, 1 Likewise, other hypothalamic centers control body nebivolol, and metoprolol. temperature, increase or decrease salivation and gas- 5. Sympathetic activity can be blocked by drugs that block trointestinal activity, and cause bladder emptying. To transmission of nerve impulses through the autonomic some extent, the autonomic centers in the brain stem ganglia. They are discussed in a later section, but drugs act as relay stations for control activities initiated at that block both sympathetic and parasympathetic trans- higher levels of the brain, especially in the hypothala- mission through the ganglia include hexamethonium and pentolinium. mus. In Chapters 59 and 60, we pointed out also that many Drugs That Act on Cholinergic Effector Organs of our behavioral responses are mediated through the Parasympathomimetic Drugs (Cholinergic Drugs). Ace- following: (1) the hypothalamus, (2) the reticular areas tylcholine injected intravenously usually does not cause of the brain stem, and (3) the autonomic nervous system. exactly the same effects throughout the body as parasym- Indeed, some higher areas of the brain can alter function pathetic stimulation because most of the acetylcholine is of the whole autonomic nervous system or of portions destroyed by cholinesterase in the blood and body fluids of it
