Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


alter function pathetic stimulation because most of the acetylcholine is of the whole autonomic nervous system or of portions destroyed by cholinesterase in the blood and body fluids of it strongly enough to cause severe autonomic- induced before it can reach all the effector organs. Yet, several other disease such as peptic ulcer of the stomach or duode- drugs that are not so rapidly destroyed can produce typical num, constipation, heart palpitation, or even heart widespread parasympathetic effects; these are called para- attack. sympathomimetic drugs. 774 Chapter 61 The Autonomic Nervous System and the Adrenal Medulla Two commonly used parasympathomimetic drugs are to the postganglionic neurons include tetraethyl ammo- pilocarpine and methacholine. They act directly on the nium ion, hexamethonium ion, and pentolinium. These muscarinic type of cholinergic receptors. drugs block acetylcholine stimulation of the postganglionic Drugs That Have a Parasympathetic Potentiating Ef- neurons in both the sympathetic and the parasympathetic fect—Anticholinesterase Drugs. Some drugs do not have systems simultaneously. They are often used for blocking a direct effect on parasympathetic effector organs but do sympathetic activity but seldom for blocking parasympa- potentiate the effects of the naturally secreted acetylcholine thetic activity because their effects of sympathetic block- at the parasympathetic endings. They are the same drugs as ade usually far overshadow the effects of parasympathetic those discussed in Chapter 7 that potentiate the effect of blockade. The ganglionic blocking drugs especially can acetylcholine at the neuromuscular junction. These drugs reduce the arterial pressure rapidly, but they are not very include neostigmine, pyridostigmine, and ambenonium. useful clinically because their effects are difficult to control. They inhibit acetylcholinesterase, thus preventing rapid de- struction of the acetylcholine liberated at parasympathetic nerve endings. As a consequence, the quantity of acetyl- Bibliography choline increases with successive stimuli, and the degree of Alba BK, Castellani JW, Charkoudian N: Cold-i nduced cutaneous vaso- action also increases. constriction in humans: Function, dysfunction and the distinctly coun- Drugs That Block Cholinergic Activity at Effector Or- terproductive. Exp Physiol 104:1202, 2019. gans—Antimuscarinic Drugs. Atropine and similar drugs, Cannon WB: Organization for physiological homeostasis. Physiol Rev such as homatropine and scopolamine, block the action of 9:399, 1929. acetylcholine on the muscarinic type of cholinergic effector Cheshire WP Jr, Goldstein DS: The physical examination as a window organs. These drugs do not affect the nicotinic action of into autonomic disorders. Clin Auton Res 28:23, 2018. acetylcholine on the postganglionic neurons or
