Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


communication in thetic postganglionic neurons at the same time, resulting in health and disease. Physiol Rev 98:2287, 2018. strong sympathetic vasoconstriction in the abdominal or- Tank AW, Lee Wong D: Peripheral and central effects of circulating gans and limbs but at the same time resulting in parasym- catecholamines. Compr Physiol 5:1, 2015. pathetic effects such as increased gastrointestinal activity. Wehrwein EA, Orer HS, Barman SM: Overview of the anatomy, physi- Ganglionic Blocking Drugs. Drugs that block impulse ology, and pharmacology of the autonomic nervous system. Com- transmission from the autonomic preganglionic neurons pr Physiol 6:1239, 2016. 775 UNIT XI CHAPTER 6 2 Cerebral Blood Flow, Cerebrospinal Fluid, and Brain Metabolism Thus far, we have discussed the function of the brain as non- neuronal cells that appear to couple neuronal activity if it were independent of its blood flow, its metabolism, with local blood flow regulation (see Figure 62- 1). and its fluids. However, this is far from true because Excesses of CO or H+ Concentration Increase abnormalities of any of these aspects can profoundly 2 Cerebral Blood Flow. An increase in CO concentration affect brain function. For example, total cessation of 2 in the arterial blood perfusing the brain greatly increases blood flow to the brain causes unconsciousness within cerebral blood flow. This is demonstrated in Figure 62- 2, 5 to 10 seconds because lack of oxygen (O ) delivery 2 which shows that a 70% increase in arterial partial pres- to the brain cells nearly shuts down metabolism in sure of CO (Pco ) approximately doubles cerebral blood these cells. Also, on a longer time scale, abnormalities 2 2 flow. of the cerebrospinal fluid, either its composition or its CO is believed to increase cerebral blood flow by com- fluid pressure, can have equally severe effects on brain 2 bining first with water in the body fluids to form carbonic function. acid, with subsequent dissociation of this acid to form H+. CEREBRAL BLOOD FLOW Vascular smooth Virchow-Robin muscle Pial artery Blood flow of the brain is supplied by four large arter- space Pia mater ies—two carotid and two vertebral arteries—that merge to form the circle of Willis at the base of the brain. The Penetrating arteries arising from the circle of Willis travel along the arteriole brain surface and give rise to pial arteries, which branch out into smaller vessels called penetrating arteries and arterioles (Figure 62- 1). The
