Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


circle of Willis travel along the arteriole brain surface and give rise to pial arteries, which branch out into smaller vessels called penetrating arteries and arterioles (Figure 62- 1). The penetrating vessels are sepa- rated slightly from the brain tissue by an extension of the Foot processes subarachnoid space called the Virchow- Robin space. The penetrating vessels dive down into the brain tissue, giving Excitatory neuron rise to intracerebral arterioles, which eventually branch Glutamate into capillaries where exchange among the blood and the tissues of O , nutrients, carbon dioxide (CO ), and 2 2 metabolites occurs. REGULATION OF CEREBRAL BLOOD FLOW MV ea ts ao ba oc lit ti ev se Normal blood flow through the brain of the adult person averages 50 to 65 ml/100 g of brain tissue/min. For the Capillary Ca2+ entire brain, this amounts to 750 to 900 ml/min. Thus, the Pericyte brain constitutes only about 2% of the body weight but receives 15% of the resting cardiac output. Endothelial Gap junction Astrocyte As in most other tissues, cerebral blood flow is highly cell related to the tissue metabolism. Several metabolic fac- Figure 62- 1. Architecture of cerebral blood vessels and potential tors are believed to contribute to cerebral blood flow mechanism for blood flow regulation by astrocytes. The pial arteries regulation: (1) CO 2 concentration; (2) hydrogen ion lie on the glia limitans, and the penetrating arteries are surrounded (H+) concentration; (3) O 2 concentration; and (4) sub- by astrocyte foot processes. Note that the astrocytes also have fine stances released from astrocytes, which are specialized, processes that are closely associated with synapses. 777 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology 2.0 protective response against diminished cerebral neuro- nal activity and, therefore, against derangement of mental 1.6 capability. Substances Released From Astrocytes Regulate Cer- 1.2 ebral Blood Flow. Increasing evidence suggests that the Normal close coupling between neuronal activity and cerebral 0.8 blood flow is due, in part, to substances released from as- trocytes (also called astroglial cells) that surround blood vessels of the central nervous system. Astrocytes are star- 0.4 shaped non- neuronal cells that support and protect neu- 0 20 40 60 80 100 rons, as well as provide nutrition. They have numerous Arterial Pco 2 projections that make contact with neurons and the sur- Figure 62- 2. Relationship between arterial Pco2 and cerebral blood rounding blood
