Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


as provide nutrition. They have numerous Arterial Pco 2 projections that make contact with neurons and the sur- Figure 62- 2. Relationship between arterial Pco2 and cerebral blood rounding blood vessels, providing a potential mechanism flow. for neurovascular communication. Gray matter astrocytes (protoplasmic astrocytes) extend fine processes that cover most synapses and large foot processes that are closely ap- The H+ then causes vasodilation of the cerebral vessels, posed to the vascular wall (see Figure 62- 1). with the dilation being almost directly proportional to the Experimental studies have shown that electrical stimula- increase in H+ concentration up to a blood flow limit of tion of excitatory glutaminergic neurons leads to increased about twice normal. intracellular calcium ion concentration in astrocyte foot Other substances that increase the acidity of the brain processes and vasodilation of nearby arterioles. Additional tissue and therefore increase H+ concentration will like- studies have suggested that the vasodilation is mediated by wise increase cerebral blood flow. Such substances include several vasoactive metabolites released from astrocytes. Al- lactic acid, pyruvic acid, and any other acidic material though the precise mediators are still unclear, nitric oxide, metabolites of arachidonic acid, potassium ions, adenosine, formed by tissue metabolism. and other substances generated by astrocytes in response Importance of Cerebral Blood Flow Control by CO to stimulation of adjacent excitatory neurons have all been 2 and H+. Increased H+ concentration greatly depresses suggested to be important in mediating local vasodilation. Measurement of Cerebral Blood Flow and Effect of neuronal activity. Therefore, it is fortunate that increased H+ concentration also elicits increased blood flow, which Brain Activity on Flow. A method has been developed in turn carries H+, CO , and other acid-f orming substanc- to record blood flow in as many as 256 isolated segments 2 of the human cerebral cortex simultaneously. To record es away from the brain tissues. Loss of CO removes car- 2 blood flow in these segments, a radioactive substance, such bonic acid from the tissues; this action, along with removal as radioactive xenon (Xe), is injected into the carotid ar- of other acids, reduces the H+ concentration back toward tery; then the radioactivity of each segment of the cortex normal. Thus, this mechanism helps maintain a constant is recorded as the radioactive substance passes through the H+ concentration in the cerebral fluids and thereby helps brain tissue. For this purpose, 256 small radioactive scintil- to
