Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a constant is recorded as the radioactive substance passes through the H+ concentration in the cerebral fluids and thereby helps brain tissue. For this purpose, 256 small radioactive scintil- to maintain a normal, constant level of neuronal activity. lation detectors are pressed against the surface of the cor- Oxygen Deficiency as a Regulator of Cerebral Blood tex. The rapidity of rise and decay of radioactivity in each tissue segment is a direct measure of the rate of blood flow Flow. Except during periods of intense brain activity, the through that segment. rate of O utilization by the brain tissue remains within 2 Using this technique, it has become clear that blood flow narrow limits—almost exactly 3.5 (±0.2) ml of O /100 g of 2 in each individual segment of the brain changes as much brain tissue/min. If brain blood flow becomes insufficient as 100% to 150% within seconds in response to changes in to supply adequate O 2, the O 2 deficiency almost immedi- local neuronal activity. For example, simply clenching the ately causes vasodilation, returning the brain blood flow hand into a fist causes an immediate increase in blood flow and transport of O to the cerebral tissues to near normal. in the motor cortex of the opposite side of the brain. Read- 2 Thus, this local blood flow regulatory mechanism is al- ing a book increases the blood flow, especially in the visual most exactly the same in the brain as in coronary blood areas of the occipital cortex and in the language perception areas of the temporal cortex. This measuring procedure can vessels, in skeletal muscle, and in most other circulatory also be used for localizing the origin of epileptic attacks be- areas of the body. cause local brain blood flow increases acutely and markedly Experiments have shown that a decrease in cerebral at the focal point of each attack. tissue partial pressure of O (Po ) below about 30 mm Hg 2 2 Figure 62- 3 demonstrates the effect of local neuronal (the normal value is 35–40 mm Hg) immediately begins activity on cerebral blood flow by showing a typical in- to increase cerebral blood flow. This is fortuitous because crease in occipital blood flow recorded in a cat’s brain when brain function becomes deranged at lower values of Po 2, intense light is shined into its eyes for one- half minute. especially at Po levels
