Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in a cat’s brain when brain function becomes deranged at lower values of Po 2, intense light is shined into its eyes for one- half minute. especially at Po levels below 20 mm Hg. Even coma can Blood flow and neural activity in different regions of the 2 result at these low levels. Thus, the O mechanism for brain can also be assessed indirectly by functional magnetic 2 local regulation of cerebral blood flow is an important resonance imaging (fMRI). This method is based on the 778 )lamron ×( wolf doolb larbereC Chapter 62 Cerebral Blood Flow, Cerebrospinal Fluid, and Brain Metabolism Normal 140 autoregulatory range 100 Normal 130 120 Light shining 75 110 in eyes Chronic 100 hypertension 50 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 Minutes Figure 62- 3. Increase in blood flow to the occipital regions of a cat’s 25 brain when light is shined into its eyes. observation that oxygen- rich hemoglobin (oxyhemoglobin) 0 0 50 100 150 200 250 and oxygen- poor hemoglobin (deoxyhemoglobin) in the Mean Arterial Pressure (mmHg) blood behave differently in a magnetic field. Deoxyhemo- globin is a paramagnetic molecule (i.e., attracted by an ex- Figure 62- 4. Autoregulation of cerebral blood flow during acute changes in mean arterial pressure in subjects with normotension ternally applied magnetic field), whereas oxyhemoglobin is (blue curve) and chronic hypertension (red curve). The dashed vertical diamagnetic (i.e., repelled by a magnetic field). The pres- lines indicate the approximate normal autoregulatory range. ence of deoxyhemoglobin in a blood vessel causes a meas- urable difference of the magnetic resonance (MR) proton able to severe ischemia if blood pressure is reduced too rap- signal of the vessel and its surrounding tissue. The blood ox- idly below the range of autoregulation. If arterial pressure ygen level–dependent (BOLD) signals obtained from fMRI, falls below the limits of autoregulation, cerebral blood flow however, depend on the total amount of deoxyhemoglobin becomes severely decreased. in the specific three- dimensional space (voxel) of brain tis- Impairment of autoregulation makes cerebral blood sue being assessed. This, in turn, is influenced by the rate of flow much more dependent on arterial pressure. For ex- blood flow, volume of blood, and rate of O consumption 2 ample, in preeclampsia, a disorder of pregnancy associated in the specific voxel of brain tissue. For this reason, BOLD with vascular dysfunction and hypertension, cerebral blood fMRI provides only an indirect estimate of regional
