Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


disorder of pregnancy associated in the specific voxel of brain tissue. For this reason, BOLD with vascular dysfunction and hypertension, cerebral blood fMRI provides only an indirect estimate of regional blood flow autoregulation may be impaired, leading to pressure- flow, although it can also be used to produce maps showing dependent increases in cerebral blood flow, disruption of which parts of the brain are activated in a particular mental the vascular endothelium, edema, and seizures in some process. cases. In old age, atherosclerosis and various brain disor- An alternative MRI method called arterial spin labeling ders, cerebral blood flow autoregulation may also be im- (ASL) can be used to provide a more quantitative assess- paired, increasing the risk for blood pressure–dependent ment of regional blood flow. ASL works by manipulat- injury of the brain. ing the MR signal of arterial blood before it is delivered Role of the Sympathetic Nervous System in Control- to different areas of the brain. By subtracting two images ling Cerebral Blood Flow. The cerebral circulatory system in which the arterial blood is manipulated differently, the has strong sympathetic innervation that passes upward static proton signal in the rest of the tissue subtracts out, from the superior cervical sympathetic ganglia in the neck leaving only the signal arising from the delivered arterial and then into the brain along with the cerebral arteries. blood. ASL and BOLD imaging can be used together simul- This innervation supplies both the large brain arteries and taneously to provide a probe of regional brain blood flow the arteries that penetrate into the substance of the brain. and neuronal function. Cerebral Blood Flow Autoregulation Protects the Brain However, transection of the sympathetic nerves or mild to From Changes in Arterial Pressure. During normal daily moderate stimulation of them usually causes little change in cerebral blood flow because the blood flow autoregula- activities, arterial pressure can fluctuate widely, rising to tion mechanism can override the nervous effects. high levels during states of excitement or strenuous activ- When mean arterial pressure rises acutely to an excep- ity and falling to low levels during sleep. However, cerebral tionally high level, such as during strenuous exercise or blood flow is “autoregulated” extremely well between arte- during other states of excessive circulatory activity, the sym- rial pressure limits of approximately 60 and 150 mm Hg pathetic nervous system normally constricts the large and (Figure 62- 4). That
