Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


other states of excessive circulatory activity, the sym- rial pressure limits of approximately 60 and 150 mm Hg pathetic nervous system normally constricts the large and (Figure 62- 4). That is, acute reductions in mean arterial intermediate- sized brain arteries enough to prevent the high pressure to as low as 60 mm Hg or increases to as high as pressure from reaching the smaller brain blood vessels. This 150 mm Hg do not cause major changes in cerebral blood mechanism is important in preventing vascular hemorrhag- flow in people who have normal autoregulation. es into the brain—that is, for preventing “cerebral stroke.” In people who have chronic hypertension there is hy- pertrophic remodeling of their cerebral blood vessels, as well as blood vessels in other organs (discussed in Chapter CEREBRAL MICROCIRCULATION 17), and the autoregulatory curve is shifted to higher blood pressures. This resetting of cerebral blood flow autoregula- As is true for almost all other tissues of the body, the num- tion partially protects the brain from the damaging effects ber of blood capillaries in the brain is greatest where the of the high blood pressure. but also makes the brain vulner- metabolic needs are greatest. The overall metabolic rate 779 )lamron %( wolf doolB )nim/g 001/lm( wolF doolB larbereC UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology of the brain gray matter where the neuronal cell bodies lie Lateral ventricles is about four times as great as that of white matter; cor- Arachnoidal villi respondingly, the number of capillaries and rate of blood Foramen flow are also about four times as great in the gray matter. of Monro An important structural characteristic of the brain cap- illaries is that most of them are much less “leaky” than the blood capillaries in almost any other tissue of the body. One reason for this phenomenon is that the capillaries are supported on all sides by “glial feet,” which are small pro- jections from the surrounding glial cells (e.g., astroglial Tentorium Third ventricle cells) that abut against all surfaces of the capillaries and cerebelli provide physical support to prevent overstretching of the Aqueduct of Sylvius Fourth capillaries in case of high capillary blood pressure. ventricle The walls of the small arterioles leading to the brain Foramen of Magendie capillaries become greatly thickened in people in whom high blood pressure develops, and these arterioles remain significantly constricted all
