Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the small arterioles leading to the brain Foramen of Magendie capillaries become greatly thickened in people in whom high blood pressure develops, and these arterioles remain significantly constricted all the time to prevent transmis- Figure 62- 5. The arrows show the pathway of cerebrospinal fluid sion of the high pressure to the capillaries. We shall see flow from the choroid plexuses in the lateral ventricles to the arach- later in the chapter that whenever these systems for pro- noidal villi protruding into the dural sinuses. tecting against transudation of fluid into the brain break down, serious brain edema ensues, which can lead rapidly As discussed in Chapter 60, small infarcts or micro- to coma and death. bleeds in small blood vessels may cause “silent strokes” with no readily apparent symptoms other than subtle cognitive Cerebral “Stroke” Occurs When Cerebral Blood decline. These small areas where infarction has occurred, Vessels Are Blocked or Ruptured however, may be detectable using magnetic resonance im- aging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT) imaging. It is Almost all elderly people have blockage of some small ar- estimated that approximately 25% of people greater than 80 teries in the brain, and up to 10% eventually have enough years of age have had had one or more silent brain infarcts. blockage to cause serious disturbance of brain function, a condition called a “stroke.” Many strokes are caused by arteriosclerotic plaques that occur in one or more of the feeder arteries to the brain. The CEREBROSPINAL FLUID SYSTEM plaques can activate the clotting mechanism of the blood, causing a blood clot to occur and block blood flow in the The entire cerebral cavity enclosing the brain and spinal cord artery, thereby leading to acute loss of brain function in a has a capacity of about 1600 to 1700 ml. About 150 ml of this localized area. capacity is occupied by cerebrospinal fluid and the remainder In about 25% of people in whom strokes develop, high by the brain and cord. This fluid, as shown in Figure 62- 5, is blood pressure makes one of the blood vessels burst; hem- present in the ventricles of the brain, in the cisterns around the orrhage then occurs, compressing the local brain tissue and outside of the brain, and in the subarachnoid space around further compromising its functions. The neurological ef- both the brain and the spinal cord. All these chambers are
