Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tissue and outside of the brain, and in the subarachnoid space around further compromising its functions. The neurological ef- both the brain and the spinal cord. All these chambers are fects of a stroke are determined by the brain area affected. connected with one another, and the pressure of the fluid is One of the most common types of stroke is blockage of the maintained at a surprisingly constant level. middle cerebral artery that supplies the midportion of one brain hemisphere. For example, if the middle cerebral artery CUSHIONING FUNCTION OF THE is blocked on the left side of the brain, the person is likely CEREBROSPINAL FLUID to lose function in Wernicke’s speech comprehension area in the left cerebral hemisphere, and he or she also becomes A major function of the cerebrospinal fluid is to cushion the unable to speak words because of loss of Broca’s motor area brain within its solid vault. The brain and the cerebrospinal for word formation. In addition, loss of function of neural fluid have about the same specific gravity (with only about a motor control areas of the left hemisphere can create spastic 4% difference), so the brain simply floats in the fluid. There- paralysis of most muscles on the opposite side of the body. fore, a blow to the head, if it is not too intense, moves the In a similar manner, blockage of a posterior cerebral ar- tery will cause infarction of the occipital pole of the hemi- entire brain simultaneously with the skull, causing no one sphere on the same side as the blockage, which causes loss portion of the brain to be momentarily contorted by the blow. of vision in both eyes in the half of the retina on the same side as the stroke lesion. Especially devastating are strokes Contrecoup. When a blow to the head is extremely se- that involve the blood supply to the midbrain because this vere, it may not damage the brain on the side of the head effect can block nerve conduction in major pathways be- where the blow is struck but is likely to damage the oppo- tween the brain and spinal cord, causing both sensory and site side. This phenomenon is known as “contrecoup,” and motor abnormalities. the reason for this effect is the following: When the blow is 780 Chapter 62 Cerebral Blood Flow, Cerebrospinal Fluid, and Brain Metabolism struck, the
