Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


as “contrecoup,” and motor abnormalities. the reason for this effect is the following: When the blow is 780 Chapter 62 Cerebral Blood Flow, Cerebrospinal Fluid, and Brain Metabolism struck, the fluid on the struck side is so incompressible that as the skull moves, the fluid pushes the brain at the same time in unison with the skull. On the side opposite to the area that is struck, the sudden movement of the whole skull Artery causes the skull to pull away from the brain momentarily because of the brain’s inertia, creating for a split second a Ependyma vacuum space in the cranial vault in the area opposite to the Vein blow. Then, when the skull is no longer being accelerated by the blow, the vacuum suddenly collapses and the brain strikes the inner surface of the skull. Taenia The poles and the inferior surfaces of the frontal and fornicis temporal lobes, where the brain comes into contact with bony protuberances in the base of the skull, are often the Tela sites of injury and contusions (bruises) after a severe blow choroidea to the head, such as that experienced by a boxer. If the con- tusion occurs on the same side as the impact injury, it is a Taenia choroidea coup injury; if it occurs on the opposite side, the contusion is a contrecoup injury. Blood vessel Coup and contrecoup injuries can also be caused by Ependyma rapid acceleration or deceleration alone in the absence of Villus epithelium physical impact due to a blow to the head. In these cases, the brain may bounce off the wall of the skull, causing a Villus connective tissue coup injury, and then also bounce off the opposite side, causing a contrecoup contusion. Such injuries are thought to occur, for example, in “shaken baby syndrome” or some- Figure 62- 6. Choroid plexus in a lateral ventricle. times in vehicular accidents. and through multiple arachnoidal villi that project into FORMATION, FLOW, AND ABSORPTION the large sagittal venous sinus and other venous sinuses OF CEREBROSPINAL FLUID of the cerebrum. Thus, any extra fluid empties into the venous blood through pores of these villi. Cerebrospinal fluid is formed at a rate of about 500 ml/ Secretion by the Choroid Plexus. The choroid plexus, a day, which is three to four times as much as the total section of which is shown in Figure 62- 6, is a cauliflower-
