Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Choroid Plexus. The choroid plexus, a day, which is three to four times as much as the total section of which is shown in Figure 62- 6, is a cauliflower- volume of fluid in the entire cerebrospinal fluid system. like growth of blood vessels covered by a thin layer of epi- About two-thirds or more of this fluid originates as secre- thelial cells. This plexus projects into the temporal horn tion from the choroid plexuses in the four ventricles, of each lateral ventricle, the posterior portion of the third mainly in the two lateral ventricles. Additional small ventricle, and the roof of the fourth ventricle. amounts of fluid are secreted by the ependymal surfaces Secretion of fluid into the ventricles by the choroid of all the ventricles and by the arachnoidal membranes. plexus depends mainly on active transport of sodium A small amount comes from the brain through the peri- ions through the epithelial cells lining the outside of the vascular spaces that surround the blood vessels passing plexus. The positive charges of sodium ions in turn pull through the brain. along large amounts of negatively charged chloride ions. The arrows in Figure 62-5 show that the main The two ions increase the quantity of osmotically active channels of fluid flow from the choroid plexuses and sodium chloride in the cerebrospinal fluid, which then then through the cerebrospinal fluid system. The fluid causes almost immediate osmosis of water through the secreted in the lateral ventricles passes first into the membrane, thus providing the fluid of the secretion. third ventricle; then, after addition of minute amounts of Less important transport processes move small fluid from the third ventricle, it flows downward along amounts of glucose into the cerebrospinal fluid and both the aqueduct of Sylvius into the fourth ventricle, where potassium and bicarbonate ions out of the cerebrospinal still another minute amount of fluid is added. Finally, fluid into the capillaries. Therefore, the resulting charac- the fluid passes out of the fourth ventricle through three teristics of the cerebrospinal fluid become the following: small openings, two lateral foramina of Luschka and osmotic pressure, approximately equal to that of plasma; a midline foramen of Magendie, entering the cisterna sodium ion concentration, also approximately equal to magna, a fluid space that lies behind the medulla and that of plasma; chloride ion, about 15% greater than in beneath the cerebellum. plasma; potassium ion, approximately
