Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


approximately equal to magna, a fluid space that lies behind the medulla and that of plasma; chloride ion, about 15% greater than in beneath the cerebellum. plasma; potassium ion, approximately 40% less; and glu- The cisterna magna is continuous with the subarach- cose, about 30% less. noid space that surrounds the entire brain and spinal cord. Almost all the cerebrospinal fluid then flows upward from Absorption of Cerebrospinal Fluid Through the the cisterna magna through the subarachnoid spaces sur- Arachnoidal Villi. The arachnoidal villi are microscopic rounding the cerebrum. From here, the fluid flows into fingerlike inward projections of the arachnoidal m embrane 781 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Arachnoid membrane Whether these lymphatic vessels are present in human beings is still uncertain. Arachnoid trabecula Subarachnoid space Cerebrospinal Fluid Pressure Pia mater The normal pressure in the cerebrospinal fluid system when one is lying in a horizontal position averages 130 mm of wa- Perivascular space ter (10 mm Hg), although this pressure may be as low as Penetrating 65 mm of water or as high as 195 mm of water even in the blood vessel normal healthy person. Regulation of Cerebrospinal Fluid Pressure by the Brain tissue Arachnoidal Villi. The normal rate of cerebrospinal fluid formation remains nearly constant, so changes in fluid formation are seldom a factor in pressure control. The Figure 62-7 . Drainage of a perivascular space into the subarachnoid arachnoidal villi function like valves that allow cerebro- space. (Modified from Ranson SW, Clark SL: Anatomy of the Nervous spinal fluid and its contents to flow readily into the blood System. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1959.) of the venous sinuses while not allowing blood to flow backward in the opposite direction. Normally, this valve through the walls and into the venous sinuses. Conglom- action of the villi allows cerebrospinal fluid to begin to erates of these villi form macroscopic structures called flow into the blood when cerebrospinal fluid pressure is arachnoidal granulations that can be seen protruding into about 1.5 mm Hg greater than the pressure of the blood the sinuses. The endothelial cells covering the villi have in the venous sinuses. Then, if the cerebrospinal fluid been shown by electron microscopy to have vesicular pas- pressure rises still higher, the valves open more widely. sages directly through the bodies of the cells large enough Under normal conditions, the cerebrospinal fluid
