Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


microscopy to have vesicular pas- pressure rises still higher, the valves open more widely. sages directly through the bodies of the cells large enough Under normal conditions, the cerebrospinal fluid pres- to allow relatively free flow of (1) cerebrospinal fluid, (2) sure almost never rises more than a few millimeters of dissolved protein molecules, and (3) even particles as large mercury higher than the pressure in the cerebral venous sinuses. as red and white blood cells into the venous blood. In disease states, the villi sometimes become blocked by Perivascular Spaces and Cerebrospinal Fluid. The large large particulate matter, by fibrosis, or by blood cells that arteries and veins of the brain lie on the surface of the have leaked into the cerebrospinal fluid in brain diseases. brain but their ends penetrate inward, carrying with them Such blockage can cause high cerebrospinal fluid pressure, a layer of pia mater, the membrane that covers the brain, as described in the following section. High Cerebrospinal Fluid Pressure in Pathological Con- as shown in Figure 62- 7. The pia is only loosely adherent ditions of the Brain. Often a large brain tumor elevates the to the vessels, so a space, the perivascular space, exists cerebrospinal fluid pressure by decreasing reabsorption of between it and each vessel. Therefore, perivascular spaces the cerebrospinal fluid back into the blood. As a result, the follow both the arteries and the veins into the brain as far cerebrospinal fluid pressure can rise to as much as 500 mm as the arterioles and venules go. of water (37 mm Hg) or about four times normal. Lymphatic Function of the Perivascular Spaces. As The cerebrospinal fluid pressure also rises considerably when hemorrhage or infection occurs in the cranial vault. In is true elsewhere in the body, a small amount of protein both these conditions, large numbers of red and/or white leaks out of the brain capillaries into the interstitial spaces blood cells suddenly appear in the cerebrospinal fluid and of the brain. The protein that leaks into the brain inter- can cause serious blockage of the small absorption chan- stitial spaces leaves the tissue flowing with fluid through nels through the arachnoidal villi. This also sometimes el- the perivascular spaces into the subarachnoid spaces. On evates the cerebrospinal fluid pressure to 400 to 600 mm of reaching the subarachnoid spaces, the protein then flows water (about four times normal). with
