Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


into the subarachnoid spaces. On evates the cerebrospinal fluid pressure to 400 to 600 mm of reaching the subarachnoid spaces, the protein then flows water (about four times normal). with the cerebrospinal fluid to be absorbed through the Some babies are born with high cerebrospinal fluid arachnoidal villi into the large cerebral veins. Therefore, pressure, which is often caused by abnormally high resist- perivascular spaces, in effect, provide a specialized lym- ance to fluid reabsorption through the arachnoidal villi, phatic system for the brain. resulting either from too few arachnoidal villi or from villi In addition to transporting fluid and proteins, the peri- with abnormal absorptive properties. This is discussed later in connection with hydrocephalus. vascular spaces transport extraneous particulate matter Measurement of Cerebrospinal Fluid Pressure. The out of the brain. For example, whenever infection occurs usual procedure for measuring cerebrospinal fluid pressure in the brain, dead white blood cells and other infectious is simple. First, the person lies exactly horizontally on his or debris are carried away through the perivascular spaces. her side so that the fluid pressure in the spinal canal is equal Scientists have long believed that the brain lacks true to the pressure in the cranial vault. A spinal needle is then lymphatic vessels to drain the interstitial spaces of excess inserted into the lumbar spinal canal below the lower end fluid, protein, and other macromolecules. Some studies, of the cord, and the needle is connected to a vertical glass however, have reported that there are meningeal lym- tube that is open to the air at its top. The spinal fluid is al- phatic vessels at the base of the skull, at least in rodents. lowed to rise in the tube as high as it will. If it rises to a level 136 mm above the level of the needle, the pressure is said 782 Chapter 62 Cerebral Blood Flow, Cerebrospinal Fluid, and Brain Metabolism to be 136 mm of water pressure—or, dividing this number In general, the blood–cerebrospinal fluid and blood–brain by 13.6, which is the specific gravity of mercury, about 10 barriers are highly permeable to water, CO, O, and most lipid- 2 2 mm Hg pressure. soluble substances such as alcohol and anesthetics; slightly Obstruction to Flow of Cerebrospinal Fluid Can Cause permeable to electrolytes such as sodium, chloride, and potas- Hydrocephalus. “Hydrocephalus” means excess water in sium; and almost totally impermeable to
