Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


slightly Obstruction to Flow of Cerebrospinal Fluid Can Cause permeable to electrolytes such as sodium, chloride, and potas- Hydrocephalus. “Hydrocephalus” means excess water in sium; and almost totally impermeable to plasma proteins and the cranial vault. This condition is frequently divided into most non–lipid- soluble large organic molecules. Therefore, communicating hydrocephalus and noncommunicating hy- the blood–cerebrospinal fluid and blood–brain barriers often drocephalus. In communicating hydrocephalus, fluid flows make it impossible to achieve effective concentrations of thera- readily from the ventricular system into the subarachnoid peutic drugs, such as protein antibodies and non–lipid- soluble space, whereas in noncommunicating hydrocephalus, fluid drugs, in the cerebrospinal fluid or parenchyma of the brain. flow out of one or more of the ventricles is blocked. The cause of the low permeability of the blood–cere- Usually the noncommunicating type of hydrocephalus brospinal fluid and blood–brain barriers is the manner in is caused by a block in the aqueduct of Sylvius, resulting which the endothelial cells of the brain tissue capillaries are from atresia (closure) before birth in many babies or from joined to one another. They are joined by so-c alled tight blockage by a brain tumor at any age. As fluid is formed by junctions. That is, the membranes of the adjacent endothe- the choroid plexuses in the two lateral and the third ventri- lial cells are tightly fused rather than having large slit pores cles, the volumes of these three ventricles increase greatly, between them, as is the case for most other capillaries of which flattens the brain into a thin shell against the skull. the body. In neonates, the increased pressure also causes the whole Brain Edema head to swell because the skull bones have not yet fused. The communicating type of hydrocephalus is usually One of the most serious complications of abnormal cer- caused by blockage of fluid flow in the subarachnoid spaces ebral fluid dynamics is the development of brain edema. around the basal regions of the brain or by blockage of the Because the brain is encased in a solid cranial vault, ac- arachnoidal villi where the fluid is normally absorbed into cumulation of extra edema fluid compresses the blood the venous sinuses. Fluid therefore collects both on the vessels, often causing seriously decreased blood flow and outside of the brain and to a lesser extent inside the ventri- destruction of brain tissue. cles. This will also cause the head
