Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


often causing seriously decreased blood flow and outside of the brain and to a lesser extent inside the ventri- destruction of brain tissue. cles. This will also cause the head to swell tremendously if The usual cause of brain edema is either greatly in- it occurs in infancy when the skull is still pliable and can be creased capillary pressure or damage to the capillary wall stretched, and it can damage the brain at any age. A therapy that makes the wall leaky to fluid. A common cause is a for many types of hydrocephalus is surgical placement of a serious blow to the head, leading to brain concussion, in silicone tube shunt all the way from one of the brain ven- which the brain tissues and capillaries are traumatized and tricles to the peritoneal cavity where the excess fluid can be capillary fluid leaks into the traumatized tissues. absorbed into the blood. Once brain edema begins, it often initiates two vicious circles because of the following positive feedbacks: Blood–Cerebrospinal Fluid and Blood–Brain Barriers 1. E dema compresses the vasculature, which in turn It has already been pointed out that the concentrations of decreases blood flow and causes brain ischemia. The several important constituents of cerebrospinal fluid are ischemia in turn causes arteriolar dilation with still not the same as in extracellular fluid elsewhere in the body. further increase in capillary pressure. The increased Furthermore, many large molecules hardly pass at all from capillary pressure then causes more edema fluid, so the the blood into the cerebrospinal fluid or into the interstitial edema becomes progressively worse. fluids of the brain, even though these same substances pass 2. Th e decreased cerebral blood flow also decreases O 2 readily into the usual interstitial fluids of the body. There- delivery, which increases the permeability of the capil- fore, it is said that barriers, called the blood– cerebrospinal laries, allowing still more fluid leakage. The diminished fluid barrier and the blood–brain barrier, exist between the blood flow also reduces delivery of substrates needed blood and the cerebrospinal fluid and brain fluid, respec- to produce adequate adenosine triphosphate (ATP) tively. that, in turn, is required for the sodium pumps of the These barriers exist both at the choroid plexus and at neuronal tissue cells, thus allowing these cells to swell. the tissue capillary membranes in essentially all areas of the Once these vicious circles
