Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


both at the choroid plexus and at neuronal tissue cells, thus allowing these cells to swell. the tissue capillary membranes in essentially all areas of the Once these vicious circles have begun, heroic measures brain parenchyma except in some areas of the hypothala- must be used to prevent total destruction of the brain. One mus, pineal gland, and area postrema, where substances such measure is to infuse intravenously a concentrated osmot- diffuse with greater ease into the tissue spaces. The ease ic substance, such as a concentrated mannitol solution, which of diffusion in these areas is important because they have pulls fluid by osmosis from the brain tissue and breaks up the sensory receptors that respond to specific changes in the vicious circles. Another procedure is to remove fluid quickly body fluids, such as changes in osmolality and in glucose from the lateral ventricles of the brain by means of ventricular concentration, as well as receptors for peptide hormones needle puncture, thereby relieving the intracerebral pressure. that regulate thirst, such as angiotensin II. The blood–brain barrier also has specific carrier molecules that facilitate BRAIN METABOLISM transport of hormones, such as leptin, from the blood into the hypothalamus where they bind to specific receptors Like other tissues, the brain requires O and food nutri- 2 that control other functions such as appetite and sympa- ents to supply its metabolic needs. However, brain metab- thetic nervous system activity. olism features special attributes that require mention. 783 UNIT XI UNIT XI The Nervous System: C. Motor and Integrative Neurophysiology Total Brain Metabolic Rate and Metabolic Rate of diffuses readily into the neurons, which is most fortu- Neurons. Under resting but awake conditions, brain me- nate in preventing loss of mental function in persons tabolism accounts for about 15% of the total metabolism with diabetes. Yet when a diabetic patient is overtreated in the body, even though brain mass is only 2% of the to- with insulin, the blood glucose concentration can fall to tal body mass. Therefore, under resting conditions, brain an extremely low level because the excess insulin causes metabolism per unit mass of tissue is about 7.5 times the almost all the glucose in the blood to be transported average metabolism in non- nervous system tissues. rapidly into the vast numbers of insulin- sensitive non- Most of this brain metabolism occurs in the neurons, neural cells throughout the body, especially into
