Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in non- nervous system tissues. rapidly into the vast numbers of insulin- sensitive non- Most of this brain metabolism occurs in the neurons, neural cells throughout the body, especially into muscle not in the glial supportive tissues. The major need for and liver cells. When this happens, not enough glucose metabolism in the neurons is to pump ions through their is left in the blood to supply the neurons properly, and membranes, mainly to transport sodium and calcium mental function becomes seriously deranged, lead- ions to the outside of the neuronal membrane and potas- ing sometimes to coma and even more often to mental sium ions to the interior. Each time a neuron conducts an imbalances and psychotic disturbances—all caused by action potential, these ions move through the membranes, overtreatment with insulin. increasing the need for additional membrane transport to restore proper ionic concentration differences across Bibliography the neuron membranes. Therefore, during high levels of brain activity, neuronal metabolism can increase as much Ben Haim L, Rowitch DH: Functional diversity of astrocytes in neural as 100% to 150%. circuit regulation. Nat Rev Neurosci 18:31, 2017. Butterfield DA, Halliwell B: Oxidative stress, dysfunctional glucose me- Special Requirement of the Brain for Oxygen—Lack tabolism and Alzheimer disease. Nat Rev Neurosci 20:148, 2019. of Significant Anaerobic Metabolism. Most tissues Chesler M: Regulation and modulation of pH in the brain. Physiol Rev 83:1183, 2003. of the body can live without O for several minutes and 2 Coucha M, Abdelsaid M, Ward R, et al: Impact of metabolic diseases some for as long as 30 minutes. During this time, the tis- on cerebral circulation: Structural and functional consequences. sue cells obtain their energy through processes of anaero- Compr Physiol 8:773, 2018. bic metabolism, which means release of energy by par- Damkier HH, Brown PD, Praetorius J: Cerebrospinal fluid secretion by the choroid plexus. Physiol Rev 93:1847, 2013. tially breaking down glucose and glycogen but without Harder DR, Rarick KR, Gebremedhin D, Cohen SS: Regulation of cer- combining these with O . This process delivers energy but 2 ebral blood flow: response to cytochrome P450 lipid metabolites. at the expense of consuming tremendous amounts of glu- Compr Physiol 8:801, 2018. cose and glycogen. However, it does keep the tissues alive. Iadecola C: The neurovascular unit coming of age: a journey through The brain is not capable of much anaerobic metabolism neurovascular coupling in health and disease.
