Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and during exercise in hu- mans. Eur J Appl Physiol 118:1527, 2018. brane is not dependent on insulin, even though insulin Verkhratsky A, Nedergaard M: Physiology of astroglia. Physiol Rev is required for glucose transport into most other body 98:239, 2018. cells. Therefore, in patients who have serious diabetes Wardlaw JM, Smith C, Dichgans M: Small vessel disease: mechanisms with essentially zero secretion of insulin, glucose still and clinical implications. Lancet Neurol 18:684, 2019. 784 CHAPTER 6 3 General Principles of Gastrointestinal Function—Motility, Nervous Control, and Blood Circulation The alimentary tract provides the body with a continual ranged in bundles of as many as 1000 parallel fibers. In supply of water, electrolytes, vitamins, and nutrients, the longitudinal muscle layer, the bundles extend longi- which requires the following: (1) movement of food tudinally down the intestinal tract; in the circular muscle through the alimentary tract; (2) secretion of digestive layer, they extend around the gut. juices and digestion of the food; (3) absorption of water, Within each bundle, the muscle fibers are electrically various electrolytes, vitamins, and digestive products; (4) connected with one another through large numbers of circulation of blood through the gastrointestinal organs to gap junctions that allow low- resistance movement of ions carry away the absorbed substances; and (5) control of all from one muscle cell to the next. Therefore, electrical sig- these functions by local, nervous, and hormonal systems. nals that initiate muscle contractions can travel readily Figure 63- 1 shows the entire alimentary tract. Each from one fiber to the next within each bundle but more part is adapted to its specific functions— some parts to rapidly along the length of the bundle than sideways. simple passage of food, such as the esophagus; others to Each bundle of smooth muscle fibers is partly sepa- temporary storage of food, such as the stomach; and oth- rated from the next by loose connective tissue; however, ers to digestion and absorption, such as the small intes- the muscle bundles fuse with one another at many points, tine. In this chapter we discuss the basic principles of so in reality each muscle layer represents a branching lat- function in the entire alimentary tract, and in subsequent ticework of smooth muscle bundles. Therefore, each mus- chapters the specific functions of different segments of cle layer functions as a syncytium; that is, when an action the tract will be addressed. potential is
