Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


bundles. Therefore, each mus- chapters the specific functions of different segments of cle layer functions as a syncytium; that is, when an action the tract will be addressed. potential is elicited anywhere within the muscle mass, it generally travels in all directions in the muscle. The dis- GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF GASTROIN- tance that it travels depends on the excitability of the TESTINAL MOTILITY muscle; sometimes it stops after only a few millimeters, and at other times it travels many centimeters or even the entire length and breadth of the intestinal tract. Physiologic Anatomy of the Also, because a few connections exist between the lon- Gastrointestinal Wall gitudinal and circular muscle layers, excitation of one of Figure 63- 2 shows a typical cross section of the intes- these layers often excites the other as well. tinal wall, including the following layers from the outer Electrical Activity of Gastrointestinal surface inward: (1) the serosa, (2) a longitudinal smooth Smooth Muscle muscle layer, (3) a circular smooth muscle layer, (4) the submucosa, and (5) the mucosa. In addition, sparse bun- The smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract is excited dles of smooth muscle fibers, the mucosal muscle, lie in by almost continual slow, intrinsic electrical activity along the deeper layers of the mucosa. The motor functions of the membranes of the muscle fibers. This activity has the gut are performed by the different layers of smooth two basic types of electrical waves: (1) slow waves and (2) muscle. spikes, both of which are shown in Figure 63- 3. In addi- The general characteristics of smooth muscle and its tion, the voltage of the resting membrane potential of the function are discussed in Chapter 8, which should be gastrointestinal smooth muscle can change to different reviewed as a background for the following sections of levels, which can also have important effects in control- this chapter. ling motor activity of the gastrointestinal tract. Gastrointestinal Smooth Muscle Functions as a Syn- “Slow Waves” Caused by Undulating Changes in cytium. The individual smooth muscle fibers in the gas- Resting Membrane Potential. Most gastrointestinal trointestinal tract are 200 to 500 micrometers in length contractions occur rhythmically, and this rhythm is and 2 to 10 micrometers in diameter, and they are ar- determined mainly by the frequency of so- called “slow 787 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Spikes 0 Depolarization (cid:31)10 (cid:31)20 Slow waves (cid:31)30 Parotid gland Stimulation
