Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


they are ar- determined mainly by the frequency of so- called “slow 787 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Spikes 0 Depolarization (cid:31)10 (cid:31)20 Slow waves (cid:31)30 Parotid gland Stimulation by Mouth (cid:31)40 1. Norepinephrine Salivary glands (cid:31)50 2. Sympathetics (cid:31)60 Resting Stimulation by Esophagus (cid:31)70 1. Stretch Hyperpolarization 2. Acetylcholine 3. Parasympathetics 0 6 12 18 24 30 36 42 48 54 SSeeccoonnddss Figure 63- 3. Membrane potentials in intestinal smooth muscle. Note Liver Stomach the slow waves, the spike potentials, total depolarization, and hyper- Gallbladder polarization, all of which occur under different physiological condi- Pancreas tions of the intestine. Duodenum Transverse Jejunum colon eum is usually about 3/min, about 12/min, and 8 to 9/ Descending Ascending min, respectively. colon colon The precise cause of the slow waves is not completely Ileum understood, although they appear to be caused by com- plex interactions among the smooth muscle cells and spe- Anus cialized cells, called the interstitial cells of Cajal, which are believed to act as electrical pacemakers for smooth Figure 63- 1. Alimentary tract. muscle cells. These interstitial cells form a network with each other and are interposed between the smooth mus- Serosa cle layers, with synaptic- like contacts to smooth muscle Longitudinal muscle cells. The interstitial cells of Cajal undergo cyclic changes Circular muscle in membrane potential due to unique ion channels that periodically open and produce inward (pacemaker) cur- Submucosa rents that may generate slow wave activity. Mucosal The slow waves usually do not by themselves cause muscle muscle contraction in most parts of the gastrointestinal Mucosa tract, except perhaps in the stomach. Instead, they mainly Epithelial excite the appearance of intermittent spike potentials, lining and the spike potentials in turn actually excite the muscle Mucosal gland contraction. Myenteric nerve Spike Potentials. The spike potentials are true action plexus potentials. They occur automatically when the resting Meissner's membrane potential of the gastrointestinal smooth mus- nerve plexus Submucosal gland cle becomes more positive than about −40 millivolts (the normal resting membrane potential in the smooth mus- Mesentery cle fibers of the gut is between −50 and −60 millivolts). Figure 63- 2. Typical cross section of the gut. Note in Figure 63- 3 that each time the peaks of the slow waves temporarily become more positive than −40 mil- waves” of smooth muscle membrane potential. These livolts, spike potentials appear on these peaks. The higher waves, shown in Figure
