Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the slow waves temporarily become more positive than −40 mil- waves” of smooth muscle membrane potential. These livolts, spike potentials appear on these peaks. The higher waves, shown in Figure 63-3 , are not action potentials. the slow wave potential rises, the greater the frequency Instead, they are slow, undulating changes in the rest- of the spike potentials, usually ranging between 1 and 10 ing membrane potential. Their intensity usually varies spikes per second. The spike potentials last 10 to 40 times between 5 and 15 millivolts, and their frequency ranges as long in gastrointestinal muscle as the action potentials in different parts of the human gastrointestinal tract in large nerve fibers, with each gastrointestinal spike last- from 3 to 12/min—about 3 in the body of the stomach, ing as long as 10 to 20 milliseconds. as much as 12 in the duodenum, and about 8 or 9 in the Another important difference between the action terminal ileum. Therefore, the rhythm of contraction potentials of the gastrointestinal smooth muscle and of the body of the stomach, the duodenum, and the il- those of nerve fibers is the manner in which they are 788 )stlovillim( laitnetop enarbmeM Chapter 63 General Principles of Gastrointestinal Function—Motility, Nervous Control, and Blood Circulation generated. In nerve fibers, the action potentials are Tonic Contraction of Some Gastrointestinal Smooth caused almost entirely by rapid entry of sodium ions Muscle. Some smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract through sodium channels to the interior of the fibers. exhibits tonic contraction as well as, or instead of, rhythmic In gastrointestinal smooth muscle fibers, the channels contractions. Tonic contraction is continuous; it is not asso- responsible for the action potentials are somewhat dif- ciated with the basic electrical rhythm of the slow waves but ferent; they allow especially large numbers of calcium often lasts several minutes or even hours. The tonic contrac- ions to enter along with smaller numbers of sodium tion may increase or decrease in intensity but it continues. ions and therefore are called calcium-s odium channels. Tonic contraction is sometimes caused by continuous These channels are much slower to open and close than repetitive spike potentials—the greater the frequency, the are the rapid sodium channels of large nerve fibers. The greater the degree of contraction. At other times, tonic slowness of opening and closing of the calcium- sodium contraction is caused by hormones or other factors that channels
