Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fibers. The greater the degree of contraction. At other times, tonic slowness of opening and closing of the calcium- sodium contraction is caused by hormones or other factors that channels accounts for the long duration of the action bring about continuous partial depolarization of the potentials. Also, the movement of large amounts of smooth muscle membrane without causing action poten- calcium ions to the interior of the muscle fiber dur- tials. A third cause of tonic contraction is continuous entry ing the action potential plays a special role in causing of calcium ions into the interior of the cell brought about the intestinal muscle fibers to contract, as we discuss in ways not associated with changes in membrane poten- shortly. tial. The details of these mechanisms are still unclear. Changes in Voltage of the Resting Membrane Poten- NEURAL CONTROL OF tial. In addition to the slow waves and spike potentials, GASTROINTESTINAL FUNCTION— the baseline voltage level of the smooth muscle resting ENTERIC NERVOUS SYSTEM membrane potential can also change. Under normal con- ditions, the resting membrane potential averages about The gastrointestinal tract has a nervous system all its own −56 millivolts, but multiple factors can change this level. called the enteric nervous system. It lies entirely in the wall When the potential becomes less negative, which is called of the gut, beginning in the esophagus and extending all depolarization of the membrane, the muscle fibers be- the way to the anus. The number of neurons in this enteric come more excitable. When the potential becomes more system is greater than 100 million, more than the number negative, which is called hyperpolarization, the fibers be- in the entire spinal cord. This highly developed enteric come less excitable. nervous system is especially important in controlling gas- Factors that depolarize the membrane—that is, make trointestinal movements and secretion. it more excitable—are (1) stretching of the muscle, (2) The enteric nervous system is composed mainly of stimulation by acetylcholine released from the endings two plexuses, shown in Figure 63- 4: (1) an outer plexus of parasympathetic nerves, and (3) stimulation by several lying between the longitudinal and circular muscle layers, specific gastrointestinal hormones. called the myenteric plexus or Auerbach’s plexus; and (2) Important factors that make the membrane potential an inner plexus, called the submucosal plexus or Meiss- more negative—that is, that hyperpolarize the mem- ner’s plexus, which lies in the submucosa. The nervous
