Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that make the membrane potential an inner plexus, called the submucosal plexus or Meiss- more negative—that is, that hyperpolarize the mem- ner’s plexus, which lies in the submucosa. The nervous brane and make the muscle fibers less excitable—are connections within and between these two plexuses are (1) the effect of norepinephrine or epinephrine on the also shown in Figure 63- 4. fiber membrane and (2) stimulation of the sympathetic The myenteric plexus controls mainly the gastroin- nerves that secrete mainly norepinephrine at their testinal movements, and the submucosal plexus controls endings. mainly gastrointestinal secretion and local blood flow. In Figure 63- 4, note especially the extrinsic sympa- Entry of Calcium Ions Causes Smooth Muscle Contrac- thetic and parasympathetic fibers that connect to both tion. Smooth muscle contraction occurs in response to the myenteric and submucosal plexuses. Although the entry of calcium ions into the muscle fiber. As explained enteric nervous system can function independently of in Chapter 8, calcium ions act through a calmodulin con- these extrinsic nerves, stimulation by the parasympa- trol mechanism to activate the myosin filaments in the thetic and sympathetic systems can greatly enhance or fiber, causing attractive forces to develop between the inhibit gastrointestinal functions, as we discuss later. myosin filaments and the actin filaments, thereby causing Also shown in Figure 63- 4 are sensory nerve endings the muscle to contract. that originate in the gastrointestinal epithelium or gut wall The slow waves do not cause calcium ions to enter the and send afferent fibers to both plexuses of the enteric sys- smooth muscle fiber (they only cause entry of sodium tem, as well as (1) to the prevertebral ganglia of the sym- ions). Therefore, the slow waves by themselves usually pathetic nervous system, (2) the spinal cord, and (3) in the do not cause muscle contraction. Instead, it is during the vagus nerves, all the way to the brain stem. These sensory spike potentials, generated at the peaks of the slow waves, nerves can elicit local reflexes within the gut wall and still that significant quantities of calcium ions enter the fibers other reflexes that are relayed to the gut from either the and cause most of the contraction. prevertebral ganglia or the basal regions of the brain. 789 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Sympathetic Parasympathetic To prevertebral ganglia, spinal (mainly postganglionic) (preganglionic) cord, and brain stem Myenteric plexus Figure 63- 4. Neural
