Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


regions of the brain. 789 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Sympathetic Parasympathetic To prevertebral ganglia, spinal (mainly postganglionic) (preganglionic) cord, and brain stem Myenteric plexus Figure 63- 4. Neural control of the gut wall, showing the following: (1) the my- enteric and submucosal plexuses (black Submucosal fibers); (2) extrinsic control of these plex- plexus uses by the sympathetic and parasympa- thetic nervous systems (red fibers); and Sensory (3) sensory fibers passing from the lumi- neurons nal epithelium and gut wall to the enteric plexuses, then to the prevertebral ganglia Epithelium of the spinal cord and directly to the spi- nal cord and brain stem (green fibers). DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE MYENTERIC AND SUBMUCOSAL PLEXUSES that causes various degrees of infolding of the gastrointes- tinal mucosa. The myenteric plexus consists mostly of a linear chain of many interconnecting neurons that extends the entire TYPES OF NEUROTRANSMITTERS length of the gastrointestinal tract. A section of this chain SECRETED BY ENTERIC NEURONS is shown in Figure 63- 4. Because the myenteric plexus extends all the way along Researchers have identified more than 25 potential neu- the intestinal wall and lies between the longitudinal and rotransmitter substances that are released by the nerve circular layers of intestinal smooth muscle, it is concerned endings of different types of enteric neurons, including mainly with controlling muscle activity along the length the following: (1) acetylcholine, (2) norepinephrine, (3) of the gut. When this plexus is stimulated, its principal adenosine triphosphate, (4) serotonin, (5) dopamine, (6) effects are as follows: (1) increased tonic contraction, or cholecystokinin, (7) substance P, (8) vasoactive intestinal “tone,” of the gut wall; (2) increased intensity of the rhyth- polypeptide, (9) somatostatin, (10) leu- enkephalin, (11) mic contractions; (3) slightly increased rate of the rhythm met- enkephalin, (12) bombesin, (13) neuropeptide Y, and of contraction; and (4) increased velocity of conduction (14) nitric oxide. The specific functions of many of these of excitatory waves along the gut wall, causing more rapid substances are not known well enough to justify discussion movement of the gut peristaltic waves. here other than to point out the following characteristics. The myenteric plexus should not be considered entirely Acetylcholine most often excites gastrointestinal activ- excitatory because some of its neurons are inhibitory; their ity. Norepinephrine almost always inhibits gastrointestinal fiber endings secrete an inhibitory transmitter, possibly activity, as does epinephrine, which reaches the gastro- vasoactive intestinal polypeptide or some
