Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


neurons are inhibitory; their ity. Norepinephrine almost always inhibits gastrointestinal fiber endings secrete an inhibitory transmitter, possibly activity, as does epinephrine, which reaches the gastro- vasoactive intestinal polypeptide or some other inhibitory intestinal tract mainly via the blood after it is secreted peptide. The resulting inhibitory signals are especially use- by the adrenal medullae into the circulation. The other ful for inhibiting some of the intestinal sphincter muscles aforementioned transmitter substances are a mixture of that impede movement of food along successive segments excitatory and inhibitory agents, some of which we will of the gastrointestinal tract, such as the pyloric sphincter, discuss in Chapter 64. which controls emptying of the stomach into the duode- num, and the sphincter of the ileocecal valve, which con- AUTONOMIC CONTROL OF THE trols emptying from the small intestine into the cecum. GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT The submucosal plexus, in contrast to the myenteric plexus, is mainly concerned with controlling function in Parasympathetic Stimulation Increases Activity of the inner wall of each minute segment of the intestine. For the Enteric Nervous System. The parasympathetic sup- example, many sensory signals originate from the gastro- ply to the gut is divided into cranial and sacral divisions, intestinal epithelium and are then integrated in the submu- which were discussed in Chapter 61. cosal plexus to help control local intestinal secretion, local Except for a few parasympathetic fibers to the mouth absorption, and local contraction of the submucosal muscle and pharyngeal regions of the alimentary tract, the cranial 790 Chapter 63 General Principles of Gastrointestinal Function—Motility, Nervous Control, and Blood Circulation parasympathetic nerve fibers are almost entirely in the (2) excessive gut distention, or (3) the presence of spe- vagus nerves. These fibers provide extensive innervation cific chemical substances in the gut. Signals transmitted to the esophagus, stomach, and pancreas and somewhat through the fibers can then cause excitation or, under less to the intestines down through the first half of the other conditions, inhibition of intestinal movements or large intestine. intestinal secretion. The sacral parasympathetics originate in the second, In addition, other sensory signals from the gut go all third, and fourth sacral segments of the spinal cord and the way to multiple areas of the spinal cord and even to pass through the pelvic nerves to the distal half of the large the brain stem. For example, 80% of the nerve fibers in the intestine and all the way
