Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to pass through the pelvic nerves to the distal half of the large the brain stem. For example, 80% of the nerve fibers in the intestine and all the way to the anus. The sigmoidal, rec- vagus nerves are afferent rather than efferent. These affer- tal, and anal regions are considerably better supplied with ent fibers transmit sensory signals from the gastrointes- parasympathetic fibers than are the other intestinal areas. tinal tract into the brain medulla which, in turn, initiates These fibers function especially to execute the defecation vagal reflex signals that return to the gastrointestinal tract reflexes, discussed in Chapter 64. to control many of its functions. The postganglionic neurons of the gastrointestinal para- Gastrointestinal Reflexes sympathetic system are located mainly in the myenteric and submucosal plexuses. Stimulation of these parasym- The anatomical arrangement of the enteric nervous pathetic nerves generally increases activity of the entire system and its connections with the sympathetic and enteric nervous system, which in turn enhances activity parasympathetic systems support three types of gastro- of most gastrointestinal functions. intestinal reflexes that are essential to gastrointestinal control. Sympathetic Stimulation Usually Inhibits Gastroin- 1. Reflexes that are integrated entirely within the gut testinal Tract Activity. The sympathetic fibers to the wall enteric nervous system. These reflexes include, gastrointestinal tract originate in the spinal cord between for example, those that control much gastrointesti- segments T5 and L2. Most of the preganglionic fibers that nal secretion, peristalsis, mixing contractions, local innervate the gut, after leaving the cord, enter the sym- inhibitory effects, and so forth. pathetic chains that lie lateral to the spinal column, and 2. Reflexes from the gut to the prevertebral sympathetic many of these fibers then pass on through the chains to ganglia and then back to the gastrointestinal tract. outlying ganglia such as to the celiac ganglion and various These reflexes transmit signals long distances to mesenteric ganglia. Most of the postganglionic sympathet- other areas of the gastrointestinal tract, such as sig- ic neuron bodies are in these ganglia, and postganglionic nals from the stomach to cause evacuation of the fibers then spread through postganglionic sympathetic colon (the gastrocolic reflex), signals from the colon nerves to all parts of the gut. The sympathetics innervate and small intestine to inhibit stomach motility and essentially all of the gastrointestinal tract, rather than be- stomach secretion (the enterogastric reflexes), and ing more extensive nearest the oral cavity
