Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and small intestine to inhibit stomach motility and essentially all of the gastrointestinal tract, rather than be- stomach secretion (the enterogastric reflexes), and ing more extensive nearest the oral cavity and anus, as is reflexes from the colon to inhibit emptying of ileal true of the parasympathetics. The sympathetic nerve end- contents into the colon (the colonoileal reflex). ings secrete mainly norepinephrine. 3. Reflexes from the gut to the spinal cord or brain stem In general, stimulation of the sympathetic nervous and then back to the gastrointestinal tract. These re- system inhibits activity of the gastrointestinal tract, flexes include especially the following: (1) reflexes causing many effects opposite to those of the parasym- from the stomach and duodenum to the brain stem pathetic system. It exerts its effects in two ways: (1) to a and back to the stomach—via the vagus nerves— slight extent by direct effect of secreted norepinephrine to to control gastric motor and secretory activity; (2) inhibit intestinal tract smooth muscle (except the mucosal pain reflexes that cause general inhibition of the muscle, which it excites) and (2) to a major extent by an entire gastrointestinal tract; and (3) defecation re- inhibitory effect of norepinephrine on the neurons of the flexes that travel from the colon and rectum to the entire enteric nervous system. spinal cord and back again to produce the power- Strong stimulation of the sympathetic system can ful colonic, rectal, and abdominal contractions re- inhibit motor movements of the gut so greatly that this quired for defecation (the defecation reflexes). can literally block movement of food through the gastro- intestinal tract. HORMONAL CONTROL OF Afferent Sensory Nerve Fibers From the GASTROINTESTINAL MOTILITY Gut The gastrointestinal hormones are released into the por- Many afferent sensory nerve fibers innervate the gut. tal circulation and exert physiological actions on target Some of the nerve fibers have their cell bodies in the cells with specific receptors for the hormone. The effects enteric nervous system, and some have them in the dor- of the hormones persist even after all nervous connec- sal root ganglia of the spinal cord. These sensory nerves tions between the site of release and the site of action have can be stimulated by (1) irritation of the gut mucosa, been severed. Table 63- 1 outlines the actions of each 791 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Table 63- 1 Gastrointestinal Hormone Actions, Stimuli for Secretion,
