Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


turn helps to neutralize acid in the small intestine. ucts of proteins, and gastrin- releasing peptide, which is Glucose- dependent insulinotropic peptide (also called released by the nerves of the gastric mucosa during vagal gastric inhibitory peptide [GIP]) is secreted by the mucosa stimulation. The primary actions of gastrin are (1) stim- of the upper small intestine, mainly in response to fatty ulation of gastric acid secretion and (2) stimulation of acids and amino acids but to a lesser extent in response growth of the gastric mucosa. to carbohydrate. It has a mild effect in decreasing motor Cholecystokinin (CCK) is secreted by “I” cells in the activity of the stomach and therefore slows emptying mucosa of the duodenum and jejunum mainly in response of gastric contents into the duodenum when the upper to digestive products of fat, fatty acids, and monoglyc- small intestine is already overloaded with food products. erides in the intestinal contents. This hormone strongly Glucose- dependent insulinotropic peptide, at blood lev- contracts the gallbladder, expelling bile into the small els even lower than those needed to inhibit gastric motil- intestine, where the bile, in turn, plays important roles ity, also stimulates insulin secretion. in emulsifying fatty substances and allowing them to be Motilin is secreted by the stomach and upper duode- digested and absorbed. CCK also inhibits stomach con- num during fasting, and the only known function of this traction moderately. Therefore, at the same time that this hormone is to increase gastrointestinal motility. Motilin hormone causes emptying of the gallbladder, it also slows is released cyclically and stimulates waves of gastrointes- the emptying of food from the stomach to give adequate tinal motility called interdigestive myoelectric complexes time for digestion of the fats in the upper intestinal tract. that move through the stomach and small intestine every 792 Chapter 63 General Principles of Gastrointestinal Function—Motility, Nervous Control, and Blood Circulation 90 minutes in a person who has fasted. Motilin secretion A. Peristalsis contractions (esophagus, stomach, small intestine) is inhibited after ingestion of food by mechanisms that are Contraction Relaxation not fully understood. FUNCTIONAL MOVEMENTS IN THE GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT Direction of movement Two types of movements occur in the gastrointestinal tract: (1) propulsive movements, which cause food to move forward along the tract at an appropriate rate to accommodate digestion and absorption, and (2) mix- ing movements, which keep the intestinal contents thor- oughly mixed at all
