Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to move forward along the tract at an appropriate rate to accommodate digestion and absorption, and (2) mix- ing movements, which keep the intestinal contents thor- oughly mixed at all times. PROPULSIVE MOVEMENTS—PERISTALSIS B. Segmentation contractions (small and large intestines) The basic propulsive movement of the gastrointestinal tract is peristalsis, which is illustrated in Figure 63- 5A. A contractile ring appears around the gut and then moves forward; this mechanism is analogous to putting one’s fingers around a thin distended tube, then constricting the fingers and sliding them forward along the tube. Any material in front of the contractile ring is moved forward. Peristalsis is an inherent property of many syncytial smooth muscle tubes; stimulation at any point in the gut Mixing can cause a contractile ring to appear in the circular mus- Figure 63- 5. Peristalsis involves contraction and downstream re- cle, and this ring then spreads along the gut tube. (Peristal- laxation in the esophagus, stomach and small intestine propel the sis also occurs in the bile ducts, glandular ducts, ureters, contents toward the anus. Intermittent segmentation contractions in and many other smooth muscle tubes of the body.) separate sections of the small and large intestines mix their contents with little forward movement. The usual stimulus for intestinal peristalsis is distention of the gut. That is, if a large amount of food collects at any point in the gut, stretching of the gut wall stimulates the the myenteric plexus is “polarized” in the anal direction, enteric nervous system to contract the gut wall 2 to 3 cen- which can be explained as follows. timeters behind this point, and a contractile ring appears When a segment of the intestinal tract is excited by that initiates a peristaltic movement. Other stimuli that distention and thereby initiates peristalsis, the contractile can initiate peristalsis include chemical or physical irrita- ring causing the peristalsis normally begins on the orad tion of the epithelial lining in the gut. Also, strong para- side of the distended segment and moves toward the dis- sympathetic nervous signals to the gut will elicit strong tended segment, pushing the intestinal contents in the peristalsis. anal direction for 5 to 10 centimeters before dying out (Video 63- 1). At the same time, the gut sometimes relaxes Function of the Myenteric Plexus in Peristalsis. Peri- several centimeters downstream toward the anus, which stalsis occurs only weakly or not at all in
