Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


same time, the gut sometimes relaxes Function of the Myenteric Plexus in Peristalsis. Peri- several centimeters downstream toward the anus, which stalsis occurs only weakly or not at all in any portion of is called “receptive relaxation,” thus allowing the food to the gastrointestinal tract that has congenital absence of be propelled more easily toward the anus than toward the the myenteric plexus. Also, it is greatly depressed or com- mouth. pletely blocked in the entire gut when a person is treated This complex pattern does not occur in the absence of with atropine to paralyze the cholinergic nerve endings of the myenteric plexus. Therefore, the complex is called the the myenteric plexus. Therefore, effectual peristalsis re- myenteric reflex or the peristaltic reflex. The peristaltic quires an active myenteric plexus. reflex plus the anal direction of movement of the peristal- sis is called the “law of the gut.” Peristaltic Waves Move Toward the Anus With Down- stream Receptive Relaxation—“Law of the Gut.” Per- SEGMENTATION CONTRACTIONS— istalsis, theoretically, can occur in either direction from a MIXING MOVEMENTS stimulated point, but it normally dies out rapidly in the orad (toward the mouth) direction while continuing for Mixing movements differ in different parts of the ali- a considerable distance toward the anus. The exact cause mentary tract. In some areas, the peristaltic contractions of this directional transmission of peristalsis is uncertain, cause most of the mixing. This is especially true when for- although it probably results mainly from the fact that ward progression of the intestinal contents is blocked by 793 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology a sphincter so that a peristaltic wave can then only churn Vena cava the intestinal contents, rather than propelling them for- Hepatic Hepatic vein Aorta sinuses ward. At other times, local intermittent segmentation con- tractions occur every few centimeters in the gut wall (see Figure 63- 5B). These constrictions usually last only 5 to 30 seconds; new constrictions then occur at other points Hepatic artery in the gut, thus “chopping” and “shearing” the contents first here and then there. These peristaltic and constric- tive movements are modified in different parts of the gas- trointestinal tract for proper propulsion and mixing, as discussed for each portion of the tract in Chapter 64. Portal Splenic vein GASTROINTESTINAL BLOOD FLOW— vein SPLANCHNIC CIRCULATION The blood vessels of the gastrointestinal system are part of Intestinal vein a more extensive system
