Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the tract in Chapter 64. Portal Splenic vein GASTROINTESTINAL BLOOD FLOW— vein SPLANCHNIC CIRCULATION The blood vessels of the gastrointestinal system are part of Intestinal vein a more extensive system called the splanchnic circulation, Intestinal artery shown in Figure 63- 6. It includes the blood flow through the gut plus blood flows through the spleen, pancreas, and liver. The design of this system is such that all the blood Capillary that courses through the gut, spleen, and pancreas then flows immediately into the liver by way of the portal vein. Figure 63- 6. Splanchnic circulation. In the liver, the blood passes through millions of minute liver sinusoids and finally leaves the liver via hepatic veins the gut, with the tips of these arteries meeting on the side that empty into the vena cava of the general circulation. of the gut wall opposite the mesenteric attachment. From This flow of blood through the liver, before it empties the circling arteries, still much smaller arteries penetrate into the vena cava, allows the reticuloendothelial cells into the intestinal wall and spread (1) along the muscle that line the liver sinusoids to remove bacteria and other bundles, (2) into the intestinal villi, and (3) into submuco- particulate matter that might enter the blood from the sal vessels beneath the epithelium to serve the secretory gastrointestinal tract, thus preventing direct transport of and absorptive functions of the gut. potentially harmful agents into the remainder of the body. Figure 63- 8 shows the special organization of the The nonfat, water- soluble nutrients absorbed from the blood flow through an intestinal villus, including a small gut (e.g., carbohydrates and proteins) are transported in arteriole and venule that interconnect with a system of the portal venous blood to the same liver sinusoids. Here, multiple looping capillaries. The walls of the arterioles both the reticuloendothelial cells and the principal paren- are highly muscular and highly active in controlling villus chymal cells of the liver, the hepatic cells, absorb and store blood flow. temporarily from 50% to 75% of the nutrients. Also, much chemical intermediary processing of these nutrients EFFECT OF GUT ACTIVITY AND occurs in the liver cells. These nutritional functions of the METABOLIC FACTORS ON liver are discussed in Chapters 68 through 72. Almost all GASTROINTESTINAL BLOOD FLOW of the fats absorbed from the intestinal tract are not car- ried in the portal blood but instead are absorbed
