Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in Chapters 68 through 72. Almost all GASTROINTESTINAL BLOOD FLOW of the fats absorbed from the intestinal tract are not car- ried in the portal blood but instead are absorbed into the Under normal conditions, the blood flow in each area of intestinal lymphatics and then conducted to the systemic the gastrointestinal tract, as well as in each layer of the circulating blood by way of the thoracic duct, bypassing gut wall, is directly related to the level of local activity. For the liver. example, during active absorption of nutrients, blood flow in the villi and adjacent regions of the submucosa increases ANATOMY OF THE GASTROINTESTINAL as much as eightfold. Likewise, blood flow in the muscle BLOOD SUPPLY layers of the intestinal wall increases with increased motor activity in the gut. After a meal, the motor activity, secre- Figure 63- 7 shows the general features of the arterial tory activity, and absorptive activity all increase; likewise, blood supply to the gut, including the superior mesenteric the blood flow increases greatly but then decreases back and inferior mesenteric arteries supplying the walls of the to the resting level over another 2 to 4 hours. small and large intestines via an arching arterial system. Not shown in the figure is the celiac artery, which pro- Mechanisms of Increased Blood Flow During Gastro- vides a similar blood supply to the stomach. intestinal Activity. Although the precise causes of the On entering the wall of the gut, the arteries branch and increased blood flow during increased gastrointestinal send smaller arteries circling in both directions around activity are still unclear, some facts are known. 794 Chapter 63 General Principles of Gastrointestinal Function—Motility, Nervous Control, and Blood Circulation Aorta Transverse colon Branch of inferior Middle colic mesenteric Ascending colon Superior mesenteric Right colic Descending colon Ileocolic Jejunum Jejunal Ileal Appendix Ileum Figure 63- 7. Arterial blood supply to the intestines through the mesenteric web. First, several vasodilator substances are released from many of the aforementioned factors plus still others yet the mucosa of the intestinal tract during the digestive undiscovered. process. Most of these substances are peptide hormones, including cholecystokinin, vasoactive intestinal peptide, “Countercurrent” Blood Flow in the Villi. Note in Fig- gastrin, and secretin. These same hormones control spe- ure 63- 8 that the arterial flow into the villus and the ve- cific motor and secretory activities of the gut, as discussed nous flow out
