Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


same hormones control spe- ure 63- 8 that the arterial flow into the villus and the ve- cific motor and secretory activities of the gut, as discussed nous flow out of the villus are in directions opposite to in Chapters 64 and 65. each other and that the vessels lie in close apposition to Second, some of the gastrointestinal glands also release each other. Because of this vascular arrangement, much into the gut wall two kinins, kallidin and bradykinin, at of the blood oxygen diffuses out of the arterioles directly the same time that they secrete other substances into the into the adjacent venules without ever being carried in the lumen. These kinins are powerful vasodilators that are blood to the tips of the villi. As much as 80% of the oxygen believed to cause much of the increased mucosal vasodi- may take this short-c ircuit route and is therefore not avail- lation that occurs along with secretion. able for local metabolic functions of the villi. This type of Third, decreased oxygen concentration in the gut wall countercurrent mechanism in the villi is analogous to the can increase intestinal blood flow at least 50% to 100%; countercurrent mechanism in the vasa recta of the kidney therefore, the increased mucosal and gut wall metabolic medulla, which was discussed in Chapter 29. rate during gut activity probably lowers the oxygen con- Under normal conditions, this shunting of oxygen from centration enough to cause much of the vasodilation. The the arterioles to the venules is not harmful to the villi, but in decrease in oxygen can also lead to as much as a four- disease conditions in which blood flow to the gut becomes fold increase of adenosine, a well- known vasodilator that greatly curtailed, such as in circulatory shock, the oxygen could be responsible for much of the increased flow. deficit in the tips of the villi can become so great that the Thus, the increased blood flow during increased villus tip or even the whole villus undergoes ischemic death gastrointestinal activity is probably a combination of and disintegrates. For this reason and other reasons, in many 795 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Importance of Nervous Depression of Gastrointesti- nal Blood Flow When Other Parts of the Body Need Extra Blood Flow. A major value of sympathetic vaso- constriction in the gut is that it allows shutoff of gastroin- testinal and
