Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


2015. Liddle RA: Interactions of gut endocrine cells with epithelium and stomach and lower colon increases local blood flow at neurons. Compr Physiol 8:1019, 2018. the same time that it increases glandular secretion. This Rao M, Gershon MD: Enteric nervous system development: what increased flow probably results secondarily from the could possibly go wrong? Nat Rev Neurosci 19:552, 2018. increased glandular activity, not as a direct effect of the Sanders KM, Ward SM: Nitric oxide and its role as a non- adrenergic, nervous stimulation. non- cholinergic inhibitory neurotransmitter in the gastrointestinal tract. Br J Pharmacol 176:212, 2019. Sympathetic stimulation, by contrast, has a direct effect Sanders KM, Ward SM, Koh SD: Interstitial cells: regulators of smooth on essentially all the gastrointestinal tract to cause intense muscle function. Physiol Rev 94:859, 2014. vasoconstriction of the arterioles and greatly decreased Schemann M, Frieling T, Enck P: To learn, to remember, to forget- blood flow. After a few minutes of this vasoconstric- How smart is the gut? Acta Physiol (Oxf) 2019 May 7:e13296. doi: tion, the flow often returns to near normal by means of 10.1111/apha.13296. Vergnolle N, Cirillo C: Neurons and glia in the enteric nervous sys- a mechanism called “autoregulatory escape.” That is, the tem and epithelial barrier function. Physiology (Bethesda) 33:269, local metabolic vasodilator mechanisms that are elicited 2018. by ischemia override the sympathetic vasoconstriction, Waise TMZ, Dranse HJ, Lam TKT: The metabolic role of vagal afferent returning toward normal the necessary nutrient blood innervation. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol 15:625, 2018. flow to the gastrointestinal glands and muscle. 796 CHAPTER 6 4 Propulsion and Mixing of Food in the Alimentary Tract The time that food remains in each part of the alimen- initiates a stretch reflex of the jaw muscles that leads to tary tract is critical for optimal processing and absorp- rebound contraction. This action automatically raises the tion of nutrients. In addition, appropriate mixing must jaw to cause closure of the teeth, but it also compresses be provided. Because the requirements for mixing and the bolus again against the linings of the mouth, which propulsion are quite different at each stage of processing, inhibits the jaw muscles once again, allowing the jaw to multiple automatic nervous and hormonal mechanisms drop and rebound another time; this process is repeated control the timing of each of these activities so they will again and again. occur optimally—not too rapidly and not
