Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


mechanisms drop and rebound another time; this process is repeated control the timing of each of these activities so they will again and again. occur optimally—not too rapidly and not too slowly. Chewing is important for digestion of all foods, but This chapter discusses these movements, especially the it is especially important for most fruits and raw vegeta- automatic mechanisms of this control. bles because they have indigestible cellulose membranes around their nutrient portions that must be broken before INGESTION OF FOOD the food can be digested. Furthermore, chewing aids the digestion of food for another simple reason—digestive The amount of food that a person ingests is determined enzymes act only on the surfaces of food particles. There- principally by an intrinsic desire for food called hunger. fore, the rate of digestion depends on the total surface area The type of food that a person preferentially seeks is exposed to the digestive secretions. In addition, grinding determined by appetite. These mechanisms are extremely the food to a very fine particulate consistency prevents important for maintaining an adequate nutritional supply excoriation of the gastrointestinal tract and increases the for the body and are discussed in Chapter 72 in relation to ease with which food is emptied from the stomach into nutrition of the body. The current discussion is confined the small intestine, then into all succeeding segments of to the mechanics of food ingestion, especially mastication the gut. and swallowing. SWALLOWING (DEGLUTITION) MASTICATION (CHEWING) Swallowing is a complicated mechanism, principally The teeth are admirably designed for chewing. The ante- because the pharynx subserves respiration and swallow- rior teeth (incisors) provide a strong cutting action, and ing. The pharynx is converted for only a few seconds at the posterior teeth (molars) provide a grinding action. a time into a tract for propulsion of food. It is especially All the jaw muscles working together can close the teeth important that respiration not be compromised because with a force as great as 55 pounds on the incisors and 200 of swallowing. pounds on the molars. In general, swallowing can be divided into the following Most of the muscles of chewing are innervated by the stages: (1) a voluntary stage, which initiates the swallowing motor branch of the fifth cranial nerve, and the chewing process; (2) a pharyngeal stage, which is involuntary and process is controlled by nuclei in the brain stem. Stimula- constitutes passage
