Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


branch of the fifth cranial nerve, and the chewing process; (2) a pharyngeal stage, which is involuntary and process is controlled by nuclei in the brain stem. Stimula- constitutes passage of food through the pharynx into the tion of specific reticular areas in the brain stem taste cen- esophagus; and (3) an esophageal stage, another involuntary ters will cause rhythmic chewing movements. In addition, phase that transports food from the pharynx to the stomach. stimulation of areas in the hypothalamus, amygdala, and even the cerebral cortex near the sensory areas for taste Voluntary Stage of Swallowing. When the food is ready and smell can cause chewing. for swallowing, it is “voluntarily” squeezed or rolled poste- Much of the chewing process is caused by a chewing riorly into the pharynx by pressure of the tongue u pward reflex. The presence of a bolus of food in the mouth at and backward against the palate, as shown in F igure 64- 1. first initiates reflex inhibition of the muscles of mastica- From here on, swallowing becomes e ntirely—or almost tion, which allows the lower jaw to drop. This drop in turn entirely—automatic and ordinarily cannot be stopped. 797 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Vagus Glossopharyngeal nerve sphincter), relaxes. Thus, food moves easily and freely from the posterior pharynx into the upper es- Trigeminal nerve ophagus. Between swallows, this sphincter remains strongly contracted, thereby preventing air from going into the esophagus during respiration. The Swallowing upward movement of the larynx also lifts the glot- center Bolus of food tis out of the main stream of food flow, so the food Medulla mainly passes on each side of the epiglottis rather Uvula Pharynx than over its surface; this action adds still another protection against entry of food into the trachea. Epiglottis 5. Once the larynx is raised and the pharyngoesopha- Vocal cords geal sphincter becomes relaxed, the entire muscular wall of the pharynx contracts, beginning in the su- perior part of the pharynx, then spreading down- Esophagus ward over the middle and inferior pharyngeal areas, Peristalsis which propels the food by peristalsis into the esoph- agus. To summarize the mechanics of the pharyngeal stage Figure 64- 1. Swallowing mechanism. of swallowing: The trachea is closed, the esophagus is opened, and a fast peristaltic wave initiated by the ner- Involuntary Pharyngeal Stage of Swallowing. As the vous system of the pharynx forces the bolus
