Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is closed, the esophagus is opened, and a fast peristaltic wave initiated by the ner- Involuntary Pharyngeal Stage of Swallowing. As the vous system of the pharynx forces the bolus of food into bolus of food enters the posterior mouth and pharynx, it the upper esophagus, with the entire process occurring in stimulates epithelial swallowing receptor areas all around less than 2 seconds. the opening of the pharynx, especially on the tonsillar pil- lars, and impulses from these areas pass to the brain stem Nervous Initiation of the Pharyngeal Stage of Swal- to initiate a series of automatic pharyngeal muscle con- lowing. The most sensitive tactile areas of the posterior tractions as follows: mouth and pharynx for initiating the pharyngeal stage of 1. The soft palate is pulled upward to close the pos- swallowing lie in a ring around the pharyngeal opening, terior nares to prevent reflux of food into the nasal with greatest sensitivity on the tonsillar pillars. Impulses cavities. are transmitted from these areas through the sensory por- 2. The palatopharyngeal folds on each side of the phar- tions of the trigeminal and glossopharyngeal nerves into ynx are pulled medially to approximate each other. the medulla oblongata, either into or closely associated In this way, these folds form a sagittal slit through with the tractus solitarius, which receives essentially all which the food must pass into the posterior phar- sensory impulses from the mouth. ynx. This slit performs a selective action, allowing The successive stages of the swallowing process are food that has been masticated sufficiently to pass then automatically initiated in orderly sequence by neu- with ease. Because this stage of swallowing lasts less ronal areas of the reticular substance of the medulla and than 1 second, any large object is usually impeded lower portion of the pons. The sequence of the swallow- too much to pass into the esophagus. ing reflex is the same from one swallow to the next, and 3. The vocal cords of the larynx are strongly approxi- the timing of the entire cycle also remains constant from mated, and the larynx is pulled upward and anteri- one swallow to the next. The areas in the medulla and orly by the neck muscles. These actions, combined lower pons that control swallowing are collectively called with the presence of ligaments that prevent upward the deglutition or swallowing center. movement of the epiglottis, cause the
