Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


These actions, combined lower pons that control swallowing are collectively called with the presence of ligaments that prevent upward the deglutition or swallowing center. movement of the epiglottis, cause the epiglottis to The motor impulses from the swallowing center to swing backward over the opening of the larynx. All the pharynx and upper esophagus that cause swallowing these effects acting together prevent passage of food are transmitted successively by the fifth, ninth, tenth, and into the nose and trachea. Most essential is the tight twelfth cranial nerves and even a few of the superior cer- approximation of the vocal cords, but the epiglottis vical nerves. helps to prevent food from ever getting as far as the In summary, the pharyngeal stage of swallowing is vocal cords. Destruction of the vocal cords or of the principally a reflex act. It is almost always initiated by muscles that approximate them can cause strangu- voluntary movement of food into the back of the mouth, lation. which in turn excites involuntary pharyngeal sensory 4. The upward movement of the larynx also pulls up receptors to elicit the swallowing reflex. and enlarges the opening to the esophagus. At the same time, the upper 3 to 4 centimeters of the es- The Pharyngeal Stage of Swallowing Momentarily ophageal muscular wall, called the upper esopha- Interrupts Respiration. The entire pharyngeal stage of geal sphincter (also called the pharyngoesophageal swallowing usually occurs in less than 6 seconds, there- 798 Chapter 64 Propulsion and Mixing of Food in the Alimentary Tract by interrupting respiration for only a fraction of a usual stomach and, to a lesser extent, even the duodenum be- respiratory cycle. The swallowing center specifically in- come relaxed as this wave reaches the lower end of the hibits the respiratory center of the medulla during this esophagus and thus are prepared ahead of time to receive time, halting respiration at any point in its cycle to allow the food propelled into the esophagus during the swal- swallowing to proceed. Yet, even while a person is talking, lowing act. swallowing interrupts respiration for such a short time that it is hardly noticeable. Function of the Lower Esophageal Sphincter (Gas- troesophageal Sphincter). At the lower end of the es- The Esophageal Stage of Swallowing Involves Two ophagus, extending upward about 3 centimeters above its Types of Peristalsis. The esophagus functions primarily juncture with the stomach, the esophageal circular mus-
