Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


The Esophageal Stage of Swallowing Involves Two ophagus, extending upward about 3 centimeters above its Types of Peristalsis. The esophagus functions primarily juncture with the stomach, the esophageal circular mus- to conduct food rapidly from the pharynx to the stom- cle functions as a broad lower esophageal sphincter, also ach, and its movements are organized specifically for this called the gastroesophageal sphincter. This sphincter nor- function. mally remains tonically constricted with an intraluminal The esophagus normally exhibits two types of peristal- pressure at this point in the esophagus of about 30 mm tic movements: primary peristalsis and secondary peri- Hg, in contrast to the midportion of the esophagus, which stalsis. Primary peristalsis is simply continuation of the normally remains relaxed. When a peristaltic swallow- peristaltic wave that begins in the pharynx and spreads ing wave passes down the esophagus, “receptive relaxa- into the esophagus during the pharyngeal stage of swal- tion” of the lower esophageal sphincter occurs ahead of lowing. This wave passes all the way from the pharynx to the peristaltic wave, which allows easy propulsion of the the stomach in about 8 to 10 seconds. Food swallowed by swallowed food into the stomach. Rarely, the sphincter a person who is in the upright position is usually transmit- does not relax satisfactorily, resulting in a condition called ted to the lower end of the esophagus even more rapidly achalasia. This condition is discussed in Chapter 67. than the peristaltic wave itself, in about 5 to 8 seconds, The stomach secretions are highly acidic and con- because of the additional effect of gravity pulling the food tain many proteolytic enzymes. The esophageal mucosa, downward. except in the lower one-eighth of the esophagus, is not If the primary peristaltic wave fails to move all the food capable of resisting the digestive action of gastric secre- that has entered the esophagus into the stomach, second- tions for long. Fortunately, the tonic constriction of the ary peristaltic waves result from distention of the esopha- lower esophageal sphincter helps prevent significant gus by the retained food; these waves continue until all reflux of stomach contents into the esophagus except the food has emptied into the stomach. The secondary under abnormal conditions. peristaltic waves are initiated partly by intrinsic neural circuits in the myenteric nervous system and partly by Prevention of Esophageal Reflux by Valvelike Clo- reflexes that begin in the pharynx and are then
