Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


initiated partly by intrinsic neural circuits in the myenteric nervous system and partly by Prevention of Esophageal Reflux by Valvelike Clo- reflexes that begin in the pharynx and are then transmit- sure of the Distal End of the Esophagus. Another fac- ted upward through vagal afferent fibers to the medulla tor that helps prevent reflux is a valvelike mechanism of a and back again to the esophagus through glossopharyn- short portion of the esophagus that extends slightly into geal and vagal efferent nerve fibers. the stomach. Increased intra-a bdominal pressure caves The musculature of the pharyngeal wall and upper the esophagus inward at this point. Thus, this valvelike third of the esophagus is striated muscle. Therefore, the closure of the lower esophagus helps to prevent high peristaltic waves in these regions are controlled by skel- intra- abdominal pressure from forcing stomach contents etal nerve impulses from the glossopharyngeal and vagus backward into the esophagus. Otherwise, whenever we nerves. In the lower two-thirds of the esophagus, the mus- walk, cough, or breathe hard, stomach acid might be ex- culature is smooth muscle, but this portion of the esopha- pelled into the esophagus. gus is also strongly controlled by the vagus nerves that act through connections with the esophageal myenteric MOTOR FUNCTIONS OF THE STOMACH nervous system. When the vagus nerves to the esopha- gus are cut, the myenteric nerve plexus of the esophagus The motor functions of the stomach are threefold: (1) becomes excitable enough after several days to cause storage of large quantities of food until the food can be strong secondary peristaltic waves even without support processed in the stomach, duodenum, and lower intesti- from the vagal reflexes. Therefore, even after paralysis of nal tract; (2) mixing of this food with gastric secretions the brain stem swallowing reflex, food fed by tube or in until it forms a semifluid mixture called chyme; and (3) some other way into the esophagus still passes readily into slow emptying of the chyme from the stomach into the the stomach. small intestine at a rate suitable for proper digestion and absorption by the small intestine. Receptive Relaxation of the Stomach. When the es- Figure 64- 2 shows the basic anatomy of the stomach. ophageal peristaltic wave approaches the stomach, a wave Anatomically, the stomach is usually divided into two of relaxation, transmitted through myenteric inhibitory major parts: (1) the body and (2) the
