Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ophageal peristaltic wave approaches the stomach, a wave Anatomically, the stomach is usually divided into two of relaxation, transmitted through myenteric inhibitory major parts: (1) the body and (2) the antrum. Physiologi- neurons, precedes the peristalsis. Furthermore, the entire cally, it is more appropriately divided into (1) the “orad” 799 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Fundus the stomach into the antrum, they become more intense, Esophagus some becoming extremely intense and providing power- ful peristaltic action potential–driven constrictor rings Cardia that force the antral contents under higher and higher pressure toward the pylorus. These constrictor rings also play an important role in mixing the stomach contents in the following way: Each time a peristaltic wave passes down the antral wall toward the pylorus, it digs deeply into the food contents Duodenum Pyloris in the antrum. Yet, the opening of the pylorus is still small Angular enough that only a few milliliters or less of antral con- notch tents are expelled into the duodenum with each peristal- Body tic wave. Also, as each peristaltic wave approaches the pylorus, the pyloric muscle often contracts, which further Pyloric impedes emptying through the pylorus. Therefore, most sphincter Rugae of the antral contents are squeezed upstream through the peristaltic ring toward the body of the stomach, not Antrum through the pylorus. Thus, the moving peristaltic con- Figure 64- 2. Physiological anatomy of the stomach. strictive ring, combined with this upstream squeezing action, called “retropulsion,” is an exceedingly important portion, comprising about the first two-thirds of the body, mixing mechanism in the stomach. and (2) the “caudad” portion, comprising the remainder of the body plus the antrum. Chyme. After food in the stomach has become thorough- ly mixed with the stomach secretions, the resulting mix- STORAGE FUNCTION OF THE STOMACH ture that passes down the gut is called chyme. The degree of fluidity of the chyme leaving the stomach depends on As food enters the stomach, it forms concentric circles of the relative amounts of food, water, and stomach secre- the food in the orad portion of the stomach, with the new- tions and on the degree of digestion that has occurred. est food lying closest to the esophageal opening and the The appearance of chyme is that of a murky semifluid or oldest food lying nearest the outer wall of the stomach. paste. Normally, when food stretches the stomach, a “vagova- gal reflex” from
