Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


chyme is that of a murky semifluid or oldest food lying nearest the outer wall of the stomach. paste. Normally, when food stretches the stomach, a “vagova- gal reflex” from the stomach to the brain stem and then Hunger Contractions. Besides the peristaltic contrac- back to the stomach reduces the tone in the muscular wall tions that occur when food is present in the stomach, an- of the body of the stomach so that the wall bulges pro- other type of intense contractions, called hunger contrac- gressively outward, accommodating greater and greater tions, often occurs when the stomach has been empty for quantities of food up to a limit in the completely relaxed several hours or more. These contractions are rhythmic stomach of 0.8 to 1.5 liters. The pressure in the stomach peristaltic contractions in the body of the stomach. When remains low until this limit is approached. the successive contractions become extremely strong, they often fuse to cause a continuing tetanic contraction FOOD MIXING AND PROPULSION IN THE that sometimes lasts for 2 to 3 minutes. STOMACH—BASIC ELECTRICAL RHYTHM Hunger contractions are most intense in young, healthy OF THE STOMACH WALL people who have high degrees of gastrointestinal tonus; they are also greatly increased by the person’s having lower The digestive juices of the stomach are secreted by gas- than normal levels of blood sugar. When hunger contrac- tric glands, which are present in almost the entire wall tions occur in the stomach, the person sometimes experi- of the body of the stomach except along a narrow strip ences mild pain in the pit of the stomach, called hunger on the lesser curvature of the stomach. These secretions pangs. Hunger pangs usually do not begin until 12 to 24 come immediately into contact with that portion of the hours after the last ingestion of food; in people who are in stored food lying against the mucosal surface of the stom- a state of starvation, they reach their greatest intensity in 3 ach. As long as food is in the stomach, weak peristaltic to 4 days and gradually weaken in succeeding days. constrictor waves, called mixing waves, begin in the mid to upper portions of the stomach wall and move toward STOMACH EMPTYING the antrum about once every 15 to 20 seconds. These waves are initiated by the gut wall basic electrical rhythm, Stomach emptying is promoted by intense peristaltic
