Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


toward STOMACH EMPTYING the antrum about once every 15 to 20 seconds. These waves are initiated by the gut wall basic electrical rhythm, Stomach emptying is promoted by intense peristaltic which was discussed in Chapter 63, consisting of electri- contractions in the stomach antrum. At the same time, cal “slow waves” that occur spontaneously in the stomach emptying is opposed by varying degrees of resistance to wall. As the constrictor waves progress from the body of passage of chyme at the pylorus. 800 Chapter 64 Propulsion and Mixing of Food in the Alimentary Tract Intense Antral Peristaltic Contractions During Stom- stomach wall does elicit local myenteric reflexes in the ach Emptying—“Pyloric Pump.” Most of the time, the wall that greatly accentuate activity of the pyloric pump rhythmic stomach contractions are weak and function and at the same time inhibit the pylorus. mainly to cause mixing of food and gastric secretions. However, for about 20% of the time while food is in the The Hormone Gastrin Promotes Stomach Emptying. stomach, the contractions become intense, beginning in In Chapter 65, we discuss how stretching of the stom- midstomach and spreading through the caudad stom- ach wall and the presence of certain types of foods in the ach. These contractions are strong peristaltic, very tight stomach—particularly digestive products of meat—elicit ringlike constrictions that can cause stomach emptying. release of the hormone gastrin from the G cells of the an- As the stomach becomes progressively more and more tral mucosa. This has potent effects to cause secretion of empty, these constrictions begin farther and farther up highly acidic gastric juice by the stomach glands. Gastrin the body of the stomach, gradually pinching off the food also has mild to moderate stimulatory effects on motor in the body of the stomach and adding this food to the functions in the body of the stomach. Most important, it chyme in the antrum. These intense peristaltic contrac- seems to enhance the activity of the pyloric pump. Thus, tions often create 50 to 70 centimeters of water pressure, gastrin likely promotes stomach emptying. which is about six times as powerful as the usual mixing Powerful Duodenal Factors That Inhibit type of peristaltic waves. Stomach Emptying When pyloric tone is normal, each strong peristaltic wave forces up to several milliliters of chyme into the Duodenum Enterogastric Nervous Reflexes Inhibit duodenum. Thus, the peristaltic waves, in addition to Stomach Emptying.
