Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is normal, each strong peristaltic wave forces up to several milliliters of chyme into the Duodenum Enterogastric Nervous Reflexes Inhibit duodenum. Thus, the peristaltic waves, in addition to Stomach Emptying. When food enters the duodenum, causing mixing in the stomach, also provide a pumping multiple nervous reflexes are initiated from the duodenal action called the “pyloric pump.” wall. These reflexes pass back to the stomach to slow or even stop stomach emptying if the volume of chyme in Role of the Pylorus in Controlling Stomach Emptying. the duodenum becomes too much. These reflexes are me- The distal opening of the stomach is the pylorus. Here diated by three routes: (1) directly from the duodenum the thickness of the circular wall muscle becomes 50% to to the stomach through the enteric nervous system in 100% greater than in the earlier portions of the stomach the gut wall; (2) through extrinsic nerves that go to the antrum, and it remains slightly tonically contracted al- prevertebral sympathetic ganglia and then back through most all the time. Therefore, the pyloric circular muscle is inhibitory sympathetic nerve fibers to the stomach; and called the pyloric sphincter. (3) probably to a slight extent through the vagus nerves all Despite normal tonic contraction of the pyloric the way to the brain stem, where they inhibit the normal sphincter, the pylorus usually is open enough for water excitatory signals transmitted to the stomach through the and other fluids to empty from the stomach into the duo- vagi. All these parallel reflexes have two effects on stom- denum with ease. Yet, the constriction usually prevents ach emptying. First, they strongly inhibit the “pyloric passage of food particles until they have become mixed in pump” propulsive contractions, and second, they increase the chyme to almost fluid consistency. The degree of con- the tone of the pyloric sphincter. striction of the pylorus is increased or decreased under The types of factors that are continually monitored in the influence of nervous and hormonal signals from both the duodenum and can initiate enterogastric inhibitory the stomach and the duodenum, as discussed shortly. reflexes include the following: 1. Distention of the duodenum REGULATION OF STOMACH EMPTYING 2. The presence of any irritation of the duodenal mu- cosa The rate at which the stomach empties is regulated by sig- 3. Acidity of the duodenal chyme nals from the stomach and the duodenum. However, the 4.
