Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


duodenal mu- cosa The rate at which the stomach empties is regulated by sig- 3. Acidity of the duodenal chyme nals from the stomach and the duodenum. However, the 4. Osmolality of the chyme duodenum provides far more potent signals, controlling 5. The presence of certain breakdown products in the the emptying of chyme into the duodenum at a rate no chyme, especially breakdown products of proteins greater than the rate at which the chyme can be digested and, perhaps to a lesser extent, of fats and absorbed in the small intestine. The enterogastric inhibitory reflexes are especially sen- sitive to the presence of irritants and acids in the duode- Gastric Factors That Promote Emptying nal chyme, and they often become strongly activated in Effect of Gastric Food Volume on Rate of Empty- as little as 30 seconds. For example, whenever the pH of ing. Increased food volume in the stomach promotes in- the chyme in the duodenum falls below about 3.5 to 4, the creased emptying from the stomach. However, it is not reflexes frequently block further release of acidic stomach increased storage pressure of the food in the stomach contents into the duodenum until the duodenal chyme that causes the increased emptying because, in the usual can be neutralized by pancreatic and other secretions. normal range of volume, the increase in volume does not Breakdown products of protein digestion also elicit increase the pressure much. However, stretching of the inhibitory enterogastric reflexes; by slowing the rate of 801 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology stomach emptying, sufficient time is ensured for adequate stomach peristalsis. Probably the more important control protein digestion in the duodenum and small intestine. of stomach emptying resides in inhibitory feedback sig- Finally, either hypotonic fluids or, especially, hyper- nals from the duodenum, including both enterogastric tonic fluids elicit the inhibitory reflexes. Thus, flow of inhibitory nervous feedback reflexes and hormonal feed- nonisotonic fluids into the small intestine at too rapid a back by CCK. These feedback inhibitory mechanisms rate is prevented, thereby also preventing rapid changes in work together to slow the rate of emptying when (1) too electrolyte concentrations in the whole-b ody extracellular much chyme is already in the small intestine or (2) the fluid during absorption of the intestinal contents. chyme is excessively acidic, contains too much unpro- cessed protein or fat, is hypotonic or hypertonic, or is Hormonal Feedback From
