Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


(2) the fluid during absorption of the intestinal contents. chyme is excessively acidic, contains too much unpro- cessed protein or fat, is hypotonic or hypertonic, or is Hormonal Feedback From the Duodenum Inhibits irritating. In this way, the rate of stomach emptying is Gastric Emptying—Role of Fats and the Hormone limited to the amount of chyme that the small intestine Cholecystokinin. Hormones released from the upper in- can process. testine also inhibit stomach emptying. The stimulus for releasing these inhibitory hormones is mainly fats enter- MOVEMENTS OF THE SMALL INTESTINE ing the duodenum, although other types of foods can in- crease the hormones to a lesser degree. Movements of the small intestine, like those elsewhere in On entering the duodenum, the fats extract several dif- the gastrointestinal tract, can be divided into mixing con- ferent hormones from the duodenal and jejunal epithe- tractions and propulsive contractions. To a great extent, lium, either by binding with “receptors” on the epithelial this separation is artificial because essentially all move- cells or in some other way. In turn, the hormones are car- ments of the small intestine cause at least some degree ried via the blood to the stomach, where they inhibit the of both mixing and propulsion. The usual classification of pyloric pump and at the same time increase the strength these processes is described in the following sections. of contraction of the pyloric sphincter. These effects are important because fats are much slower to be digested MIXING CONTRACTIONS (SEGMENTATION than most other foods. CONTRACTIONS) The most potent of these hormones appears to be cho- lecystokinin (CCK), which is released from the mucosa of When a portion of the small intestine becomes distended the jejunum in response to fatty substances in the chyme. with chyme, stretching of the intestinal wall elicits local- This hormone acts as an inhibitor to block increased ized concentric contractions spaced at intervals along the stomach motility caused by gastrin. intestine and lasting a fraction of a minute. The contrac- Other possible inhibitors of stomach emptying are the tions cause “segmentation” of the small intestine, as shown hormones secretin and glucose- dependent insulinotro- in Figure 64- 3 and Figure 63- 5—that is, they divide the pic peptide, also called gastric inhibitory peptide (GIP). intestine into spaced segments that have the appearance Secretin is released mainly from the duodenal mucosa in of a chain of sausages. As one set
