Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


called gastric inhibitory peptide (GIP). intestine into spaced segments that have the appearance Secretin is released mainly from the duodenal mucosa in of a chain of sausages. As one set of segmentation con- response to gastric acid passed from the stomach through tractions relaxes, a new set often begins, but the contrac- the pylorus. GIP has a general but weak effect of decreas- tions this time occur mainly at new points between the ing gastrointestinal motility. previous contractions. Therefore, the segmentation con- GIP is released from the upper small intestine mainly tractions “chop” the chyme two to three times per minute, in response to fat in the chyme, but also to a lesser extent in this way promoting progressive mixing of the food with in response to carbohydrates. Although GIP inhibits gas- secretions of the small intestine. tric motility under some conditions, its main effect at The maximum frequency of the segmentation contrac- physiological concentrations is probably mainly to stimu- tions in the small intestine is determined by the frequency late secretion of insulin by the pancreas. These hormones are discussed at greater length else- where in this text, especially in Chapter 65 in relation to control of gallbladder emptying and control of the rate of Regularly spaced pancreatic secretion. In summary, hormones, especially CCK, scan inhibit gastric emptying when excess quantities of chyme, espe- Isolated cially acidic or fatty chyme, enter the duodenum from the stomach. Summary of the Control of Stomach Irregularly spaced Emptying Emptying of the stomach is controlled only to a moder- ate degree by stomach factors such as the degree of fill- Weak regularly spaced ing in the stomach and the excitatory effect of gastrin on Figure 64- 3. Segmentation movements of the small intestine. 802 Chapter 64 Propulsion and Mixing of Food in the Alimentary Tract of electrical slow waves in the intestinal wall, which is the intensifies as additional chyme enters the duodenum. basic electrical rhythm described in Chapter 63. Because On reaching the ileocecal valve, the chyme is sometimes this frequency normally is not greater than 12 per minute blocked for several hours until the person eats another in the duodenum and proximal jejunum, the maximum meal; at that time, a gastroileal reflex intensifies peristalsis frequency of the segmentation contractions in these areas in the ileum and forces the remaining chyme through the is also about 12 per minute, but this maximum
