Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


reflex intensifies peristalsis frequency of the segmentation contractions in these areas in the ileum and forces the remaining chyme through the is also about 12 per minute, but this maximum frequency ileocecal valve into the cecum of the large intestine. occurs only under extreme conditions of stimulation. In the terminal ileum, the maximum frequency is usually Propulsive Effect of the Segmentation Movements. eight to nine contractions per minute. The segmentation movements, although lasting for only a The segmentation contractions become exceedingly few seconds at a time, often also travel 1 centimeter or so weak when the excitatory activity of the enteric nervous in the anal direction, and during that time they help pro- system is blocked by the drug atropine. Therefore, even pel the food down the intestine. The difference between though it is the slow waves in the smooth muscle that the segmentation and the peristaltic movements is not as cause the segmentation contractions, these contractions great as might be implied by their separation into these are not effective without background excitation mainly two classifications. from the myenteric nerve plexus. Powerful, Rapid Peristalsis—“Peristaltic Rush.” Al- PROPULSIVE MOVEMENTS though peristalsis in the small intestine is normally weak, intense irritation of the intestinal mucosa, as occurs in Peristalsis in the Small Intestine. Chyme is propelled some severe cases of infectious diarrhea, can cause both through the small intestine by peristaltic waves, as dis- powerful and rapid peristalsis, called the peristaltic rush. cussed in Chapter 63 and illustrated in Figure 63- 5. These This phenomenon is initiated partly by nervous reflexes waves can occur in any part of the small intestine and that involve the autonomic nervous system and brain move toward the anus at a velocity of 0.5 to 2.0 cm/sec— stem and partly by intrinsic enhancement of the myen- faster in the proximal intestine and slower in the terminal teric plexus reflexes in the gut wall. The powerful peristal- intestine. They are normally weak and usually die out after tic contractions travel long distances in the small intestine traveling only 3 to 5 centimeters. The waves rarely travel within minutes, sweeping the contents of the intestine farther than 10 centimeters, so forward movement of the into the colon and thereby relieving the small intestine of chyme is very slow—so slow that net movement along irritative chyme and excessive distention. the small intestine normally averages only 1 cm/min. This rate of
