Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


relieving the small intestine of chyme is very slow—so slow that net movement along irritative chyme and excessive distention. the small intestine normally averages only 1 cm/min. This rate of travel means that 3 to 5 hours are required for pas- Movements Caused by the Muscularis Mucosae and sage of chyme from the pylorus to the ileocecal valve. Muscle Fibers of the Villi. The muscularis mucosae can cause short folds to appear in the intestinal mucosa. In ad- Control of Peristalsis by Nervous and Hormonal Sig- dition, individual fibers from this muscle extend into the nals. Peristaltic activity of the small intestine increases intestinal villi and cause them to contract intermittently. The mucosal folds increase the surface area exposed to the markedly after a meal. This increased activity is caused chyme, thereby increasing absorption. Also, contractions partly by the beginning entry of chyme into the duode- of the villi—shortening, elongating, and shortening again— num, causing stretch of the duodenal wall. In addition, “milk” the villi so that lymph flows freely from the central peristaltic activity is increased by the gastroenteric reflex lacteals of the villi into the lymphatic system. These mu- that is initiated by distention of the stomach and con- cosal and villous contractions are initiated mainly by local ducted principally through the myenteric plexus from the nervous reflexes in the submucosal nerve plexus that occur stomach down along the wall of the small intestine. in response to chyme in the small intestine. In addition to the nervous signals that may affect small intestinal peristalsis, several hormonal factors also affect THE ILEOCECAL VALVE PREVENTS peristalsis. These factors include gastrin, CCK, insulin, BACKFLOW FROM THE COLON TO THE motilin, and serotonin, all of which enhance intestinal SMALL INTESTINE motility and are secreted during various phases of food processing. Conversely, secretin and glucagon inhibit As shown in Figure 64- 4, the ileocecal valve protrudes small intestinal motility. The physiological importance of into the lumen of the cecum and therefore is forcefully each of these hormonal factors for controlling motility is closed when excess pressure builds up in the cecum and still questionable. tries to push cecal contents backward against the valve The function of the peristaltic waves in the small intes- lips. The valve usually can resist reverse pressure of at tine is not only to cause progression of chyme toward the least 50 to 60 centimeters of water. ileocecal valve
