Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


lips. The valve usually can resist reverse pressure of at tine is not only to cause progression of chyme toward the least 50 to 60 centimeters of water. ileocecal valve but also to spread out the chyme along the In addition, the wall of the ileum for several centime- intestinal mucosa. As the chyme enters the intestines from ters immediately upstream from the ileocecal valve has the stomach and elicits peristalsis, the peristalsis immedi- a thickened circular muscle called the ileocecal sphincter. ately spreads the chyme along the intestine, and this process This sphincter normally remains mildly constricted and 803 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Semi- Mush mush Colon Pressure and chemical Semifluid irritation relax sphincter and excite peristalsis Poor motility causes Ileocecal greater absorption, and sphincter Fluidity of contents Fluid hard feces in transverse promotes emptying colon cause Semi- constipation solid Ileocecal valve Valve Ileum Solid Pressure or chemical irritation Excess motility causes in cecum inhibits peristalsis less absorption and of ileum and excites sphincter diarrhea or loose feces Figure 64- 5. Absorptive and storage functions of the large intestine. Figure 64- 4. Emptying at the ileocecal valve. wall movements are not required for these functions, the slows emptying of ileal contents into the cecum. However, movements of the colon are normally sluggish. Yet, in immediately after a meal, a gastroileal reflex (described a sluggish manner, the movements still have character- earlier) intensifies peristalsis in the ileum, and emptying istics similar to those of the small intestine and can be of ileal contents into the cecum proceeds. divided once again into mixing movements and propul- Resistance to emptying at the ileocecal valve prolongs sive movements. the stay of chyme in the ileum and thereby facilitates absorption. Normally, only 1500 to 2000 ml of chyme Mixing Movements—“Haustrations.” In the same empty into the cecum each day. manner that segmentation movements occur in the small intestine, large circular constrictions occur in the Feedback Control of the Ileocecal Sphincter by Re- large intestine. At each of these constrictions, about 2.5 flexes From the Cecum. The degree of contraction of centimeters of the circular muscle contract, sometimes the ileocecal sphincter and the intensity of peristalsis in constricting the lumen of the colon almost to occlusion. the terminal ileum are controlled significantly by reflexes At the same time, the longitudinal muscle of the colon, from the cecum. When the cecum is distended, contrac-
