Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


almost to occlusion. the terminal ileum are controlled significantly by reflexes At the same time, the longitudinal muscle of the colon, from the cecum. When the cecum is distended, contrac- which is aggregated into three longitudinal strips called tion of the ileocecal sphincter becomes intensified and the teniae coli, contracts. These combined contractions of ileal peristalsis is inhibited, both of which greatly delay the circular and longitudinal strips of muscle cause the emptying of additional chyme into the cecum from the unstimulated portion of the large intestine to bulge out- ileum. Also, any irritant in the cecum delays emptying. ward into baglike sacs called haustrations. For example, when a person has an inflamed appendix, Each haustration usually reaches peak intensity in the irritation of this vestigial remnant of the cecum can about 30 seconds and then disappears during the next 60 cause such intense spasm of the ileocecal sphincter and seconds. At times they also move slowly toward the anus partial paralysis of the ileum that these effects together during contraction, especially in the cecum and ascending block emptying of the ileum into the cecum. The reflexes colon, and thereby provide a minor amount of forward from the cecum to the ileocecal sphincter and ileum are propulsion of the colonic contents. After another few mediated both by way of the myenteric plexus in the gut minutes, new haustral contractions occur in other areas wall and of the extrinsic autonomic nerves, especially by nearby. Therefore, the fecal material in the large intestine way of the prevertebral sympathetic ganglia. is slowly dug into and rolled over in much the same man- ner that one spades the earth. In this way, all the fecal material is gradually exposed to the mucosal surface of MOVEMENTS OF THE COLON the large intestine, and fluid and dissolved substances are The principal functions of the colon are (1) absorp- progressively absorbed until only 80 to 200 ml of feces are tion of water and electrolytes from the chyme to form expelled each day. solid feces and (2) storage of fecal matter until it can be expelled. The proximal half of the colon, shown in Propulsive Movements—“Mass Movements.” Much Figure 64-5 , is concerned principally with absorption, of the propulsion in the cecum and ascending colon re- and the distal half with storage. Because intense colon sults from the slow but persistent haustral contractions, 804 Chapter 64 Propulsion
