Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the propulsion in the cecum and ascending colon re- and the distal half with storage. Because intense colon sults from the slow but persistent haustral contractions, 804 Chapter 64 Propulsion and Mixing of Food in the Alimentary Tract requiring as many as 8 to 15 hours to move the chyme From conscious Descending from the ileocecal valve through the colon, while the cortex colon chyme becomes fecal in quality—a semisolid instead of a Afferent semifluid slush. nerve fibers From the cecum to the sigmoid, mass movements can, for many minutes at a time, take over the propulsive role. Parasympathetic These movements usually occur only one to three times nerve fibers (pelvic nerves) each day, in many people especially for about 15 minutes during the first hour after eating breakfast. A mass movement is a modified type of peristalsis characterized by the following sequence of events. First, a Sigmoid constrictive ring occurs in response to a distended or irri- colon tated point in the colon, usually in the transverse colon. Then, rapidly, the 20 or more centimeters of colon distal Skeletal Rectum motor nerve to the constrictive ring lose their haustrations and instead contract as a unit, propelling the fecal material in this seg- External anal sphincter ment en masse further down the colon. The contraction develops progressively more force for about 30 seconds, Internal anal sphincter and relaxation occurs during the next 2 to 3 minutes. Figure 64- 6. Afferent and efferent pathways of the parasympathetic Another mass movement then occurs, this time perhaps mechanism for enhancing the defecation reflex. farther along the colon. A series of mass movements usually persists for 10 to 30 minutes. They then cease but return perhaps a half day sphincter, composed of striated voluntary muscle that later. When they have forced a mass of feces into the rec- both surrounds the internal sphincter and extends distal tum, the desire for defecation is felt. to it. The external sphincter is controlled by nerve fibers in the pudendal nerve, which is part of the somatic nervous Initiation of Mass Movements by Gastrocolic and system and therefore is under voluntary, conscious, or at Duodenocolic Reflexes. The appearance of mass move- least subconscious control; subconsciously, the external ments after meals is facilitated by gastrocolic and duode- sphincter is usually kept continuously constricted unless nocolic reflexes. These reflexes result from distention of conscious signals inhibit the constriction. the stomach
