Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


after meals is facilitated by gastrocolic and duode- sphincter is usually kept continuously constricted unless nocolic reflexes. These reflexes result from distention of conscious signals inhibit the constriction. the stomach and duodenum. They occur either not at all or hardly at all when the extrinsic autonomic nerves to Defecation Reflexes. Ordinarily, defecation is initiated the colon have been removed; therefore, the reflexes al- by defecation reflexes. One of these reflexes is an intrin- most certainly are transmitted by way of the autonomic sic reflex mediated by the local enteric nervous system nervous system. in the rectal wall. When feces enter the rectum, disten- Irritation in the colon can also initiate intense mass tion of the rectal wall initiates afferent signals that spread movements. For example, a person who has an ulcerated through the myenteric plexus to initiate peristaltic waves condition of the colon mucosa (ulcerative colitis) frequently in the descending colon, sigmoid, and rectum, forcing has mass movements that persist almost all the time. feces toward the anus. As the peristaltic wave approaches the anus, the internal anal sphincter is relaxed by inhibi- DEFECATION tory signals from the myenteric plexus; if the external anal sphincter is also consciously, voluntarily relaxed at the Most of the time, the rectum is empty of feces, partly same time, defecation occurs. because a weak functional sphincter exists about 20 centi- Normally when the intrinsic myenteric defecation meters from the anus at the juncture between the sigmoid reflex is functioning by itself, it is relatively weak. To be colon and the rectum. A sharp angulation is also present effective in causing defecation, it usually must be fortified here that contributes additional resistance to filling of the by another type of defecation reflex called a parasympa- rectum. thetic defecation reflex that involves the sacral segments When a mass movement forces feces into the rectum, of the spinal cord, shown in Figure 64- 6. When the nerve the desire for defecation occurs immediately, including endings in the rectum are stimulated, signals are trans- reflex contraction of the rectum and relaxation of the anal mitted first into the spinal cord and then reflexly back to sphincters. the descending colon, sigmoid, rectum, and anus via para- Continual dribble of fecal matter through the anus is sympathetic nerve fibers in the pelvic nerves. These para- prevented by tonic constriction of the following: (1) an sympathetic signals greatly intensify the peristaltic
