Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fecal matter through the anus is sympathetic nerve fibers in the pelvic nerves. These para- prevented by tonic constriction of the following: (1) an sympathetic signals greatly intensify the peristaltic waves internal anal sphincter, which is a several- centimeters- and relax the internal anal sphincter, thus converting the long thickening of the circular smooth muscle that lies intrinsic myenteric defecation reflex from a weak effort immediately inside the anus; and (2) an external anal into a powerful process of defecation that is sometimes 805 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology effective in emptying the large bowel all the way from the Bibliography splenic flexure of the colon to the anus. Browning KN, Travagli RA: Central nervous system control of gastro- Defecation signals entering the spinal cord initiate intestinal motility and secretion and modulation of gastrointestinal other effects, such as taking a deep breath, closure of the functions. Compr Physiol 4:1339, 2014. glottis, and contraction of the abdominal wall muscles to Camilleri M: Physiological underpinnings of irritable bowel syndrome: neurohormonal mechanisms. J Physiol 592:2967, 2014. force the fecal contents of the colon downward, and at the Farré R, Tack J: Food and symptom generation in functional gas- same time they cause the pelvic floor to relax downward trointestinal disorders: physiological aspects. Am J Gastroenterol and pull outward on the anal ring to evaginate the feces. 108:698, 2013. When it becomes convenient for the person to defe- Ford AC, Lacy BE, Talley NJ: Irritable bowel syndrome. N Engl J Med cate, the defecation reflexes can purposely be activated by 376:2566, 2017. Furness JB: The enteric nervous system and neurogastroenterology. taking a deep breath to move the diaphragm downward Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol 9:286, 2012. and then contracting the abdominal muscles to increase Gracie DJ, Hamlin PJ, Ford AC: The influence of the brain- gut axis the pressure in the abdomen, thus forcing fecal contents in inflammatory bowel disease and possible implications for treat- into the rectum to cause new reflexes. Reflexes initiated in ment. Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol 4:632, 2019. this way are almost never as effective as those that arise Hockley JRF, Smith ESJ, Bulmer DC: Human visceral nociception: find- ings from translational studies in human tissue. Am J Physiol Gas- naturally, and thus people who too often inhibit their trointest Liver Physiol 315:G464, 2018. natural reflexes are likely to become severely constipated. Huizinga JD, Lammers WJ: Gut peristalsis is governed by
