Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and thus people who too often inhibit their trointest Liver Physiol 315:G464, 2018. natural reflexes are likely to become severely constipated. Huizinga JD, Lammers WJ: Gut peristalsis is governed by a multitude In newborns and in some people with transected spinal of cooperating mechanisms. Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol cords, the defecation reflexes cause automatic emptying 296:G1, 2009. of the lower bowel at inconvenient times during the day Kumral D, Zfass AM: Gut movements: a review of the physiology of gastrointestinal transit. Dig Dis Sci 63:2500, 2018. because of lack of conscious control exercised through Lang IM, Medda BK, Shaker R: Characterization and mechanism of voluntary contraction or relaxation of the external anal the esophago- esophageal contractile reflex of the striated mus- sphincter. cle esophagus. Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol 317:G304, 2019. Mittal RK: Regulation and dysregulation of esophageal peristalsis by OTHER AUTONOMIC REFLEXES THAT the integrated function of circular and longitudinal muscle lay- AFFECT BOWEL ACTIVITY ers in health and disease. Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol 311:G431, 2016. Aside from the duodenocolic, gastrocolic, gastroileal, Ouyang A, Regan J, McMahon BP: Physiology of the upper segment, enterogastric, and defecation reflexes that have been dis- body, and lower segment of the esophagus. Ann N Y Acad Sci cussed in this chapter, several other important nervous 1300:261, 2013. Sanders KM, Ward SM, Koh SD: Interstitial cells: regulators of smooth reflexes also can affect the overall degree of bowel activ- muscle function. Physiol Rev 94:859, 2014. ity. They are the peritoneointestinal reflex, renointestinal Spencer NJ, Dinning PG, Brookes SJ, Costa M: Insights into the mech- reflex, and vesicointestinal reflex. anisms underlying colonic motor patterns. J Physiol 594:4099, The peritoneointestinal reflex results from irritation of 2016. the peritoneum; it strongly inhibits the excitatory enteric Szarka LA, Camilleri M: Methods for measurement of gastric motility. Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol 296:G461, 2009. nerves and thereby can cause intestinal paralysis, espe- cially in patients with peritonitis. The renointestinal and vesicointestinal reflexes inhibit intestinal activity as a result of kidney or bladder irritation, respectively. 806 CHAPTER 6 5 Secretory Functions of the Alimentary Tract Throughout the gastrointestinal tract, secretory glands Fourth, also associated with the alimentary tract are subserve two primary functions: (1) digestive enzymes several complex glands—the salivary glands, pancreas, are secreted in most areas of the alimentary tract, from and liver—that provide secretions for digestion or emul- the mouth to the
