Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


digestive enzymes several complex glands—the salivary glands, pancreas, are secreted in most areas of the alimentary tract, from and liver—that provide secretions for digestion or emul- the mouth to the distal end of the ileum; and (2) mucous sification of food. The liver has a highly specialized struc- glands located from the mouth to the anus provide mucus ture that is discussed in Chapter 71. The salivary glands for lubrication and protection of all parts of the alimen- and the pancreas are compound acinous glands of the tary tract. type shown in Figure 65- 2. These glands lie outside the Most digestive secretions are formed in response to walls of the alimentary tract and, in this aspect, they differ the presence of food in the alimentary tract, and the from all other alimentary glands. They contain millions of quantity secreted in each segment of the tract is usually acini lined with secreting glandular cells; these acini feed the amount needed for proper digestion. Furthermore, into a system of ducts that finally empty into the alimen- in some portions of the gastrointestinal tract, even the tary tract. types of enzymes and other constituents of the secre- tions are varied in accordance with the types of food BASIC MECHANISMS OF STIMULATION OF present. In this chapter we describe the different alimen- THE ALIMENTARY TRACT GLANDS tary secretions, their functions, and regulation of their Contact of Food With Gut Epithelium production. Activates the Enteric Nervous System and Stimulates Secretion GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF ALIMENTARY TRACT SECRETION The presence of food in a particular segment of the gastro- intestinal tract usually stimulates the glands of that region TYPES OF ALIMENTARY TRACT GLANDS and adjacent regions to secrete moderate to large quanti- ties of juices. Part of this local effect, especially the secre- Several types of glands provide the different types of tion of mucus by mucous cells, results from direct contact alimentary tract secretions. First, on the surface of the stimulation of the surface glandular cells by the food. epithelium in most parts of the gastrointestinal tract are billions of single- cell mucous glands called simply mucous Nerve Endoplasmic Golgi cells or sometimes goblet cells because they look like gob- Capillary fiber reticulum apparatus lets. They function mainly in response to local irritation Secretion of the epithelium: They extrude mucus directly onto the epithelial surface to act as a lubricant that also protects the surfaces
