Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


They function mainly in response to local irritation Secretion of the epithelium: They extrude mucus directly onto the epithelial surface to act as a lubricant that also protects the surfaces from excoriation and digestion. Second, many surface areas of the gastrointestinal tract are lined by pits that represent invaginations of the epi- thelium into the submucosa. In the small intestine, these pits, called crypts of Lieberkühn, are deep and contain specialized secretory cells. One of these cells is shown in Figure 65- 1. Third, in the stomach and upper duodenum are large numbers of deep tubular glands. A typical tubular gland Basement Mitochondria Ribosomes Zymogen can be seen in Figure 65- 4, which shows an acid- and membrane granules pepsinogen- secreting gland of the stomach (oxyntic Figure 65-1 . Typical function of a glandular cell for formation and gland). secretion of enzymes and other secretory substances. 807 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Regulation of Glandular Secretion by Hormones. In Primary secretion: the stomach and intestine, several different gastrointes- 1. Ptyalin 2. Mucus tinal hormones help regulate the volume and composi- 3. Extracellular fluid tion of the secretions. These hormones are liberated from the gastrointestinal mucosa in response to the presence of food in the lumen of the gut. The hormones are then absorbed into the blood and carried to the glands, where Na+ active absorption they stimulate secretion. This type of stimulation is par- Cl− passive absorption ticularly valuable to increase the output of gastric juice K+ active secretion and pancreatic juice when food enters the stomach or HCO − secretion 3 duodenum. Chemically, the gastrointestinal hormones are poly- peptides or polypeptide derivatives and will be discussed in more detail later. Saliva BASIC MECHANISM OF SECRETION BY Figure 65- 2. Formation and secretion of saliva by a submandibular GLANDULAR CELLS salivary gland. Secretion of Organic Substances. Although all the ba- sic mechanisms by which glandular cells function are not In addition, local epithelial stimulation also activates known, experimental evidence points to the following the enteric nervous system of the gut wall. The types of principles of secretion, as shown in Figure 65- 1. stimuli that activate this system are (1) tactile stimulation, 1. The nutrient material needed for formation of the (2) chemical irritation, and (3) distention of the gut wall. secretion must first diffuse or be actively transport- The resulting nervous reflexes stimulate the mucous cells ed by
