Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the (2) chemical irritation, and (3) distention of the gut wall. secretion must first diffuse or be actively transport- The resulting nervous reflexes stimulate the mucous cells ed by the blood in the capillaries into the base of the on the gut epithelial surface and the deep glands in the gut glandular cell. wall to increase their secretion. 2. Many mitochondria located inside the glandular cell Autonomic Stimulation of Secretion near its base use oxidative energy to form adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Parasympathetic Stimulation Increases Alimentary 3. Energy from the ATP, along with appropriate sub- Tract Glandular Secretion Rate. Stimulation of the strates provided by the nutrients, is then used to parasympathetic nerves to the alimentary tract almost synthesize the organic secretory substances; this invariably increases the rates of alimentary glandular se- synthesis occurs almost entirely in the endoplasmic cretion. This increased secretion rate is especially true of reticulum and Golgi complex of the glandular cell. the glands in the upper portion of the tract (innervated by Ribosomes adherent to the reticulum are specifi- the glossopharyngeal and vagus parasympathetic nerves) cally responsible for formation of proteins that are such as the salivary glands, esophageal glands, gastric secreted. glands, pancreas, and Brunner's glands in the duodenum. 4. The secretory materials are transported through It is also true of some glands in the distal portion of the the tubules of the endoplasmic reticulum, passing large intestine, which are innervated by pelvic parasym- in about 20 minutes all the way to the vesicles of the pathetic nerves. Secretion in the remainder of the small Golgi complex. intestine and in the first two-thirds of the large intestine 5. In the Golgi complex, the materials are modified, occurs mainly in response to local neural and hormonal added to, concentrated, and discharged into the cy- stimuli in each segment of the gut. toplasm in the form of secretory vesicles, which are Sympathetic Stimulation Has a Dual Effect on Ali- stored in the apical ends of the secretory cells. mentary Tract Glandular Secretion Rate. Stimulation of 6. These vesicles remain stored until nervous or hor- the sympathetic nerves going to the gastrointestinal tract monal control signals cause the cells to extrude the causes a slight to moderate increase in secretion by some vesicular contents through the cells' surface. This of the local glands. However, sympathetic stimulation also action probably occurs in the following way. The constricts the
