Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


increase in secretion by some vesicular contents through the cells' surface. This of the local glands. However, sympathetic stimulation also action probably occurs in the following way. The constricts the blood vessels that supply the glands. There- hormone binds to its receptor and, through one of fore, sympathetic stimulation can have a dual effect: (1) several possible cell signaling mechanisms, increas- sympathetic stimulation alone usually slightly increases es the cell membrane permeability to calcium ions. secretion, and (2) if parasympathetic or hormonal stimu- Calcium enters the cell and causes many of the vesi- lation is already causing copious secretion by the glands, cles to fuse with the apical cell membrane. The api- superimposed sympathetic stimulation usually reduces cal cell membrane then breaks open, thus empty- secretion, sometimes significantly, mainly because of va- ing the vesicles to the exterior; this process is called soconstrictive reduction of the blood supply. exocytosis. 808 Chapter 65 Secretory Functions of the Alimentary Tract Water and Electrolyte Secretion. A second necessity Table 65- 1 Daily Alimentary Tract Secretions Juices for glandular secretion is secretion of sufficient water Type of Secretion Daily Volume (ml) pH and electrolytes to go along with the organic substances. Saliva 1000 6.0–7.0 Secretion by the salivary glands, discussed in more de- Gastric secretion 1500 1.0–3.5 tail later, provides an example of how nervous stimula- tion causes water and salts to pass through the glandular Pancreatic secretion 1000 8.0–8.3 cells in great profusion, washing the organic substances Bile 1000 7.8 through the secretory border of the cells at the same time. Small intestine secretion 1800 7.5–8.0 Hormones acting on the cell membrane of some glan- Brunner's gland secretion 200 8.0–8.9 dular cells also cause secretory effects similar to those Large intestinal secretion 200 7.5–8.0 caused by nervous stimulation. Total 6700 Lubricating and Protective Properties of Mucus in the Gastrointestinal Tract secretion that contains mucin for lubricating and for sur- Mucus is a thick secretion composed mainly of water, face protective purposes. electrolytes, and a mixture of several glycoproteins that The parotid glands secrete almost entirely the serous are composed of large polysaccharides bound with much type of secretion, whereas the submandibular and sub- smaller quantities of protein. Mucus is slightly different in lingual glands secrete both serous secretion and mucus. different parts of the gastrointestinal tract, but in all lo- cations it has several important characteristics that make The buccal glands secrete only
