Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


glands secrete both serous secretion and mucus. different parts of the gastrointestinal tract, but in all lo- cations it has several important characteristics that make The buccal glands secrete only mucus. Saliva has a pH it both an excellent lubricant and a protectant for the gut between 6.0 and 7.0, which is a favorable range for the wall: digestive action of ptyalin. 1. Mucus has adherent qualities that make it adhere tightly Secretion of Ions in Saliva. Saliva contains especially to the food or other particles and to spread as a thin film large quantities of K+ and HCO −. Conversely, the con- over the surfaces. 3 2. It has sufficient body that it coats the wall of the gut and centrations of both Na+ and Cl− are several times less in prevents actual contact of most food particles with the saliva than in plasma. One can understand these special mucosa. concentrations of ions in the saliva from the following de- 3. Mucus has a low resistance for slippage, so the particles scription of the mechanism for secretion of saliva. can slide along the epithelium with great ease. Figure 65- 2 shows secretion by the submandibular 4. Mucus causes fecal particles to adhere to one another to gland, a typical compound gland that contains acini and form the feces that are expelled during a bowel move- salivary ducts. Salivary secretion is a two- stage operation. ment. The first stage involves the acini, and the second stage 5. Mucus is strongly resistant to digestion by the gastroin- involves the salivary ducts. The acini secrete a primary testinal enzymes. secretion that contains ptyalin and/or mucin in a solu- 6. The glycoproteins of mucus have amphoteric properties, tion of ions with concentrations not greatly different from which means that they are capable of buffering small amounts of either acids or alkalies; also, mucus often those of typical extracellular fluid. As the primary secre- contains moderate quantities of HCO −, which specifi- tion flows through the ducts, two major active transport 3 cally neutralize acids. processes take place that markedly modify the ionic com- Thus, mucus has the ability to allow easy slippage of position of the fluid in the saliva. food along the gastrointestinal tract and to prevent exco- First, Na+ is actively reabsorbed from all the salivary riative or chemical damage to the epithelium. A person be- ducts and K+ is actively
