Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


gastrointestinal tract and to prevent exco- First, Na+ is actively reabsorbed from all the salivary riative or chemical damage to the epithelium. A person be- ducts and K+ is actively secreted in exchange for Na+. comes acutely aware of the lubricating qualities of mucus Therefore, Na+ concentration of the saliva becomes greatly when the salivary glands fail to secrete saliva, because then reduced, whereas K+ concentration becomes increased. it is difficult to swallow solid food even when it is eaten However, there is excess Na+ reabsorption compared along with large amounts of water. with K+ secretion, which creates electrical negativity of about −70 millivolts in the salivary ducts; this negativity SECRETION OF SALIVA in turn causes Cl− to be reabsorbed passively. Therefore, Cl− concentration in the salivary fluid falls to a very low Saliva Contains a Serous Secretion and a Mucus Se- level, matching the ductal decrease in Na+ concentration. cretion. The principal glands of salivation are the parotid, Second, HCO − is secreted by the ductal epithelium 3 submandibular, and sublingual glands; in addition, there into the lumen of the duct. This secretion is at least partly are many tiny buccal glands. Daily secretion of saliva nor- caused by passive exchange of bicarbonate for Cl−, but it mally ranges between 800 and 1500 ml, as shown by the may also result partly from an active secretory process. average value of 1000 ml in Table 65- 1. The net result of these transport processes is that under Saliva contains two major types of protein secretion: resting conditions, the concentrations of Na+ and Cl− in (1) a serous secretion that contains ptyalin (an α- amylase), saliva are only about 15 mEq/L each, about one-seventh which is an enzyme for digesting starches, and (2) mucus to one-tenth their concentrations in plasma. Conversely, 809 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology K+ concentration is about 30 mEq/L, seven times as great Superior and inferior salivatory nuclei as in plasma, and HCO 3− concentration is 50 to 70 mEq/L, Tractus Submandibular about two to three times that of plasma. solitarius gland Submandibular During maximal salivation, the salivary ionic concentra- ganglion tions change considerably because the formation rate of pri- mary secretion by the acini can increase as much as 20-f old. Facial This acinar secretion then flows through the ducts so rapidly nerve that the ductal reconditioning of the secretion is consider- Chorda ably reduced.
