Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


increase as much as 20-f old. Facial This acinar secretion then flows through the ducts so rapidly nerve that the ductal reconditioning of the secretion is consider- Chorda ably reduced. Therefore, when copious quantities of saliva tympani Sublingual are being secreted, the sodium chloride concentration is gland about one-half or two-thirds that of plasma, and potassium concentration rises to only four times that of plasma. Parotid gland Function of Saliva for Oral Hygiene. Under basal awake Glossopharyngeal Otic ganglion conditions, about 0.5 ml of saliva, almost entirely of the mu- nerve cous type, is secreted each minute; however, during sleep, little secretion occurs. This secretion plays an exceedingly important role for maintaining healthy oral tissues. The mouth is loaded with pathogenic bacteria that can easily Tongue Taste stimuli destroy tissues and cause dental caries. Saliva helps prevent Figure 65- 3. Parasympathetic nervous regulation of salivary secretion. the deteriorative processes in several ways: 1. The flow of saliva helps wash away pathogenic bacte- ria, as well as food particles that provide their metabolic when a person smells or eats favorite foods, salivation support. 2. Saliva contains several factors that destroy bacteria. is greater than when food that is disliked is smelled or One of these is thiocyanate ions and another is several eaten. The appetite area of the brain, which partially proteolytic enzymes—most important, lysozyme—that regulates these effects, is located in proximity to the (a) attack the bacteria, (b) aid thiocyanate ions in enter- parasympathetic centers of the anterior hypothalamus, ing the bacteria where these ions in turn become bacte- and it functions to a great extent in response to signals ricidal, and (c) digest food particles, thus helping further from the taste and smell areas of the cerebral cortex or to remove the bacterial metabolic support. amygdala. 3. Saliva often contains significant amounts of antibodies Salivation also occurs in response to reflexes origi- that can destroy oral bacteria, including some that cause nating in the stomach and upper small intestines—par- dental caries. In the absence of salivation, oral tissues ticularly when irritating foods are swallowed or when a often become ulcerated and otherwise infected, and person is nauseated because of some gastrointestinal caries of the teeth can become rampant. abnormality. The saliva, when swallowed, helps to remove NERVOUS REGULATION OF SALIVARY the irritating factor in the gastrointestinal tract by diluting SECRETION or neutralizing the irritant substances. Sympathetic stimulation can also
