Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


The saliva, when swallowed, helps to remove NERVOUS REGULATION OF SALIVARY the irritating factor in the gastrointestinal tract by diluting SECRETION or neutralizing the irritant substances. Sympathetic stimulation can also increase salivation Figure 65- 3 shows the parasympathetic nervous path- a slight amount—much less so than parasympathetic ways for regulating salivation and demonstrates that the stimulation. Also, the saliva formed in response to sym- salivary glands are controlled mainly by parasympathetic pathetic activity is thicker compared to saliva produced nervous signals all the way from the superior and inferior during increased parasympathetic activity. The sympa- salivatory nuclei in the brain stem. thetic nerves originate from the superior cervical ganglia The salivatory nuclei are located approximately at and travel along the surfaces of the blood vessel walls to the juncture of the medulla and pons and are excited the salivary glands. by both taste and tactile stimuli from the tongue and A secondary factor that also affects salivary secre- other areas of the mouth and pharynx. Many taste tion is the blood supply to the glands because secretion stimuli, especially the sour taste (caused by acids), always requires adequate nutrients from the blood. The elicit copious secretion of saliva—often 8 to 20 times parasympathetic nerve signals that induce copious saliva- the basal rate of secretion. Also, certain tactile stimuli, tion also moderately dilate the blood vessels. In addition, such as the presence of smooth objects in the mouth salivation directly dilates the blood vessels, thus provid- (e.g., a pebble), cause marked salivation, whereas rough ing increased salivatory gland nutrition as needed by the objects cause less salivation and occasionally even secreting cells. Part of this additional vasodilator effect inhibit salivation. is caused by kallikrein secreted by the activated salivary Salivation can also be stimulated or inhibited by ner- cells, which in turn acts as an enzyme to split one of the vous signals arriving in the salivatory nuclei from higher blood proteins, an α - globulin, to form bradykinin, a 2 centers of the central nervous system. For example, strong vasodilator. 810 Chapter 65 Secretory Functions of the Alimentary Tract Esophageal Secretion Gastric pit Esophageal secretions are entirely mucous and mainly pro- Mucus layer vide lubrication for swallowing. The main body of the es- ophagus is lined with many simple mucous glands. At the gastric end and to a lesser extent in the initial portion of the esophagus, many compound mucous
