Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the es- ophagus is lined with many simple mucous glands. At the gastric end and to a lesser extent in the initial portion of the esophagus, many compound mucous glands can also be found. The mucus secreted by the compound glands in the Surface upper esophagus prevents mucosal excoriation by newly epithelium entering food, whereas the compound glands located near the esophagogastric junction protect the esophageal wall from digestion by acidic gastric juices that often reflux from the stomach back into the lower esophagus. Despite Mucous neck cells this protection, a peptic ulcer at times can still occur at the gastric end of the esophagus. Oxyntic GASTRIC SECRETION (parietal) cells In addition to mucus- secreting cells that line the entire surface of the stomach, the stomach mucosa has two ECL cell important types of tubular glands—oxyntic glands (also called gastric glands) and pyloric glands. The oxyntic (acid- forming) glands secrete hydrochloric acid, pepsino- gen, intrinsic factor, and mucus. The pyloric glands secrete Peptic (chief) mainly mucus for protection of the pyloric mucosa from cells the stomach acid. They also secrete the hormone gastrin. The oxyntic glands are located on the inside surfaces of the body and fundus of the stomach—the proximal 80% of the stomach. The pyloric glands are located in the antral portion of the stomach—the distal 20% of the stomach. Figure 65- 4. Gastric (oxyntic) gland from the body of the stomach. ECL, Enterochromaffin- like cells. Secretions From the Gastric (Oxyntic) Glands A typical stomach oxyntic gland is shown in Figure 65- 4. It is composed of three main types of cells: (1) mucous Mucous neck cells, which secrete mainly mucus; (2) peptic (or chief) neck cells cells, which secrete large quantities of pepsinogen; and (3) parietal (or oxyntic) cells, which secrete hydrochloric acid and intrinsic factor. Oxyntic glands also contain some additional cells types, including the enterochromaffin- like (ECL) cells that secrete histamine. Oxyntic Secretion of hydrochloric acid by the parietal cells (parietal) Secretion cell involves special mechanisms, as follows. Basic Mechanism of Hydrochloric Acid Secretion. Canaliculi When stimulated, the parietal cells secrete an acid so- lution that contains about 160 mmol/L of hydrochloric acid, which is nearly isotonic with the body fluids. The pH of this acid is about 0.8, demonstrating its extreme acid- ity. At this pH, the H+ concentration is about 3 million times that of the arterial blood. To concentrate the H+
