Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


this acid is about 0.8, demonstrating its extreme acid- ity. At this pH, the H+ concentration is about 3 million times that of the arterial blood. To concentrate the H+ this tremendous amount requires more than 1500 calories of Figure 65- 5. Schematic anatomy of the canaliculi in a parietal (ox- energy/L of gastric juice. At the same time that H+ is se- yntic) cell. creted, HCO − diffuses into the blood so that gastric ve- 3 nous blood has a higher pH than arterial blood when the stomach is secreting acid. canaliculi. The hydrochloric acid is formed at the villus- Figure 65- 5 shows schematically the functional struc- like projections inside these canaliculi and is then con- ture of a parietal cell (also called an oxyntic cell), dem- ducted through the canaliculi to the secretory end of the onstrating that it contains large branching intracellular cell. 811 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Thus, the final secretion from the canaliculus con- Interstitial Parietal cell Lumen of fluid canaliculus tains water, hydrochloric acid at a concentration of about 150 to 160 mEq/L, potassium chloride at a CO CO 2 2 concentration of 15 mEq/L, and a small amount of sodium chloride. HCO 3– HCO 3– CO 2 + H+ (155 mEq/L) To produce a concentration of H+ as great as that OH– + H+ Cl– Cl– found in gastric juice requires minimal backleak into the ATP mucosa of the secreted acid. A major part of the stomach's H O 2 ability to prevent backleak of acid can be attributed to the K+ K+ K+ K+ (15 mEq/L) gastric barrier due to the formation of alkaline mucus and ATP to tight junctions between epithelia cells, as described later. If this barrier is damaged by toxic substances, such Na+ Na+ Na+ (3 mEq/L) as occurs with excessive use of aspirin or alcohol, the secreted acid does leak down an electrochemical gradient Cl– Cl– Cl– Cl– (173 mEq/L) into the mucosa, causing stomach mucosal damage. (Osmosis) The Basic Factors That Stimulate Gastric Secretion H O H O 2 2 Are Acetylcholine, Gastrin, and Histamine. Acetylcho- line released by parasympathetic stimulation excites se- Figure 65- 6. Postulated mechanism for secretion of hydrochloric cretion of pepsinogen by peptic cells, hydrochloric acid by acid. (The points labeled “ATP” [adenosine triphosphate] indicate active pumps, and the dashed lines represent free diffusion and parietal cells, and mucus by
