Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


pepsinogen by peptic cells, hydrochloric acid by acid. (The points labeled “ATP” [adenosine triphosphate] indicate active pumps, and the dashed lines represent free diffusion and parietal cells, and mucus by mucous cells. In comparison, osmosis.) both gastrin and histamine strongly stimulate acid secre- tion by parietal cells but have little effect on the other cells. The main driving force for hydrochloric acid secretion Secretion and Activation of Pepsinogen. Several by the parietal cells is a hydrogen- potassium pump (H+- K+ slightly different types of pepsinogen are secreted by the adenosine triphosphatase [ATPase]). The chemical mech- peptic and mucous cells of the gastric glands, but all the anism of hydrochloric acid formation is shown in Figure pepsinogens perform the same basic functions. 65- 6 and consists of the following steps: When pepsinogen is first secreted, it has no digestive 1. Water inside the parietal cell becomes dissociated activity. However, as soon as it comes in contact with into H+ and hydroxide (OH−) in the cell cytoplasm. hydrochloric acid, it is activated to form active pepsin. In The H+ is then actively secreted into the canaliculus this process, the pepsinogen molecule, having a molecu- in exchange for K+, an active exchange process that lar weight of about 42,500, is split to form a pepsin mol- is catalyzed by H+- K+ ATPase. Potassium ions trans- ecule, having a molecular weight of about 35,000. ported into the cell by the Na+- K+ ATPase pump on Pepsin functions as an active proteolytic enzyme in a the basolateral (extracellular) side of the membrane highly acidic medium (optimum pH, 1.8–3.5), but above tend to leak into the lumen but are recycled back a pH of about 5 it has almost no proteolytic activity and into the cell by the H+- K+ ATPase. The basolateral becomes completely inactivated in a short time. Hydro- Na+- K+ ATPase creates low intracellular Na+, which chloric acid is as necessary as pepsin for protein digestion contributes to Na+ reabsorption from the lumen of in the stomach, as discussed in Chapter 66. the canaliculus. Thus, most of the K+ and Na+ in the Secretion of Intrinsic Factor by Parietal Cells. The canaliculus is reabsorbed into the cell cytoplasm, substance intrinsic factor, which is essential for vitamin and H+ takes their place in the canaliculus. B absorption in the ileum, is secreted by the parietal 2. The pumping of H+ out of the cell
