Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


essential for vitamin and H+ takes their place in the canaliculus. B absorption in the ileum, is secreted by the parietal 2. The pumping of H+ out of the cell by the H+- K+ AT- 12 cells along with the secretion of hydrochloric acid. When Pase permits OH− to accumulate and form HCO − 3 the acid- producing parietal cells of the stomach are de- from CO , either formed during metabolism in the 2 stroyed, which frequently occurs in persons with chronic cell or while entering the cell from the blood. This gastritis, not only does achlorhydria (lack of stomach acid reaction is catalyzed by carbonic anhydrase. The secretion) develop, but pernicious anemia also often de- HCO − is then transported across the basolateral 3 velops because of failure of red blood cell maturation in membrane into the extracellular fluid in exchange the absence of vitamin B stimulation of the bone mar- for Cl− ions, which enter the cell and are secreted 12 row. This condition is discussed in Chapter 33. through chloride channels into the canaliculus, giv- ing a strong solution of hydrochloric acid in the PYLORIC GLANDS SECRETE MUCUS AND canaliculus. The hydrochloric acid is then secreted GASTRIN outward through the open end of the canaliculus into the lumen of the gland. The pyloric glands are structurally similar to the oxyntic 3. Water passes into the canaliculus by osmosis be- glands but contain few peptic cells and almost no pari- cause of extra ions secreted into the canaliculus. etal cells. Instead, they contain mostly mucous cells that 812 Chapter 65 Secretory Functions of the Alimentary Tract are identical with the mucous neck cells of the oxyntic end of the stomach. Gastrin is a large polypeptide se- glands. These cells secrete a small amount of pepsinogen, creted in two forms—a large form called G- 34, which as discussed earlier, and an especially large amount of thin contains 34 amino acids, and a smaller form, G- 17, which mucus that helps to lubricate food movement, as well as contains 17 amino acids. Although both of these forms to protect the stomach wall from digestion by the gastric are important, the smaller form is more abundant. enzymes. The pyloric glands also secrete the hormone When meats or other foods containing protein reach gastrin, which plays a key role in controlling gastric secre- the antral end of the stomach, some of
