Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


also secrete the hormone When meats or other foods containing protein reach gastrin, which plays a key role in controlling gastric secre- the antral end of the stomach, some of the proteins from tion, as we discuss shortly. these foods have a special stimulatory effect on the gas- trin cells in the pyloric glands to cause release of gastrin SURFACE MUCOUS CELLS into the blood to be transported to the ECL cells of the stomach. The vigorous mixing of the gastric juices trans- The entire surface of the stomach mucosa between glands ports the gastrin rapidly to the ECL cells in the body of has a continuous layer of a special type of mucous cells the stomach, causing release of histamine directly into the called simply “surface mucous cells.” They secrete large deep oxyntic glands. The histamine then acts quickly to quantities of viscid mucus that coats the stomach mucosa stimulate gastric hydrochloric acid secretion. with a gel layer of mucus often more than 1 millimeter thick, thus providing a major shell of protection for the REGULATION OF PEPSINOGEN SECRETION stomach wall, as well as contributing to lubrication of food transport. Stimulation of pepsinogen secretion by the peptic cells in Another characteristic of this mucus is that it is alka- the oxyntic glands occurs in response to two main types line. Therefore, the normal underlying stomach wall is not of signals: (1) acetylcholine released from the vagus nerves directly exposed to the highly acidic, proteolytic stomach or from the gastric enteric nervous plexus, and (2) acid secretion. Even the slightest contact with food or any in the stomach. The acid probably does not stimulate the irritation of the mucosa directly stimulates the surface peptic cells directly but instead elicits additional enteric mucous cells to secrete additional quantities of this thick, nervous reflexes that support the original nervous signals alkaline, viscid mucus. to the peptic cells. Therefore, the rate of secretion of pep- sinogen, the precursor of the enzyme pepsin that causes STIMULATION OF GASTRIC ACID protein digestion, is strongly influenced by the amount of SECRETION acid in the stomach. In people who have lost the ability to secrete normal amounts of acid, secretion of pepsinogen Parietal Cells of the Oxyntic Glands Are the Only is also decreased, even though the peptic cells may other- Cells That Secrete Hydrochloric Acid. As noted earlier wise appear to be normal. in the chapter,
