Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Glands Are the Only is also decreased, even though the peptic cells may other- Cells That Secrete Hydrochloric Acid. As noted earlier wise appear to be normal. in the chapter, the acidity of the fluid secreted by the pa- rietal cells of the oxyntic glands can be great, with pH as Phases of Gastric Secretion low as 0.8. However, secretion of this acid is under con- Gastric secretion is said to occur in three “phases” (as tinuous control by both endocrine and nervous signals. shown in Figure 65- 7): a cephalic phase, a gastric phase, Furthermore, parietal cells operate in close association and an intestinal phase. with another type of cell called enterochromaffin- like cells Cephalic Phase. The cephalic phase of gastric secre- (ECL cells), the primary function of which is to secrete tion occurs even before food enters the stomach, especial- histamine. ly while it is being eaten. It results from the sight, smell, The ECL cells lie in the deep recesses of the oxyntic thought, or taste of food, and the greater the appetite, the glands and therefore release histamine in direct contact more intense is the stimulation. Neurogenic signals that cause the cephalic phase of gastric secretion originate in with the parietal cells of the glands. The formation and the cerebral cortex and in the appetite centers of the amyg- secretion rates of hydrochloric acid by the parietal cells dala and hypothalamus. They are transmitted through the are directly related to the amount of histamine secreted dorsal motor nuclei of the vagi and thence through the va- by the ECL cells. In turn, the ECL cells are stimulated gus nerves to the stomach. This phase of secretion normally to secrete histamine by the hormone gastrin, which is accounts for about 30% of the gastric secretion associated formed almost entirely in the antral portion of the stom- with eating a meal. ach mucosa in response to proteins in the foods being Gastric Phase. Once food enters the stomach, it ex- digested. The ECL cells may also be stimulated by hor- cites the following: (1) long vagovagal reflexes from the mones secreted by the enteric nervous system of the stomach to the brain and back to the stomach; (2) lo- stomach wall. We will first discuss the gastrin mechanism cal enteric reflexes; and (3) the gastrin mechanism, all for control of the ECL cells and their subsequent control of
