Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


lo- stomach wall. We will first discuss the gastrin mechanism cal enteric reflexes; and (3) the gastrin mechanism, all for control of the ECL cells and their subsequent control of which cause secretion of gastric juice during several of parietal cell secretion of hydrochloric acid. hours while food remains in the stomach. The gastric phase of secretion accounts for about 60% of the to- Stimulation of Acid Secretion by Gastrin. Gastrin is tal gastric secretion associated with eating a meal and a hormone secreted by gastrin cells, also called G cells. therefore accounts for most of the total daily gastric se- These cells are located in the pyloric glands in the distal cretion of about 1500 ml. 813 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Vagal center of medulla Cephalic phase via vagus Parasympathetics excite pepsin and acid production Food Secretory fiber Gastric phase: 1. Local nervous Afferent Vagus Local nerve secretory reflexes fibers trunk plexus 2. Vagal reflexes 3. Gastrin-histamine stimulation Circulatory system Gastrin Intestinal phase: 1. Nervous mechanisms Figure 65- 7. Phases of gastric se- 2. Hormonal mechanisms cretion and their regulation. Small bowel Intestinal Phase. The presence of food in the upper por- inhibitory hormones usually also reduce stomach motility tion of the small intestine, particularly in the duodenum, at the same time that they reduce gastric secretion, as dis- will continue to cause stomach secretion of small amounts cussed in Chapter 64. of gastric juice, probably partly because of small amounts Gastric Secretion During the Interdigestive Period. The of gastrin released by the duodenal mucosa. This secretion stomach secretes a few milliliters of gastric juice each hour accounts for about 10% of the acid response to a meal. during the “interdigestive period,” when little or no digestion is occurring anywhere in the gut. The secretion that does Inhibition of Gastric Secretion by Other Intestinal Factors occur is usually almost entirely of the nonoxyntic type, com- Although intestinal chyme slightly stimulates gastric secre- posed mainly of mucus but little pepsin and almost no acid. tion during the early intestinal phase of stomach secretion, Emotional stimuli may increase interdigestive gastric it paradoxically inhibits gastric secretion at other times. secretion (which is highly peptic and acidic) to 50 ml or This inhibition results from at least two influences. more per hour, in much the same way that the cephalic 1. The presence of food in the small intestine initiates a
