Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


This inhibition results from at least two influences. more per hour, in much the same way that the cephalic 1. The presence of food in the small intestine initiates a phase of gastric secretion excites secretion at the onset of reverse enterogastric reflex, transmitted through the my- a meal. This increase of secretion in response to emotional enteric nervous system and extrinsic sympathetic and stimuli may contribute to the development of peptic ulcers, vagus nerves, that inhibits stomach secretion. This re- as discussed in Chapter 67. flex can be initiated by (a) distending the small bowel, Chemical Composition of Gastrin and Other Gastroin- (b) the presence of acid in the upper intestine, (c) the testinal Hormones presence of protein breakdown products, or (d) irrita- tion of the mucosa. This reflex is part of the complex Gastrin, cholecystokinin (CCK), and secretin are all large poly- mechanism discussed in Chapter 64 for slowing stom- peptides with approximate molecular weights of 2000, 4200, ach emptying when the intestines are already filled. and 3400, respectively. The terminal five amino acids in the 2. The presence of acid, fat, protein breakdown products, gastrin and CCK molecular chains are the same. The function- hyperosmotic or hypo-o smotic fluids, or any irritat- al activity of gastrin resides in the terminal four amino acids, ing factor in the upper small intestine causes release of and the activity for CCK resides in the terminal eight amino several intestinal hormones. One of these hormones is acids. All the amino acids in the secretin molecule are essential. secretin, which is especially important for control of pan- A synthetic gastrin, pentagastrin, is composed of the creatic secretion. However, secretin opposes stomach se- terminal four amino acids of natural gastrin plus the amino cretion. Three other hormones—glucose- dependent insu- acid alanine, has all the same physiological properties as the linotropic peptide (gastric inhibitory peptide), vasoactive natural gastrin. intestinal polypeptide, and somatostatin—also have slight to moderate effects in inhibiting gastric secretion. PANCREATIC SECRETION The purpose of intestinal factors that inhibit gastric se- cretion is presumably to slow passage of chyme from the The pancreas, which lies parallel to and beneath the stom- stomach when the small intestine is already filled or already ach (illustrated in Figure 65- 10), is a large compound overactive. In fact, the enterogastric inhibitory reflexes plus 814 Chapter 65 Secretory Functions of the Alimentary Tract gland, and most of its
