Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in Figure 65- 10), is a large compound overactive. In fact, the enterogastric inhibitory reflexes plus 814 Chapter 65 Secretory Functions of the Alimentary Tract gland, and most of its internal structure is similar to that contact with the mucosa. Trypsinogen also can be auto- of the salivary glands shown in Figure 65- 2. The pancre- catalytically activated by trypsin that has already been atic digestive enzymes are secreted by pancreatic acini, formed from previously secreted trypsinogen. Chymo- and large volumes of sodium bicarbonate solution are trypsinogen is activated by trypsin to form chymotryp- secreted by the small ductules and larger ducts leading sin, and procarboxypolypeptidase is activated in a similar from the acini. The combined product of enzymes and manner. sodium bicarbonate then flows through a long pancreatic Secretion of Trypsin Inhibitor Prevents Digestion of duct that normally joins the hepatic duct immediately the Pancreas. It is important that the proteolytic en- before it empties into the duodenum through the papilla zymes of the pancreatic juice not become activated until of Vater, surrounded by the sphincter of Oddi. after they have been secreted into the intestine because Pancreatic juice is secreted most abundantly in the trypsin and the other enzymes would digest the pan- response to the presence of chyme in the upper portions creas. Fortunately, the same cells that secrete proteolytic of the small intestine, and the characteristics of pancre- enzymes into the acini of the pancreas simultaneously se- atic juice are determined to some extent by the types of crete another substance called trypsin inhibitor. This sub- food in the chyme. The pancreas also secretes insulin, stance, which is formed in the cytoplasm of the glandular but it is not secreted by the same pancreatic tissue that cells, prevents activation of trypsin inside the secretory secretes intestinal pancreatic juice. Instead, insulin is cells and in the acini and ducts of the pancreas. In addi- secreted directly into the blood—not into the intestine— tion, because it is trypsin that activates the other pancre- by the islets of Langerhans that occur in islet patches atic proteolytic enzymes, trypsin inhibitor prevents acti- throughout the pancreas. These structures are discussed vation of the other enzymes as well. in Chapter 79. When the pancreas becomes severely damaged or when a duct becomes blocked, large quantities of pancre- PANCREATIC DIGESTIVE ENZYMES atic secretion sometimes become pooled in the damaged areas of the pancreas.
