Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the pancreas becomes severely damaged or when a duct becomes blocked, large quantities of pancre- PANCREATIC DIGESTIVE ENZYMES atic secretion sometimes become pooled in the damaged areas of the pancreas. Under these conditions, the effect Pancreatic secretion contains multiple enzymes for of trypsin inhibitor is often overwhelmed, in which case digesting all of the three major types of food—proteins, the pancreatic secretions rapidly become activated and carbohydrates, and fats. It also contains large quantities of can literally digest the entire pancreas within a few hours, HCO −, which play an important role in neutralizing the 3 giving rise to the condition called acute pancreatitis. This acidity of the chyme emptied from the stomach into the condition is sometimes lethal because of accompanying duodenum. circulatory shock; even if it is not lethal, it usually leads to The most important of the pancreatic enzymes for a lifetime of pancreatic insufficiency. digesting proteins are trypsin, chymotrypsin, and car- boxypolypeptidase. By far the most abundant of these is SECRETION OF BICARBONATE IONS trypsin. Trypsin and chymotrypsin split whole and partially Although the enzymes of the pancreatic juice are secreted digested proteins into peptides of various sizes but do not entirely by the acini of the pancreatic glands, the other cause release of individual amino acids. However, car- two important components of pancreatic juice, HCO − 3 boxypolypeptidase splits some peptides into individual and water, are secreted mainly by the epithelial cells of amino acids, thus completing digestion of some proteins the ductules and ducts that lead from the acini. When all the way to the amino acid state. the pancreas is stimulated to secrete copious quantities The pancreatic enzyme for digesting carbohydrates is of pancreatic juice, the HCO − concentration can rise 3 pancreatic amylase, which hydrolyzes starches, glycogen, to as high as 145 mEq/L, a value about five times that of and most other carbohydrates (except cellulose) to form HCO − in the plasma. This high concentration provides a 3 mostly disaccharides and a few trisaccharides. large quantity of alkali in the pancreatic juice that serves The main enzymes for fat digestion are the follow- to neutralize the hydrochloric acid emptied into the duo- ing: (1) pancreatic lipase, which is capable of hydrolyzing denum from the stomach. neutral fat into fatty acids and monoglycerides; (2) cho- The basic steps in the cellular mechanism for secreting lesterol esterase, which causes hydrolysis of cholesterol sodium
