Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


denum from the stomach. neutral fat into fatty acids and monoglycerides; (2) cho- The basic steps in the cellular mechanism for secreting lesterol esterase, which causes hydrolysis of cholesterol sodium bicarbonate solution into the pancreatic ductules esters; and (3) phospholipase, which splits fatty acids from and ducts, shown in Figure 65- 8, are as follows: phospholipids. 1. Carbon dioxide diffuses to the interior of the cell When first synthesized in the pancreatic cells, the from the blood and, under the influence of carbonic proteolytic digestive enzymes are in their enzymatically anhydrase, combines with water to form carbonic inactive forms—trypsinogen, chymotrypsinogen, and pro- acid (H CO ). The carbonic acid dissociates into 2 3 carboxypolypeptidase. They become activated only after HCO − and H+. Additional HCO − enters the cell 3 3 they are secreted into the intestinal tract. Trypsinogen through the basolateral membrane by co- transport is activated by an enzyme called enterokinase, which is with Na+. The HCO − is then exchanged for Cl− by 3 secreted by the intestinal mucosa when chyme comes in secondary active transport through the luminal 815 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Blood Interstitial Pancreatic duct cell Lumen 3. Secretin, which is also secreted by the duodenal and fluid jejunal mucosa when highly acidic food enters the small intestine Na+ Na+ Cl– Cl– The first two of these stimuli, acetylcholine and CCK, HCO – HCO – 3 3 stimulate the acinar cells of the pancreas, causing produc- H 2O Cl– Cl– tion of large quantities of pancreatic digestive enzymes but CO 2 CA HCO 3– HCO 3– relatively small quantities of water and electrolytes to go + with the enzymes. Without the water, most of the enzymes H+ H+ remain temporarily stored in the acini and ducts until more Na+ Na+ fluid secretion comes along to wash them into the duode- num. Secretin, in contrast to the first two basic stimuli, Na+ stimulates secretion of large quantities of water solution of sodium bicarbonate by the pancreatic ductal epithelium. ATP K+ K+ Multiplicative Effects of Different Stimuli. When all the different stimuli of pancreatic secretion occur at once, K+ K+ the total secretion is far greater than the sum of the se- cretions caused by each one separately. Therefore, the Na+, H O Na+, H O various stimuli are said to “multiply,” or “potentiate,” one 2 2 another. Thus, pancreatic secretion normally results from
