Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


by each one separately. Therefore, the Na+, H O Na+, H O various stimuli are said to “multiply,” or “potentiate,” one 2 2 another. Thus, pancreatic secretion normally results from the combined effects of the multiple basic stimuli, not Figure 65- 8. Secretion of isosmotic sodium bicarbonate solution by the pancreatic ductules and ducts. ATP, Adenosine triphosphate; CA, from one alone. carbonic anhydrase. Phases of Pancreatic Secretion Pancreatic secretion, as with gastric secretion, occurs in border of the cell into the lumen of the duct. The three phases: the cephalic phase, the gastric phase, and Cl− that enters the cell is recycled back into the lu- the intestinal phase. Their characteristics are described in men by special chloride channels. the following sections. 2. The H+ formed by dissociation of carbonic acid in- side the cell is exchanged for Na+ through the baso- Cephalic and Gastric Phases. During the cephalic phase lateral membrane of the cell by secondary active of pancreatic secretion, the same nervous signals from transport. Sodium ions also enter the cell by co- the brain that cause secretion in the stomach also cause transport with HCO − across the basolateral mem- acetylcholine release by the vagal nerve endings in the 3 brane. Sodium ions are then transported across the pancreas. This signaling causes moderate amounts of en- luminal border into the pancreatic duct lumen. The zymes to be secreted into the pancreatic acini, accounting negative voltage of the lumen also pulls the positive- for about 20% of the total secretion of pancreatic enzymes ly charged Na+ across the tight junctions between after a meal. However, little of the secretion flows im- the cells. mediately through the pancreatic ducts into the intestine 3. The overall movement of Na+ and HCO − from because only small amounts of water and electrolytes are 3 the blood into the duct lumen creates an os- secreted along with the enzymes. motic pressure gradient that causes osmosis of During the gastric phase, the nervous stimulation of water also into the pancreatic duct, thus form- enzyme secretion continues, accounting for another ing an almost completely isosmotic bicarbonate 5% to 10% of pancreatic enzymes secreted after a meal. solution. However, again, only small amounts reach the duodenum because of continued lack of significant fluid secretion. REGULATION OF PANCREATIC SECRETION Intestinal Phase. After chyme leaves the stomach and Basic Stimuli That Cause Pancreatic enters the small intestine,
