Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


duodenum because of continued lack of significant fluid secretion. REGULATION OF PANCREATIC SECRETION Intestinal Phase. After chyme leaves the stomach and Basic Stimuli That Cause Pancreatic enters the small intestine, pancreatic secretion becomes Secretion copious, mainly in response to the hormone secretin. Secretin Stimulates Copious Secretion of Bicarbonate Three basic stimuli are important in causing pancreatic secretion: Ions, Which Neutralizes Acidic Stomach Chyme. Se- 1. Acetylcholine, which is released from the parasym- cretin is a polypeptide containing 27 amino acids (with pathetic vagus nerve endings and from other cho- a molecular weight of ≈3400). It is present in an inactive linergic nerves in the enteric nervous system form, prosecretin, in the S cells in the mucosa of the duo- 2. Cholecystokinin (CCK), which is secreted by the du- denum and jejunum. When acid chyme with a pH less odenal and upper jejunal mucosa when food enters than 4.5 to 5.0 enters the duodenum from the stomach, it the small intestine causes duodenal mucosal release and activation of secre- 816 Chapter 65 Secretory Functions of the Alimentary Tract tin, which is then absorbed into the blood. The one truly Water and potent constituent of chyme that causes secretin release is NaHCO 3 hydrochloric acid from the stomach. Enzymes Secretin in turn causes the pancreas to secrete large quantities of fluid containing a high concentration of HCO − (up to 145 mEq/L) but a low concentration of 3 Cl−. The secretin mechanism is especially important for two reasons. First, secretin begins to be released from the mucosa of the small intestine when the pH of the duode- nal contents falls below 4.5 to 5.0, and its release increases greatly as the pH falls to 3.0. This mechanism immediately causes copious secretion of pancreatic juice that contains abundant amounts of sodium bicarbonate. The net result is then the following reaction in the duodenum: HCI Soap Peptone HCl+NaHCO 3→NaCl+H 2CO 3 Figure 65- 9. Sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO ), water, and enzyme se- 3 The carbonic acid then immediately dissociates into cretion by the pancreas, caused by the presence of acid (HCl), fat CO and water. The CO is absorbed into the blood and (soap), or peptone solutions in the duodenum. 2 2 expired through the lungs, thus leaving a neutral solu- tion of sodium chloride in the duodenum. In this way, the Acid from stomach acid contents that are emptied into the duodenum from
