Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the lungs, thus leaving a neutral solu- tion of sodium chloride in the duodenum. In this way, the Acid from stomach acid contents that are emptied into the duodenum from releases secretin from the stomach become neutralized, and thus further peptic wall of duodenum; digestive activity by the gastric juices in the duodenum fats and amino acids cause release of is immediately blocked. Because the mucosa of the small cholecystokinin intestine cannot withstand the digestive action of acid Common gastric juice, this protective mechanism is essential to bile duct prevent the development of duodenal ulcers, as discussed in Chapter 67. Bicarbonate ion secretion by the pancreas provides Vagal stimulation an appropriate pH for action of the pancreatic digestive releases enzymes, which function optimally in a slightly alkaline enzymes or neutral medium, at a pH of 7.0 to 8.0. Fortunately, into acini the pH of the sodium bicarbonate secretion averages 8.0. Secretin causes copious secretion Cholecystokinin Contributes to Control of Diges- of pancreatic fluid tive Enzyme Secretion by the Pancreas. The presence and bicarbonate; of food in the upper small intestine also causes a second cholecystokinin Secretin and cholecystokinin causes secretion hormone, CCK, a polypeptide containing 33 amino ac- absorbed into blood stream of enzymes ids, to be released from yet another group of cells, the I cells, in the mucosa of the duodenum and upper jejunum. Figure 65- 10. Regulation of pancreatic secretion. This release of CCK results especially from the presence of proteoses and peptones (products of partial protein di- to soap (a fat); and (3) intense digestive enzyme secre- gestion) and long- chain fatty acids in the chyme coming tion (when peptones enter the duodenum) stimulated by from the stomach. CCK. CCK, like secretin, passes via the blood to the pan- Figure 65- 10 summarizes the more important fac- creas, but instead of causing sodium bicarbonate secre- tors that regulate pancreatic secretion. The total amount tion, it mainly causes secretion of much more pancreatic secreted each day is about 1 liter. digestive enzymes by the acinar cells. This effect is similar to that caused by vagal stimulation but is even more pro- BILE SECRETION BY THE LIVER nounced, accounting for 70% to 80% of the total secretion of the pancreatic digestive enzymes after a meal. One of the many functions of the liver is to secrete bile, The differences between the pancreatic stimulatory normally between 600 and 1000
