Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the pancreatic digestive enzymes after a meal. One of the many functions of the liver is to secrete bile, The differences between the pancreatic stimulatory normally between 600 and 1000 ml/day. Bile serves two effects of secretin and CCK are shown in Figure 65-9 , important functions. which demonstrates the following: (1) intense sodium First, bile plays an important role in fat digestion and bicarbonate secretion in response to acid in the duode- absorption, not because of any enzymes in the bile that num, stimulated by secretin; (2) a dual effect in response cause fat digestion, but because bile acids perform two 817 noiterces citaercnap fo etaR UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Bile acids via blood stimulate Vagal stimulation causes weak parenchymal secretion contraction of gallbladder Liver Stomach Secretin via blood stream stimulates liver ductal Acid secretion Bile stored and concentrated up to 15 times in gallbladder Pancreas Sphincter Duodenum of Oddi Cholecystokinin via blood stream causes: 1. Gallbladder contraction Figure 65- 11. Liver secretion and gall- 2. Relaxation of sphincter of Oddi bladder emptying. functions: (1) they help emulsify large fat particles of the by epithelial cells that line the ductules and ducts. This food into many minute particles, the surface of which can second secretion sometimes increases the total quantity then be attacked by lipase enzymes secreted in pancreatic of bile by as much as 100%. The second secretion is stimu- juice, and (2) they aid in absorption of digested fat end lated especially by secretin, which causes release of addi- products through the intestinal mucosal membrane. tional quantities of HCO − to supplement the HCO − in 3 3 Second, bile serves as a means for excretion of several pancreatic secretion (for neutralizing acid that empties important waste products from the blood. These waste into the duodenum from the stomach). products include in particular bilirubin, an end product of The Gallbladder Stores and Concentrates Bile. Bile is hemoglobin destruction, and excesses of cholesterol. secreted continually by the liver cells, but most of it is PHYSIOLOGIC ANATOMY OF BILIARY normally stored in the gallbladder until it is needed in the SECRETION duodenum. The maximum volume that the gallbladder can hold is only 30 to 60 ml. Nevertheless, as much as 12 Bile is secreted in two stages by the liver: hours of bile secretion (usually ≈450 ml) can be stored in 1. The initial portion is secreted
