Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


as much as 12 Bile is secreted in two stages by the liver: hours of bile secretion (usually ≈450 ml) can be stored in 1. The initial portion is secreted by the principal func- the gallbladder because water, sodium, chloride, and most tional cells of the liver, the hepatocytes.This initial other small electrolytes are continually absorbed through secretion contains large amounts of bile acids, the gallbladder mucosa, concentrating the remaining bile cholesterol, and other organic constituents. It is constituents that contain the bile salts, cholesterol, leci- secreted into minute bile canaliculi that originate thin, and bilirubin. between the hepatic cells (see Figure 71- 1). Most of this gallbladder absorption is caused by active 2. Next, the bile flows in the canaliculi toward the in- transport of sodium through the gallbladder epithelium, terlobular septa, where the canaliculi empty into and this transport is followed by secondary absorption of terminal bile ducts and then into progressively Cl−, water, and most other diffusible constituents. Bile is larger ducts, finally reaching the hepatic duct and normally concentrated in this way about 5- fold, but it can common bile duct. From these ducts the bile either be concentrated up to a maximum of 20- fold. empties directly into the duodenum or is diverted Composition of Bile. Table 65- 2 lists the composition of for minutes up to several hours through the cystic bile when it is first secreted by the liver and then after it has duct into the gallbladder, shown in Figure 65- 11. been concentrated in the gallbladder. By far the most abun- In its course through the bile ducts, a second portion of dant substances secreted in the bile are bile salts, which ac- liver secretion is added to the initial bile. This additional secretion is a watery solution of Na+ and HCO − secreted count for about one-half of the total solutes also in the bile. 3 818 Chapter 65 Secretory Functions of the Alimentary Tract Table 65- 2 Composition of Bile FUNCTION OF BILE SALTS IN FAT DIGESTION AND ABSORPTION Substance Liver Bile Gallbladder Bile Water 97.5 g/dl 92 g/dl The liver cells synthesize about 6 g/day of bile salts. The pre- Bile salts 1.1 g/dl 6 g/dl cursor of the bile salts is cholesterol, which is either present Bilirubin 0.04 g/dl 0.3 g/dl in the diet or synthesized in the liver cells during the course of fat metabolism. The
