Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the bile salts is cholesterol, which is either present Bilirubin 0.04 g/dl 0.3 g/dl in the diet or synthesized in the liver cells during the course of fat metabolism. The cholesterol is first converted to cho- Cholesterol 0.1 g/dl 0.3–0.9 g/dl lic acid or chenodeoxycholic acid in about equal quantities. Fatty acids 0.12 g/dl 0.3–1.2 g/dl These acids in turn combine principally with glycine and to Lecithin 0.04 g/dl 0.3 g/dl a lesser extent with taurine to form glyco- conjugated and Na+ 145 mEq/L 130 mEq/L tauro- conjugated bile acids. The salts of these acids, mainly K+ 5 mEq/L 12 mEq/L sodium salts, are then secreted in the bile. Ca2+ 5 mEq/L 23 mEq/L The bile salts have two important actions in the intes- tinal tract. Cl− 100 mEq/L 25 mEq/L First, they have a detergent action on the fat particles HCO − 28 mEq/L 10 mEq/L 3 in the food. This action, which decreases surface tension of the particles and allows agitation in the intestinal tract to break the fat globules into minute sizes, is called the Also secreted or excreted in large concentrations are biliru- emulsifying or detergent function of bile salts. bin, cholesterol, lecithin, and the usual electrolytes of plasma. Second, and even more important than the emulsifying In the concentrating process in the gallbladder, water function, bile salts help in the absorption of (1) fatty acids, and large portions of the electrolytes (except calcium (2) monoglycerides, (3) cholesterol, and (4) other lipids ions) are reabsorbed by the gallbladder mucosa. Essen- from the intestinal tract. They help in this absorption by tially all other constituents, especially the bile salts and forming small physical complexes with these lipids; the the lipid substances cholesterol and lecithin, are not reab- complexes are called micelles, and they are semisoluble sorbed and, therefore, become highly concentrated in the in the chyme because of the electrical charges of the bile gallbladder bile. salts. The intestinal lipids are “ferried” in this form to the Cholecystokinin Stimulates Gallbladder Emptying. intestinal mucosa, where they are then absorbed into the When food begins to be digested in the upper gastroin- blood, as will be described in detail in Chapter 66. With- testinal tract, the gallbladder begins to empty, especially out the presence of bile salts in the intestinal tract, up to when fatty foods reach the duodenum about 30 minutes 40% of the ingested fats are lost
