Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


empty, especially out the presence of bile salts in the intestinal tract, up to when fatty foods reach the duodenum about 30 minutes 40% of the ingested fats are lost into the feces, and a meta- after a meal. The mechanism of gallbladder emptying is bolic deficit often develops because of this nutrient loss. rhythmic contractions of the gallbladder wall, but effec- tive emptying also requires simultaneous relaxation of the Enterohepatic Circulation of Bile Salts. About 94% of sphincter of Oddi, which guards the exit of the common the bile salts are reabsorbed into the blood from the small bile duct into the duodenum. intestine, about one half of this by diffusion through the By far the most potent stimulus for causing the gall- mucosa in the early portions of the small intestine and the bladder contractions is the hormone CCK. As discussed remainder by an active transport process through the intes- previously, CCK also causes increased secretion of diges- tinal mucosa in the distal ileum. They then enter the portal blood and pass back to the liver. On reaching the liver and tive enzymes by the acinar cells of the pancreas. The during first passage through the venous sinusoids, these stimulus for CCK entry into the blood from the duode- salts are absorbed almost entirely back into the hepatic cells nal mucosa is mainly the presence of fatty foods in the and are then resecreted into the bile. duodenum. In this way, about 94% of all the bile salts are recircu- The gallbladder is also stimulated less strongly by lated into the bile, so on average these salts make the en- acetylcholine- secreting nerve fibers from both the vagi and tire circuit some 17 times before being carried out in the the intestinal enteric nervous system. They are the same feces. The small quantities of bile salts lost into the feces are nerves that promote motility and secretion in other parts replaced by new amounts formed continually by the liver of the upper gastrointestinal tract. cells. This recirculation of the bile salts is called the entero- In summary, the gallbladder empties its store of con- hepatic circulation of bile salts. centrated bile into the duodenum mainly in response to The quantity of bile secreted by the liver each day is high- ly dependent on the availability of bile salts—the greater the the CCK stimulus that is initiated mainly by
