Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


The quantity of bile secreted by the liver each day is high- ly dependent on the availability of bile salts—the greater the the CCK stimulus that is initiated mainly by fatty foods. quantity of bile salts in the enterohepatic circulation (usu- When fat is not in the food, the gallbladder empties ally a total of only ≈2.5 grams), the greater the rate of bile poorly, but when significant quantities of fat are present, secretion. Indeed, ingestion of supplemental bile salts can the gallbladder normally empties completely in about 1 increase bile secretion by several hundred milliliters per day. hour. Figure 65- 11 summarizes the secretion of bile, its If a bile fistula empties the bile salts to the exterior for sev- storage in the gallbladder, and its ultimate release from eral days to several weeks so they cannot be reabsorbed from the gallbladder to the duodenum. the ileum, the liver increases its production of bile salts 6- to 819 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology 10-f old, which increases the rate of bile secretion most of the Causes of gallstones: way back to normal. This demonstrates that the daily rate of liv- 1. Too much absorption of water er bile salt secretion is actively controlled by the availability (or from bile 2. Too much absorption of bile lack of availability) of bile salts in the enterohepatic circulation. acids from bile Role of Secretin in Controlling Bile Secretion. In addi- 3. Too much cholesterol in bile tion to the strong stimulating effect of bile acids to cause 4. Inflammation of epithelium Stones Liver bile secretion, the hormone secretin—which also stimulates pancreatic secretion—increases bile secretion, sometimes more than doubling its secretion for several hours after a Gallbladder Hepatic duct meal. This increase in secretion consists almost entirely of secretion of a sodium bicarbonate–rich watery solution by Stones Course followed by bile: the epithelial cells of the bile ductules and ducts and does Cystic duct 1. During rest 2. During digestion not represent increased secretion by the liver parenchymal cells. The bicarbonate in turn passes into the small intestine Common bile duct and joins the bicarbonate from the pancreas in neutralizing the hydrochloric acid from the stomach. Thus, the secretin feedback mechanism for neutralizing duodenal acid oper- Papilla of Vater Pancreatic duct ates not only through its effects on pancreatic secretion but also to a lesser extent through its effect on secretion by
