Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


neutralizing duodenal acid oper- Papilla of Vater Pancreatic duct ates not only through its effects on pancreatic secretion but also to a lesser extent through its effect on secretion by the Sphincter of Oddi liver ductules and ducts. Duodenum Liver Secretion of Cholesterol and Gallstone Formation Figure 65- 12. Formation of gallstones. Bile salts are formed in the hepatic cells from cholesterol in the blood plasma. In the process of secreting bile salts, stomach and the papilla of Vater, where pancreatic secretion about 1 to 2 grams of cholesterol are removed from the and bile empty into the duodenum. These glands secrete blood plasma and secreted into the bile each day. large amounts of alkaline mucus in response to the follow- Cholesterol is almost completely insoluble in pure wa- ing: (1) tactile or irritating stimuli on the duodenal mucosa; ter, but the bile salts and lecithin in bile combine physically (2) vagal stimulation, which causes increased Brunner gland with the cholesterol to form ultramicroscopic micelles in the form of a colloidal solution, as explained in Chapter 66. secretion concurrently with increase in stomach secretion; When the bile becomes concentrated in the gallbladder, the and (3) gastrointestinal hormones, especially secretin. bile salts and lecithin become concentrated along with the The function of the mucus secreted by Brunner's cholesterol, which keeps the cholesterol in solution. glands is to protect the duodenal wall from digestion by Under abnormal conditions, the cholesterol may precipi- the highly acidic gastric juice emptying from the stomach. tate in the gallbladder, resulting in the formation of cholester- In addition, the mucus contains a large excess of HCO −, 3 ol gallstones, as shown in Figure 65- 12. The amount of cho- which add to the HCO − from pancreatic secretion and 3 lesterol in the bile is determined partly by the quantity of fat liver bile in neutralizing the hydrochloric acid entering that the person eats, because liver cells synthesize cholesterol the duodenum from the stomach. as one of the products of fat metabolism in the body. For this Brunner's glands are inhibited by sympathetic stimula- reason, people who are obese and consume a high-f at diet tion; therefore, such stimulation in very excitable persons over a period of years are prone to development of gallstones. Other risk factors for gallstones include increasing age and is likely to leave the duodenal bulb unprotected and is per- female sex,
