Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of years are prone to development of gallstones. Other risk factors for gallstones include increasing age and is likely to leave the duodenal bulb unprotected and is per- female sex, diabetes mellitus, and genetic susceptibility. haps one of the factors that cause this area of the gastro- Inflammation of the gallbladder epithelium, often re- intestinal tract to be the site of peptic ulcers in about 50% sulting from a low- grade chronic infection, may also change of persons with ulcers. the absorptive characteristics of the gallbladder mucosa, sometimes allowing excessive absorption of water and bile SECRETION OF INTESTINAL DIGESTIVE salts but leaving behind the cholesterol in the gallbladder in JUICES BY THE CRYPTS OF LIEBERKÜHN progressively greater concentrations. The cholesterol then begins to precipitate, first forming many small crystals of Located over the entire surface of the small intestine are cholesterol on the surface of the inflamed mucosa, but then small pits called crypts of Lieberkühn, one of which is progressing to large gallstones. illustrated in Figure 65-1 3. These crypts lie between the intestinal villi. The surfaces of both the crypts and the SECRETIONS OF THE SMALL INTESTINE villi are covered by an epithelium composed of two types of cells: (1) a moderate number of goblet cells, which SECRETION OF MUCUS BY BRUNNER'S secrete mucus that lubricates and protects the intestinal GLANDS IN THE DUODENUM surfaces; and (2) a large number of enterocytes, which, in the crypts, secrete large quantities of water and elec- An extensive array of compound mucous glands, called trolytes and, over the surfaces of adjacent villi, reabsorb Brunner's glands, is located in the wall of the first few centi- the water and electrolytes along with the end products meters of the duodenum, mainly between the pylorus of the of digestion. 820 Chapter 65 Secretory Functions of the Alimentary Tract epithelial cell is about 5 days. This rapid growth of new cells also allows rapid repair of excoriations that occur in the mucosa. Mucous goblet REGULATION OF SMALL INTESTINE cell SECRETION—LOCAL STIMULI By far the most important means for regulating small Epithelial cell intestine secretion are local enteric nervous reflexes, especially reflexes initiated by tactile or irritative stimuli from the chyme in the intestines. Paneth cell SECRETION OF MUCUS BY THE LARGE INTESTINE Figure 65- 13. A crypt of Lieberkühn, found in all parts of the small Mucus Secretion. The mucosa of the large intestine, like
