Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


SECRETION OF MUCUS BY THE LARGE INTESTINE Figure 65- 13. A crypt of Lieberkühn, found in all parts of the small Mucus Secretion. The mucosa of the large intestine, like intestine between the villi, which secretes almost pure extracellular that of the small intestine, has many crypts of Lieberkühn; fluid. however, unlike the small intestine, it contains no villi. The epithelial cells secrete almost no digestive enzymes. The intestinal secretions are formed by the enterocytes Instead, they contain mucous cells that secrete only mu- of the crypts at a rate of about 1800 ml/day. These secre- cus. This mucus contains moderate amounts of HCO − 3 tions are almost pure extracellular fluid and have a slightly secreted by a few non–mucus- secreting epithelial cells. alkaline pH in the range of 7.5 to 8.0. The secretions are The rate of mucus secretion is regulated principally by also rapidly reabsorbed by the villi. This flow of fluid direct, tactile stimulation of the epithelial cells lining the from the crypts into the villi supplies a watery vehicle for large intestine and by local nervous reflexes to the mucous absorption of substances from chyme when it comes in cells in the crypts of Lieberkühn. contact with the villi. Thus, the primary function of the Stimulation of the pelvic nerves from the spinal cord, small intestine is to absorb nutrients and their digestive which carry parasympathetic innervation to the distal products into the blood. one-half to two-thirds of the large intestine, also can cause marked increases in mucus secretion along with increased Mechanism of Secretion of the Watery Fluid. The ex- peristaltic motility of the colon, as discussed in Chapter 64. act mechanism that controls the marked secretion of wa- During extreme parasympathetic stimulation, often tery fluid by the crypts of Lieberkühn is still unclear, but it caused by emotional disturbances, so much mucus can occa- is believed to involve at least two active secretory process- sionally be secreted into the large intestine that the person es: (1) active secretion of Cl− into the crypts and (2) ac- has a bowel movement of ropy mucus as often as every 30 tive secretion of HCO −. The secretion of both ions causes 3 minutes. This mucus often contains little or no fecal material. electrical drag of positively charged Na+ ions through the Mucus in the large intestine protects the intestinal wall membrane and into the secreted
