Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


often contains little or no fecal material. electrical drag of positively charged Na+ ions through the Mucus in the large intestine protects the intestinal wall membrane and into the secreted fluid as well. Finally, all against excoriation, but in addition, it provides an adher- these ions together cause osmotic movement of water. ent medium for holding fecal matter together. Further- Digestive Enzymes in the Small Intestinal Secretion. more, it protects the intestinal wall from the great amount When secretions of the small intestine are collected with- of bacterial activity that takes place inside the feces, and, out cellular debris, they have almost no enzymes. The en- finally, the mucus plus the alkalinity of the secretion (a pH terocytes of the mucosa, especially those that cover the of 8.0 caused by large amounts of sodium bicarbonate) villi, contain digestive enzymes that digest specific food provides a barrier to keep acids formed in the feces from substances while they are being absorbed through the epi- attacking the intestinal wall. thelium. These enzymes are as follows: (1) several pepti- Diarrhea Caused by Excess Secretion of Water and dases for splitting small peptides into amino acids; (2) four Electrolytes in Response to Irritation. Whenever a seg- enzymes—sucrase, maltase, isomaltase, and lactase—for ment of the large intestine becomes intensely irritated, as splitting disaccharides into monosaccharides; and (3) occurs when bacterial infection becomes rampant dur- small amounts of intestinal lipase for splitting neutral fats ing enteritis, the mucosa secretes extra large quantities into glycerol and fatty acids. of water and electrolytes in addition to the normal viscid The epithelial cells deep in the crypts of Lieberkühn alkaline mucus. This secretion acts to dilute the irritating continually undergo mitosis, and new cells migrate factors and to cause rapid movement of the feces toward along the basement membrane upward out of the crypts the anus. The result is diarrhea, with loss of large quanti- toward the tips of the villi, thus continually replacing ties of water and electrolytes. However, the diarrhea also the villus epithelium and also forming new digestive washes away irritant factors, which promotes earlier re- enzymes. As the villus cells age, they are finally shed into covery from the disease than might otherwise occur. the intestinal secretions. The life cycle of an intestinal 821 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Bibliography Hegyi P, Maléth J, Walters JR, Hofmann AF, Keely SJ: Guts and gall: bile
