Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


be absorbed in their natural forms through Hydrolysis of Proteins. Proteins are formed from multi- the gastrointestinal mucosa, and for this reason, they are ple amino acids that are bound together by peptide link- useless as nutrients without preliminary digestion. This ages. At each linkage, a OH− has been removed from one chapter discusses the processes by which carbohydrates, amino acid and a H+ has been removed from the succeed- fats, and proteins are digested into small enough com- ing one; thus, the successive amino acids in the protein pounds for absorption and the mechanisms by which the chain are also bound together by condensation, and di- digestive end products, as well as water, electrolytes, and gestion occurs by the reverse effect: hydrolysis. That is, other substances, are absorbed. the proteolytic enzymes return H+ and OH− from water molecules to the protein molecules to split them into their DIGESTION OF VARIOUS FOODS BY constituent amino acids. HYDROLYSIS Therefore, the chemistry of digestion is simple because, in the case of all three major types of food, the same basic Hydrolysis of Carbohydrates. Almost all the carbohy- process of hydrolysis is involved. The only difference lies drates of the diet are either large polysaccharides or di- in the types of enzymes required to promote the hydroly- saccharides, which are combinations of monosaccharides sis reactions for each type of food. bound to one another by condensation. This phenomenon All the digestive enzymes are proteins. Their secretion means that a hydrogen ion (H+) has been removed from by the different gastrointestinal glands was discussed in one of the monosaccharides, and a hydroxyl ion (OH−) has Chapter 65. been removed from the next one. The two monosaccha- rides then combine with each other at these sites of remov- DIGESTION OF CARBOHYDRATES al, and the H+ and OH− then combine to form water (H O). 2 When carbohydrates are digested, this process is Carbohydrate Foods of the Diet. Only three major reversed, and the carbohydrates are converted into mono- sources of carbohydrates exist in the normal human diet. saccharides. Specific enzymes in the digestive juices of the They are sucrose, which is the disaccharide known popu- gastrointestinal tract return the H+ and OH− from H O larly as cane sugar; lactose, which is a disaccharide found 2 to the polysaccharides and thereby separate the monosac- in milk; and starches, which are large polysaccharides charides from each
