Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


larly as cane sugar; lactose, which is a disaccharide found 2 to the polysaccharides and thereby separate the monosac- in milk; and starches, which are large polysaccharides charides from each other. This process, called hydrolysis, present in almost all nonanimal foods, particularly in po- is the following (in which R′′- R′ is a disaccharide): tatoes and different types of grains. Other carbohydrates ingested to a slight extent are amylose, glycogen, alcohol, R‘’−R‘ + H 2O D ei  ng ze ys  mtiv ee → R‘’OH + R‘H lactic acid, pyruvic acid, pectins, dextrins, and minor quantities of carbohydrate derivatives in meats. Hydrolysis of Fats. Almost the entire fat portion of the The diet also contains a large amount of cellulose, which diet consists of triglycerides (neutral fats), which are com- is a carbohydrate. However, enzymes capable of hydrolyz- binations of three fatty acid molecules condensed with a ing cellulose are not secreted in the human digestive tract. single glycerol molecule. During condensation, three mol- Consequently, cellulose cannot be considered a food for ecules of water are removed. humans. Hydrolysis (digestion) of the triglycerides consists of the reverse process: the fat-d igesting enzymes return Digestion of Carbohydrates Begins in the Mouth three molecules of water to the triglyceride molecule and Stomach. When food is chewed, it is mixed with 823 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Starches Ptyalin (saliva): 20%-40% Pancreatic amylase: 50%-80% Maltose and 3 to 9 glucose polymers Lactose Sucrose Lactase Sucrase Maltase and (cid:31)-dextrinase (intestine) (intestine) (intestine) Glucose Galactose Fructose Figure 66- 1. Digestion of carbohydrates. saliva, which contains the digestive enzyme ptyalin (an glucose polymers all split into multiple molecules of glu- α- amylase) secreted mainly by the parotid glands. This cose. Thus, the final products of carbohydrate digestion enzyme hydrolyzes starch into the disaccharide maltose are all monosaccharides. They are all water soluble and and other small polymers of glucose that contain three to are absorbed immediately into the portal blood. nine glucose molecules, as shown in Figure 66- 1. How- In the ordinary diet, which contains far more starches ever, the food remains in the mouth only a short time, than all other carbohydrates combined, glucose repre- so probably not more than 5% of all the starches become sents more than 80% of the final products of carbohydrate hydrolyzed by the time the food is swallowed. digestion, and galactose and fructose each seldom repre-
