Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


all the starches become sents more than 80% of the final products of carbohydrate hydrolyzed by the time the food is swallowed. digestion, and galactose and fructose each seldom repre- Starch digestion sometimes continues in the body and sent more than 10%. fundus of the stomach for as long as 1 hour before the The major steps in carbohydrate digestion are summa- food becomes mixed with the stomach secretions. Activ- rized in Figure 66- 1. ity of the salivary amylase is then blocked by acid of the gastric secretions because the amylase is essentially inac- DIGESTION OF PROTEINS tive as an enzyme once the pH of the medium falls below about 4.0. Nevertheless, on average, before food and its Proteins of the Diet. Dietary proteins are chemically accompanying saliva become completely mixed with the long chains of amino acids bound together by peptide gastric secretions, as much as 30% to 40% of the starches linkages. A typical linkage is the following: will have been hydrolyzed, mainly to form maltose. NH H 2 DIGESTION OF CARBOHYDRATES IN THE R CH C OH + H N CH COOH SMALL INTESTINE Digestion by Pancreatic Amylase. Pancreatic secretion, O R like saliva, contains a large quantity of α- amylase that is NH 2 H almost identical in its function to the α- amylase of saliva but is several times as powerful. Therefore, within 15 to 30 R CH C N CH COOH + H O 2 minutes after the chyme empties from the stomach into the duodenum and mixes with pancreatic juice, virtually O R all the carbohydrates will have become digested. In general, the carbohydrates are almost totally con- verted into maltose and/or other small glucose polymers The characteristics of each protein are determined by before passing beyond the duodenum or upper jejunum. the types of amino acids in the protein molecule and by the sequential arrangements of these amino acids. The Hydrolysis of Disaccharides and Small Glucose Poly- physical and chemical characteristics of different proteins mers Into Monosaccharides by Intestinal Epithelial important in human tissues are discussed in Chapter 70. Enzymes. The enterocytes lining the villi of the small in- testine contain four enzymes (lactase, sucrase, maltase, Digestion of Proteins in the Stomach. Pepsin, an im- and α-d extrinase), which are capable of splitting the di- portant peptic enzyme of the stomach, is most active at saccharides lactose, sucrose, and maltose, plus
