Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Stomach. Pepsin, an im- and α-d extrinase), which are capable of splitting the di- portant peptic enzyme of the stomach, is most active at saccharides lactose, sucrose, and maltose, plus other small a pH of 2.0 to 3.0 and is inactive at a pH above about glucose polymers, into their constituent monosaccha- 5.0. Consequently, for this enzyme to cause digestion of rides. These enzymes are located in the enterocytes cov- protein, the stomach juices must be acidic. As explained ering the intestinal microvilli brush border, so the disac- in Chapter 65, the gastric glands secrete a large quantity charides are digested as they come in contact with these of hydrochloric acid. This hydrochloric acid is secreted enterocytes. by the parietal (oxyntic) cells in the glands at a pH of Lactose splits into a molecule of galactose and a mol- about 0.8, but by the time it is mixed with the stomach ecule of glucose. Sucrose splits into a molecule of fruc- contents and with secretions from the non- oxyntic glan- tose and a molecule of glucose. Maltose and other small dular cells of the stomach, the pH then averages around 824 Chapter 66 Digestion and Absorption in the Gastrointestinal Tract O Pepsin Proteoses Proteins Peptones CH (CH ) C O CH 3 216 2 Polypeptides O Lipase Trypsin, chymotrypsin, carboxypolypeptidase, CH 3 (CH 2) 16 C O CH + 2H 2O elastase O Polypeptides Peptidases + Amino acids CH 3 (CH 2) 16 C O CH 2 Amino acids (Tristearin) Figure 66- 2. Digestion of proteins. O CH 2 HO O CH (CH ) C O CH + 2CH (CH ) C OH 3 216 3 216 2.0 to 3.0, a highly favorable range of acidity for pepsin HO CH 2 activity. (2-Monoglyceride) (Stearic acid) One of the important features of pepsin digestion is its Figure 66- 3. Hydrolysis of neutral fat catalyzed by lipase. ability to digest the protein collagen, an albuminoid type of protein that is affected little by other digestive enzymes. from the surface of each cell. In the membrane of each Collagen is a major constituent of the intercellular connec- of these microvilli are multiple peptidases that protrude tive tissue of meats; therefore, for the digestive enzymes through the membranes to the exterior, where they come to penetrate meats and digest the other meat proteins, it in contact with the intestinal fluids. is necessary that the
