Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


enzymes through the membranes to the exterior, where they come to penetrate meats and digest the other meat proteins, it in contact with the intestinal fluids. is necessary that the collagen fibers be digested. Conse- Two types of peptidase enzymes are especially impor- quently, in people who lack pepsin in the stomach juices, tant, aminopolypeptidase and several dipeptidases. They the ingested meats are less well penetrated by the other split the remaining larger polypeptides into tripeptides digestive enzymes and, therefore, may be poorly digested. and dipeptides and a few into amino acids. The amino As shown in Figure 66- 2, pepsin only initiates the pro- acids, dipeptides, and tripeptides are easily transported cess of protein digestion, usually providing only 10% to through the microvillar membrane to the interior of the 20% of the total protein digestion to convert the protein enterocyte. to proteoses, peptones, and a few polypeptides. This split- Finally, inside the cytosol of the enterocyte are multiple ting of proteins occurs as a result of hydrolysis at the pep- other peptidases that are specific for the remaining types of tide linkages between amino acids. linkages between amino acids. Within minutes, virtually all the last dipeptides and tripeptides are digested to the final Most Protein Digestion Results From Actions of Pan- stage to form single amino acids, which then pass on through creatic Proteolytic Enzymes. Most protein digestion oc- to the other side of the enterocyte and thence into the blood. curs in the upper small intestine, in the duodenum and More than 99% of the final protein digestive products jejunum, under the influence of proteolytic enzymes from that are absorbed are individual amino acids, with only rare pancreatic secretion. Immediately upon entering the absorption of peptides and very rare absorption of whole small intestine from the stomach, the partial breakdown protein molecules. Even these few absorbed molecules products of the protein foods are attacked by the major of whole protein can sometimes cause serious allergic or proteolytic pancreatic enzymes trypsin, chymotrypsin, immunologic disturbances, as discussed in Chapter 35. carboxypolypeptidase, and elastase, as shown in Figure 66- 2. DIGESTION OF FATS Both trypsin and chymotrypsin split proteins into small polypeptides; carboxypolypeptidase then cleaves Fats of the Diet. By far the most abundant fats of the individual amino acids from the carboxyl ends of the diet are the neutral fats, also known as triglycerides, each polypeptides. Proelastase, in turn, is
