Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the most abundant fats of the individual amino acids from the carboxyl ends of the diet are the neutral fats, also known as triglycerides, each polypeptides. Proelastase, in turn, is converted into elas- molecule of which is composed of a glycerol nucleus and tase, which then digests elastin fibers that partially hold three fatty acid side chains, as shown in Figure 66- 3. meats together. Neutral fat is a major constituent in food of animal origin Only small percentages of the proteins are digested all but much less so in food of plant origin. the way to their constituent amino acids by the pancreatic Small quantities of phospholipids, cholesterol, and juices. Most remain as dipeptides and tripeptides. cholesterol esters are also present in the usual diet. The phospholipids and cholesterol esters contain fatty acid Digestion of Peptides by Peptidases in the Entero- and therefore can be considered fats. Cholesterol is a cytes That Line the Small Intestinal Villi. The last diges- sterol compound that contains no fatty acid, but it does tive stage of proteins in the intestinal lumen is achieved by exhibit some of the physical and chemical characteristics enterocytes that line the villi of the small intestine, mainly of fats. In addition, it is derived from fats and is metabo- in the duodenum and jejunum. These cells have a brush lized similarly to fats. Therefore, cholesterol is considered, border that consists of hundreds of microvilli projecting from a dietary point of view, to be a fat. 825 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Digestion of Fats Occurs Mainly in the Small Intes- (Bile + agitation) Fat Emulsified fat tine. A small amount of triglycerides is digested in the stomach by lingual lipase secreted by lingual glands in Pancreatic lipase Emulsified fat Fatty acids and the mouth and swallowed with the saliva. This amount of 2-monoglycerides digestion is less than 10% and is generally unimportant. Figure 66- 4. Digestion of fats. Instead, essentially all fat digestion occurs in the small in- testine, as follows. all triglycerides that it can reach. The enterocytes of the The First Step in Fat Digestion Is Emulsification by small intestine contain additional lipase, known as enteric Bile Acids and Lecithin. The first step in fat digestion lipase, but it is usually not needed. is to physically break the fat globules into small sizes so End Products of Fat Digestion Are Free Fatty Acids. that
