Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fat digestion lipase, but it is usually not needed. is to physically break the fat globules into small sizes so End Products of Fat Digestion Are Free Fatty Acids. that the water- soluble digestive enzymes can act on the Most of the triglycerides of the diet are split by pancreatic globule surfaces. This process is called emulsification of lipase into free fatty acids and 2- monoglycerides, as shown the fat, and it begins by agitation in the stomach to mix in Figure 66- 4. the fat with the products of stomach digestion. Most of the emulsification then occurs in the duode- Bile Salts Form Micelles That Accelerate Fat Diges- num under the influence of bile, the liver secretion that tion. The hydrolysis of triglycerides is a highly revers- does not contain any digestive enzymes. However, bile ible process; therefore, accumulation of monoglycerides does contain a large quantity of bile salts, as well as the and free fatty acids in the vicinity of digesting fats quickly phospholipid lecithin. Both of these substances, but espe- blocks further digestion. However, the bile salts play the cially the lecithin, are extremely important for emulsifi- additional important role of removing the monoglycerides cation of the fat. The polar parts (i.e., the points where and free fatty acids from the vicinity of the digesting fat ionization occurs in water) of the bile salts and lecithin globules almost as rapidly as these end products of diges- molecules are highly soluble in water, whereas most of the tion are formed. This process occurs in the following way. remaining portions of their molecules are highly soluble When bile salts are of a high enough concentration in in fat. Therefore, the fat- soluble portions of these liver water, they have the propensity to form micelles, which secretions dissolve in the surface layer of the fat globules, are small spherical, cylindrical globules 3 to 6 nanometers with the polar portions projecting. The polar projections, in diameter composed of 20 to 40 molecules of bile salt. in turn, are soluble in the surrounding watery fluids, These micelles develop because each bile salt molecule which greatly decreases the interfacial tension of the fat is composed of a sterol nucleus that is highly fat- soluble and makes it soluble as well. and a polar group that is highly water- soluble. The sterol When the interfacial tension of a globule of non- nucleus encompasses the
