Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


soluble and makes it soluble as well. and a polar group that is highly water- soluble. The sterol When the interfacial tension of a globule of non- nucleus encompasses the fat digestate, forming a small miscible fluid is low, this non- miscible fluid, upon agita- fat globule in the middle of a resulting micelle, with polar tion, can be broken up into many tiny particles far more groups of bile salts projecting outward to cover the sur- easily than it can when the interfacial tension is great. face of the micelle. Because these polar groups are neg- Consequently, a major function of the bile salts and leci- atively charged, they allow the entire micelle globule to thin in the bile is to make the fat globules readily frag- dissolve in the water of the digestive fluids and to remain mentable by agitation with the water in the small bowel. in stable solution until the fat is absorbed into the blood. This action is the same as that of many detergents that are The bile salt micelles also act as a transport medium widely used in household cleaners for removing grease. to carry the monoglycerides and free fatty acids, both of Each time the diameters of the fat globules are sig- which would otherwise be relatively insoluble, to the brush nificantly decreased as a result of agitation in the small borders of the intestinal epithelial cells. There the mono- intestine, the total surface area of the fat increases many- glycerides and free fatty acids are absorbed into the blood, fold. Because the average diameter of the fat particles in as discussed later, but the bile salts are released back into the intestine after emulsification has occurred is less than the chyme to be used again and again for this “ferrying” 1 micrometer, this represents an increase of as much as process. 1000- fold in total surface areas of the fats caused by the emulsification process. Digestion of Cholesterol Esters and Phospholipids. The lipase enzymes are water- soluble and can attack Most cholesterol in the diet is in the form of cholesterol the fat globules only on their surfaces. Consequently, this esters, which are combinations of free cholesterol and one detergent function of bile salts and lecithin is very impor- molecule of fatty acid. Phospholipids also contain fatty tant for digestion of fats. acid within their molecules. Both the cholesterol esters and
