Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of bile salts and lecithin is very impor- molecule of fatty acid. Phospholipids also contain fatty tant for digestion of fats. acid within their molecules. Both the cholesterol esters and the phospholipids are hydrolyzed by two other lipases Triglycerides Are Digested by Pancreatic Lipase. By far in the pancreatic secretion that free the fatty acids—the the most important enzyme for digestion of the triglyc- enzyme cholesterol ester hydrolase to hydrolyze the cho- erides is pancreatic lipase, present in enormous quanti- lesterol ester, and phospholipase A to hydrolyze the phos- 2 ties in pancreatic juice, enough to digest within 1 minute pholipid. 826 Chapter 66 Digestion and Absorption in the Gastrointestinal Tract ANATOMICAL BASIS OF ABSORPTION The bile salt micelles play the same role in “ferrying” free cholesterol and phospholipid molecule digestates The total quantity of fluid that must be absorbed each day that they play in ferrying monoglycerides and free fatty by the intestines is equal to the ingested fluid (≈1.5 liters) acids. Indeed, essentially no cholesterol is absorbed with- plus that secreted in the various gastrointestinal secre- out this function of the micelles. tions (≈7 liters), which comes to a total of 8 to 9 liters. All but about 1.5 liters of this fluid is absorbed in the small BASIC PRINCIPLES OF intestine, leaving only 1.5 liters to pass through the ileoce- GASTROINTESTINAL ABSORPTION cal valve into the colon each day. The stomach is a poor absorptive area of the gastro- We suggest that the reader review the basic principles intestinal tract because it lacks the typical villus type of of cell membrane transport of substances discussed in absorptive membrane, and also because the junctions Chapter 4. The following paragraphs present specialized between the epithelial cells are tight junctions. Only applications of these transport processes during gastroin- a few highly lipid- soluble substances, such as alcohol testinal absorption. and some drugs (e.g., aspirin) can be absorbed in small quantities. Folds of Kerckring, Villi, and Microvilli Increase the Mucosal Absorptive Area by Nearly 1000-F old. Figure Villi 66- 5 demonstrates the absorptive surface of the small in- testinal mucosa, showing many folds called valvulae con- FFoooodd mmoovveemmeenntt niventes (or folds of Kerckring), which increase the surface area of the absorptive mucosa about threefold. These folds extend circularly most of the way around the intestine and are especially well developed in the duodenum and jeju- num, where they often protrude up
