Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


mucosa about threefold. These folds extend circularly most of the way around the intestine and are especially well developed in the duodenum and jeju- num, where they often protrude up to 8 millimeters into the lumen. Also located on the epithelial surface of the small intes- Valvulae conniventes tine all the way down to the ileocecal valve are millions of small villi. These villi project about 1 millimeter from the surface of the mucosa, as shown on the surfaces of the valvulae conniventes in Figure 66- 5 and in individual detail in Figure 66- 6. The villi lie so close to one another Figure 66- 5. Longitudinal section of the small intestine, showing the in the upper small intestine that they touch in most areas, valvulae conniventes (Kerckring folds) covered by villi. but their distribution is less profuse in the distal small Central Brush Basement lacteal border membrane Blood capillaries Venules Arteriole Central lacteal Vein Capillaries Artery A B Figure 66- 6. Functional organization of the villus. A, Longitudinal section. B, Cross section showing a basement membrane beneath the epithelial cells and a brush border at the other ends of these cells. 827 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology this; each day as much as several kilograms of carbohy- drates, 500 grams of fat, 500 to 700 grams of proteins, and 20 or more liters of water can be absorbed. The large Brush border intestine can absorb still more water and ions, although it can absorb very few nutrients. Pinocytic ISOSMOTIC ABSORPTION OF WATER vesicles Endoplasmic Water is transported through the intestinal membrane reticulum entirely by diffusion. Furthermore, this diffusion obeys the usual laws of osmosis. Therefore, when the chyme is dilute Mitochondria enough, water is absorbed through the intestinal mucosa into the blood of the villi almost entirely by osmosis. Figure 66- 7. Brush border of a gastrointestinal epithelial cell, also Conversely, water can also be transported in the oppo- showing absorbed pinocytic vesicles, mitochondria, and endoplasmic site direction—from plasma into the chyme. This type of reticulum lying immediately beneath the brush border. (Courtesy Dr. transport occurs especially when hyperosmotic solutions William Lockwood.) are discharged from the stomach into the duodenum. Within minutes, sufficient water usually will be transferred intestine. The presence of villi on the mucosal surface by osmosis to make the chyme isosmotic with the plasma. enhances the total absorptive area another 10- fold. Finally, each intestinal
