Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


intestine. The presence of villi on the mucosal surface by osmosis to make the chyme isosmotic with the plasma. enhances the total absorptive area another 10- fold. Finally, each intestinal epithelial cell on each villus is ABSORPTION OF IONS characterized by a brush border, consisting of as many as 1000 microvilli that are 1 micrometer in length and 0.1 Sodium Is Actively Transported Through the Intesti- micrometer in diameter and protrude into the intestinal nal Membrane. Twenty to 30 grams of sodium are se- chyme. These microvilli are shown in the electron micro- creted in the intestinal secretions each day. In addition, graph in Figure 66- 7. This brush border increases the the average person eats 5 to 8 grams of sodium each day. surface area exposed to the intestinal materials at least Therefore, to prevent net loss of sodium into the feces, another 20- fold. the intestines must absorb 25 to 35 grams of sodium each Thus, the combination of the folds of Kerckring, the day, which is equal to about one-seventh of all the sodium villi, and the microvilli increases the total absorptive area present in the body. of the mucosa perhaps 1000- fold, making a tremendous Whenever significant amounts of intestinal secretions total area of 250 or more square meters for the entire are lost to the exterior, as in extreme diarrhea, the sodium small intestine—about the surface area of a tennis court. reserves of the body can sometimes be depleted to lethal Figure 66- 6A shows in longitudinal section the general levels within hours. Normally, however, less than 0.5% of organization of the villus, emphasizing (1) the advanta- the intestinal sodium is lost in the feces each day because geous arrangement of the vascular system for absorption it is rapidly absorbed through the intestinal mucosa. of fluid and dissolved material into the portal blood and Sodium also plays an important role in helping to absorb (2) the arrangement of the “central lacteal” lymph ves- sugars and amino acids, as subsequent discussions reveal. sel for absorption into the lymph. Figure 66- 6B shows a The basic mechanism of sodium absorption from the cross section of the villus, and Figure 66- 7 shows many intestine is shown in Figure 66- 8. The principles of this small pinocytic vesicles, which are pinched- off portions mechanism, discussed in Chapter 4, are also essentially of infolded enterocyte membrane forming vesicles of
