Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Figure 66- 8. The principles of this small pinocytic vesicles, which are pinched- off portions mechanism, discussed in Chapter 4, are also essentially of infolded enterocyte membrane forming vesicles of the same as for absorption of sodium from the gallbladder absorbed fluids that have been entrapped. Small amounts and renal tubules, as discussed in Chapter 28. of substances are absorbed by this physical process of Sodium absorption is powered by active transport of pinocytosis. sodium from inside the epithelial cells through the basal Extending from the epithelial cell body into each micro- and lateral walls of these cells into paracellular spaces. villus of the brush border are multiple actin filaments that This active transport obeys the usual laws of active trans- contract rhythmically to cause continual movement of the port. It requires energy, and the energy process is cata- microvilli, keeping them constantly exposed to new quan- lyzed by appropriate adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) tities of intestinal fluid. enzymes in the cell membrane (see Chapter 4). Part of the sodium is absorbed along with chloride ions; in fact, ABSORPTION IN THE SMALL INTESTINE the negatively charged chloride ions are mainly passively “dragged” by the positive electrical charges of the sodium Absorption from the small intestine each day consists ions. of several hundred grams of carbohydrates, 100 or more Active transport of sodium through the basolateral grams of fat, 50 to 100 grams of amino acids, 50 to 100 membranes of the cell reduces the sodium concentration grams of ions, and 7 to 8 liters of water. The absorptive inside the cell to a low value (≈50 mEq/L). Because the capacity of the normal small intestine is far greater than sodium concentration in the chyme is normally about 142 828 Chapter 66 Digestion and Absorption in the Gastrointestinal Tract PARACELLULAR INTESTINE of the adrenal glands. Within 1 to 3 hours this aldos- SPACE CELLS LUMEN terone causes increased activation of the enzyme and transport mechanisms for all aspects of sodium ab- H2O H2O sorption by the intestinal epithelium. The increased sodium absorption in turn causes secondary increases K+ in absorption of chloride ions, water, and some other substances. Na+ This effect of aldosterone is especially important in the NNaa++ colon because it allows virtually no loss of sodium chlo- AAmmiinnoo AAcciiddss ride in the feces and also little water loss. Thus, the func- Na+ NNaa++ tion of aldosterone in the intestinal tract
