Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


allows virtually no loss of sodium chlo- AAmmiinnoo AAcciiddss ride in the feces and also little water loss. Thus, the func- Na+ NNaa++ tion of aldosterone in the intestinal tract is the same as K+ GGlluuccoossee that achieved by aldosterone in the renal tubules, which NNaa++ also serves to conserve sodium chloride and water in the H+ Cl– body when a person becomes depleted of sodium chlo- HCO3– ride and dehydrated. Cl– Na+ Absorption of Chloride Ions in the Small Intestine. In the upper part of the small intestine, chloride ion H2O K+ H2O absorption is rapid and occurs mainly by diffusion (i.e., absorption of sodium ions through the epithelium cre- ates electronegativity in the chyme and electropositivity Figure 66- 8. Absorption of sodium, chloride, glucose, and amino in the paracellular spaces between the epithelial cells). acids through the intestinal epithelium. Note also osmotic absorption of water (i.e., water “follows” sodium through the epithelial mem- Chloride ions then move along this electrical gradient brane). to “follow” the sodium ions. Chloride is also absorbed across the brush border membrane of parts of the ileum mEq/L (i.e., about equal to that in plasma), sodium moves and large intestine by a brush border membrane chloride- down this steep electrochemical gradient from the chyme bicarbonate exchanger (see Figure 66-8 ). Chloride exits through the brush border of the epithelial cell into the the cell on the basolateral membrane through chloride epithelial cell cytoplasm. Sodium is also co- transported channels. through the brush border membrane by several specific carrier proteins, including the following: (1) the sodium- Absorption of Bicarbonate Ions in the Duodenum glucose co- transporter 1 (SGLT1); (2) sodium–amino and Jejunum. Often large quantities of bicarbonate acid co- transporters; and (3) the sodium- hydrogen ions (HCO −) must be reabsorbed from the upper small 3 exchanger. These transporters function similarly as in the intestine because large amounts of HCO − have been 3 renal tubules, described in Chapter 28, and provide still secreted into the duodenum in both pancreatic secre- more sodium ions to be transported by the epithelial cells tion and bile. The HCO − is absorbed in an indirect way 3 into the interstitial fluid and paracellular spaces. At the as follows: When sodium ions are absorbed, moderate same time, they also provide secondary active absorp- amounts of H+ are secreted into the lumen of the gut tion of glucose and amino
