Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


When sodium ions are absorbed, moderate same time, they also provide secondary active absorp- amounts of H+ are secreted into the lumen of the gut tion of glucose and amino acids, powered by the active in exchange for some of the sodium. These H+, in turn, sodium- potassium (Na+- K+) ATPase pump on the baso- combine with the HCO − to form carbonic acid (H CO ), 3 2 3 lateral membrane. which then dissociates to form water and carbon dioxide (CO ). The water remains as part of the chyme in the 2 Osmosis of the Water. The next step in the transport intestines, but the CO is readily absorbed into the blood 2 process is osmosis of water by transcellular and paracellu- and subsequently expired through the lungs. This pro- lar pathways. This osmosis occurs because a large osmotic cess is the so- called “active absorption of HCO −.” It is 3 gradient has been created by the elevated concentration the same mechanism that occurs in the tubules of the of ions in the paracellular space. Much of this osmosis kidneys (see Chapter 31). occurs through the tight junctions between the apical borders of the epithelial cells (the paracellular pathway), Secretion of Bicarbonate and Absorption of Chlo- but much also occurs through the cells themselves—the ride Ions in the Ileum and Large Intestine. The transcellular pathway. Osmotic movement of water cre- epithelial cells on the surfaces of the villi in the ileum, ates flow of fluid into and through the paracellular spaces as well as on all surfaces of the large intestine, have a and, finally, into the circulating blood of the villus. special capability of secreting HCO − in exchange for 3 absorption of chloride ions (see Figure 66-8 ). This ca- Aldosterone Greatly Enhances Sodium Absorp- pability is important because it provides alkaline HCO − 3 tion. When a person becomes dehydrated, large that neutralizes acid products formed by bacteria in the amounts of aldosterone are secreted by the cortices large intestine. 829 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Extreme Secretion of Chloride Ions, Sodium Ions, and PARACELLULAR INTESTINE Water From the Large Intestine Epithelium in Some Types SPACE CELLS LUMEN of Diarrhea. Immature epithelial cells that continually divide to form new epithelial cells are found deep in the spaces between the intestinal epithelial folds. These new epithelial cells spread outward over the luminal surfaces of
