Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that continually divide to form new epithelial cells are found deep in the spaces between the intestinal epithelial folds. These new epithelial cells spread outward over the luminal surfaces of Na+ Na+ the intestines. While still in the deep folds, the epithelial ATP SGLT1 Glucose cells secrete sodium chloride and water into the intestinal K+ lumen. This secretion, in turn, is reabsorbed by the older Na+ SGLT1 epithelial cells outside the folds, thus providing flow of wa- Glucose Galactose ter for absorbing intestinal digestates. GLUT2 Galactose The toxins of cholera and of some other types of diar- Fructose GLUT5 Fructose rheal bacteria can stimulate the epithelial fold secretion so greatly that this secretion often becomes much greater than can be reabsorbed, thus sometimes causing a loss of 5 to 10 liters of water and sodium chloride as diarrhea each day. Within 1 to 5 days, many severely affected patients die of this loss of fluid alone. Figure 66- 9. Absorption of glucose, galactose, and fructose through the intestinal epithelium. ATP, Adenosine triphosphate; GLUT2, Glu- Extreme diarrheal secretion is initiated by entry of a subu- cose transporter 2; GLUT5, glucose transporter 5; SGLT1, sodium- nit of cholera toxin into the epithelial cells. This subunit stim- glucose co- transporter 1. ulates formation of excess cyclic adenosine monophosphate, which opens tremendous numbers of chloride channels, al- lowing chloride ions to flow rapidly from inside the cell into ABSORPTION OF NUTRIENTS the intestinal crypts. In turn, this action is believed to activate a sodium pump that pumps sodium ions into the crypts to Carbohydrates Are Mainly Absorbed as go along with the chloride ions. Finally, all this extra sodium Monosaccharides chloride causes extreme osmosis of water from the blood, thus providing rapid flow of fluid along with the salt. All this Essentially all the carbohydrates in food are absorbed in the excess fluid washes away most of the bacteria and is of value form of monosaccharides; only a small fraction is absorbed as in combating the disease, but too much of a good thing can disaccharides and almost none is absorbed as larger carbohy- be lethal because of serious dehydration of the whole body drate compounds. By far the most abundant of the absorbed that might ensue. In most instances, the life of a person with monosaccharides is glucose, which usually accounts for more cholera can be saved by the administration of tremendous than
