Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that might ensue. In most instances, the life of a person with monosaccharides is glucose, which usually accounts for more cholera can be saved by the administration of tremendous than 80% of the carbohydrate calories absorbed. The reason amounts of sodium chloride solution to make up for the loss. for this high percentage is that glucose is the final diges- tion product of our most abundant carbohydrate food, the Active Absorption of Calcium, Iron, Potassium, Mag- starches. The remaining 20% of absorbed monosaccharides nesium, and Phosphate. Calcium ions are actively ab- is composed almost entirely of galactose and fructose—the sorbed into the blood, especially from the duodenum, and galactose derived from milk and the fructose as one of the the amount of calcium ion absorption is exactly controlled monosaccharides digested from cane sugar. to supply the daily need of the body for calcium. One im- Virtually all the monosaccharides are absorbed by a portant factor controlling calcium absorption is parathy- secondary active transport process. We will first discuss roid hormone secreted by the parathyroid glands, and an- the absorption of glucose. other is vitamin D. Parathyroid hormone activates vitamin D, and the activated vitamin D in turn greatly enhances cal- Glucose Is Transported by a Sodium Co-T ransport cium absorption. These effects are discussed in Chapter 80. Mechanism. In the absence of sodium transport through Iron ions are also actively absorbed from the small the intestinal membrane, virtually no glucose can be ab- intestine. The principles of iron absorption and regulation sorbed because glucose absorption occurs in a co- transport of its absorption in proportion to the body’s need for iron, mode with active transport of sodium (Figure 66- 9). especially for the formation of hemoglobin, are discussed The transport of sodium and glucose through the intes- in Chapter 33. tinal membrane occurs in two stages. First is active trans- Potassium, magnesium, phosphate, and probably still port of sodium ions through the basolateral membranes other ions can also be actively absorbed through the of the intestinal epithelial cells into the interstitial fluid, intestinal mucosa. In general, the monovalent ions are thereby depleting sodium inside the epithelial cells. Sec- absorbed with ease and in great quantities. Bivalent ions ond, a decrease of sodium inside the cells causes sodium are normally absorbed in only small amounts; for exam- from the intestinal lumen to move through the brush bor- ple, maximum absorption of
