Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of sodium inside the cells causes sodium are normally absorbed in only small amounts; for exam- from the intestinal lumen to move through the brush bor- ple, maximum absorption of calcium ions is only 1⁄50th as der of the epithelial cells to the cell interiors by a process of great as the normal absorption of sodium ions. Fortu- secondary active transport. That is, a sodium ion combines nately, only small quantities of the bivalent ions are nor- with a transport protein, SGLT1, which will not transport mally required daily by the body. sodium to the cell interior until SGLT1 also combines 830 Chapter 66 Digestion and Absorption in the Gastrointestinal Tract Absorption of Fats with glucose. Intestinal glucose also combines simultane- ously with SGLT1 and both the sodium ion and glucose Earlier in this chapter, we pointed out that when fats are molecule are then transported together to the interior of digested to form monoglycerides and free fatty acids, both the cell. Thus, the low concentration of sodium inside the of these digestive end products first become dissolved in the cell literally “drags” sodium to the interior of the cell, and central lipid portions of bile micelles. Because the molecular glucose is dragged along with it. Once inside the epithe- dimensions of these micelles are only 3 to 6 nanometers in lial cell, another transport protein, glucose transporter 2 diameter, and because of their highly charged exterior, they (GLUT2) facilitates diffusion of the glucose through the are soluble in chyme. In this form, the monoglycerides and cell’s basolateral membrane into the paracellular space and free fatty acids are carried to the surfaces of the microvilli from there into the blood (see Figure 66- 9). of the intestinal cell brush border and then penetrate into To summarize, it is the initial active transport of the recesses among the moving, agitating microvilli. Here, sodium through the basolateral membranes of the intes- both the monoglycerides and fatty acids diffuse immediately tinal epithelial cells that provides the eventual force for out of the micelles and into the interior of the epithelial cells, moving glucose through the membranes as well. which is possible because the lipids are also soluble in the epithelial cell membrane. This process leaves the bile micelles Absorption of Other Monosaccharides. Galactose is still in the chyme, where they function again and again to transported by almost exactly the same mechanism as
