Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


process leaves the bile micelles Absorption of Other Monosaccharides. Galactose is still in the chyme, where they function again and again to transported by almost exactly the same mechanism as glu- help absorb still more monoglycerides and fatty acids. cose, using the SGLT1 and GLUT2 transporters to cross the Thus, the micelles perform a “ferrying” function that luminal and basolateral membranes, respectively (see Figure is highly important for fat absorption. In the presence 66- 9). Fructose transport does not occur by the sodium co- of an abundance of bile micelles, about 97% of the fat is transport mechanism. Instead, fructose is transported by absorbed; in the absence of the bile micelles, only 40% to facilitated diffusion all the way through the intestinal epithe- 50% can be absorbed. lium and is not coupled with sodium transport. Transport After entering the epithelial cell, the fatty acids and of fructose from the intestinal lumen to the cell interior is monoglycerides are taken up by the cell’s smooth endo- facilitated by GLUT5 and exit of fructose from the cell to the plasmic reticulum. Here, they are mainly used to form paracellular space is facilitated by GLUT2 (see Figure 66- 9). new triglycerides that are subsequently released in the Some of the fructose, upon entering the cell, becomes form of chylomicrons through the base of the epithelial phosphorylated. It is then converted to glucose and finally cell, to flow upward through the thoracic lymph duct and transported in the form of glucose the rest of the way into empty into the circulating blood. the blood. Because fructose is not co- transported with sodium, its overall rate of transport is only about one-half Direct Absorption of Fatty Acids Into the Portal Blood. that of glucose or galactose. Small quantities of short- and medium-c hain fatty acids, such as those from butterfat, are absorbed directly into the Absorption of Proteins as Dipeptides, portal blood rather than being converted into triglycerides Tripeptides, or Amino Acids and absorbed by way of the lymphatics. The cause of this As explained earlier, most proteins, after digestion, are difference between short- and long-c hain fatty acid absorp- absorbed through the luminal membranes of the intestinal tion is that the short-c hain fatty acids are more water solu- epithelial cells in the form of dipeptides, tripeptides, and a ble and mostly are not reconverted into triglycerides by the few free amino acids. The
