Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


acids are more water solu- epithelial cells in the form of dipeptides, tripeptides, and a ble and mostly are not reconverted into triglycerides by the few free amino acids. The energy for most of this transport endoplasmic reticulum. This phenomenon allows diffusion is supplied by a sodium co- transport mechanism in the of these short-c hain fatty acids from the intestinal epithelial same way that sodium co- transport of glucose occurs. That cells directly into the capillary blood of the intestinal villi. is, most peptide or amino acid molecules bind in the cell’s microvillus membrane with a specific transport protein that ABSORPTION IN THE LARGE INTESTINE: requires sodium binding before transport can occur. After FORMATION OF FECES binding, the sodium ion then moves down its electrochemi- cal gradient to the interior of the cell and pulls the amino acid About 1500 ml of chyme normally pass through the or peptide along with it. This process is called co- transport ileocecal valve into the large intestine each day. Most of (or secondary active transport) of the amino acids and pep- the water and electrolytes in this chyme are absorbed tides (see Figure 66- 8). A few amino acids do not require in the colon, usually leaving less than 100 ml of fluid to this sodium co- transport mechanism but instead are trans- be excreted in the feces. Also, essentially all the ions are ported by special membrane transport proteins in the same absorbed, leaving only 1 to 5 mEq each of sodium and way that fructose is transported, by facilitated diffusion. chloride ions to be lost in the feces. At least 10 different types of transport proteins for Most of the absorption in the large intestine occurs amino acids and peptides have been found in the intestinal in the proximal half of the colon, giving this portion the epithelial cells. This multiplicity of transport proteins name absorbing colon, whereas the distal colon functions is required because of the diverse binding properties of principally for feces storage until a propitious time for different amino acids and peptides. feces excretion and is therefore called the storage colon. 831 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Absorption and Secretion of Electrolytes and Water. Composition of the Feces. The feces normally are The mucosa of the large intestine, like that of the small about three-f ourths water and one- fourth solid mat- intestine, has a high
