Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the Feces. The feces normally are The mucosa of the large intestine, like that of the small about three-f ourths water and one- fourth solid mat- intestine, has a high capability for active absorption of so- ter that is composed of about 30% dead bacteria, 10% dium, and the electrical potential gradient created by so- to 20% fat, 10% to 20% inorganic matter, 2% to 3% pro- dium absorption causes chloride absorption as well. The tein, and 30% undigested roughage from the food and tight junctions between the epithelial cells of the large dried constituents of digestive juices, such as bile pig- intestinal epithelium are much tighter than those of the ment and sloughed epithelial cells. The brown color of small intestine. This characteristic prevents significant feces is caused by stercobilin and urobilin, derivatives amounts of back-d iffusion of ions through these junc- of bilirubin. The odor is caused principally by products tions, thus allowing the large intestinal mucosa to absorb of bacterial action; these products vary from one person sodium ions far more completely—that is, against a much to another, depending on each person’s colonic bacterial higher concentration gradient—than can occur in the flora and on the type of food eaten. The actual odorif- small intestine. This is especially true when large quan- erous products include indole, skatole, mercaptans, and tities of aldosterone are available because aldosterone hydrogen sulfide. greatly enhances sodium transport capability. In addition, as occurs in the distal portion of the Bibliography small intestine, the mucosa of the large intestine secretes HCO 3− while it simultaneously absorbs an equal number Abumrad NA: Intestinal CD36 and other key proteins of lipid utiliza- of chloride ions in an exchange transport process (already tion: role in absorption and gut homeostasis. Compr Physiol 8:493, 2018. described). The HCO3− helps neutralize the acidic end Bröer S: Amino acid transport across mammalian intestinal and renal products of bacterial action in the large intestine. epithelia. Physiol Rev 88:249, 2008. Absorption of sodium and chloride ions creates an Bröer S, Fairweather SJ: Amino acid transport across the mammalian osmotic gradient across the large intestinal mucosa, intestine. Compr Physiol 9:343, 2018. which in turn causes absorption of water. Cifarelli V, Eichmann A: The intestinal lymphatic system: functions and metabolic implications. Cell Mol Gastroenterol Hepatol 7:503, Maximum Absorption Capacity of the Large Intes- 2019. Ferraris RP, Choe JY, Patel CR: Intestinal absorption of fructose. Annu tine.
