Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


P, Carreiro AL, Buhman KK, Lewis GF: Recent advances ous gases that contribute to flatus in the colon, especially in triacylglycerol mobilization by the gut. Trends Endocrinol Metab CO , hydrogen gas, and methane. The bacteria- formed vi- 2 29:151, 2018. tamin K is especially important because the amount of this vitamin in the daily ingested foods is normally insufficient to maintain adequate blood coagulation. 832 CHAPTER 6 7 Physiology of Gastrointestinal Disorders Effective therapy for most gastrointestinal disorders When achalasia becomes severe, the esophagus often depends on a basic knowledge of gastrointestinal physiol- cannot empty the swallowed food into the stomach for ogy. The purpose of this chapter is to discuss a few repre- many hours, instead of the few seconds that is the normal time. Over months and years, the esophagus becomes tre- sentative types of gastrointestinal malfunction that have mendously enlarged until it often can hold as much as 1 special physiological bases or consequences. liter of food, which often becomes putridly infected dur- ing the long periods of esophageal stasis. The infection may Disorders of Swallowing and the Esophagus also cause ulceration of the esophageal mucosa, sometimes Paralysis of the Swallowing Mechanism. Damage to the leading to severe substernal pain or even rupture and death. Considerable benefit can be achieved by stretching the low- fifth, ninth, or tenth cerebral nerve can cause paralysis of sig- er end of the esophagus with a balloon inflated on the end nificant portions of the swallowing mechanism. In addition, of a swallowed esophageal tube. Antispasmodic drugs (i.e., a few diseases, such as poliomyelitis or encephalitis, can pre- drugs that relax smooth muscle) can also be helpful. vent normal swallowing by damaging the swallowing center in the brain stem. Paralysis of the swallowing muscles, as oc- Disorders of the Stomach curs in persons with muscle dystrophy or as a result of failure Gastritis—Inflammation of the Gastric Mucosa of neuromuscular transmission in persons with myasthenia gravis or botulism, can also prevent normal swallowing. Mild to moderate chronic gastritis is especially common in When the swallowing mechanism is partially or totally the middle to later years of adult life. paralyzed, the abnormalities that can occur include the fol- The inflammation of gastritis may be only superficial lowing: (1) complete abrogation of the swallowing act so and therefore not very harmful, or it can penetrate deeply that swallowing cannot occur, (2) failure of the
