Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


be only superficial lowing: (1) complete abrogation of the swallowing act so and therefore not very harmful, or it can penetrate deeply that swallowing cannot occur, (2) failure of the glottis to into the gastric mucosa, in many long- standing cases caus- close so that food passes into the lungs instead of the es- ing almost complete atrophy of the gastric mucosa. In a ophagus, and (3) failure of the soft palate and uvula to close few cases, gastritis can be acute and severe, with ulcerative the posterior nares so that food refluxes into the nose dur- excoriation of the stomach mucosa by the stomach’s own ing swallowing. peptic secretions. One of the most serious instances of paralysis of the Research suggests that gastritis often is caused by swallowing mechanism occurs when patients are in a state chronic bacterial infection of the gastric mucosa. This con- of deep anesthesia. While on the operating table, they dition often can be treated successfully with an intensive sometimes vomit large quantities of materials from the regimen of antibacterial therapy. stomach into the pharynx; then, instead of swallowing the In addition, certain ingested irritant substances can materials again, they simply suck them into the trachea be- be especially damaging to the protective gastric mucosal cause the anesthetic has blocked the reflex mechanism of barrier—that is, to the mucous glands and to the tight swallowing. As a result, such patients may choke to death epithelial junctions between the gastric lining cells—often on their own vomitus. leading to severe acute or chronic gastritis. Two of the Achalasia and Megaesophagus. Achalasia is a condi- most common of these substances are excesses of alcohol tion in which the lower esophageal sphincter fails to relax or aspirin. Increased Permeability of the Gastric Barrier in Gas- during swallowing. As a result, food swallowed into the es- ophagus fails to pass from the esophagus into the stomach. tritis. Absorption of food from the stomach directly into Pathophysiological studies have shown damage in the neu- the blood is normally slight. This low level of absorption is ral network of the myenteric plexus in the lower two-thirds mainly due to two specific features of the gastric mucosa: of the esophagus. As a result, the musculature of the lower (1) it is lined with highly resistant mucous cells that secrete esophagus remains spastically contracted, and the myen- viscid and adherent mucus, and (2) it
