Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the musculature of the lower (1) it is lined with highly resistant mucous cells that secrete esophagus remains spastically contracted, and the myen- viscid and adherent mucus, and (2) it has tight junctions teric plexus has lost its ability to transmit a signal to cause between the adjacent epithelial cells. These two features “receptive relaxation” of the gastroesophageal sphincter as together plus other impediments to gastric absorption are food approaches this sphincter during swallowing. called the “gastric barrier.” 833 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology The gastric barrier normally is resistant enough to dif- fusion so that even the highly concentrated hydrogen ions Causes: Cardia of the gastric juice, averaging about 100,000 times the con- 1. High acid and pepsin content 2. Irritation centration of hydrogen ions in plasma, seldom diffuse even 3. Poor blood supply to the slightest extent through the lining mucus as far as the 4. Poor secretion of mucus epithelial membrane. In gastritis, the permeability of the 5. Infection (H. pylori ) Ulcer barrier is greatly increased. The hydrogen ions then diffuse sites into the stomach epithelium, creating additional havoc and leading to a vicious circle of progressive stomach mucosal Pylorus damage and atrophy. It also makes the mucosa susceptible to digestion by the peptic digestive enzymes, thus frequent- ly resulting in a gastric ulcer. Chronic Gastritis Can Lead to Gastric Atrophy and Loss of Stomach Secretions Marginal ulcer In many people who have chronic gastritis, the mucosa Figure 67- 1. Causes and most frequent locations of peptic ulcer. H. gradually becomes more and more atrophic until little or pylori, Helicobacter pylori. no gastric gland digestive secretion remains. It is also be- lieved that in some people autoimmunity develops against the gastric mucosa, which also leads eventually to gastric ach juices frequently reflux. A type of peptic ulcer called a atrophy. Loss of the stomach secretions in gastric atrophy marginal ulcer also often occurs wherever a surgical open- leads to achlorhydria and, occasionally, to pernicious ane- ing such as a gastrojejunostomy has been made between mia. the stomach and the jejunum of the small intestine. Achlorhydria (and Hypochlorhydria). Achlorhydria Basic Cause of Peptic Ulceration. The usual cause of means that the stomach fails to secrete hydrochloric acid; peptic ulceration is an imbalance between the rate of gas- it is diagnosed when the pH of the gastric secretions fails tric juice secretion and the degree of protection
