Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


acid; peptic ulceration is an imbalance between the rate of gas- it is diagnosed when the pH of the gastric secretions fails tric juice secretion and the degree of protection afforded to decrease below 6.5 after maximal stimulation. Hypochlo- by (1) the gastroduodenal mucosal barrier and (2) the neu- rhydria means diminished acid secretion. When acid is not tralization of the gastric acid by duodenal juices. All areas secreted, pepsin also usually is not secreted. Even when it normally exposed to gastric juice are well supplied with is secreted, the lack of acid prevents it from functioning mucous glands, beginning with compound mucous glands because pepsin requires an acid medium for activity. in the lower esophagus plus the mucous cell coating of Gastric Atrophy May Cause Pernicious Anemia. Perni- the stomach mucosa, the mucous neck cells of the gastric cious anemia commonly accompanies gastric atrophy and glands, the deep pyloric glands that secrete mainly mucus, achlorhydria. Normal gastric secretions contain a glyco- and, finally, the glands of Brunner of the upper duodenum, protein called intrinsic factor, secreted by the same parietal which secrete a highly alkaline mucus. cells that secrete hydrochloric acid. Intrinsic factor must In addition to the mucus protection of the mucosa, be present for adequate absorption of vitamin B from the the duodenum is protected by the alkalinity of the small 12 ileum. That is, intrinsic factor combines with vitamin B intestinal secretions. Especially important is pancreatic 12 in the stomach and protects it from being digested and de- secretion, which contains large quantities of sodium bi- stroyed as it passes into the small intestine. Then, when the carbonate that neutralize the hydrochloric acid of the intrinsic factor–vitamin B complex reaches the terminal gastric juice, thus also inactivating pepsin and prevent- 12 ileum, the intrinsic factor binds with receptors on the ileal ing digestion of the mucosa. In addition, large amounts of epithelial surface, which in turn makes it possible for the bicarbonate ions are provided in (1) the secretions of the vitamin B to be absorbed. large Brunner’s glands in the first few centimeters of the 12 In the absence of intrinsic factor, only about 1/50th of duodenal wall and (2) bile coming from the liver. the vitamin B is absorbed. In addition, without intrin- Finally, two feedback control mechanisms normally en- 12 sic factor, an adequate amount of vitamin B is not made sure that
