Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the vitamin B is absorbed. In addition, without intrin- Finally, two feedback control mechanisms normally en- 12 sic factor, an adequate amount of vitamin B is not made sure that this neutralization of gastric juices is complete, 12 available from the foods to cause young, newly forming as follows: red blood cells to mature in the bone marrow. The result 1. W hen excess acid enters the duodenum, it inhibits is pernicious anemia. This is discussed in more detail in gastric secretion and peristalsis in the stomach, by Chapter 33. nervous reflexes and by hormonal feedback from the duodenum, thereby decreasing the rate of gas- Peptic Ulcer tric emptying. A peptic ulcer is an excoriated area of stomach or intes- 2. Th e presence of acid in the small intestine liber- tinal mucosa caused principally by the digestive action of ates secretin from the intestinal mucosa, which then gastric juice or upper small intestinal secretions. Figure passes by way of the blood to the pancreas to pro- 67-1 shows the points in the gastrointestinal tract at which mote rapid secretion of pancreatic juice. This juice peptic ulcers most frequently occur, demonstrating that also contains a high concentration of sodium bicar- the most frequent site is within a few centimeters of the bonate, thus making additional sodium bicarbonate pylorus. In addition, peptic ulcers frequently occur along available for neutralization of the acid. the lesser curvature of the antral end of the stomach or, Therefore, a peptic ulcer can be caused in either of two more rarely, in the lower end of the esophagus where stom- ways: (1) excess secretion of acid and pepsin by the gastric 834 Chapter 67 Physiology of Gastrointestinal Disorders mucosa or (2) diminished ability of the gastroduodenal mu- creatic duct is blocked by a gallstone at the papilla of Vater, cosal barrier to protect against the digestive properties of or (3) after the head of the pancreas has been removed be- the stomach acid–pepsin secretion. cause of malignancy. Loss of pancreatic juice means loss of trypsin, chymo- Specific Causes of Peptic Ulcer trypsin, carboxypolypeptidase, pancreatic amylase, pan- Bacterial Infection by Helicobacter pylori Breaks Down creatic lipase, and a few other digestive enzymes. Without the Gastroduodenal Mucosal Barrier and Stimulates Gas- these enzymes, up to 60% of the fat entering the small intes- tric Acid Secretion. At least 75% of persons with peptic tine may not be absorbed,
