Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and Stimulates Gas- these enzymes, up to 60% of the fat entering the small intes- tric Acid Secretion. At least 75% of persons with peptic tine may not be absorbed, along with one-third to one-half ulcers have been found to have chronic infection of the ter- of the proteins and carbohydrates. As a result, large por- minal portions of the gastric mucosa and initial portions of tions of the ingested food cannot be used for nutrition and the duodenal mucosa, most often caused by the bacterium copious, fatty feces are excreted. Helicobacter pylori. Once this infection begins, it can last Pancreatitis—Inflammation of the Pancreas. Pancrea- a lifetime unless it is eradicated by antibacterial therapy. titis can occur in the form of either acute pancreatitis or Furthermore, the bacterium is capable of penetrating the chronic pancreatitis. mucosal barrier by virtue of its physical capability to bur- The most common cause of pancreatitis is drinking ex- row through the barrier and by releasing ammonium that cess alcohol, and the second most common cause is block- liquefies the barrier and stimulates secretion of hydrochlo- age of the papilla of Vater by a gallstone. These two causes ric acid. As a result, the strong acidic digestive juices of the together account for more than 75% of all cases of acute stomach secretions can then penetrate into the underlying pancreatitis. epithelium and literally digest the gastrointestinal wall, thus When a gallstone blocks the papilla of Vater, the main leading to peptic ulceration. secretory duct from the pancreas and the common bile duct Other Causes of Ulceration. In many people who have are blocked. The pancreatic enzymes are then dammed up peptic ulcers in the initial portion of the duodenum, the in the ducts and acini of the pancreas. Eventually, so much rate of gastric acid secretion is greater than normal—some- trypsinogen accumulates that it overcomes the trypsin in- times as much as twice normal. Although part of this in- hibitor in the secretions, and a small quantity of trypsino- creased secretion may be stimulated by bacterial infection, gen becomes activated to form trypsin. Once this hap- studies in both animals and human beings have shown that pens, the trypsin activates additional trypsinogen, as well excess secretion of gastric juices for any reason (e.g., even as chymotrypsinogen and carboxypolypeptidase, resulting in psychic disturbances) may cause peptic ulceration. in a vicious circle until most of the proteolytic
