Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


secretion of gastric juices for any reason (e.g., even as chymotrypsinogen and carboxypolypeptidase, resulting in psychic disturbances) may cause peptic ulceration. in a vicious circle until most of the proteolytic enzymes in Other factors that predispose to ulcers include the fol- the pancreatic ducts and acini become activated. These en- lowing: (1) smoking, presumably because of increased nerv- zymes rapidly digest large portions of the pancreas, some- ous stimulation of the stomach secretory glands; (2) excess times completely and permanently destroying the ability of consumption of alcohol, because it tends to break down the pancreas to secrete digestive enzymes. the mucosal barrier; and (3) consumption of aspirin and Chronic pancreatitis is an ongoing inflammatory and fi- other nonsteroidal anti-i nflammatory drugs that also have brotic condition of the pancreas that may result from relaps- a strong propensity for breaking down this barrier. ing bouts of acute pancreatitis associated with gallstones or Treatment of Peptic Ulcers. Since the discovery that excessive alcohol consumption. Other factors than can con- much peptic ulceration has a bacterial infectious basis, tribute to chronic pancreatitis include smoking, high levels therapy has changed immensely. Almost all patients with of triglycerides, or autoimmune-m ediate inflammation. peptic ulceration can be treated effectively by two meas- Malabsorption by the Small Intestinal Mucosa—Sprue ures: (1) use of antibiotics along with other agents to kill infectious bacteria; and (2) administration of an acid- Occasionally, nutrients are not adequately absorbed from suppressant drug, especially ranitidine, which is an antihis- the small intestine even though the food has been well di- taminic agent that blocks the stimulatory effect of hista- gested. Several diseases can cause decreased absorption mine on gastric gland histamine receptors, thus reducing by the mucosa; they are often classified together under the 2 gastric acid secretion by 70% to 80%. general term “sprue.” Malabsorption also can occur when These physiological approaches to therapy have proven large portions of the small intestine have been removed. to be effective in most patients. In a few cases, however, the Nontropical Sprue. One type of sprue, called variously patient’s condition is so severe, including massive bleeding celiac disease, idiopathic sprue, or gluten enteropathy, re- from the ulcer, that heroic operative procedures must be sults from the toxic effects of gluten present in certain types used; these procedures include removal of part of the stom- of grains, especially wheat and rye. Only some people are ach
