Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the toxic effects of gluten present in certain types used; these procedures include removal of part of the stom- of grains, especially wheat and rye. Only some people are ach or cutting the two vagus nerves that supply parasympa- susceptible to this effect, but in those who are susceptible, thetic stimulation to the gastric glands. gluten has a direct destructive effect on intestinal entero- cytes. In milder forms of the disease, only the microvilli of Disorders of the Small Intestine the absorbing enterocytes on the villi are destroyed, thus Abnormal Digestion of Food in the Small Intestine— decreasing the absorptive surface area as much as twofold. Pancreatic Failure In the more severe forms, the villi become blunted or dis- A serious cause of abnormal digestion is failure of the pan- appear altogether, thus still further reducing the absorptive creas to secrete pancreatic juice into the small intestine. area of the gut. Removal of wheat and rye flour from the Lack of pancreatic secretion frequently occurs (1) in per- diet frequently results in a cure within weeks, especially in sons with pancreatitis (discussed later), (2) when the pan- children with this disease. 835 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology Tropical Sprue. A different type of sprue called tropi- One cause of megacolon is lack of or deficiency of gan- cal sprue frequently occurs in the tropics and can often be glion cells in the myenteric plexus in a segment of the sig- treated with antibacterial agents. Even though no specific moid colon. As a consequence, neither defecation reflexes bacterium has been implicated as the cause, it is believed nor strong peristaltic motility can occur in this area of the that this variety of sprue is usually caused by inflammation large intestine. The sigmoid becomes small and almost of the intestinal mucosa resulting from unidentified infec- spastic while feces accumulate proximal to this area, caus- tious agents. ing megacolon in the ascending, transverse, and descend- Malabsorption in Sprue. In the early stages of sprue, ing colons. intestinal absorption of fat is more impaired than is absorp- Diarrhea tion of other digestive products. The fat that appears in the stools is almost entirely in the form of salts of fatty acids Diarrhea results from rapid movement of fecal matter rather than undigested fat, demonstrating that the problem through the large intestine. Several causes of diarrhea with is one of absorption, not of digestion.
