Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


from rapid movement of fecal matter rather than undigested fat, demonstrating that the problem through the large intestine. Several causes of diarrhea with is one of absorption, not of digestion. In fact, the condition important physiological sequelae are the following. is frequently called steatorrhea, which means simply excess Enteritis—Inflammation of the Intestinal Tract. Enteritis fats in the stools. means inflammation usually caused either by viruses or bac- In severe cases of sprue, in addition to malabsorption of teria in the intestinal tract. In usual infectious diarrhea, the fats, impaired absorption of proteins, carbohydrates, cal- infection is most extensive in the large intestine and the dis- cium, vitamin K, folic acid, and vitamin B 12 also occurs. As tal end of the ileum. Everywhere the infection is present, the a result, the person experiences the following: (1) severe mucosa becomes irritated, and its rate of secretion becomes nutritional deficiency, which often results in wasting of the greatly enhanced. In addition, motility of the intestinal wall body; (2) osteomalacia (i.e., demineralization of the bones usually increases markedly. As a result, large quantities of because of lack of calcium); (3) inadequate blood coagula- fluid are made available for washing the infectious agent to- tion caused by lack of vitamin K; and (4) macrocytic ane- ward the anus, and at the same time strong propulsive move- mia of the pernicious anemia type, resulting from dimin- ments propel this fluid forward. This mechanism is impor- ished vitamin B 12 and folic acid absorption. tant for ridding the intestinal tract of a debilitating infection. Of special interest is diarrhea caused by cholera (and Disorders of the Large Intestine less often by other bacteria such as some pathogenic colon Constipation bacilli). As explained in Chapter 66, cholera toxin directly Constipation means slow movement of feces through the stimulates excessive secretion of electrolytes and fluid from large intestine. Constipation is often associated with large the crypts of Lieberkühn in the distal ileum and colon. The quantities of dry, hard feces in the descending colon that amount can be 10 to 12 liters per day, although the colon accumulate because of excess absorption of fluid or insuf- can usually reabsorb a maximum of only 6 to 8 liters per ficient fluid intake. Any pathology of the intestines that ob- day. Therefore, loss of fluid and electrolytes can be so de- structs movement of intestinal contents, such as tumors, bilitating
