Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ficient fluid intake. Any pathology of the intestines that ob- day. Therefore, loss of fluid and electrolytes can be so de- structs movement of intestinal contents, such as tumors, bilitating within several days that death can ensue. adhesions that constrict the intestines, or ulcers, can cause The most important physiological basis of therapy in constipation. cholera is to replace the fluid and electrolytes as rapidly Infants are seldom constipated, but part of their training as they are lost, mainly by giving the patient intravenous in the early years of life requires that they learn to control solutions. With proper therapy, along with the use of an- defecation; this control is effected by inhibiting the natural tibiotics, almost no persons with cholera die, but without defecation reflexes. Clinical experience shows that if one therapy, up to 50% of patients die. does not allow defecation to occur when the defecation re- Psychogenic Diarrhea. Most people are familiar with flexes are excited or if one overuses laxatives to take the the diarrhea that accompanies periods of nervous tension, place of natural bowel function, the reflexes become pro- such as during examination time or when a soldier is about gressively weaker over months or years, and the colon be- to go into battle. This type of diarrhea, called psychogenic comes atonic. emotional diarrhea, is caused by excessive stimulation of Constipation can also result from spasm of a small seg- the parasympathetic nervous system, which greatly excites ment of the sigmoid colon. Motility normally is weak in the both (1) motility and (2) excess secretion of mucus in the large intestine, so even a slight degree of spasm may cause distal colon. These two effects added together can cause serious constipation. After the constipation has continued marked diarrhea. for several days and excess feces have accumulated above Ulcerative Colitis. Ulcerative colitis is a disease in which a spastic sigmoid colon, excessive colonic secretions often extensive areas of the walls of the large intestine become in- then lead to a day or so of diarrhea. After this, the cycle flamed and ulcerated. The motility of the ulcerated colon is begins again, with repeated bouts of alternating constipa- often so great that mass movements occur much of the day tion and diarrhea. rather than for the usual 10 to 30 minutes. Also, the colon’s Megacolon (Hirschsprung’s Disease). Occasionally, con- secretions are greatly enhanced. As a result, the
