Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the day tion and diarrhea. rather than for the usual 10 to 30 minutes. Also, the colon’s Megacolon (Hirschsprung’s Disease). Occasionally, con- secretions are greatly enhanced. As a result, the patient has stipation is so severe that bowel movements occur only once repeated diarrheal bowel movements. every several days or sometimes only once a week. This phe- The cause of ulcerative colitis is unclear. Some clinicians nomenon allows tremendous quantities of fecal matter to ac- believe that it results from an allergic or immune destruc- cumulate in the colon, causing the colon sometimes to distend tive effect, but it also could result from a chronic bacterial to a diameter of 3 to 4 inches. The condition is called megaco- infection not yet understood. Whatever the cause, there is lon, or Hirschsprung’s disease. a strong hereditary tendency for susceptibility to ulcerative 836 Chapter 67 Physiology of Gastrointestinal Disorders colitis. Once the condition has progressed far, the ulcers Apomorphine, seldom will heal until an ileostomy is performed to allow morphine Chemoreceptor trigger zone the small intestinal contents to drain to the exterior rather than to pass through the colon. Even then the ulcers some- “Vomiting center” times fail to heal, and the only solution might be surgical removal of the entire colon. Paralysis of Defecation in Persons With Spinal Cord Injuries As discussed in Chapter 64, defecation is normally initiated by accumulating feces in the rectum, which causes a spinal Vagal Vagal cord–mediated defecation reflex passing from the rectum afferents afferents to the conus medullaris of the spinal cord and then back to the descending colon, sigmoid, rectum, and anus. When the spinal cord is injured somewhere between the conus medullaris and the brain, the voluntary por- tion of the defecation act is blocked while the basic cord reflex for defecation is still intact. Nevertheless, loss of the Sympathetic afferents voluntary aid to defecation—that is, loss of the increased abdominal pressure and relaxation of the voluntary anal sphincter—often makes defecation a difficult process in the person with this type of upper cord injury. However, because the cord defecation reflex can still occur, a small enema to excite action of this cord reflex, usually given in the morning shortly after a meal, can often cause adequate defecation. In this way, people with spinal cord injuries that do not destroy the conus medullaris of the spinal cord can usually control their bowel movements each
