Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


often cause adequate defecation. In this way, people with spinal cord injuries that do not destroy the conus medullaris of the spinal cord can usually control their bowel movements each day. General Disorders of the Gastrointestinal Tract Vomiting Vomiting is the means by which the upper gastrointestinal tract rids itself of its contents when almost any part of the up- Figure 67- 2. Neutral connections of the “vomiting center.” This so- per tract becomes excessively irritated, overdistended, or even called vomiting center includes multiple sensory, motor, and control overexcitable. Excessive distention or irritation of the duode- nuclei mainly in the medullary and pontile reticular formation but also extending into the spinal cord. num provides an especially strong stimulus for vomiting. The sensory signals that initiate vomiting originate mainly from the pharynx, esophagus, stomach, and upper portions At the onset of vomiting, strong intrinsic contrac- of the small intestines. As shown in Figure 67- 2, the nerve tions occur in both the duodenum and the stomach, impulses are transmitted by vagal and sympathetic afferent along with partial relaxation of the esophageal- stomach nerve fibers to multiple distributed nuclei in the brain stem, sphincter, thus allowing vomitus to begin moving from especially the area postrema, that all together are called the the stomach into the esophagus. From here, a specific “vomiting center.” From here, motor impulses that cause the vomiting act involving the abdominal muscles takes over actual vomiting are transmitted from the vomiting center and expels the vomitus to the exterior, as explained be- by way of the fifth, seventh, ninth, tenth, and twelfth cranial low. nerves to the upper gastrointestinal tract, through vagal and Vomiting Act. Once the vomiting center has been suf- sympathetic nerves to the lower tract, and through spinal ficiently stimulated and the vomiting act has been insti- nerves to the diaphragm and abdominal muscles. tuted, the first effects are the following: (1) a deep breath, Antiperistalsis, the Prelude to Vomiting. In the early stag- (2) raising of the hyoid bone and larynx to pull the upper es of excessive gastrointestinal irritation or overdistention, anti- esophageal sphincter open, (3) closing of the glottis to pre- peristalsis begins to occur, often many minutes before vomiting vent vomitus flow into the lungs, and (4) lifting of the soft appears. Antiperistalsis means peristalsis up the digestive tract palate to close the posterior nares. Next comes a strong rather than downward.
