Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


into the lungs, and (4) lifting of the soft appears. Antiperistalsis means peristalsis up the digestive tract palate to close the posterior nares. Next comes a strong rather than downward. Antiperistalsis may begin as far down downward contraction of the diaphragm along with si- in the intestinal tract as the ileum, and the antiperistaltic wave multaneous contraction of all the abdominal wall muscles, travels backward up the intestine at a rate of 2 to 3 cm/sec; this which squeezes the stomach between the diaphragm and process can actually push a large share of the lower small intes- the abdominal muscles, building the intragastric pressure tine contents all the way back to the duodenum and stomach to a high level. Finally, the lower esophageal sphincter re- within 3 to 5 minutes. Then, as these upper portions of the gas- laxes completely, allowing expulsion of the gastric contents trointestinal tract, especially the duodenum, become overly dis- upward through the esophagus. tended, this distention becomes the exciting factor that initiates Thus, the vomiting act results from a squeezing action the actual vomiting act. of the muscles of the abdomen associated with simultane- 837 UNIT XII UNIT XII Gastrointestinal Physiology ous contraction of the stomach wall and opening of the Obstruction at pylorus esophageal sphincters so that the gastric contents can be causes acid vomitus Causes expelled. 1. Cancer Chemoreceptor “Trigger Zone” in the Brain Medulla for Obstruction below 2. Ulcer duodenum causes 3. Spasm Initiation of Vomiting by Drugs or by Motion Sickness. Aside neutral or basic 4. Paralytic ileus from the vomiting initiated by irritative stimuli in the gastro- vomitus 5. Adhesions intestinal tract, vomiting can also be caused by nervous signals arising in areas of the brain. This mechanism is particularly High obstruction true for a small area called the chemoreceptor trigger zone for causes extreme vomiting, located in the area postrema on the lateral walls of vomiting the fourth ventricle. Electrical stimulation of this area can initi- ate vomiting, but more importantly, administration of certain drugs, including apomorphine, morphine, and some digitalis derivatives, can directly stimulate this chemoreceptor trigger Low obstruction causes zone and initiate vomiting. Destruction of this area blocks this extreme constipation type of vomiting but does not block vomiting resulting from with less vomiting irritative stimuli in the gastrointestinal tract. Figure 67- 3. Obstruction in different parts of the gastrointestinal Furthermore, it is well known that rapidly
