Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


block vomiting resulting from with less vomiting irritative stimuli in the gastrointestinal tract. Figure 67- 3. Obstruction in different parts of the gastrointestinal Furthermore, it is well known that rapidly changing di- tract. rection or rhythm of motion of the body can cause certain people to vomit. The mechanism for this phenomenon is the following: The motion stimulates receptors in the ves- If the obstruction is near the distal end of the large intes- tibular labyrinth of the inner ear, and from here impulses tine, feces can accumulate in the colon for a week or more. The are transmitted mainly via the brain stem vestibular nuclei patient develops an intense feeling of constipation, but at first into the cerebellum, then to the chemoreceptor trigger zone, vomiting is not severe. After the large intestine has become and finally to the vomiting center to cause vomiting. completely filled and it finally becomes impossible for additional chyme to move from the small intestine into the large intestine, Nausea severe vomiting then occurs. Prolonged obstruction of the large The sensation of nausea is often a prodrome of vomiting. intestine can finally cause rupture of the intestine or dehydra- Nausea is the conscious recognition of subconscious ex- tion and circulatory shock resulting from the severe vomiting. citation in an area of the medulla closely associated with Gases in the Gastrointestinal Tract (Flatus) or part of the vomiting center. It can be caused by (1) ir- ritative impulses coming from the gastrointestinal tract, (2) Gases, called flatus, can enter the gastrointestinal tract from impulses that originate in the lower brain associated with three sources: (1) swallowed air, (2) gases formed in the gut motion sickness, or (3) impulses from the cerebral cortex to as a result of bacterial action, or (3) gases that diffuse from initiate vomiting. Vomiting occasionally occurs without the the blood into the gastrointestinal tract. Most gases in the prodromal sensation of nausea, which indicates that only stomach are mixtures of nitrogen and oxygen derived from certain portions of the vomiting center are associated with swallowed air. These gases are usually expelled by belch- the sensation of nausea. ing. Only small amounts of gas normally occur in the small intestine, and much of this gas is air that passes from the Gastrointestinal Obstruction stomach into the intestinal tract. The gastrointestinal tract can become obstructed at almost In the large intestine, bacterial action generates
