Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


this gas is air that passes from the Gastrointestinal Obstruction stomach into the intestinal tract. The gastrointestinal tract can become obstructed at almost In the large intestine, bacterial action generates most any point along its course, as shown in Figure 67- 3. Some of the gases, including especially carbon dioxide, meth- common causes of obstruction are the following: (1) can- ane, and hydrogen. When methane and hydrogen become cer, (2) fibrotic constriction resulting from ulceration or from suitably mixed with oxygen, an actual explosive mixture is peritoneal adhesions, (3) spasm of a gut segment, and (4) sometimes formed. Use of the electric cautery during sig- paralysis of a gut segment. moidoscopy has been known to cause a mild explosion. The abnormal consequences of obstruction depend on Certain foods are known to cause greater expulsion of the point in the gastrointestinal tract that becomes ob- flatus through the anus than others—beans, cabbage, on- structed. If the obstruction occurs at the pylorus, which ion, cauliflower, corn, and certain irritant foods such as often results from fibrotic constriction after peptic ulcera- vinegar. Some of these foods serve as a suitable medium tion, persistent vomiting of stomach contents occurs. This for gas- forming bacteria, especially unabsorbed ferment- vomiting depresses bodily nutrition; it also causes excessive able types of carbohydrates. For example, beans contain loss of hydrogen ions from the stomach and can result in an indigestible carbohydrate that passes into the colon and various degrees of whole- body metabolic alkalosis. becomes a superior food for colonic bacteria. But in other If the obstruction is beyond the stomach, antiperistaltic cases, excess expulsion of gas results from irritation of the reflux from the small intestine causes intestinal juices to flow large intestine, which promotes rapid peristaltic expulsion backward into the stomach, and these juices are vomited of gases through the anus before they can be absorbed. along with the stomach secretions. In this case, the person The amount of gases entering or forming in the large loses large amounts of water and electrolytes. He or she intestine each day averages 7 to 10 liters, whereas the aver- becomes severely dehydrated, but the loss of acid from the age amount expelled through the anus is usually only about stomach and base from the small intestine may be approxi- 0.6 liter. The remainder is normally absorbed into the blood mately equal, so little change in acid–base balance occurs.
