Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


enteric nervous system in health and inflammatory bowel disease. Acta Physiol (Oxf) 2019 Mar;225(3):e13163. doi: 10.1111/apha.13163. 839 UNIT XII CHAPTER 6 8 Metabolism of Carbohydrates and Formation of Adenosine Triphosphate The next few chapters deal with metabolism in the Adenosine Triphosphate Is the “Energy Currency” of the Body body—the chemical processes that make it possible for the cells to continue living. It is not the purpose of Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is an essential link between this text to present the chemical details of all the vari- energy- utilizing and energy- producing functions of the ous cellular reactions, which lie in the discipline of bio- body (Figure 68-1 ). For this reason, ATP has been called chemistry. Instead, these chapters are devoted to (1) a the “energy currency” of the body, and it can be gained and review of the principal chemical processes of the cell spent repeatedly. Energy derived from the oxidation of carbohydrates, and (2) an analysis of their physiological implications, proteins, and fats is used to convert adenosine diphosphate especially the manner in which they fit into overall body (ADP) to ATP, which is then consumed by the various reac- homeostasis. tions of the body that are necessary to maintain and propa- gate life. Release of Energy From Foods and “Free Energy” ATP is a labile chemical compound that is present in all cells. ATP is a combination of adenine, ribose, and three Many of the chemical reactions in the cells are aimed phosphate radicals, as shown in Figure 68-2 . The last two at making the energy in foods available to the various phosphate radicals are connected with the remainder of the physiological systems of the cell. For example, energy molecule by high- energy bonds, which are indicated by the is required for muscle activity, secretion by the glands, symbol ∼. maintenance of membrane potentials by the nerve and The amount of free energy in each of these high- muscle fibers, synthesis of substances in the cells, ab- energy bonds per mole of ATP is about 7300 calories sorption of foods from the gastrointestinal tract, and under standard conditions and about 12,000 calories many other functions. Coupled Reactions. All the energy foods—carbohy- under the usual conditions of temperature and concen- trations of the reactants in the body. Therefore, in the drates, fats, and proteins—can be oxidized in the cells, body, removal of each of the last two
