Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


temperature and concen- trations of the reactants in the body. Therefore, in the drates, fats, and proteins—can be oxidized in the cells, body, removal of each of the last two phosphate radi- and during this process, large amounts of energy are re- cals liberates about 12,000 calories of energy. After loss leased. These same foods can also be burned with pure oxygen outside the body in an actual fire, releasing large amounts of energy, but the energy is released suddenly, Energy production all in the form of heat. The energy needed by the physi- • Proteins ologic processes of the cells is not heat but energy to cause • Carbohydrates Oxidation • Fats mechanical movement in the case of muscle function, to concentrate solutes in the case of glandular secretion, and to effect many other cell functions. To provide this energy, the chemical reactions must be “coupled” with the systems ADP + P ATP responsible for these physiologic functions. This coupling i is accomplished by special cellular enzymes and energy transfer systems, some of which are explained in this and subsequent chapters. Energy utilization “Free Energy.”The amount of energy liberated by com- • Active ion transport • Muscle contraction plete oxidation of a food is called the free energy of food • Synthesis of molecules oxidation and is generally represented by the symbol ΔG. • Cell division and growth Free energy is usually expressed in terms of calories per mole of substance. For example, the amount of free energy Figure 68- 1. Adenosine triphosphate as the central link between liberated by complete oxidation of 1 mole (180 grams) of energy- producing and energy-u tilizing systems of the body. ADP, glucose is 686,000 calories. Adenosine diphosphate; P i, inorganic phosphate. 843 UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation NH 2 N C Adenine C N HC Triphosphate C CH O O O N N O CH 2 O P O ~ P O ~ P O(cid:31) C C O(cid:31) O(cid:31) O(cid:31) H H Ribose H C C H OH OH Figure 68- 2. Chemical structure of adenosine triphosphate. of one phosphate radical from ATP, the compound be- Cell membrane comes ADP, and after loss of the second phosphate radi- cal, it becomes adenosine monophosphate (AMP). The ATP Galactose Galactose-1-phosphate interconversions among ATP, ADP, and AMP are the following: ADP AMP Uridine diphosphate galactose ATP← −1 2,0 00c al → +
