Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


it becomes adenosine monophosphate (AMP). The ATP Galactose Galactose-1-phosphate interconversions among ATP, ADP, and AMP are the following: ADP AMP Uridine diphosphate galactose ATP← −1 2,0 00c al → +  ← −1 2,0 000c al → +  +12,000cal PO 3 +12,000cal 2PO 3 Uridine diphosphate glucose ATP is present everywhere in the cytoplasm and nu- cleoplasm of all cells, and essentially all the physiological Glycogen mechanisms that require energy for operation obtain it di- rectly from ATP (or another similar high- energy compound, Glucose-1-phosphate guanosine triphosphate). In turn, the food in the cells is grad- ually oxidized, and the released energy is used to form new ATP, thus always maintaining a supply of this substance. All ATP Glucose Glucose-6-phosphate these energy transfers take place via coupled reactions. The principal purpose of this chapter is to explain how the energy from carbohydrates can be used to form ATP in the cells. Normally, 90% or more of all the carbohydrates ATP utilized by the body are for this purpose. Fructose Fructose-6-phosphate Central Role of Glucose in Carbohydrate Metabolism As explained in Chapter 66, the final products of carbohy- Glycolysis drate digestion in the alimentary tract are almost entirely Figure 68- 3. Interconversions of the three major monosaccharides—glu- glucose, fructose, and galactose—with glucose represent- cose, fructose, and galactose—in liver cells. ATP, Adenosine triphosphate. ing, on average, about 80% of these products. After absorp- tion from the intestinal tract, much of the fructose and almost all the galactose are rapidly converted into glucose then be transported through the liver cell membrane back in the liver. Therefore, little fructose and galactose are pre- into the blood. sent in the circulating blood. Glucose thus becomes the final Once again, it should be emphasized that more than common pathway for transport of almost all carbohydrates 95% of all the monosaccharides that circulate in the blood to the tissue cells. are normally the final conversion product, glucose. In liver cells, appropriate enzymes are available to pro- Glucose Transport Through Cell Membranes mote interconversions among the monosaccharides—glu- cose, fructose, and galactose—as shown in Figure 68-3 . Before glucose can be used by the body’s tissue cells, it must Furthermore, the dynamics of the reactions are such that be transported through the cell membrane into the cellular when the liver releases monosaccharides back into the cytoplasm. However, glucose cannot easily diffuse through blood, the final product is almost
