Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


be transported through the cell membrane into the cellular when the liver releases monosaccharides back into the cytoplasm. However, glucose cannot easily diffuse through blood, the final product is almost entirely glucose. The the pores of the cell membrane because the maximum mo- reason for this is that liver cells contain large amounts of lecular weight of particles that can diffuse readily is about glucose phosphatase. Therefore, glucose- 6- phosphate can 100, and glucose has a molecular weight of 180. Yet glucose be degraded to glucose and phosphate, and the glucose can does pass to the interior of the cells with a reasonable degree 844 Chapter 68 Metabolism of Carbohydrates and Formation of Adenosine Triphosphate of freedom by facilitated diffusion. The principles of this type Glycogen Is Stored in the Liver and Muscle of transport are discussed in Chapter 4. Penetrating through After absorption into a cell, glucose can be used im- the lipid matrix of the cell membrane are large numbers of mediately for release of energy to the cell, or it can be protein carrier molecules that can bind with glucose. In this stored in the form of glycogen, which is a large polymer bound form, the glucose can be transported by the carrier of glucose. from one side of the membrane to the other side and then Almost all cells of the body are capable of storing at least released. Therefore, if the concentration of glucose is greater some glycogen, but certain cells can store large amounts, on one side of the membrane than on the other side, more especially liver cells, which can store up to 5% to 8% of their glucose will be transported from the high-c oncentration area weight as glycogen, and muscle cells, which can store up to the low-c oncentration area than in the opposite direction. to 1% to 3% glycogen. The glycogen molecules can be po- Transport of glucose through the membranes of most lymerized to almost any molecular weight, with the average tissue cells is quite different from that which occurs through molecular weight being 5 million or greater; most of the the gastrointestinal membrane or through the epithelium of glycogen precipitates in the form of solid granules. the renal tubules. In both cases, the glucose is transported This conversion of monosaccharides into a high- by the mechanism of active sodium- glucose co- transport, in molecular- weight precipitated compound (glycogen)
