Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tubules. In both cases, the glucose is transported This conversion of monosaccharides into a high- by the mechanism of active sodium- glucose co- transport, in molecular- weight precipitated compound (glycogen) makes which active transport of sodium provides energy for absorb- it possible to store large quantities of carbohydrates without ing glucose against a concentration difference. This sodium- significantly altering the osmotic pressure of the intracellular glucose co- transport mechanism functions only in certain fluids. High concentrations of low-m olecular- weight soluble special cells, especially those epithelial cells that are specifi- monosaccharides would play havoc with the osmotic rela- cally adapted for active absorption of glucose. At other cell tions between intracellular and extracellular fluids. membranes, glucose is transported only from higher concen- tration toward lower concentration by facilitated diffusion, Glycogenesis—Formation of Glycogen made possible by the special binding properties of membrane The chemical reactions for glycogenesis are illustrated in glucose carrier protein. The details of facilitated diffusion for Figure 68-4 which shows that glucose- 6- phosphate can be- cell membrane transport are presented in Chapter 4. come glucose- 1- phosphate; this substance is converted to Insulin Increases Facilitated Diffusion of Glucose uridine diphosphate glucose, which is finally converted into glycogen. Several specific enzymes are required to cause The rate of glucose transport, as well as transport of some these conversions, and any monosaccharide that can be other monosaccharides, is greatly increased in most cells converted into glucose can enter into the reactions. Certain by insulin. When large amounts of insulin are secreted by smaller compounds, including lactic acid, glycerol, pyruvic the pancreas, the rate of glucose transport into most cells acid, and some deaminated amino acids, can also be con- increases to 10 or more times the rate of transport when no verted into glucose or closely allied compounds and then insulin is secreted. Conversely, the amounts of glucose that converted into glycogen. can diffuse to the insides of most cells of the body in the ab- sence of insulin, with the exception of liver and brain cells, Glycogenolysis—Breakdown of Stored Glycogen are far too little to supply the amount of glucose normally Glycogenolysis means the breakdown of the cell’s stored required for energy metabolism. glycogen to re-f orm glucose in the cells. The glucose In effect, the rate of carbohydrate utilization by most can then be used to provide energy. Glycogenolysis does cells is controlled by the rate of
