Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in the cells. The glucose In effect, the rate of carbohydrate utilization by most can then be used to provide energy. Glycogenolysis does cells is controlled by the rate of insulin secretion from the not occur by reversal of the same chemical reactions pancreas and the sensitivity of the various tissues to insu- that form glycogen; instead, each succeeding glucose lin’s effects on glucose transport. The functions of insulin and its control of carbohydrate metabolism are discussed in detail in Chapter 79. Cell membrane Phosphorylation of Glucose Glycogen Immediately upon entry into the cells, glucose combines Uridine diphosphate glucose (phosphorylase) with a phosphate radical in accordance with the following reaction: GlucoseGlucokinaseorhexokinase→Glucose-6-phossphate +ATP Glucose-1-phosphate This phosphorylation is promoted mainly by the enzyme glucokinase in the liver and by hexokinase in most other (glucokinase) cells. The phosphorylation of glucose is almost completely Blood Glucose-6-phosphate glucose irreversible except in liver cells, renal tubular epithelial cells, (phosphatase) and intestinal epithelial cells; in these cells, another enzyme, glucose phosphatase, is also available, and when activated, it can reverse the reaction. In most tissues of the body, phos- Glycolysis phorylation serves to capture the glucose in the cell. That is, Figure 68- 4. Chemical reactions of glycogenesis and glycogenolysis, because of its almost instantaneous binding with phosphate, also showing interconversions between blood glucose and liver gly- the glucose will not diffuse back out, except from those spe- cogen. (The phosphatase required for the release of glucose from the cial cells, especially liver cells, that have phosphatase. cell is present in liver cells but not in most other cells.) 845 UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation molecule on each branch of the glycogen polymer is split Glucose away by phosphorylation, catalyzed by the enzyme phos- ATP ADP phorylase. Glucose-6-phosphate Under resting conditions, the phosphorylase is in an inactive form, and thus glycogen remains stored. When Fructose-6-phosphate it is necessary to re- form glucose from glycogen, the ATP ADP phosphorylase must first be activated. This activation can be accomplished in several ways, including activa- Fructose-1,6-diphosphate tion by epinephrine or by glucagon, as described in the next section. Dihydroxyacetone phosphate Activation of Phosphorylase by Epinephrine or by Glucagon. Two hormones, epinephrine and glucagon, can 2 (Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate) activate phosphorylase and thereby cause rapid glycogenoly- 4H sis. The initial effect of each of these hormones is to promote 2 (1,3-Diphosphoglyceric acid) formation of cyclic AMP in the cells, which
