Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


phosphorylase and thereby cause rapid glycogenoly- 4H sis. The initial effect of each of these hormones is to promote 2 (1,3-Diphosphoglyceric acid) formation of cyclic AMP in the cells, which then initiates a cascade of chemical reactions that activates the phosphory- 2ADP +2ATP lase. This process is discussed in detail in Chapter 79. 2 (3-Phosphoglyceric acid) Epinephrine is released by the adrenal medullae when the sympathetic nervous system is stimulated. Therefore, 2 (2-Phosphoglyceric acid) one of the functions of the sympathetic nervous system is to increase the availability of glucose for rapid energy me- 2 (Phosphoenolpyruvic acid) tabolism. This function of epinephrine occurs markedly 2ADP 2ATP in liver cells and muscle, thereby contributing (along with other effects of sympathetic stimulation) to preparation of 2 (Pyruvic acid) the body for action, as discussed in Chapter 61. Net reaction per molecule of glucose: Glucagon is a hormone secreted by the alpha cells of Glucose + 2ADP + 2PO 4−3 2 Pyruvic acid + 2ATP + 4H the pancreas when the blood glucose concentration falls Figure 68- 5. Sequence of chemical reactions responsible for too low. It stimulates formation of cyclic AMP mainly in glycolysis. the liver cells, promoting conversion of liver glycogen into glucose and its release into the blood, thereby elevating the blood glucose concentration. The function of glucagon in into two three-c arbon- atom molecules, glyceraldehyde- 3- blood glucose regulation is discussed in Chapter 79. phosphate, each of which is then converted through five additional steps into pyruvic acid. Release of Energy From Glucose by the Glycolytic Formation of ATP During Glycolysis. Despite the many Pathway chemical reactions in the glycolytic series, only a small por- Because complete oxidation of 1 gram-m ole of glucose re- tion of the free energy in the glucose molecule is released leases 686,000 calories of energy and only 12,000 calories at most steps. However, between the 1,3- diphosphoglyceric of energy are required to form 1 gram- mole of ATP, energy acid and the 3- phosphoglyceric acid stages, and again be- would be wasted if glucose were decomposed all at once tween the phosphoenolpyruvic acid and the pyruvic acid into water and carbon dioxide while forming only a single stages, the packets of energy released are greater than ATP molecule. Fortunately, cells of the body contain special 12,000 calories per mole, the amount required to form ATP, enzymes that cause the glucose molecule to split
