Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


are greater than ATP molecule. Fortunately, cells of the body contain special 12,000 calories per mole, the amount required to form ATP, enzymes that cause the glucose molecule to split a little at a and the reactions are coupled in such a way that ATP is time in many successive steps, so that its energy is released formed. Thus, a total of 4 moles of ATP are formed for each in small packets to form one molecule of ATP at a time, mole of fructose- 1,6- diphosphate that is split into pyruvic thus forming a total of 38 moles of ATP for each mole of acid. glucose metabolized by the cells. Yet, 2 moles of ATP are required to phosphorylate the In the next sections we describe the basic principles of original glucose to form fructose- 1,6-d iphosphate before the processes by which the glucose molecule is progres- glycolysis can begin. Therefore, the net gain in ATP mol- sively dissected and its energy released to form ATP. ecules by the entire glycolytic process is only 2 moles for each mole of glucose utilized. This amounts to 24,000 calories of Glycolysis—Splitting Glucose to Form Pyruvic Acid energy that becomes transferred to ATP, but during glyco- By far the most important means of releasing energy from lysis, a total of 56,000 calories of energy were lost from the glucose is initiated by glycolysis. The end products of glyco- original glucose, giving an overall efficiency for ATP forma- lysis are then oxidized to provide energy. Glycolysis means tion of only 43%. The remaining 57% of the energy is lost in splitting of the glucose molecule to form two molecules of the form of heat. pyruvic acid. Conversion of Pyruvic Acid to Acetyl Coenzyme A Glycolysis occurs by 10 successive chemical reactions, shown in Figure 68-5 . Each step is catalyzed by at least The next stage in the degradation of glucose is a two- one specific protein enzyme. Note that glucose is first step conversion of the two pyruvic acid molecules converted into fructose- 1,6-d iphosphate and then split (shown in Figure 68-5 ) into two molecules of acetyl 846 Chapter 68 Metabolism of Carbohydrates and Formation of Adenosine Triphosphate coenzyme A (acetyl- CoA), in accordance with the fol- O C COOH CH 3 CO CoA (Acetyl coenzyme A) lowing reaction: HC COOH 2 O (Oxaloacetic acid) H O CoA 2 H C
