Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


CoA), in accordance with the fol- O C COOH CH 3 CO CoA (Acetyl coenzyme A) lowing reaction: HC COOH 2 O (Oxaloacetic acid) H O CoA 2 H C COOH 2CH C COOH + 2CoA SH 2 3 (Pyruvic acid) (Coenzyme A) HOC COOH H C COOH 2 O (Citric acid) H O 2 H C COOH 2 2CH 3 C S CoA + 2CO 2 + 4H C COOH (Acetyl-CoA) HC COOH (cis-Aconitic acid) Two carbon dioxide molecules and four hydrogen atoms H O 2 are released from this reaction, while the remaining portions H C COOH 2 of the two pyruvic acid molecules combine with coenzyme A, HC COOH a derivative of the vitamin pantothenic acid, to form two mol- ecules of acetyl- CoA. In this conversion, no ATP is formed, HOC COOH but up to six molecules of ATP are formed when the four re- H leased hydrogen atoms are later oxidized, as discussed later. (Isocitric acid) 2H Citric Acid Cycle (Krebs Cycle) H C COOH 2 The next stage in the degradation of the glucose molecule HC COOH is called the citric acid cycle (also called the tricarboxylic O C COOH acid cycle or the Krebs cycle in honor of Hans Krebs for his (Oxalosuccinic acid) discovery of this cycle). The citric acid cycle is a sequence CO 2 of chemical reactions in which the acetyl portion of acetyl- H 2C COOH CoA is degraded to carbon dioxide and hydrogen atoms. H C 2 These reactions all occur in the matrix of mitochondria. O C COOH The released hydrogen atoms add to the number of these ((cid:31)-Ketoglutaric acid) atoms that will subsequently be oxidized (as discussed lat- H O CO 2 2 er), releasing tremendous amounts of energy to form ATP. ADP H C COOH 2H 2 ATP Figure 68- 6 shows the different stages of the chemical H C COOH reactions in the citric acid cycle. The substances to the left 2 (Succinic acid) are added during the chemical reactions, and the products 2H of the chemical reactions are shown to the right. Note at the HC COOH top of the column that the cycle begins with oxaloacetic acid, HOOC CH and at the bottom of the chain of reactions, oxaloacetic acid (Fumaric acid) is formed again. Thus, the cycle can continue repeatedly. H O 2 In the initial stage of the citric acid
