Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


bottom of the chain of reactions, oxaloacetic acid (Fumaric acid) is formed again. Thus, the cycle can continue repeatedly. H O 2 In the initial stage of the citric acid cycle, acetyl- CoA H combines with oxaloacetic acid to form citric acid. The co- HO C COOH enzyme A portion of the acetyl-C oA is released and can be HC COOH used repeatedly to form additional quantities of acetyl-C oA 2 (Malic acid) from pyruvic acid. The acetyl portion, however, becomes 2H an integral part of the citric acid molecule. During the suc- O C COOH cessive stages of the citric acid cycle, several molecules of H C COOH water are added, as shown on the left in Figure 68-6 , and (Oxa2 loacetic acid) carbon dioxide and hydrogen atoms are released at other Net reaction per molecule of glucose: stages in the cycle, as shown on the right in the figure. 2 Acetyl-CoA + 6H O + 2ADP 2 4CO + 16H + 2CoA + 2ATP The net results of the entire citric acid cycle are provided 2 in the explanation at the bottom of Figure 68- 6, demonstrat- Figure 68- 6. Chemical reactions of the citric acid cycle, showing the ing that for each molecule of glucose originally metabolized, 2 release of carbon dioxide and a number of hydrogen atoms during acetyl-C oA molecules enter into the citric acid cycle, along with the cycle. ADP, Adenosine diphosphate; ATP, adenosine triphosphate. 6 molecules of water. These molecules are then degraded into 4 carbon dioxide molecules, 16 hydrogen atoms, and 2 molecules of coenzyme A. Two molecules of ATP are formed, as follows. of glucose metabolized, two acetyl-C oA molecules pass Formation of ATP in the Citric Acid Cycle. The citric through the citric acid cycle, each forming a molecule of acid cycle itself does not cause a great amount of energy ATP, or a total of two molecules of ATP formed. to be released; a molecule of ATP is formed in only one Function of Dehydrogenases and Nicotinamide of the chemical reactions—during the change from α- Adenine Dinucleotide in Causing Release of Hydrogen ketoglutaric acid to succinic acid. Thus, for each molecule Atoms in the Citric Acid Cycle. As already noted at several 847 UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation points in this discussion, hydrogen atoms are released dur- FFoooodd ssuubbssttrraattee ing different chemical reactions of the
