Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


not subse- quently released to NAD+. Instead, they pass directly from use the electrons eventually to combine dissolved oxygen the dehydrogenase into the oxidative process. of the fluids with water molecules to form hydroxyl ions. Function of Decarboxylases in Causing Release of Then the hydrogen and hydroxyl ions combine with each Carbon Dioxide. Referring again to the chemical reactions other to form water. During this sequence of oxidative reac- of the citric acid cycle, as well as to those for the forma- tions, tremendous quantities of energy are released to form tion of acetyl-C oA from pyruvic acid, we find that there are ATP. Formation of ATP in this manner is called oxidative three stages in which carbon dioxide is released. To cause phosphorylation, which occurs entirely in the mitochon- the release of carbon dioxide, other specific protein en- dria by a highly specialized process called the chemiosmotic zymes, called decarboxylases, split the carbon dioxide away mechanism. from the substrate. The carbon dioxide is then dissolved in Chemiosmotic Mechanism of the Mitochondria to the body fluids and transported to the lungs, where it is Form ATP expired from the body (see Chapter 41). Ionization of Hydrogen, the Electron Transport Chain, Formation of Large Quantities of ATP by Oxidation and Water Formation. The first step in oxidative phos- of Hydrogen—The Process of Oxidative Phosphor- phorylation in the mitochondria is to ionize the hydrogen ylation atoms that have been removed from the food substrates. Despite all the complexities of (1) glycolysis, (2) the citric As described earlier, these hydrogen atoms are removed in acid cycle, (3) dehydrogenation, and (4) decarboxylation, pairs: one immediately becomes a hydrogen ion, H+, the pitifully small amounts of ATP are formed during all these other combines with NAD+ to form reduced nicotinamide processes—only 2 ATP molecules in the glycolysis scheme adenine dinucleotide (NADH). The upper portion of Fig- and another 2 in the citric acid cycle for each molecule of ure 68-7 shows the subsequent fate of the NADH and H+. glucose metabolized. Instead, almost 90% of the total ATP The initial effect is to release the other hydrogen atom from created through glucose metabolism is formed during sub- the NADH to form another hydrogen ion, H+; this process sequent oxidation of the hydrogen atoms that were released also reconstitutes NAD+ that will be reused repeatedly. at early stages of glucose degradation. Indeed, the principal The electrons
