Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


this process sequent oxidation of the hydrogen atoms that were released also reconstitutes NAD+ that will be reused repeatedly. at early stages of glucose degradation. Indeed, the principal The electrons that are removed from the hydrogen at- function of all these earlier stages is to make the hydrogen oms to cause the hydrogen ionization immediately enter of the glucose molecule available in forms that can be oxi- an electron transport chain of electron acceptors that are an dized. integral part of the inner membrane (the shelf membrane) Oxidation of hydrogen is accomplished, as illustrated of the mitochondrion. The electron acceptors can be re- in Figure 68-7 , by a series of enzymatically catalyzed re- versibly reduced or oxidized by accepting or giving up elec- actions in the mitochondria. These reactions (1) split each trons. The important members of this electron transport hydrogen atom into a hydrogen ion and an electron and (2) chain include flavoprotein (flavin mononucleotide), several 848 Chapter 68 Metabolism of Carbohydrates and Formation of Adenosine Triphosphate iron sulfide proteins, ubiquinone, and cytochromes B, C1, C, 2. During each revolution of the citric acid cycle, 1 mol- A, and A3. Each electron is shuttled from one of these ac- ecule of ATP is formed. However, because each glucose ceptors to the next until it finally reaches cytochrome A3, molecule splits into 2 pyruvic acid molecules, there are which is called cytochrome oxidase because it is capable of 2 revolutions of the cycle for each molecule of glucose giving up 2 electrons and thus reducing elemental oxygen metabolized, giving a net production of 2 more mole- to form ionic oxygen, which then combines with hydrogen cules of ATP. ions to form water. 3. D uring the entire schema of glucose breakdown, a Thus, Figure 68-7 shows the transport of electrons total of 24 hydrogen atoms are released during glyco- through the electron chain and then their ultimate use by lysis and during the citric acid cycle. Twenty of these cytochrome oxidase to cause the formation of water mol- atoms are oxidized in conjunction with the chemi- ecules. During the transport of these electrons through the osmotic mechanism shown in Figure 68- 7, with the electron transport chain, energy is released that is used to release of 3 ATP molecules per 2 atoms of hydrogen cause the synthesis of ATP, as follows. metabolized. This process gives an additional 30 ATP
