Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


released that is used to release of 3 ATP molecules per 2 atoms of hydrogen cause the synthesis of ATP, as follows. metabolized. This process gives an additional 30 ATP Electron Transport Chain Releases Energy Used to molecules. Pump Hydrogen Ions Into the Outer Chamber of the 4. The remaining 4 hydrogen atoms are released by their Mitochondrion. As the electrons pass through the electron dehydrogenase into the chemiosmotic oxidative schema transport chain, large amounts of energy are released. This in the mitochondrion beyond the first stage of Figure energy is used to pump hydrogen ions from the inner ma- 68- 7. Two ATP molecules are usually released for every trix of the mitochondrion (to the right in Figure 68-7 ) into 2 hydrogen atoms oxidized, thus giving a total of 4 more the outer chamber between the inner and outer mitochon- ATP molecules. drial membranes (to the left). This process creates a high Now, adding all the ATP molecules formed, we find a concentration of positively charged hydrogen ions in this maximum of 38 ATP molecules formed for each molecule of chamber; it also creates a strong negative electrical poten- glucose degraded to carbon dioxide and water. Thus, 456,000 tial in the inner matrix. calories of energy can be stored in the form of ATP, whereas Formation of ATP. The next step in oxidative phos- 686,000 calories are released during the complete oxidation phorylation is to convert ADP into ATP. This conversion of each gram-m olecule of glucose. This outcome represents occurs in conjunction with a large protein molecule that an overall maximum efficiency of energy transfer of 66%. The protrudes all the way through the inner mitochondrial remaining 34% of the energy becomes heat and, therefore, membrane and projects with a knoblike head into the in- cannot be used by the cells to perform specific functions. ner mitochondrial matrix. This molecule is an ATPase, Effect of ATP and ADP Cell Concentrations in Control- the physical nature of which is shown in Figure 68- 7. It is ling Glycolysis and Glucose Oxidation called ATP synthetase. The high concentration of positively charged hydrogen Continual release of energy from glucose when the cells do ions in the outer chamber and the large electrical potential not need energy would be an extremely wasteful process. difference across the inner membrane cause the hydrogen Instead, glycolysis and the subsequent oxidation of hydro- ions to
