Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


large electrical potential not need energy would be an extremely wasteful process. difference across the inner membrane cause the hydrogen Instead, glycolysis and the subsequent oxidation of hydro- ions to flow into the inner mitochondrial matrix through gen atoms are continually controlled in accordance with the substance of the ATPase molecule. In doing so, energy the need of the cells for ATP. This control is accomplished derived from this hydrogen ion flow is used by ATPase to by multiple feedback control mechanisms within the chem- convert ADP into ATP by combining ADP with a free ionic ical schemata. Among the more important of these mecha- phosphate radical (P), thus adding another high-e nergy nisms are the effects of cell concentrations of both ADP and i ATP in controlling the rates of chemical reactions in the phosphate bond to the molecule. energy metabolism sequence. The final step in the process is transfer of ATP from One important way in which ATP helps control energy the inside of the mitochondrion back to the cell cyto- metabolism is to inhibit the enzyme phosphofructokinase. plasm. This step occurs by facilitated diffusion outward through the inner membrane and then by simple dif- Because this enzyme promotes the formation of fructose- fusion through the permeable outer mitochondrial 1,6- diphosphate, one of the initial steps in the glycolytic membrane. In turn, ADP is continually transferred in series of reactions, the net effect of excess cellular ATP is the other direction for continual conversion into ATP. to slow or even stop glycolysis, which in turn stops most For each two electrons that pass through the entire elec- carbohydrate metabolism. Conversely, ADP (and AMP as tron transport chain (representing the ionization of two well) causes the opposite change in this enzyme, greatly in- hydrogen atoms), up to three ATP molecules are synthe- creasing its activity. Whenever ATP is used by the tissues sized. for energizing a major fraction of almost all intracellular chemical reactions, this action reduces the ATP inhibition Summary of ATP Formation During the Breakdown of the enzyme phosphofructokinase and at the same time of Glucose increases its activity as a result of the excess ADP formed. We can now determine the total number of ATP molecules Thus, the glycolytic process is set in motion, and the total that, under optimal conditions, can be formed by the en- cellular store of ATP is replenished. ergy from one
