Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Thus, the glycolytic process is set in motion, and the total that, under optimal conditions, can be formed by the en- cellular store of ATP is replenished. ergy from one molecule of glucose. Another control linkage is the citrate ion formed in the citric acid cycle. An excess of this ion also strongly inhibits 1. During glycolysis, 4 molecules of ATP are formed and phosphofructokinase, thus preventing the glycolytic process 2 are expended to cause the initial phosphorylation of from getting ahead of the citric acid cycle’s ability to use the glucose to get the process going, giving a net gain of 2 pyruvic acid formed during glycolysis. molecules of ATP. 849 UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation A third way by which the ATP- ADP- AMP system con- the glycolytic end products can disappear, thus allowing trols carbohydrate metabolism, as well as controlling ener- glycolysis to proceed far longer than would otherwise be gy release from fats and proteins, is the following: Referring possible. Indeed, glycolysis could proceed for only a few to the various chemical reactions for energy release, we see seconds without this conversion. Instead, it can proceed that if all the ADP in the cell has already been converted for several minutes, supplying the body with considerable into ATP, additional ATP simply cannot be formed. As a re- extra quantities of ATP, even in the absence of respiratory sult, the entire sequence involved in the use of foodstuffs— oxygen. glucose, fats, and proteins—to form ATP is stopped. Then, Reconversion of Lactic Acid to Pyruvic Acid When when ATP is used by the cell to energize the different physi- Oxygen Becomes Available Again. When a person begins ological functions in the cell, the newly formed ADP and to breathe oxygen again after a period of anaerobic metabo- AMP turn on the energy processes again, and ADP and lism, the lactic acid is rapidly reconverted to pyruvic acid AMP are almost instantly returned to the ATP state. In this and NADH plus H+. Large portions of these substances are way, essentially a full store of ATP is automatically main- immediately oxidized to form large quantities of ATP. This tained, except during extreme cellular activity, such as very excess ATP then causes as much as 75% of the remaining strenuous exercise. excess pyruvic acid to be converted back into glucose. Thus, the large amount of lactic acid
