Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


very excess ATP then causes as much as 75% of the remaining strenuous exercise. excess pyruvic acid to be converted back into glucose. Thus, the large amount of lactic acid that forms dur- Anaerobic Release of Energy—Anaerobic Glycolysis ing anaerobic glycolysis is not lost from the body because, Occasionally, oxygen becomes either unavailable or insuf- when oxygen is available again, the lactic acid can be either ficient, so oxidative phosphorylation cannot take place. Yet reconverted to glucose or used directly for energy. By far even under these conditions, a small amount of energy can the greatest portion of this reconversion occurs in the liver, still be released to the cells by the glycolysis stage of carbo- but a small amount can also occur in other tissues. hydrate degradation, because the chemical reactions for the Use of Lactic Acid by the Heart for Energy. Heart mus- breakdown of glucose to pyruvic acid do not require oxygen. cle is especially capable of converting lactic acid to pyruvic This process is extremely wasteful of glucose because acid and then using the pyruvic acid for energy. This pro- only 24,000 calories of energy are used to form ATP for cess occurs to a great extent during heavy exercise, when each molecule of glucose metabolized, which represents large amounts of lactic acid are released into the blood only a little over 3% of the total energy in the glucose mol- from the skeletal muscles and consumed as an extra energy ecule. Nevertheless, this release of glycolytic energy to the source by the heart. cells, which is called anaerobic energy, can be a lifesaving Release of Energy From Glucose by the Pentose measure for up to a few minutes when oxygen becomes Phosphate Pathway unavailable. Formation of Lactic Acid During Anaerobic Glycolysis In almost all the body’s muscles, essentially all the carbo- Allows Release of Extra Anaerobic Energy. The law of hydrates utilized for energy are degraded to pyruvic acid mass action states that as the end products of a chemical by glycolysis and then oxidized. However, this glycolytic reaction build up in a reacting medium, the rate of the re- scheme is not the only means by which glucose can be action decreases, approaching zero. The two end products degraded and used to provide energy. A second impor- of the glycolytic reactions (see Figure 68-5 ) are (1) pyruvic tant mechanism for breakdown and oxidation
