Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


The two end products degraded and used to provide energy. A second impor- of the glycolytic reactions (see Figure 68-5 ) are (1) pyruvic tant mechanism for breakdown and oxidation of glucose acid and (2) hydrogen atoms combined with NAD+ to form is called the pentose phosphate pathway (or phosphogluco- NADH and H+. The buildup of either or both of these sub- nate pathway), which is responsible for as much as 30% of stances would stop the glycolytic process and prevent fur- the glucose breakdown in the liver and even more than this ther formation of ATP. When their quantities begin to be in fat cells. excessive, these two end products react with each other to This pathway is especially important because it can pro- form lactic acid, in accordance with the following equation: vide energy independently of all the enzymes of the citric OH acid cycle and therefore is an alternative pathway for en- Lactic ergy metabolism when certain enzymatic abnormalities oc- dehydrogenase cur in cells. It has a special capacity for providing energy to CH C COOH + NADH + H+ 3 multiple cellular synthetic processes. (Pyruvic acid) Release of Carbon Dioxide and Hydrogen by the Pentose Phosphate Pathway. Figure 68-8 shows most OH of the basic chemical reactions in the pentose phosphate pathway. It demonstrates that glucose, during several stages CH C COOH + NAD+ of conversion, can release one molecule of carbon dioxide 3 and four atoms of hydrogen, with the resultant formation of a five- carbon sugar, d- ribulose. This substance can change H progressively into several other five-, four-, seven- , and (Lactic acid) three- carbon sugars. Finally, various combinations of these Thus, under anaerobic conditions, the major portion of sugars can resynthesize glucose. However, only five mol- the pyruvic acid is converted into lactic acid, which diffuses ecules of glucose are resynthesized for every six molecules readily out of the cells into the extracellular fluids and even of glucose that initially enter into the reactions. That is, the into the intracellular fluids of other less active cells. There- pentose phosphate pathway is a cyclical process in which fore, lactic acid represents a type of “sinkhole” into which one molecule of glucose is metabolized for each revolution 850 Chapter 68 Metabolism of Carbohydrates and Formation of Adenosine Triphosphate Glucose-6-phosphate ther stored as glycogen or converted into fat. Glucose 2H is preferentially stored as glycogen
