Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


for each revolution 850 Chapter 68 Metabolism of Carbohydrates and Formation of Adenosine Triphosphate Glucose-6-phosphate ther stored as glycogen or converted into fat. Glucose 2H is preferentially stored as glycogen until the cells have 6-Phosphoglucono-d-lactone stored as much glycogen as they can—an amount suf- ficient to supply the energy needs of the body for only 12 to 24 hours. 6-Phosphogluconic acid When the glycogen- storing cells (primarily liver 2H and muscle cells) approach saturation with glycogen, 3-Keto-6-phosphogluconic acid the additional glucose is converted into fat in liver and CO 2 fat cells and is stored as fat in the fat cells. Other steps D-Ribulose-5-phosphate in the chemistry of this conversion are discussed in H O 2 Chapter 69. D-Xylulose-5-phosphate Gluconeogenesis—Formation of Carbohydrates + From Proteins and Fats D-Ribose-5-phosphate When the body’s stores of carbohydrates decrease below normal, moderate quantities of glucose can be formed from D-Sedoheptulose-7-phosphate amino acids and the glycerol portion of fat. This process is + called gluconeogenesis. D-Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate Gluconeogenesis is especially important in preventing excessive reductions in blood glucose concentration dur- Fructose-6-phosphate ing fasting. Glucose is the primary substrate for energy in + tissues such as the brain and the red blood cells, and ad- Erythrose-4-phosphate equate amounts of glucose must be present in the blood for several hours between meals. The liver plays a key role in Net reaction: Glucose + 12NADP+ + 6H O maintaining blood glucose levels during fasting by convert- 2 6CO + 12H + 12NADPH ing its stored glycogen to glucose (glycogenolysis) and by 2 synthesizing glucose, mainly from lactate and amino acids Figure 68- 8. Pentose phosphate pathway for glucose metabolism. (gluconeogenesis). Approximately 25% of the liver’s glucose See text for details. production during fasting is from gluconeogenesis, helping to provide a steady supply of glucose to the brain. During prolonged fasting, the kidneys also synthesize considerable of the cycle. Thus, by repeating the cycle again and again, all amounts of glucose from amino acids and other precursors. the glucose can eventually be converted into carbon diox- About 60% of the amino acids in the body proteins can ide and hydrogen, and the hydrogen can enter the oxidative be converted easily into carbohydrates; the remaining 40% phosphorylation pathway to form ATP; more often, how- have chemical configurations that make this conversion ever, it is used for the synthesis of fat or other substances, difficult or impossible. Each amino acid is converted
