Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


more often, how- have chemical configurations that make this conversion ever, it is used for the synthesis of fat or other substances, difficult or impossible. Each amino acid is converted into as follows. glucose by a slightly different chemical process. For exam- Use of Hydrogen to Synthesize Fat; the Function of ple, alanine can be converted directly into pyruvic acid sim- Nicotinamide Adenine Dinucleotide Phosphate. The hy- ply by deamination; the pyruvic acid is then converted into drogen released during the pentose phosphate cycle does glucose or stored glycogen. Several of the more complicat- not combine with NAD+ as in the glycolytic pathway ed amino acids can be converted into different sugars that but combines with nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide contain three- , four- , five- , or seven- carbon atoms. They phosphate (NADP+), which is almost identical to NAD+ can then enter the phosphogluconate pathway and even- except for an extra phosphate radical, P. This difference is tually form glucose. Thus, by means of deamination plus extremely significant because only hydrogen bound with several simple interconversions, many of the amino acids NADP+ in the form of NADPH can be used for the synthe- can become glucose. Similar interconversions can change sis of fats from carbohydrates (as discussed in Chapter 69) glycerol into glucose or glycogen. and for the synthesis of some other substances. Regulation of Gluconeogenesis When the glycolytic pathway for using glucose becomes slowed because of cellular inactivity, the pentose phosphate Diminished carbohydrates in the cells and decreased blood pathway remains operative (mainly in the liver) to break sugar are the basic stimuli that increase the rate of gluco- down any excess glucose that continues to be transport- neogenesis. Diminished carbohydrates can directly reverse ed into the cells, and NADPH becomes abundant to help many of the glycolytic and phosphogluconate reactions, convert acetyl- CoA, also derived from glucose, into long thus allowing conversion of deaminated amino acids and fatty acid chains. This is another way in which energy in glycerol into carbohydrates. In addition, the hormone cor- the glucose molecule is used other than for the formation tisol is especially important in this regulation, as described of ATP—in this case, for the formation and storage of fat in in the following section. the body. Effect of Adrenocorticotropic Hormone and Glucocor- ticoids on Gluconeogenesis. When normal quantities of Glucose Conversion to Glycogen or Fat carbohydrates are not available to the
