Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the following section. the body. Effect of Adrenocorticotropic Hormone and Glucocor- ticoids on Gluconeogenesis. When normal quantities of Glucose Conversion to Glycogen or Fat carbohydrates are not available to the cells, the adenohy- When glucose is not immediately required for energy, pophysis, for reasons not completely understood, secretes the extra glucose that continually enters the cells is ei- increased quantities of the hormone adrenocorticotropic 851 UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation hormone (ACTH), also called corticotropin or adrenocor- Giorgi C, Marchi S, Pinton P: The machineries, regulation and cellular functions of mitochondrial calcium. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 19:713, ticotropin. This secretion stimulates the adrenal cortex to 2018. produce large quantities of glucocorticoid hormones, es- Hengist A, Koumanov F, Gonzalez JT: Fructose and metabolic health: pecially cortisol. In turn, cortisol mobilizes proteins from governed by hepatic glycogen status? J Physiol 597:3573, 2019. essentially all cells of the body, making these proteins avail- Herzig S, Shaw RJ: AMPK: Guardian of metabolism and mitochondrial able in the form of amino acids in the body fluids. A high homeostasis. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 19:121, 2018. proportion of these amino acids immediately becomes Koliaki C, Roden M: Hepatic energy metabolism in human diabetes deaminated in the liver and provides ideal substrates for mellitus, obesity and non-a lcoholic fatty liver disease. Mol Cell En- conversion into glucose. Thus, one of the most important docrinol 379:35, 2013. means by which gluconeogenesis is promoted is through Krebs HA: The tricarboxylic acid cycle. Harvey Lect 44:165, 1948. the release of glucocorticoids from the adrenal cortex. Kuo T, Harris CA, Wang JC: Metabolic functions of glucocorticoid receptor in skeletal muscle. Mol Cell Endocrinol 380:79, 2013. Blood Glucose Letts JA, Sazanov LA: Clarifying the supercomplex: the higher-o rder organization of the mitochondrial electron transport chain. Nat The normal blood glucose concentration in a person who Struct Mol Biol 24:800, 2017. has not eaten a meal within the past 3 to 4 hours is about Petersen MC, Shulman GI: Mechanisms of insulin action and insulin 90 mg/dl. After a meal containing large amounts of car- resistance. Physiol Rev 98:2133, 2018. bohydrates, this level seldom rises above 140 mg/dl un- Petersen MC, Vatner DF, Shulman GI: Regulation of hepatic glucose less the person has diabetes mellitus, which is discussed in metabolism in health and disease. Nat Rev Endocrinol 13:572, 2017. Chapter 79. Pfanner N, Warscheid B, Wiedemann N: Mitochondrial
