Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


they share almost equally with carbohydrates. nal lymph. During digestion, most triglycerides are split However, some lipids, especially cholesterol, phospholip- into monoglycerides and fatty acids. Then, while passing ids, and small amounts of triglycerides, are used to form through the intestinal epithelial cells, the monoglycerides the membranes of all cells of the body and to perform and fatty acids are resynthesized into new molecules of other essential cellular functions. triglycerides that enter the lymph as minute, dispersed droplets called chylomicrons (Figure 69- 1), whose diam- BASIC CHEMICAL STRUCTURE OF eters are between 0.08 and 0.6 micron. A small amount TRIGLYCERIDES (NEUTRAL FAT) of apolipoprotein, mainly apolipoprotein B, is adsorbed to the outer surfaces of the chylomicrons. The remainder of Because most of this chapter deals with utilization of tri- the protein molecules project into the surrounding water glycerides for energy, the following typical structure of the and thereby increase the suspension stability of the chylo- triglyceride molecule should be understood: microns in the lymph fluid and prevent their adherence to the lymphatic vessel walls. CH (CH ) COO CH 3 216 2 Most of the cholesterol and phospholipids absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract enter the chylomicrons. Thus, although the chylomicrons are composed princi- CH (CH ) COO CH 3 216 pally of triglycerides, they also contain about 9% phos- pholipids, 3% cholesterol, and 1% apolipoproteins. The CH 3 (CH 2) 16 COO CH 2 chylomicrons are then transported upward through the thoracic duct and emptied into the circulating venous Tristearin blood at the juncture of the jugular and subclavian veins. REMOVAL OF THE CHYLOMICRONS FROM Note that three long- chain fatty acid molecules are THE BLOOD bound with one molecule of glycerol. The three fatty acids most commonly present in the triglycerides of the human About 1 hour after a meal containing large quantities of body are as follows: (1) stearic acid (shown in the tristea- fat, the chylomicron concentration in the plasma may rin example), which has an 18-c arbon chain and is fully rise to 1% to 2% of the total plasma, and because of the saturated with hydrogen atoms; (2) oleic acid, which also large size of the chylomicrons, the plasma appears turbid has an 18-c arbon chain but has one double bond in the and sometimes yellow. However, the chylomicrons have a 853 UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation Phospholipids Cholesterol chylomicron remnants and
