Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


chain but has one double bond in the and sometimes yellow. However, the chylomicrons have a 853 UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation Phospholipids Cholesterol chylomicron remnants and secreted by liver cells also Triglycerides plays an important role in initiating clearance of these plasma lipoproteins. “Free Fatty Acids” Are Transported in the Blood in Combination With Albumin When fat that has been stored in the adipose tissue is to be used elsewhere in the body to provide energy, it must first be transported from the adipose tissue to the other tissue. It is transported mainly in the form of free fatty acids. This transport is achieved by hydrolysis of the triglycerides back into fatty acids and glycerol. At least two classes of stimuli play important roles in promoting this hydrolysis. First, when the amount of glu- cose available to the fat cell is inadequate, one of the glucose breakdown products, α- glycerophosphate, is also available in insufficient quantities. Because this substance is required to maintain the glycerol portion of triglycerides, the result is hydrolysis of triglycerides. Second, a hormone- sensitive cellular lipase can be activated by several hormones from the endocrine glands, and this also promotes rapid hy- drolysis of triglycerides. This topic is discussed later in the chapter. Embedded Upon leaving fat cells, fatty acids ionize strongly in apolipoproteins the plasma and the ionic portion combines immediate- Figure 69-1 . Chylomicrons are lipoprotein particles that consist of ly with albumin molecules of the plasma proteins. Fatty phospholipids and apolipoproteins on the outer surface and triglycer- acids bound in this manner are called free fatty acids ides and cholesterol inside. or nonesterified fatty acids, to distinguish them from other fatty acids in the plasma that exist in the form of (1) esters of glycerol, (2) cholesterol, or (3) other sub- half- life of less than 1 hour, so the plasma becomes clear stances. again within a few hours. The fat of the chylomicrons is The concentration of free fatty acids in the plasma un- removed mainly in the following way. der resting conditions is about 15 mg/dl, which is a total of only 0.45 gram of fatty acids in the entire circulatory Chylomicron Triglycerides Are Hydrolyzed by system. Even this small amount accounts for almost all the Lipoprotein Lipase, and Fat Is Stored in Adipose Tissue. transport of fatty acids from one part of the body to an-
