Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Even this small amount accounts for almost all the Lipoprotein Lipase, and Fat Is Stored in Adipose Tissue. transport of fatty acids from one part of the body to an- other for the following reasons: Most of the chylomicrons are removed from the circulating 1. Despite the minute amount of free fatty acid in the blood as they pass through the capillaries of various tissues, blood, its rate of “turnover” is extremely rapid: half the especially adipose tissue, skeletal muscle, and heart. These plasma fatty acid is replaced by new fatty acid every 2 tissues synthesize the enzyme lipoprotein lipase, which is to 3 minutes. One can calculate that at this rate, almost transported to the surface of capillary endothelial cells, all the normal energy requirements of the body can where it hydrolyzes the triglycerides of chylomicrons as be provided by the oxidation of transported free fatty they come in contact with the endothelial wall, thus releas- acids, without using any carbohydrates or proteins for ing fatty acids and glycerol (Figure 69- 2). energy. The fatty acids released from the chylomicrons, being 2. Conditions that increase the rate of utilization of highly miscible with the membranes of the cells, diffuse fat for cellular energy also increase the free fatty acid concentration in the blood. In fact, the concentration into the fat cells of the adipose tissue and muscle cells. sometimes increases fivefold to eightfold. Such a large Once inside these cells, the fatty acids can be used for fuel increase occurs especially in cases of starvation and in or again synthesized into triglycerides, with new glycerol diabetes mellitus; in both these conditions, the person being supplied by the metabolic processes of the stor- derives little or no metabolic energy from carbohy- age cells, as discussed later in the chapter. The lipase also drates. causes hydrolysis of phospholipids, which also releases Under normal conditions, only about 3 molecules of fatty acids to be stored in the cells in the same way. fatty acid combine with each molecule of albumin, but After the triglycerides are removed from the chylo- as many as 30 fatty acid molecules can combine with a microns, the cholesterol-e nriched chylomicron remnants single albumin molecule when the need for fatty acid are rapidly cleared from the plasma. The chylomicron transport is extreme. This shows how variable the rate remnants bind to receptors on endothelial cells in the of
