Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


for fatty acid are rapidly cleared from the plasma. The chylomicron transport is extreme. This shows how variable the rate remnants bind to receptors on endothelial cells in the of lipid transport can be under different physiological conditions. liver sinusoids. Apolipoprotein- E on the surface of the 854 Chapter 69 Lipid Metabolism Dietary fat and cholesterol LPL LPL Chylomicrons Chylomicron Intestine remnants FFA Adipose Peripheral tissue tissues Bile acids FFA FFA LPL VLDL IDL LDL LPL Liver LDL receptors Remnant Apo E mediated receptors Apo B mediated Apo E mediated Figure 69- 2. Summary of major pathways for metabolism of chylomicrons synthesized in the intestine and very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) synthesized in the liver. Apo B, Apolipoprotein B; Apo E, apolipoprotein E; FFA, free fatty acids; IDL, intermediate- density lipoprotein; LDL, low- density lipoprotein; LPL, lipoprotein lipase. Lipoproteins—Their Special Function in Transporting triglycerides and moderate concentrations of both cho- Cholesterol and Phospholipids lesterol and phospholipids; (2) intermediate- density lipo- In the postabsorptive state, after all the chylomicrons have proteins (IDLs), which are VLDLs from which a share of been removed from the blood, more than 95% of all the the triglycerides has been removed, so the concentrations lipids in the plasma are in the form of lipoprotein. These li- of cholesterol and phospholipids are increased; (3) low- pids are small particles—much smaller than chylomicrons, density lipoproteins (LDLs), which are derived from IDLs but qualitatively similar in composition—containing tri- by the removal of almost all the triglycerides, leaving an es- glycerides, cholesterol, phospholipids, and protein. The total pecially high concentration of cholesterol and a moderately concentration of lipoproteins in the plasma averages about high concentration of phospholipids; and (4) high- density 700 mg per 100 ml of plasma—that is, 700 mg/dl—and can lipoproteins (HDLs), which contain a high concentration of be broken down into the following individual lipoprotein protein (≈50%) but much smaller concentrations of choles- constituents: terol and phospholipids. Formation and Function of Lipoproteins. Almost all mg/dl of Plasma the lipoproteins are formed in the liver, which is also where Cholesterol 180 most of the plasma cholesterol, phospholipids, and tri- glycerides are synthesized. In addition, small quantities of Phospholipids 160 HDLs are synthesized in the intestinal epithelium during Triglycerides 160 absorption of fatty acids from the intestines. Protein 200 The primary function of the lipoproteins is to transport their lipid components in the blood. The VLDLs transport triglycerides synthesized
