Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


160 absorption of fatty acids from the intestines. Protein 200 The primary function of the lipoproteins is to transport their lipid components in the blood. The VLDLs transport triglycerides synthesized in the liver mainly to the adipose Types of Lipoproteins. Aside from the chylomicrons, tissue. The other lipoproteins are especially important in which are very large lipoproteins, there are four ma- different stages of phospholipid and cholesterol transport jor types of lipoproteins, classified by their densities as from the liver to the peripheral tissues or from the periph- measured in the ultracentrifuge: (1) very low density lipo- ery back to the liver. Later in the chapter, we discuss in more proteins (VLDLs), which contain high concentrations of detail special problems of cholesterol transport in relation 855 UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation to the disease atherosclerosis, which is associated with the by the overall rate at which lipids are being used for en- development of fatty lesions on the insides of arterial walls. ergy. The liver may also store large amounts of lipids in peo- Fat Deposits ple who are obese or have lipodystrophy, a condition char- Large quantities of fat are stored in two major tissues of the acterized by atrophy or genetic deficiency of adipocytes. In body, the adipose tissue and the liver. The adipose tissue is both of these conditions, excess fat that cannot be stored in usually called fat deposits, or simply tissue fat. adipose tissue accumulates in the liver and, to a lesser ex- tent, in other tissues that normally store minimal amounts Adipose Tissue of lipids. A major function of adipose tissue is storage of triglycer- The liver cells, in addition to containing triglycerides, ides until they are needed to provide energy elsewhere in contain large quantities of phospholipids and cholesterol, the body. Additional functions are to provide heat insula- which are continually synthesized by the liver. Also, the tion for the body, as discussed in Chapter 74, and secretion liver cells are much more capable of desaturating fatty ac- of hormones, such as leptin and adiponectin, which affect ids than are other tissues, and thus liver triglycerides nor- multiple body functions, including appetite and energy ex- mally are much more unsaturated than the triglycerides of penditure, as discussed in Chapter 72. adipose tissue. This capability of the liver to desaturate fatty Fat Cells (Adipocytes) Store Triglycerides. The fat cells acids is
