Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


than the triglycerides of penditure, as discussed in Chapter 72. adipose tissue. This capability of the liver to desaturate fatty Fat Cells (Adipocytes) Store Triglycerides. The fat cells acids is functionally important to all tissues of the body (adipocytes) of adipose tissue are modified fibroblasts that because many structural elements of all cells contain rea- store almost pure triglycerides in quantities as great as 80% sonable quantities of unsaturated fats, and their principal to 95% of the entire cell volume. Triglycerides inside the fat source is the liver. This desaturation is accomplished by a cells are generally in a liquid form. When the tissues are dehydrogenase in the liver cells. exposed to prolonged cold, the fatty acid chains of the cell Use of Triglycerides for Energy: Formation of triglycerides, over a period of weeks, become either shorter Adenosine Triphosphate or more unsaturated to decrease their melting point, there- by always allowing the fat to remain in a liquid state. This The dietary intake of fat varies considerably in persons of characteristic is particularly important because only liquid different cultures, averaging as little as 10% to 15% of ca- fat can be hydrolyzed and transported from the cells. loric intake in some Asian populations to as much as 35% Fat cells can synthesize very small amounts of fatty acids to 50% of the calories in many Western populations. For and triglycerides from carbohydrates; this function supple- many persons the use of fats for energy is therefore as im- ments the synthesis of fat in the liver, as discussed later in portant as the use of carbohydrates. In addition, many of the chapter. the carbohydrates ingested with each meal are converted Tissue Lipases Permit Exchange of Fat Between into triglycerides, stored, and used later in the form of fatty Adipose Tissue and the Blood. As discussed earlier, large acids released from the triglycerides for energy. Hydrolysis of Triglycerides Into Fatty Acids and Glyc- quantities of lipases are present in adipose tissue. Some of these enzymes catalyze the deposition of cell triglycerides erol. The first stage in using triglycerides for energy is their from the chylomicrons and lipoproteins. Others, when ac- hydrolysis into fatty acids and glycerol. Then, both the fatty tivated by hormones, cause splitting of the triglycerides of acids and the glycerol are transported in the blood to the the fat cells to release free fatty acids. Because of the rapid
