Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


hormones, cause splitting of the triglycerides of acids and the glycerol are transported in the blood to the the fat cells to release free fatty acids. Because of the rapid active tissues, where they will be oxidized to give energy. exchange of fatty acids, the triglycerides in fat cells are re- Almost all cells—with some exceptions, such as brain tis- newed about once every 2 to 3 weeks, which means that sue and red blood cells—can use fatty acids for energy. the fat stored in the tissues today is not the same fat that Glycerol, upon entering the active tissue, is immedi- was stored last month, thus emphasizing the dynamic state ately changed by intracellular enzymes into glycerol- 3- of storage fat. phosphate, which enters the glycolytic pathway for glucose breakdown and is thus used for energy. Before the fatty ac- Liver Lipids ids can be used for energy, they must be processed further The principal functions of the liver in lipid metabolism are in the mitochondria. to (1) degrade fatty acids into small compounds that can be Entry of Fatty Acids Into Mitochondria. Degradation used for energy; (2) synthesize triglycerides, mainly from and oxidation of fatty acids occur only in the mitochondria. carbohydrates, but to a lesser extent from proteins as well; Therefore, the first step for the use of fatty acids is their and (3) synthesize other lipids from fatty acids, especially transport into the mitochondria using carnitine as a carrier. cholesterol and phospholipids. Once inside the mitochondria, fatty acids split away from Large quantities of triglycerides appear in the liver dur- carnitine and are degraded and oxidized. ing (1) the early stages of starvation, (2) in diabetes mel- Degradation of Fatty Acids to Acetyl Coenzyme A by litus, and (3) in any other condition in which fat instead Beta- Oxidation. Fatty acids are degraded in the mitochon- of carbohydrates is being used for energy. In these condi- dria by progressive release of two-c arbon segments in the tions, large quantities of triglycerides are mobilized from form of acetyl coenzyme A (acetyl- CoA). This degradation the adipose tissue, transported as free fatty acids in the process, which is shown in Figure 69- 3, is called beta- blood, and redeposited as triglycerides in the liver, where oxidation of fatty acids. the initial stages of much of fat degradation begin. Thus, To understand the essential steps in the beta- oxidation
