Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


redeposited as triglycerides in the liver, where oxidation of fatty acids. the initial stages of much of fat degradation begin. Thus, To understand the essential steps in the beta- oxidation under normal physiological conditions, the total amount process, note that in Equation 1 in Figure 69- 3, the first step of triglycerides in the liver is determined to a great extent is combination of the fatty acid molecule with coenzyme 856 Chapter 69 Lipid Metabolism Thiokinase (1) RCH CH CH COOH + CoA + ATP RCH CH CH COCoA + AMP + Pyrophosphate 2 2 2 2 2 2 (Fatty acid) (Fatty acyl-CoA) Acyl dehydrogenase (2) RCH CH CH COCoA + FAD RCH CH=CHCOCoA + FADH 2 2 2 2 2 (Fatty acyl-CoA) Enoyl hydrase (3) RCH CH=CHCOCoA + H O RCH CHOHCH COCoA 2 2 2 2 (cid:31)-Hydroxyacyl (4) RCH CHOHCH COCoA + NAD+ RCH COCH COCoA + NADH + H+ 2 2 2 2 dehydrogenase Thiolase (5) RCH COCH COCoA + CoA RCH COCoA + CH COCoA 2 2 2 3 (Fatty acyl-CoA)(Acetyl-CoA) Figure 69- 3. Beta oxidation of fatty acids to yield acetyl coenzyme A. A (CoA) to form fatty acyl-C oA. In Equations 2, 3, and 4, reduced flavin adenine dinucleotide (FADH ), reduced nic- 2 the beta carbon (the second carbon from the right) of the otinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH), and H+. There- fatty acyl-C oA binds with an oxygen molecule—that is, the fore, for every stearic fatty acid molecule that is split to beta carbon becomes oxidized. form 9 acetyl- CoA molecules, 32 extra hydrogen atoms are Then, in Equation 5, the right-h and two- carbon portion removed. In addition, for each of the 9 molecules of acetyl- of the molecule is split off to release acetyl-C oA into the cell CoA that are subsequently degraded by the citric acid cy- fluid. At the same time, another CoA molecule binds at the cle, 8 more hydrogen atoms are removed, making another end of the remaining portion of the fatty acid molecule, and 72 hydrogen atoms. Thus a total of 104 hydrogen atoms are thus a new fatty acyl- CoA molecule is formed; this time, eventually released by the degradation of each stearic acid however, the molecule is two carbon atoms shorter because molecule. Of this group, 34 are removed from the degrad- of the loss of the first acetyl- CoA from its terminal end.
