Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the molecule is two carbon atoms shorter because molecule. Of this group, 34 are removed from the degrad- of the loss of the first acetyl- CoA from its terminal end. ing fatty acids by flavoproteins and 70 are removed by nico- Next, this shorter fatty acyl- CoA enters into Equation tinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) as NADH and H+. 2 and progresses through Equations 3, 4, and 5 to release These two groups of hydrogen atoms are oxidized in the another acetyl-C oA molecule, thus shortening the original mitochondria, as discussed in Chapter 68, but they enter fatty acid molecule by another two carbons. In addition to the oxidative system at different points. Therefore, 1 mol- the released acetyl- CoA molecules, four atoms of hydrogen ecule of ATP is synthesized for each of the 34 flavoprotein are released from the fatty acid molecule at the same time, hydrogens, and 1.5 molecules of ATP are synthesized for entirely separate from the acetyl- CoA. each of the 70 NADH and H+ hydrogens. This makes 34 Oxidation of Acetyl- CoA. The acetyl- CoA molecules plus 105, or a total of 139 molecules of ATP formed by the formed by beta-o xidation of fatty acids in the mitochondria oxidation of hydrogen derived from each molecule of stear- enter immediately into the citric acid cycle (see Chapter 68), ic acid. Another 9 molecules of ATP are formed in the citric combining first with oxaloacetic acid to form citric acid, acid cycle itself (separate from the ATP released by the oxi- which then is degraded into carbon dioxide and hydrogen dation of hydrogen), 1 for each of the nine acetyl-C oA mol- atoms. The hydrogen is subsequently oxidized by the che- ecules metabolized. Thus, a total of 148 molecules of ATP miosmotic oxidative system of the mitochondria, which was are formed during the complete oxidation of 1 molecule of also explained in Chapter 68. The net reaction in the citric stearic acid. However, 2 high- energy bonds are consumed acid cycle for each molecule of acetyl- CoA is the following: in the initial combination of CoA with the stearic acid mol- ecule, making a net gain of 146 molecules of ATP. CHCOCoA+Oxaloacetic acid+3HO+ADP 3 2 Formation of Acetoacetic Acid in the Liver and Its Citricacidcycle→ Transport in the Blood 2CCO +8H+HCoA+ATP+Oxaloacetic acid 2 A large share of the initial degradation of fatty acids occurs in the liver,
