Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


20 times normal, thus leading −CO 2 to extreme acidosis, as explained in Chapter 31. OH O O The acetone that is formed during ketosis is a volatile substance, some of which is blown off in small quantities CH CH CH C OH CH C CH 3 2 3 3 in the expired air of the lungs, thus giving the breath an (cid:31)-Hydroxybutyric acid Acetone acetone smell that is frequently used to diagnose ketosis. Adaptation to a High-F at Diet. When changing slowly The acetoacetic acid, β- hydroxybutyric acid, and ac- from a carbohydrate diet to a diet almost entirely of fat, a person’s body adapts to use far more acetoacetic acid than etone diffuse freely through the liver cell membranes and usual, and in this case, ketosis normally does not occur. For are transported by the blood to the peripheral tissues. Here instance, in the Inuit (Eskimos), who sometimes live mainly they again diffuse into the cells, where reverse reactions on a fat diet, ketosis does not develop. Undoubtedly, several occur, and acetyl- CoA molecules are formed. These mol- factors, none of which is clear, enhance the rate of acetoacet- ecules in turn enter the citric acid cycle and are oxidized for ic acid metabolism by the cells. After a few weeks, even the energy, as already explained. Normally, the acetoacetic acid and β-h ydroxybutyric brain cells, which normally derive almost all their energy from glucose, can derive 50% to 75% of their energy from fats. acid that enter the blood are transported so rapidly to the tissues that their combined concentration in the plasma Synthesis of Triglycerides From Carbohydrates seldom rises above 3 mg/dl. Yet, despite this small con- Whenever a greater quantity of carbohydrates enters the centration in the blood, large quantities are actually trans- body than can be used immediately for energy or can be ported, as is also true for free fatty acid transport. The stored in the form of glycogen, the excess is rapidly con- rapid transport of both these substances results from their verted into triglycerides and stored in this form in the adi- high solubility in the membranes of the target cells, which pose tissue. allows almost instantaneous diffusion into the cells. Ketosis in Starvation, Diabetes, and Other Diseases. In humans, most triglyceride synthesis occurs in the liver, but minute quantities are also synthesized in the adi- The concentrations of acetoacetic acid,
