Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Ketosis in Starvation, Diabetes, and Other Diseases. In humans, most triglyceride synthesis occurs in the liver, but minute quantities are also synthesized in the adi- The concentrations of acetoacetic acid, β- hydroxybutyric pose tissue. The triglycerides formed in the liver are trans- acid, and acetone occasionally rise to levels many times ported mainly in VLDLs to the adipose tissue, where they normal in the blood and interstitial fluids; this condition are stored. is called ketosis because acetoacetic acid is a keto acid. The Conversion of Acetyl- CoA Into Fatty Acids. The first three compounds are called ketone bodies. Ketosis occurs step in the synthesis of triglycerides is conversion of car- especially as a consequence of starvation, in persons with bohydrates into acetyl- CoA. As explained in Chapter 68, diabetes mellitus, and sometimes even when a person’s diet this conversion occurs during the normal degradation of is composed almost entirely of fat. In all these states, essen- glucose by the glycolytic system. Because fatty acids are ac- tially no carbohydrates are metabolized—in starvation and tually large polymers of acetic acid, it is easy to understand with a high- fat diet because carbohydrates are not availa- how acetyl- CoA can be converted into fatty acids. How- ble, and in diabetes because insulin is not available to cause ever, the synthesis of fatty acids from acetyl-C oA is not glucose transport into the cells. achieved by simply reversing the oxidative degradation de- When carbohydrates are not used for energy, almost all scribed earlier. Instead, this occurs by the two- step process the energy of the body must come from fat metabolism. We shown in Figure 69- 4, using malonyl- CoA and reduced shall see later in the chapter that the unavailability of carbo- nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) as hydrates automatically increases the rate of removal of fatty the principal intermediates in the polymerization process. acids from adipose tissues. In addition, several hormonal factors—such as increased secretion of glucocorticoids by Combination of Fatty Acids With α- Glycerophosphate the adrenal cortex, increased secretion of glucagon by the to Form Triglycerides pancreas, and decreased secretion of insulin by the pan- Once the synthesized fatty acid chains have grown to con- creas—further enhance removal of fatty acids from the fat tain 14 to 18 carbon atoms, they bind with glycerol to form tissues. As a result, large quantities of fatty acids become triglycerides. The enzymes that
