Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


acids from the fat tain 14 to 18 carbon atoms, they bind with glycerol to form tissues. As a result, large quantities of fatty acids become triglycerides. The enzymes that cause this conversion are available (1) to the peripheral tissue cells to be used for en- highly specific for fatty acids, with chain lengths of 14 car- ergy and (2) to the liver cells, where much of the fatty acid bon atoms or greater, a factor that controls the physical is converted to ketone bodies. quality of the triglycerides stored in the body. The ketone bodies pour out of the liver to be carried As shown in Figure 69- 5, the glycerol portion of triglyc- to the cells. For several reasons, the cells are limited in the erides is furnished by α- glycerophosphate, which is another amount of ketone bodies that can be oxidized. The most product derived from the glycolytic scheme of glucose deg- important reason for this limitation is that one of the radation. This mechanism is discussed in Chapter 68. 858 Chapter 69 Lipid Metabolism Efficiency of Carbohydrate Conversion Into Fat. Dur- Synthesis of Triglycerides From Proteins ing triglyceride synthesis, only about 15% of the original en- Many amino acids can be converted into acetyl- CoA, as ergy in the glucose is lost in the form of heat; the remaining discussed in Chapter 70. The acetyl- CoA can then be syn- 85% is transferred to the stored triglycerides. thesized into triglycerides. Therefore, when people have Importance of Fat Synthesis and Storage. Fat synthesis more proteins in their diets than their tissues can use as from carbohydrates is especially important for two reasons: proteins, a large share of the excess is stored as fat. 1. The ability of the different cells of the body to store car- Regulation of Energy Release From Triglycerides bohydrates in the form of glycogen is generally slight; a maximum of only a few hundred grams of glycogen Carbohydrates Are Preferred Over Fats for Energy can be stored in the liver, the skeletal muscles, and all When Excess Carbohydrates Are Available. When excess other tissues of the body put together. In contrast, many carbohydrates are available in the body, carbohydrates are kilograms of fat can be stored in adipose tissue. There- used preferentially over triglycerides for energy. Several fore, fat synthesis provides a means by which the energy reasons exist for this “fat- sparing”
