Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


can be stored in adipose tissue. There- used preferentially over triglycerides for energy. Several fore, fat synthesis provides a means by which the energy reasons exist for this “fat- sparing” effect of carbohydrates. of excess ingested carbohydrates (and proteins) can be First, fats in adipose tissue cells are present in two stored for later use. Indeed, the average person has al- forms: stored triglycerides and small quantities of free most 150 times as much energy stored in the form of fat fatty acids. They are in constant equilibrium with each as stored in the form of carbohydrate. other. When excess α-g lycerophosphate is present (which 2. Each gram of fat contains almost two and a half times the occurs when excess carbohydrates are available), the ex- calories of energy contained by each gram of glycogen. cess α- glycerophosphate binds the free fatty acids in the Therefore, for a given weight gain, a person can store form of stored triglycerides. As a result, the equilibrium several times as much energy in the form of fat as in the between free fatty acids and triglycerides shifts toward form of carbohydrate, which is exceedingly important the stored triglycerides; consequently, only minute quan- when an animal must be highly motile to survive. tities of fatty acids are available to be used for energy. Failure to Synthesize Fats From Carbohydrates in the Because α- glycerophosphate is an important product of Absence of Insulin. When insufficient insulin is available, glucose metabolism, the availability of large amounts of as occurs in persons with serious cases of diabetes mellitus, glucose automatically inhibits the use of fatty acids for fats are poorly synthesized, if at all, for the following reasons. energy. First, when insulin is not available, glucose does not enter Second, when carbohydrates are available in excess, the fat and liver cells satisfactorily, so little of the acetyl-C oA fatty acids are synthesized more rapidly than they are de- and NADPH needed for fat synthesis can be derived from graded. This effect is caused partially by the large quantities glucose. Second, lack of glucose in the fat cells greatly reduc- of acetyl-C oA formed from the carbohydrates and by the es the availability of α-g lycerophosphate, which also makes low concentration of free fatty acids in the adipose tissue, it difficult for the tissues to form triglycerides. thus creating conditions appropriate for the conversion of acetyl- CoA into
