Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


makes low concentration of free fatty acids in the adipose tissue, it difficult for the tissues to form triglycerides. thus creating conditions appropriate for the conversion of acetyl- CoA into fatty acids. An even more important effect that promotes conver- sion of carbohydrates to fats is the following: The first step, Step 1: CH COCoA + CO + ATP which is the rate-l imiting step, in the synthesis of fatty acids 3 2 (Acetyl-CoA carboxylase) is carboxylation of acetyl- CoA to form malonyl- CoA. The rate of this reaction is controlled primarily by the enzyme COOH acetyl- CoA carboxylase, the activity of which is accelerated in the presence of intermediates of the citric acid cycle. CH + ADP + PO −3 2 4 When excess carbohydrates are being used, these interme- diates increase, automatically causing increased synthesis O C CoA of fatty acids. Malonyl-CoA Thus, an excess of carbohydrates in the diet not only Step 2: acts as a fat- sparer but also increases fat stores. In fact, all 1 Acetyl-CoA + Malonyl-CoA + 16NADPH + 16H+ the excess carbohydrates not used for energy or stored in 1 Steric acid + 8CO 2 + 9CoA + 16NADP+ + 7H 2O the small glycogen deposits of the body are converted to fat for storage. Figure 69- 4. Synthesis of fatty acids. Glucose Pentose Glycolytic phosphate pathway pathway (cid:31)-Glycerophosphate + Acetyl-CoA + NADH + H+ NADPH + H+ Fatty acids Figure 69- 5. Overall schema for synthesis of Triglycerides triglycerides from glucose. 859 UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation Acceleration of Fat Utilization for Energy in the Ab- then stored almost entirely as fat in the adipose tissue, to be sence of Carbohydrates. All the fat- sparing effects of used later for energy. The ability of humans to store excess carbohydrates are lost and actually reversed when carbo- energy in adipose tissue is tremendous, with some people hydrates are not available. The equilibrium shifts in the op- achieving body weights in excess of 500 kilograms (1100 posite direction, and fat is mobilized from adipose cells and pounds), mainly as a result of fat accumulation. used for energy in place of carbohydrates. Several strains of rodents have been found in which he- Also important are several hormonal changes that take reditary obesity occurs. In at least one of these strains, the place to promote rapid fatty acid mobilization from adipose obesity
