Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


he- Also important are several hormonal changes that take reditary obesity occurs. In at least one of these strains, the place to promote rapid fatty acid mobilization from adipose obesity is caused by ineffective mobilization of fat from the tissue. Among the most important of these hormonal changes adipose tissue by tissue lipase, while synthesis and storage of is a marked decrease in pancreatic secretion of insulin caused fat continue normally. Such a one- way process causes pro- by the absence of carbohydrates. This decrease in insulin not gressive enhancement of the fat stores, resulting in severe only reduces the rate of glucose utilization by the tissues but obesity. Multiple genetic factors that influence brain feeding also decreases fat storage, which further shifts the equilibrium centers or pathways that control energy expenditure or that in favor of fat metabolism in place of carbohydrates. alter energy storage can also cause hereditary obesity in hu- Hormonal Regulation of Fat Utilization. At least seven mans. However, monogenic (single gene) causes of human of the hormones secreted by the endocrine glands have sig- obesity are rare, as discussed in Chapter 72. nificant effects on fat utilization. Some important hormo- Phospholipids and Cholesterol nal effects on fat metabolism, in addition to lack of insulin, Phospholipids are noted here. Probably the most dramatic increase that occurs in fat The major types of body phospholipids are lecithins, cepha- utilization is that observed during heavy exercise. This in- lins, and sphingomyelin; their typical chemical formulas are crease results almost entirely from release of epinephrine shown in Figure 69- 6. Phospholipids always contain one and norepinephrine by the adrenal medullae during exercise, as a result of sympathetic stimulation. These two hormones directly activate hormone- sensitive triglyceride lipase, which O is present in abundance in the fat cells, and this activation H C O C (CH ) CH CH (CH ) CH causes rapid breakdown of triglycerides and mobilization of 2 27 27 3 fatty acids. Sometimes the free fatty acid concentration in O the blood of an exercising person rises as much as eightfold, HC O C (CH ) CH 216 3 and the use of these fatty acids by the muscles for energy is correspondingly increased. Other types of stress that acti- O CH 3 CH vate the sympathetic nervous system can also increase fatty 3 H C O P O CH CH N+ 2 2 2 acid
