Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of stress that acti- O CH 3 CH vate the sympathetic nervous system can also increase fatty 3 H C O P O CH CH N+ 2 2 2 acid mobilization and utilization in a similar manner. CH 3 Stress also causes large quantities of adrenocorticotropic OH A lecithin hormone (ACTH) to be released by the anterior pituitary gland, which causes the adrenal cortex to secrete extra O quantities of glucocorticoids. Both ACTH and glucocorti- H C O C (CH ) CH CH (CH ) CH coids activate either the same hormone- sensitive triglycer- 2 27 27 3 ide lipase as that activated by epinephrine and norepineph- O rine or a similar lipase. When ACTH and glucocorticoids HC O C (CH ) CH are secreted in excessive amounts for long periods, as oc- 216 3 curs in the endocrine condition called Cushing’s syndrome, O fats are frequently mobilized to such a great extent that H C O P O CH CH N+H ketosis results. ACTH and glucocorticoids are then said to 2 2 2 3 have a ketogenic effect. Growth hormone has an effect simi- OH lar to but weaker than that of ACTH and glucocorticoids A cephalin in activating hormone- sensitive lipase. Therefore, growth hormone can also have a mild ketogenic effect. CH 3 Thyroid hormone indirectly causes rapid mobilization of (CH ) fat by increasing overall rate of energy metabolism in all 212 cells of the body under the influence of this hormone. The CH resulting reduction in acetyl-C oA and other intermediates CH of both fat and carbohydrate metabolism in the cells is a stimulus to fat mobilization. HO C H O The effects of the different hormones on metabolism are HC NH C (CH ) CH discussed further in the chapters dealing with each hormone. 216 3 O CH Obesity—Excess Deposition of Fat 3 CH HC O P O CH CH N+ Obesity is discussed in Chapter 72 in relation to dietary bal- H 2 2 CH 3 ances, but briefly, it is caused by the ingestion of greater OH Sphingomyelin amounts of food than can be used by the body for energy. The excess food, whether fats, carbohydrates, or proteins, is Figure 69- 6. Typical phospholipids. 860 Chapter 69 Lipid Metabolism or more fatty acid molecules and one phosphoric acid radi- Indeed, about 70% of the cholesterol in the lipoproteins of cal, and they usually
