Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


phospholipids. 860 Chapter 69 Lipid Metabolism or more fatty acid molecules and one phosphoric acid radi- Indeed, about 70% of the cholesterol in the lipoproteins of cal, and they usually contain a nitrogenous base. Although the plasma is in the form of cholesterol esters. the chemical structures of phospholipids are somewhat Formation of Cholesterol. Besides the cholesterol ab- variant, their physical properties are similar because they sorbed each day from the gastrointestinal tract, which is are all lipid soluble, transported in lipoproteins, and used called exogenous cholesterol, an even greater quantity is throughout the body for various structural purposes, such formed in the cells of the body, called endogenous cholester- as in cell membranes and intracellular membranes. ol. Essentially all the endogenous cholesterol that circulates Formation of Phospholipids. Phospholipids are syn- in the lipoproteins of the plasma is formed by the liver, but thesized in essentially all cells of the body, although cer- all other cells of the body form at least some cholesterol, tain cells have a special ability to form great quantities of which is consistent with the fact that many of the membra- them. Probably 90% of phospholipids are formed in liver nous structures of all cells are partially composed of this cells; substantial quantities are also formed by the intestinal substance. epithelial cells during lipid absorption from the gut. The basic structure of cholesterol is a sterol nucleus, The rate of phospholipid formation is governed to some which is synthesized entirely from multiple molecules of extent by the usual factors that control the overall rate of acetyl- CoA. In turn, the sterol nucleus can be modified by fat metabolism because, when triglycerides are deposited various side chains to form (1) cholesterol; (2) cholic acid, in the liver, the rate of phospholipid formation increases. which is the basis of the bile acids formed in the liver; and Also, specific chemical substances are needed for the for- (3) many important steroid hormones secreted by the adre- mation of some phospholipids. For instance, choline, either nal cortex, the ovaries, and the testes (these hormones are obtained in the diet or synthesized in the body, is neces- discussed in later chapters). sary for formation of lecithin, because choline is the nitrog- Factors That Affect Plasma Cholesterol Concentration— enous base of the lecithin molecule. In addition, inositol is Feedback Control of Body Cholesterol. Among the impor- necessary for formation of some
