Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


nitrog- Factors That Affect Plasma Cholesterol Concentration— enous base of the lecithin molecule. In addition, inositol is Feedback Control of Body Cholesterol. Among the impor- necessary for formation of some cephalins. tant factors that affect plasma cholesterol concentration are Specific Uses of Phospholipids. Phospholipids have sev- the following: eral functions, including the following: 1. An increase in the amount of cholesterol ingested each 1. Phospholipids are an important constituent of lipopro- day may increase the plasma concentration slight- teins in the blood and are essential for formation and ly. However, when cholesterol is ingested, the rising function of most of these lipoproteins; in the absence concentration of cholesterol inhibits the most essen- of phospholipids, serious abnormalities of transport of tial enzyme for endogenous synthesis of cholesterol, cholesterol and other lipids can occur. 3- hydroxy- 3- methylglutaryl CoA reductase, thus pro- 2. Thromboplastin, which is necessary to initiate the viding an intrinsic feedback control system to prevent clotting process, is composed mainly of one of the an excessive increase in plasma cholesterol concentra- cephalins. tion. As a result, plasma cholesterol concentration usu- 3. Large quantities of sphingomyelin are present in the ally is not changed upward or downward more than nervous system; this substance acts as an electrical in- ±15% by altering the amount of cholesterol in the diet, sulator in the myelin sheath around nerve fibers. although the response of individuals differs markedly. 4. Phospholipids are donors of phosphate radicals when 2. A diet high in saturated fat increases blood cholesterol these radicals are necessary for different chemical reac- concentration 15% to 25%, especially when this diet is tions in the tissues. associated with excess weight gain and obesity. This in- 5. One of the most important functions of phospholipids crease in blood cholesterol results from increased fat is participation in formation of structural elements— deposition in the liver, which then provides increased mainly membranes—in cells throughout the body, as quantities of acetyl- CoA in the liver cells for the pro- discussed in the next section of this chapter in connec- duction of cholesterol. Therefore, to decrease the blood tion with a similar function for cholesterol. cholesterol concentration, maintaining a normal body weight and a diet low in saturated fat are even more im- Cholesterol portant than maintaining a diet low in cholesterol. Cholesterol, the formula of which is shown in Figure 69- 7, 3. Ingestion of fat containing highly
