Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


are even more im- Cholesterol portant than maintaining a diet low in cholesterol. Cholesterol, the formula of which is shown in Figure 69- 7, 3. Ingestion of fat containing highly unsaturated fatty ac- is present in the normal diet, and it can be absorbed slowly ids usually depresses the blood cholesterol concentra- from the gastrointestinal tract into the intestinal lymph. tion a slight to moderate amount. The mechanism of It is highly fat soluble but only slightly soluble in water. It this effect is unknown, despite the fact that this obser- is specifically capable of forming esters with fatty acids. vation is the basis of much present- day dietary strategy. 4. Lack of insulin or thyroid hormone increases the blood cholesterol concentration, whereas excess thyroid hor- CH CH 3 3 mone decreases the concentration. These effects are CH 3 CH (CH ) CH probably caused mainly by changes in the degree of ac- 23 tivation of specific enzymes responsible for the metabo- CH 3 CH 3 lism of lipids and overall metabolic rate. 5. Genetic disorders of cholesterol metabolism may greatly increase plasma cholesterol levels. For example, muta- HO tions of the LDL receptor gene prevent the liver from adequately removing the cholesterol- rich LDLs from Figure 69- 7. Cholesterol. 861 UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation the plasma. As discussed later, this phenomenon causes Arteriosclerosis, in contrast, is a general term that refers to the liver to produce excessive amounts of cholesterol. thickened and stiffened blood vessels of all sizes. Mutations of the gene that encodes apolipoprotein B, One abnormality that can be measured very early in the part of the LDL that binds to the receptor, also cause blood vessels that later become atherosclerotic is damage excessive cholesterol production by the liver. to the vascular endothelium. This damage, in turn, increas- Specific Uses of Cholesterol in the Body. By far the most es the expression of adhesion molecules on endothelial cells abundant non-m embranous use of cholesterol in the body and decreases their ability to release nitric oxide and other is to form cholic acid in the liver. As much as 80% of choles- substances that help prevent adhesion of macromolecules, terol is converted into cholic acid. As explained in Chapter platelets, and monocytes to the endothelium. After damage 71, cholic acid is conjugated with other substances to form to the vascular endothelium occurs, circulating monocytes
