Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


acid. As explained in Chapter platelets, and monocytes to the endothelium. After damage 71, cholic acid is conjugated with other substances to form to the vascular endothelium occurs, circulating monocytes bile salts, which promote digestion and absorption of fats. and lipids (mostly LDLs) begin to accumulate at the site of A small quantity of cholesterol is used by (1) the adrenal injury (Figure 69- 8A). The monocytes cross the endothe- glands to form adrenocortical hormones, (2) the ovaries to lium, enter the intima of the vessel wall, and differentiate form progesterone and estrogen, and (3) the testes to form to become macrophages, which then ingest and oxidize the testosterone. These glands can also synthesize their own accumulated lipoproteins, giving the macrophages a foam- sterols and then form hormones from them, as discussed in like appearance. These macrophage foam cells then aggre- the chapters on endocrinology. gate on the blood vessel and form a visible fatty streak. A large amount of cholesterol is precipitated in the With time, the fatty streaks grow larger and coalesce, and corneum of the skin. This cholesterol, along with other li- the surrounding fibrous and smooth muscle tissues prolifer- pids, makes the skin highly resistant to the absorption of ate to form larger and larger plaques (see Figure 69- 8B). Also, water- soluble substances and to the action of many chemi- the macrophages release substances that cause inflammation cal agents because cholesterol and the other skin lipids are and further proliferation of smooth muscle and fibrous tissue highly inert to acids and to many solvents that might other- on the inside surfaces of the arterial wall. The lipid deposits wise easily penetrate the body. Also, these lipid substances plus the cellular proliferation can become so large that the help prevent water evaporation from the skin; without this plaque bulges into the lumen of the artery and greatly reduces protection, the amount of evaporation can be 5 to 10 lit- blood flow, sometimes completely occluding the vessel. Even ers per day (as occurs in patients with burns who have lost without occlusion, the fibroblasts of the plaque eventually de- their skin) instead of the usual 300 to 400 milliliters. posit extensive amounts of dense connective tissue; sclerosis Cellular Structural Functions of Phospholipids and (fibrosis) becomes so great that the arteries become stiff. Still Cholesterol—Especially for Membranes. The previously later, calcium salts often precipitate with the cholesterol and
