Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Cellular Structural Functions of Phospholipids and (fibrosis) becomes so great that the arteries become stiff. Still Cholesterol—Especially for Membranes. The previously later, calcium salts often precipitate with the cholesterol and mentioned uses of phospholipids and cholesterol are of other lipids of the plaques, leading to bony-h ard calcifications only minor importance in comparison with their function that can make the arteries rigid tubes. Both of these later stag- of forming specialized structures, mainly membranes, in es of the disease are called “hardening of the arteries.” all cells of the body. In Chapter 2, it was pointed out that Atherosclerotic arteries lose most of their distensibility, and large quantities of phospholipids and cholesterol are pre- because of the degenerative areas in their walls, they are easily sent in both the cell membrane and the membranes of the ruptured. Also, where the plaques protrude into the flowing internal organelles of all cells. It is also known that the ratio blood, their rough surfaces can cause blood clots to develop, of membrane cholesterol to phospholipids is especially im- with resultant thrombus or embolus formation (see Chapter portant in determining the fluidity of cell membranes. 37), leading to a sudden blockage of all blood flow in the artery. For membranes to be formed, substances that are not Almost half of all deaths in the United States and Eu- soluble in water must be available. In general, the only rope are due to vascular disease. About two-thirds of these substances in the body that are not soluble in water (be- deaths are caused by thrombosis of one or more coronary sides the inorganic substances of bone) are the lipids and arteries. The remaining one-third are caused by thrombosis some proteins. Thus, the physical integrity of cells eve- or hemorrhage of vessels in other organs of the body, espe- rywhere in the body is based mainly on phospholipids, cially the brain (causing strokes), but also the kidneys, liver, cholesterol, and certain insoluble proteins. The polar gastrointestinal tract, limbs, and so forth. charges on the phospholipids also reduce the interfacial Roles of Cholesterol and Lipoproteins in Atherosclerosis tension between the cell membranes and the surround- Increased Low-D ensity Lipoproteins. An important factor ing fluids. in causing atherosclerosis is a high blood plasma concentra- Another fact that indicates the importance of phos- tion of cholesterol in the form of LDLs. The plasma concen- pholipids and cholesterol for the
