Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is a high blood plasma concentra- Another fact that indicates the importance of phos- tion of cholesterol in the form of LDLs. The plasma concen- pholipids and cholesterol for the formation of structural tration of these high-c holesterol LDLs is increased by several elements of the cells is the slow turnover rates of these factors, especially by eating highly saturated fat in the daily substances in most non-h epatic tissues—turnover rates diet, obesity, and physical inactivity. To a much lesser extent, measured in months or years. For instance, their function eating excess cholesterol may also raise plasma levels of LDLs. in brain cells to provide memory processes is related main- Familial Hypercholesterolemia. In 80% to 90% of pa- ly to their indestructible physical properties. tients with familial hypercholesterolemia, the person inher- Atherosclerosis its defective genes for the formation of LDL receptors on the membrane surfaces of the body’s cells. In the absence of Atherosclerosis is a disease of the large and intermediate- these receptors, the liver cannot absorb either IDL or LDL. sized arteries in which fatty lesions called atheromatous Without this absorption, the cholesterol machinery of the plaques develop on the inside surfaces of the arterial walls. liver cells goes on a rampage, producing new c holesterol; 862 Chapter 69 Lipid Metabolism convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9; this enzyme binds to the Arterial lumen LDL receptor and induces a conformational change that Arterial intima Blood monocyte leads to its destruction, thereby reducing LDL absorption by the liver and other cells and increasing plasma choles- terol markedly. Drugs that inhibit PCSK9 are now available Damaged endothelium to treat familial hypercholesterolemia, although they are still very expensive and not widely used. Monocyte Patients with full- blown familial hypercholesterolemia adhered to Adhesion molecule may have blood cholesterol concentrations of 600 to 1000 epithelium mg/dl, levels that are four to six times normal. If untreated, many of these people die before age 30 years because of Monocyte myocardial infarction or other sequelae of atherosclerotic migrating into intima blockage of blood vessels throughout the body. Heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia is relatively common and occurs in about 1 in 500 people. The more Receptor severe form of this disorder caused by homozygous muta- Lipoprotein tions is much rarer, occurring in only about one of every particle million births on average. Role of High-D ensity Lipoproteins in Preventing Macrophage foam cell Atherosclerosis. Much less is known about the
