Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


rarer, occurring in only about one of every particle million births on average. Role of High-D ensity Lipoproteins in Preventing Macrophage foam cell Atherosclerosis. Much less is known about the function of HDLs compared with that of LDLs. It is believed that Lipid A HDLs can actually absorb cholesterol crystals that are be- droplets ginning to be deposited in arterial walls. Animal experi- Growth/inflammatory ments also suggest that HDL may have other actions that factors protect against atherosclerosis, such as inhibition of oxida- tive stress and prevention of inflammation in blood vessels. Endothelium Intima Media Whether or not these mechanisms are true, epidemiologi- Normal artery cal studies indicate that when a person has a high ratio of Smooth high-d ensity to low-d ensity lipoproteins, the likelihood of muscle developing atherosclerosis is greatly reduced. Yet, clinical cells studies with drugs that increase HDL levels have failed Adventitia to demonstrate decreased risk for cardiovascular disease. These discrepant results indicate the need for additional research on the basic mechanisms by which HDL may in- Small fluence atherosclerosis. plaque Other Major Risk Factors for Atherosclerosis Thrombosis of a ruptured plaque In some people with perfectly normal levels of cholesterol and lipoproteins, atherosclerosis still develops. Some of the factors that are known to predispose to atherosclerosis are (1) physical inactivity and obesity, (2) diabetes mellitus, (3) hypertension, (4) hyperlipidemia, and (5) cigarette smoking. B Large plaque Hypertension, for example, increases the risk for ath- erosclerotic coronary artery disease by at least twofold. Figure 69- 8. Development of atherosclerotic plaque. A, Attachment Likewise, persons with diabetes mellitus have, on average, of a monocyte to an adhesion molecule on a damaged endothelial more than a twofold increased risk of developing coronary cell of an artery. The monocyte then migrates through the endothe- artery disease. When hypertension and diabetes mellitus lium into the intimal layer of the arterial wall and is transformed into a macrophage. The macrophage then ingests and oxidizes lipoprotein occur together, the risk for coronary artery disease is in- molecules, becoming a macrophage foam cell. The foam cells release creased by more than eightfold. When hypertension, diabe- substances that cause inflammation and growth of the intimal layer. tes mellitus, and hyperlipidemia are all present, the risk for B, Additional accumulation of macrophages and growth of the in- atherosclerotic coronary artery disease is increased almost tima cause the plaque to grow larger and accumulate lipids. Eventu-
