Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


risk for B, Additional accumulation of macrophages and growth of the in- atherosclerotic coronary artery disease is increased almost tima cause the plaque to grow larger and accumulate lipids. Eventu- 20- fold, suggesting that these factors interact in a synergis- ally, the plaque may occlude the vessel or rupture, causing the blood tic manner to increase the risk of developing atheroscle- in the artery to coagulate and form a thrombus. (Modified from Libby rosis. In many overweight and obese patients, these three P: Inflammation in atherosclerosis. Nature 420:868, 2002.) risk factors do occur together, greatly increasing their risk for atherosclerosis, which in turn may lead to heart attack, it is no longer responsive to the feedback inhibition of too stroke, and kidney disease. much plasma cholesterol. As a result, the number of VLDLs In early and middle adulthood, men are more likely to released by the liver into the plasma increases immensely. develop atherosclerosis than are women of comparable age, A much smaller percentage (∼2%) of persons with famil- suggesting that male sex hormones might be atherogenic or, ial hypercholesterolemia have gain of function mutations conversely, that female sex hormones might be protective. of the PCSK9 gene that encodes the enzyme proprotein 863 UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation Some of these factors cause atherosclerosis by increas- to 50% reduction in plasma levels of LDLs. The statins may ing the concentration of LDLs in the plasma. Others, such also have other beneficial effects that help prevent athero- as hypertension, lead to atherosclerosis by causing damage sclerosis, such as attenuating vascular inflammation. These to the vascular endothelium and other changes in the vas- drugs are now widely used to treat patients who have in- cular tissues that predispose to cholesterol deposition. creased plasma cholesterol levels. To add to the complexity of atherosclerosis, experimen- In general, studies show that for each 1 mg/dl decrease tal studies suggest that excess blood levels of iron can lead in LDL cholesterol in the plasma, there is about a 2% de- to atherosclerosis, perhaps by forming free radicals in the crease in mortality from atherosclerotic heart disease. blood that damage the vessel walls. About one-quarter of Therefore, appropriate preventive measures are valuable in all people have a special type of LDL called lipoprotein(a), decreasing heart attacks. containing an additional protein, apolipoprotein(a), that almost doubles the incidence of atherosclerosis. The pre- cise mechanisms of these
