Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


JA, Carvalho P: Dynamics and functions of lipid droplets. again in the bile. Therefore, any agent that combines with Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 20:137, 2019. the bile acids in the gastrointestinal tract and prevents their Petersen MC, Shulman GI: Mechanisms of insulin action and insulin reabsorption into the circulation can decrease the total bile resistance. Physiol Rev 98:2133, 2018. acid pool in the circulating blood. As a result, far more of Randolph GJ, Miller NE: Lymphatic transport of high-d ensity lipopro- the liver cholesterol is converted into new bile acids. Thus, teins and chylomicrons. J Clin Invest 124:929, 2014. simply eating oat bran, which binds bile acids and is a con- Rosenson RS, Hegele RA, Fazio S, Cannon CP. The evolving future of stituent of many breakfast cereals, increases the proportion PCSK9 inhibitors. J Am Coll Cardiol 72:314, 2018. of liver cholesterol that forms new bile acids rather than Ray KK, Corral P, Morales E, Nicholls SJ: Pharmacological lipid- modification therapies for prevention of ischaemic heart disease: forming new LDLs and atherogenic plaques. Resin agents current and future options. Lancet 394:697, 2019. can also be used to bind bile acids in the gut and increase Scheja L, Heeren J: The endocrine function of adipose tissues in health their fecal excretion, thereby reducing cholesterol synthesis and cardiometabolic disease. Nat Rev Endocrinol 15:507, 2019. by the liver. Smith RL, Soeters MR, Wüst RCI, Houtkooper RH: Metabolic flexibility Another group of drugs called statins competitively as an adaptation to energy resources and requirements in health inhibits hydroxymethylglutaryl- coenzyme A (HMG- CoA) and disease. Endocr Rev 39:489, 2018. reductase, a rate-l imiting enzyme in the synthesis of cho- Tchernof A, Després JP: Pathophysiology of human visceral obesity: lesterol. This inhibition decreases cholesterol synthesis and an update. Physiol Rev 93:359, 2013. increases LDL receptors in the liver, usually causing a 25% Zechner R, Madeo F, Kratky D: Cytosolic lipolysis and lipophagy: two sides of the same coin. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 18:671, 2017. 864 CHAPTER 7 0 Protein Metabolism About three-quarters of the body solids are proteins. is released from the amino radical, and a hydroxyl ion is These proteins include structural proteins, enzymes, released from the carboxyl radical; these two ions com- nucleoproteins, proteins that transport oxygen, proteins bine to form a molecule of water. After the peptide linkage has been formed, an amino radical and a carboxyl radical of the muscle
