Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


nucleoproteins, proteins that transport oxygen, proteins bine to form a molecule of water. After the peptide linkage has been formed, an amino radical and a carboxyl radical of the muscle that cause muscle contraction, and many are still at opposite ends of the new, longer molecule. Each other types that perform specific intracellular and extra- of these radicals is capable of combining with additional cellular functions throughout the body. amino acids to form a peptide chain. Some complicated The basic chemical properties that explain the diverse protein molecules have many thousands of amino acids functions of proteins are so extensive that they constitute combined by peptide linkages, and even the smallest pro- a major portion of the entire discipline of biochemistry. tein molecule usually has more than 20 amino acids com- For this reason, the current discussion is confined to a few bined by peptide linkages. The average is about 400 amino specific aspects of protein metabolism that are important acids. as background for other discussions in this text. Other Linkages in Protein Molecules. Some protein molecules are composed of several peptide chains rather Basic Properties of Proteins than a single chain, and these chains are bound to one an- other by other linkages, often by hydrogen bonding between Amino Acids Are the Principal Constituents of Proteins the CO and NH radicals of the peptides, as follows: The principal constituents of proteins are amino acids. Twenty of these amino acids are present in the body pro- teins in significant quantities. Figure 70- 1, which shows C O H N the chemical formulas of these 20 amino acids, demon- strates that they all have two features in common; each R HC CH R(cid:31) amino acid has an acidic group (–COOH) and a nitrogen atom attached to the molecule, usually represented by the N H O C amino group (–NH ). 2 Peptide Linkages and Peptide Chains. The amino ac- ids of proteins are aggregated into long chains by means of peptide linkages. The chemical nature of this linkage is Many peptide chains are coiled or folded, and the suc- demonstrated by the following reaction: cessive coils or folds are held in a tight spiral or in other shapes by similar hydrogen bonding and other forces. NH HNH 2 Transport and Storage of Amino Acids R CH CO OH+ R(cid:31) CH COOH Blood Amino Acids The normal concentration of amino acids in
