Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


2 Leucine Tryptophan H C H H H H H C H COOH H C H H H C C C COOH Asparagine HH C C C COOH N CH H NH 2 O H NH 2 H NH H C 2 H NH C C C COOH 2 H H H Glutamine Isoleucine Histidine O H H NH H H H H HC N 2 NH 2 C C C C COOH H C C C C COOH CH H H H H H CH 3 NH 2 C N H Tyrosine H C H H H H C NH HO C C COOH 2 COOH H NH 2 Figure 70-1 . Amino acids. The 10 essential amino acids cannot be synthesized in sufficient quantities in the body; these amino acids must be obtained, already formed, from food. Fate of Amino Acids Absorbed From the Gastrointesti- amino acids are absorbed within 5 to 10 minutes by cells nal Tract. The products of protein digestion and absorption throughout the body, especially by the liver. Therefore, large in the gastrointestinal tract are almost entirely amino acids; concentrations of amino acids almost never accumulate in only rarely are polypeptides or whole protein molecules ab- the blood and tissue fluids. Nevertheless, the turnover rate sorbed from the digestive tract into the blood. Soon after of the amino acids is so rapid that many grams of proteins a meal, the amino acid concentration in a person’s blood can be carried from one part of the body to another in the rises, but the increase is usually only a few milligrams per form of amino acids each hour. deciliter, for two reasons: First, protein digestion and ab- Active Transport of Amino Acids Into the Cells. The sorption are usually extended over 2 to 3 hours, which al- molecules of all the amino acids are much too large to lows only small quantities of amino acids to be absorbed diffuse readily through the pores of the cell membranes. at a time. Second, after entering the blood, the additional Therefore, significant quantities of amino acids can move 866 Chapter 70 Protein Metabolism either inward or outward through the membranes only by are replenished by degradation of proteins from other cells facilitated transport or active transport using carrier mech- of the body, especially from liver cells. These effects are anisms. The nature of some of the carrier mechanisms
