Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


from other cells facilitated transport or active transport using carrier mech- of the body, especially from liver cells. These effects are anisms. The nature of some of the carrier mechanisms is particularly noticeable in relation to protein synthesis in not completely understood, but a few are discussed in cancer cells. Cancer cells are often prolific users of amino Chapter 4. acids; therefore, the proteins of the other cells can become Renal Threshold for Amino Acids. In the kidneys, the markedly depleted. different amino acids that are filtered by the glomerular Upper Limit for the Storage of Proteins. Each type of capillaries can be reabsorbed through the proximal tubu- cell has an upper limit with regard to the amount of proteins lar epithelium by secondary active transport, which returns it can store. After all the cells have reached their limits, the them to the blood. However, as is true of other active trans- excess amino acids still in the circulation are degraded into port mechanisms in the renal tubules, there is an upper other products and used for energy, as discussed subse- limit to the rate at which each type of amino acid can be quently, or they are converted to fat or glycogen and stored transported. For this reason, when the concentration of in these forms. a particular type of amino acid becomes too high in the Functional Roles of the Plasma Proteins plasma and glomerular filtrate, the excess that cannot be actively reabsorbed is lost into the urine. The major types of protein present in the plasma are albu- Storage of Amino Acids as Proteins in the Cells min, globulin, and fibrinogen. A major function of albumin is to provide colloid os- After entry into tissue cells, amino acids combine with one motic pressure in the plasma, which prevents plasma loss another by peptide linkages, under the direction of the cell’s from the capillaries, as discussed in Chapter 16. messenger RNA and ribosomal system, to form cellular The globulins perform several enzymatic functions in the proteins. Therefore, the concentration of free amino acids plasma, but equally important, they are principally respon- inside most cells usually remains low, and storage of large sible for both the natural and acquired immunity of the body quantities of free amino acids does not occur in the cells; against invading organisms, as discussed in Chapter 35. instead, they are stored mainly in the form
