Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the body quantities of free amino acids does not occur in the cells; against invading organisms, as discussed in Chapter 35. instead, they are stored mainly in the form of actual pro- Fibrinogen polymerizes into long fibrin threads during teins. However, many of these intracellular proteins can be blood coagulation, thereby forming blood clots that help repair rapidly decomposed again into amino acids under the in- leaks in the circulatory system, as discussed in Chapter 37. fluence of intracellular lysosomal digestive enzymes. These Formation of the Plasma Proteins. Essentially all the amino acids can then be transported back out of the cell albumin and fibrinogen of the plasma proteins, as well as into the blood. Special exceptions to this reversal process 50% to 80% of the globulins, are formed in the liver. The are the proteins in the chromosomes of the nucleus and the remaining globulins, which are formed almost entirely in structural proteins such as collagen and muscle contractile lymphoid tissues, are mainly gamma globulins that consti- proteins. These proteins do not participate significantly in tute antibodies used in the immune system. this reverse digestion and transport back out of the cells. The rate of plasma protein formation by the liver can Some tissues of the body participate in the storage of be extremely high—as much as 30 g/day. Certain disease amino acids to a greater extent than do others. For exam- conditions cause rapid loss of plasma proteins; for example, ple, the liver, which is a large organ and has special sys- severe burns that denude large surface areas of the skin can tems for processing amino acids, can store large quantities cause the loss of several liters of plasma through the denud- of rapidly exchangeable proteins, which is also true of the ed areas each day. The rapid production of plasma proteins kidneys and the intestinal mucosa to a lesser extent. by the liver is valuable in preventing death in such states. Amino Acid Release From Cells as a Means of Regulat- Occasionally, a person with severe renal disease loses as ing Plasma Amino Acid Concentration. Whenever plasma much as 20 grams of plasma protein in the urine each day amino acid concentrations fall below normal levels, the re- for months, and this plasma protein is continually replaced quired amino acids are transported out of the cells to re- mainly by liver production of the required
