Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


levels, the re- for months, and this plasma protein is continually replaced quired amino acids are transported out of the cells to re- mainly by liver production of the required proteins. plenish their supply in the plasma. In this way, the plasma In persons with cirrhosis of the liver, large numbers concentration of each type of amino acid is maintained at a of liver cells are destroyed and replaced by fibrous tis- reasonably constant value. Some of the hormones secreted sue, causing a reduction in the liver’s ability to synthesize by the endocrine glands are able to alter the balance between plasma proteins. As discussed in Chapter 25, liver cirrhosis tissue proteins and circulating amino acids. For example, leads to decreased plasma colloid osmotic pressure, which growth hormone and insulin increase the formation of tis- causes generalized edema. sue proteins, whereas adrenocortical glucocorticoid hor- Plasma Proteins as a Source of Amino Acids for the Tis- mones increase the concentration of plasma amino acids. sues. When the tissues become depleted of proteins, the Reversible Equilibrium Between the Proteins in Differ- plasma proteins can act as a source of rapid replacement. ent Parts of the Body. Because cellular proteins in the liver Indeed, whole plasma proteins can be imbibed in toto by (and, to a much less extent, in other tissues) can be synthe- tissue macrophages through the process of pinocytosis; sized rapidly from plasma amino acids, and because many once in these cells, they are split into amino acids that are of these proteins can be degraded and returned to the plas- transported back into the blood and used throughout the ma almost as rapidly, constant interchange and equilibrium body to build cellular proteins wherever they are needed. occurs between the plasma amino acids and labile proteins In this way, the plasma proteins function as a labile protein in virtually all cells of the body. For example, if a particu- storage medium and represent a readily available source of lar tissue requires proteins, it can synthesize new proteins amino acids whenever a particular tissue requires them. from amino acids of the blood; in turn, blood amino a cids 867 UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation TTiissssuuee cceellllss LLiivveerr cceellllss HO C CH CH CH COOH CH C COOH 2 2 3 + O NH O 2 (Glutamic acid) (Pyruvic acid) PPrrootteeiinnss AAmmiinnoo PPrrootteeiinnss AAmmiinnoo aacciiddss aacciiddss Aminotransferase (Transaminase) AAmmiinnoo
