Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


HO C CH CH CH COOH CH C COOH 2 2 3 + O NH O 2 (Glutamic acid) (Pyruvic acid) PPrrootteeiinnss AAmmiinnoo PPrrootteeiinnss AAmmiinnoo aacciiddss aacciiddss Aminotransferase (Transaminase) AAmmiinnoo aacciiddss BBlloooodd PPllaassmmaa pprrootteeiinnss HO C CH CH C COOH CH CH COOH 2 2 3 + O O NH IImmbbiibbeedd ppllaassmmaa pprrootteeiinn 2 ((cid:31)-Ketoglutaric acid) (Alanine) Figure 70- 3. Synthesis of alanine from pyruvic acid by transamination. RReettiiccuullooeennddootthheelliiaall cceellll and glutamine. Glutamine is present in the tissues in large Figure 70- 2. Reversible equilibrium among the tissue proteins, plas- quantities, and one of its principal functions is to serve as ma proteins, and plasma amino acids. an amino radical storehouse. Reversible Equilibrium Between the Plasma Proteins Note also that the reactions are reversible so that trans- and the Tissue Proteins. As shown in Figure 70- 2, a con- fer of amino groups can also occur during degradation of amino acids, as discussed later. stant state of equilibrium exists among the plasma proteins, Transamination is promoted by several enzymes, the amino acids of the plasma, and the tissue proteins. On among which are the aminotransferases, which are deriva- the basis of radioactive tracer studies, it has been estimated tives of pyridoxine, one of the B vitamins (B ). Without this that normally about 400 grams of body protein are synthe- 6 vitamin, the amino acids are poorly synthesized, and pro- sized and degraded each day as part of the continual state of tein formation cannot proceed normally. flux of amino acids, which demonstrates the general princi- ple of reversible exchange of amino acids among the differ- Use of Proteins for Energy ent proteins of the body. Even during starvation or severe Once the cells are filled to their limits with stored protein, debilitating diseases, the ratio of total tissue proteins to to- any additional amino acids in the body fluids are degraded tal plasma proteins in the body remains relatively constant and used for energy or are stored mainly as fat or second- at about 33:1. arily as glycogen. This degradation occurs almost entirely Because of this reversible equilibrium between plasma in the liver, and it begins with deamination, which is ex- proteins and the other proteins of the body, one of the most plained in the following section. effective therapies for severe, acute whole-b ody protein de- Deamination—Removal of Amino Groups From Amino ficiency is intravenous transfusion of plasma
