Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


one of the most plained in the following section. effective therapies for severe, acute whole-b ody protein de- Deamination—Removal of Amino Groups From Amino ficiency is intravenous transfusion of plasma protein. With- Acids. Deamination occurs mainly by transamination, in a few days, or sometimes within hours, the amino acids which means transfer of the amino group to some accep- of administered protein are distributed throughout the cells tor substance. This process is the reverse of the process for of the body to form new proteins as needed. Essential and Nonessential Amino Acids. Ten of the synthesis of amino acids, which was previously explained. The greatest amount of deamination occurs according amino acids normally present in animal proteins can be to the following transamination schema: synthesized in the cells, whereas the other 10 either cannot be synthesized or are synthesized in quantities too small to (cid:31)-Ketoglutaric acid + Amino acid supply the body’s needs. This second group of amino ac- ids that cannot be synthesized is called the essential amino acids. Use of the word “essential” does not mean that the other 10 “nonessential” amino acids are not required for the Glutamic acid + (cid:31)-Keto acid formation of proteins but only that the others are not essen- tial in the diet because they can be synthesized in the body. Synthesis of the nonessential amino acids depends + NAD+ + H O mainly on the formation of appropriate α- keto acids, which 2 are the precursors of the respective amino acids. For ex- ample, pyruvic acid, which is formed in large quantities NADH + H+ + NH 3 during the glycolytic breakdown of glucose, is the keto acid precursor of the amino acid alanine. Then, by the process of transamination, an amino radical is transferred to the Note from this illustration that the amino group from α- keto acid, and the keto oxygen is transferred to the do- the amino acid is transferred to α- ketoglutaric acid, which nor of the amino radical. This reaction is shown in Figure then becomes glutamic acid. The glutamic acid can then 70- 3. Note that alanine is formed after the amino radical is transfer the amino group to other substances or release transferred to the pyruvic acid from glutamic acid. Amino it in the form of ammonia (NH ). In the process of losing 3 radicals can be transferred from asparagine, aspartic acid, the amino
