Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


pyruvic acid from glutamic acid. Amino it in the form of ammonia (NH ). In the process of losing 3 radicals can be transferred from asparagine, aspartic acid, the amino group, the glutamic acid once again becomes 868 Chapter 70 Protein Metabolism α- ketoglutaric acid, so the cycle can be repeated again and The conversion of amino acids into glucose or glycogen again. To initiate this process, the excess amino acids in the is called gluconeogenesis, and the conversion of amino acids cells, especially in the liver, induce activation of large quan- into keto acids or fatty acids is called ketogenesis. Of the 20 tities of aminotransferases, the enzymes responsible for ini- deaminated amino acids, 18 have chemical structures that tiating most deamination. allow them to be converted into glucose, and 19 of them Urea Formation by the Liver. The ammonia released can be converted into fatty acids. during deamination of amino acids is removed from the Obligatory Degradation of Proteins blood almost entirely by conversion into urea. Two mol- ecules of ammonia (NH ) and one molecule of carbon di- When a person eats no proteins, a certain proportion of body 3 oxide (CO ) combine in the following net reaction: proteins is degraded into amino acids and then deaminated 2 and oxidized. This process involves 20 to 30 grams of protein 2NH 3+CO 2→H 2N−−C−−NH 2+H 2O each day, which is called the obligatory loss of proteins. There- || fore, to prevent net loss of protein from the body, the average O person must ingest a minimum of 20 to 30 grams of protein each day, although this amount depends on multiple factors, Essentially all urea formed in the human body is synthe- including muscle mass, activity, and age; to be on the safe sized in the liver. In the absence of the liver or in persons with side, a minimum of 60 to 75 grams is usually recommended. serious liver disease, ammonia accumulates in the blood. The ratios of the different amino acids in the dietary This accumulation of ammonia is extremely toxic, especially protein must be about the same as the ratios in the body to the brain, and can lead to a state called hepatic coma. tissues if the entire dietary protein is to be fully usable to The stages in the formation of urea are essentially the form new tissue proteins. If one particular
