Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


coma. tissues if the entire dietary protein is to be fully usable to The stages in the formation of urea are essentially the form new tissue proteins. If one particular type of essen- following: tial amino acid is low in concentration, the others become Ornithine + CO + NH unusable because cells synthesize either whole proteins or 2 3 Citrulline none at all, as explained in Chapter 3 in relation to protein −H O 2 synthesis. The unusable amino acids are deaminated and NH 3 oxidized. A protein that has a ratio of amino acids differ- −H 2O ent from that of the average body protein is called a partial protein or an incomplete protein, and such a protein is less Arginine valuable for nutrition than is a complete protein. (Arginase) Effect of Starvation on Protein Degradation. Except for +H 2O the 20 to 30 grams of obligatory protein degradation each Urea day, the body uses almost entirely carbohydrates or fats for energy, as long as they are available. However, after several weeks of starvation, when the quantities of stored carbo- After its formation, the urea diffuses from the liver cells hydrates and fats begin to run out, the amino acids of the into the body fluids and is excreted by the kidneys. blood are rapidly deaminated and oxidized for energy. From Oxidation of Deaminated Amino Acids. Once amino this point on, the proteins of the tissues degrade rapidly—as acids have been deaminated, the resulting keto acids can, much as 125 grams daily—and, as a result, cellular functions in most cases, be oxidized to release energy for metabolic deteriorate precipitously. Because carbohydrate and fat uti- purposes. This oxidation usually involves two successive lization for energy normally occurs in preference to protein processes: utilization, carbohydrates and fats are called protein sparers. 1. The keto acid is changed into an appropriate chemi- Hormonal Regulation of Protein Metabolism cal substance that can enter the citric acid cycle. 2. This substance is degraded by the cycle and used for Growth Hormone Increases the Synthesis of Cellular energy in the same manner that acetyl coenzyme A Proteins. Growth hormone causes the tissue proteins to (acetyl-C oA) derived from carbohydrate and lipid me- increase. The precise mechanism by which this increase tabolism is used, as explained in Chapters 68 and 69. occurs is not fully understood, but it is believed to result In general, the amount
