Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


mechanism by which this increase tabolism is used, as explained in Chapters 68 and 69. occurs is not fully understood, but it is believed to result In general, the amount of adenosine triphosphate mainly from increased transport of amino acids through formed for each gram of protein that is oxidized is slightly the cell membranes, acceleration of the DNA and RNA less than that formed for each gram of glucose that is oxi- transcription and translation processes for protein synthe- dized. sis, and decreased oxidation of tissue proteins. Gluconeogenesis and Ketogenesis. Certain deaminat- Insulin Is Necessary for Protein Synthesis. Total lack of ed amino acids are similar to the substrates normally used insulin reduces protein synthesis to almost zero. Insulin ac- by the cells, mainly the liver cells, to synthesize glucose celerates transport of some amino acids into cells, which or fatty acids. For example, deaminated alanine is pyruvic could be the stimulus for protein synthesis. Also, insulin re- acid, which can be converted into either glucose or gly- duces protein degradation and increases the availability of cogen. Alternatively, it can be converted into acetyl- CoA, glucose to the cells, so the need for amino acids for energy which can then be polymerized into fatty acids. Also, two is correspondingly reduced. molecules of acetyl- CoA can condense to form acetoacetic Glucocorticoids Increase Breakdown of Most Tissue acid, which is one of the ketone bodies, as explained in Proteins. Glucocorticoids secreted by the adrenal cor- Chapter 69. tex decrease the quantity of protein in most tissues while 869 UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation increasing amino acid concentration in the plasma, as well an important general effect by increasing the rates of both as increasing liver proteins and plasma proteins. Gluco- normal anabolic and normal catabolic protein reactions. corticoids increase the rate of breakdown of extrahepatic proteins, thereby making increased quantities of amino acids available in the body fluids. This allows the liver to Bibliography synthesize increased quantities of hepatic cellular proteins Bröer S, Fairweather SJ: Amino acid transport across the mammalian and plasma proteins. intestine. Compr Physiol 9:343, 2018. Testosterone Increases Protein Deposition in Tis- Bröer S, Bröer A: Amino acid homeostasis and signalling in mamma- sues. Testosterone, the male sex hormone, causes in- lian cells and organisms. Biochem J 474:1935, 2017. creased deposition of protein in tissues throughout the Finn PF, Dice JF: Proteolytic and lipolytic responses
