Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Cuthbertson lecture. Amino acids amino acids are also available in the extracellular fluid, thy- and muscle protein metabolism in critical care. Clin Nutr 37:1093, roxine can actually increase the rate of protein synthesis. In 2018. growing animals or human beings, deficiency of thyroxine Wolfe RR, Cifelli AM, Kostas G, Kim IY: Optimizing protein intake in causes growth to be greatly inhibited because of lack of pro- adults: Interpretation and application of the recommended dietary tein synthesis. In essence, it is believed that thyroxine has allowance compared with the acceptable macronutrient distribu- little specific effect on protein metabolism but does have tion range. Adv Nutr 8:266, 2017. 870 CHAPTER 7 1 The Liver Although the liver is a discrete organ, it performs many The endothelial lining of the sinusoids has extremely different interrelating functions. The critical interrelated large pores, some of which are almost 1 micrometer in di- functions of the liver become especially evident when ameter. Beneath this lining, lying between the endothelial cells and the hepatic cells, are narrow tissue spaces called abnormalities of the liver occur. This chapter summarizes the spaces of Disse, also known as the perisinusoidal spaces. some of the major functions of the liver, including the fol- The millions of spaces of Disse connect with lymphatic lowing: (1) filtration and storage of blood; (2) metabolism vessels in the interlobular septa. Therefore, excess fluid in of carbohydrates, proteins, fats, hormones, and foreign these spaces is removed through the lymphatics. Because chemicals; (3) formation of bile; (4) storage of vitamins of the large pores in the endothelium, substances in the and iron; and (5) formation of coagulation factors. plasma move freely into the spaces of Disse. Even large por- tions of the plasma proteins diffuse freely into these spaces. Physiologic Anatomy of the Liver Hepatic Vascular and Lymph Systems The liver is the largest organ in the body, contributing about 2% of the total body weight, or about 1.5 kilograms (3.3 The function of the hepatic vascular system is discussed in pounds) in the average adult human. The basic functional Chapter 15 in connection with the portal veins and can be unit of the liver is the liver lobule, which is a cylindric struc- summarized as follows. ture several millimeters in length and 0.8 to 2 millimeters Blood Flows Through the Liver From the Portal Vein in diameter. The human liver contains 50,000 to 100,000 and Hepatic
