Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ture several millimeters in length and 0.8 to 2 millimeters Blood Flows Through the Liver From the Portal Vein in diameter. The human liver contains 50,000 to 100,000 and Hepatic Artery individual lobules. The Liver Has High Blood Flow and Low Vascular Re- The liver lobule, shown in cut-a way format in Figure sistance. About 1050 ml/min of blood flow from the por- 71- 1, is constructed around a central vein that empties into tal vein into the liver sinusoids, and an additional 300 ml/ the hepatic veins and then into the vena cava. The lobule is min flow into the sinusoids from the hepatic artery, with composed principally of many liver cellular plates (two of the total averaging about 1350 ml/min, which is 27% of the which are shown in Figure 71- 1) that radiate from the cen- resting cardiac output. tral vein like spokes in a wheel. Each hepatic plate is usu- The pressure in the portal vein leading into the liver ally two cells thick, and between the adjacent cells lie small averages about 9 mm Hg, and the pressure in the hepatic bile canaliculi that empty into bile ducts in the fibrous septa vein leading from the liver into the vena cava normally av- separating the adjacent liver lobules. erages about 0 mm Hg. This small pressure difference, only In the septa are small portal venules that receive their 9 mm Hg, shows that the resistance to blood flow through blood mainly from the venous outflow of the gastrointesti- the hepatic sinusoids is normally very low, especially when nal tract via the portal vein. From these venules blood flows one considers that about 1350 ml/min of blood flow by this into flat, branching hepatic sinusoids that lie between the route. hepatic plates and then into the central vein. Thus, the he- Cirrhosis of the Liver Greatly Increases Resistance to patic cells are exposed continuously to portal venous blood. Blood Flow. When liver parenchymal cells are destroyed, Hepatic arterioles are also present in the interlobular they are replaced with fibrous tissue that eventually con- septa. These arterioles supply arterial blood to the septal tracts around the blood vessels, thereby greatly impeding tissues between the adjacent lobules, and many of the small the flow of portal blood through the liver. This disease arterioles also empty directly into the hepatic sinusoids, process is known as cirrhosis of the liver.
