Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


many of the small the flow of portal blood through the liver. This disease arterioles also empty directly into the hepatic sinusoids, process is known as cirrhosis of the liver. It results most most frequently emptying into those located about one commonly from chronic alcoholism or from excess fat ac- third the distance from the interlobular septa, as shown in cumulation in the liver and subsequent liver inflammation, Figure 71- 1. a condition called nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, or NASH. In addition to the hepatic cells, the venous sinusoids are A less severe form of fat accumulation and inflammation lined by two other cell types: (1) typical endothelial cells of the liver, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), is the and (2) large Kupffer cells (also called reticuloendothelial most common cause of liver disease in many industrialized cells), which are resident macrophages that line the sinu- countries, including the United States, and is usually asso- soids and are capable of phagocytizing bacteria and other ciated with obesity and type 2 diabetes. foreign matter in the hepatic sinus blood. 871 UNIT XIII Unit XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation Hepatic artery The Liver Has Very High Lymph Flow Bile Portal Because the pores in the hepatic sinusoids are very perme- duct vein Terminal lymphatics able compared with capillaries in other tissues, they allow ready passage of both fluid and proteins into the spaces of Space of Disse Disse. Therefore, the lymph draining from the liver usually Sinusoids has a protein concentration of about 6 g/dl, which is only Central vein slightly less than the protein concentration of plasma. In addition, the high permeability of the liver sinusoid epithe- lium allows large quantities of lymph to form. Therefore, about half of all the lymph formed in the body under rest- ing conditions arises in the liver. High Hepatic Vascular Pressures Can Cause Fluid Tran- sudation Into the Abdominal Cavity From the Liver and Portal Capillaries—Ascites. When the pressure in the he- patic veins rises only 3 to 7 mm Hg above normal, exces- Liver cell plate sive amounts of fluid begin to transude into the lymph and Kupffer cell leak through the outer surface of the liver capsule directly into the abdominal cavity. This fluid is almost pure plasma, Endothelial cell containing 80% to 90% as much protein as normal plasma. Bile canaliculi At vena caval pressures of 10 to 15 mm Hg, hepatic lymph flow
