Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


almost pure plasma, Endothelial cell containing 80% to 90% as much protein as normal plasma. Bile canaliculi At vena caval pressures of 10 to 15 mm Hg, hepatic lymph flow increases to as much as 20 times normal, and the “sweating” from the surface of the liver can be so great that Lymphatic duct it causes large amounts of free fluid in the abdominal cavity, which is called ascites. Blockage of portal flow through the Figure 71- 1. Basic structure of a liver lobule, showing the liver cellu- lar plates, the blood vessels, the bile-c ollecting system, and the lymph liver also causes high capillary pressures in the entire por- flow system composed of the spaces of Disse and the interlobular tal vascular system of the gastrointestinal tract, resulting in lymphatics. (Modified from Guyton AC, Taylor AE, Granger HJ: Cir- edema of the gut wall and transudation of fluid through the culatory Physiology. Vol 2: Dynamics and Control of the Body Fluids. serosa of the gut into the abdominal cavity. This can also Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1975.) cause ascites. Regulation of Liver Mass—Regeneration Cirrhosis can also follow ingestion of poisons such as carbon tetrachloride, viral diseases such as infectious hepa- The liver possesses a remarkable ability to restore itself after titis, obstruction of the bile ducts, and infectious processes significant hepatic tissue loss from either partial hepatec- in the bile ducts. tomy or acute liver injury, as long as the injury is uncompli- The portal system is also occasionally blocked by a large cated by viral infection or inflammation. Partial hepatec- clot that develops in the portal vein or its major branches. tomy, in which up to 70% of the liver is removed, causes When the portal system is suddenly blocked, the return of the remaining lobes to enlarge and restore the liver to its blood from the intestines and spleen through the liver por- original size. This regeneration is remarkably rapid and re- tal blood flow system to the systemic circulation is imped- quires only 5 to 7 days in rats. During liver regeneration, ed. This impedance results in portal hypertension, with the hepatocytes are estimated to replicate once or twice, and capillary pressure in the intestinal wall increasing to 15 to after the original size and volume of the liver are achieved, 20 mm Hg above normal. If the obstruction is not relieved, the hepatocytes revert to their
