Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to 15 to after the original size and volume of the liver are achieved, 20 mm Hg above normal. If the obstruction is not relieved, the hepatocytes revert to their usual quiescent state. the patient may die within a few hours because of excessive Control of this rapid regeneration of the liver is not well loss of fluid from the capillaries into the lumens and walls understood, but hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) appears to of the intestines. be important in causing liver cell division and growth. HGF The Liver Functions as a Blood Reservoir. Because the is produced by mesenchymal cells in the liver and in other liver is an expandable organ, large quantities of blood can tissues, but not by hepatocytes. Blood levels of HGF rise be stored in its blood vessels. Its normal blood volume, more than 20- fold after partial hepatectomy, but mitogenic including that in the hepatic veins and hepatic sinuses, is responses are usually found only in the liver after these op- about 450 ml, or almost 10% of the body’s total blood vol- erations, suggesting that HGF may be activated only in the ume. When high pressure in the right atrium causes back- affected organ. Other growth factors (especially epidermal pressure in the liver, the liver expands, and 0.5 to 1 liter growth factor) and cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor of extra blood is occasionally stored in the hepatic veins and interleukin 6 may also be involved in stimulating regen- and sinuses. This storage of extra blood occurs especially in eration of liver cells. cases of cardiac failure with peripheral congestion, which is After the liver has returned to its original size, the pro- discussed in Chapter 22. Thus, in effect, the liver is a large, cess of hepatic cell division is terminated. Again, the factors expandable, venous organ capable of acting as a valuable involved are not well understood, although transforming blood reservoir in times of excess blood volume and capa- growth factor- β, a cytokine secreted by hepatic cells, is a ble of supplying extra blood in times of diminished blood potent inhibitor of liver cell proliferation and has been sug- volume. gested as the main terminator of liver regeneration. 872 Chapter 71 The Liver Physiological experiments indicate that liver growth is converted into glucose, thereby helping to maintain a rela- closely regulated by some unknown signal related to body tively
