Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Chapter 71 The Liver Physiological experiments indicate that liver growth is converted into glucose, thereby helping to maintain a rela- closely regulated by some unknown signal related to body tively normal blood glucose concentration. size, so an optimal liver to body weight ratio is maintained Fat Metabolism for optimal metabolic function. In liver diseases associated Although most cells of the body metabolize fat, certain with fibrosis, inflammation, or viral infections, however, aspects of fat metabolism occur mainly in the liver. In fat the regenerative process of the liver is severely impaired metabolism, the liver performs the following specific func- and liver function deteriorates. tions, as summarized from Chapter 69: The Hepatic Macrophage System Serves a Blood- 1. O xidation of fatty acids to supply energy for other Cleansing Function body functions 2. S ynthesis of large quantities of cholesterol, phospho- Blood flowing through the intestinal capillaries picks up lipids, and most lipoproteins many bacteria from the intestines. Indeed, a sample of 3. S ynthesis of fat from proteins and carbohydrates blood taken from the portal veins before it enters the liver To derive energy from neutral fats, the fat is first split into almost always grows colon bacilli when cultured, whereas glycerol and fatty acids. The fatty acids are then split by beta- growth of colon bacilli from blood in the systemic circula- oxidation into two-c arbon acetyl radicals that form acetyl tion is extremely rare. coenzyme A (acetyl-C oA). Acetyl-C oA can enter the citric Special high- speed motion pictures of the action of acid cycle and be oxidized to liberate large amounts of ener- Kupffer cells, the large phagocytic macrophages that line gy. Beta-o xidation can take place in all cells of the body, but the hepatic venous sinuses, have demonstrated that these it occurs especially rapidly in the hepatic cells. The liver can- cells efficiently cleanse blood as it passes through the si- not use all the acetyl-C oA that is formed; instead, it is con- nuses; when a bacterium comes into momentary contact verted by the condensation of two molecules of acetyl-C oA with a Kupffer cell, in less than 0.01 second the bacterium into acetoacetic acid, a highly soluble acid that passes from passes inward through the wall of the Kupffer cell to be- the hepatic cells into the extracellular fluid and is then trans- come permanently lodged therein until it is digested. Prob- ported
