Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


through the wall of the Kupffer cell to be- the hepatic cells into the extracellular fluid and is then trans- come permanently lodged therein until it is digested. Prob- ported throughout the body to be absorbed by other tissues. ably less than 1% of the bacteria entering the portal blood These tissues reconvert the acetoacetic acid into acetyl-C oA from the intestines succeeds in passing through the liver and then oxidize it in the usual manner. Thus, the liver is into the systemic circulation. responsible for a major part of the metabolism of fats. Metabolic Functions of the Liver About 80% of the cholesterol synthesized in the liver is converted into bile salts, which are secreted into the bile; The liver is a large, chemically reactant pool of cells that the remainder is transported in the lipoproteins and car- have a high rate of metabolism. These cells share substrates ried by the blood to the tissue cells of the body. Phospho- and energy from one metabolic system to another, process lipids are likewise synthesized in the liver and transported and synthesize multiple substances that are transported to principally in the lipoproteins. Both cholesterol and phos- other areas of the body, and perform myriad other meta- pholipids are used by the cells to form membranes, intra- bolic functions. For these reasons, a major share of the en- cellular structures, and multiple chemical substances that tire discipline of biochemistry is devoted to the metabolic are important to cellular function. reactions in the liver. In this chapter, we summarize the Almost all the fat synthesis in the body from carbohy- major metabolic functions that are especially important in drates and proteins also occurs in the liver. After fat is syn- understanding the integrated physiology of the body. thesized in the liver, it is transported in the lipoproteins to Carbohydrate Metabolism the adipose tissue to be stored. In carbohydrate metabolism, the liver performs the follow- Protein Metabolism ing functions, as summarized from Chapter 68: The body cannot dispense with the liver’s contribution to pro- 1. Storage of large amounts of glycogen tein metabolism for more than a few days without death ensu- 2. Conversion of galactose and fructose to glucose ing. The most important functions of the liver in protein me- 3. Gluconeogenesis tabolism, as summarized from Chapter 70, are the following: 4. F ormation of many chemical compounds from in- 1. Deamination of
