Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


functions of the liver in protein me- 3. Gluconeogenesis tabolism, as summarized from Chapter 70, are the following: 4. F ormation of many chemical compounds from in- 1. Deamination of amino acids termediate products of carbohydrate metabolism 2. Formation of urea for removal of ammonia from the The liver is especially important for maintaining a nor- body fluids mal blood glucose concentration. Storage of glycogen al- 3. Formation of plasma proteins lows the liver to remove excess glucose from the blood, 4. Interconversions of the various amino acids and store it, and then return it to the blood when the blood glu- synthesis of other compounds from amino acids cose concentration begins to fall too low, which is called the Deamination of amino acids is required before they can glucose buffer function of the liver. In a person with poor liv- be used for energy or converted into carbohydrates or fats. er function, blood glucose concentration after a meal rich A small amount of deamination can occur in the other tis- in carbohydrates may rise two to three times as much as in sues of the body, especially in the kidneys, but it is much less a person with normal liver function. important than the deamination of amino acids by the liver. Gluconeogenesis in the liver is also important in main- Formation of urea by the liver removes ammonia from taining a normal blood glucose concentration because glu- the body fluids. Large amounts of ammonia are formed by coneogenesis occurs to a significant extent only when the the deamination process, and additional amounts are con- glucose concentration falls below normal. Large amounts tinually formed in the gut by bacteria and then absorbed of amino acids and glycerol from triglycerides are then 873 UNIT XIII Unit XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation into the blood. Therefore, if the liver does not form urea, coagulation process include fibrinogen, prothrombin, ac- the plasma ammonia concentration rises rapidly and re- celerator globulin, factor VII, and several other important sults in hepatic coma and death. Indeed, even greatly de- factors. Vitamin K is required by the metabolic processes creased blood flow through the liver—as occurs occasion- of the liver for the formation of several of these substances, ally when a shunt develops between the portal vein and the especially prothrombin and factors VII, IX, and X. In the vena cava—can cause excessive ammonia in the blood,
