Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


substances, ally when a shunt develops between the portal vein and the especially prothrombin and factors VII, IX, and X. In the vena cava—can cause excessive ammonia in the blood, an absence of vitamin K, the concentrations of all these sub- extremely toxic condition. stances decrease markedly and almost prevent blood co- Essentially all the plasma proteins, with the exception agulation. of part of the gamma globulins, are formed by the hepatic The Liver Removes or Excretes Drugs, Hormones, and cells, accounting for about 90% of all the plasma proteins. Other Substances. The liver is well known for its ability to The remaining gamma globulins are the antibodies formed detoxify or excrete many drugs into the bile, including sul- mainly by plasma cells in the lymph tissue of the body. The fonamides, penicillin, ampicillin, and erythromycin. liver can form plasma proteins at a maximum rate of 15 Several of the hormones secreted by the endocrine to 50 g/day. Therefore, even if as much as half the plasma glands are also either chemically altered or excreted by the proteins are lost from the body, they can be replenished in liver, including thyroxine and essentially all the steroid hor- 1 or 2 weeks. mones, such as estrogen, cortisol, and aldosterone. Liver Plasma protein depletion causes rapid mitosis of the he- damage can lead to excess accumulation of one or more patic cells and growth of the liver to a larger size; these ef- of these hormones in the body fluids and therefore cause fects are coupled with rapid output of plasma proteins until overactivity of the hormonal systems. the plasma concentration returns to normal. With chronic Finally, one of the major routes for excreting calcium liver disease (e.g., cirrhosis), plasma proteins, such as albu- from the body is secretion by the liver into the bile, which min, may fall to very low levels, causing generalized edema then passes into the gut and is lost in the feces. and ascites, as explained in Chapter 30. Measurement of Bilirubin in the Bile as a Clinical Among the most important functions of the liver is its Diagnostic Tool ability to synthesize certain amino acids and other impor- tant chemical compounds from amino acids. For example, Formation of bile by the liver and the function of bile salts the so- called nonessential amino acids can all be synthe- in the digestive and absorptive processes of the
