Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Formation of bile by the liver and the function of bile salts the so- called nonessential amino acids can all be synthe- in the digestive and absorptive processes of the intestinal sized in the liver. To perform this function, a keto acid hav- tract are discussed in Chapters 65 and 66. In addition, many ing the same chemical composition (except at the keto oxy- substances are excreted in the bile and then eliminated in gen) as that of the amino acid to be formed is synthesized. the feces. One of these substances is the greenish- yellow An amino radical is then transferred through several stages pigment bilirubin, which is a major end product of hemo- of transamination from an available amino acid to the keto globin degradation, as pointed out in Chapter 33. However, acid to take the place of the keto oxygen. bilirubin also provides an exceedingly valuable tool for di- Other Metabolic Functions of the Liver agnosing both hemolytic blood diseases and various types of liver diseases. Therefore, while referring to Figure 71- 2, let The Liver Is a Storage Site for Vitamins. The liver has us explain this. a particular propensity for storing vitamins and has long Briefly, when the red blood cells have lived out their life been known as an excellent source of certain vitamins in span (on average, 120 days) and have become too fragile the treatment of patients. The vitamin stored in greatest to exist in the circulatory system, their cell membranes quantity in the liver is vitamin A, but large quantities of vi- rupture, and the released hemoglobin is phagocytized by tamin D and vitamin B are normally stored there as well. 12 tissue macrophages (also called the reticuloendothelial sys- Sufficient quantities of vitamin A can be stored to prevent tem) throughout the body. The hemoglobin is first split into vitamin A deficiency for as long as 10 months. Sufficient globin and heme, and the heme ring is opened to give (1) quantities of vitamin D can be stored to prevent deficiency free iron, which is transported in the blood by transferrin, for 3 to 4 months, and enough vitamin B can be stored to 12 and (2) a straight chain of four pyrrole nuclei, which is the last for at least 1 year and perhaps for several years. substrate from which bilirubin will eventually be formed. The Liver Stores Iron as
