Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


four pyrrole nuclei, which is the last for at least 1 year and perhaps for several years. substrate from which bilirubin will eventually be formed. The Liver Stores Iron as Ferritin. Except for the iron in The first substance formed is biliverdin, but this substance the hemoglobin of the blood, by far the greatest proportion is rapidly reduced to free bilirubin, also called unconjugated of iron in the body is stored in the liver in the form of fer- bilirubin, which is gradually released from the macrophag- ritin. The hepatic cells contain large amounts of a protein es into the plasma. This form of bilirubin immediately called apoferritin, which is capable of combining revers- combines strongly with plasma albumin and is transported ibly with iron. Therefore, when iron is available in the body in this combination throughout the blood and interstitial fluids in extra quantities, it combines with apoferritin to fluids. form ferritin and is stored in this form in the hepatic cells Within hours, the unconjugated bilirubin is absorbed until needed elsewhere. When the iron in the circulating through the hepatic cell membrane. In passing to the in- body fluids reaches a low level, the ferritin releases the iron. side of the liver cells, it is released from the plasma albumin Thus, the apoferritin-f erritin system of the liver acts as a and soon thereafter conjugated about 80% with glucuronic blood iron buffer, as well as an iron storage medium. Other acid to form bilirubin glucuronide, about 10% with sulfate functions of the liver in relation to iron metabolism and red to form bilirubin sulfate, and about 10% with a multitude of blood cell formation are considered in Chapter 33. other substances. In these forms, the bilirubin is excreted The Liver Forms Substances Used in Blood Coagula- from the hepatocytes by an active transport process into tion. Substances formed in the liver that are used in the the bile canaliculi and then into the intestines. 874 Chapter 71 The Liver Plasma Fragile red blood cells Reticuloendothelial system Heme Heme oxygenase Biliverdin Unconjugated bilirubin Liver Urobilinogen Liver Kidneys Absorbed Conjugated bilirubin Urobilinogen Bacterial Oxidation action Urobilin Urobilinogen Stercobilinogen Oxidation Stercobilin Intestinal contents Urine Figure 71- 2. Bilirubin formation and excretion. Formation and Fate of Urobilinogen. Once in the intes- damage to the liver cells so that even the usual amounts of tine, about half of the “conjugated” bilirubin is converted
