Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Formation and Fate of Urobilinogen. Once in the intes- damage to the liver cells so that even the usual amounts of tine, about half of the “conjugated” bilirubin is converted by bilirubin cannot be excreted into the gastrointestinal tract. bacterial action into urobilinogen, which is highly soluble. These two types of jaundice are called, respectively, hemo- Some of the urobilinogen is reabsorbed through the intesti- lytic jaundice and obstructive jaundice. nal mucosa back into the blood, and most is re- excreted by Hemolytic Jaundice Is Caused by Hemolysis of Red the liver back into the gut, but about 5% is excreted by the Blood Cells. In hemolytic jaundice, the excretory function of kidneys into the urine. After exposure to air in the urine, the liver is not impaired, but red blood cells are hemolyzed urobilinogen becomes oxidized to urobilin; alternatively, in so rapidly that the hepatic cells simply cannot excrete the bil- the feces, it becomes altered and oxidized to form stercobi- irubin as quickly as it is formed. Therefore, plasma concen- lin. These interrelations of bilirubin and the other bilirubin tration of free bilirubin rises to above-n ormal levels. Like- products are shown in Figure 71- 2. wise, the rate of formation of urobilinogen in the intestine is Jaundice—Excess Bilirubin in the Extracellular Fluid greatly increased, and much of this urobilinogen is absorbed into the blood and later excreted in the urine. Jaundice refers to a yellowish tint to the body tissues, including Obstructive Jaundice Is Caused by Obstruction of Bile a yellowness of the skin and deep tissues. The usual cause of Ducts or Liver Disease. In obstructive jaundice that is jaundice is large quantities of bilirubin in the extracellular flu- caused either by obstruction of the bile ducts (which most ids—either unconjugated or conjugated bilirubin. The normal often occurs when a gallstone or cancer blocks the com- plasma concentration of bilirubin, which is almost entirely the mon bile duct) or by damage to the hepatic cells (which oc- unconjugated form, averages 0.5 mg/dl of plasma. In certain curs in hepatitis), the rate of bilirubin formation is normal, abnormal conditions, this amount can rise to as high as 40 mg/ but the bilirubin formed cannot pass from the blood into dl, and much of it can become the conjugated type. The skin the intestines. The unconjugated bilirubin still enters the usually begins to appear jaundiced when the concentration
