Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


blood into dl, and much of it can become the conjugated type. The skin the intestines. The unconjugated bilirubin still enters the usually begins to appear jaundiced when the concentration liver cells and becomes conjugated in the usual way. This rises to about three times normal—that is, above 1.5 mg/dl. conjugated bilirubin is then returned to the blood, probably The common causes of jaundice are (1) increased de- by rupture of the congested bile canaliculi and direct emp- struction of red blood cells, with rapid release of bilirubin tying of the bile into the lymph leaving the liver. Thus, most into the blood, and (2) obstruction of the bile ducts or 875 UNIT XIII Unit XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation of the bilirubin in the plasma becomes the conjugated type Boyer JL: Bile formation and secretion. Compr Physiol 3:1035, 2013. Boyle M, Masson S, Anstee QM: The bidirectional impacts of alcohol rather than the unconjugated type in obstructive jaundice. Diagnostic Differences Between Hemolytic and Ob- consumption and the metabolic syndrome: cofactors for progres- sive fatty liver disease. J Hepatol 68:251, 2018. structive Jaundice. Chemical laboratory tests can be used Cordero- Espinoza L, Huch M: The balancing act of the liver: tissue to differentiate between unconjugated and conjugated bili- regeneration versus fibrosis. J Clin Invest 128:85, 2018. rubin in the plasma. In hemolytic jaundice, almost all the Diehl AM, Day C: Cause, pathogenesis, and treatment of nonalco- bilirubin is in the “unconjugated” form; in obstructive jaun- holic steatohepatitis. N Engl J Med 377:2063, 2017. dice, it is mainly in the “conjugated” form. A test called the Dixon LJ, Barnes M, Tang H, et al: Kupffer cells in the liver. Compr van den Bergh reaction can be used to differentiate between Physiol 3:785, 2013. the two. Fabris L, Fiorotto R, Spirli C et al: Pathobiology of inherited biliary diseases: a roadmap to understand acquired liver diseases. Nat Rev When total obstruction of bile flow occurs, no bilirubin Gastroenterol Hepatol 16:497, 2019. can reach the intestines to be converted into urobilinogen Gilgenkrantz H, Collin de l’Hortet A: Understanding liver regen- by bacteria. Therefore, no urobilinogen is reabsorbed into eration: from mechanisms to regenerative medicine. Am J Pathol the blood, and none can be excreted by the kidneys into 188:1316, 2018. the urine. Consequently, in total obstructive jaundice, tests Gracia- Sancho J, Marrone G, Fernández-I glesias A: Hepatic microcir- for urobilinogen in the urine
