Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


current concepts and future challenges. Nat Rev 15:555, 2018. Gastroenterol Hepatol 16:411, 2019. Sørensen KK, Simon-S antamaria J, McCuskey RS, Smedsrød B: Liver Bajaj JS: Alcohol, liver disease and the gut microbiota. Nat Rev Gas- sinusoidal endothelial cells. Compr Physiol 5:1751, 2015. troenterol Hepatol 16:235, 2019. Tripodi A, Mannucci PM: The coagulopathy of chronic liver disease. N Bernal W, Wendon J: Acute liver failure. N Engl J Med 369:2525, 2013. Engl J Med 365:147, 2011. 876 CHAPTER 7 2 Dietary Balances; Regulation of Feeding; Obesity and Starvation; Vitamins and Minerals ENERGY INTAKE AND OUTPUT Although considerable variation exists among different in- BALANCED UNDER STEADY- STATE dividuals, and even in the same person from day to day, CONDITIONS the usual diet of Americans provides about 15% of the total energy intake from protein, 40% from fat, and 45% from Proteins, carbohydrates, and fats in the diet provide carbohydrate. In most non- Western countries, the quantity energy for various body functions or for storage and of energy derived from carbohydrates far exceeds that de- later use. Stability of body weight and composition over rived from proteins and fats. Indeed, in some parts of the long periods requires that a person’s energy intake and world where meat is scarce, the energy received from fats and proteins combined may be no greater than 15% to 20%. energy expenditure be balanced. When a person is over- Table 72- 1 lists the compositions of selected foods, fed, and energy intake persistently exceeds expenditure, especially demonstrating the high proportions of fat and most of the excess energy is stored as fat, and body weight protein in meat products and the high proportion of carbo- increases; conversely, loss of body mass and starvation hydrate in most vegetable and grain products. Fat is decep- occur when energy intake is insufficient to meet the tive in the diet because it usually exists as nearly 100% fat, body’s metabolic needs. whereas proteins and carbohydrates are mixed in watery Because different foods contain different proportions media, so that each of these normally represents less than of proteins, carbohydrates, fats, minerals, and vitamins, 25% of the total weight. Therefore, the fat of one pat of but- appropriate balances must also be maintained among ter mixed with an entire helping of potato sometimes con- these constituents so that all of the body’s metabolic sys- tains as much energy as the potato itself. The Average
