Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ter mixed with an entire helping of potato sometimes con- these constituents so that all of the body’s metabolic sys- tains as much energy as the potato itself. The Average Daily Requirement for Protein Is 30 to tems can be supplied with the requisite materials. This chapter discusses the mechanisms by which food intake is 50 Grams. Twenty to 30 grams of the body proteins are degraded daily and used to produce other body chemicals. regulated in accordance with the body’s metabolic needs Therefore, all cells must continue to form new proteins to and some of the problems of maintaining balance among take the place of those that are being destroyed, and a sup- the different types of foods. ply of protein is necessary in the diet for this purpose. An average person can maintain normal stores of protein if the Dietary Balances daily intake is greater than 30 to 50 grams. Energy Available in Foods Some proteins have inadequate quantities of certain es- sential amino acids and therefore cannot be used to replace The energy liberated from each gram of carbohydrate as it the degraded proteins. Such proteins are called partial pro- is oxidized to carbon dioxide and water is 4.1 Calories (1 teins, and when they are present in large quantities in the Calorie equals 1 kilocalorie), and that liberated from fat is diet, the daily protein requirement is much greater than 9.3 Calories. The energy liberated from metabolism of the normal. In general, proteins derived from animal foodstuffs average dietary protein as each gram is oxidized to carbon are more complete than are proteins derived from vegeta- dioxide, water, and urea is 4.35 Calories. Also, these sub- ble and grain sources. For example, the protein of corn has stances vary in the average percentages that are absorbed inadequate amounts of tryptophan and lysine, two of the from the gastrointestinal tract: about 98% of carbohydrate, essential amino acids. Therefore, individuals who consume 95% of fat, and 92% of protein. Therefore, the average cornmeal as their principal source of protein sometimes physiologically available energy in each gram of these three develop the protein- deficiency syndrome called kwashior- foodstuffs is as follows: kor, which consists of failure to grow, lethargy, depressed Calories mentality, and edema caused by low plasma protein con- centration. On the other hand, food legumes, such as Carbohydrate 4 chick peas and beans, provide a relatively rich
