Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


protein sparers. Con- carbon dioxide molecules are formed for each 100 mole- versely, in the state of starvation, after the carbohydrates cules of oxygen consumed. The respiratory quotient for the and fats have been depleted, the body’s protein stores are metabolism of fat therefore averages 0.70. When proteins consumed rapidly for energy, sometimes at rates approach- are oxidized by the cells, the average respiratory quotient ing several hundred grams per day rather than the normal is 0.80. The reason that the respiratory quotients for fats daily rate of 30 to 50 grams. and proteins are lower than those for carbohydrates is that a portion of the oxygen metabolized with these foods is re- Methods for Determining Metabolic Utilization of quired to combine with the excess hydrogen atoms present Carbohydrates, Fats, and Proteins in their molecules, so less carbon dioxide is formed in rela- “Respiratory Quotient,” the Ratio of Carbon Dioxide tion to the oxygen used. Production to Oxygen Utilization, Can Be Used to Esti- Now let us see how one can use the respiratory quotient mate Fat and Carbohydrate Utilization. When carbohy- to determine the relative utilization of different foods by 878 Chapter 72 Dietary Balances; Regulation of Feeding; Obesity and Starvation; Vitamins and Minerals the body. First, recall from Chapter 40 that the output of organs and tissues of the body. Excess energy intake is carbon dioxide by the lungs divided by the uptake of oxygen stored mainly as fat, whereas a deficit of energy intake during the same period is called the respiratory exchange causes loss of total body mass until energy expenditure ratio. During a period of 1 hour or more, the respiratory ex- eventually equals energy intake or death occurs. change ratio exactly equals the average respiratory quotient Although there is considerable variability in the amount of the metabolic reactions throughout the body. If a person of energy storage (i.e., fat mass) in different individuals, has a respiratory quotient of 1.0, he or she is metabolizing maintenance of an adequate energy supply is necessary for carbohydrates almost exclusively, because the respiratory survival. Therefore, the body is endowed with powerful quotients for both fat and protein metabolism are consider- ably less than 1.0. Likewise, when the respiratory quotient physiological control systems that help maintain adequate is about 0.70, the body is metabolizing mostly fats, to the energy intake. Deficits of energy stores, for example, rap- exclusion of
