Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


quotient physiological control systems that help maintain adequate is about 0.70, the body is metabolizing mostly fats, to the energy intake. Deficits of energy stores, for example, rap- exclusion of carbohydrates and proteins. And, finally, if we idly activate multiple mechanisms that cause hunger and ignore the normally small amount of protein metabolism, drive a person to seek food. In athletes and laborers, energy respiratory quotients between 0.70 and 1.0 describe the ap- expenditure for the high level of muscle activity may be as proximate ratios of carbohydrate to fat metabolism. To be high as 10,000 Calories per day, compared with only about more exact, one can first determine the protein utilization 2000 Calories per day for sedentary individuals. Thus, a by measuring nitrogen excretion, as discussed in the next large energy expenditure associated with physical work section. Then, using the appropriate mathematical formula, usually stimulates equally large increases in caloric intake. one can calculate the utilization of the three foodstuffs. What are the physiological mechanisms that sense Some of the important findings from studies of respira- changes in energy balance and influence the quest for tory quotients are the following: 1. Immediately after a mixed meal containing carbohy- food? Maintenance of adequate energy supply in the body drates as well as protein and fat, almost all the food that is so critical that multiple short- term and long- term con- is metabolized is carbohydrates, so the respiratory quo- trol systems exist that regulate not only food intake but tient at that time approaches 1.0. also energy expenditure and energy stores. In the next few 2. About 8 to 10 hours after a meal, the body has already sections we describe some of these control systems and used up most of its readily available carbohydrates, and their operation in physiological conditions, as well as in the respiratory quotient approaches that for fat metabo- the states of obesity and starvation. lism, about 0.70. 3. In untreated diabetes mellitus, little carbohydrate can NEURAL CENTERS REGULATE FOOD be used by the body’s cells under any conditions because INTAKE insulin is required for this utilization. Therefore, when diabetes is severe, most of the time the respiratory quo- The sensation of hunger is associated with a craving for tient remains near that for fat metabolism, which is 0.70. food and several other physiological effects, such as rhyth- Nitrogen Excretion Can Be Used to Assess Protein
