Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a craving for tient remains near that for fat metabolism, which is 0.70. food and several other physiological effects, such as rhyth- Nitrogen Excretion Can Be Used to Assess Protein Me- mic contractions of the stomach and restlessness, which tabolism. The average protein contains about 16% nitro- cause the person to seek food. A person’s appetite is a desire gen. During metabolism of protein, about 90% of this nitro- for food, often of a particular type, and is useful in helping gen is excreted in the urine in the form of urea, uric acid, to choose the quality of the food to be eaten. If the quest creatinine, and other nitrogen products. The remaining for food is successful, the feeling of satiety occurs. Each of 10% is excreted in the feces. Therefore, the rate of protein these feelings is influenced by environmental and cultural breakdown in the body can be estimated by measuring the factors, as well as by physiological controls that influence amount of nitrogen in the urine, then adding 10% for the nitrogen excreted in the feces, and multiplying by 6.25 (i.e., specific centers of the brain, especially the hypothalamus. 100/16) to estimate the total amount of protein metabolism The Hypothalamus Contains Hunger and Satiety in grams per day. Thus, excretion of 8 grams of nitrogen in Centers. Several neuronal centers of the hypothalamus the urine each day means that about 55 grams of protein participate in the control of food intake. The lateral nuclei breakdown has occurred. If the daily intake of protein is of the hypothalamus serve as a feeding center, and stim- less than the daily breakdown of protein, the person is said to have a negative nitrogen balance, which means that his or ulation of this area causes an animal to eat voraciously her body stores of protein are decreasing daily. (hyperphagia). Conversely, destruction of the lateral hy- pothalamus causes lack of desire for food and progressive inanition, a condition characterized by marked weight REGULATION OF FOOD INTAKE AND loss, muscle weakness, and decreased metabolism. The ENERGY STORAGE lateral hypothalamic feeding center operates by exciting Stability of the body’s total mass and composition over the motor drives to search for food. long periods requires that energy intake match energy The ventromedial nuclei of the hypothalamus serve as a expenditure. As discussed in Chapter 73, only about 27% major satiety center. This center is believed
