Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that energy intake match energy The ventromedial nuclei of the hypothalamus serve as a expenditure. As discussed in Chapter 73, only about 27% major satiety center. This center is believed to give a sense of the energy ingested normally reaches the functional of nutritional satisfaction that inhibits the feeding center. systems of the cells, and much of this energy is eventually Electrical stimulation of this region can cause complete converted to heat, which is generated as a result of protein satiety, and even in the presence of highly appetizing metabolism, muscle activity, and activities of the various food, the animal refuses to eat (aphagia). Conversely, 879 UNIT XIII Unit XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation destruction of the ventromedial nuclei causes voracious The POMC neurons release α- MSH, which then acts and continued eating until the animal becomes extremely on melanocortin receptors found especially in neurons obese, sometimes weighing as much as four times normal. of the paraventricular nuclei. Although at least five sub- The paraventricular, dorsomedial, and arcuate nuclei types of melanocortin receptors (MCR) exist, MCR- 3 and of the hypothalamus also play a major role in regulating MCR- 4 are especially important in regulating food intake food intake. For example, lesions of the paraventricular and energy balance. Activation of these receptors reduces nuclei often cause excessive eating, whereas lesions of food intake while increasing energy expenditure. Con- the dorsomedial nuclei usually depress eating behavior. versely, inhibition of MCR- 3 and MCR- 4 greatly increases As discussed later, the arcuate nuclei are the sites in the food intake and decreases energy expenditure. The effect hypothalamus where multiple hormones released from of MCR-4 activation to increase energy expenditure the gastrointestinal tract and adipose tissue converge to appears to be mediated, at least in part, by activation of regulate food intake, as well as energy expenditure. neuronal pathways that project from the paraventricu- Much chemical cross talk occurs among the neurons in lar nuclei to the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) and the hypothalamus, and together, these centers coordinate the stimulate sympathetic nervous system activity. However, processes that control eating behavior and the perception of POMC neurons and MCR-4 are also found in brainstem satiety. These hypothalamic nuclei also influence secretion neurons, including the NTS, where they also regulate of several hormones that are important in regulating energy food intake and energy expenditure. balance and metabolism, including those from the thyroid and adrenal
