Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the NTS, where they also regulate of several hormones that are important in regulating energy food intake and energy expenditure. balance and metabolism, including those from the thyroid and adrenal glands, as well as the pancreatic islet cells. The hypothalamus receives (1) neural signals from the gastrointestinal tract that provide sensory information about stomach filling; (2) chemical signals from nutrients in the blood (glucose, amino acids, and fatty acids) that Hypothalamus signify satiety; (3) signals from gastrointestinal hormones; (4) signals from hormones released by adipose tissue; and (5) signals from the cerebral cortex (sight, smell, and taste) that influence feeding behavior. Some of these inputs to the hypothalamus are shown in Figure 72- 1. The hypothalamic feeding and satiety centers have a high density of receptors for neurotransmitters and hormones that influence feeding behavior. A few of the many substances that have been shown to alter appetite and feeding behavior in experimental studies are listed in Table 72- 2 and are gen- Vagus nerve erally categorized as (1) orexigenic substances that stimulate feeding or (2) anorexigenic substances that inhibit feeding. Neurons and Neurotransmitters in the Hypothalamus That Stimulate or Inhibit Feeding. Two distinct types of neurons in the arcuate nuclei of the hypothal- amus are especially important as controllers of both appetite and energy expenditure (Figure 72- 2): (1) pro- opiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons that produce α– Stomach Fat melanocyte- stimulating hormone (α- MSH) together with Ghrelin cocaine- and amphetamine- related transcript (CART); Leptin Pancreas and (2) neurons that produce the orexigenic substances Insulin neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti- related protein (AGRP). Activation of the POMC neurons decreases food intake and increases energy expenditure, whereas activation of PYY CCK the NPY-A GRP neurons has the opposite effects, increas- ing food intake and reducing energy expenditure. Con- Large intestine Small intestine siderable cross talk occurs among these neurons and, as Figure 72- 1. Feedback mechanisms for control of food intake. discussed later, POMC/CART and AGRP/NPY neurons Stretch receptors in the stomach activate sensory afferent pathways appear to be the major targets for several hormones that in the vagus nerve and inhibit food intake. Peptide YY (PYY), chol- regulate appetite, including leptin, insulin, cholecystokinin ecystokinin (CCK), and insulin are gastrointestinal hormones that are (CCK), and ghrelin. In fact, the neurons of the arcuate released by the ingestion of food and suppress further feeding. Ghre- nuclei appear to be a site of convergence of
