Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


(CCK), and ghrelin. In fact, the neurons of the arcuate released by the ingestion of food and suppress further feeding. Ghre- nuclei appear to be a site of convergence of many of the lin is released by the stomach, especially during fasting, and stimu- lates appetite. Leptin is a hormone produced in increasing amounts nervous and peripheral signals that regulate energy stores. by fat cells as they increase in size. It inhibits food intake. 880 Chapter 72 Dietary Balances; Regulation of Feeding; Obesity and Starvation; Vitamins and Minerals Table 72- 2 Neurotransmitters and Hormones The hypothalamic–brainstem melanocortin system That Influence Feeding and Satiety Centers in the plays a powerful role in regulating energy stores of the Hypothalamus body, and defective signaling of this pathway is associated Decrease Feeding Increase Feeding with extreme obesity. In fact, mutations of POMC and (Anorexigenic) (Orexigenic) MCR- 4 represent the most common known monogenic α–Melanocyte- stimulating Neuropeptide Y (single- gene) causes of human obesity, and some studies hormone suggest that POMC and MCR- 4 mutations may account Leptin Agouti- related protein for as much as 5% to 6% of early- onset severe obesity in children. In contrast, excessive activation of the melano- Serotonin Melanin- concentrating hormone cortin system reduces appetite. Some studies suggest that this activation may play a role in causing the loss of appe- Norepinephrine Orexins A and B tite for food (anorexia) associated with severe infections, Corticotropin- releasing Endorphins cancer tumors, or uremia. hormone AGRP released from the orexigenic neurons of the Insulin Galanin hypothalamus is a natural antagonist of MCR- 3 and Cholecystokinin Amino acids (glutamate and MCR- 4 and probably increases feeding by inhibiting the γ- aminobutyric acid) effects of α- MSH to stimulate melanocortin receptors Glucagon-l ike peptide Cortisol (see Figure 72- 2). Although the role of AGRP in normal Cocaine- and Ghrelin physiological control of food intake is unclear, excessive amphetamine- formation of AGRP in mice and humans due to gene regulated transcript mutations is associated with increased food intake and Peptide YY Endocannabinoids obesity. NPY is also released from orexigenic neurons of the arcuate nuclei. When energy stores of the body are low, Food intake Neurons Neuron of PVN Y r MCR-4 1 α-MSH To nucleus tractus solitarius • Sympathetic activity Food • Energy expenditure intake Food intake AGRP/ Y r 1 NPY Arcuate MCR-3 POMC/ nucleus Third CART ventricle LepR MCR-3 + α-MSH LepR − +
