Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


solitarius • Sympathetic activity Food • Energy expenditure intake Food intake AGRP/ Y r 1 NPY Arcuate MCR-3 POMC/ nucleus Third CART ventricle LepR MCR-3 + α-MSH LepR − + Insulin, Ghrelin leptin, CCK Figure 72- 2. Control of energy balance by two types of neurons of the arcuate nuclei: (1) pro-o piomelanocortin (POMC) neurons that release α–melanocyte- stimulating hormone (α- MSH) and cocaine- and amphetamine-r egulated transcript (CART), decreasing food intake and increas- ing energy expenditure; and (2) neurons that produce agouti- related protein (AGRP) and neuropeptide Y (NPY), increasing food intake and reducing energy expenditure. α- MSH released by POMC neurons stimulates melanocortin receptors (MCR-3 and MCR- 4) in the paraventricular nuclei (PVN), which then activate neuronal pathways that project to the nucleus tractus solitarius and increase sympathetic activity and energy expenditure. AGRP acts as an antagonist of MCR- 4. Insulin, leptin, and cholecystokinin (CCK) are hormones that inhibit AGRP- NPY neurons and stimulate adjacent POMC- CART neurons, thereby reducing food intake. Ghrelin, a hormone secreted from the stomach, activates AGRP-N PY neurons and stimulates food intake. LepR, Leptin receptor; Y r, neuropeptide Y receptor. (Modified from Barsh GS, Schwartz MW: Genetic 1 1 approaches to studying energy balance: perception and integration. Nat Rev Genet 3:589, 2002.) 881 UNIT XIII Unit XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation orexigenic neurons are activated to release NPY, which are transmitted mainly by way of the vagi to suppress the stimulates appetite. At the same time, firing of the POMC feeding centers, thereby reducing the desire for food and neurons is reduced, thereby decreasing the activity of the providing a negative feedback mechanism to help limit melanocortin pathway and further stimulating appetite. meal size (see Figure 72- 1). Neural Centers That Influence the Mechanical Process Gastrointestinal Hormonal Factors Suppress Feeding. of Feeding. Another aspect of feeding is the mechanical CCK, which is released mainly in response to fat and pro- act of the feeding process. If the brain is sectioned be- teins entering the duodenum, enters the blood and acts as low the hypothalamus but above the mesencephalon, the a hormone to influence several gastrointestinal functions animal can still perform the basic mechanical features of such as gallbladder contraction, gastric emptying, gut the feeding process. It can salivate, lick its lips, chew food, motility, and gastric acid secretion as discussed in Chap- and swallow. Therefore, the actual mechanics of feeding ters 63, 64,
