Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


feeding process. It can salivate, lick its lips, chew food, motility, and gastric acid secretion as discussed in Chap- and swallow. Therefore, the actual mechanics of feeding ters 63, 64, and 65. However, CCK also activates receptors are controlled by centers in the brainstem. The function of on local sensory nerves in the duodenum, sending mes- the other centers in feeding, then, is to control the quan- sages to the brain via the vagus nerve that contribute to tity of food intake and to excite these centers of feeding satiation and meal cessation. The effect of CCK is short- mechanics to activity. lived, and chronic administration of CCK by itself has no Neural centers higher than the hypothalamus also play major effect on body weight. Therefore, CCK functions important roles in the control of feeding, particularly in mainly to prevent overeating during meals but may not the control of appetite. These centers include the amyg- play a major role in the frequency of meals or the total dala and the prefrontal cortex, which are closely coupled energy consumed. with the hypothalamus. Recall from the discussion of the Peptide YY (PYY) is secreted from the entire gastro- sense of smell in Chapter 54 that portions of the amygdala intestinal tract, but especially from the ileum and colon. are a major part of the olfactory nervous system. Destruc- Food intake stimulates release of PYY, with blood concen- tive lesions in the amygdala have demonstrated that some trations rising to peak levels 1 to 2 hours after ingesting of its areas increase feeding, whereas others inhibit feed- a meal. These peak levels of PYY are influenced by the ing. In addition, stimulation of some areas of the amyg- amount and composition of the food, with higher lev- dala elicits the mechanical act of feeding. An important els of PYY observed after meals with a high fat content. effect of destruction of the amygdala on both sides of Although injections of PYY into mice have been shown the brain is a “psychic blindness” in the choice of foods. to decrease food intake for 12 hours or more, the impor- In other words, the animal (and presumably the human tance of this gastrointestinal hormone in regulating appe- being as well) at least partially loses the appetite control tite in humans is still unclear. that determines the type and quality of food it eats. For reasons
