Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


regulating appe- being as well) at least partially loses the appetite control tite in humans is still unclear. that determines the type and quality of food it eats. For reasons that are not entirely understood, the pres- ence of food in the intestines stimulates them to secrete FACTORS THAT REGULATE QUANTITY OF glucagon- like peptide (GLP), which in turn enhances FOOD INTAKE glucose- dependent insulin production and secretion from the pancreas. GLP and insulin both tend to suppress Regulation of the quantity of food intake can be divided appetite. Thus, eating a meal stimulates the release of sev- into short- term regulation, which is concerned primarily eral gastrointestinal hormones that may induce satiety with preventing overeating at each meal, and long- term and limit further intake of food (see Figure 72- 1). regulation, which is concerned primarily with mainte- nance of normal quantities of energy stores in the body. Ghrelin, a Gastrointestinal Hormone, Increases F eeding. Short- Term Regulation of Food Intake Ghrelin is a hormone released mainly by the oxyntic cells of the stomach but also, to much less of an extent, by the in- When a person is driven by hunger to eat voraciously testine. Blood levels of ghrelin rise during fasting, peak just and rapidly, what turns off the desire to eat when he or before eating, and then fall rapidly after a meal, suggesting a she has eaten enough? There has not been enough time possible role in stimulating feeding. Also, administration of for changes in the body’s energy stores to occur, and it ghrelin increases food intake in experimental animals, fur- takes hours for enough nutritional factors to be absorbed ther supporting the possibility that it may be an orexigenic into the blood to cause the necessary inhibition of eat- hormone. ing. Yet, it is important that the person not overeat and Oral Receptors Meter Food Intake. When an animal that he or she eat an amount of food that approximates with an esophageal fistula is fed large quantities of food, nutritional needs. Several types of rapid feedback signals even though this food is immediately lost to the exterior, are important for these purposes, as described in the fol- the degree of hunger is decreased after a reasonable quan- lowing sections. tity of food has passed through the mouth. This effect oc- Gastrointestinal Filling Inhibits Feeding. When the curs despite the fact that the gastrointestinal
