Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


after a reasonable quan- lowing sections. tity of food has passed through the mouth. This effect oc- Gastrointestinal Filling Inhibits Feeding. When the curs despite the fact that the gastrointestinal tract does gastrointestinal tract becomes distended, especially the not become the least bit filled. Therefore, various “oral stomach and the duodenum, stretch inhibitory signals factors” related to feeding, such as chewing, salivation, 882 Chapter 72 Dietary Balances; Regulation of Feeding; Obesity and Starvation; Vitamins and Minerals swallowing, and tasting, have been postulated to “meter” Feedback Signals From Adipose Tissue Regulate Food the food as it passes through the mouth, and after a cer- Intake. Most of the stored energy in the body consists of tain amount has passed, the hypothalamic feeding center fat, the amount of which can vary considerably in differ- becomes inhibited. The inhibition caused by this meter- ent persons. What regulates this energy reserve, and why ing mechanism, however, is considerably less intense is there so much variability among individuals? and of shorter duration—usually lasting for only 20 to 40 Studies in humans and in experimental animals indi- minutes—than is the inhibition caused by gastrointestinal cate that the hypothalamus senses energy storage through filling. the actions of leptin, a peptide hormone released from adipocytes. When the amount of adipose tissue increases Intermediate- and Long- Term Regulation (signaling excess energy storage), the adipocytes produce of Food Intake increased amounts of leptin, which is released into the An animal that has been starved for a long time and is blood. Leptin then circulates to the brain, where it moves then presented with unlimited food eats a far greater across the blood- brain barrier by facilitated diffusion and quantity than does an animal that has been on a regu- occupies leptin receptors at multiple sites in the hypo- lar diet. Conversely, an animal that has been force- fed for thalamus, especially the POMC and AGRP/NPY neurons several weeks eats very little when allowed to eat accord- of the arcuate nuclei and neurons of the paraventricu- ing to its own desires. Thus, the biological feeding con- lar nuclei, as well as neurons in other areas of the brain trol mechanisms of the body are geared to the nutritional including the brainstem. status of the body although multiple behavioral, social Stimulation of leptin receptors in these central ner- and environmental factors also influence food intake in vous system nuclei initiates multiple actions
