Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Therefore, some dial and paraventricular nuclei of the hypothalamus, and physiologists believe that obesity may be associated with (2) the same increase in blood glucose level simultaneously leptin resistance; that is, leptin receptors or postreceptor decreases the firing of glucosensitive neurons in the hun- signaling pathways normally activated by leptin may be ger center of the lateral hypothalamus. In addition, some resistant to activation by leptin in obese people, who con- amino acids and lipid substances affect the rates of firing tinue to overeat despite having very high levels of leptin. of these same neurons or other closely associated neurons. Another explanation for the failure of leptin to prevent Temperature Regulation and Food Intake. When an increasing adiposity in obese individuals is that there are animal is exposed to cold, it tends to increase feeding; many redundant systems that control feeding behavior, as when it is exposed to heat, it tends to decrease its caloric well as social and cultural factors that can cause contin- intake. This phenomenon is caused by interaction within ued excess food intake even in the presence of high levels the hypothalamus between the temperature- regulating of leptin. system (see Chapter 74) and the food intake–regulating Summary of Long- Term Regulation. Even though our system. This is important because increased food intake information on the different feedback factors in long- in a cold animal (1) increases its metabolic rate and (2) term feeding regulation is imprecise, we can make the provides increased fat for insulation, both of which tend following general statement: When the energy stores of to protect against the cold. 883 UNIT XIII Unit XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation the body fall below normal, the feeding centers of the hy- a waist/hip ratio of greater than 0.9 in men and 0.85 in pothalamus and other areas of the brain become highly women is often considered to indicate abdominal obesity active, and the person exhibits increased hunger, as well in adults. The prevalence of obesity in children and adults in the as the behavior of searching for food. Conversely, when United States and in many other industrialized countries is the energy stores (mainly the fat stores) are already abun- rapidly increasing, rising by more than 30% during the past dant, the person usually loses the sensation of hunger and decade. Approximately 70% of adults aged 20 and over in develops a state of satiety. Although
