Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


30% during the past dant, the person usually loses the sensation of hunger and decade. Approximately 70% of adults aged 20 and over in develops a state of satiety. Although the precise feedback the United States are overweight or obese, and more than systems that regulate food intake and energy expenditure 35% of those adults are obese. are not fully understood, rapid advances have been made Obesity Results From Greater Intake Than Expendi- in this field of research in recent years, with the discovery ture of Energy of many new orexigenic and anorexigenic factors. When greater quantities of energy (in the form of food) en- Importance of Having Both Long- and ter the body than are expended, the body weight increases, Short- Term Regulatory Systems for and most of the excess energy is stored as fat. Therefore, Feeding excessive adiposity (obesity) is caused by energy intake in excess of energy output. For each 9.3 calories of excess en- The long- term regulatory system for feeding, which ergy that remains in the body, approximately 1 gram of fat includes all the nutritional energy feedback mechanisms, is stored. helps maintain constant stores of nutrients in the tissues, Fat is stored mainly in adipocytes in subcutaneous tis- preventing them from becoming too low or too high. The sue and in the intraperitoneal cavity, although the liver short- term regulatory stimuli serve two other purposes. and other tissues of the body often accumulate significant First, they tend to make the person eat smaller quantities amounts of lipids in obese persons. The metabolic process- at each eating session, thus allowing food to pass through es involved in fat storage were discussed in Chapter 69. the gastrointestinal tract at a steadier pace so that its diges- It was previously believed that the number of adipo- tive and absorptive mechanisms can work at optimal rates cytes could increase substantially only during infancy and childhood and that excess energy intake in children led to rather than becoming periodically overburdened. Second, hyperplastic obesity, associated with increased numbers of they help prevent the person from eating amounts at each adipocytes and only small increases in adipocyte size. In meal that would be too much for the metabolic storage contrast, the development of obesity in adults was thought systems once all the food has been absorbed. to increase only adipocyte size, resulting in hypertrophic obesity. However, research studies have shown that
