Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


development of obesity in adults was thought systems once all the food has been absorbed. to increase only adipocyte size, resulting in hypertrophic obesity. However, research studies have shown that new Obesity adipocytes can differentiate from fibroblast- like preadipo- Obesity can be defined as an excess of body fat. A surrogate cytes at any period of life and that the development of obe- marker for body fat content is the body mass index (BMI), sity in adults is accompanied by increased numbers, as well which is calculated as: as increased size, of adipocytes. An extremely obese person may have as many as four times as many adipocytes, each Weight in kilograms BMI= containing twice as much lipid, as a lean person. Height in meters2 Once a person has become obese and a stable weight is In clinical terms, a person with a BMI between 25 and 29.9 obtained, energy intake once again equals energy output. kg/m2 is deemed overweight, and a person with a BMI greater For a person to lose weight, energy intake must be less than than or equal to 30 kg/m2 is considered obese. BMI is not a energy expenditure. direct estimate of adiposity and does not take into account Decreased Physical Activity and Abnormal Feeding the fact that some individuals have a high BMI as a result of a Regulation as Causes of Obesity large muscle mass. A better way to define obesity is to actually The causes of obesity are complex. Although genes play an measure the percentage of total body fat. Obesity is usually important role in programming the powerful physiological defined as 25% or greater total body fat in men and 35% or mechanisms that regulate food intake and energy metabo- greater total body fat in women. Although percentage of body lism, lifestyle and environmental factors may play a major fat can be estimated with various methods, such as measur- role in many obese people. The rapid increase in the preva- ing skin-f old thickness, bioelectrical impedance, or underwa- lence of obesity in the past 20 to 30 years emphasizes the im- ter weighing, these methods are not routinely used in clinical portant role of lifestyle and environmental factors because practice, where BMI is commonly used to assess obesity. genetic changes could not have occurred so rapidly. Still, The adverse impact of obesity on the risk for various genetic factors may predispose many
