Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is commonly used to assess obesity. genetic changes could not have occurred so rapidly. Still, The adverse impact of obesity on the risk for various genetic factors may predispose many people to the environ- disorders such as cirrhosis, hypertension, heart attack, mental influences that are driving the rising prevalence of stroke, and kidney disease appears to be more closely as- obesity in most industrialized and developing countries. sociated with increased visceral (abdominal) adiposity than with increased subcutaneous fat storage, or storage of fat Sedentary Lifestyle Is a Major Cause of Obesity. Regu- in the lower parts of the body such as the hips. Therefore, lar physical activity and physical training are known to in- many clinicians measure waist circumference or sagittal crease muscle mass and decrease body fat mass, whereas abdominal diameter as indicators of abdominal obesity. inadequate physical activity is typically associated with de- In the United States a waist circumference greater than creased muscle mass and increased adiposity. For example, 102 centimeters in men and 88 centimeters in women or studies have shown a close association between sedentary 884 Chapter 72 Dietary Balances; Regulation of Feeding; Obesity and Starvation; Vitamins and Minerals behaviors, such as excessive screen time (e.g., television watching), and obesity. MATERNAL OBESITY Adverse intrauterine About 25% to 30% of the energy used each day by the exposure average person goes into muscular activity, and in a laborer, GERM CELLS as much as 60% to 70% is used in this way. In obese people, DNA methylation increased physical activity often increases energy expendi- Histone modification Adverse impact ture more than food intake, resulting in significant weight MicroRNAs on development, including loss. Even a single episode of strenuous exercise may in- germ cells crease basal energy expenditure for several hours after the physical activity is stopped. Because muscular activity is by far the most important means by which energy is expended in the body, increased physical activity is often an effective Epigenetically means of reducing fat stores. PATERNAL modified Abnormal Feeding Behavior Is an Important Cause of OBESITY germ cells Obesity. Although powerful physiological mechanisms regulate food intake, important environmental, social, and psychological factors also can cause abnormal feeding be- havior, excessive energy intake, and obesity. As discussed previously, the importance of environ- mental factors is evident from the rapid increase in the prevalence of obesity in most industrialized countries, POSTNATAL which has coincided with an abundance
