Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


discussed previously, the importance of environ- mental factors is evident from the rapid increase in the prevalence of obesity in most industrialized countries, POSTNATAL which has coincided with an abundance of high-e nergy ENVIRONMENT foods and sedentary lifestyles. ADULT OFFSPRING FACTORS Psychological and social factors may contribute to obe- Obesity Diet, exercise, sity in some people. For example, people often gain large Metabolic diseases social, familial amounts of weight during or after stressful situations, such Figure 72- 3. Possible interactions of adverse intrauterine environ- as the death of a parent, a severe illness, or even mental ment, epigenetic, and development factors in programming in- depression. It seems that eating can be a means of relieving creased risk for obesity in multiple generations. The intrauterine stress. environment of an obese mother may influence development of Childhood Overnutrition May Contribute to Adult the embryo, including epigenetic effects on germ cells that become Obesity. One factor that may contribute to obesity is the sperm or oocytes. The sperm and oocytes of male and female parents may also be altered by epigenetic changes that occur secondary to prevalent idea that healthy eating habits require three meals obesity, thus predisposing subsequent generations to increased risk a day and that each meal must be filling. Many young chil- for developing obesity. dren are forced into this habit by overly solicitous parents, and the children continue to practice it throughout life. The rate of formation of new fat cells is especially rapid It is likely that many gene variations interact with environ- in the first few years of life, and the greater the rate of fat mental factors to influence the amount and distribution of storage, the greater the number of fat cells. The number of body fat. fat cells in obese children is often as much as three times Parents May Contribute to Obesity in Their Offspring that in normal children. Therefore, it has been suggested Through Epigenetic Mechanisms. Parents who are over- that overnutrition of children—especially in infancy and, weight or obese may also increase the risk for obesity and to a lesser extent, during the later years of childhood—can associated disorders in their offspring through “epigenetic” lead to a lifetime of obesity. In fact, studies have shown that mechanisms that alter gene expression in the absence of approximately 80% of obese children become obese adults. a change in the DNA sequence (Figure 72- 3).
