Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


studies have shown that mechanisms that alter gene expression in the absence of approximately 80% of obese children become obese adults. a change in the DNA sequence (Figure 72- 3). Epigenetic Genetic Factors as a Cause of Obesity. Obesity defi- effects of parental obesity have been proposed to occur nitely runs in families. However, it has been difficult to de- through alterations in DNA methylation, histone modifi- termine the precise role of genetics in contributing to obe- cations, and expression of microRNAs that may influence sity because family members generally share many of the gene expression in the offspring. Based mainly on studies same eating habits and physical activity patterns. Current in experimental animals, it has been suggested that epi- evidence suggests that 20% to 25% of cases of obesity may genetic changes in the parents’ gametes (sperm from the be caused by genetic factors. father and oocytes from the mother) as well as an adverse Genes can contribute to obesity by causing abnormali- intrauterine environment and epigenetic changes in the de- ties of (1) one or more of the pathways that regulate the veloping fetus’ germ cells (embryonic cells that give rise to feeding centers and (2) energy expenditure and fat storage. the gametes) may contribute to obesity in the immediate Three of the monogenic (single- gene) causes of obesity are offspring as well as in subsequent generations. However, (1) mutations of POMC and MCR-4 , the most common additional research is needed to further assess the impact monogenic forms of obesity discovered thus far; (2) con- of germ cell epigenetics in predisposing human beings to genital leptin deficiency caused by mutations of the leptin become obese. gene, which are very rare; and (3) mutations of the leptin Regardless of the precise contribution of genetic, epige- receptor, which are also rare. All these monogenic forms of netic and environmental factors, it is clear that the percent- obesity account for only a very small percentage of obesity. age of children affected by obesity has increased steadily in 885 UNIT XIII Unit XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation many countries, including the United States, where obe- in adiposity. Almost all current guidelines for treatment of sity prevalence in children has more than tripled since the obesity therefore recommend lifestyle modifications that 1970s. include increased physical activity combined with a reduc- Neurogenic Abnormalities as a Cause of Obesity. We tion in caloric intake.
