Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tripled since the obesity therefore recommend lifestyle modifications that 1970s. include increased physical activity combined with a reduc- Neurogenic Abnormalities as a Cause of Obesity. We tion in caloric intake. previously pointed out that lesions in the ventromedial nu- Pharmacological Management of Obesity. Various drugs clei of the hypothalamus cause an animal to eat excessively for decreasing the degree of hunger have been used in obesity and become obese. Progressive obesity often develops in treatment. The most widely used drugs are amphetamines people with hypophysial tumors that encroach on the hy- (or amphetamine derivatives), which directly inhibit the pothalamus, demonstrating that obesity in human beings, feeding centers in the brain. One drug for treating obesity too, can result from damage to the hypothalamus. combines phentermine, a sympathomimetic that reduces Although hypothalamic damage is almost never found food intake and increases energy expenditure, with topira- in obese people, it is possible that the functional organiza- mate, which has been used as an anticonvulsant drug. The tion of the hypothalamic or other neurogenic feeding cent- danger in using sympathomimetic drugs is that they simul- ers in obese individuals is different from that in persons taneously overexcite the sympathetic nervous system and who are not obese. Also, abnormalities of neurotransmit- raise blood pressure. A commonly used sympathomimetic ters or receptor mechanisms may be present in the neural drug, sibutramine, was removed from the United States pathways of the hypothalamus that control feeding. In sup- market in 2010 for obesity treatment because clinical stud- port of this theory, an obese person who has reduced to ies demonstrated that it increased the risk for myocardial normal weight by strict dietary measures usually develops infarction and stroke. Another drug developed for treat- intense hunger that is demonstrably far greater than that of ment of obesity is lorcaserin, which activates serotonin a normal person. Also, diet- induced weight loss in obese receptors in the brain and promotes increased POMC ex- people is associated with substantial “metabolic adapta- pression. However, the FDA requested the withdrawal of tion,” which refers to slowing of metabolic rate and energy lorcaserin from the market in 2020 due to safety concerns. expenditure by greater amounts than predicted for the Bupropion, a dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake in- change in body composition caused by loss of fat and mus- hibitor, stimulates POMC neurons and is used in combi- cle mass. This phenomenon suggests that the
