Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


norepinephrine reuptake in- change in body composition caused by loss of fat and mus- hibitor, stimulates POMC neurons and is used in combi- cle mass. This phenomenon suggests that the “set points” nation with naltrexone, an opioid receptor antagonist, to of an obese person’s feeding and metabolic control systems treat obesity. Synthetic Glucagon- like peptide- 1 (GLP- 1) are at a much higher level of nutrient storage than that of a agonists, a class of drugs used to treat type 2 diabetes mel- nonobese person. litus, also stimulates POMC neurons to cause satiety and Studies in experimental animals also indicate that when modest weight loss. food intake is restricted in obese animals, marked neuro- Another class of medications, the sodium- glucose trans- transmitter changes occur in the hypothalamus that greatly porter 2 (SGLT 2) inhibitors, promote mild weight loss by pre- increase hunger and oppose weight loss. Some of these venting reabsorption of glucose as well as water in the renal changes include increased formation of orexigenic neu- tubules and are also used in treating type 2 diabetes mellitus. rotransmitters such as NPY and decreased formation of Still another group of drugs works by altering lipid ab- anorexigenic substances such as leptin and α- MSH. Stud- sorption by the gut. For example, orlistat, a lipase inhibitor, ies in humans have confirmed that diet- induced weight loss reduces the intestinal digestion of fat, causing a portion of is accompanied by increased levels of hunger- stimulating the ingested fat to be lost in the feces and therefore reduc- hormones (e.g., ghrelin) and decreased levels of hormones ing energy absorption. However, fecal fat loss may cause (e.g., leptin) that reduce hunger. These hormonal changes unpleasant gastrointestinal side effects, as well as loss of persist for at least 1 year after the weight loss, perhaps ex- fat- soluble vitamins in the feces. plaining, in part, why it is so difficult for most people to All of the drugs that are currently approved for long- term achieve sustained weight loss by dieting alone. treatment of obesity produce modest weight loss, usually only 5% to 10%, or less in some cases, and are most effec- Treatment of Obesity tive when used in combination with lifestyle modifications Treatment of obesity depends on decreasing energy input aimed at increased physical activity and a healthier diet. below energy expenditure and creating a sustained nega- Surgical Treatment of Obesity. For
