Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Treatment of obesity depends on decreasing energy input aimed at increased physical activity and a healthier diet. below energy expenditure and creating a sustained nega- Surgical Treatment of Obesity. For morbidly obese pa- tive energy balance until the desired weight loss is achieved. tients with BMIs greater than 40 kg/m2, or for patients with The current National Institutes of Health (NIH) guidelines BMIs greater than 35 kg/m2 and conditions such as hyper- recommend a decrease in caloric intake of 500 Calories tension or type 2 diabetes that predispose them to other (kilocalories) per day for overweight and moderately obese serious diseases, various surgical procedures can be used to persons (BMI >25 but <35 kg/m2) to achieve a weight loss decrease the fat mass of the body or to decrease the amount of approximately 1 pound each week. A more aggressive of food that can be eaten at each meal. energy deficit of 500 to 1000 Calories per day is recom- Gastric bypass surgery involves construction of a small mended for persons with BMIs greater than 35 kg/m2. pouch in the proximal part of the stomach that is then con- Typically, such an energy deficit, if it can be achieved and nected to the jejunum with a section of small bowel of vary- sustained, will cause a weight loss of about 1 to 2 pounds ing lengths; the pouch is separated from the remaining part per week, or about a 10% weight loss after 6 months. How- of the stomach with staples. Gastric banding surgery in- ever, it is important to prevent vitamin deficiencies during volves placing an adjustable band around the stomach near the dieting period. its upper end; this procedure also creates a small stomach For most people, increasing physical activity is also an pouch that restricts the amount of food that can be eaten at important component of successful long- term reductions each meal. A third procedure that is now becoming more 886 Chapter 72 Dietary Balances; Regulation of Feeding; Obesity and Starvation; Vitamins and Minerals widely used is vertical sleeve gastrectomy, which removes a large part of the stomach with the remaining part stapled 12 back together. These surgical procedures generally produce Protein substantial weight loss in obese patients. The gastric bypass 10 and vertical sleeve procedures often lead to rapid remis- sion of type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, important 8 complications of obesity, even before
