Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


obese patients. The gastric bypass 10 and vertical sleeve procedures often lead to rapid remis- sion of type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, important 8 complications of obesity, even before substantial weight Fat 6 loss has occurred. These procedures are major operations, however, and their long- term effects on overall health and 4 mortality are still uncertain. Inanition, Anorexia, and Cachexia 2 Carbohydrate Inanition is the opposite of obesity and is characterized by 0 extreme weight loss. It can be caused by inadequate avail- 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 ability of food or by pathophysiological conditions that Weeks of starvation greatly decrease the desire for food, including psychogenic Figure 72- 4. Effect of starvation on the food stores of the body. disturbances, hypothalamic abnormalities, and factors re- leased from peripheral tissues. In many cases, especially in rather than fat or protein for energy, the quantity of carbo- persons with serious diseases such as cancer, the reduced hydrate normally stored in the entire body is only a few hun- desire for food may be associated with increased energy ex- dred grams (mainly glycogen in the liver and muscles), and penditure, resulting in serious weight loss. it can supply the energy required for body functions for only Anorexia can be defined as a reduction in food intake perhaps half a day. Therefore, except for the first few hours, caused primarily by diminished appetite, as opposed to the major effects of starvation are progressive depletion of the literal definition of “not eating.” This definition empha- tissue fat and protein. Because fat is the prime source of en- sizes the important role of central neural mechanisms in ergy (100 times as much fat energy as carbohydrate energy is the pathophysiology of anorexia in diseases such as cancer, stored in the average person), the rate of fat depletion con- when other common problems, such as pain and nausea, tinues unabated, as shown in Figure 72- 4, until most of the may also cause a person to consume less food. Anorexia fat stores in the body are gone. nervosa is an abnormal psychic state in which a person los- Protein undergoes three phases of depletion: rapid de- es all desire for food and even becomes nauseated by food; pletion at first, followed by greatly slowed depletion, and as a result, severe inanition occurs. finally rapid depletion again shortly before death. The ini-
