Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and even becomes nauseated by food; pletion at first, followed by greatly slowed depletion, and as a result, severe inanition occurs. finally rapid depletion again shortly before death. The ini- Cachexia is a metabolic disorder of increased energy tial rapid depletion is caused by the use of easily mobilized expenditure leading to weight loss greater than that caused protein for direct metabolism or for conversion to glucose by reduced food intake alone. Anorexia and cachexia often and then metabolism of glucose mainly by the brain. Af- occur together in many types of cancer or in the “wasting ter the readily mobilized protein stores have been depleted syndrome” observed in patients with acquired immuno- during the early phase of starvation, the remaining protein deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and chronic inflammatory is not so easily removed. At this time, the rate of gluconeo- disorders. Almost all types of cancer cause both anorexia genesis decreases to 30% to 50% of its previous rate, and and cachexia, and anorexia- cachexia syndrome develops in the rate of depletion of protein becomes greatly decreased. more than half of persons with cancer during the course of The lessened availability of glucose then initiates a series of their disease. events that leads to excessive fat utilization and conversion Central neural and peripheral factors are believed to of some of the fat breakdown products to ketone bodies, contribute to cancer-i nduced anorexia and cachexia. Sev- producing ketosis, which is discussed in Chapter 69. The eral inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis ketone bodies, like glucose, can cross the blood-b rain bar- factor- α, interleukin- 6, interleukin- 1β, and a proteolysis- rier and can be used by the brain cells for energy. Therefore, inducing factor, have been shown to cause anorexia and about two-thirds of the brain’s energy is now derived from cachexia. Most of these inflammatory cytokines appear to these ketone bodies, principally from β- hydroxybutyrate. mediate anorexia by activation of the melanocortin system This sequence of events leads to at least partial preserva- in the hypothalamus. The precise mechanisms by which tion of the protein stores of the body. cytokines or tumor products interact with the melanocor- There finally comes a time when the fat stores are al- tin pathway to decrease food intake are still unclear, but most depleted, and the only remaining source of energy is blockade of hypothalamic melanocortin receptors greatly protein. At that time, the protein
