Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to decrease food intake are still unclear, but most depleted, and the only remaining source of energy is blockade of hypothalamic melanocortin receptors greatly protein. At that time, the protein stores once again enter a attenuates their anorexic and cachectic effects in experi- stage of rapid depletion. Because proteins are also essential mental animals. Additional research, however, is necessary for the maintenance of cellular function, death ordinarily to better understand the pathophysiological mechanisms ensues when the body proteins have been depleted to about of anorexia and cachexia in persons with cancer and to de- half their normal level. velop therapeutic agents to improve the nutritional status and survival of these individuals. Vitamin Deficiencies in Starvation. The stores of some vitamins, especially the water- soluble vitamins—the vita- Starvation min B group and vitamin C—do not last long during star- Depletion of Food Stores in the Body Tissues During Star- vation. Consequently, after a week or more of starvation, vation. Even though the tissues prefer to use c arbohydrate mild vitamin deficiencies usually begin to appear, and after 887 sffutsdoof derots fo seititnauQ )smargolik( UNIT XIII Unit XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation Table 72- 3 Recommended Daily Dietary Intakes of for the formation of vitamin A do occur in abundance in Vitamins for Adult Men and Women many vegetable foods. These provitamins are the yellow and red carotenoid pigments, which, because their chemical Amount structures are similar to that of vitamin A, can be changed Vitamin Men Women into vitamin A in the liver. A (Retinol) 900 μg (3000 IU) 700 μg (2333 IU) Vitamin A Deficiency Causes “Night Blindness” and B (Thiamine) 1.2 mg 1.0 mg Abnormal Epithelial Cell Growth. One basic function of 1 vitamin A is its use in forming retinal pigments of the eye, B (Riboflavin) 1.3 mg 1.0 mg 2 which is discussed in Chapter 51. Vitamin A is needed to B (Niacin) 16 mg 14 mg 3 form the visual pigments and, therefore, to prevent night B 5 (Pantothenic 5 mg 5 mg blindness. acid) Vitamin A is also necessary for normal growth of most B (Pyridoxine) 1.3 mg 1.3 mg cells of the body and especially for normal growth and pro- 6 liferation of the different types of epithelial cells. When vi- B (Folic acid) 0.4 mg 0.4 mg 9 tamin A is lacking, the epithelial structures of the body tend B 12 2.4 μg
