Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


different types of epithelial cells. When vi- B (Folic acid) 0.4 mg 0.4 mg 9 tamin A is lacking, the epithelial structures of the body tend B 12 2.4 μg 2.4 μg to become stratified and keratinized. Vitamin A deficiency C (Ascorbic acid) 90 mg 75 mg manifests itself by (1) scaliness of the skin and sometimes D (Calciferol) 15 μg (600 IU) 15 μg (600 IU) acne; (2) failure of growth of young animals, including ces- sation of skeletal growth; (3) failure of reproduction, associ- E (Alpha- 15 mg (22.4 IU) 15 mg (22.4 IU) ated especially with atrophy of the germinal epithelium of tocopherol) the testes and sometimes with interruption of the female K 120 μg 90 μg sexual cycle; and (4) keratinization of the cornea, with re- IU, International units. sultant corneal opacity and blindness. Adapted from the US Department of Health and Human In vitamin A deficiency, the damaged epithelial struc- Services, National Institutes of Health, Office of Dietary tures often become infected (e.g., conjunctivae of the eyes, Supplements. linings of the urinary tract, and respiratory passages). Vita- VitaminsMinerals/. min A has been called an “anti- infection” vitamin. Thiamine (Vitamin B ) 1 several weeks, severe vitamin deficiencies can occur. These Thiamine operates in the metabolic systems of the body deficiencies can add to the debility that leads to death. principally as thiamine pyrophosphate; this compound func- Vitamins tions as a cocarboxylase, operating mainly in conjunction Daily Requirements of Vitamins. A vitamin is an or- with a protein decarboxylase for decarboxylation of pyruvic acid and other α-k eto acids, as discussed in Chapter 68. ganic compound needed in small quantities for normal Thiamine deficiency (beriberi) causes decreased utiliza- metabolism that cannot be manufactured in the cells of tion of pyruvic acid and some amino acids by the tissues the body. Lack of vitamins in the diet can cause important but increased utilization of fats. Thus, thiamine is spe- metabolic deficits. Table 72- 3 lists the amounts of impor- cifically needed for final metabolism of carbohydrates and tant vitamins required daily by the average adult man and many amino acids. Decreased utilization of these nutrients woman. These requirements vary considerably, depending is responsible for many debilities associated with thiamine on such factors as body size, rate of growth, amount of ex- deficiency. ercise, pregnancy, and lactation. Thiamine Deficiency Causes Lesions of the Central and Storage of Vitamins
