Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


with thiamine on such factors as body size, rate of growth, amount of ex- deficiency. ercise, pregnancy, and lactation. Thiamine Deficiency Causes Lesions of the Central and Storage of Vitamins in the Body. Vitamins are stored Peripheral Nervous Systems. The central nervous system to a slight extent in all cells. Some vitamins are stored to normally depends almost entirely on the metabolism of car- a major extent in the liver. For example, the quantity of vi- bohydrates for its energy. In thiamine deficiency, utilization tamin A stored in the liver may be sufficient to maintain a of glucose by nervous tissue may be decreased by 50% to 60% person for 5 to 10 months without any intake of vitamin A. and is replaced by utilization of ketone bodies derived from The quantity of vitamin D stored in the liver is usually suf- fat metabolism. The neuronal cells of the central nervous sys- ficient to maintain a person for 2 to 4 months without any tem frequently show chromatolysis and swelling during thia- additional intake of vitamin D. mine deficiency, changes that are characteristic of neuronal The storage of most water- soluble vitamins, especially vi- cells with poor nutrition. These changes can disrupt com- tamin C and most vitamin B compounds, is relatively slight. munication in many portions of the central nervous system. Absence of vitamin C in the diet can cause symptoms within a Thiamine deficiency can cause degeneration of myelin few weeks and can cause death from scurvy in 20 to 30 weeks. sheaths of nerve fibers in both the peripheral nerves and the When a person’s diet is deficient in vitamin B compounds, central nervous system. Lesions in peripheral nerves fre- clinical symptoms of the deficiency can sometimes be recog- quently cause them to become extremely irritable, resulting nized within a few days (except for vitamin B , which can last 12 in “polyneuritis,” characterized by pain radiating along the in the liver in a bound form for a year or longer). course of one or many peripheral nerves. Also, fiber tracts Vitamin A in the cord can degenerate to such an extent that paralysis occasionally results; even in the absence of paralysis, the Vitamin A occurs in animal tissues as retinol. This vitamin muscles atrophy, resulting in severe weakness. does not occur in foods of vegetable origin, but provitamins 888 Chapter 72 Dietary Balances; Regulation of Feeding;
