Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


animal tissues as retinol. This vitamin muscles atrophy, resulting in severe weakness. does not occur in foods of vegetable origin, but provitamins 888 Chapter 72 Dietary Balances; Regulation of Feeding; Obesity and Starvation; Vitamins and Minerals Thiamine Deficiency Weakens the Heart and Causes (NAD) and NAD phosphate. These coenzymes are hydro- Peripheral Vasodilation. Cardiac failure eventually devel- gen acceptors and combine with hydrogen atoms as they ops in a person with severe thiamine deficiency because are removed from food substrates by many types of dehy- of weakened cardiac muscle. Furthermore, the venous re- drogenases. The typical operation of both these coenzymes turn of blood to the heart may be increased to as much is presented in Chapter 68. When niacin deficiency exists, as two times normal, because thiamine deficiency causes the normal rate of dehydrogenation cannot be maintained; peripheral vasodilation throughout the circulatory system, therefore, oxidative delivery of energy from the foodstuffs to presumably as a result of decreased release of metabolic the functioning elements of all cells cannot occur at normal energy in the tissues, leading to local vascular dilation. The rates. cardiac effects of thiamine deficiency are due partly to high In the early stages of niacin deficiency, simple physi- blood flow into the heart and partly to primary weakness of ological changes such as muscle weakness and poor glan- the cardiac muscle. Peripheral edema and ascites also occur dular secretion may occur, but in the case of severe niacin to a major extent in some people with thiamine deficiency, deficiency, actual tissue death ensues. Pathological lesions mainly because of cardiac failure. appear in many parts of the central nervous system, and Thiamine Deficiency Causes Gastrointestinal Tract Dis- permanent dementia or many types of psychoses may re- turbances. Among the gastrointestinal symptoms of thia- sult. In addition, the skin develops a cracked, pigmented mine deficiency are indigestion, severe constipation, ano- scaliness in areas that are exposed to mechanical irritation rexia, gastric atony, and hypochlorhydria. All these effects or sun irradiation; thus, in persons with niacin deficiency, presumably result from failure of the smooth muscle and the skin is unable to repair irritative damage. glands of the gastrointestinal tract to derive sufficient en- Niacin deficiency causes intense irritation and inflam- ergy from carbohydrate metabolism. mation of the mucous membranes of the mouth and other The overall picture of thiamine deficiency, including portions of the gastrointestinal tract, resulting in many
