Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


inflam- ergy from carbohydrate metabolism. mation of the mucous membranes of the mouth and other The overall picture of thiamine deficiency, including portions of the gastrointestinal tract, resulting in many di- polyneuritis, cardiovascular symptoms, and gastrointesti- gestive abnormalities that can lead to widespread gastroin- nal disorders, is frequently referred to as beriberi—espe- testinal hemorrhage in severe cases. It is possible that this cially when the cardiovascular symptoms predominate. condition results from generalized depression of metabo- lism in the gastrointestinal epithelium and failure of appro- Riboflavin (Vitamin B ) 2 priate epithelial repair. Riboflavin normally combines in the tissues with phos- The clinical entity called pellagra and the canine disease phoric acid to form two coenzymes, flavin mononucleotide called black tongue are caused mainly by niacin deficiency. (FMN) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD). They oper- Pellagra is greatly exacerbated in people on a corn diet be- ate as hydrogen carriers in important oxidative systems of cause corn is deficient in the amino acid tryptophan, which the mitochondria. NAD, operating in association with spe- can be converted in limited quantities to niacin in the body. cific dehydrogenases, usually accepts hydrogen removed Pantothenic Acid (Vitamin B ) 5 from various food substrates and then passes the hydrogen to FMN or FAD. Finally, the hydrogen is released as an ion Pantothenic acid is mainly incorporated in the body into into the mitochondrial matrix to become oxidized by oxy- coenzyme A (CoA), which has many metabolic roles in the gen (described in Chapter 68). cells. Two of these roles discussed at length in Chapters 68 Deficiency of riboflavin in experimental animals causes and 69 are (1) conversion of decarboxylated pyruvic acid severe dermatitis, vomiting, diarrhea, muscle spasticity that into acetyl- CoA before its entry into the citric acid cycle finally becomes muscle weakness, coma, and decline in body and (2) degradation of fatty acid molecules into multiple temperature, followed by death. Thus, severe riboflavin defi- molecules of acetyl- CoA. Thus, lack of pantothenic acid can ciency can cause many of the same effects as a lack of niacin in lead to depressed metabolism of carbohydrates and fats. the diet; presumably, the debilities that result in each case are Deficiency of pantothenic acid in experimental animals due to generally depressed oxidative processes within the cells. can cause retarded growth, failure of reproduction, graying In the human being, there are no known cases of ribo- of the
