Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


due to generally depressed oxidative processes within the cells. can cause retarded growth, failure of reproduction, graying In the human being, there are no known cases of ribo- of the hair, dermatitis, fatty liver, and hemorrhagic adreno- flavin deficiency severe enough to cause the marked debili- cortical necrosis. In humans, no definite deficiency syn- ties noted in animal studies, but mild riboflavin deficiency drome has been proved, presumably because of the wide is probably common. Such deficiency causes digestive dis- occurrence of this vitamin in almost all foods and because turbances, burning sensations of the skin and eyes, crack- small amounts can probably be synthesized in the body. ing at the corners of the mouth, headaches, mental depres- This situation does not mean that pantothenic acid is not sion, forgetfulness, and so on. of value in the metabolic systems of the body; indeed, it is Although the manifestations of riboflavin deficiency are perhaps as necessary as any other vitamin. usually relatively mild, this deficiency frequently occurs in Pyridoxine (Vitamin B ) 6 association with deficiency of thiamine, niacin, or both. Many deficiency syndromes, including pellagra, beriberi, Pyridoxine exists in the form of pyridoxal phosphate in the sprue, and kwashiorkor, are probably due to a combined de- cells and functions as a coenzyme for many chemical re- ficiency of a number of vitamins, as well as other aspects of actions related to amino acid and protein metabolism. Its malnutrition. most important role is that of coenzyme in the transami- nation process for the synthesis of amino acids. As a result, Niacin (Vitamin B ) 3 pyridoxine plays many key roles in metabolism, especially Niacin, also called nicotinic acid, functions in the body as protein metabolism. Also, it is believed to act in the trans- coenzymes in the form of nicotinamide adenine d inucleotide port of some amino acids across cell membranes. 889 UNIT XIII Unit XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation Dietary lack of pyridoxine in experimental animals can Ascorbic Acid (Vitamin C) cause dermatitis, decreased rate of growth, development of Ascorbic Acid Deficiency Weakens Collagen Fibers fatty liver, anemia, and evidence of mental deterioration. Throughout the Body. Ascorbic acid is essential for acti- Rarely, in children, pyridoxine deficiency has been known vating the enzyme prolyl hydroxylase, which promotes the to cause seizures, dermatitis, and gastrointestinal distur- hydroxylation step in the formation of hydroxyproline, an bances such as nausea and vomiting. integral
