Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


vating the enzyme prolyl hydroxylase, which promotes the to cause seizures, dermatitis, and gastrointestinal distur- hydroxylation step in the formation of hydroxyproline, an bances such as nausea and vomiting. integral constituent of collagen. Without ascorbic acid, col- Vitamin B lagen fibers that are formed in virtually all tissues of the 12 body are defective and weak. Therefore, this vitamin is es- Several cobalamin compounds that possess a common sential for growth and strength of the fibers in subcutane- prosthetic group exhibit so- called vitamin B activity. This 12 ous tissue, cartilage, bone, and teeth. prosthetic group contains cobalt, which has bonds similar Ascorbic Acid Deficiency Causes Scurvy. Deficiency to those of iron in the hemoglobin molecule. It is likely that of ascorbic acid for 20 to 30 weeks causes scurvy. One of the cobalt atom functions in much the same way that the the most important effects of scurvy is failure of wounds iron atom functions to combine reversibly with other sub- to heal. This condition is caused by failure of the cells to stances. deposit collagen fibrils and intercellular cement substances. Vitamin B Deficiency Causes Pernicious Anemia. Vi- 12 As a result, healing of a wound may require several months tamin B performs several metabolic functions in its role 12 instead of the several days ordinarily necessary. as a hydrogen acceptor coenzyme. Its most important func- Lack of ascorbic acid also causes cessation of bone tion is to act as a coenzyme for reducing ribonucleotides to growth. The cells of the growing epiphyses continue to deoxyribonucleotides, a step that is necessary in the rep- proliferate, but no new collagen is laid down between the lication of genes and could explain the major functions of cells, and the bones fracture easily at the point of growth vitamin B : (1) promotion of growth and (2) promotion of 12 because of failure to ossify. Also, when an already ossified red blood cell formation and maturation. This red blood bone fractures in a person with ascorbic acid deficiency, the cell function is described in detail in Chapter 33 in relation osteoblasts cannot form new bone matrix. Consequently, to pernicious anemia, a type of anemia caused by failure the fractured bone does not heal. of red blood cell maturation when vitamin B is deficient. 12 The blood vessel walls become extremely fragile in persons Vitamin B Deficiency Causes Demyelination of the 12 with
