Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


heal. of red blood cell maturation when vitamin B is deficient. 12 The blood vessel walls become extremely fragile in persons Vitamin B Deficiency Causes Demyelination of the 12 with scurvy because of (1) failure of the endothelial cells to be Large Nerve Fibers of the Spinal Cord. The demyeli- cemented together properly and (2) failure to form the col- nation of nerve fibers in people with vitamin B defi- 12 lagen fibrils normally present in vessel walls. The capillaries ciency occurs especially in the posterior columns, and are especially likely to rupture, and as a result, many small pe- occasionally the lateral columns, of the spinal cord. As a techial hemorrhages occur throughout the body. The hemor- result, many people with pernicious anemia have loss of rhages beneath the skin cause purpuric blotches, sometimes peripheral sensation and, in severe cases, even become over the entire body. In extreme cases of scurvy, the muscle paralyzed. cells sometimes fragment; lesions of the gums occur, with The usual cause of vitamin B deficiency is not lack 12 loosening of the teeth; infections of the mouth develop; and of this vitamin in the food but deficiency of formation of vomiting of blood, bloody stools, and cerebral hemorrhage intrinsic factor, which is normally secreted by the parietal can all occur. Finally, high fever often develops before death. cells of the gastric glands and is essential for absorption of vitamin B by the ileal mucosa. This topic is discussed in Vitamin D 12 Chapters 33 and 67. Vitamin D (calciferol) increases calcium absorption from the Folic Acid (Pteroylglutamic Acid, Vitamin B ) gastrointestinal tract and helps control calcium deposition 9 in the bone. The mechanism by which vitamin D increases Several pteroylglutamic acids exhibit the “folic acid effect.” calcium absorption is mainly to promote active transport Folic acid functions as a carrier of hydroxymethyl and for- of calcium through the epithelium of the ileum. In particu- myl groups. Perhaps its most important use in the body is lar, it increases the formation of a calcium-b inding protein in the synthesis of purines and thymine, which are required in the intestinal epithelial cells that aids in calcium absorp- for DNA formation. Therefore, folic acid, like vitamin B , 12 tion. The specific functions of vitamin D in relation to is required for replication of the cellular genes and may ex- overall body calcium metabolism and bone
