Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


B , 12 tion. The specific functions of vitamin D in relation to is required for replication of the cellular genes and may ex- overall body calcium metabolism and bone formation are plain one of the most important functions of folic acid—to presented in Chapter 80. promote growth. Indeed, when it is absent from the diet, an animal grows very little. Vitamin E (Alpha- Tocopherol) Folic acid is an even more potent growth promoter than Several related compounds exhibit so-c alled vitamin E activ- vitamin B and, like vitamin B , it is important for the 12 12 ity. Only rare cases of proved vitamin E deficiency have oc- maturation of red blood cells, as discussed in Chapter 33. curred in human beings. In animal studies, lack of vitamin E However, vitamin B and folic acid each perform specific 12 can cause degeneration of the germinal epithelium in the testis and different chemical functions in promoting growth and and, therefore, can cause male sterility. Lack of vitamin E can maturation of red blood cells. One of the significant effects also cause resorption of a fetus after conception in the female. of folic acid deficiency is the development of macrocytic Because of these effects of vitamin E deficiency, vitamin E is anemia, almost identical to that which occurs in pernicious sometimes called the “antisterility vitamin.” Deficiency of vita- anemia. This often can be treated effectively with folic acid min E prevents normal growth and sometimes causes degen- alone. eration of the renal tubular cells and the muscle cells. 890 Chapter 72 Dietary Balances; Regulation of Feeding; Obesity and Starvation; Vitamins and Minerals Vitamin E is believed to play a protective role in the pre- Table 72- 4 Recommended or Adequate Daily Dietary vention of oxidation of unsaturated fats. In the absence of Intakes of Minerals for Adult Men and Women vitamin E, the quantity of unsaturated fats in the cells be- Amount comes diminished, causing abnormal structure and func- Mineral Men Women tion of such cellular organelles as the mitochondria, the Sodium 1500 mg 1500 mg lysosomes, and even the cell membrane. Potassium 3400 mg 2600 mg Vitamin K Chloride 2300 mg 2300 mg Vitamin K is an essential co- factor to a liver enzyme that Calcium 1000 mga 1000 mgb adds a carboxyl group to factors II (prothrombin), VII (pro- Phosphorus 700 mg 700 mg convertin), IX, and X, all
