Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to a liver enzyme that Calcium 1000 mga 1000 mgb adds a carboxyl group to factors II (prothrombin), VII (pro- Phosphorus 700 mg 700 mg convertin), IX, and X, all of which are important in blood coagulation. Without this carboxylation, these coagulation Iron 8 mg 18 mgc factors are inactive. Therefore, when vitamin K deficiency Iodine 150 μg 150 μg occurs, blood clotting is retarded. The function of this vi- Fluoride 4 mg 3 mg tamin and its relation to some of the anticoagulants, such Magnesium 420 mg 320 mg as dicumarol, are presented in greater detail in Chapter 37. Several natural and synthetic compounds exhibit vita- Molybdenum 45 mg 45 mg min K activity. Because vitamin K is synthesized by bac- Selenium 55 μg 55 μg teria in the colon, it is rare for a person to have a bleed- Copper 900 μg 900 μg ing tendency because of vitamin K deficiency in the diet. However, when the bacteria of the colon are destroyed by Manganese 2.3 mg 1.8 mg administration of large quantities of antibiotic drugs, vita- Zinc 11 mg 8 mg min K deficiency occurs rapidly because of the paucity of Recommended daily allowances are in bold type and adequate this compound in the normal diet. intakes are in regular type. aIncrease to 1200 mg/day after age 70. Mineral Metabolism bIncrease to 1200 mg/day after age 51. The functions of many minerals, such as sodium, potas- cDecrease to 8 mg/day after age 51. sium, and chloride, are presented at appropriate points in Source: The National Academies of Sciences, Health and Medicine the text. Only specific functions of minerals not covered Division. SummaryDRIs/DRI-Tables.aspx elsewhere are mentioned here. The average recommended or adequate daily dietary intakes of these minerals for adult men and women are provided in Table 72- 4. Also, bone contains a large amount of calcium phosphate, Magnesium. Magnesium is about one sixth as plentiful which is discussed in Chapter 80. in cells as potassium. Magnesium is required as a catalyst Iron. The function of iron in the body, especially in rela- for many intracellular enzymatic reactions, particularly tion to the formation of hemoglobin, is discussed in Chap- those related to carbohydrate metabolism. ter 33. Two thirds of the iron in the body is in the form of The extracellular fluid magnesium concentration hemoglobin, although smaller quantities are present in other is slight, only 1.8 to 2.5
