Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the iron in the body is in the form of The extracellular fluid magnesium concentration hemoglobin, although smaller quantities are present in other is slight, only 1.8 to 2.5 mEq/L. Increased extracellular forms, especially in the liver and bone marrow. Electron concentration of magnesium depresses nervous system carriers containing iron (especially the cytochromes) are activity, as well as skeletal muscle contraction. This latter present in the mitochondria of all cells of the body and are effect can be blocked by the administration of calcium. essential for most of the oxidation that occurs in the cells. Low magnesium concentration causes increased irrita- Therefore, iron is absolutely essential for transport of oxy- bility of the nervous system, peripheral vasodilation, and gen to the tissues and operation of oxidative systems within cardiac arrhythmias, especially after acute myocardial the tissue cells, without which life would cease within a few infarction. seconds. Calcium. Calcium is present in the body mainly in the form of calcium phosphate in the bone. This subject is dis- Important Trace Elements in the Body cussed in detail in Chapter 80, as is the calcium content A few elements are present in the body in such small quan- of extracellular fluid. Excess quantities of calcium ions in tities that they are called trace elements. The amounts of extracellular fluid can cause the heart to stop in systole and these elements in foods are also usually minute. Yet, with- can act as a mental depressant. At the other extreme, low out any one of them, a specific deficiency syndrome is likely levels of calcium can cause spontaneous discharge of nerve to develop. Three of the most important trace elements are fibers, resulting in tetany, as discussed in Chapter 80. iodine, zinc, and fluorine. Phosphorus. Phosphate is the major anion of intracel- Iodine. The best known of the trace elements is iodine. lular fluid. Phosphates have the ability to combine revers- This element is discussed in Chapter 77 in connection with ibly with many coenzyme systems and with multiple other the formation and function of thyroid hormone; as shown compounds that are necessary for the operation of meta- in Table 72- 4, the entire body contains an average of only bolic processes. Many important reactions of phosphates 14 milligrams. Iodine is essential for the formation of thy- have been catalogued at other points in this text, especial- roxine and triiodothyronine, the two
