Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Many important reactions of phosphates 14 milligrams. Iodine is essential for the formation of thy- have been catalogued at other points in this text, especial- roxine and triiodothyronine, the two thyroid hormones that ly in relation to the functions of adenosine triphosphate, are essential for maintenance of normal metabolic rates in adenosine diphosphate, phosphocreatine, and so forth. all cells of the body. 891 UNIT XIII Unit XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation Zinc. Zinc is an integral part of many enzymes, one of Apovian CM, Aronne LJ, Bessesen DH, et al: Endocrine Society Phar- macological management of obesity: an Endocrine Society clinical the most important of which is carbonic anhydrase, which practice guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 100:342, 2015. is present in especially high concentration in the red blood Bray GA, Heisel WE, Afshin A, et al: The science of obesity manage- cells. This enzyme is responsible for rapid combination of ment: an endocrine society scientific statement. Endocr Rev 39:79, carbon dioxide with water in red blood cells of peripher- 2018. al capillary blood and for rapid release of carbon dioxide Christakos S, Dhawan P, Verstuyf A, et al: Vitamin D: Metabolism, from pulmonary capillary blood into the alveoli. Carbonic molecular mechanism of action, and pleiotropic effects. Physiol Rev anhydrase is also present to a major extent in the gastroin- 96:365, 2016. testinal mucosa, the tubules of the kidney, and the epithe- Clemmensen C, Müller TD, Woods SC, et al: Gut-b rain cross-t alk in lial cells of many glands of the body. Consequently, zinc in metabolic control. Cell 168:758, 2017. small quantities is essential for the performance of many Fernandez- Twinn DS, Hjort L, Novakovic B, et al: Intrauterine pro- gramming of obesity and type 2 diabetes. Diabetologia 62:1789, reactions related to carbon dioxide metabolism. 2019. Zinc is also a component of lactic dehydrogenase and Friedman J: The long road to leptin. J Clin Invest. 126:4727, 2016. is therefore important for the interconversions between Hall JE, do Carmo JM, da Silva AA, Wang Z, Hall ME: Obesity, kidney pyruvic acid and lactic acid. Finally, zinc is a component dysfunction and hypertension: mechanistic links. Nat Rev Nephrol of some peptidases and is important for the digestion of 15:367, 2019. proteins in the gastrointestinal tract. Hall JE, do Carmo JM, da Silva AA, Wang Z, Hall ME: Obesity-i nduced Fluorine. Fluorine does not seem to be a necessary el- hypertension: interaction of
