Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the gastrointestinal tract. Hall JE, do Carmo JM, da Silva AA, Wang Z, Hall ME: Obesity-i nduced Fluorine. Fluorine does not seem to be a necessary el- hypertension: interaction of neurohumoral and renal mechanisms. ement for metabolism, but the presence of a small quan- Circ Res 116:991, 2015. tity of fluorine in the body during the period of life when Hall JE, Hall ME: Cardiometabolic Surgery for Treatment of Hyperten- sion? Hypertension 73:543, 2019. the teeth are being formed subsequently protects against Heymsfield SB, Wadden TA: Mechanisms, pathophysiology, and caries. Fluorine does not make the teeth stronger but sup- management of obesity. N Engl J Med 376:254, 2017. presses the cariogenic process. It has been suggested that Kim KS, Seeley RJ, Sandoval DA: Signalling from the periphery to the fluorine is deposited in the hydroxyapatite crystals of the brain that regulates energy homeostasis. Nat Rev Neurosci 19:185, tooth enamel and combines with and therefore blocks the 2018. functions of various trace metals that are necessary for acti- National Academy of Sciences, Health and Medicine Division. http vation of the bacterial enzymes that cause caries. Therefore, ://nationalacademies.org/hmd/ Activities/Nutrition/SummaryDRIs/D when fluorine is present, the enzymes remain inactive and RI- Tables.aspx cause no caries. National Institutes of Health, Office of Dietary Supplements. Excessive intake of fluorine causes fluorosis, which man- ds.od.nih.gov/factsheets/list- VitaminsMinerals/ Neeland IJ, Poirier P, Després JP: Cardiovascular and metabolic het- ifests in its mild state by mottled teeth and in its more se- erogeneity of obesity: clinical challenges and implications for man- vere state by enlarged bones. It has been postulated that in agement. Circulation 137:1391, 2018. this condition, fluorine combines with trace metals in some Pan WW, Myers MG Jr: Leptin and the maintenance of elevated body of the metabolic enzymes, including the phosphatases, so weight. Nat Rev Neurosci 19:95, 2018. that various metabolic systems become partially inacti- Pareek M, Schauer PR, Kaplan LM, et al: Metabolic surgery: weight vated. According to this theory, the mottled teeth and en- loss, diabetes, and beyond. J Am Coll Cardiol 71:670, 2018. larged bones are due to abnormal enzyme systems in the Rohde K, Keller M, la Cour Poulsen L, et al: Genetics and epigenetics odontoblasts and osteoblasts. Even though the mottled in obesity. Metabolism 92:37, 2019. teeth are highly resistant to the development of caries, the Rohm M, Zeigerer A, Machado J, Herzig S: Energy metabolism in structural strength of these teeth
