Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


form urea, An attribute of ATP that makes it highly valuable as which is simply discarded by the body. However, remem- an energy currency is the large quantity of free energy bering the extreme toxicity of ammonia in the body fluids, (≈7300 calories—or 7.3 Calories [kilocalories]—per mole one can see the value of this reaction, which keeps the am- under standard conditions, but as much as 12,000 calo- monia concentration of the body fluids at a low level. ries under physiological conditions) vested in each of its ATP Energizes Muscle Contraction. Muscle contraction two high- energy phosphate bonds. The amount of energy will not occur without energy from ATP. Myosin, one of in each bond, when liberated by decomposition of ATP, is the important contractile proteins of the muscle fiber, acts enough to cause almost any step of any chemical reaction as an enzyme to cause breakdown of ATP into adenosine in the body to take place if appropriate energy transfer is diphosphate (ADP), thus releasing the energy required to achieved. Some chemical reactions that require ATP ener- cause contraction. Only a small amount of ATP is normally gy use only a few hundred of the available 12,000 calories, degraded in muscles when muscle contraction is not occur- and the remainder of this energy is lost in the form of heat. ring, but this rate of ATP usage can rise to at least 150 times ATP Is Generated by Combustion of Carbohydrates, the resting level during short bursts of maximal contrac- Fats, and Proteins. In previous chapters, we discussed the tion. The mechanism by which ATP energy is used to cause transfer of energy from various foods to ATP. To summa- muscle contraction is discussed in Chapter 6. rize, ATP is produced through the following processes: ATP Energizes Active Transport Across Membranes. In 1. C ombustion of carbohydrates—mainly glucose, but Chapters 4, 28, and 66, active transport of electrolytes and also smaller amounts of other sugars such as fructose; various nutrients across cell membranes and from the re- this combustion occurs in the cell cytoplasm through nal tubules and gastrointestinal tract into the blood is dis- the anaerobic process of glycolysis and in the cell mito- cussed. We noted that active transport of most electrolytes chondria through the aerobic citric acid (Krebs) cycle. and substances such as glucose, amino acids, and acetoac- 2. Combustion of fatty acids in the cell
