Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


active transport of most electrolytes chondria through the aerobic citric acid (Krebs) cycle. and substances such as glucose, amino acids, and acetoac- 2. Combustion of fatty acids in the cell mitochondria by etate can occur against an electrochemical gradient, even beta- oxidation. though the natural diffusion of the substances would be in 3. Combustion of proteins, which requires hydrolysis to the opposite direction. Energy provided by ATP is required their component amino acids and degradation of the to oppose the electrochemical gradient. amino acids to intermediate compounds of the citric ATP Energizes Glandular Secretion. The same princi- acid cycle and then to acetyl coenzyme A and carbon ples apply to glandular secretion as to the absorption of dioxide. substances against concentration gradients because energy ATP Energizes the Synthesis of Cellular Components. is required to concentrate substances as they are secreted Among the most important intracellular processes that by the glandular cells. In addition, energy is required to require ATP energy is the formation of peptide linkages synthesize the organic compounds to be secreted. between amino acids during synthesis of proteins. The ATP Energizes Nerve Conduction. The energy used different peptide linkages, depending on which types of during propagation of nerve impulses is derived from the amino acids are linked, require from 500 to 5000 calories potential energy stored in the form of concentration dif- of energy per mole. Recall from Chapter 3 that four high- ferences of ions across the neuronal cell membranes. That energy phosphate bonds are expended during the cascade is, a high concentration of potassium inside the neuron 893 UNIT XIII Unit XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation and a low concentration outside the neuron constitute a Anaerobic Versus Aerobic Energy Glycogen Energy for type of energy storage. Likewise, a high concentration of Anaerobic energy means energy that can be derived from Glucose 1. Synthesis and growth sodium on the outside of the membrane and a low con- 2. Muscular contraction c Then et r ea nt eio rgn y o nn e t eh de e din ts oid pe a r se sp er ae cs hen at c a tin oo nt h pe or t es nto tr iae l o af l oe nn ge r tg hy e. f b oo i nco l yd e s n b w e yr i g ot yh x o im du at e
