Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


nn ge r tg hy e. f b oo i nco l yd e s n b w e yr i g ot yh x o im du at e t a it vh n ee s ms ei nm ee tu arg blt y oa n lit se h mo au t . s Ic nu a nt Ci li b hz e aa pt di to een rr si o v 6ef 8do x tf hy rg o roe mn u ; g fa hoe o 7r do 0s- , Lactic acid Pyruvic aci( dAnaerobic) ATP 3 4 5. . . G N Acela tr in v ved e u c al oa bnr s ds oe u rpc c tr t iie oot nnion fiber membrane is derived from this energy storage, with we noted that carbohydrates, fats, and proteins can all be 6. Other small amounts of potassium transferring out of the cell and oxidized to cause synthesis of ATP. However, carbohydrates Acetyl-CoA sodium into the cell during each of the action potentials. are the only significant foods that can be used to provide However, active transport systems energized by ATP then energy without utilization of oxygen; this energy release oc- retransport the ions back through the membrane to their curs during glycolytic breakdown of glucose or glycogen Deaminated Phosphocreatine former positions. amino acids to pyruvic acid. For each mole of glucose that is split into Phosphocreatine Functions as an Accessory Storage pyruvic acid, 2 moles of ATP are formed. However, when AMP Depot for Energy and as an “ATP Buffer” stored glycogen in a cell is split to pyruvic acid, each mole Other substrates Despite the paramount importance of ATP as a coupling of glucose in the glycogen gives rise to 3 moles of ATP. The agent for energy transfer, this substance is not the most reason for this difference is that free glucose entering the abundant store of high-e nergy phosphate bonds in the cells. cell must be phosphorylated by using 1 mole of ATP before CO 2 + H 2O Creatine + PO 4 Phosphocreatine, which also contains high-e nergy phosphate it can begin to be split; this is not true of glucose derived bonds, is three to eight times more abundant than ATP. Also, from glycogen because it comes from the glycogen already the high-e nergy bond (∼) of phosphocreatine contains about
