Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


derived bonds, is three to eight times more abundant than ATP. Also, from glycogen because it comes from the glycogen already the high-e nergy bond (∼) of phosphocreatine contains about in the phosphorylated state, without the additional expend- 8500 calories per mole under standard conditions and as iture of ATP. Thus, the best source of energy under anaerobic many as 13,000 calories per mole under conditions in the conditions is the stored glycogen of the cells. body (37°C and low concentrations of the reactants). This Anaerobic Energy Utilization During Hypoxia. One of amount is slightly greater than the 12,000 calories per mole the prime examples of anaerobic energy utilization occurs in each of the two high-e nergy phosphate bonds of ATP. The in acute hypoxia. When a person stops breathing, a small formula for creatinine phosphate is the following: amount of oxygen is already stored in the lungs and an ad- ditional amount is stored in the hemoglobin of the blood. CH NH H O 3 This oxygen is sufficient to keep the metabolic processes HOOC CH N C N~P OH functioning for only about 2 minutes. Continued life be- 2 yond this time requires an additional source of energy. This O H energy can be derived for another minute or so from glyco- lysis—that is, the glycogen of the cells splitting into pyruvic Unlike ATP, phosphocreatine cannot act as a direct acid, and the pyruvic acid becoming lactic acid, which dif- coupling agent for energy transfer between the foods and fuses out of the cells, as described in Chapter 68. the functional cellular systems, but it can transfer energy Anaerobic Energy Utilization During Strenuous Bursts interchangeably with ATP. When extra amounts of ATP of Activity Is Derived Mainly From Glycolysis. Skeletal are available in the cell, much of its energy is used to syn- muscles can perform extreme feats of strength for a few thesize phosphocreatine, thus building up this storehouse seconds but are much less capable during prolonged activ- of energy. Then, when the ATP begins to be used up, the ity. Most of the extra energy required during these bursts of energy in the phosphocreatine is transferred rapidly back activity cannot come from the oxidative processes because to ATP and then to the functional systems of the cells. This they are too slow to respond. Instead, the extra energy reversible interrelation between ATP and phosphocreatine comes from
