Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to ATP and then to the functional systems of the cells. This they are too slow to respond. Instead, the extra energy reversible interrelation between ATP and phosphocreatine comes from anaerobic sources: (1) ATP already present in is demonstrated by the following equation: the muscle cells, (2) phosphocreatine in the cells, and (3) anaerobic energy released by glycolytic breakdown of gly- Phosphocreatine + ADP cogen to lactic acid. The maximum amount of ATP in muscle is only about 5 ATP + Creatine mmol/L of intracellular fluid, and this amount can maintain maximum muscle contraction for no more than a second The higher energy level of the high- energy phosphate or so. The amount of phosphocreatine in the cells is three bond in phosphocreatine (1000–1500 calories per mole to eight times this amount, but even by using all the phos- greater than that in ATP) causes the reaction between phocreatine, maximum contraction can be maintained for phosphocreatine and ADP to proceed rapidly toward the only 5 to 10 seconds. formation of new ATP whenever the slightest amount of Release of energy by glycolysis can occur much more ATP expends its energy elsewhere. Therefore, the slightest rapidly than can oxidative release of energy. Consequently, usage of ATP by the cells calls forth the energy from the most of the extra energy required during strenuous activity phosphocreatine to synthesize new ATP. This effect keeps that lasts for more than 5 to 10 seconds but less than 1 to the concentration of ATP at an almost constant high level 2 minutes is derived from anaerobic glycolysis. As a result, as long as any phosphocreatine remains. For this reason, we the glycogen content of muscles during strenuous bouts of can call the ATP- phosphocreatine system an ATP “buffer” exercise is reduced, whereas the lactic acid concentration of system. One can readily understand the importance of the blood rises. After the exercise is over, oxidative metabo- keeping the concentration of ATP nearly constant because lism is used to reconvert about four fifths of the lactic acid the rates of almost all the metabolic reactions in the body into glucose; the remainder becomes pyruvic acid and is de- depend on this constancy. 894 Chapter 73 Energetics and Metabolic Rate Glycogen Energy for Glucose 1. Synthesis and growth 2. Muscular contraction Lactic acid Pyruvic aci( dAnaerobic) ATP 3 4. . G Nela rn ved u cl oa nr
