Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Metabolic Rate Glycogen Energy for Glucose 1. Synthesis and growth 2. Muscular contraction Lactic acid Pyruvic aci( dAnaerobic) ATP 3 4. . G Nela rn ved u cl oa nr dse uc cr tie ot nion 5. Active absorption 6. Other Acetyl-CoA Deaminated Phosphocreatine amino acids AMP Other substrates CO + H O Creatine + PO 2 2 4 Figure 73- 1. Overall schema of energy transfer from foods to the adenylic acid system and then to the functional elements of the cells. Acetyl- CoA, Acetyl coenzyme A; AMP, adenosine monophosphate; ATP, adenosine triphosphate. (Modified from Soskin S, Levine R: Carbohydrate Metabolism. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1952.) graded and oxidized in the citric acid cycle. The reconver- metabolism cannot deliver bursts of extreme energy to the sion to glucose occurs principally in the liver cells, and the cells nearly as rapidly as the anaerobic processes can, but at glucose is then transported in the blood back to the mus- slower rates of usage, the oxidative processes can continue cles, where it is stored once more in the form of glycogen. as long as energy stores (mainly fat) exist. Extra Consumption of Oxygen Repays the Oxygen Debt Control of Energy Release in the Cell After Completion of Strenuous Exercise. After a period of strenuous exercise, a person continues to breathe hard and to Rate Control of Enzyme-C atalyzed Reactions. Before dis- consume large amounts of oxygen for at least a few minutes cussing the control of energy release in the cell, it is necessary and sometimes for as long as 1 hour thereafter. This addi- to consider the basic principles of rate control of enzymati- tional oxygen is used to (1) reconvert the lactic acid that has cally catalyzed chemical reactions, which are the types of re- accumulated during exercise back into glucose, (2) reconvert actions that occur almost universally throughout the body. adenosine monophosphate and ADP to ATP, (3) reconvert The mechanism by which an enzyme catalyzes a chemical creatine and phosphate to phosphocreatine, (4) re-e stablish reaction is, first, for the enzyme to combine loosely with one of normal concentrations of oxygen bound with hemoglobin the substrates of the reaction. This loose combination alters the and myoglobin, and (5) raise the concentration of oxygen in bonding forces on the substrate sufficiently so that it can react the lungs to its normal level. This extra consumption of oxy- with
