Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


(5) raise the concentration of oxygen in bonding forces on the substrate sufficiently so that it can react the lungs to its normal level. This extra consumption of oxy- with other substances. Therefore, the rate of the overall chemi- gen after exercise is called repaying the oxygen debt. cal reaction is determined by the concentration of the enzyme The principle of oxygen debt is discussed further in and the concentration of the substrate that binds with the en- Chapter 85 in relation to sports physiology. The ability of a zyme. The basic equation expressing this concept is as follows: person to build up an oxygen debt is especially important in many types of athletics. Rateofreaction = K 1× [Enzyme] × [Substrate] K + [Substrate] Summary of Energy Utilization by the Cells 2 With the background of the past few chapters and of the pre- This equation is called the Michaelis- Menten equation. ceding discussion, we can now synthesize a composite picture of Figure 73- 2 shows the application of this equation. overall energy utilization by the cells, as shown in Figure 73- 1. Role of Enzyme Concentration in Regulation of Meta- This figure demonstrates the anaerobic utilization of glycogen bolic Reactions. Figure 73- 2 shows that when the substrate and glucose to form ATP and the aerobic utilization of com- concentration is high, as shown in the right half of the figure, pounds derived from carbohydrates, fats, proteins, and other the rate of a chemical reaction is determined almost entirely substances to form additional ATP. In turn, ATP is in reversible by the concentration of the enzyme. Thus, as the enzyme equilibrium with phosphocreatine in the cells, and because larg- concentration increases from an arbitrary value of 1 up to 2, er quantities of phosphocreatine than of ATP are present in the 4, or 8, the rate of the reaction increases proportionately, as cells, much of the cells’ stored energy is in this energy storehouse. demonstrated by the rising levels of the curves. For exam- Energy from ATP can be used by the different function- ple, when large quantities of glucose enter the renal tubules ing systems of the cells to provide for synthesis and growth, in a person with diabetes mellitus—that is, the substrate muscle contraction, glandular secretion, nerve impulse glucose is in great excess in the tubules—further increases conduction, active absorption, and other cellular activi- in tubular glucose
