Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


diabetes mellitus—that is, the substrate muscle contraction, glandular secretion, nerve impulse glucose is in great excess in the tubules—further increases conduction, active absorption, and other cellular activi- in tubular glucose have little effect on glucose reabsorption, ties. If greater amounts of energy are demanded for cellular because the transport enzymes are saturated. Under these activities than can be provided by oxidative metabolism, conditions, the rate of reabsorption of the glucose is limited the phosphocreatine storehouse is used first, followed rap- by the concentration of the transport enzymes in the proxi- idly by anaerobic breakdown of glycogen. Thus, oxidative mal tubular cells, not by the concentration of the glucose. 895 UNIT XIII Unit XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation 8 the energy in foods becomes heat during ATP formation. Additional energy becomes heat as it is transferred from ATP to the functional systems of the cells, so even under optimal conditions, no more than 27% of all the energy from food is finally used by the functional systems. 4 Even when 27% of the energy reaches the functional sys- tems of the cells, most of this energy eventually becomes heat. For example, when proteins are synthesized, large 2 portions of ATP are used to form the peptide linkages, and 1 this action stores energy in these linkages. However, con- tinuous turnover of proteins also occurs—some are being degraded while others are being formed. When proteins Substrate concentration are degraded, the energy stored in the peptide linkages is Figure 73- 2. Effect of substrate and enzyme concentrations on the released in the form of heat into the body. rate of enzyme- catalyzed reaction. Another example is the energy used for muscle activity. Much of this energy simply overcomes the viscosity of the Role of Substrate Concentration in Regulation of Met- muscles or of the tissues so that the limbs can move. This abolic Reactions. Note also in Figure 73- 2 that when the viscous movement causes friction within the tissues, which generates heat. substrate concentration becomes low enough that only a Consider also the energy expended by the heart in small portion of the enzyme is required in the reaction, pumping blood. The blood distends the arterial system, and the rate of the reaction becomes directly proportional to this distention represents a reservoir of potential energy. As the substrate concentration, as well as the enzyme concen- the blood flows through peripheral vessels, the
