Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


reaction becomes directly proportional to this distention represents a reservoir of potential energy. As the substrate concentration, as well as the enzyme concen- the blood flows through peripheral vessels, the friction of tration. This is the relationship seen in the absorption of different layers of blood flowing over one another and the substances from the intestinal tract and renal tubules when friction of blood against the walls of the vessels turn all this their concentrations are low. Rate Limitation in a Series of Reactions. Almost all energy into heat. Essentially all the energy expended by the body is even- chemical reactions of the body occur in series, with the tually converted into heat. The only significant exception product of one reaction acting as a substrate for the next occurs when the muscles are used to perform some form reaction, and so on. Therefore, the overall rate of a complex of work outside the body. For example, when the muscles series of chemical reactions is determined mainly by the elevate an object to a height or propel the body up steps, a rate of reaction of the slowest step in the series, which is type of potential energy is created by raising a mass against called the rate- limiting step in the entire series. gravity. However, when external expenditure of energy is ADP Concentration as a Rate-C ontrolling Factor in En- ergy Release. Under resting conditions, the concentration not taking place, all the energy released by the metabolic processes eventually becomes body heat. of ADP in the cells is extremely slight, and thus the chemical The Calorie. To discuss the metabolic rate of the body reactions that depend on ADP as one of the substrates are and related subjects quantitatively, it is necessary to use quite slow. They include all the oxidative metabolic path- some unit for expressing the quantity of energy released ways that release energy from food, as well as essentially all from different foods or expended by different functional other pathways for the release of energy in the body. Thus, processes of the body. Most often, the Calorie is the unit ADP is a major rate-l imiting factor for almost all energy used for this purpose. Recall that 1 calorie—spelled with metabolism of the body. a small “c” and often called a gram calorie—is the quantity When the cells become active, regardless of the type of of heat
