Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


1 calorie—spelled with metabolism of the body. a small “c” and often called a gram calorie—is the quantity When the cells become active, regardless of the type of of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 gram of wa- activity, ATP is converted into ADP, increasing the concen- ter 1°C. The calorie is much too small a unit to use when tration of ADP in direct proportion to the degree of activity referring to energy in the body. Consequently, the Calo- of the cell. This ADP then automatically increases the rates rie—spelled with a capital “C” and often called a kilocalorie, of all the reactions for the metabolic release of energy from which is equivalent to 1000 calories—is the unit ordinarily food. Thus, by this simple process, the amount of energy used when discussing energy metabolism. released in the cell is controlled by the degree of activity of the cell. In the absence of cellular activity, the release of Measurement of the Whole-B ody Metabolic Rate energy stops because all the ADP soon becomes ATP. Direct Calorimetry Measures Heat Liberated From the Metabolic Rate Body. If a person is not performing any external work, the whole- body metabolic rate can be determined by simply The metabolism of the body simply means all the chemical measuring the total quantity of heat liberated from the reactions in all the cells of the body, and the metabolic rate body in a given time. is normally expressed in terms of the rate of heat liberation In determining the metabolic rate by direct calorimetry, during chemical reactions. one measures the quantity of heat liberated from the body Heat Is the End Product of Almost All the Energy Re- in a large, specially constructed calorimeter. The subject is leased in the Body. In discussing many of the metabolic placed in an air chamber that is so well insulated that no heat reactions in the preceding chapters, we noted that not all can leak through the walls of the chamber. Heat formed by the energy in foods is transferred to ATP; instead, a large the subject’s body warms the air of the chamber. However, portion of this energy becomes heat. On average, 35% of the air temperature within the chamber is maintained at a 896 noitcaer fo etaR noitartnecnoc emyznE Chapter 73 Energetics and Metabolic Rate constant level by forcing the air through pipes in a
