Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


temperature within the chamber is maintained at a 896 noitcaer fo etaR noitartnecnoc emyznE Chapter 73 Energetics and Metabolic Rate constant level by forcing the air through pipes in a cool wa- 3000 ter bath. The rate of heat gain by the water bath, which can be measured with an accurate thermometer, is equal to the Excercise and nonexercise physical rate at which heat is liberated by the subject’s body. activity thermogenesis (32%) 2250 Direct calorimetry is physically difficult to perform and is used only for research purposes. Thermic effect of food (8%) Indirect Calorimetry—The “Energy Equivalent” of Arousal Oxygen. Because more than 95% of the energy expended 1500 in the body is derived from reactions of oxygen with the different foods, the whole- body metabolic rate can also be Resting energy Sleeping expenditure calculated with a high degree of accuracy from the rate of 750 metabolic (60%) oxygen utilization. When 1 liter of oxygen is metabolized rate with glucose, 5.01 Calories of energy are released; when metabolized with starches, 5.06 Calories are released; with fat, 4.70 Calories; and with protein, 4.60 Calories. 0 These figures clearly demonstrate that the quantities of Figure 73- 3. Average daily energy expenditure and components of energy liberated per liter of oxygen consumed are nearly energy usage in a 70- kg person in energy balance and ingesting ap- equivalent when different types of food are metabolized. proximately 3000 Calories per day. For the average diet, the quantity of energy liberated per lit- er of oxygen used in the body averages about 4.825 Calories, which is called the energy equivalent of oxygen. By using performed. For example, walking up stairs requires about this energy equivalent, one can calculate with a high degree 17 times as much energy as lying in bed asleep. In general, of precision the rate of heat liberation in the body from the over a 24-h our period, a person performing heavy labor quantity of oxygen used in a given period. can achieve a maximal rate of energy utilization as great as If a person metabolizes only carbohydrates during the 6000 to 7000 Calories, or as much as 3.5 times the energy period of the metabolic rate determination, the calculated used under conditions of no physical activity. quantity of energy liberated, based on the value for the Basal Metabolic Rate—The Minimum Energy Expendi- average energy equivalent of oxygen (4.825 Calories/L), ture for
