Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


conditions of no physical activity. quantity of energy liberated, based on the value for the Basal Metabolic Rate—The Minimum Energy Expendi- average energy equivalent of oxygen (4.825 Calories/L), ture for the Body to Exist would be about 4% too little. Conversely, if the person ob- tains most energy from fat, the calculated value would be Even when a person is at complete rest, considerable en- about 4% too great. ergy is required to perform all the chemical reactions of the body. This minimum level of energy required to exist Energy Metabolism—Factors That Influence Energy is called the basal metabolic rate (BMR) and accounts for Output about 50% to 70% of the daily energy expenditure in most As discussed in Chapter 72, energy intake is balanced with sedentary persons (Figure 73- 3). energy output in healthy adults who maintain a stable body Because the level of physical activity is highly variable weight. In the average American diet, about 45% of daily among different persons, measurement of the BMR pro- energy intake is derived from carbohydrates, 40% from fats, vides a useful means of comparing one person’s metabolic and 15% from proteins. Energy output can also be parti- rate with that of another. The usual method for determin- tioned into several measurable components, including en- ing BMR is to measure the rate of oxygen utilization over a ergy used for (1) performing essential metabolic functions given period under the following conditions: of the body (the “basal” metabolic rate); (2) performing 1. Th e person must not have eaten food for at least 12 various physical activities, including nonexercise physical hours. activity and physical activity associated with volitional ex- 2. Th e BMR is determined after a night of restful sleep. ercise; (3) digesting, absorbing, and processing food; and 3. N o strenuous activity is performed for at least 1 hour (4) maintaining body temperature. before the test. 4. A ll psychic and physical factors that cause excite- Overall Energy Requirements for Daily Activities ment must be eliminated. An average man who weighs 70 kilograms and lies in bed 5. Th e temperature of the air must be comfortable and all day uses about 1650 Calories of energy. The process of between 68°F and 80°F. eating and digesting food increases the amount of energy 6. N o physical activity is permitted during the test. used each day by an additional 200 or more
