Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


single muscle can liberate as much as 100 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 times its normal resting amount of heat for a few seconds. Age (years) For the entire body, maximal muscle exercise can increase Figure 73- 4. Normal basal metabolic rates at different ages for each the overall heat production of the body for a few seconds sex. to about 50 times normal, or to about 20 times normal for more sustained exercise in a well- trained individual. Table 73- 1 shows the energy expenditure during different values for males and females of different ages are shown in types of physical activity for a 70-k ilogram man. Because of the Figure 73- 4. great variation in the amount of physical activity among indi- Much of the decline in BMR with increasing age is prob- viduals, this component of energy expenditure is the most im- ably related to loss of muscle mass and replacement of mus- portant reason for the differences in caloric intake required to cle with adipose tissue, which has a lower rate of metabo- maintain energy balance. However, in industrialized countries lism. Likewise, slightly lower BMRs in women, compared where food supplies are generally plentiful and the level of phys- with men, are due partly to the lower percentage of muscle ical activity is often low, caloric intake often periodically exceeds mass and higher percentage of adipose tissue in women. energy expenditure, and the excess energy is stored mainly as However, other factors can influence the BMR, as is dis- fat. This underscores the importance of maintaining a proper cussed next. level of physical activity to prevent excess fat stores and obesity. Thyroid Hormone Increases Metabolic Rate. When the Even in sedentary individuals who perform little or no daily thyroid gland secretes maximal amounts of thyroxine, the exercise or physical work, significant energy is spent on spon- metabolic rate sometimes rises 50% to 100% above normal. taneous physical activity required to maintain muscle tone and Conversely, total loss of thyroid secretion decreases the body posture and on other nonexercise activities. Together, metabolic rate to 40% to 60% of normal. As discussed in these nonexercise activities typically account for about 7% of a Chapter 77, thyroxine increases the chemical reaction rates sedentary person’s daily energy usage. However, this percent- of many cells in the body and therefore increases meta- age can vary markedly among
