Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


77, thyroxine increases the chemical reaction rates sedentary person’s daily energy usage. However, this percent- of many cells in the body and therefore increases meta- age can vary markedly among different people depending on bolic rate. Adaptation of the thyroid gland—with increased their occupation, habits (e.g. walking to work, using the stairs secretion in cold climates and decreased secretion in hot rather than elevators, fidgeting), and leisure time activities. climates—contributes to the differences in BMRs among Energy Used for Processing Food—Thermogenic Ef- people living in different geographical zones. For example, fect of Food people living in arctic regions have BMRs that are 10% to 20% higher than those of persons living in tropical regions. After a meal is ingested, the metabolic rate increases as a Male Sex Hormone Increases Metabolic Rate. The male result of the different chemical reactions associated with sex hormone testosterone can increase the metabolic rate digestion, absorption, and storage of food in the body. This about 10% to 15%. The female sex hormones may increase increase is called the thermogenic effect of food because the BMR a small amount, but usually not enough to be sig- these processes require energy and generate heat. nificant. Much of this effect of the male sex hormone is re- After a meal that contains a large quantity of carbohy- lated to its anabolic effect to increase skeletal muscle mass. drates or fats, the metabolic rate usually increases about Growth Hormone Increases Metabolic Rate. Growth 4%. However, after a meal high in protein, the metabolic hormone can increase the metabolic rate by stimulat- rate usually begins rising within an hour, reaching a maxi- ing cellular metabolism and by increasing skeletal muscle mum of about 30% above normal, and this rate lasts for 3 mass. In adults with growth hormone deficiency, replace- to 12 hours. This effect of protein on the metabolic rate is ment therapy with recombinant growth hormone increases called the specific dynamic action of protein. The thermo- the basal metabolic rate by about 20%. genic effect of food accounts for about 8% of the total daily Fever Increases Metabolic Rate. Fever, regardless of its energy expenditure in many persons. cause, increases the chemical reactions of the body by an Energy Used for Nonshivering Thermogenesis—Role average of about 120% for every 10°C rise in temperature. of Sympathetic Stimulation This is discussed in more detail in Chapter 74. Sleep Decreases Metabolic
