Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


adaptation. metabolic health and disease. Diabetologia 62:17, 2019. 899 UNIT XIII CHAPTER 7 4 Body Temperature Regulation and Fever NORMAL BODY TEMPERATURES The body temperature increases during exercise and varies with temperature extremes of the surroundings Body Core Temperature and Skin Temperature. The because the temperature regulatory mechanisms are not temperature of the deep tissues of the body—the “core” perfect. When excessive heat is produced in the body by of the body—usually remains very constant, within ±1°F strenuous exercise, the temperature can rise temporarily (±0.6°C), except when a person has a febrile illness. In- to as high as 101°F to 104°F. Conversely, when the body is deed, a nude person can be exposed to temperatures as exposed to extreme cold, the temperature can fall below low as 55°F or as high as 130°F in dry air and still maintain 96°F. an almost constant core temperature. The mechanisms for regulating body temperature represent a beautifully BODY TEMPERATURE IS CONTROLLED designed control system. In this chapter we discuss this BY BALANCING HEAT PRODUCTION system as it operates in health and in disease. AND HEAT LOSS The skin temperature, in contrast to the core tempera- ture, rises and falls with the temperature of the surround- When the rate of heat production in the body is greater ings. The skin temperature is important when we refer to than the rate at which heat is being lost, heat builds up the skin’s ability to lose heat to the surroundings. in the body, and the body temperature rises. Conversely, when heat loss is greater, both body heat and body tem- Normal Core Temperature. No single core tempera- perature decrease. Most of the remainder of this chapter ture can be considered normal because measurements in is concerned with this balance between heat production many healthy people have shown a range of normal tem- and heat loss and the mechanisms by which the body con- peratures measured orally, as shown in Figure 74- 1, from trols this production and loss. less than 97°F (36°C) to greater than 99.5°F (37.5°C). The average normal core temperature is generally considered HEAT PRODUCTION to be between 98.0°F and 98.6°F when measured orally Heat production is a principal by- product of metabo- and about 1°F higher when measured rectally. lism. In Chapter 73, which summarizes body energet- ics, we discuss the different factors that determine the Oral °F °C Rectal rate of heat
