Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


about 1°F higher when measured rectally. lism. In Chapter 73, which summarizes body energet- ics, we discuss the different factors that determine the Oral °F °C Rectal rate of heat production, called the metabolic rate of the 104 40 body. The most important of these factors are listed again here: (1) basal rate of metabolism of all the cells of Hard exercise 102 39 the body; (2) extra rate of metabolism caused by muscle Emotion or activity, including muscle contractions caused by shiv- Hard work, emotion moderate exercise A few normal adults 100 38 A few normal adults ering; (3) extra metabolism caused by the effect of thy- Many active children Many active children roxine (and, to a lesser extent, other hormones, such Usual range 37 Usual range as growth hormone and testosterone) on the cells; (4) of normal 98 of normal extra metabolism caused by the effect of epinephrine, norepinephrine, and sympathetic stimulation on the 36 Early morning Early morning cells; (5) extra metabolism caused by increased chemi- 96 Cold weather, etc. Cold weather, etc. cal activity in the cells, especially when the cell tem- Figure 74- 1. Estimated normal range of body “core” temperature. perature increases; and (6) extra metabolism needed for (Modified from DuBois EF: Fever. Springfield, IL: Charles C. Thomas, digestion, absorption, and storage of food (thermogenic 1948.) effect of food). 901 UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation HEAT LOSS of skin flow can decrease heat conduction from the core to very little. Most of the heat produced in the body is generated in the Figure 74- 3 shows quantitatively the effect of environ- deep organs, especially the liver, brain, and heart, and in mental air temperature on conductance of heat from the the skeletal muscles during physical activity. This heat is core to the skin surface and then conductance into the air, then transferred from the deeper organs and tissues to the demonstrating an approximate eightfold increase in heat skin, where it is lost to the air and other surroundings. conductance between the fully vasoconstricted state and Therefore, the rate at which heat is lost is determined the fully vasodilated state. almost entirely by two factors: (1) how rapidly heat can be Therefore, the skin is an effective controlled “heat radi- conducted from where it is produced in the body core to ator” system, and the flow of blood to the skin is
