Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the skin is an effective controlled “heat radi- conducted from where it is produced in the body core to ator” system, and the flow of blood to the skin is a most the skin and (2) how rapidly heat can then be transferred effective mechanism for heat transfer from the body core from the skin to the surroundings. Let us begin by dis- to the skin. cussing the system that insulates the core from the skin Control of Heat Conduction to the Skin by the Sym- surface. pathetic Nervous System. Heat conduction to the skin Insulator System of the Body by the blood is controlled by the degree of vasoconstric- The skin, the subcutaneous tissues, and especially the fat tion of the arterioles and the arteriovenous anastomoses of the subcutaneous tissues act together as a heat insula- that supply blood to the venous plexus of the skin. This tor for the body. The fat is important because it conducts vasoconstriction is controlled almost entirely by the sym- heat only one-third as readily as other tissues. When no pathetic nervous system in response to changes in body blood is flowing from the heated internal organs to the core temperature and changes in environmental tempera- skin, the insulating properties of the normal male body ture. This is discussed later in the chapter in connection are about equal to three-quarters the insulating proper- with control of body temperature by the hypothalamus. ties of a usual suit of clothes. In women, this insulation is Basic Physics of Heat Loss From the Skin even better. Surface The insulation beneath the skin is an effective means of maintaining normal internal core temperature, even The various methods by which heat is lost from the skin though it allows the temperature of the skin to approach to the surroundings are shown in Figure 74- 4. They the temperature of the surroundings. include radiation, conduction, and evaporation, which are explained next. Blood Flow to the Skin From the Body Core Provides Heat Transfer Radiation Causes Heat Loss in the Form of Infrared Rays. As shown in Figure 74- 4, in a nude person sitting Blood vessels are distributed profusely beneath the skin. inside at normal room temperature, about 60% of total Especially important is a continuous venous plexus that heat loss is by radiation. is supplied by inflow of blood from the skin capillaries, Most infrared heat rays (a
