Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of total Especially important is a continuous venous plexus that heat loss is by radiation. is supplied by inflow of blood from the skin capillaries, Most infrared heat rays (a type of electromagnetic shown in Figure 74- 2. In the most exposed areas of the ray) that radiate from the body have wavelengths of 5 to body—the hands, feet, and ears—blood is also supplied to the plexus directly from the small arteries through highly Vasodilated muscular arteriovenous anastomoses. 8 The rate of blood flow into the skin venous plexus can vary tremendously, from barely above zero to as great as 7 30% of the total cardiac output. A high rate of skin flow 6 causes heat to be conducted from the body core to the skin with great efficiency, whereas reduction in the rate 5 4 3 Epidermis 2 Vasoconstricted Capillaries 1 Dermis Arteries 0 Veins 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 Environmental temperature (°F) Venous plexus Subcutaneous Figure 74- 3. Effect of changes in the environmental temperature tissue Arteriovenous on heat conductance from the body core to the skin surface (in °F). anastomosis (Modified from Benzinger TH: Heat and Temperature Fundamen- Artery tals of Medical Physiology. New York: Dowden, Hutchinson & Ross, Figure 74- 2. Skin circulation. 1980.) 902 niks hguorht ecnatcudnoc taeH )etar detcirtsnocosav eht(cid:3)(cid:117)( Chapter 74 Body Temperature Regulation and Fever 20 micrometers, 10 to 30 times the wavelengths of light and heat loss by convection increases accordingly. The rays. All objects that are not at absolute zero temperature cooling effect of wind at low velocities is about propor- radiate such rays. The human body radiates heat rays in tional to the square root of the wind velocity. For example, all directions. Heat rays are also being radiated from the a wind of 4 miles per hour is about twice as effective for walls of rooms and other objects toward the body. If the cooling as a wind of 1 mile per hour. temperature of the body is greater than the temperature Conduction and Convection of Heat From a Person of the surroundings, a greater quantity of heat is radiated Suspended in Water. Water has a specific heat several from the body than is radiated to the body. thousand times as great as that of air, so each unit portion Conductive Heat Loss Occurs by Direct Contact With of water adjacent to the skin can
