Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to the body. thousand times as great as that of air, so each unit portion Conductive Heat Loss Occurs by Direct Contact With of water adjacent to the skin can absorb far greater quan- an Object. As shown in Figure 74- 4, only minute quanti- tities of heat than can be absorbed by air. Also, heat con- ties of heat, about 3%, are normally lost from the body by ductivity in water is very great in comparison with that in direct conduction from the surface of the body to solid air. Consequently, it is impossible for the body to heat a objects, such as a chair or a bed. Loss of heat by conduc- thin layer of water next to the body to form an “insulator tion to air, however, represents a sizable proportion of the zone” as occurs in air. Therefore, if the temperature of the body’s heat loss (≈15%), even under normal conditions. water is below body temperature the rate of heat loss to Heat is actually the kinetic energy of molecular motion, water is usually many times greater than the rate of heat and the molecules of the skin are continually undergoing loss to air. vibratory motion. Much of the energy of this motion can Evaporation be transferred to the air if the air is colder than the skin, thus increasing the velocity of the air molecules’ motion. When water evaporates from the body surface, 0.58 Calo- Once the temperature of the air adjacent to the skin rie (kilocalorie) of heat is lost for each gram of water that equals the temperature of the skin, no further loss of heat evaporates. Even when a person is not sweating, water occurs in this way because now an equal amount of heat still evaporates insensibly from the skin and lungs at a rate is conducted from the air to the body. Therefore, conduc- of about 600 to 700 ml/day. This insensible evaporation tion of heat from the body to the air is self-l imited unless causes continual heat loss at a rate of 16 to 19 Calories the heated air moves away from the skin, so new, unheated per hour. Insensible evaporation through the skin and air is continually brought in contact with the skin, a phe- lungs cannot be controlled for purposes of temperature nomenon called air convection. regulation because it results from continual diffusion of water molecules
