Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


brought in contact with the skin, a phe- lungs cannot be controlled for purposes of temperature nomenon called air convection. regulation because it results from continual diffusion of water molecules through the skin and respiratory sur- Convective Heat Loss Results From Air Movement. faces. However, loss of heat by evaporation of sweat can Heat from the skin is first conducted to the air and then be controlled by regulating the rate of sweating, which is carried away by the convection air currents. discussed later in this chapter. A small amount of convection almost always occurs around the body because of the tendency for air adja- Evaporation is a Necessary Cooling Mechanism at cent to the skin to rise as it becomes heated. Therefore, Very High Air Temperatures. As long as skin tempera- in a nude person seated in a comfortable room without ture is greater than the temperature of the surroundings, gross air movement, about 15% of his or her total heat loss heat can be lost by radiation and conduction. However, occurs by conduction to the air and then by air convec- when the temperature of the surroundings becomes tion away from the body. greater than that of the skin, instead of losing heat, the body gains heat by both radiation and conduction. Under Cooling Effect of Wind. When the body is exposed to these conditions, the only means by which the body can wind, the layer of air immediately adjacent to the skin is rid itself of heat is by evaporation. replaced by new air much more rapidly than is normal, Therefore, anything that prevents adequate evapora- tion when the surrounding temperature is higher than the skin temperature will cause the internal body temperature Walls Evaporation (22%) to rise. This phenomenon occurs occasionally in human beings who are born with congenital absence of sweat glands. These people can tolerate cold temperatures as Radiation (60%) heat waves well as normal people can, but they can become severely stressed and die of heatstroke in tropical zones because, without the evaporative refrigeration system, they cannot prevent a rise in body temperature when the air tempera- Conduction to air (15%) ture is greater than that of the body. Air currents Clothing Reduces Conductive and Convective Heat (convection) Conduction to Loss. Clothing entraps air next to the skin in the weave of objects (3%) the cloth, thereby increasing the thickness of the so-
