Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Conductive and Convective Heat (convection) Conduction to Loss. Clothing entraps air next to the skin in the weave of objects (3%) the cloth, thereby increasing the thickness of the so- called Figure 74- 4. Mechanisms of heat loss from the body. 903 UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation private zone of air adjacent to the skin and decreasing the Pore flow of convection air currents. Consequently, the rate of heat loss from the body by conduction and convection is greatly depressed. A usual suit of clothes decreases the rate of heat loss to about half that from the nude body, but arctic- type clothing can decrease this heat loss to as little as one sixth. About half the heat transmitted from the skin to the clothing is radiated to the clothing instead of being con- Duct ducted across the small intervening space. Therefore, coating the inside of clothing with a thin layer of metal, Absorption, mainly sodium and chloride ions such as silver or gold, which reflects radiant heat back to the body, makes the insulating properties of clothing far more effective than otherwise. By using this technique, clothing for use in the arctic can be decreased in weight by about half. The effectiveness of clothing in maintaining body temperature is almost completely lost when the cloth- Gland ing becomes wet because the high conductivity of water Primary increases the rate of heat transmission through cloth 20- secretion, fold or more. Therefore, one of the most important factors mainly for protecting the body against cold in arctic regions is protein- free extreme caution against allowing the clothing to become filtrate wet. Indeed, one must be careful not to become over- heated even temporarily because sweating in one’s clothes makes them much less effective thereafter as an insulator. Sympathetic nerve Sweating and Its Regulation by the Autonomic Nervous System Figure 74- 5. Sweat gland innervated by an acetylcholine-s ecreting sympathetic nerve. A primary protein-f ree secretion is formed by the Stimulation of the anterior hypothalamus- preoptic area in glandular portion, but most of the electrolytes are reabsorbed in the duct, leaving a dilute, watery secretion. the brain either electrically or by excess heat causes sweat- ing. The nerve impulses from this area that cause sweating are transmitted in the autonomic pathways to the spinal The precursor secretion is an active secretory product cord and then through sympathetic outflow to
