Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


from this area that cause sweating are transmitted in the autonomic pathways to the spinal The precursor secretion is an active secretory product cord and then through sympathetic outflow to the skin. of the epithelial cells lining the coiled portion of the sweat It should be recalled from the discussion of the auto- gland. Cholinergic sympathetic nerve fibers ending on or nomic nervous system in Chapter 61 that the sweat near the glandular cells elicit the secretion. glands are innervated by cholinergic nerve fibers (fibers The composition of the precursor secretion is simi- that secrete acetylcholine but that run in the sympathetic lar to that of plasma, except that it does not contain nerves along with the adrenergic fibers). These glands plasma proteins. The concentration of sodium is about can also be stimulated to some extent by epinephrine or 142 mEq/L, and that of chloride is about 104 mEq/L, norepinephrine circulating in the blood, even though the with much smaller concentrations of the other solutes glands themselves do not have adrenergic innervation. of plasma. As this precursor solution flows through This mechanism is important during exercise, when these the duct portion of the gland, it is modified by reab- hormones are secreted by the adrenal medullae and the sorption of most of the sodium and chloride ions. The body needs to lose excessive amounts of heat produced degree of this reabsorption depends on the rate of by the active muscles. sweating. Mechanism of Sweat Secretion. In Figure 74- 5, the When the sweat glands are stimulated only slightly, sweat gland is shown to be a tubular structure consist- the precursor fluid passes through the duct slowly. In this ing of two parts: (1) a deep subdermal coiled portion that case, essentially all the sodium and chloride ions are reab- secretes the sweat, and (2) a duct portion that passes out- sorbed, and the concentration of each falls to as low as ward through the dermis and epidermis of the skin. As is 5 mEq/L. This process reduces the osmotic pressure of true of so many other glands, the secretory portion of the the sweat fluid to such a low level that most of the water sweat gland secretes a fluid called the primary secretion is also reabsorbed, which concentrates most of the other or precursor secretion; the concentrations of constituents constituents. Therefore, at low rates of sweating, such in the
