Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


called the primary secretion is also reabsorbed, which concentrates most of the other or precursor secretion; the concentrations of constituents constituents. Therefore, at low rates of sweating, such in the fluid are then modified as the fluid flows through constituents as urea, lactic acid, and potassium ions are the duct. usually very concentrated. 904 simredipE simreD Chapter 74 Body Temperature Regulation and Fever Conversely, when the sweat glands are strongly stimulated passage mucosa as a result of water evaporation from the by the sympathetic nervous system, large amounts of precur- mucosal surfaces, especially evaporation of saliva from the sor secretion are formed, and the duct may reabsorb only tongue. Yet, panting does not increase the alveolar ventila- tion more than is required for proper control of the blood slightly more than half the sodium chloride; the concentra- gases because each breath is extremely shallow; therefore, tions of sodium and chloride ions are then (in an unacclima- most of the air that enters the alveoli is dead- space air tized person) a maximum of about 50 to 60 mEq/L, slightly mainly from the trachea and not from the atmosphere. less than half the concentrations in plasma. Furthermore, the sweat flows through the glandular tubules so rapidly that lit- REGULATION OF BODY tle of the water is reabsorbed. Therefore, the other dissolved TEMPERATURE—ROLE OF THE constituents of sweat are only moderately increased in con- HYPOTHALAMUS centration; urea is about twice that in the plasma, lactic acid about 4 times, and potassium about 1.2 times. Figure 74- 6 shows what happens to the body “core” tem- A significant loss of sodium chloride occurs in the perature of a nude person after a few hours’ exposure to sweat when a person is unacclimatized to heat. Much less dry air ranging from 30°F to 160°F. The precise dimensions electrolyte loss occurs, despite increased sweating capac- of this curve depend on the wind movement of the air, the ity, once a person has become acclimatized. amount of moisture in the air, and even the nature of the Acclimatization of the Sweating Mechanism to surroundings. In general, a nude person in dry air between Heat—The Role of Aldosterone. Although a normal, 55°F and 130°F is capable of maintaining a normal body unacclimatized person seldom produces more than about core temperature somewhere between 97°F and 100°F. 1 liter of sweat per hour, when this person is exposed to
