Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


maintaining a normal body unacclimatized person seldom produces more than about core temperature somewhere between 97°F and 100°F. 1 liter of sweat per hour, when this person is exposed to The temperature of the body is regulated almost hot weather for 1 to 6 weeks, he or she begins to sweat entirely by nervous feedback mechanisms, and almost more profusely, often increasing maximum sweat pro- all these mechanisms operate through temperature- duction to as much as 2 to 3 L/hr. Evaporation of this regulating centers located in the hypothalamus. For these much sweat can remove heat from the body at a rate more feedback mechanisms to operate, there must also be tem- than 10 times the normal basal rate of heat production. perature detectors to determine when body temperature This increased effectiveness of the sweating mechanism becomes either too high or too low. is caused by a change in the internal sweat gland cells to ROLE OF THE ANTERIOR HYPOTHALAMIC- increase their sweating capability. PREOPTIC AREA IN THERMOSTATIC Also associated with acclimatization is a further DETECTION OF TEMPERATURE decrease in the concentration of sodium chloride in the sweat, which allows progressively better conservation of The anterior hypothalamic- preoptic area contains large body salt. Most of this effect is caused by increased secre- numbers of heat- sensitive neurons, as well as about one- tion of aldosterone by the adrenocortical glands, which third as many cold- sensitive neurons. These neurons are results from a slight decrease in sodium chloride concen- believed to function as temperature sensors for control- tration in the extracellular fluid and plasma. An unaccli- ling body temperature. The heat- sensitive neurons increase matized person who sweats profusely often loses 15 to 30 their firing rate 2- to 10-f old in response to a 10°-C increase grams of salt each day for the first few days. After 4 to 6 in body temperature. The cold- sensitive neurons, by con- weeks of acclimatization, the loss is usually 3 to 5 g/day. trast, increase their firing rate when body temperature falls. Loss of Heat by Panting 110 Many animals have little ability to lose heat from the sur- faces of their bodies, for two reasons: (1) the surfaces are 100 often covered with fur, and (2) the skin of most animals is not supplied with sweat glands, which prevents most of the 90 evaporative loss of heat from the skin. A substitute
