Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


with fur, and (2) the skin of most animals is not supplied with sweat glands, which prevents most of the 90 evaporative loss of heat from the skin. A substitute mecha- nism, the panting mechanism, is used by many animals as a means of dissipating heat. 80 The phenomenon of panting is “turned on” by the ther- moregulator centers of the brain. That is, when the blood 70 becomes overheated, the hypothalamus initiates neuro- genic signals to decrease the body temperature. One of these signals initiates panting. The actual panting process 60 30 50 70 90 110 130 150 is controlled by a panting center that is associated with the pneumotaxic respiratory center located in the pons. Atmospheric temperature (°F) When an animal pants, it breathes in and out rapidly, Figure 74- 6. Effect of high and low atmospheric temperatures of and thus large quantities of new air from the exterior come several hours’ duration, under dry conditions, on the internal body in contact with the upper portions of the respiratory pas- core temperature (in °F). Note that the internal body temperature sages. This mechanism cools the blood in the respiratory remains stable, despite wide changes in atmospheric temperature. 905 )F°( erutarepmet ydoB UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation temperature control mainly through the hypothalamus. When the preoptic area is heated, the skin all over the The area of the hypothalamus that they stimulate is located body immediately breaks out in a profuse sweat, whereas bilaterally in the posterior hypothalamus approximately the skin blood vessels over the entire body become greatly at the level of the mammillary bodies. The temperature dilated. This response is an immediate reaction to cause the sensory signals from the anterior hypothalamic- preoptic body to lose heat, thereby helping to return the body tem- area are also transmitted into this posterior hypothalamic perature toward the normal level. In addition, any excess area. Here the signals from the preoptic area and the sig- body heat production is inhibited. Therefore, it is clear that nals from elsewhere in the body are combined and inte- the hypothalamic- preoptic area has the capability to serve grated to control the heat- producing and heat- conserving as a thermostatic body temperature control center. reactions of the body. DETECTION OF TEMPERATURE BY NEURONAL EFFECTOR MECHANISMS RECEPTORS IN THE SKIN AND DEEP BODY THAT DECREASE OR INCREASE BODY TISSUES TEMPERATURE Although the
