Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


temperature control center. reactions of the body. DETECTION OF TEMPERATURE BY NEURONAL EFFECTOR MECHANISMS RECEPTORS IN THE SKIN AND DEEP BODY THAT DECREASE OR INCREASE BODY TISSUES TEMPERATURE Although the signals generated by the temperature recep- When the hypothalamic temperature centers detect tors of the hypothalamus are extremely powerful in con- that the body temperature is either too high or too low, trolling body temperature, receptors in other parts of the they institute appropriate temperature-d ecreasing or body play additional roles in temperature regulation. This temperature- increasing procedures. The reader is prob- is especially true of temperature receptors in the skin and ably familiar with most of these procedures from personal in a few specific deep tissues of the body. experience, but special features are described in the fol- Recall from the discussion of sensory receptors in lowing sections. Chapter 49 that the skin is endowed with both cold and Temperature- Decreasing Mechanisms warmth receptors. The skin has far more cold receptors When the Body Is Too Hot than warmth receptors—in fact, 10 times as many in many parts of the skin. Therefore, peripheral detection The temperature control system uses three important of temperature mainly concerns detecting cool and cold mechanisms to reduce body heat when the body tempera- instead of warm temperatures. ture becomes too great: Although the molecular mechanisms for sensing 1. Vasodilation of skin blood vessels. In almost all areas changes in temperature are not well understood, experi- of the body, the skin blood vessels become intensely mental studies suggest that the transient receptor poten- dilated. This dilation is caused by inhibition of the tial family of cation channels, found in somatosensory sympathetic centers in the posterior hypothalamus neurons and epidermal cells, may mediate thermal sensa- that cause vasoconstriction. Full vasodilation can tion over a wide range of skin temperatures. increase the rate of heat transfer to the skin as much When the skin is chilled over the entire body, imme- as eightfold. diate reflex effects are invoked and begin to increase the 2. Sweating. The effect of increased body temperature temperature of the body in several ways: (1) by provid- to cause sweating is demonstrated by the blue curve ing a strong stimulus to cause shivering, with a resul- in Figure 74- 7, which shows a sharp increase in the tant increase in the rate of body heat production; (2) by rate of evaporative heat loss
