Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


with a resul- in Figure 74- 7, which shows a sharp increase in the tant increase in the rate of body heat production; (2) by rate of evaporative heat loss resulting from sweat- inhibiting sweating, if this is already occurring; and (3) by ing when the body core temperature rises above the promoting skin vasoconstriction to diminish loss of body critical level of 37.1°C (98.8°F). An additional 1°C heat from the skin. increase in body temperature causes enough sweat- Deep body temperature receptors are found mainly in ing to remove 10 times the basal rate of body heat the spinal cord, in the abdominal viscera, and in or around production. the great veins in the upper abdomen and thorax. These 3. Decrease in heat production. The mechanisms that deep receptors function differently from the skin recep- cause excess heat production, such as shivering and tors because they are exposed to the body core tempera- chemical thermogenesis, are strongly inhibited. ture rather than the body surface temperature. Yet, like Temperature- Increasing Mechanisms the skin temperature receptors, they detect mainly cold When the Body Is Too Cold rather than warmth. It is probable that both the skin and the deep body receptors are concerned with preventing When the body is too cold, the temperature control sys- hypothermia—that is, preventing low body temperature. tem institutes procedures opposite of those when the body is too hot: POSTERIOR HYPOTHALAMUS 1. Skin vasoconstriction throughout the body. This va- INTEGRATES CENTRAL AND PERIPHERAL soconstriction is caused by stimulation of the pos- TEMPERATURE SENSORY SIGNALS terior hypothalamic sympathetic centers. Even though many temperature sensory signals arise in 2. Piloerection. Piloerection means hairs “standing on peripheral receptors, these signals contribute to body end.” Sympathetic stimulation causes the arrector 906 Chapter 74 Body Temperature Regulation and Fever 90 results from feedback oscillation of the muscle spindle stretch reflex mechanism, which is discussed in Chapter 80 Evaporative heat loss 55. During maximum shivering, body heat production can rise to four to five times normal. 70 Sympathetic “Chemical” Excitation of Heat Produc- 60 tion. As noted in Chapter 73, an increase in either sym- 50 pathetic stimulation or circulating norepinephrine and epi- Heat production nephrine in the blood can rapidly increase the rate of cellular 40 metabolism. This effect is called chemical thermogenesis, or nonshivering thermogenesis. It results at least partially from 30 the ability of norepinephrine and epinephrine to uncouple oxidative
