Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


rate of cellular 40 metabolism. This effect is called chemical thermogenesis, or nonshivering thermogenesis. It results at least partially from 30 the ability of norepinephrine and epinephrine to uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, which means that excess food- 20 stuffs are oxidized and thereby release energy in the form of 10 heat but do not cause adenosine triphosphate to be formed. The degree of chemical thermogenesis that occurs in 0 an animal is almost directly proportional to the amount of 36.4 36.6 36.8 37.0 37.2 37.4 37.6 brown fat in the animal’s tissues. This type of fat contains Head temperature (°C) large numbers of special mitochondria where uncoupled Figure 74- 7. Effect of hypothalamic temperature on evaporative oxidation occurs, as described in Chapter 73. Brown fat heat loss from the body and on heat production caused primarily by is richly supplied with sympathetic nerves that release muscle activity and shivering (in °C). This figure demonstrates the ex- tremely critical temperature level at which increased heat loss begins norepinephrine, which stimulates tissue expression of and heat production reaches a minimum stable level. mitochondrial uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1, also called thermogenin) and increases thermogenesis. pili muscles attached to the hair follicles to contract, Acclimatization greatly affects the intensity of chemi- which brings the hairs to an upright stance and pro- cal thermogenesis; some animals, such as rats, that have duces “goose bumps” on the skin at the base of the been exposed to a cold environment for several weeks hairs. This mechanism is not important in human exhibit a 100% to 500% increase in heat production when beings, but in many animals, upright projection of acutely exposed to cold, in contrast to the unacclimatized the hairs allows them to entrap a thick layer of “in- animal, which responds with an increase of perhaps one- sulator air” next to the skin, so transfer of heat to the third as much. This increased thermogenesis also leads to surroundings is greatly depressed. a corresponding increase in food intake. 3. Increase in thermogenesis (heat production). Heat In adult human beings, who have almost no brown fat, production by the metabolic systems is increased by it is rare for chemical thermogenesis to increase the rate of promoting shivering, sympathetic excitation of heat heat production more than 10% to 15%. However, in infants, production, and thyroxine secretion. These meth- who do have a small amount of brown fat in their
