Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


excitation of heat heat production more than 10% to 15%. However, in infants, production, and thyroxine secretion. These meth- who do have a small amount of brown fat in their interscapu- ods of increasing heat require additional explana- lar space, chemical thermogenesis can increase the rate of tion, which is provided in the following sections. heat production 100%, which is probably an important factor Hypothalamic Stimulation of Shivering. Located in in maintaining normal body temperature in neonates. the dorsomedial portion of the posterior hypothalamus Increased Thyroxine Output as a Long-T erm Cause near the wall of the third ventricle is an area called the of Increased Heat Production. Cooling the anterior primary motor center for shivering. This area is normally hypothalamic- preoptic area also increases production inhibited by signals from the heat center in the anterior of the neurosecretory hormone thyrotropin- releasing hypothalamic- preoptic area but is excited by cold signals hormone by the hypothalamus. This hormone is carried from the skin and spinal cord. Therefore, as shown by the by way of the hypothalamic portal veins to the anterior sudden increase in “heat production” (see the red curve pituitary gland, where it stimulates secretion of thyroid- in Figure 74- 7), this center becomes activated when the stimulating hormone. body temperature falls even a fraction of a degree below Thyroid- stimulating hormone in turn stimulates a critical temperature level. It then transmits signals that increased output of thyroxine by the thyroid gland, as cause shivering through bilateral tracts down the brain explained in Chapter 77. The increased thyroxine acti- stem, into the lateral columns of the spinal cord, and fi- vates uncoupling protein and increases the rate of cellular nally to the anterior motor neurons. These signals are metabolism throughout the body, which is yet another nonrhythmic and do not cause the actual muscle shak- mechanism of chemical thermogenesis. This increase in ing. Instead, they increase the tone of the skeletal muscles metabolism does not occur immediately but requires throughout the body by facilitating the activity of the an- several weeks’ exposure to cold to make the thyroid terior motor neurons. When the tone rises above a cer- gland hypertrophy and reach its new level of thyroxine tain critical level, shivering begins. This reaction probably secretion. 907 dnoces rep seirolaC UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation Exposure of animals to extreme cold for several weeks 90 can cause
