Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


shivering begins. This reaction probably secretion. 907 dnoces rep seirolaC UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation Exposure of animals to extreme cold for several weeks 90 can cause their thyroid glands to increase in size 20% to 80 40%. However, human beings seldom allow themselves to 33°C be exposed to the same degree of cold as that to which 70 to many animals are often subjected. Therefore, we still 39°C do not know, quantitatively, how important the thyroid 60 mechanism of adaptation to cold is in the human being. Skin temperature Isolated measurements have shown that metabolic 50 rates increase in military personnel residing for several Sweating 32°C months in the arctic; some of the Inuit, the indigenous 40 people who inhabit the Arctic regions of Alaska, Canada, 31°C or Greenland, also have abnormally high basal metabolic 30 rates. Further, the continuous stimulatory effect of cold 30°C 20 on the thyroid gland may explain the much higher inci- Set point 29°C dence of toxic thyroid goiters in people who live in cold 10 Insensible climates than in those who live in warm climates. evaporation “SET POINT” FOR TEMPERATURE 0 36.0 36.2 36.4 36.6 36.8 37.0 37.2 37.4 CONTROL Internal head temperature (°C) In the example of Figure 74- 7, it is clear that at a critical Figure 74- 8. Effect of changes in the internal head temperature on the rate of evaporative heat loss from the body (in °C). Note that the body core temperature of about 37.1°C (98.8°F), drastic skin temperature determines the set point level at which sweating changes occur in the rates of both heat loss and heat pro- begins. (Courtesy Dr. T.H. Benzinger.) duction. At temperatures above this level, the rate of heat loss is greater than that of heat production, so the body temperature falls and approaches the 37.1°C level. At tem- heat temperature receptors in the anterior hypothalamic- peratures below this level, the rate of heat production is preoptic area. However, temperature signals from the greater than that of heat loss, so the body temperature peripheral areas of the body, especially from the skin and rises and again approaches the 37.1°C level. This crucial certain deep body tissues (e.g., spinal cord and abdomi- temperature level is called the “set point” of the tempera- nal viscera), also contribute slightly to body temperature ture control mechanism—that is, all the temperature con- regulation by altering
