Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


abdomi- temperature level is called the “set point” of the tempera- nal viscera), also contribute slightly to body temperature ture control mechanism—that is, all the temperature con- regulation by altering the set point of the hypothalamic trol mechanisms continually attempt to bring the body temperature control center. This effect is shown in Fig- temperature back to this set point level. ures 74- 8 and 74- 9. Feedback Gain for Body Temperature Control. As Figure 74- 8 demonstrates the effect of different skin discussed in Chapter 1, feedback gain is a measure of temperatures on the set point for sweating, showing that the effectiveness of a control system. In the case of body the set point increases as skin temperature decreases. temperature control, it is important for the internal core Thus, for the person represented in this figure, the hypo- temperature to change as little as possible, even though thalamic set point increased from 36.7°C when the skin the environmental temperature might change greatly temperature was higher than 33°C to a set point of 37.4°C from day to day or even hour to hour. The feedback gain when the skin temperature had fallen to 29°C. Therefore, of the temperature control system is equal to the ratio of when the skin temperature was high, sweating began at a the change in environmental temperature to the change lower hypothalamic temperature than when the skin tem- in body core temperature minus 1.0 (see Chapter 1 for perature was low. One can readily understand the value this formula). Experiments have shown that the body of such a system because it is important that sweating be temperature of humans changes about 1°C for each 25°- inhibited when the skin temperature is low; otherwise, to 30°C- change in environmental temperature. Therefore, the combined effect of low skin temperature and sweating the feedback gain of the total mechanism for body tem- could cause far too much loss of body heat. perature control averages about 27 (28/1.0 − 1.0 = 27), A similar effect occurs in shivering, as shown in Fig- which is an extremely high gain for a biological control ure 74- 9. That is, when the skin becomes cold, it drives system (the baroreceptor arterial pressure control system, the hypothalamic centers to the shivering threshold even by comparison, has a feedback gain of <2). when the hypothalamic temperature is still on the hot side of normal. Here
