Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


spinal cord, and intra- abdominal receptors still exist. These reflexes are extremely weak in comparison with Aside from the subconscious mechanisms for body tem- hypothalamic control of body temperature. perature control, the body has another temperature- In people with this condition, body temperature must control mechanism that is even more potent—behavioral be regulated principally by the patient’s psychic response control of temperature. to cold and hot sensations in the head region—that is, by Whenever the internal body temperature becomes too behavioral control of clothing and by moving into an ap- propriate warm or cold environment. high, signals from the temperature-c ontrolling areas in the brain give the person a psychic sensation of being overheated. Conversely, whenever the body becomes too cold, signals from the skin and probably also from some deep body recep- ABNORMALITIES OF BODY tors elicit the feeling of cold discomfort. Therefore, the person TEMPERATURE REGULATION makes appropriate environmental adjustments to re-e stablish comfort, such as moving into a heated room or wearing well- FEVER insulated clothing in freezing weather. Behavioral control of Fever, which means a body temperature above the usual temperature is the only really effective mechanism to main- range of normal, can be caused by abnormalities in the tain body heat control in severely cold environments. brain or by toxic substances that affect the temperature- regulating centers. Some causes of fever (and also of Local Skin Temperature Reflexes subnormal body temperatures) are presented in Figure 74- 10. They include bacterial or viral infections, brain When a person places a foot under a hot lamp and leaves tumors, and environmental conditions that may termi- it there for a short time, local vasodilation and mild local sweating occur. Conversely, placing the foot in cold water nate in heatstroke. causes local vasoconstriction and local cessation of sweat- Resetting the Hypothalamic Temperature- ing. These reactions are caused by local effects of tempera- Regulating Center in Febrile Diseases— ture directly on the blood vessels and also by local cord re- Effect of Pyrogens flexes conducted from skin receptors to the spinal cord and back to the same skin area and the sweat glands. The inten- Many proteins, breakdown products of proteins, and sity of these local effects is, in addition, controlled by the certain other substances, especially lipopolysaccharide central brain temperature controller, so their overall effect is toxins released from bacterial cell membranes, can cause proportional to the hypothalamic heat
