Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


controlled by the certain other substances, especially lipopolysaccharide central brain temperature controller, so their overall effect is toxins released from bacterial cell membranes, can cause proportional to the hypothalamic heat control signal times the set point of the hypothalamic thermostat to rise. Sub- the local signal. Such reflexes can help prevent excessive heat stances that cause this effect are called pyrogens. exchange from locally cooled or heated portions of the body. 909 )dnoces/seirolac( noitcudorp taeH UNIT XIII UNIT XIII Metabolism and Temperature Regulation Set point Several experiments have suggested that IL- 1 causes suddenly Setting of the thermostat 105 fever by first inducing formation of one of the prosta- raised to Actual body temperature 104 high value glandins, mainly prostaglandin E 2, or a similar substance, Crisis which acts in the hypothalamus to elicit the fever reaction. 103 When prostaglandin formation is blocked by drugs, the 102 Vasodilation fever is either completely abrogated or at least reduced. In Sweating fact, this may be the explanation for the manner in which 101 Chills: Set point aspirin reduces fever because aspirin impedes the forma- 1. Vasoconstriction suddenly 100 2. Piloerection reduced to tion of prostaglandins from arachidonic acid. Drugs such 3. Epinephrine low value as aspirin that reduce fever are called antipyretics. 99 secretion 4. Shivering Fever Caused by Brain Lesions. When a brain surgeon 98 0 1 2 3 4 5 operates in the region of the hypothalamus, severe fever Time (hours) almost always occurs; rarely, the opposite effect, hypother- mia, occurs, demonstrating both the potency of the hypo- Figure 74- 11. Effects of changing the set point of the hypothalamic temperature controller. thalamic mechanisms for body temperature control and the ease with which abnormalities of the hypothalamus can alter the set point of temperature control. Another Pyrogens released from toxic bacteria or those condition that frequently causes prolonged high tempera- released from degenerating body tissues cause fever dur- ture is compression of the hypothalamus by a brain tumor. ing disease conditions. When the set point of the hypo- thalamic temperature- regulating center becomes higher than normal, all the mechanisms for raising the body Characteristics of Febrile Conditions temperature are brought into play, including heat con- Chills. When the set point of the hypothalamic servation and increased heat production. Within a few temperature-c ontrol center is suddenly changed from the hours after the set point has been increased, the body normal
