Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the hypothalamic servation and increased heat production. Within a few temperature-c ontrol center is suddenly changed from the hours after the set point has been increased, the body normal level to higher than normal (as a result of tissue de- temperature also approaches this level, as shown in Fig- struction, pyrogenic substances, or dehydration), the body ure 74-1 1. temperature usually takes several hours to reach the new temperature set point. Mechanism of Action of Pyrogens in Causing Fever— Figure 74- 11 demonstrates the effect of suddenly in- Role of Cytokines. Experiments in animals have shown creasing the temperature set point to a level of 103°F. Be- that some pyrogens, when injected into the hypothala- cause the blood temperature is now less than the set point mus, can act directly and immediately on the hypotha- of the hypothalamic temperature controller, the usual re- lamic temperature- regulating center to increase its set sponses that cause elevation of body temperature occur. point. Other pyrogens function indirectly and may re- During this period, the person experiences chills and feels quire several hours of latency before causing their effects. extremely cold, even though his or her body temperature This is true of many of the bacterial pyrogens, especially may already be above normal. Also, the skin becomes cold the endotoxins from gram- negative bacteria. because of vasoconstriction and the person shivers. Chills can continue until the body temperature reaches the hy- When bacteria or breakdown products of bacteria are pothalamic set point of 103°F. Then the person no longer present in the tissues or in the blood, they are phago- experiences chills but instead feels neither cold nor hot. As cytized by the blood leukocytes, by tissue macrophages, long as the factor that is causing the higher set point of the and by large granular killer lymphocytes, as discussed in hypothalamic temperature controller is present, the body Chapter 34. All these cells digest the bacterial products temperature is regulated more or less in the normal man- and then release cytokines, a diverse group of peptide- ner, but at the high temperature set point level. signaling molecules involved in the innate and adaptive Crisis, or “Flush.” If the factor that is causing the high immune responses. One of the most important of these temperature is removed, the set point of the hypothalamic cytokines in causing fever is interleukin- 1 (IL- 1), also temperature controller
