Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


immune responses. One of the most important of these temperature is removed, the set point of the hypothalamic cytokines in causing fever is interleukin- 1 (IL- 1), also temperature controller will be reduced to a lower value— called leukocyte pyrogen or endogenous pyrogen. IL- 1 is perhaps even back to the normal level, as shown in Figure released from macrophages into the body fluids and, upon 74- 11. In this case, the body temperature is still 103°F, but reaching the hypothalamus, almost immediately activates the hypothalamus is attempting to regulate the temperature to 98.6°F. This situation is analogous to excessive heating the processes to produce fever, sometimes increasing the of the anterior hypothalamic- preoptic area, which causes body temperature a noticeable amount in only 8 to 10 intense sweating and the sudden development of hot skin minutes. As little as one ten-m illionth of a gram of endo- because of vasodilation everywhere. This sudden change of toxin lipopolysaccharide from bacteria, acting in concert events in a febrile state is known as the “crisis” or, more with the blood leukocytes, tissue macrophages, and killer appropriately, the “flush.” In the days before the advent of lymphocytes, can cause fever. The amount of IL-1 that is antibiotics, the crisis was always anxiously awaited because formed in response to lipopolysaccharide to cause fever is once this occurred, the doctor assumed that the patient’s only a few nanograms. temperature would soon begin falling. 910 )F°( erutarepmet ydoB Chapter 74 Body Temperature Regulation and Fever Heatstroke body temperature will have fallen to about 77°F. If warmed rapidly by the application of external heat, the person’s life The upper limit of air temperature that one can stand de- can often be saved. pends to a great extent on whether the air is dry or wet. Loss of Temperature Regulation at Low Temperatures. If the air is dry and sufficient convection air currents are flowing to promote rapid evaporation from the body, a per- As noted in Figure 74- 10, once the body temperature has son can withstand several hours of air temperature at 130°F. fallen below about 85°F, the ability of the hypothalamus Conversely, if the air is 100% humidified or if the body is in to regulate temperature is lost; it is greatly impaired even water, the body temperature begins to rise whenever the when the body temperature falls below about 94°F. Part environmental temperature rises
