Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


regulate temperature is lost; it is greatly impaired even water, the body temperature begins to rise whenever the when the body temperature falls below about 94°F. Part environmental temperature rises above about 94°F. If the of the reason for this diminished temperature regulation person is performing heavy work, the critical environmen- is that the rate of chemical heat production in each cell is tal temperature above which heatstroke is likely to occur depressed almost twofold for each 10°F decrease in body may be as low as 85°F to 90°F. temperature. Also, sleepiness develops (later followed by When the body temperature rises beyond a critical tem- coma), which depresses the activity of the central nervous perature, into the range of 105°F to 108°F, heatstroke is like- system heat control mechanisms and prevents shivering. ly to develop. The symptoms include dizziness, abdominal Frostbite. When the body is exposed to extremely low distress, sometimes accompanied by vomiting, sometimes temperatures, surface areas can freeze, which is a phenom- delirium, and eventually loss of consciousness if the body enon called frostbite. Frostbite occurs especially in the lobes temperature is not soon decreased. These symptoms are of the ears and in the digits of the hands and feet. If the often exacerbated by a degree of circulatory shock brought freeze has been sufficient to cause extensive formation of on by excessive loss of fluid and electrolytes in the sweat. ice crystals in the cells, permanent damage usually results, The hyperpyrexia is also exceedingly damaging to the such as permanent circulatory impairment and local tissue body tissues, especially the brain, and is responsible for damage. Gangrene often follows thawing, and the frostbit- many of the effects. In fact, even a few minutes of very high ten areas must be removed surgically. body temperature can sometimes be fatal. For this reason, Cold- Induced Vasodilation Is a Final Protection Against some authorities recommend immediate treatment of heat- Frostbite at Almost Freezing Temperatures. When the stroke by placing the person in a cold- water bath. Because temperature of tissues falls almost to freezing, the smooth a cold- water bath often induces uncontrollable shivering, muscle in the vascular wall becomes paralyzed because of with a considerable increase in the rate of heat produc- the cold, and sudden vasodilation occurs, often manifested tion, a muscle relaxant may be administered in some cases. by a flush of the skin. This mechanism helps prevent
