Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


heat produc- the cold, and sudden vasodilation occurs, often manifested tion, a muscle relaxant may be administered in some cases. by a flush of the skin. This mechanism helps prevent frost- Others have suggested that sponge or spray cooling of the bite by delivering warm blood to the skin. This mechanism skin along with blowing cool air over the moist skin may is far less developed in humans than in most animals that be more effective and more practical for rapidly decreasing live in the cold all the time. the body core temperature. Artificial Hypothermia. It is easy to decrease the tem- Harmful Effects of High Temperature. The pathologi- perature of a person by first administering a strong sedative cal findings in a person who dies of hyperpyrexia are local to depress the reactivity of the hypothalamic temperature hemorrhages and parenchymatous degeneration of cells controller and then cooling the person with ice or cooling throughout the entire body, but especially in the brain. blankets until the temperature falls. The temperature can Once neuronal cells are destroyed, they can never be re- then be maintained below 90°F for several days to a week placed. Also, damage to the liver, kidneys, and other organs or more by continual sprinkling of cool water or alcohol can often be severe enough that failure of one or more of on the body. Such artificial cooling has been used during these organs eventually causes death, but sometimes not heart surgery so that the heart can be stopped artificially until several days after the heatstroke occurs. for many minutes at a time. Cooling to this extent does not Acclimatization to Heat. It can be extremely important cause tissue damage, but it does slow the heart and greatly to acclimatize people to extreme heat. Examples of people depresses cell metabolism so that the body’s cells can sur- requiring acclimatization are soldiers on duty in the tropics vive 30 minutes to more than 1 hour without blood flow and miners working in the 2-m ile- deep gold mines of South during the surgical procedure. Africa, where the temperature approaches body tempera- ture and the humidity approaches 100%. A person exposed Bibliography to heat for several hours each day while performing a rea- sonably heavy workload will develop increased tolerance to Angilletta MJ Jr, Youngblood JP, Neel LK, VandenBrooks JM: The neuro- hot and humid conditions in 1 to 3
