Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Hoffstaetter LJ, Bagriantsev SN, Gracheva EO: TRPs: a molecular toolkit tebrates. Physiol Rev 97:623, 2017. for thermosensory adaptations. Pflugers Arch 470:745, 2018. Tan CL, Knight ZA: Regulation of body temperature by the nervous Leon LR, Bouchama A: Heat stroke. Compr Physiol 5:611, 2015. system. Neuron 98:31, 2018. Madden CJ, Morrison SF: Central nervous system circuits that control body temperature. Neurosci Lett 696:225, 2019. 912 CHAPTER 7 5 Introduction to Endocrinology COORDINATION OF BODY FUNCTIONS The endocrine hormones are carried by the circulatory BY CHEMICAL MESSENGERS system to cells throughout the body, including the ner- vous system in some cases, where they bind with recep- The multiple activities of the cells, tissues, and organs of tors and initiate many cell reactions. Some endocrine the body are coordinated by the interplay of several types hormones affect many different types of cells of the body; of chemical messenger systems: for example, growth hormone from the anterior pituitary 1. Neurotransmitters are released by axon terminals of gland causes growth in most parts of the body, and thy- neurons into the synaptic junctions and act locally roxine from the thyroid gland increases the rate of many to control nerve cell functions. chemical reactions in almost all the body’s cells. 2. Endocrine hormones are released by glands or spe- Other hormones affect mainly specific target tissues cialized cells into the circulating blood and influ- because these tissues have abundant receptors for the ence the function of target cells at another location hormone. For example, adrenocorticotropic hormone in the body. from the anterior pituitary gland specifically stimulates 3. Neuroendocrine hormones are secreted by neurons the adrenal cortex, causing it to secrete adrenocortical into the circulating blood and influence the func- hormones, and the ovarian hormones have their main tion of target cells at another location in the body. effects on the female sex organs and the secondary sexual 4. Paracrines are secreted by cells into the extracellu- characteristics of the female body. lar fluid and affect neighboring target cells of a dif- Figure 75- 1 shows the anatomical loci of the major ferent type. endocrine glands and endocrine tissues of the body, 5. Autocrines are secreted by cells into the extracellu- except for the placenta, which is an additional source of lar fluid and affect the function of the same cells that the sex hormones. Table 75- 1 provides an overview of produced them. the different hormone
