Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


an additional source of lar fluid and affect the function of the same cells that the sex hormones. Table 75- 1 provides an overview of produced them. the different hormone systems and their major actions. 6. Cytokines are peptides secreted by cells into the The multiple hormone systems play a key role in regu- extracellular fluid and can function as autocrines, lating almost all body functions, including metabolism, paracrines, or endocrine hormones. Examples of growth and development, water and electrolyte balance, cytokines include the interleukins and other lym- reproduction, and behavior. For example, without growth phokines that are secreted by helper cells and act on hormone, a person would have very short stature. With- other cells of the immune system (see Chapter 35). out thyroxine and triiodothyronine from the thyroid Cytokine hormones (e.g., leptin) produced by adi- gland, almost all the chemical reactions of the body would pocytes are sometimes called adipokines. become sluggish and the person would become sluggish In the next few chapters, we discuss mainly the endo- as well. Without insulin from the pancreas, the body’s crine and neuroendocrine hormone systems, keeping in cells could use little of the food carbohydrates for energy. mind that many of the body’s chemical messenger sys- And without the sex hormones, sexual development and tems interact with one another to maintain homeosta- sexual functions would be absent. sis. For example, the adrenal medullae and the pituitary gland secrete their hormones primarily in response to CHEMICAL STRUCTURE AND SYNTHESIS neural stimuli. The neuroendocrine cells, located in the OF HORMONES hypothalamus, have axons that terminate in the posterior pituitary gland and median eminence and secrete several Three general classes of hormones exist: neurohormones, including antidiuretic hormone, oxyto- 1. Proteins and polypeptides, including hormones se- cin, and hypophysiotropic hormones, which control the creted by the anterior and posterior pituitary gland, secretion of anterior pituitary hormones. the pancreas (insulin and glucagon), the p arathyroid 915 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction three amino acids (e.g., thyrotropin-r eleasing hormone) Hypothalamus to proteins with almost 200 amino acids (e.g., growth hor- mone and prolactin). In general, polypeptides with 100 or more amino acids are called proteins, and those with fewer than 100 amino acids are referred to as peptides. Pineal gland Pituitary gland Protein and peptide hormones are synthesized on the rough end of the endoplasmic reticulum of the different endocrine cells, in the same fashion
