Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to as peptides. Pineal gland Pituitary gland Protein and peptide hormones are synthesized on the rough end of the endoplasmic reticulum of the different endocrine cells, in the same fashion as most other pro- teins (Figure 75- 2). They are usually synthesized first as larger proteins that are not biologically active (preprohor- Parathyroid glands (behind thyroid gland) Thyroid gland mones) and are cleaved to form smaller prohormones in the endoplasmic reticulum. These prohormones are then Thymus gland transferred to the Golgi apparatus for packaging into secretory vesicles. In this process, enzymes in the vesicles cleave the prohormones to produce smaller, biologically active hormones and inactive fragments. The vesicles are stored within the cytoplasm, and many are bound to the cell membrane until their secretion is needed. Secretion of the hormones (as well as the inactive fragments) occurs when the secretory vesicles fuse with the cell membrane and the granular contents are extruded into the interstitial Stomach fluid or directly into the blood stream by exocytosis. Adrenal In many cases, the stimulus for exocytosis is increased glands cytosolic calcium concentration caused by depolarization Pancreas of the plasma membrane. In other cases, stimulation of Kidney an endocrine cell surface receptor causes increased cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and subsequently Adipose tissue activation of protein kinases that initiate secretion of the hormone. The peptide hormones are water soluble, allow- Small intestine ing them to enter the circulatory system easily, where they Ovaries are carried to their target tissues. (female) Steroid Hormones Are Usually Synthesized From Cholesterol and Are Not Stored. Steroid hormones have a chemical structure that is similar to cholesterol, and in most cases are synthesized from cholesterol. They are lipid soluble and consist of three cyclohexyl rings and one cyclo- Testes (male) pentyl ring combined into a single structure (Figure 75- 3). Although there is usually very little hormone stor- Figure 75- 1. Anatomical loci of the principal endocrine glands and age in steroid- producing endocrine cells, large stores of tissues of the body. cholesterol esters in cytoplasm vacuoles can be rapidly mobilized for steroid synthesis after a stimulus. Much of gland (parathyroid hormone), and many others (see the cholesterol in steroid- producing cells comes from the Table 75- 1). plasma, but there is also de novo synthesis of cholesterol 2. Steroids secreted by the adrenal cortex (cortisol and in steroid- producing cells. Because steroids are highly aldosterone), the ovaries (estrogen and
