Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


there is also de novo synthesis of cholesterol 2. Steroids secreted by the adrenal cortex (cortisol and in steroid- producing cells. Because steroids are highly aldosterone), the ovaries (estrogen and progester- lipid soluble, once they are synthesized, they can simply one), the testes (testosterone), and the placenta (es- diffuse across the cell membrane and enter the interstitial trogen and progesterone). fluid and then the blood. 3. Derivatives of the amino acid tyrosine, secreted by Amine Hormones Are Derived From Tyrosine. The the thyroid (thyroxine and triiodothyronine) and two groups of hormones derived from tyrosine, the thy- the adrenal medullae (epinephrine and norepineph- roid and the adrenal medullary hormones, are formed rine). There are no known polysaccharides or nu- by the actions of enzymes in the cytoplasmic compart- cleic acid hormones. ments of glandular cells. The thyroid hormones are syn- Polypeptide and Protein Hormones Are Stored in thesized and stored in the thyroid gland and incorporated Secretory Vesicles Until Needed. Most of the hormones into macromolecules of the protein thyroglobulin, which in the body are polypeptides and proteins. These hor- is stored in large follicles within the thyroid gland. Hor- mones range in size from small peptides with as few as mone secretion occurs when the amines are split from 916 Chapter 75 Introduction to Endocrinology Table 75- 1 Endocrine Glands, Hormones, and Their Functions and Structure Gland/Tissue Hormones Major Functions Chemical Structure Hypothalamus Thyrotropin- releasing Stimulates secretion of thyroid- stimulating Peptide (Chapter 76) hormone hormone and prolactin Corticotropin- releasing Causes release of adrenocorticotropic Peptide hormone hormone Growth hormone–releasing Causes release of growth hormone Peptide hormone Growth hormone inhibitory Inhibits release of growth hormone Peptide hormone (somatostatin) Gonadotropin- releasing Causes release of luteinizing hormone and Peptide hormone follicle- stimulating hormone Dopamine or prolactin- Inhibits release of prolactin Amine inhibiting factor Anterior pituitary Growth hormone Stimulates protein synthesis and overall Peptide (Chapter 76) growth of most cells and tissues Thyroid- stimulating Stimulates synthesis and secretion of thyroid Peptide hormone hormones (thyroxine and triiodothyronine) Adrenocorticotropic Stimulates synthesis and secretion of Peptide hormone adrenocortical hormones (cortisol, androgens, and aldosterone) Prolactin Promotes development of the female Peptide breasts and secretion of milk Follicle- stimulating Causes growth of follicles in the ovaries and Peptide hormone sperm maturation in Sertoli cells of testes Luteinizing hormone Stimulates testosterone synthesis in Leydig cells Peptide of testes; stimulates ovulation, formation of corpus luteum, and estrogen and progesterone synthesis in ovaries
