Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


intestinal absorption of calcium and Steroid bone mineralization Erythropoietin Increases erythrocyte production Peptide Heart Atrial natriuretic peptide Increases sodium excretion by kidneys, reduces Peptide (Chapter 22) blood pressure Stomach Gastrin Stimulates hydrogen chloride secretion by parietal Peptide (Chapter 65) cells Small intestine Secretin Stimulates pancreatic acinar cells to release Peptide (Chapter 65) bicarbonate and water Cholecystokinin Stimulates gallbladder contraction and release of Peptide pancreatic enzymes Adipocytes Leptin Inhibits appetite, stimulates thermogenesis Peptide (Chapter 72) Nucleus DNA CH OH CH OH 2 O 2 C O C O HC HO HO OH Transcription SSyynntthheessiiss O O Cortisol Aldosterone mRNA OH OH TTrraannssllaattiioonn Endoplasmic reticulum O HO Testosterone Estradiol Figure 75- 3. Chemical structures of several steroid hormones. PPaacckkaaggiinngg Golgi thyroglobulin, and the free hormones are then released apparatus into the blood stream. After entering the blood, most of the thyroid hormones combine with plasma proteins, es- Secretory SSttoorraaggee pecially thyroxine- binding globulin, which slowly releases vesicles the hormones to the target tissues. ↑ Ca2+ Epinephrine and norepinephrine are formed in the ↑ cAMP adrenal medulla, which normally secretes about four times more epinephrine than norepinephrine. Catechol- SSeeccrreettiioonn amines are taken up into preformed vesicles and stored Extracellular Stimulus until secreted. Similar to the protein hormones stored in fluid secretory granules, catecholamines are also released from Figure 75-2 . Synthesis and secretion of peptide hormones. The adrenal medullary cells by exocytosis. Once the catechol- stimulus for hormone secretion often involves changes in intracel- lular calcium or changes in cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) amines enter the circulation, they can exist in the plasma in the cell. in free form or in conjugation with other substances. 918 Chapter 75 Introduction to Endocrinology HORMONE SECRETION, TRANSPORT, feedback signals to the endocrine gland become power- AND CLEARANCE FROM THE BLOOD ful enough to slow further synthesis and secretion of the hormone. Hormone Secretion After a Stimulus and Dura- Surges of Hormones Can Occur With Positive tion of Action of Different Hormones. Some hor- Feedback. In a few cases, positive feedback occurs mones, such as norepinephrine and epinephrine, are when the biological action of the hormone causes addi- secreted within seconds after the gland is stimulat- tional secretion of the hormone. One example of posi- ed and may develop full action within another few tive feedback is the surge of luteinizing hormone (LH) seconds to minutes; the actions of other hormones, that occurs as a result of
