Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


may develop full action within another few tive feedback is the surge of luteinizing hormone (LH) seconds to minutes; the actions of other hormones, that occurs as a result of the stimulatory effect of es- such as thyroxine or growth hormone, may require trogen on the anterior pituitary before ovulation. The months for full effect. Thus, each of the different secreted LH then acts on the ovaries to stimulate addi- hormones has its own characteristic onset and dura- tional secretion of estrogen, which in turn causes more tion of action—each tailored to perform its specific secretion of LH. Eventually, LH reaches an appropriate control function. concentration and typical negative feedback control of Concentrations of Hormones in the Circulating hormone secretion is then exerted. Blood and Hormonal Secretion Rates. The concentra- Cyclical Variations Occur in Hormone Release. Su- tions of hormones required to control most metabolic perimposed on the negative and positive feedback and endocrine functions are incredibly small. Their con- control of hormone secretion are periodic variations centrations in the blood range from as little as 1 pico- in hormone release that are influenced by seasonal gram (which is one millionth of one millionth of a gram) changes, various stages of development and aging, the in each milliliter of blood up to at most a few micro- diurnal (daily) cycle, and sleep. For example, the secre- grams (a few millionths of a gram) per milliliter of blood. tion of growth hormone is markedly increased during Similarly, the rates of secretion of the various hormones the early period of sleep but is reduced during the later are extremely small, usually measured in micrograms or stages of sleep. In many cases, these cyclical variations milligrams per day. We shall see later in this chapter that in hormone secretion are due to changes in activity of highly specialized mechanisms are available in the target neural pathways involved in controlling hormone re- tissues that allow even these minute quantities of hor- lease. mones to exert powerful control over the physiological Oscillations of endocrine signaling are driven, in systems. part by circadian clocks. As discussed in Chapter 59 (see Figure 59-8 ), the suprachiasmatic nucleus FEEDBACK CONTROL OF HORMONE (SCN) of the hypothalamus serves as a “master clock” SECRETION that controls rhythmic patterns of biological clocks in many parts of the body, including neuroendocrine Negative Feedback Prevents Overactivity of Horm- cells and endocrine glands. There
