Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a “master clock” SECRETION that controls rhythmic patterns of biological clocks in many parts of the body, including neuroendocrine Negative Feedback Prevents Overactivity of Horm- cells and endocrine glands. There is also evidence one Systems. Although the plasma concentrations of for local clock control in peripheral endocrine tis- many hormones fluctuate in response to various stim- sues, such as the adrenal gland and pancreas, which uli that occur throughout the day, all hormones studied have cyclical changes in their sensitivity to various thus far appear to be closely controlled. In most cases, signals. this control is exerted through negative feedback mecha- Cyclical changes in tissue responsiveness and fluc- nisms (described in Chapter 1) that ensure a proper level tuations in hormone concentrations provide impor- of hormone activity at the target tissue. After a stimulus tant mechanisms for the body to anticipate and adapt causes release of the hormone, conditions or products to the dramatic changes in stresses and demands that resulting from the action of the hormone tend to sup- normally occur over the course of a day— ranging from press its further release. In other words, the hormone restful sleep to eating meals and high levels of men- (or one of its products) has a negative feedback effect tal and physical activity. Rhythmic changes in female to prevent oversecretion of the hormone or overactiv- sex hormones that occur with an average 28- day cycle ity at the target tissue. Feedback regulation of hormones are also essential for reproduction, as discussed in can occur at all levels, including gene transcription and Chapter 82. translation steps involved in the synthesis of hormones and steps involved in processing hormones or releasing TRANSPORT OF HORMONES IN THE stored hormones. BLOOD The controlled variable is sometimes the degree of Water- soluble hormones (peptides and catecholamines) activity of the target tissue rather than the synthesis or are dissolved in the plasma and transported from their secretory rates of the hormone. Therefore, only when sites of synthesis to target tissues, where they diffuse out the target tissue activity rises to an appropriate level will 919 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction of the capillaries, into the interstitial fluid, and ultimately diseased because these hormones are conjugated mainly to target cells. in the liver and then “cleared” into the bile. Steroid and thyroid hormones, in contrast, circu- Hormones are sometimes degraded at their target cells late
