Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


conjugated mainly to target cells. in the liver and then “cleared” into the bile. Steroid and thyroid hormones, in contrast, circu- Hormones are sometimes degraded at their target cells late in the blood while being mainly bound to plasma by enzymatic processes that cause endocytosis of the cell proteins. Usually less than 10% of steroid or thyroid membrane hormone- receptor complex; the hormone is hormones in the plasma exist free in solution. For then metabolized in the cell, and the receptors are usually example, more than 99% of the thyroxine in the blood recycled back to the cell membrane. is bound to plasma proteins. However, protein- bound Most of the peptide hormones and catecholamines are hormones cannot easily diffuse across the capillaries water soluble and circulate freely in the blood. They are and gain access to their target cells and are therefore usually degraded by enzymes in the blood and tissues and biologically inactive until they dissociate from plasma rapidly excreted by the kidneys and liver, thus remaining proteins. in the blood for only a short time. For example, the half- The relatively large amounts of hormones bound to life of angiotensin II circulating in the blood is less than a proteins serve as reservoirs, replenishing the concen- minute. tration of free hormones when they are bound to target Hormones that are bound to plasma proteins are receptors or lost from the circulation. Binding of hor- cleared from the blood at much slower rates and may mones to plasma proteins greatly slows their clearance remain in the circulation for several hours or even days. from the plasma. The half- life of adrenal steroids in the circulation, for example, ranges between 20 and 100 minutes, whereas “Clearance” of Hormones From the Blood. Two fac- the half- life of the protein-b ound thyroid hormones may tors can increase or decrease the concentration of a hor- be as long as 1 to 6 days. mone in the blood: (1) the rate of hormone secretion into the blood; (2) the rate of removal of the hormone from the MECHANISMS OF ACTION OF blood, which is called the metabolic clearance rate and is HORMONES usually expressed in terms of the number of milliliters of plasma cleared of the hormone per minute. To calculate HORMONE RECEPTORS AND THEIR this clearance rate, one measures (1) the rate of disappear- ACTIVATION ance of the hormone from the plasma
