Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cleared of the hormone per minute. To calculate HORMONE RECEPTORS AND THEIR this clearance rate, one measures (1) the rate of disappear- ACTIVATION ance of the hormone from the plasma (e.g., nanograms per minute) and (2) the plasma concentration of the hor- The first step of a hormone’s action is to bind to specific mone (e.g., nanograms per milliliter of plasma). Then, the receptors at the target cell. Cells that lack receptors for the metabolic clearance rate is calculated with use of the fol- hormones do not respond. Receptors for some hormones lowing formula: are located on the target cell membrane, whereas other Metabolic clearance rate hormone receptors are located in the cytoplasm or the =Rate of disappearance of hormone ffrom nucleus. When the hormone combines with its receptor, the plasma/Concentration of hormone this action usually initiates a cascade of reactions in the cell, with each stage becoming more powerfully activated The usual procedure for making this measurement so that even small concentrations of the hormone can is as follows. A purified solution of the hormone to be have a large effect. measured is tagged with a radioactive substance. Then Hormone receptors are large proteins, and each cell the radioactive hormone is infused at a constant rate into that is to be stimulated usually has some 2000 to 100,000 the blood stream until the radioactive concentration in receptors. Also, each receptor is usually highly specific for the plasma becomes steady. At this time, the disappear- a single hormone, which determines the type of hormone ance rate of the radioactive hormone from the plasma that will act on a particular tissue. The target tissues that equals the rate at which it is infused, which gives one are affected by a hormone are those that contain its spe- the rate of disappearance. At the same time, the plasma cific receptors. concentration of the radioactive hormone is measured The locations for the different types of hormone recep- using a standard radioactive counting procedure. Then, tors are generally the following: using the formula just cited, the metabolic clearance rate 1. In or on the surface of the cell membrane. The mem- is calculated. brane receptors are specific mostly for the protein, Hormones are “cleared” from the plasma in several peptide, and catecholamine hormones. ways, including (1) metabolic destruction by the tissues, 2. In the cell cytoplasm. The primary receptors for the (2) binding with
