Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


from the plasma in several peptide, and catecholamine hormones. ways, including (1) metabolic destruction by the tissues, 2. In the cell cytoplasm. The primary receptors for the (2) binding with the tissues, (3) excretion by the liver into different steroid hormones are found mainly in the the bile, and (4) excretion by the kidneys into the urine. cytoplasm. For certain hormones, a decreased metabolic clearance 3. In the cell nucleus. The receptors for the thyroid rate may cause an excessively high concentration of the hormones are found in the nucleus and are believed hormone in the circulating body fluids. For example, to be located in direct association with one or more excessive steroid hormones accumulate when the liver is of the chromosomes. 920 Chapter 75 Introduction to Endocrinology The Number and Sensitivity of Hormone Receptors Ion Channel–Linked Receptors. Virtually all the neu- Are Regulated. The number of receptors in a target cell rotransmitter substances, such as acetylcholine and nor- usually does not remain constant from day to day or even epinephrine, combine with receptors in the postsynap- from minute to minute. Receptor proteins are often inac- tic membrane. This combination almost always causes a tivated or destroyed during the course of their function, change in the structure of the receptor, usually opening or and at other times they are reactivated or new ones are closing a channel for one or more ions. Some of these ion manufactured by the cell. For example, increased hor- channel–linked receptors open (or close) channels for so- mone concentration and increased binding with its target dium ions, others for potassium ions, others for calcium cell receptors sometimes cause the number of active re- ions, and so forth. The altered movement of these ions ceptors to decrease. This down- regulation of the recep- through the channels causes the subsequent effects on the tors can occur as a result of (1) inactivation of some of postsynaptic cells. Although a few hormones may exert the receptor molecules; (2) inactivation of some of the some of their actions through activation of ion channel intracellular protein signaling molecules; (3) temporary receptors, most hormones that open or close ions chan- sequestration of the receptor to the inside of the cell, away nels do this indirectly by coupling with G protein–linked from the site of action of hormones that interact with cell or enzyme- linked receptors, as discussed next. membrane receptors; (4)
