Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


nels do this indirectly by coupling with G protein–linked from the site of action of hormones that interact with cell or enzyme- linked receptors, as discussed next. membrane receptors; (4) destruction of the receptors by G Protein–Linked Hormone Receptors. Many hor- lysosomes after they are internalized; or (5) decreased mones activate receptors that indirectly regulate the ac- production of the receptors. In each case, receptor down- tivity of target proteins (e.g., enzymes or ion channels) by regulation decreases the target tissue’s responsiveness to coupling with groups of cell membrane proteins called the hormone. heterotrimeric guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-b inding Some hormones cause up- regulation of receptors proteins (G proteins) (Figure 75- 4). All of the known G and intracellular signaling proteins; that is, the stimulat- protein–coupled receptors (∼1000) have seven trans- ing hormone induces greater than normal formation of membrane segments that loop in and out of the cell mem- receptor or intracellular signaling molecules by the target brane. Some parts of the receptor that protrude into the cell or greater availability of the receptor for interaction cell cytoplasm (especially the cytoplasmic tail of the re- with the hormone. When up- regulation occurs, the target ceptor) are coupled to G proteins that include three (i.e., tissue becomes progressively more sensitive to the stimu- trimeric) parts—the α, β, and γ subunits. When the ligand lating effects of the hormone. (hormone) binds to the extracellular part of the receptor, INTRACELLULAR SIGNALING AFTER a conformational change occurs in the receptor that acti- HORMONE RECEPTOR ACTIVATION vates the G proteins and induces intracellular signals that either (1) open or close cell membrane ion channels, (2) Almost without exception, a hormone affects its target change the activity of an enzyme in the cytoplasm of the tissues by first forming a hormone- receptor complex. For- cell, or (3) activate gene transcription. mation of this complex alters the function of the receptor, The trimeric G proteins are named for their ability to and the activated receptor initiates the hormonal effects. bind guanosine nucleotides. In their inactive state, the To explain this process, let us give a few examples of the α, β, and γ subunits of G proteins form a complex that different types of interactions. binds guanosine diphosphate (GDP) on the α subunit. Hormone Receptor Extracellular fluid γ γ Cytoplasm β α γ α β α GDP β G protein GTP GTP-activated (inactive) target protein G protein
