Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


diphosphate (GDP) on the α subunit. Hormone Receptor Extracellular fluid γ γ Cytoplasm β α γ α β α GDP β G protein GTP GTP-activated (inactive) target protein G protein (enzyme) (active) Figure 75- 4. Mechanism of activation of a G protein–coupled receptor. When the hormone activates the receptor, the inactive α, β, and γ G protein complex associates with the receptor and is activated, with an exchange of guanosine triphosphate (GTP) for guanosine diphosphate (GDP). This process causes the α subunit (to which the GTP is bound) to dissociate from the β and γ subunits of the G protein and to interact with membrane- bound target proteins (enzymes) that initiate intracellular signals. 921 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction When the receptor is activated, it undergoes a conforma- many physiological effects, but it is especially important tional change that causes the GDP-b ound trimeric G pro- in regulating appetite and energy balance, as discussed tein to associate with the cytoplasmic part of the receptor in Chapter 72. The leptin receptor is a member of a large and to exchange GDP for GTP. Displacement of GDP by family of cytokine receptors that do not themselves contain GTP causes the α subunit to dissociate from the trimeric enzymatic activity but signal through associated enzymes. complex and to associate with other intracellular signal- In the case of the leptin receptor, one of the signaling path- ing proteins; these proteins, in turn, alter the activity of ways occurs through a tyrosine kinase of the janus kinase ion channels or intracellular enzymes such as adenylyl (JAK) family, JAK2. The leptin receptor exists as a dimer cyclase or phospholipase C, which alter cell function. (i.e., in two parts), and binding of leptin to the extracel- The signaling event is terminated when the hormone lular part of the receptor alters its conformation, enabling is removed and the α subunit inactivates itself by convert- phosphorylation and activation of the intracellular associ- ing its bound GTP to GDP; then the α subunit once again ated JAK2 molecules. The activated JAK2 molecules then combines with the β and γ subunits to form an inactive, phosphorylate other tyrosine residues within the leptin membrane- bound trimeric G protein. Additional details receptor–JAK2 complex to mediate intracellular signaling. of G protein signaling are discussed in Chapter 46 and The intracellular signals include phosphorylation of signal shown in Figure 46- 7. transducer and
