Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


receptor–JAK2 complex to mediate intracellular signaling. of G protein signaling are discussed in Chapter 46 and The intracellular signals include phosphorylation of signal shown in Figure 46- 7. transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) proteins, Some hormones are coupled to inhibitory G proteins which activates transcription by leptin target genes to (denoted as G proteins), whereas others are coupled to initiate protein synthesis. Phosphorylation of JAK2 also i stimulatory G proteins (denoted as G proteins). Thus, leads to activation of other intracellular enzyme pathways s depending on the coupling of a hormone receptor to an such as mitogen- activated protein kinases (MAPK) and inhibitory or stimulatory G protein, a hormone can either phosphatidylinositol 3- kinase (PI3K). Some of the effects increase or decrease the activity of intracellular enzymes. of leptin occur rapidly as a result of activation of these This complex system of cell membrane G proteins pro- intracellular enzymes, whereas other actions occur more vides a vast array of potential cell responses to different slowly and require synthesis of new proteins. hormones in the various target tissues of the body. Another example, one widely used in hormonal con- trol of cell function, is for the hormone to bind with a Enzyme- Linked Hormone Receptors. Some receptors, when activated, function directly as enzymes or are closely associated with enzymes that they activate. These enzyme- Leptin linked receptors are proteins that pass through the mem- brane only once, in contrast to the seven- transmembrane G protein–coupled receptors. Enzyme-l inked receptors Leptin receptor have their hormone- binding site on the outside of the cell P JAK2 Y Y JAK2 P membrane and their catalytic or enzyme-b inding site on the inside. When the hormone binds to the extracellular part of the receptor, an enzyme immediately inside the Activation STAT3 P Y Y P STAT3 cell membrane is activated (or occasionally inactivated). of enzymes P Y Y P Although many enzyme- linked receptors have intrinsic P enzyme activity, others rely on enzymes that are closely T3 associated with the receptor to produce changes in cell Physiological STA TAT3 S function. effects P Table 75- 2 lists a few of the many peptide growth fac- tors, cytokines, and hormones that use the enzyme-l inked STAT3 P receptor tyrosine kinases for cell signaling. One example Translation P STAT3 of an enzyme-l inked receptor is the leptin receptor (Figure 75- 5). Leptin is a hormone secreted
