Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


STAT3 P receptor tyrosine kinases for cell signaling. One example Translation P STAT3 of an enzyme-l inked receptor is the leptin receptor (Figure 75- 5). Leptin is a hormone secreted by fat cells and has Target gene Table 75- 2 Hormones That Use Receptor Tyrosine mRNA Kinase Signaling Fibroblast growth factor Figure 75- 5. An enzyme- linked receptor—the leptin receptor. The re- Growth hormone ceptor exists as a homodimer (two identical parts), and leptin binds to Hepatocyte growth factor the extracellular part of the receptor, causing phosphorylation (P) and Insulin activation of the intracellular associated janus kinase 2 (JAK2). This Insulin- like growth factor- 1 mechanism causes phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator Leptin of transcription (STAT) proteins, which then activates the transcription Prolactin of target genes and the synthesis of proteins. JAK2 phosphorylation Vascular endothelial growth factor also activates several other enzyme systems that mediate some of the more rapid effects of leptin. Y, Specific tyrosine phosphorylation sites. 922 Chapter 75 Introduction to Endocrinology special transmembrane receptor, which then becomes regulate are different in the various tissues. An intracel- the activated enzyme adenylyl cyclase at the end that pro- lular receptor can activate a gene response only if the trudes to the interior of the cell. This cyclase catalyzes appropriate combination of gene regulatory proteins is the formation of cAMP, which has a multitude of effects present, and many of these regulatory proteins are tis- inside the cell to control cell activity, as discussed later. sue specific. Thus, the responses of different tissues to a cAMP is called a second messenger because it is not the hormone are determined not only by the specificity of hormone itself that directly institutes the intracellular the receptors but also by the expression of genes that the changes; instead, the cAMP serves as a second messenger receptor regulates. to cause these effects. SECOND MESSENGER MECHANISMS FOR For a few peptide hormones, such as atrial natriuretic MEDIATING INTRACELLULAR HORMONAL peptide, cyclic guanosine monophosphate, which is only FUNCTIONS slightly different from cAMP, serves in a similar manner as a second messenger. We noted earlier that one way that hormones exert intra- Intracellular Hormone Receptors and Activation of cellular actions is to stimulate formation of the second Genes. Several hormones, including adrenal and gonadal messenger cAMP inside the cell membrane. The cAMP steroid hormones, thyroid hormones, retinoid hormones, then causes subsequent intracellular effects of the hor-
