Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


second Genes. Several hormones, including adrenal and gonadal messenger cAMP inside the cell membrane. The cAMP steroid hormones, thyroid hormones, retinoid hormones, then causes subsequent intracellular effects of the hor- and vitamin D, bind with protein receptors inside the cell mone. Thus, the only direct effect that the hormone has rather than in the cell membrane. Because these hor- on the cell is to activate a single type of membrane recep- mones are lipid soluble, they readily cross the cell mem- tor. The second messenger does the rest. brane and interact with receptors in the cytoplasm or cAMP is not the only second messenger used by the nucleus. The activated hormone- receptor complex then different hormones. Two other especially important ones binds with a specific regulatory (promoter) sequence of are (1) calcium ions and associated calmodulin and (2) the DNA called the hormone response element, and in products of membrane phospholipid breakdown. In some this manner either activates or represses transcription of cases, a hormone may stimulate more than one second specific genes and formation of messenger RNA (mRNA; messenger system in the same target tissue. Figure 75- 6). Therefore, minutes, hours, or even days af- Adenylyl Cyclase–cAMP Second ter the hormone has entered the cell, newly formed pro- Messenger System teins appear in the cell and become the controllers of new or altered cellular functions. Table 75- 3 shows a few of the many hormones that use Many different tissues have identical intracellular the adenylyl cyclase–cAMP mechanism to stimulate hormone receptors, but the genes that the receptors their target tissues, and Figure 75- 7 shows the adenylyl cyclase–cAMP second messenger system. Binding of the LLiippoopphhiilliicc hhoorrmmoonnee EExxttrraacceelllluullaarr fflluuiidd DDiiffffuussiioonn NNuucclleeuuss TTaarrggeett cceellll PPrrootteeiinnss DDNNAA NNuucclleeaarr rreecceeppttoorr RRiibboossoommee CCyyttooppllaassmmiicc mmRRNNAA rreecceeppttoorr HHoorrmmoonnee rreecceeppttoorr HHoorrmmoonnee mmRRNNAA ccoommpplleexx rreessppoonnssee eelleemmeenntt NNuucclleeaarr eennvveellooppee NNuucclleeaarr ppoorree Figure 75- 6. Mechanisms of interaction of lipophilic hormones, such as steroids, with intracellular receptors in target cells. After the hormone binds to the receptor in the cytoplasm or in the nucleus, the hormone-r eceptor complex binds to the hormone response element (promoter) on the DNA. This action either activates or inhibits gene transcription, formation of messenger RNA (mRNA), and protein synthesis. 923 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Table 75- 3 Hormones That Use the Adenylyl Cyclase– Table 75- 4 Hormones That Use the Phospholipase C cAMP Second Messenger System Second Messenger System Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)
