Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


kinase intracellular chemicals, causing muscle contraction or relaxation, initiating secretion by the cells, and altering Protein – PO + ADP Protein + ATP 4 cell permeability. Thus, a thyroid cell stimulated by cAMP forms the Cell’s response metabolic hormones thyroxine and triiodothyronine, Figure 75- 7. The cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) mecha- whereas the same cAMP in an adrenocortical cell causes nism by which many hormones exert their control of cell function. secretion of the adrenocortical steroid hormones. In ADP, Adenosine diphosphate; ATP, adenosine triphosphate; GTP, some epithelial cells of the distal and collecting tubules of guanosine triphosphate. the kidney, cAMP increases their permeability to water. Cell Membrane Phospholipid Second hormones with the receptor allows coupling of the recep- Messenger System tor to a G protein. If the G protein stimulates the adenylyl cyclase–cAMP system, it is called a G protein, denoting Some hormones activate transmembrane receptors that s a stimulatory G protein. Stimulation of adenylyl cyclase, activate the enzyme phospholipase C attached to the a membrane- bound enzyme, by the G protein then cat- inside projections of the receptors (Table 75- 4). This s alyzes the conversion of a small amount of cytoplasmic enzyme catalyzes the breakdown of some phospholipids adenosine triphosphate into cAMP inside the cell. This in the cell membrane, especially phosphatidylinositol bi- then activates cAMP- dependent protein kinase, which phosphate (PIP 2), into two different second messenger phosphorylates specific cell proteins, triggering biochem- products: inositol triphosphate (IP 3) and diacylglycerol ical reactions that ultimately lead to the cell’s response to (DAG). The IP 3 mobilizes calcium ions from mitochon- the hormone. dria and the endoplasmic reticulum, and the calcium ions 924 Chapter 75 Introduction to Endocrinology which acts directly on the myosin of smooth muscle to Peptide cause smooth muscle contraction (see Figure 8- 3). hormone The normal calcium ion concentration in most cells of the body is 10−8 to 10−7 mol/L, which is not enough to acti- Extracellular fluid vate the calmodulin system. However, when the calcium Receptor ion concentration rises to 10−6 to 10−5 mol/L, enough binding occurs to cause all the intracellular actions of calmodulin. This is almost exactly the same amount of calcium ion change in skeletal muscle that is required to G protein activate troponin C, which causes skeletal muscle con- Cell membrane traction, as explained in Chapter 7. It is interesting that troponin C is similar to calmodulin in both function
