Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


protein activate troponin C, which causes skeletal muscle con- Cell membrane traction, as explained in Chapter 7. It is interesting that troponin C is similar to calmodulin in both function and Phospholipase C protein structure. DAG + IP PIP 3 2 HORMONES THAT ACT MAINLY ON THE GENETIC MACHINERY OF THE CELL Cytoplasm Active Inactive Steroid Hormones Increase Protein protein protein Synthesis kinase C kinase C Another means by which hormones act, especially steroid hormones, is to cause protein synthesis in target cells. Protein – PO Protein Ca2+ 4 These proteins then function as enzymes, transport pro- Endoplasmic reticulum teins, or structural proteins, which in turn provide other Cell’s response Cell’s response functions of the cells. The sequence of events in steroid function is essen- Figure 75- 8. The cell membrane phospholipid second messenger tially the following (see Figure 75- 6): system by which some hormones exert their control of cell function. 1. The steroid hormone diffuses across the cell mem- DAG, Diacylglycerol; IP , inositol triphosphate; PIP , phosphatidylino- 3 2 sitol biphosphate. brane and enters the cytoplasm of the cell, where it binds with a specific receptor protein. 2. The combined receptor protein–hormone then dif- then have their own second messenger effects, such as fuses into or is transported into the nucleus. smooth muscle contraction and changes in cell secretion. 3. The combination binds at specific points on the DAG, the other lipid second messenger, activates the DNA strands in the chromosomes, which activates enzyme protein kinase C, which then phosphorylates a the transcription process of specific genes to form large number of proteins, leading to the cell’s response mRNA. (Figure 75- 8). In addition to these effects, the lipid por- 4. The mRNA diffuses into the cytoplasm, where it tion of DAG is arachidonic acid, which is the precursor promotes the translation process at the ribosomes for the prostaglandins and other local hormones that to form new proteins. cause multiple effects in tissues throughout the body. To give an example, aldosterone, one of the hormones Calcium- Calmodulin Second Messenger secreted by the adrenal cortex, enters the cytoplasm of System renal tubular cells, which contain a specific receptor pro- tein often called the mineralocorticoid receptor. Therefore, Another second messenger system operates in response in these cells, the sequence of events cited earlier ensues. to entry of calcium into the cells. Calcium entry may be After about 45 minutes,
