Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


messenger system operates in response in these cells, the sequence of events cited earlier ensues. to entry of calcium into the cells. Calcium entry may be After about 45 minutes, proteins begin to appear in the initiated by (1) changes in membrane potential that open renal tubular cells and promote sodium reabsorption from calcium channels or (2) a hormone interacting with mem- the tubules and potassium secretion into the tubules. Thus, brane receptors that open calcium channels. the full action of the steroid hormone is characteristically Upon entering a cell, calcium ions bind with the pro- delayed for at least 45 minutes—up to several hours or even tein calmodulin. This protein has four calcium sites, and days. This action is in marked contrast to the rapid actions when three or four of these sites have become bound with of some of the peptide and amino acid–derived hormones, calcium, the calmodulin changes its shape and initiates such as vasopressin and norepinephrine. multiple effects inside the cell, including activation or inhibition of protein kinases. Activation of calmodulin- Thyroid Hormones Increase Gene dependent protein kinases causes, via phosphorylation, Transcription in the Cell Nucleus activation or inhibition of proteins involved in the cell’s response to the hormone. For example, one specific func- The thyroid hormones thyroxine and triiodothyronine cause tion of calmodulin is to activate myosin light chain kinase, increased transcription by specific genes in the nucleus. To 925 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction accomplish this increased transcription, these hormones 100 first bind directly with receptor proteins in the nucleus, as 90 discussed in more detail in Chapter 77 (see Figure 77- 5); 80 these receptors are activated transcription factors located within the chromosomal complex, and they control the 70 function of the gene promoters, as explained in Chapter 3. 60 The following two features of thyroid hormone func- tion in the nucleus are important: 50 1. They activate the genetic mechanisms for synthesiz- 40 ing many types of intracellular proteins—probably 30 100 or more. Many of these intracellular proteins are enzymes that promote enhanced intracellular 20 metabolic activity in virtually all cells of the body. 10 2. Once bound to the intranuclear receptors, the thy- roid hormones can continue to express their control 0 2 4 8 16 32 64 128 functions for days or even weeks. Aldosterone concentration in test sample (ng/dl) Measurement of Hormone Concentrations in the Figure 75-
