Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


their control 0 2 4 8 16 32 64 128 functions for days or even weeks. Aldosterone concentration in test sample (ng/dl) Measurement of Hormone Concentrations in the Figure 75- 9. Standard curve for radioimmunoassay of aldosterone. Blood (Courtesy Dr. Manis Smith.) Most hormones are present in the blood in extremely min- ute quantities; some concentrations are as low as one bil- Fourth, to make the assay highly quantitative, the radio- lionth of a milligram (1 picogram) per milliliter. Therefore, immunoassay procedure is also performed for “standard” it was difficult to measure these concentrations by the usual solutions of untagged hormone at several concentration chemical means. However, an extremely sensitive method, levels. Then a “standard curve” is plotted, as shown in Fig- called radioimmunoassay, was developed by Rosalyn Yalow ure 75- 9. By comparing the radioactive counts recorded and Solomon Berson in 1959 and revolutionized the meas- from the “unknown” assay procedures with the standard urement of hormones, their precursors, and their metabolic curve, one can determine within an error of 10% to 15%, end products. More recently, additional methods, such as the concentration of the hormone in the “unknown” as- enzyme-l inked immunosorbent assays, have been developed sayed fluid. As little as billionths or even trillionths of a for accurate, high- throughput measurements of hormones. gram of hormone can often be assayed in this way. Radioimmunoassay Enzyme- Linked Immunosorbent Assay The method of performing radioimmunoassay is as follows. Enzyme- linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) can be First, an antibody that is highly specific for the hormone to used to measure almost any protein, including hormones. be measured is produced. This test combines the specificity of antibodies with the Second, a small quantity of this antibody is (1) mixed sensitivity of simple enzyme assays. Figure 75- 10 shows with a quantity of fluid from the animal containing the hor- the basic elements of this method, which is often per- mone to be measured and (2) mixed simultaneously with formed on plastic plates that each have 96 small wells. Each an appropriate amount of purified standard hormone that well is coated with an antibody (AB ) that is specific for the 1 has been tagged with a radioactive isotope. However, one hormone being assayed. Samples or standards are added specific condition must be met. There must be too little an- to each of the wells, followed by a second antibody (AB )
