Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


being assayed. Samples or standards are added specific condition must be met. There must be too little an- to each of the wells, followed by a second antibody (AB ) 2 tibody to bind completely both the radioactively tagged hor- that is also specific for the hormone but binds to a different mone and the hormone in the fluid to be assayed. Therefore, site of the hormone molecule. A third antibody (AB ) that 3 the natural hormone in the assay fluid and the radioactive is added recognizes AB and is coupled to an enzyme that 2 standard hormone compete for binding sites of the antibody. converts a suitable substrate to a product that can be eas- In the process of competing, the quantity of each of the two ily detected by colorimetric or fluorescent optical methods. hormones, the natural and the radioactive, that binds is pro- Because each molecule of enzyme catalyzes the forma- portional to its concentration in the assay fluid. tion of many thousands of product molecules, even small Third, after binding has reached equilibrium, the antibody- amounts of hormone molecules can be detected. In con- hormone complex is separated from the remainder of the so- trast to competitive radioimmunoassay methods, ELISA lution, and the quantity of radioactive hormone bound in this methods use excess antibodies so that all hormone mole- complex is measured by radioactive counting techniques. If cules are captured in antibody-h ormone complexes. There- a large amount of radioactive hormone has bound with the fore, the amount of hormone present in the sample or in the antibody, it is clear that there was only a small amount of natu- standard is proportional to the amount of product formed. ral hormone to compete with the radioactive hormone, and The ELISA method has become widely used in clini- therefore the concentration of the natural hormone in the as- cal and research laboratories because (1) it does not use sayed fluid was small. Conversely, if only a small amount of ra- radioactive isotopes, (2) much of the assay can be automat- dioactive hormone has bound, it is clear that there was a large ed using 96- well plates, and (3) it has proved to be a cost- amount of natural hormone to compete for the binding sites. effective and accurate method for assessing hormone levels. 926 htiw dnuob ydobitna fo tnecreP enoretsodla evitcaoidar Chapter 75 Introduction to
