Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Oxytocin helps express milk from the glands of the and much more functional in some animals. breast to the nipples during suckling and helps in de- Embryologically, the two portions of the pituitary origi- livery of the baby at the end of gestation. nate from different sources—the anterior pituitary from Rathke’s pouch, which is an embryonic invagination of the The Anterior Pituitary Gland Contains Several pharyngeal epithelium, and the posterior pituitary from a Different Cell Types That Synthesize and Secrete neural tissue outgrowth from the hypothalamus. The origin Hormones. Usually, there is one cell type for each ma- of the anterior pituitary from the pharyngeal epithelium jor hormone formed in the anterior pituitary gland. With explains the epithelioid nature of its cells, and the origin of the posterior pituitary from neural tissue explains the presence of large numbers of glial- type cells in this gland. Hypothalamus Six major peptide hormones plus several other hor- mones of lesser known importance are secreted by the Optic chiasm anterior pituitary, and two important peptide hormones are secreted by the posterior pituitary. The hormones of the anterior pituitary play major roles in the control of metabolic functions throughout the Mammillary body body, as shown in Figure 76- 2. • Growth hormone promotes growth of the entire Hypophysial stalk body by affecting protein formation, cell multiplica- tion, and cell differentiation. Anterior pituitary Posterior pituitary • Adrenocorticotropic hormone (corticotropin) con- trols the secretion of some of the adrenocortical hor- mones, which affect metabolism of glucose, proteins, and fats. Pars intermedia • Thyroid- stimulating hormone (thyrotropin) controls the secretion rate of thyroxine and triiodothyronine Figure 76- 1. Pituitary gland. 929 These proofs may contain color figures. Those figures may print black and white in the final printed book if a color print product has not been planned. The color figures will appear in color in all electronic versions of this book. UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Gamma Alpha Epsilon ( ε ) Delta ( δ ) ( γ ) cell Sinusoid (α ) cell acidophil cell basophil cell Thyroid gland Increases blood glucose level ACH Corticotropin Promotes secretion Anterior of insulin pituitary Adrenal cortex gland Follicle stimulating Pancreas Luteinizing Ovary Beta ( β ) cell Figure 76- 3. Cellular structure of the anterior pituitary gland. (Modi- Prolactin Mammary fied from Guyton AC: Physiology of the Human Body, 6th ed. Phila- gland delphia: Saunders College Publishing,
