Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Figure 76- 3. Cellular structure of the anterior pituitary gland. (Modi- Prolactin Mammary fied from Guyton AC: Physiology of the Human Body, 6th ed. Phila- gland delphia: Saunders College Publishing, 1984.) Figure 76- 2. Metabolic functions of the anterior pituitary hormones. clei of the hypothalamus. The hormones are then trans- ACH, Adrenal corticosteroid hormones. ported in the axoplasm of the neuron’s nerve fibers passing from the hypothalamus to the posterior pituitary gland. This mechanism is discussed later in the chapter. special stains attached to high-a ffinity antibodies that bind with the distinctive hormones, at least five cell types HYPOTHALAMUS CONTROLS PITUITARY can be differentiated (Figure 76- 3). Table 76- 1 provides a SECRETION summary of these cell types, the hormones they produce, and their physiological actions. These five cell types are Almost all pituitary secretion is controlled by hormonal as follows: or nervous signals from the hypothalamus. Indeed, when 1. Somatotropes—human growth hormone (hGH) the pituitary gland is removed from its normal position 2. Corticotropes—adrenocorticotropic hormone beneath the hypothalamus and transplanted to some (ACTH) other part of the body, its secretion rates of the different 3. Thyrotropes—thyroid- stimulating hormone (TSH) hormones (except for prolactin) fall to very low levels. 4. Gonadotropes—gonadotropic hormones, which in- Secretion from the posterior pituitary is controlled clude both luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle- by nerve signals that originate in the hypothalamus and stimulating hormone (FSH) terminate in the posterior pituitary. In contrast, secre- 5. Lactotropes—prolactin (PRL) tion by the anterior pituitary is controlled by hormones About 30% to 40% of the anterior pituitary cells are called hypothalamic releasing and hypothalamic inhibi- somatotropes that secrete growth hormone (GH), and tory hormones (or factors) secreted within the hypo- about 20% are corticotropes that secrete ACTH. Each thalamus and then conducted, as shown in Figure 76-4 , of the other cell types accounts for only 3% to 5% of the to the anterior pituitary through minute blood vessels total; nevertheless, they secrete powerful hormones for called hypothalamic- hypophysial portal vessels. In the controlling thyroid function, sexual functions, and milk anterior pituitary, these releasing and inhibitory hor- secretion by the breasts. mones act on the glandular cells to control their secre- Somatotropes stain strongly with acid dyes and are tion. This system of control is discussed in the next therefore called acidophils. Thus, pituitary tumors that section of this chapter. secrete large quantities of hGH are called acidophilic The
