Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tion. This system of control is discussed in the next therefore called acidophils. Thus, pituitary tumors that section of this chapter. secrete large quantities of hGH are called acidophilic The hypothalamus receives signals from many sources tumors. in the nervous system. Thus, when a person is exposed to pain, a portion of the pain signal is transmitted into the Posterior Pituitary Hormones Are Synthesized by Cell hypothalamus. Likewise, when a person experiences some Bodies in the Hypothalamus. The bodies of the cells that powerful depressing or exciting thought, a portion of the secrete the posterior pituitary hormones are not located in the signal is transmitted into the hypothalamus. Olfactory pituitary gland but are large neurons, called magnocellular stimuli denoting pleasant or unpleasant smells transmit neurons, located in the supraoptic and paraventricular nu- strong signals directly and through the amygdaloid nuclei 930 These proofs may contain color figures. Those figures may print black and white in the final printed book if a color print product has not been planned. The color figures will appear in color in all electronic versions of this book. niportoryhT enomroh htworG Chapter 76 Pituitary Hormones and Their Control by the Hypothalamus Table 76- 1 Cells and Hormones of the Anterior Pituitary Gland and Their Physiological Functions Cell Hormone Chemistry Physiological Action Somatotropes Growth hormone (GH) Single chain of 191 amino Stimulates body growth; stimulates secretion (somatotropin) acids of insulin- like growth factor- 1; stimulates lipolysis; inhibits actions of insulin on carbohydrate and lipid metabolism Corticotropes Adrenocorticotropic Single chain of 39 amino acids Stimulates production of glucocorticoids and hormone (ACTH) androgens by the adrenal cortex; maintains (corticotropin) size of zona fasciculata and zona reticularis of cortex Thyrotropes Thyroid- stimulating Glycoprotein of two subunits, Stimulates production of thyroid hormones hormone (TSH) α (89 amino acids) and β by thyroid follicular cells; maintains size of (thyrotropin) (112 amino acids) follicular cells Gonadotropes Follicle- stimulating Glycoprotein of two subunits, Stimulates development of ovarian follicles; hormone (FSH) α (89 amino acids) and β regulates spermatogenesis in the testis (112 amino acids) Luteinizing (LH) Glycoprotein of two subunits, Causes ovulation and formation of the corpus hormone α (89 amino acids) and β luteum in the ovary; stimulates production (115 amino acids) of estrogen and progesterone by the ovary; stimulates testosterone production by the testis Lactotropes- Prolactin (PRL) Single chain of 198 amino Stimulates milk secretion and production mammotropes acids Almost all the
