Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


estrogen and progesterone by the ovary; stimulates testosterone production by the testis Lactotropes- Prolactin (PRL) Single chain of 198 amino Stimulates milk secretion and production mammotropes acids Almost all the blood that enters these sinuses passes first through another capillary bed in the lower Hypothalamus hypothalamus. The blood then flows through small hypothalamic- hypophysial portal blood vessels into Optic chiasm the anterior pituitary sinuses. Figure 76-4 shows the lowermost portion of the hypothalamus, called the median eminence, which connects inferiorly with the Mammillary body pituitary stalk. The median eminence is the functional Median eminence link between the hypothalamus and the anterior pitu- Artery Primary capillary itary gland. Small arteries penetrate into the median plexus eminence and then additional small vessels return Hypothalamic- Anterior pituitary hypophysial to its surface, coalescing to form the hypothalamic- portal vessels hypophysial portal blood vessels. These vessels pass downward along the pituitary stalk to supply blood to Posterior pituitary the anterior pituitary sinuses. Vein Sinuses Hypothalamic Releasing and Inhibitory Hormones Are Secreted Into the Median Eminence. Special neu- Figure 76- 4. Hypothalamic- hypophysial portal system. rons in the hypothalamus synthesize and secrete the hy- pothalamic releasing and inhibitory hormones that control into the hypothalamus. Even the concentrations of nutri- secretion of the anterior pituitary hormones. These neu- ents, electrolytes, water, and various hormones in the rons originate in various parts of the hypothalamus and blood excite or inhibit various portions of the hypothala- send their nerve fibers to the median eminence and tuber mus. Thus, the hypothalamus is a center for integrating cinereum, an extension of hypothalamic tissue into the pi- information concerning the internal well-b eing of the body, tuitary stalk. and much of this information is used to control secretions The endings of these fibers are different from most end- of the many globally important pituitary hormones. ings in the central nervous system in that their function is not to transmit signals from one neuron to another but HYPOTHALAMIC- HYPOPHYSIAL PORTAL rather to secrete the hypothalamic releasing and inhibi- BLOOD VESSELS OF THE ANTERIOR tory hormones into the tissue fluids. These hormones are PITUITARY GLAND immediately absorbed into the hypothalamic-h ypophysial The anterior pituitary is a highly vascular gland with portal system and carried directly to the sinuses of the extensive capillary sinuses among the glandular cells. anterior pituitary gland. 931 These proofs may contain color figures. Those figures may print black and white
