Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


directly to the sinuses of the extensive capillary sinuses among the glandular cells. anterior pituitary gland. 931 These proofs may contain color figures. Those figures may print black and white in the final printed book if a color print product has not been planned. The color figures will appear in color in all electronic versions of this book. UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Table 76- 2 Hypothalamic Releasing and Inhibitory Hormones That Control Secretion of the Anterior Pituitary Gland Hormone Structure Primary Action on Anterior Pituitary Thyrotropin- releasing hormone (TRH) Peptide of 3 amino acids Stimulates secretion of TSH by thyrotropes Gonadotropin- releasing hormone Single chain of 10 amino acids Stimulates secretion of FSH and LH by (GnRH) gonadotropes Corticotropin- releasing hormone Single chain of 41 amino acids Stimulates secretion of ACTH by corticotropes (CRH) Growth hormone–releasing hormone Single chain of 44 amino acids Stimulates secretion of growth hormone by (GHRH) somatotropes Growth hormone inhibitory hormone Single chain of 14 amino acids Inhibits secretion of growth hormone by (somatostatin) somatotropes Prolactin- inhibiting hormone (PIH) Dopamine (a catecholamine) Inhibits synthesis and secretion of prolactin by lactotropes ACTH, Adrenocorticotropic hormone; FSH, follicle-s timulating hormone; LH, luteinizing hormone; TSH, thyroid- stimulating hormone. Hypothalamic Releasing and Inhibitory Hormones are located in other discrete areas of the hypothalamus or Control Anterior Pituitary Secretion. The function in closely related areas of the basal brain. of the releasing and inhibitory hormones is to control secretion of the anterior pituitary hormones. For most PHYSIOLOGICAL FUNCTIONS OF of the anterior pituitary hormones, it is the releasing GROWTH HORMONE hormones that are important, but for prolactin, a hypo- thalamic inhibitory hormone probably exerts more con- All the major anterior pituitary hormones, except for GH, trol. The major hypothalamic releasing and inhibitory exert their principal effects mainly by stimulating target hormones, which are summarized in Table 76-2 , are the glands, including thyroid gland, adrenal cortex, ovaries, following: testicles, and mammary glands. The functions of each of 1. Thyrotropin- releasing hormone (TRH), which caus- these pituitary hormones are so intimately concerned with es release of TSH the functions of the respective target glands that, except 2. Corticotropin- releasing hormone (CRH), which for GH, their functions are discussed in subsequent chap- causes release of ACTH ters along with the target glands. GH, however, exerts its 3. Growth hormone–releasing hormone (GHRH), effects directly on all or almost all tissues of the
