Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


chap- causes release of ACTH ters along with the target glands. GH, however, exerts its 3. Growth hormone–releasing hormone (GHRH), effects directly on all or almost all tissues of the body. which causes release of GH, and growth hormone GROWTH HORMONE PROMOTES inhibitory hormone (GHIH), also called somatosta- GROWTH OF MANY BODY TISSUES tin, which inhibits release of GH 4. Gonadotropin- releasing hormone (GnRH), which GH, also called somatotropic hormone or somatotropin, causes release of the two gonadotropic hormones, is a small protein molecule that contains 191 amino acids LH and FSH in a single chain and has a molecular weight of 22,005. It 5. Prolactin inhibitory hormone (PIH), also known as do- causes growth of almost all tissues of the body that are pamine, which causes inhibition of prolactin secretion capable of growing. It promotes increased sizes of the cells Additional hypothalamic hormones include one that and increased mitosis, with development of greater num- stimulates prolactin secretion and perhaps others that bers of cells and specific differentiation of certain types inhibit release of the anterior pituitary hormones. Each of of cells such as bone growth cells and early muscle cells. the more important hypothalamic hormones is discussed Figure 76- 5 shows typical weight charts of two grow- in detail as the specific hormonal systems controlled by ing littermate rats; one received daily injections of GH, them are presented in this and subsequent chapters. and the other did not receive GH. This figure shows marked enhancement of growth in the rat given GH, in Specific Areas in the Hypothalamus Control Secretion the early days of life and even after the two rats reached of Specific Hypothalamic Releasing and Inhibitory adulthood. In the early stages of development, all organs Hormones. All or most of the hypothalamic hormones of the treated rat increased proportionately in size; after are secreted at nerve endings in the median eminence adulthood was reached, most of the bones stopped before being transported to the anterior pituitary gland. lengthening, but many of the soft tissues continued to Electrical stimulation of this region excites these nerve grow. Once the epiphyses of the long bones have united endings and, therefore, causes release of essentially all the with the shafts, further lengthening of bone cannot occur, hypothalamic hormones. However, the neuronal cell bod- even though many other tissues of the body can continue ies that give rise to these median eminence
