Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


lengthening of bone cannot occur, hypothalamic hormones. However, the neuronal cell bod- even though many other tissues of the body can continue ies that give rise to these median eminence nerve endings to grow throughout life. 932 These proofs may contain color figures. Those figures may print black and white in the final printed book if a color print product has not been planned. The color figures will appear in color in all electronic versions of this book. Chapter 76 Pituitary Hormones and Their Control by the Hypothalamus 500 Hypothalamus Injected daily with growth hormone 400 300 Control 200 GHRH neurons SST neurons (+) (–) 100 0 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 Days Figure 76- 5. Comparison of weight gain of a rat injected daily with growth hormone with that of a normal littermate. Growth Adipose tissue hormone Glucose uptake GROWTH HORMONE HAS SEVERAL Lipolysis METABOLIC EFFECTS Liver Aside from its general effect in causing growth, GH has IGF-1 multiple specific metabolic effects (Figure 76- 6), includ- Bone ing the following: (1) increased rate of protein synthesis in most cells of the body; (2) increased mobilization of fatty Osteogenic and acids from adipose tissue, increased free fatty acids in the Muscle chondrocytic cells blood, and increased use of fatty acids for energy; and (3) Glucose uptake Amino acid uptake decreased rate of glucose utilization throughout the body. Amino acid uptake Protein synthesis Thus, in effect, GH enhances body protein, decreases fat Protein synthesis DNA/RNA synthesis stores, and conserves carbohydrates. Collagen Cell size and number Growth Hormone Promotes Protein Deposition in Tissues Figure 76- 6. Effects of growth hormone and insulin- like growth fac- Although the precise mechanisms by which growth hor- tor - 1 (IGF- 1) on growth and metabolism. Growth hormone secretion is stimulated by growth hormone–releasing hormone (GHRH) and in- mone increases protein deposition are not fully under- hibited by somatostatin (SST), as well as negative feedback effects of stood, a series of different effects are known, all of which growth hormone and IGF-1 on the anterior pituitary gland and the could lead to enhanced protein deposition. hypothalamic neurons. Other factors that control growth hormone secretion are described in Table 76- 3. Enhancement of Amino Acid Transport Through the Cell Membranes. GH directly enhances transport of most amino acids through cell membranes to the interior of the cells. This increases amino acid concentrations in Table 76-
