Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Transport Through the Cell Membranes. GH directly enhances transport of most amino acids through cell membranes to the interior of the cells. This increases amino acid concentrations in Table 76- 3 Factors That Stimulate or Inhibit Secretion the cells and is presumed to be at least partly responsible of Growth Hormone for the increased protein synthesis. This control of amino acid transport is similar to the effect of insulin in con- Stimulate Growth Hormone Inhibit Growth Hormone Secretion Secretion trolling glucose transport through the membrane, as dis- cussed in Chapters 68 and 79. Decreased blood glucose Increased blood glucose level level Decreased blood free fatty Increased blood free fatty Enhancement of RNA Translation to Cause Protein acid levels acid levels Synthesis by the Ribosomes. Even when the amino Increased blood amino acid Aging acid concentrations are not increased in the cells, GH still levels (arginine) Obesity increases RNA translation, causing protein to be synthe- Starvation or fasting, Growth hormone inhibitory protein deficiency hormone (somatostatin) sized in greater amounts by the ribosomes in the cyto- Trauma, stress, excitement Growth hormone plasm. Exercise (exogenous) Testosterone, estrogen Insulin- like growth factors Increased Nuclear Transcription of DNA to Form RNA. Deep sleep (stages 2 and 4) (somatomedins) Over more prolonged periods (24–48 hours), GH also stim- Growth hormone–releasing hormone ulates transcription of DNA in the nucleus, causing forma- Ghrelin tion of increased quantities of RNA. This promotes more 933 These proofs may contain color figures. Those figures may print black and white in the final printed book if a color print product has not been planned. The color figures will appear in color in all electronic versions of this book. )smarg( thgiew ydoB UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction protein synthesis and growth if sufficient energy, amino ac- who are also resistant to the metabolic effects of insulin. ids, vitamins, and other requisites for growth are available. In However, patients with acromegaly who have excess GH the long run, this may be the most important function of GH. secretion are usually lean with little visceral fat whereas patients with type 2 diabetes are frequently overweight Decreased Catabolism of Protein and Amino Acids. with excessive visceral fat which drives insulin resistance. In addition to the increase in protein synthesis, GH de- We do not know the precise mechanism by which GH creases breakdown of cell protein. A probable reason for causes insulin resistance and
