Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the increase in protein synthesis, GH de- We do not know the precise mechanism by which GH creases breakdown of cell protein. A probable reason for causes insulin resistance and decreased glucose utilization this decrease is that GH also mobilizes large quantities of by the cells. However, GH- induced increases in lipolysis free fatty acids from the adipose tissue, and these are used and blood concentrations of fatty acids likely contribute to supply most of the energy for the body’s cells, thus act- to impairment of insulin’s actions on tissue glucose uti- ing as a potent “protein sparer.” lization. Experimental studies indicate that raising blood levels of fatty acids above normal rapidly decreases the Summary. GH enhances almost all facets of amino acid sensitivity of the liver and skeletal muscle to insulin’s uptake and protein synthesis by cells, while at the same effects on carbohydrate metabolism. time reducing the breakdown of proteins. Necessity of Insulin and Carbohydrate for Growth Hormone Enhances Fat the Growth- Promoting Action of Growth Utilization for Energy Hormone GH has a specific effect to cause release of fatty acids from GH fails to cause growth in animals that lack a pancreas; adipose tissue and, therefore, increases the concentration it also fails to cause growth if carbohydrates are excluded of fatty acids in body fluids. Also, in tissues throughout from the diet. Thus, adequate insulin activity and ade- the body, GH enhances conversion of fatty acids to acetyl quate availability of carbohydrates are necessary for GH coenzyme A (acetyl-C oA) and its subsequent utilization to be effective. Part of this requirement for carbohydrates for energy. Therefore, under the influence of GH, fat is and insulin is to provide the energy needed for the metab- used for energy in preference to use of carbohydrates and olism of growth, but there seem to be other effects as well. proteins. Especially important is the ability of insulin to enhance The ability of GH to promote fat utilization, together transport of some amino acids into cells, in the same way with its protein anabolic effect, causes an increase in lean that it stimulates glucose transport. body mass. However, mobilization of fat by GH requires GROWTH HORMONE STIMULATES several hours to occur, whereas enhancement of protein CARTILAGE AND BONE GROWTH synthesis can begin in minutes under the influence of GH. Although GH stimulates increased deposition of protein “Ketogenic” Effect of Excessive Growth
