Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


whereas enhancement of protein CARTILAGE AND BONE GROWTH synthesis can begin in minutes under the influence of GH. Although GH stimulates increased deposition of protein “Ketogenic” Effect of Excessive Growth Hormone. and increased growth in almost all tissues of the body, its Under the influence of excessive amounts of GH, fat mo- most obvious effect is to increase growth of the skeletal bilization from adipose tissue sometimes becomes so frame. This results from multiple effects of growth hor- great that large quantities of acetoacetic acid are formed mone on bone, including (1) increased deposition of pro- by the liver and released into the body fluids, thus causing tein by the chondrocytic and osteogenic cells that cause ketosis. This excessive mobilization of fat from the adipose bone growth, (2) increased rate of reproduction of these tissue also frequently causes a fatty liver. cells, and (3) a specific effect of converting chondrocytes into osteogenic cells, thus causing deposition of new bone. Growth Hormone Decreases There are two principal mechanisms of bone growth. Carbohydrate Utilization First, in response to GH stimulation, the long bones grow GH has multiple effects that influence carbohydrate in length at the epiphyseal cartilages, where the epiphyses metabolism, including (1) decreased glucose uptake in at the ends of the bone are separated from the shaft. This tissues such as skeletal muscle and fat, (2) increased glu- growth first causes deposition of new cartilage, followed cose production by the liver, and (3) increased insulin by its conversion into new bone, thus elongating the shaft secretion. and pushing the epiphyses farther and farther apart. At Each of these changes results from GH- induced “insu- the same time, the epiphyseal cartilage is progressively lin resistance,” which attenuates insulin’s actions to stimu- used up so, by late adolescence, no additional epiphyseal late uptake and utilization of glucose in skeletal muscle cartilage remains to provide for further long bone growth. and adipose tissue and to inhibit gluconeogenesis (glu- At this time, bony fusion occurs between the shaft and cose production) by the liver; this leads to increased blood the epiphysis at each end, so no further lengthening of the glucose concentration and a compensatory increase long bone can occur. in insulin secretion. For these reasons, GH’s effects are Second, osteoblasts in the bone periosteum and in some called diabetogenic, and excess secretion of GH can pro- bone cavities deposit new bone on the surfaces
