Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


reasons, GH’s effects are Second, osteoblasts in the bone periosteum and in some called diabetogenic, and excess secretion of GH can pro- bone cavities deposit new bone on the surfaces of older duce metabolic disturbances similar to those found in bone. Simultaneously, osteoclasts in the bone (discussed in patients with type 2 (non–insulin- dependent) diabetes, detail in Chapter 80) remove old bone. When the rate of 934 These proofs may contain color figures. Those figures may print black and white in the final printed book if a color print product has not been planned. The color figures will appear in color in all electronic versions of this book. Chapter 76 Pituitary Hormones and Their Control by the Hypothalamus deposition is greater than that of resorption, the thickness Sleep 30 of the bone increases. Growth hormone strongly stimulates osteoblasts. Therefore, the bones can continue to become Strenuous exercise thicker throughout life under the influence of GH; this is 20 especially true for the membranous bones. For example, the jaw bones can be stimulated to grow even after adoles- cence, causing forward protrusion of the chin and lower 10 teeth. Likewise, the bones of the skull can grow in thick- ness and give rise to bony protrusions over the eyes. 0 GROWTH HORMONE EXERTS MUCH 8 am 12 4 pm 8 pm 12 4 am 8 am Noon Midnight OF ITS EFFECT THROUGH INSULIN- LIKE Figure 76- 7. Typical variations in growth hormone secretion GROWTH FACTORS (SOMATOMEDINS) throughout the day, demonstrating the especially powerful effect of GH causes the liver (and, to a much less extent, other strenuous exercise and also the high rate of growth hormone secre- tissues) to form several small proteins called insulin- tion that occurs during the first few hours of deep sleep. like growth factors (IGFs, also called somatomedins) that mediate some of the growth and metabolic effects of GH REGULATION OF GROWTH HORMONE (Figure 76- 6). SECRETION At least four IGFs have been isolated, but by far the most important of these is IGF-1 (somatomedin C). After adolescence, GH secretion decreases slowly with The molecular weight of IGF-1 is about 7500, and its concen- aging, finally falling to about 25% of the adolescent level tration in the plasma closely follows the rate of GH secretion. in very old age. Children with deficiency of IGF fail to grow normally GH is secreted in a pulsatile pattern, increasing
