Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the plasma closely follows the rate of GH secretion. in very old age. Children with deficiency of IGF fail to grow normally GH is secreted in a pulsatile pattern, increasing and even though they may have normal or elevated secretion decreasing. The precise mechanisms that control secre- of GH. The pygmy peoples of Africa, for example, have tion of GH are not fully understood, but several fac- very small stature due to a congenital inability to synthe- tors related to a person’s state of nutrition or stress are size significant amounts of IGF-1 . Although their plasma known to stimulate secretion: (1) starvation, especially concentration of GH is either normal or high, they have with severe protein deficiency; (2) hypoglycemia or low diminished amounts of IGF-1 in the plasma, which appar- concentration of fatty acids in the blood; (3) exercise; (4) ently accounts for the small stature of these people. Some excitement; (5) trauma; (6) ghrelin, a hormone secreted other dwarfs (e.g., Laron syndrome) have a similar prob- by the stomach before meals; and (7) some amino acids, lem, generally caused by a mutation of the GH receptor and including arginine. GH also characteristically increases therefore failure of GH to stimulate formation of IGF-1 . during the first 2 hours of deep sleep, as shown in Figure It has been postulated that most of the growth effects 76- 7. Table 76- 3 summarizes some of the factors that are of GH result from IGF- 1 and other IGFs, rather than from known to influence growth hormone secretion. direct effects of GH on the bones and other peripheral The normal concentration of GH in the plasma of an tissues. Even so, experiments have demonstrated that adult is between 1.6 and 3 ng/ml; in a child or adolescent, injection of GH directly into the epiphyseal cartilages of it is about 6 ng/ml. These values may increase to as high bones of living animals causes growth of these cartilage as 50 ng/ml after depletion of the body stores of proteins areas, and the amount of GH required for this growth to or carbohydrates during prolonged starvation. occur is minute. One possible explanation for this finding Under acute conditions, hypoglycemia is a far more is that GH can cause formation of enough IGF- 1 in the potent stimulator of GH secretion than is an acute local tissue to cause local growth. However, GH also
