Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is that GH can cause formation of enough IGF- 1 in the potent stimulator of GH secretion than is an acute local tissue to cause local growth. However, GH also has decrease in protein intake. Conversely, in chronic con- IGF- independent effects that stimulate growth in some ditions, GH secretion seems to correlate more with the tissues such as chondrocytes of cartilage. degree of cellular protein depletion than with the degree of glucose insufficiency. For example, the extremely high Short Duration of Action of Growth Hormone but levels of GH that occur during starvation are closely Prolonged Action of IGF-1 . GH attaches only weakly related to the amount of protein depletion. to the plasma proteins in blood. Therefore, it is released Figure 76- 8 demonstrates the effect of protein defi- from the blood into the tissues rapidly, having a half- time ciency on plasma GH and then the effect of adding pro- in blood of less than 20 minutes. By contrast, IGF-1 at- tein to the diet. The first column shows very high levels taches strongly to a carrier protein in the blood that, like of GH in children with extreme protein deficiency during IGF- 1, is produced in response to GH. As a result, IGF- 1 the protein malnutrition condition called kwashiorkor; the is released only slowly from the blood to the tissues, with second column shows the levels in the same children after a half- time of about 20 hours. This slow release greatly 3 days of treatment with more than adequate quantities of prolongs the growth- promoting effects of the bursts of carbohydrates in their diets, demonstrating that the car- GH secretion shown in Figure 76- 7. bohydrates did not lower the plasma GH concentration. 935 These proofs may contain color figures. Those figures may print black and white in the final printed book if a color print product has not been planned. The color figures will appear in color in all electronic versions of this book. enomroh htworG )amsalp lm/gn( UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction 40 In a similar manner, hypothalamic signals depicting emotions, stress, and trauma can all affect hypothalamic control of GH secretion. In fact, experiments have shown 30 that catecholamines, dopamine, and serotonin, each of which is released by a different neuronal system in the hypothalamus, all increase the rate of GH secretion. 20 Most of the control of GH
