Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


dopamine, and serotonin, each of which is released by a different neuronal system in the hypothalamus, all increase the rate of GH secretion. 20 Most of the control of GH secretion is probably medi- ated through GHRH rather than through the inhibitory hormone somatostatin. GHRH stimulates GH secretion 10 by attaching to specific cell membrane receptors on the outer surfaces of the GH cells in the pituitary gland. The receptors activate the adenylyl cyclase system inside the 0 cell membrane, increasing the intracellular level of cyclic Protein Carbohydrate Protein Protein adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). This increase has both deficiency treatment treatment treatment (kwashiorkor) (3 days) (3 days) (25 days) short- term and long- term effects. The short- term effect is to increase calcium ion transport into the cell; within min- Figure 76- 8. Effect of extreme protein deficiency on the plasma concentration of growth hormone in the disease kwashiorkor. Also utes, this increase causes fusion of the GH secretory vesicles shown is the failure of carbohydrate treatment but the effectiveness with the cell membrane and release of the hormone into the of protein treatment in lowering growth hormone concentration. blood. The long- term effect is to increase transcription in (Data from Pimstone BL, Barbezat G, Hansen JD, et al: Studies on the nucleus by the genes to stimulate synthesis of new GH. growth hormone secretion in protein-c alorie malnutrition. Am J Clin When GH is administered directly into the blood of Nutr 21:482, 1968.) an animal over several hours, the rate of endogenous GH secretion decreases. This decrease demonstrates that GH The third and fourth columns show the levels after treat- secretion is subject to typical negative feedback control, as ment with protein supplements for 3 and 25 days, respec- is true for essentially all hormones. The nature of this feed- tively, with a concomitant decrease in the hormone. back mechanism and whether it is mediated mainly through These results demonstrate that under severe condi- inhibition of GHRH or enhancement of somatostatin, tions of protein malnutrition, adequate calories alone are which inhibits growth hormone secretion, are uncertain. not sufficient to correct the excess production of GH. The In summary, our knowledge of the regulation of GH protein deficiency must also be corrected before the GH secretion is not sufficient to describe a composite picture. concentration will return to normal. Yet, because of the extreme secretion of GH during starva- Hypothalamic Growth
