Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


corrected before the GH secretion is not sufficient to describe a composite picture. concentration will return to normal. Yet, because of the extreme secretion of GH during starva- Hypothalamic Growth Hormone– tion and its important long- term effect to promote protein Releasing Hormone Stimulates, and synthesis and tissue growth, we can propose the following: Somatostatin Inhibits Growth Hormone the major long- term controller of GH secretion is the long- Secretion term state of nutrition of the tissues, especially their level of protein nutrition. That is, nutritional deficiency or excess From the preceding description of the many factors that tissue need for cellular proteins—for example, after a severe can affect GH secretion, one can readily understand the bout of exercise when the muscle’s nutritional status has been perplexity of physiologists as they attempted to unravel taxed—in some way increases the rate of GH secretion. GH, the mysteries of regulation of GH secretion. It is known in turn, promotes synthesis of new proteins while at the same that GH secretion is controlled by two factors secreted time conserving the proteins already present in the cells. in the hypothalamus and then transported to the anterior pituitary gland through the hypothalamic- hypophysial Abnormalities of Growth Hormone Secretion portal vessels. They are growth hormone–releasing hor- mone (GHRH) and growth hormone inhibitory hormone Panhypopituitarism—Decreased Secretion of All Ante- (also called somatostatin). Both of these are polypeptides; rior Pituitary Hormones. Decreased secretion of all anterior GHRH is composed of 44 amino acids, and somatostatin pituitary hormones in patients with panhypopituitarism is composed of 14 amino acids. may be congenital (present from birth), or it may occur sud- denly or slowly at any time during life, most often resulting Neurons in the arcuate and ventromedial nuclei of from a pituitary tumor that destroys the pituitary gland. the hypothalamus secrete GHRH; this is the same area Panhypopituitarism in the Adult. Panhypopituitarism of the hypothalamus that is sensitive to blood glucose first occurring in adulthood generally results from one concentration, causing satiety in hyperglycemic states of three abnormalities. Two tumorous conditions, crani- and hunger in hypoglycemic states. Secretion of soma- opharyngiomas or chromophobe tumors, may compress tostatin is controlled by the nearby periventricular neu- the pituitary gland until the functioning anterior pituitary rons of the hypothalamus. Therefore, it is reasonable to cells are totally or almost totally destroyed. The third cause expect that some of the same signals that modify
