Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


anterior pituitary rons of the hypothalamus. Therefore, it is reasonable to cells are totally or almost totally destroyed. The third cause expect that some of the same signals that modify a per- is thrombosis of the pituitary blood vessels. This abnormal- son’s behavioral feeding instincts also alter the rate of ity occasionally occurs when a new mother experiences cir- GH secretion. culatory shock after the birth of her baby. 936 These proofs may contain color figures. Those figures may print black and white in the final printed book if a color print product has not been planned. The color figures will appear in color in all electronic versions of this book. )lm/gn( enomroh htworg amsalP Chapter 76 Pituitary Hormones and Their Control by the Hypothalamus The general effects of adult panhypopituitarism are (1) caused by a tumor of the pituitary gland that grows until hypothyroidism, (2) depressed production of glucocorti- the gland is destroyed. This eventual general deficiency of coids by the adrenal glands, and (3) suppressed secretion pituitary hormones usually causes death in early adulthood. of the gonadotropic hormones so that sexual functions are However, once gigantism is diagnosed, further effects can lost. Thus, the picture is that of a lethargic person (from often be blocked by microsurgical removal of the tumor or lack of thyroid hormones) who is gaining weight (because by irradiation of the pituitary gland. of lack of fat mobilization by growth, adrenocorticotropic, Acromegaly and Excess Growth Hormone After Ado- adrenocortical, and thyroid hormones) and has lost all sex- lescence. If an acidophilic tumor occurs after adolescence— ual functions. Except for the abnormal sexual functions, the that is, after the epiphyses of the long bones have fused with patient can usually be treated satisfactorily by administering the shafts—the person cannot grow taller, but the bones can adrenocortical and thyroid hormones. become thicker and the soft tissues can continue to grow. Panhypopituitarism During Childhood and Dwarfism. This condition, shown in Figure 76- 9, is known as acro- Most cases of dwarfism result from generalized deficiency megaly. Enlargement is especially marked in the bones of the of anterior pituitary secretion (panhypopituitarism) during hands and feet and in the membranous bones, including the childhood. In general, all the physical parts of the body de- cranium, nose, bosses on the forehead, supraorbital ridges, velop in appropriate proportion to one another, but the rate lower jawbone, and portions of the vertebrae,
