Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


parts of the body de- cranium, nose, bosses on the forehead, supraorbital ridges, velop in appropriate proportion to one another, but the rate lower jawbone, and portions of the vertebrae, because their of development is greatly decreased. A child who has reached growth does not cease at adolescence. Consequently, the the age of 10 years may have the bodily development of a child lower jaw protrudes forward, sometimes as much as half an aged 4 to 5 years, and the same person at age 20 years may inch, the forehead slants forward because of excess devel- have the bodily development of a child aged 7 to 10 years. opment of the supraorbital ridges, the nose increases to as A person with panhypopituitary dwarfism does not pass much as twice normal size, the feet require size 14 or larger through puberty and never secretes sufficient quantities of shoes, and the fingers become extremely thickened so that gonadotropic hormones to develop adult sexual functions. the hands are almost twice normal size. In addition to these In one-third of such dwarfs, however, only GH is deficient; effects, changes in the vertebrae ordinarily cause a hunched these persons do mature sexually and occasionally reproduce. back, which is known clinically as kyphosis. Finally, many soft In Laron dwarfs and African pygmies, the rate of GH secre- tissue organs, such as the tongue, the liver, and especially the tion is normal or high, but responsiveness to GH is impaired kidneys, become greatly enlarged. due to mutations of the GH receptor or a hereditary inability Possible Role of Decreased Growth Hormone to form IGF-1 , a key step for the promotion of growth by GH. Treatment With Human Growth Hormone. Growth hor- Secretion in Causing Changes Associated With Aging mones from different species of animals are sufficiently differ- In people who have lost the ability to secrete GH, some ent from one another that they will cause growth only in the features of the aging process accelerate. For example, a one species or, at most, closely related species. For this reason, 50- year- old person who has been without GH for many GH prepared from other animals (except, to some extent, from years may have the appearance of a person aged 65 years primates) is not effective in human beings. Therefore, the GH or older. The aged appearance seems to result mainly from of the human being
