Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of a person aged 65 years primates) is not effective in human beings. Therefore, the GH or older. The aged appearance seems to result mainly from of the human being is called human growth hormone (hGH) to decreased protein deposition in most tissues of the body distinguish it from the others. and increased fat deposition in its place. The physical and In the past, because GH had to be prepared from human physiological effects are increased wrinkling of the skin, pituitary glands, it was difficult to obtain sufficient quanti- diminished rates of function of some of the organs, and di- ties to treat patients with GH deficiency, except on an ex- minished muscle mass and strength. perimental basis. However, hGH can now be synthesized by As one ages, the average plasma concentration of Escherichia coli bacteria as a result of successful application growth hormone in an otherwise normal person changes of recombinant DNA technology. Therefore, this hormone approximately as follows: is now available in sufficient quantities for treatment pur- Age (years) ng/ml poses. Dwarfs who have pure GH deficiency can be com- pletely cured if treated early in life. 5 to 20 6 Gigantism and Excess Growth Hormone Before Adoles- 20 to 40 3 cence. Occasionally, the acidophilic, GH- producing cells of 40 to 70 1.6 the anterior pituitary gland become excessively active, and sometimes even acidophilic tumors occur in the gland. As a Thus, it is possible that some of the normal aging effects result, large quantities of GH are produced. All body tissues result from diminished growth hormone secretion. In fact, grow rapidly, including the bones. If the condition occurs some studies of growth hormone therapy in older people before adolescence, before the epiphyses of the long bones have demonstrated three important beneficial effects: (1) have become fused with the shafts, height increases so that increased protein deposition in the body, especially in the the person becomes a giant—up to 8 feet tall. muscles; (2) decreased fat deposits; and (3) a feeling of in- The giant ordinarily has hyperglycemia, and the beta creased energy. Other studies, however, have shown that cells of the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas are prone treatment of elderly patients with recombinant GH may to degenerate because they become overactive owing to the produce several undesirable adverse effects including insulin hyperglycemia. Consequently, in about 10% of giants, full- resistance and diabetes, edema, carpal
