Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


may to degenerate because they become overactive owing to the produce several undesirable adverse effects including insulin hyperglycemia. Consequently, in about 10% of giants, full- resistance and diabetes, edema, carpal tunnel syndrome, and blown diabetes mellitus eventually develops. arthralgias (joint pain). Therefore, recombinant GH therapy In most giants, panhypopituitarism eventually develops is generally not recommended for use in healthy elderly pa- if they remain untreated because the gigantism is usually tients with normal endocrine function. 937 These proofs may contain color figures. Those figures may print black and white in the final printed book if a color print product has not been planned. The color figures will appear in color in all electronic versions of this book. UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Figure 76- 9. Patient with acromegaly. (Courtesy of Dr. Vishnu Garla.) POSTERIOR PITUITARY GLAND AND ITS When nerve impulses are transmitted downward along RELATION TO THE HYPOTHALAMUS the fibers from the supraoptic or paraventricular nuclei, the hormone is immediately released from the secretory gran- The posterior pituitary gland, also called the neurohy- ules in the nerve endings by the usual secretory mechanism pophysis, is composed mainly of glial- like cells called of exocytosis and is absorbed into adjacent capillaries. Both pituicytes. The pituicytes do not secrete hormones; they the neurophysin and the hormone are secreted together, act simply as a supporting structure for large numbers but because they are only loosely bound to each other, the of terminal nerve fibers and terminal nerve endings from hormone separates almost immediately. The neurophysin nerve tracts that originate in the supraoptic and para- has no known function after leaving the nerve terminals. ventricular nuclei of the hypothalamus, as shown in Figure 76-1 0. These tracts pass to the neurohypophysis Chemical Structures of Antidiuretic Hormone through the pituitary stalk (hypophysial stalk). The nerve and Oxytocin endings are bulbous knobs that contain many secretory granules. These endings lie on the surfaces of capillaries, Both oxytocin and ADH (vasopressin) are polypeptides, where they secrete two posterior pituitary hormones: (1) each containing nine amino acids. Their amino acid se- antidiuretic hormone (ADH), also called vasopressin, and quences are the following: (2) oxytocin. Vasopressin: Cys- Tyr- Phe- Gln- Asn- Cys- Pro- Arg- If the pituitary stalk is cut above the pituitary gland but GlyNH 2 the entire hypothalamus is left intact, the posterior pitu- Oxytocin: Cys- Tyr- Ile- Gln- Asn- Cys- Pro- Leu- GlyNH
