Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


pituitary stalk is cut above the pituitary gland but GlyNH 2 the entire hypothalamus is left intact, the posterior pitu- Oxytocin: Cys- Tyr- Ile- Gln- Asn- Cys- Pro- Leu- GlyNH 2 Note that these two hormones are almost identical except itary hormones continue to be secreted normally, after a that in vasopressin, phenylalanine and arginine replace iso- transient decrease for a few days; they are then secreted leucine and leucine of the oxytocin molecule. The similarity by the cut ends of the fibers within the hypothalamus and of the molecules explains their partial functional similarities. not by the nerve endings in the posterior pituitary. The reason for this is that the hormones are initially synthe- sized in the cell bodies of the supraoptic and paraventric- PHYSIOLOGICAL FUNCTIONS OF ular nuclei and are then transported in combination with ANTIDIURETIC HORMONE “carrier” proteins called neurophysins down to the nerve endings in the posterior pituitary gland, requiring several Injection of extremely minute quantities of ADH—as days to reach the gland. small as 2 nanograms—can cause decreased excretion ADH is formed primarily in the supraoptic nuclei, of water by the kidneys (antidiuresis). This antidiuretic whereas oxytocin is formed primarily in the paraventricu- effect is discussed in Chapters 28 and 29. Briefly, in the lar nuclei. Each of these nuclei can synthesize about one absence of ADH, the collecting tubules and ducts become sixth as much of the second hormone as of its primary almost impermeable to water, which prevents significant hormone. reabsorption of water and therefore allows extreme loss 938 These proofs may contain color figures. Those figures may print black and white in the final printed book if a color print product has not been planned. The color figures will appear in color in all electronic versions of this book. Chapter 76 Pituitary Hormones and Their Control by the Hypothalamus into the posterior pituitary to release large quantities Paraventricular of ADH into the circulating blood, sometimes increas- nucleus ing the ADH secretion to as high as 20 times normal. Supraoptic Conversely, injection of a dilute solution into this artery nucleus causes cessation of these impulses and therefore almost total cessation of ADH secretion. Thus, the concentra- tion of ADH in the body fluids can change from small Mammillary body amounts to large amounts, or vice versa, in only a few minutes. Optic chiasm Hypothalamic- hypophysial In or near the hypothalamus are modified neuron
