Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


can change from small Mammillary body amounts to large amounts, or vice versa, in only a few minutes. Optic chiasm Hypothalamic- hypophysial In or near the hypothalamus are modified neuron tract receptors called osmoreceptors. When the extracellular fluid becomes too concentrated, fluid is pulled by osmo- Anterior pituitary Posterior pituitary sis out of the osmoreceptor cell, decreasing its size and initiating appropriate nerve signals in the hypothalamus to cause additional ADH secretion. Conversely, when the extracellular fluid becomes too dilute, water moves by osmosis in the opposite direction, into the cell, which Figure 76- 10. Hypothalamic control of the posterior pituitary. decreases the signal for ADH secretion. Although some researchers place these osmoreceptors in the hypothala- of water into the urine, also causing extreme dilution of mus (in the supraoptic nuclei), others believe that they the urine, a condition called central diabetes insipidus. are located in the organum vasculosum, a highly vascular Conversely, in the presence of high levels of ADH, the structure in the anteroventral wall of the third ventricle permeability of the collecting ducts and tubules to water (AV3V region). As discussed in Chapter 29, lesions of increases greatly and allows most of the water to be reab- the AV3V region greatly impair ADH secretion, whereas sorbed as the tubular fluid passes through these ducts, electrical stimulation or stimulation by angiotensin II thereby conserving water in the body and producing very increases ADH secretion. concentrated urine. Regardless of the mechanism, concentrated body Without ADH, the luminal membranes of the tubular fluids stimulate these osmoreceptors and ADH secre- epithelial cells of the collecting ducts are almost imper- tion whereas dilute body fluids inhibit them, providing meable to water. However, immediately inside the cell a powerful feedback control system for controlling the membrane are a large number of special vesicles that have total osmotic pressure of the body fluids. Further details highly water- permeable pores called aquaporins (see on the control of ADH secretion and the role of ADH in Figure 28- 19). When ADH acts on the cell, it first com- controlling renal function and body fluid osmolality are bines with membrane receptors that activate adenylyl presented in Chapter 29. cyclase and cause the formation of cAMP inside the tubu- lar cell cytoplasm. This formation causes phosphoryla- Low Blood Volume and Low Blood Pressure Stimu- tion of elements in the special vesicles, which then causes late ADH Secretion—Vasoconstrictor Effects
