Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tubu- lar cell cytoplasm. This formation causes phosphoryla- Low Blood Volume and Low Blood Pressure Stimu- tion of elements in the special vesicles, which then causes late ADH Secretion—Vasoconstrictor Effects of ADH. the vesicles to insert into the apical cell membranes, thus Whereas minute concentrations of ADH cause increased providing many areas of high water permeability. All this water conservation by the kidneys, higher concentra- occurs within 5 to 10 minutes. Then, in the absence of tions of ADH have a potent effect of constricting the ADH, the entire process reverses in another 5 to 10 min- arterioles throughout the body and therefore increasing utes. Thus, this process temporarily provides many new the arterial pressure. For this reason, ADH is also called pores that allow free diffusion of water from the tubular vasopressin. fluid through the tubular epithelial cells and into the renal One of the stimuli for causing intense ADH secretion interstitial fluid. Water is then absorbed from the collect- is decreased blood volume. This occurs strongly when the ing tubules and ducts by osmosis, as explained in Chapter blood volume decreases 15% to 25% or more; the secre- 29 in relation to the urine-c oncentrating mechanism of tory rate then sometimes rises to as high as 50 times the kidneys. normal. The atria have stretch receptors that are excited by REGULATION OF ANTIDIURETIC overfilling. When excited, they send signals to the brain HORMONE PRODUCTION to inhibit ADH secretion. Conversely, when the recep- tors are unexcited as a result of underfilling, the opposite Increased Extracellular Fluid Osmolarity Stimulates occurs, with greatly increased ADH secretion. Decreased ADH Secretion. When a concentrated electrolyte so- stretch of the baroreceptors of the carotid, aortic, and pul- lution is injected into the artery that supplies the hy- monary regions also stimulates ADH secretion. For fur- pothalamus, the ADH neurons in the supraoptic and ther details about this blood volume–pressure feedback paraventricular nuclei immediately transmit impulses mechanism, refer to Chapter 29. 939 These proofs may contain color figures. Those figures may print black and white in the final printed book if a color print product has not been planned. The color figures will appear in color in all electronic versions of this book. UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction PHYSIOLOGICAL FUNCTIONS OF Bibliography OXYTOCIN Aguiar- Oliveira MH, Bartke A: Growth hormone deficiency: health and longevity. Endocr Rev 40:575, 2019. Oxytocin Causes Contraction of the
