Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Bichet DG, Nielsen S, Nørgaard JP: The physiological and In lactation, oxytocin causes milk to be expressed from pathophysiological functions of renal and extrarenal vasopressin the alveoli into the ducts of the breast so that the baby can V2 receptors. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol 306:F931, 2014. obtain it by suckling. Knepper MA, Kwon TH, Nielsen S: Molecular physiology of water bal- ance. N Engl J Med 372:1349, 2015. This mechanism works as follows: The suckling stimu- Koshimizu TA, Nakamura K, Egashira N, et al: Vasopressin V1a and lus on the nipple of the breast causes signals to be trans- V1b receptors: from molecules to physiological systems. Physiol mitted through sensory nerves to the oxytocin neurons Rev 92:1813, 2012. in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei in the hypo- Melmed S: Pathogenesis and diagnosis of growth hormone deficien- thalamus, which causes release of oxytocin by the poste- cy in adults. N Engl J Med 380:2551, 2019. Perez- Castro C, Renner U, Haedo MR, et al: Cellular and molecular rior pituitary gland. The oxytocin is then carried by the specificity of pituitary gland physiology. Physiol Rev 92:1, 2012. blood to the breasts, where it causes contraction of myo- Storr HL, Chatterjee S, Metherell LA, et al: Nonclassical GH insensitiv- epithelial cells that lie outside of and form a latticework ity: characterization of mild abnormalities of GH action. Endocr Rev surrounding the alveoli of the mammary glands. In less 40:476, 2019. than a minute after the beginning of suckling, milk begins Tudor RM, Thompson CJ: Posterior pituitary dysfunction following traumatic brain injury: review. Pituitary 22:296, 2019. to flow. This mechanism is called milk letdown or milk ejection. It is discussed further in Chapter 83 in relation to the physiology of lactation. 940 These proofs may contain color figures. Those figures may print black and white in the final printed book if a color print product has not been planned. The color figures will appear in color in all electronic versions of this book. CHAPTER 7 7 Thyroid Metabolic Hormones The thyroid gland, located immediately below the lar- which contains the thyroid hormones. Once the secretion ynx on each side of and anterior to the trachea, is one has entered the follicles, it must be absorbed back through of the largest of the endocrine glands, normally weighing the follicular epithelium into the blood before it can func- 15 to 20 grams in adults. The
