Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


be absorbed back through of the largest of the endocrine glands, normally weighing the follicular epithelium into the blood before it can func- 15 to 20 grams in adults. The thyroid secretes two major tion in the body. The thyroid gland has a blood flow about metabolic hormones, thyroxine and triiodothyronine, five times the weight of the gland each minute, which is a commonly called T and T , respectively. Both of these blood supply as great as that of any other area of the body, 4 3 hormones profoundly increase the metabolic rate of the with the possible exception of the adrenal cortex. body. Complete lack of thyroid secretion usually causes The thyroid gland also contains C cells that secrete the basal metabolic rate to fall 40% to 50% below normal, calcitonin, a hormone that contributes to regulation of and extreme excesses of thyroid secretion can increase plasma calcium ion concentration, as discussed in Chap- the basal metabolic rate to 60% to 100% above normal. ter 80. Thyroid secretion is controlled primarily by thyroid- IODINE IS REQUIRED FOR THYROXINE stimulating hormone (TSH) secreted by the anterior pitu- FORMATION itary gland. The thyroid gland also secretes calcitonin, a hormone To form normal quantities of thyroxine, about 50 mil- involved in calcium metabolism that is discussed in Chap- ligrams of ingested iodine in the form of iodides are ter 80. required each year, or about 1 mg/week. To prevent The purpose of this chapter is to discuss the formation iodine deficiency, common table salt is iodized with and secretion of the thyroid hormones, their metabolic about 1 part sodium iodide to every 100,000 parts functions, and regulation of their secretion. sodium chloride. SYNTHESIS AND SECRETION OF THE Fate of Ingested Iodides. Iodides ingested orally are THYROID METABOLIC HORMONES absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract into the blood in about the same manner as chlorides. Normally, most of About 93% of the metabolically active hormones secreted the iodides are rapidly excreted by the kidneys, but only by the thyroid gland is thyroxine and 7% is triiodothy- after about one fifth are selectively removed from the cir- ronine. However, almost all the thyroxine is eventually culating blood by the cells of the thyroid gland and used converted to triiodothyronine in the tissues, so both are for synthesis of the thyroid hormones. functionally important. The functions of these two hor- IODIDE PUMP—THE SODIUM- IODIDE mones
