Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and used converted to triiodothyronine in the tissues, so both are for synthesis of the thyroid hormones. functionally important. The functions of these two hor- IODIDE PUMP—THE SODIUM- IODIDE mones are qualitatively the same, but they differ in rapid- SYMPORTER (IODIDE TRAPPING) ity and intensity of action. Triiodothyronine is about four times as potent as thyroxine, but it is present in the blood The first stage in formation of thyroid hormones, shown in much smaller quantities and persists for a much shorter in Figure 77-2 , is transport of iodides from the blood time compared with thyroxine. into the thyroid glandular cells and follicles. The basal membrane of the thyroid cell has the specific ability to PHYSIOLOGIC ANATOMY OF THE pump the iodide actively to the interior of the cell. This THYROID GLAND pumping is achieved by the action of a sodium-i odide As shown in Figure 77- 1, the thyroid gland is composed symporter, which co- transports one iodide ion along of large numbers of closed follicles (100–300 micrometers with two sodium ions across the basolateral (plasma) in diameter) that are filled with a secretory substance membrane into the cell. The energy for transporting called colloid and lined with cuboidal epithelial cells that iodide against a concentration gradient comes from the secrete into the interior of the follicles. The major con- sodium- potassium adenosine triphosphatase (Na+-K + stituent of colloid is the large glycoprotein thyroglobulin, ATPase) pump, which pumps sodium out of the cell, 941 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction thereby establishing a low intracellular sodium concen- This process of concentrating the iodide in the cell is tration and a gradient for facilitated diffusion of sodium called iodide trapping. In a normal gland, the iodide pump into the cell. concentrates the iodide to about 30 times its concentra- tion in the blood. When the thyroid gland becomes maxi- mally active, this concentration ratio can rise to as high as 250 times. The rate of iodide trapping by the thyroid is influenced by several factors, the most important being the concentration of TSH; TSH stimulates and hypoph- ysectomy greatly diminishes the activity of the iodide pump in thyroid cells. Iodide is transported out of the thyroid cells across Larynx the apical membrane into the follicle by a chloride- iodide ion counter- transporter molecule called pendrin. The thyroid epithelial cells also secrete into the fol- licle thyroglobulin that contains
