Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Larynx the apical membrane into the follicle by a chloride- iodide ion counter- transporter molecule called pendrin. The thyroid epithelial cells also secrete into the fol- licle thyroglobulin that contains tyrosine amino acids Thyroid gland to which the iodine will bind, as discussed in the next section. THYROGLOBULIN AND FORMATION OF THYROXINE AND TRIIODOTHYRONINE Trachea Formation and Secretion of Thyroglobulin by the Capillary Thyroid Cells. The thyroid cells are typical protein- secreting glandular cells, as shown in Figure 77- 2. The C cell endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus synthesize and secrete into the follicles a large glycoprotein molecule Follicle Cuboidal called thyroglobulin, with a molecular weight of about epithelial cells 335,000. Each molecule of thyroglobulin contains about 70 tyrosine amino acids, and they are the major substrates that combine with iodine to form the thyroid hormones. Red Colloid Thus, the thyroid hormones form within the thyroglobu- blood cells lin molecule. That is, the thyroxine and triiodothyronine hormones formed from the tyrosine amino acids remain part of the thyroglobulin molecule during synthesis of Figure 77- 1 Anatomy and microscopic appearance of the thyroid the thyroid hormones and even afterward as stored hor- gland, showing secretion of thyroglobulin into the follicles. mones in the follicular colloid. Na+ K+ NIS Cl– Pendrin I I– I– 2 Na+ H O 2 2 Peroxidase e Thyroglobulin sin precursor (T G) + Iodination yro T G and T Peroxidase coupling ER Golgi Figure 77-2 Thyroid cellular mechanisms for io- dine transport, thyroxine and triiodothyronine MIT, DIT MIT formation, and thyroxine and triiodothyronine re- DIT l d me oa ops ne la o si in omt do ic o tt r yh e re t oi c sb u inl lo u eo m ; d N;. II SD − ,,I T sio o, d dD i id uii eo m d io -o i n oty ; d r I i2o d,s e ii on sde ymi; n E e pR ; o , M r te eIn T r- , ; R T TT 33Secretion T T3 4 Proteases Colloid PinocT ytG osis R TT 43 T 3 RT 3, reverse triiodothyronine; T 3, triiodothyronine; 4 droplet T , thyroxine; T , thyroglobulin. 4 G 942 noitanidoieD Chapter 77 Thyroid Metabolic Hormones RELEASE OF THYROXINE AND Oxidation of the Iodide Ion. The first essential step in TRIIODOTHYRONINE FROM THE THYROID thyroid hormone formation is conversion
