Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


942 noitanidoieD Chapter 77 Thyroid Metabolic Hormones RELEASE OF THYROXINE AND Oxidation of the Iodide Ion. The first essential step in TRIIODOTHYRONINE FROM THE THYROID thyroid hormone formation is conversion of iodide ions GLAND to an oxidized form of iodine, either nascent iodine (I0) or I 3−, which is then capable of combining directly with the Most of the thyroglobulin is not released into the circu- amino acid tyrosine. This oxidation of iodine is promoted lating blood; instead, thyroxine and triiodothyronine are by the enzyme peroxidase and its accompanying hydro- cleaved from the thyroglobulin molecule, and then these gen peroxide, which provide a potent system capable of free hormones are released. This process occurs as fol- oxidizing iodides. The peroxidase is either located in the lows: The apical surface of thyroid cells sends out pseu- apical membrane of the cell or attached to it, thus pro- dopod extensions that close around small portions of the viding the oxidized iodine at exactly the point in the cell colloid to form pinocytic vesicles that enter the apex of the where the thyroglobulin molecule issues forth from the thyroid cell. Then lysosomes in the cell cytoplasm imme- Golgi apparatus and through the cell membrane into the diately fuse with these vesicles to form digestive vesicles stored thyroid gland colloid. When the peroxidase system containing digestive enzymes from the lysosomes mixed is blocked or when it is hereditarily absent from the cells, with the colloid. Multiple proteases among the enzymes the rate of formation of thyroid hormones falls to zero. digest the thyroglobulin molecules and release thyrox- ine and triiodothyronine in free form, which then diffuse Iodination of Tyrosine and Thyroid Hormone Forma- through the base of the thyroid cell into the surrounding tion—“Organification” of Thyroglobulin. The bind- capillaries. Thus, the thyroid hormones are released into ing of iodine with the thyroglobulin molecule is called the blood. organification of the thyroglobulin. Oxidized iodine even Some of the thyroglobulin in the colloid enters the thy- in the molecular form will bind directly but slowly with roid cell by endocytosis after binding to megalin, a pro- the amino acid tyrosine. In thyroid cells, however, the tein located on the lumen membrane of the cells. The oxidized iodine is associated with thyroid peroxidase en- megalin- thyroglobulin complex is then carried across the zyme (see Figure 77- 2) that causes the process to occur cell by transcytosis to
