Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


iodine is associated with thyroid peroxidase en- megalin- thyroglobulin complex is then carried across the zyme (see Figure 77- 2) that causes the process to occur cell by transcytosis to the basolateral membrane, where a within seconds or minutes. Therefore, almost as rapidly as thyroglobulin is released from the Golgi apparatus or Peroxidase as it is secreted through the apical cell membrane into the I + HO CH CHNH COOH 2 2 2 follicle, iodine binds with about one sixth of the tyrosine Tyrosine amino acids within the thyroglobulin molecule. Figure 77- 3 shows the successive stages of iodination of tyrosine and final formation of thyroxine and triiodo- HO CH CHNH COOH + thyronine. Tyrosine is first iodized to monoiodotyrosine 2 2 and then to diiodotyrosine. Then, during the next few Monoiodotyrosine minutes, hours, and even days, more and more of the iodotyrosine residues become coupled with one another. The major hormonal product of the coupling reaction HO CH 2 CHNH 2 COOH is the molecule thyroxine (T ), which is formed when two 4 molecules of diiodotyrosine are joined together; the thy- Diiodotyrosine roxine then remains part of the thyroglobulin molecule. Or Monoiodotyrosine + Diiodotyrosine one molecule of monoiodotyrosine couples with one mole- cule of diiodotyrosine to form triiodothyronine (T ), which 3 HO O CH CHNH COOH represents about one-fifteenth of the final hormones. Small 2 2 amounts of reverse T (RT ) are formed by coupling of 3 3 diiodotyrosine with monoiodotyrosine, but RT 3 does not 3,5,3'-Triiodothyronine (T 3) appear to be of functional significance in humans. Monoiodotyrosine + Diiodotyrosine Storage of Thyroglobulin. The thyroid gland is unusual HO O CH CHNH COOH among the endocrine glands in its ability to store large 2 2 amounts of hormone. After synthesis of the thyroid hor- mones has run its course, each thyroglobulin molecule 3,3',5'-Triiodothyronine (RT ) 3 contains up to 30 thyroxine molecules and a few triiodo- Diiodotyrosine + Diiodotyrosine thyronine molecules. In this form, the thyroid hormones are stored in the follicles in an amount sufficient to supply HO O CH CHNH COOH the body with its normal requirements of thyroid hor- 2 2 mones for 2 to 3 months. Therefore, when synthesis of Thyroxine (T ) thyroid hormone ceases, the physiological effects of defi- 4 ciency are not observed for several months. Figure 77- 3 Chemistry of thyroxine and triiodothyronine formation. 943 UNIT XIV UNIT
