Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


) thyroid hormone ceases, the physiological effects of defi- 4 ciency are not observed for several months. Figure 77- 3 Chemistry of thyroxine and triiodothyronine formation. 943 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction portion of the megalin remains bound to thyroglobulin +10 and is released into the capillary blood. About three-quarters of the iodinated tyrosine in the thyroglobulin never become thyroid hormones but +5 remain monoiodotyrosine and diiodotyrosine. During the digestion of the thyroglobulin molecule to cause release of thyroxine and triiodothyronine, these iodinated tyro- Thyroxine injected sines also are freed from the thyroglobulin molecules. 0 However, they are not secreted into the blood. Instead, 0 10 20 30 40 their iodine is cleaved from them by a deiodinase enzyme DDaayyss that makes virtually all this iodine available again for Figure 77- 4 Approximate prolonged effect on the basal metabolic recycling within the gland for forming additional thyroid rate caused by administering a single large dose of thyroxine. hormones. Congenital absence of this deiodinase enzyme may cause iodine deficiency because of failure of this before thyroxine activity begins. Once activity does begin, recycling process. it increases progressively and reaches a maximum in 10 to 12 days, as shown in Figure 77- 4. Thereafter, it decreases Daily Rate of Secretion of Thyroxine and Triiodo- with a half-l ife of about 15 days. Some of the activity per- thyronine. About 93% of the thyroid hormone released sists for as long as 6 weeks to 2 months. from the thyroid gland is normally thyroxine and only The actions of triiodothyronine occur about four times 7% is triiodothyronine. However, during the ensuing few as rapidly as those of thyroxine, with a latent period as days, about one-half of the thyroxine is slowly deiodinated short as 6 to 12 hours and maximal cellular activity occur- to form additional triiodothyronine. Therefore, the hor- ring within 2 to 3 days. mone finally delivered to and used by the tissues is mainly Most of the latency and the prolonged period of action triiodothyronine—a total of about 35 μg of triiodothyro- of these hormones are probably caused by their binding nine per day. with proteins both in the plasma and in the tissue cells, followed by their slow release. However, we shall see in TRANSPORT OF THYROXINE AND subsequent discussions that part of the latent period also TRIIODOTHYRONINE TO TISSUES results from the manner in which these hormones
