Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


release. However, we shall see in TRANSPORT OF THYROXINE AND subsequent discussions that part of the latent period also TRIIODOTHYRONINE TO TISSUES results from the manner in which these hormones per- form their functions in the cells. Thyroxine and Triiodothyronine Are Bound to Plasma Proteins. Upon entering the blood, more than 99% of the PHYSIOLOGICAL FUNCTIONS OF THE thyroxine and triiodothyronine combines immediately THYROID HORMONES with several of the plasma proteins, all of which are syn- thesized by the liver. They combine mainly with thyroxine- THYROID HORMONES INCREASE binding globulin and much less so with thyroxine- binding TRANSCRIPTION OF MANY GENES prealbumin and albumin. The general effect of thyroid hormone is to activate Thyroxine and Triiodothyronine Are Released Slowly nuclear transcription of many genes (Figure 77- 5). to Tissue Cells. Because of high affinity of the plasma- Therefore, in virtually all cells of the body, great numbers binding proteins for the thyroid hormones, these sub- of protein enzymes, structural proteins, transport pro- stances—in particular, thyroxine—are released to the tis- teins, and other substances are synthesized. The net result sue cells slowly. Half the thyroxine in the blood is released is a generalized increase in functional activity throughout to the tissue cells about every 6 days, whereas half the trii- the body. odothyronine—because of its lower affinity—is released to the cells in about 1 day. Most of the Thyroxine Secreted by the Thyroid Is Upon entering the tissue cells, both thyroxine and tri- Converted to Triiodothyronine. Before acting on the iodothyronine again bind with intracellular proteins, with genes to increase genetic transcription, one iodide is re- the thyroxine binding more strongly than the triiodothy- moved from almost all the thyroxine, thus forming trii- ronine. Therefore, they are again stored, but this time in odothyronine. Intracellular thyroid hormone receptors the target cells, and they are used slowly over a period of have a high affinity for triiodothyronine. Consequently, days or weeks. more than 90% of the thyroid hormone that binds with the receptors is triiodothyronine. Thyroid Hormones Have Slow Onset and Long Duration of Action. After injection of a large quantity Thyroid Hormones Activate Nuclear Receptors. of thyroxine into a human being, essentially no effect Thyroid hormone receptors are either attached to on the metabolic rate can be discerned for 2 to 3 days, the DNA genetic strands or located in proximity to thereby demonstrating that there is a long latent period
