Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


on the metabolic rate can be discerned for 2 to 3 days, the DNA genetic strands or located in proximity to thereby demonstrating that there is a long latent period them. The thyroid hormone receptor usually forms a 944 etar cilobatem lasaB Chapter 77 Thyroid Metabolic Hormones T 4 T 3 CCeellll mmeemmbbrraannee DDeeiiooddiinnaassee CCyyttooppllaassmm T T 3 3 TThhyyrrooiidd NNuucclleeaarr Retinoid X hhoorrmmoonnee mmeemmbbrraannee receptor rreecceeppttoorr Gene TThhyyrrooiidd hhoorrmmoonnee rreessppoonnssee eelleemmeenntt NNuucclleeuuss GGeennee ttrraannssccrriippttiioonn mmRRNNAA SSyynntthheessiiss ooff nneeww pprrootteeiinnss MMaannyy ootthheerr CCNNSS GGrroowwtthh CCaarrddiioovvaassccuullaarr MMeettaabboolliissmm ssyysstteemmss ddeevveellooppmmeenntt ↑↑ CCaarrddiiaacc oouuttppuutt ↑↑ MMiittoocchhoonnddrriiaa ↑↑ TTiissssuuee bblloooodd ffllooww↑↑ NNaa++--KK++--AATTPPaassee ↑↑ HHeeaarrtt rraattee ↑↑ OO ccoonnssuummppttiioonn 22 ↑↑ HHeeaarrtt ssttrreennggtthh ↑↑ GGlluuccoossee aabbssoorrppttiioonn ↑↑ RReessppiirraattiioonn ↑↑ GGlluuccoonneeooggeenneessiiss ↑↑ GGllyyccooggeennoollyyssiiss ↑↑ LLiippoollyyssiiss ↑↑ PPrrootteeiinn ssyynntthheessiiss ↑↑ BBMMRR Figure 77- 5 Thyroid hormone activation of target cells. Thyroxine (T ) and triiodothyronine (T ) enter the cell membrane by a carrier- mediated 4 3 adenosine triphosphate–dependent transport process. Much of the T is deiodinated to form T , which interacts with the thyroid hormone 4 3 receptor, bound as a heterodimer with a retinoid X receptor, of the thyroid hormone response element of the gene. This action causes either increases or decreases in transcription of genes that lead to the formation of proteins, thus producing the thyroid hormone response of the cell. The actions of thyroid hormone on cells of several different systems are shown. BMR, Basal metabolic rate; CNS, central nervous system; mRNA, messenger ribonucleic acid; Na+- K+- ATPase, sodium–potassium–adenosine triphosphatase. heterodimer with retinoid X receptor (RXR) at specific Thyroid hormones also appear to have nongenomic cel- thyroid hormone response elements on the DNA. After lular effects that are independent of their effects on gene binding with thyroid hormone, the receptors become transcription. For example, some effects of thyroid hor- activated and initiate the transcription process. Large mones occur within minutes, too rapidly to be explained numbers of different types of messenger RNA are then by changes in protein synthesis, and are not affected by formed, followed within another few minutes or hours inhibitors of gene transcription and translation. Such by RNA translation on the cytoplasmic ribosomes to actions have been described in several tissues, including form hundreds of new intracellular proteins. However, the heart and pituitary, as well as adipose tissue. The site not all the proteins are increased by similar percent- of nongenomic thyroid hormone action appears to be ages—some are
