Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the heart and pituitary, as well as adipose tissue. The site not all the proteins are increased by similar percent- of nongenomic thyroid hormone action appears to be ages—some are increased only slightly, and others at the plasma membrane, cytoplasm, and perhaps some cell least as much as sixfold. Most of the actions of thyroid organelles such as mitochondria. Nongenomic actions of hormone result from the subsequent enzymatic and thyroid hormone include regulation of ion channels and other functions of these new proteins. oxidative phosphorylation and appear to involve activa- tion of intracellular secondary messengers such as cyclic 945 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) or protein kinase sig- more rapidly and the epiphyses close at an early age, so naling cascades. the duration of growth and the eventual height of the adult actually may be shortened. THYROID HORMONES INCREASE An important effect of thyroid hormone is to promote CELLULAR METABOLIC ACTIVITY growth and development of the brain during fetal life and Thyroid hormones increase the metabolic activities of for the first few years of postnatal life. If the fetus does not almost all the tissues of the body. The basal metabolic rate secrete sufficient quantities of thyroid hormone, growth can increase to 60% to 100% above normal when large and maturation of the brain both before birth and after- quantities of thyroid hormones are secreted. The rate ward are greatly retarded and the brain remains smaller of utilization of foods for energy is greatly accelerated. than normal. Without specific thyroid therapy within days Although the rate of protein synthesis is increased, at the or weeks after birth, the child without a thyroid gland will same time the rate of protein catabolism is also increased. remain mentally deficient throughout life. This condition The growth rate of young people is greatly accelerated. is discussed later in the chapter. The mental processes are excited, and the activities of most of the other endocrine glands are increased. EFFECTS OF THYROID HORMONE ON SPECIFIC BODY FUNCTIONS Thyroid Hormones Increase the Number and Activity of Mitochondria. When thyroxine or triiodothyronine is Stimulation of Carbohydrate Metabolism. Thy- given to an animal, the mitochondria in most cells of the roid hormone stimulates almost all aspects of carbo- animal’s body increase in size and number. Furthermore, hydrate metabolism, including rapid glucose uptake by the total membrane surface area of the mitochondria cells, enhanced glycolysis,
