Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


all aspects of carbo- animal’s body increase in size and number. Furthermore, hydrate metabolism, including rapid glucose uptake by the total membrane surface area of the mitochondria cells, enhanced glycolysis, enhanced gluconeogenesis, in- increases almost directly in proportion to the increased creased rate of absorption from the gastrointestinal tract, metabolic rate of the whole animal. Therefore, one of the and even increased insulin secretion with its resultant principal functions of thyroxine might be simply to in- secondary effects on carbohydrate metabolism. All these crease the number and activity of mitochondria, which in effects probably result from the overall increase in cellular turn increases the rate of formation of adenosine triphos- metabolic enzymes caused by thyroid hormone. phate to energize cellular function. However, increases in the number and activity of mitochondria could be the Stimulation of Fat Metabolism. Essentially all aspects result of increased activity of the cells, as well as the cause of fat metabolism are also enhanced by thyroid hormone. of the increase. In particular, lipids are mobilized rapidly from the fat tis- sue, which decreases fat stores of the body to a greater Thyroid Hormones Increase Active Transport of Ions extent than almost any other tissue element. Mobilization Through Cell Membranes. One of the enzymes that of lipids from fat tissue also increases free fatty acid con- increases its activity in response to thyroid hormone is centration in the plasma and greatly accelerates oxidation Na+-K + ATPase. This increased activity in turn increas- of free fatty acids by the cells. es the rate of transport of sodium and potassium ions through the cell membranes of some tissues. Because Effect on Plasma and Liver Fats. Increased thyroid this process uses energy and increases the amount of hormone decreases the concentrations of cholesterol, heat produced in the body, it has been suggested that this phospholipids, and triglycerides in the plasma, even might be one of the mechanisms by which thyroid hor- though it increases the free fatty acids. Conversely, de- mone increases the body’s metabolic rate. In fact, thyroid creased thyroid secretion greatly increases the plasma hormone also causes the cell membranes of most cells to concentrations of cholesterol, phospholipids, and tri- become leaky to sodium ions, which further activates the glycerides and almost always causes excessive deposition sodium pump and further increases heat production. of fat in the liver as well. The large increase in circulating plasma cholesterol in
