Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the glycerides and almost always causes excessive deposition sodium pump and further increases heat production. of fat in the liver as well. The large increase in circulating plasma cholesterol in prolonged hypothyroidism is often EFFECT OF THYROID HORMONE ON associated with severe atherosclerosis, as discussed in GROWTH Chapter 69. Thyroid hormone has both general and specific effects on One of the mechanisms by which thyroid hormone growth. For example, it has long been known that thyroid decreases plasma cholesterol concentration is to increase hormone is essential for the metamorphic change of the significantly cholesterol secretion in the bile and con- tadpole into the frog. sequent loss in the feces. A possible mechanism for the In humans, the effect of thyroid hormone on growth increased cholesterol secretion is that thyroid hormone is manifest mainly in growing children. In children with induces increased numbers of low- density lipoprotein hypothyroidism, the rate of growth is greatly retarded. In receptors on the liver cells, leading to rapid removal of children with hyperthyroidism, excessive skeletal growth low- density lipoproteins from the plasma by the liver and often occurs, causing the child to become considerably subsequent secretion of cholesterol in these lipoproteins taller at an earlier age. However, the bones also mature by the liver cells. 946 Chapter 77 Thyroid Metabolic Hormones +30 more above normal when excessive thyroid hormone is present and falling to only 50% of normal in severe hypo- +20 thyroidism. +10 Hyperthyroid Normal Increased Heart Rate. The heart rate increases consid- 0 erably more under the influence of thyroid hormone than would be expected from the increase in cardiac output. –10 Therefore, thyroid hormone seems to have a direct effect on the excitability of the heart, which in turn increases –20 the heart rate. This effect is especially important because the heart rate is one of the sensitive physical signs that the –30 Hypothyroid clinician uses in determining whether a patient has exces- –40 sive or diminished thyroid hormone production. –45 0 100 200 300 Increased Heart Strength. A slight excess of thyroid TThhyyrrooiidd hhoorrmmoonnee sseeccrreettiioonn ((mmgg//ddaayy)) hormone can increase the strength of the heart. This ef- Figure 77- 6 Approximate relation of the daily rate of thyroid hor- fect is analogous to the increase in heart strength that oc- mone (T , triiodothyronine, and T , thyroxine) secretion to percent 3 4 curs in mild fevers and during exercise. However, when
