Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to the increase in heart strength that oc- mone (T , triiodothyronine, and T , thyroxine) secretion to percent 3 4 curs in mild fevers and during exercise. However, when change in basal metabolic rate, compared with normal. thyroid hormone is increased markedly, heart muscle strength becomes depressed because of long- term exces- Increased Requirement for Vitamins. Because thyroid sive protein catabolism. Indeed, some severely thyrotoxic hormone increases the quantities of many bodily enzymes patients die of cardiac decompensation secondary to my- and because vitamins are essential parts of some of the ocardial failure and increased cardiac workload imposed enzymes or coenzymes, thyroid hormone increases the by the increase in cardiac output. need for vitamins. Therefore, a relative vitamin deficiency can occur when excess thyroid hormone is secreted, un- Normal Arterial Pressure. The mean arterial pressure less at the same time increased quantities of vitamins are usually remains about normal after administration of thy- made available. roid hormone. Because of increased blood flow through the tissues between heartbeats, the pulse pressure is often Increased Basal Metabolic Rate. Because thyroid hor- increased, with the systolic pressure elevated 10 to 15 mm mone increases metabolism in almost all cells of the body, Hg in hyperthyroidism and the diastolic pressure reduced excessive quantities of the hormone can occasionally in- a corresponding amount. crease the basal metabolic rate by 60% to 100% above nor- mal. Conversely, when no thyroid hormone is produced, Increased Respiration. The increased rate of metabo- the basal metabolic rate falls to almost one-h alf of normal. lism increases oxygen utilization and carbon dioxide for- Figure 77- 6 shows the approximate relation between the mation; these effects activate all the mechanisms that in- daily supply of thyroid hormones and the basal metabolic crease the rate and depth of respiration. rate. Extreme amounts of the hormones are required to cause high basal metabolic rates. Increased Gastrointestinal Motility. In addition to increased appetite and food intake, which has been dis- Decreased Body Weight. A greatly increased amount cussed, thyroid hormone increases secretion of digestive of thyroid hormone almost always decreases body weight, juices and motility of the gastrointestinal tract. Hyperthy- and a greatly decreased amount of thyroid hormone al- roidism therefore often results in diarrhea, whereas lack most always increases body weight. However, these ef- of thyroid hormone can cause constipation. fects do not always occur because thyroid hormone also increases the appetite,
