Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in diarrhea, whereas lack most always increases body weight. However, these ef- of thyroid hormone can cause constipation. fects do not always occur because thyroid hormone also increases the appetite, which may counterbalance the Excitatory Effects on the Central Nervous System. In change in the metabolic rate. general, thyroid hormone increases the rapidity of cer- ebration, although thought processes may be dissociated; Increased Blood Flow and Cardiac Output. Increased conversely, lack of thyroid hormone decreases rapidity of metabolism in the tissues causes more rapid utilization cerebration. A person with hyperthyroidism is likely to be of oxygen than normal and increased release of meta- extremely nervous and have many psychoneurotic ten- bolic end products from the tissues. These effects cause dencies, such as anxiety complexes, extreme worry, and vasodilation in most body tissues, thus increasing blood paranoia. flow. The rate of blood flow in the skin especially increases because of the increased need for heat elimination from Effect on the Function of the Muscles. A slight in- the body. As a consequence of the increased blood flow, crease in thyroid hormone usually makes the muscles re- cardiac output also increases, sometimes rising to 60% or act with vigor but, with excessive thyroid hormone, the 947 etar cilobatem lasaB )egnahc %( UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction muscles become weakened because of excess protein ca- still more confusing, in women with hyperthyroidism, oli- tabolism. Conversely, lack of thyroid hormone causes the gomenorrhea (greatly reduced bleeding) is common, and muscles to become sluggish, and they relax slowly after a occasionally amenorrhea occurs. contraction. The action of thyroid hormone on the gonads can- not be pinpointed to a specific function but probably Muscle Tremor. One of the most characteristic signs of results from a combination of direct metabolic effects on hyperthyroidism is a fine muscle tremor. This symptom is the gonads, as well as excitatory and inhibitory feedback not the coarse tremor that occurs in Parkinson’s disease effects operating through the anterior pituitary hormones or when a person shivers because it occurs at the rapid that control sexual functions. frequency of 10 to 15 times per second. The tremor can be observed easily by placing a sheet of paper on the extend- REGULATION OF THYROID HORMONE ed fingers and noting the degree of vibration of the paper. SECRETION This tremor is believed to be caused by increased reac- tivity of the neuronal synapses
