Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


OF THYROID HORMONE ed fingers and noting the degree of vibration of the paper. SECRETION This tremor is believed to be caused by increased reac- tivity of the neuronal synapses in the areas of the spinal To maintain normal levels of metabolic activity in the cord that control muscle tone. The tremor is an important body, precisely the right amount of thyroid hormone means for assessing the degree of thyroid hormone effect must be secreted at all times; to achieve this ideal level of on the central nervous system. secretion, specific feedback mechanisms operate through the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary gland to con- Effect on Sleep. Because of the exhausting effect of trol the rate of thyroid secretion. These mechanisms are thyroid hormone on the musculature and on the central described in the following sections. nervous system, persons with hyperthyroidism often have TSH (FROM THE ANTERIOR PITUITARY a feeling of constant tiredness, but because of the excit- GLAND) INCREASES THYROID SECRETION able effects of thyroid hormone on the synapses, it is dif- ficult to sleep. Conversely, extreme somnolence is charac- TSH, also known as thyrotropin, is an anterior pituitary teristic of hypothyroidism, with sleep sometimes lasting hormone; it is a glycoprotein with a molecular weight of 12 to 14 hours a day. about 28,000. This hormone, also discussed in Chapter 75, increases secretion of thyroxine and triiodothyronine by Effect on Other Endocrine Glands. Increased thyroid the thyroid gland. It has the following specific effects on hormone increases the secretion rates of several other the thyroid gland: endocrine glands, but it also increases the need of the 1. Increased proteolysis of thyroglobulin that has al- tissues for the hormones. For example, increased thyrox- ready been stored in the follicles, releasing the thy- ine secretion increases the rate of glucose metabolism roid hormones into the circulating blood and di- almost everywhere in the body and therefore causes a minishing the follicular substance corresponding need for increased insulin secretion by the 2. Increased activity of the iodide pump, which in- pancreas. Also, thyroid hormone increases many meta- creases the rate of “iodide trapping” in the glandular bolic activities related to bone formation and, as a con- cells, sometimes increasing the ratio of intracellular sequence, increases the need for parathyroid hormone. to extracellular iodide concentration in the glandu- Thyroid hormone also increases the rate at which adrenal lar substance to as much as eight
