Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sequence, increases the need for parathyroid hormone. to extracellular iodide concentration in the glandu- Thyroid hormone also increases the rate at which adrenal lar substance to as much as eight times normal glucocorticoids are inactivated by the liver. This increased 3. Increased iodination of tyrosine to form the thyroid rate of inactivation leads to feedback increase in adreno- hormones corticotropic hormone production by the anterior pitui- 4. Increased size and increased secretory activity of the tary and, therefore, an increased rate of glucocorticoid thyroid cells secretion by the adrenal glands. 5. Increased number of thyroid cells plus a change from cuboidal to columnar cells and much infold- Effect of Thyroid Hormone on Sexual Function. For ing of the thyroid epithelium into the follicles normal sexual function, thyroid secretion needs to be ap- In summary, TSH increases all the known secretory proximately normal. In men, lack of thyroid hormone is activities of the thyroid glandular cells. likely to cause loss of libido; a great excess of the hormone, The most important early effect after administration however, sometimes causes impotence. of TSH is to initiate proteolysis of thyroglobulin, which In women, lack of thyroid hormone often causes causes release of thyroxine and triiodothyronine into the menorrhagia and polymenorrhea—that is, excessive and blood within 30 minutes. The other effects require hours frequent menstrual bleeding, respectively. Yet, strangely or even days and weeks to develop fully. enough, in other women a lack of thyroid hormone may cause irregular periods and occasionally even amenor- Cyclic Adenosine Monophosphate Mediates the rhea (absence of menstrual bleeding). Stimulatory Effect of TSH. Most of the varied effects Hypothyroidism in women, as in men, is likely to of TSH on the thyroid cell result from activation of the result in a greatly decreased libido. To make the picture “second messenger” cAMP system of the cell. 948 Chapter 77 Thyroid Metabolic Hormones The first event in this activation is binding of TSH with Hypothalamus (decreased temperature) specific TSH receptors on the basal membrane surfaces of the thyroid cell. This binding then activates adenylyl cyclase in the membrane, which increases formation of Thyrotropin-releasing cAMP inside the cell. Finally, cAMP acts as a second mes- hormone senger to activate protein kinase, which causes multiple phosphorylations throughout the cell. The result is both Anterior an immediate increase in secretion of thyroid hormones pituitary and prolonged growth of the thyroid glandular tissue. This method for
