Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


multiple phosphorylations throughout the cell. The result is both Anterior an immediate increase in secretion of thyroid hormones pituitary and prolonged growth of the thyroid glandular tissue. This method for control of thyroid cell activity is simi- lar to the function of cAMP as a “second messenger” in Thyroid- many other target tissues of the body, as discussed in stimulating Chapter 75. T 3, T 4 hormone T 3, T 4 ANTERIOR PITUITARY SECRETION OF Hypertrophy TSH IS REGULATED BY THYROTROPIN- Increased RELEASING HORMONE FROM THE metabolism Thyroxine Increased secretion HYPOTHALAMUS Anterior pituitary secretion of TSH is controlled by a hypothalamic hormone, thyrotropin- releasing hormone Cells Thyroid Iodine (TRH), which is synthesized by neurons in the paraven- Figure 77- 7 Regulation of thyroid secretion. T 3, triiodothyronine; T 4, tricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus and secreted thyroxine. from their nerve endings in the median eminence of the hypothalamus. From the median eminence, TRH is TRH neurons in the PVN receive input from leptin- then transported to the anterior pituitary by way of the responsive neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamic- hypophysial portal blood, as explained in hypothalamus that regulate energy balance—the neu- Chapter 75. ropeptide Y (NPY)/agouti-r elated protein (AGRP) and TRH is a tripeptide amide—pyroglutamyl- histidyl- pro-o piomelanocortin (POMC) neurons which were dis- proline- amide. TRH stimulates the anterior pituitary cussed in Chapter 72. Prolonged fasting reduces plasma gland cells to increase their output of TSH. When the leptin levels which, in turn, decreases POMC activity blood portal system from the hypothalamus to the ante- and increases NPY/AGRP neuronal activity. Decreased rior pituitary gland becomes blocked, the rate of secretion levels of leptin may also directly inhibit TRH neurons. of TSH by the anterior pituitary decreases greatly but is Together these effects reduce expression of TRH, TSH, not reduced to zero. and thyroid hormone secretion, contributing to reduced The molecular mechanism by which TRH causes TSH- metabolic rate and conservation of energy when food secreting cells of the anterior pituitary to produce TSH supplies are scarce. is first to bind with TRH receptors in the pituitary cell Various emotional reactions can also affect the out- membrane. This binding in turn activates the phospholi- put of TRH and TSH and therefore indirectly affect the pase second messenger system inside the pituitary cells to secretion of thyroid hormones. Excitement and anxiety— produce large amounts of phospholipase C, followed
