Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and TSH and therefore indirectly affect the pase second messenger system inside the pituitary cells to secretion of thyroid hormones. Excitement and anxiety— produce large amounts of phospholipase C, followed by conditions that greatly stimulate the sympathetic nervous a cascade of other second messengers, including calcium system—cause an acute decrease in secretion of TSH, ions and diacyl glycerol, which eventually leads to TSH perhaps because these states increase the metabolic rate release. and body heat and therefore exert an inverse effect on the heat control center. Effects of Cold and Other Neurogenic Stimuli on TRH and TSH Secretion. One of the best- known stimuli FEEDBACK EFFECT OF THYROID HORMONE TO DECREASE ANTERIOR for increasing TRH secretion by the hypothalamus, and PITUITARY SECRETION OF TSH therefore TSH secretion by the anterior pituitary gland, is exposure of an animal to cold. This effect almost cer- Increased thyroid hormone in the body fluids decreases tainly results from excitation of the hypothalamic centers TSH secretion by the anterior pituitary. When the rate for body temperature control. Exposure of rats for several of thyroid hormone secretion rises to about 1.75 times weeks to severe cold increases the output of thyroid hor- normal, the rate of TSH secretion falls essentially to zero. mones sometimes to more than 100% of normal and can Almost all this feedback depressant effect occurs even increase the basal metabolic rate as much as 50%. Indeed, when the anterior pituitary has been separated from persons moving to arctic regions have been known to the hypothalamus. Therefore, as shown in Figure 77-7 , develop basal metabolic rates that are 15% to 20% above it is probable that increased thyroid hormone inhibits normal. anterior pituitary secretion of TSH mainly by a direct 949 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction effect on the anterior pituitary gland. However, there the thyroid gland and especially decrease its blood supply, is also evidence for negative feedback effects of thyroid in contradistinction to the opposite effects caused by most hormone to inhibit thyrotropin releasing hormone by of the other antithyroid agents. For this reason, iodides are frequently administered to patients for 2 to 3 weeks before the hypothalamus. Regardless of the mechanism, this surgical removal of the thyroid gland to decrease the nec- feedback maintains an almost constant concentration essary amount of surgery, and especially to decrease the of free thyroid hormones in the circulating body fluids. amount
