Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


gland to decrease the nec- feedback maintains an almost constant concentration essary amount of surgery, and especially to decrease the of free thyroid hormones in the circulating body fluids. amount of bleeding. Diseases of the Thyroid Antithyroid Substances Suppress Thyroid Secretion Hyperthyroidism The best known antithyroid drugs are thiocyanate, pro- pylthiouracil, and high concentrations of inorganic iodides. Most effects of hyperthyroidism are obvious from the pre- The mechanism by which each of these drugs blocks thy- ceding discussion of the various physiological effects of roid secretion is different from the others and can be ex- thyroid hormone. However, some specific effects should be plained as follows. mentioned, especially in connection with the development, Thiocyanate Ions Decrease Iodide Trapping. The same diagnosis, and treatment of hyperthyroidism. Causes of Hyperthyroidism (Toxic Goiter, Thyrotoxico- active pump that transports iodide ions into the thyroid cells can also pump thiocyanate ions, perchlorate ions, and ni- sis, Graves’ Disease). In most patients with hyperthyroid- trate ions. Therefore, administration of thiocyanate (or one ism, the thyroid gland is increased to two to three times its of the other ions as well) in a high enough concentration normal size, with tremendous hyperplasia and infolding of can cause competitive inhibition of iodide transport into the the follicular cell lining into the follicles, so the number of cell—that is, inhibition of the iodide- trapping mechanism. cells is increased greatly. Also, each cell increases its rate The decreased availability of iodide in the glandular cells of secretion severalfold; radioactive iodine uptake studies does not stop the formation of thyroglobulin; it merely pre- indicate that some of these hyperplastic glands secrete thy- vents the thyroglobulin that is formed from becoming iodi- roid hormone at rates 5 to 15 times normal. nated and therefore from forming thyroid hormones. This Graves’ disease, the most common form of hyperthy- deficiency of thyroid hormones in turn leads to increased roidism, is an autoimmune disease in which antibodies secretion of TSH by the anterior pituitary gland, which called thyroid- stimulating immunoglobulins (TSIs) form causes overgrowth of the thyroid gland even though the against the TSH receptor in the thyroid gland. These anti- gland still does not form adequate quantities of thyroid hor- bodies bind with the same membrane receptors that bind mones. Therefore, the use of thiocyanates and some other TSH and induce continual activation of the cAMP system ions to block thyroid secretion can lead to
