Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


membrane receptors that bind mones. Therefore, the use of thiocyanates and some other TSH and induce continual activation of the cAMP system ions to block thyroid secretion can lead to the development of the cells, with resultant development of hyperthyroid- of a greatly enlarged thyroid gland, which is called a goiter. ism. The TSI antibodies have a prolonged stimulating effect Propylthiouracil Decreases Thyroid Hormone Forma- on the thyroid gland, lasting for as long as 12 hours, in con- tion. Propylthiouracil (along with other similar com- trast to a little over 1 hour for TSH. The high level of thy- pounds, such as methimazole and carbimazole) prevents roid hormone secretion caused by TSI in turn suppresses formation of thyroid hormone from iodides and tyrosine. anterior pituitary TSH formation. Therefore, TSH concen- The mechanism of this action is partly to block the peroxi- trations are less than normal (often essentially zero) rather dase enzyme that is required for iodination of tyrosine and than enhanced in almost all patients with Graves’ disease. partly to block the coupling of two iodinated tyrosines to The antibodies that cause hyperthyroidism almost cer- form thyroxine or triiodothyronine. tainly occur as the result of autoimmunity that has devel- Propylthiouracil, like thiocyanate, does not prevent for- oped against thyroid tissue. Presumably, at some time in mation of thyroglobulin. The absence of thyroxine and trii- the person’s history, an excess of thyroid cell antigens was odothyronine in the thyroglobulin can lead to tremendous released from the thyroid cells, resulting in formation of feedback enhancement of TSH secretion by the anterior antibodies against the thyroid gland. pituitary gland, thus promoting growth of the glandular tis- Thyroid Adenoma. Hyperthyroidism occasionally results sue and forming a goiter. from a localized adenoma (a tumor) that develops in the thy- Iodides in High Concentrations Decrease Thyroid Activ- roid tissue and secretes large quantities of thyroid hormone. ity and Thyroid Gland Size. When iodides are present in the This presentation is different from the more usual type of blood in a high concentration (100 times the normal plasma hyperthyroidism in that it is usually not associated with evi- level), most activities of the thyroid gland are decreased, dence of any autoimmune disease. As long as the adenoma but often they remain decreased for only a few weeks. The continues to secrete large quantities of thyroid hormone, se- effect is to reduce the rate of iodide trapping
