Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


adenoma but often they remain decreased for only a few weeks. The continues to secrete large quantities of thyroid hormone, se- effect is to reduce the rate of iodide trapping so that the rate cretory function in the remainder of the thyroid gland is al- of iodination of tyrosine to form thyroid hormones is also most totally inhibited because thyroid hormone from the ad- decreased. Even more important, the normal endocytosis enoma depresses production of TSH by the pituitary gland. of colloid from the follicles by the thyroid glandular cells is Symptoms of Hyperthyroidism paralyzed by the high iodide concentrations. Because this is the first step in release of thyroid hormones from the stor- The symptoms of hyperthyroidism are obvious from the age colloid, there is almost immediate shutdown of thyroid preceding discussion of the physiology of the thyroid hormone secretion into the blood. hormones: (1) a high state of excitability, (2) intoler- Because iodides in high concentrations decrease all ance to heat, (3) increased sweating, (4) mild to extreme phases of thyroid activity, they slightly decrease the size of weight loss (sometimes as much as 100 pounds), (5) 950 Chapter 77 Thyroid Metabolic Hormones pressed by the large amounts of circulating thyroxine and triiodothyronine that there is almost no plasma TSH. 3. The concentration of TSI is measured by immunoassay. This concentration is usually high in thyrotoxicosis but low in thyroid adenoma. Treatment in Hyperthyroidism. The most direct treat- ment for hyperthyroidism is surgical removal of most of the thyroid gland. In general, it is desirable to prepare the pa- tient for surgical removal of the gland before the operation by administering propylthiouracil, usually for several weeks, until the basal metabolic rate of the patient has returned to normal. Then, administration of high concentrations of io- dides for 1 to 2 weeks immediately before operation causes the gland to recede in size and its blood supply to diminish. With use of these preoperative procedures, the operative mortality is less than 1 in 1000, whereas before the develop- ment of modern procedures, operative mortality was 1 in 25. Treatment of the Hyperplastic Thyroid Gland With Radioactive Iodine. Eighty to 90% of an injected dose of iodide is absorbed by the hyperplastic, toxic thyroid gland within 1 day after injection. If this injected iodine is ra- dioactive, it can destroy most of the secretory cells of the Figure 77- 8 A
