Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


hyperplastic, toxic thyroid gland within 1 day after injection. If this injected iodine is ra- dioactive, it can destroy most of the secretory cells of the Figure 77- 8 A patient with exophthalmic hyperthyroidism. Note pro- trusion of the eyes and retraction of the superior eyelids. Her basal thyroid gland. Usually 5 millicuries of radioactive iodine is metabolic rate was +40. (Courtesy Dr. Leonard Posey.) given to the patient, whose condition is reassessed several weeks later. If the patient is still in a hyperthyroid state, ad- ditional doses are administered until normal thyroid status varying degrees of diarrhea, (6) muscle weakness, (7) is reached. nervousness or other psychic disorders, (8) extreme fa- Hypothyroidism tigue but inability to sleep, and (9) tremor of the hands. Exophthalmos. Most people with hyperthyroidism ex- The effects of hypothyroidism, in general, are opposite to hibit some degree of protrusion of the eyeballs, as shown in those of hyperthyroidism, but a few physiological mecha- Figure 77- 8. This condition is called exophthalmos. A ma- nisms are peculiar to hypothyroidism. Hypothyroidism, jor degree of exophthalmos occurs in about one-third of pa- like hyperthyroidism, is often initiated by autoimmun- tients with hyperthyroidism, with the condition sometimes ity against the thyroid gland (Hashimoto’s disease), but in becoming so severe that the eyeball protrusion stretches this case the autoimmunity destroys the gland rather than the optic nerve enough to damage vision. Much more of- stimulates it. The thyroid glands of most of these patients ten, the eyes are damaged because the eyelids do not close first demonstrate autoimmune “thyroiditis,” which means completely when the person blinks or is asleep. As a result, thyroid inflammation. Thyroiditis causes progressive de- the epithelial surfaces of the eyes become dry and irritated terioration and finally fibrosis of the gland, with resultant and often infected, resulting in ulceration of the cornea. diminished or absent secretion of thyroid hormone. Sev- The cause of the protruding eyes is edematous swelling eral other types of hypothyroidism also occur that are often of the retro- orbital tissues and degenerative changes in the associated with development of enlarged thyroid glands, extraocular muscles. In most patients, immunoglobulins called thyroid goiter, as described in the following sections. that react with the eye muscles can be found in the blood. Endemic Colloid Goiter Caused by Dietary Iodide Defi- Furthermore, the concentration of these immunoglobulins ciency. The term “goiter” means a greatly enlarged thyroid
