Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


muscles can be found in the blood. Endemic Colloid Goiter Caused by Dietary Iodide Defi- Furthermore, the concentration of these immunoglobulins ciency. The term “goiter” means a greatly enlarged thyroid is usually highest in patients who have high concentrations gland. As pointed out in the discussion of iodine metabo- of TSIs. Therefore, exophthalmos, like hyperthyroidism, is lism, about 50 milligrams of iodine are required each year likely an autoimmune process. The exophthalmos is usually for the formation of adequate quantities of thyroid hor- greatly ameliorated with treatment of the hyperthyroidism. mone. In certain areas of the world, notably in the Swiss Diagnostic Tests for Hyperthyroidism. For the usual Alps, the Andes, and the Great Lakes region of the United case of hyperthyroidism, the most accurate diagnostic test States, insufficient iodine is present in the soil for the food- is direct measurement of the concentration of “free” thy- stuffs to contain even this minute quantity. Therefore, in roxine (and sometimes triiodothyronine) in the plasma, us- the days before iodized table salt, many people who lived ing appropriate immunoassay procedures. in these areas developed extremely large thyroid glands, The following tests also are sometimes used: called endemic goiters. 1. The basal metabolic rate is usually increased to +30 to The following mechanism results in the development of +60 in severe hyperthyroidism. large endemic goiters: Lack of iodine prevents production 2. The concentration of TSH in the plasma is measured by of both thyroxine and triiodothyronine. As a result, no hor- immunoassay. In the usual type of thyrotoxicosis, an- mone is available to inhibit production of TSH by the an- terior pituitary secretion of TSH is so completely sup- terior pituitary, which causes the pituitary to secrete exces- 951 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction sively large quantities of TSH. The TSH then stimulates the thyroid cells to secrete large amounts of thyroglobulin col- loid into the follicles, and the gland grows larger and larger. However, because of lack of iodine, thyroxine and triiodo- thyronine production does not occur in the thyroglobulin molecule and therefore does not cause the normal suppres- sion of TSH production by the anterior pituitary. The fol- licles greatly enlarge, and the thyroid gland may increase to 10 to 20 times its normal size. Idiopathic Nontoxic Colloid Goiter. Enlarged thyroid glands similar to those of endemic colloid goiter can also occur in people who do not have iodine
