Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to 20 times its normal size. Idiopathic Nontoxic Colloid Goiter. Enlarged thyroid glands similar to those of endemic colloid goiter can also occur in people who do not have iodine deficiency. These goitrous glands may secrete normal quantities of thyroid hormones, but more frequently, the secretion of hormone is depressed, as in endemic colloid goiter. The exact cause of the enlarged thyroid gland in pa- tients with idiopathic colloid goiter is not known, but most of these patients show signs of mild thyroiditis; therefore, it has been suggested that the thyroiditis causes slight hy- pothyroidism, which then leads to increased TSH secretion and progressive growth of the noninflamed portions of the gland. This theory could explain why these glands are usu- ally nodular, with some portions of the gland growing while other portions are being destroyed by thyroiditis. In some persons with colloid goiter, the thyroid gland has an abnormality of the enzyme system required for for- mation of thyroid hormones. The following abnormalities are often encountered: Figure 77- 9 A patient with myxedema. (Courtesy Dr. Herbert Lang- 1. A deficient iodide-t rapping mechanism, in which iodine ford.) is not pumped adequately into the thyroid cells 2. A deficient peroxidase system, in which the iodides are not oxidized to the iodine state shows such a patient, demonstrating bagginess under the 3. Deficient coupling of iodinated tyrosines in the thy- eyes and swelling of the face. In this condition, for reasons roglobulin molecule so that the final thyroid hormones that are not fully explained, greatly increased quantities of cannot be formed hyaluronic acid and chondroitin sulfate bound with protein 4. Deficiency of the deiodinase enzyme, which prevents form excessive tissue gel in the interstitial spaces, which recovery of iodine from the iodinated tyrosines that causes the total quantity of interstitial fluid to increase. Be- are not coupled to form the thyroid hormones (this is cause of the gel nature of the excess fluid, it is mainly im- about two-thirds of the iodine), thus leading to iodine mobile and the edema is the nonpitting type. deficiency Atherosclerosis in Hypothyroidism. As pointed out Finally, some foods contain goitrogenic substances that earlier, lack of thyroid hormone increases the quantity of have a propylthiouracil- type of antithyroid activity, thus blood cholesterol because of altered fat and cholesterol also leading to TSH- stimulated enlargement of the thyroid metabolism and diminished liver excretion of cholesterol gland. Such
