Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of antithyroid activity, thus blood cholesterol because of altered fat and cholesterol also leading to TSH- stimulated enlargement of the thyroid metabolism and diminished liver excretion of cholesterol gland. Such goitrogenic substances are found especially in in the bile. The increase in blood cholesterol is often as- some varieties of turnips and cabbages. sociated with increased atherosclerosis. Therefore, many Physiological Characteristics of Hypothyroidism. hypothyroid patients, particularly those with myxedema, Whether hypothyroidism is due to thyroiditis, endemic col- develop atherosclerosis, which in turn results in peripheral loid goiter, idiopathic colloid goiter, destruction of the thy- vascular disease, deafness, and coronary artery disease with roid gland by irradiation, or surgical removal of the thyroid subsequent early death. gland, the physiological effects are the same. They include Diagnostic Tests for Hypothyroidism. The tests already fatigue and extreme somnolence, with persons sleeping up described for diagnosis of hyperthyroidism give opposite to 12 to 14 hours a day, extreme muscular sluggishness, results in hypothyroidism. The free thyroxine in the blood a slowed heart rate, decreased cardiac output, decreased is low. The basal metabolic rate in myxedema is reduced blood volume, sometimes increased body weight, constipa- by 30% to 50%. In addition, the secretion of TSH by the tion, mental sluggishness, failure of many trophic functions anterior pituitary when a test dose of TRH is administered in the body as evidenced by depressed growth of hair and is usually greatly increased (except in the rare cases of hy- scaliness of the skin, development of a froglike, husky voice, pothyroidism caused by depressed response of the pituitary and, in severe cases, development of an edematous appear- gland to TRH). ance throughout the body called myxedema. Treatment of Hypothyroidism. Figure 77- 4 shows the Myxedema. Myxedema develops in persons who have effect of thyroxine on basal metabolic rate, demonstrating almost total lack of thyroid hormone function. Figure 77- 9 that the hormone normally has a duration of action of more 952 Chapter 77 Thyroid Metabolic Hormones than 1 month. Consequently, a steady level of thyroid hor- Bibliography mone activity is easily maintained in the body via daily oral Bianco AC, Dumitrescu A, Gereben B, et al: Paradigms of dynamic ingestion of one or more tablets containing thyroxine. Fur- control of thyroid hormone signaling. Endocr Rev 40:1000, 2019. thermore, proper treatment of hypothyroidism results in Biondi B, Cappola AR, Cooper DS: Subclinical hypothyroidism: a re- such complete normality that
