Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


weeks after birth, mental growth remains perma- Mullur R, Liu YY, Brent GA: Thyroid hormone regulation of metabo- nently retarded. This state results from retardation of the lism. Physiol Rev 94:355, 2014. growth, branching, and myelination of the neuronal cells of Ortiga- Carvalho TM, Chiamolera MI, Pazos- Moura CC, Wondisford the central nervous system at this critical time in the nor- FE: Hypothalamus- pituitary- thyroid axis. Compr Physiol 6:1387, 2016. mal development of the mental powers. Razvi S, Jabbar A, Pingitore A, et al: Thyroid hormones and cardio- Skeletal growth in a child with cretinism is characteristi- vascular function and diseases. J Am Coll Cardiol 71:1781, 2018. cally more inhibited than is soft tissue growth. As a result Singh I, Hershman JM: Pathogenesis of hyperthyroidism. Compr Phys- of this disproportionate rate of growth, the soft tissues are iol 7:67, 2016. likely to enlarge excessively, giving the child with cretinism an obese, stocky, and short appearance. Occasionally the tongue becomes so large in relation to the skeletal growth that it obstructs swallowing and breathing, inducing a char- acteristic guttural breathing that sometimes chokes the child. 953 UNIT XIV CHAPTER 7 8 Adrenocortical Hormones The two adrenal glands, each of which weighs about 4 CORTICOSTEROIDS: grams, lie at the superior poles of the two kidneys. As MINERALOCORTICOIDS, shown in Figure 78- 1, each gland is composed of two GLUCOCORTICOIDS, AND ANDROGENS major parts, the adrenal medulla and the adrenal cor- tex. The adrenal medulla, the central 20% of the gland, is Two major types of adrenocortical hormones, the min- functionally related to the sympathetic nervous system; it eralocorticoids and the glucocorticoids, are secreted by secretes the hormones epinephrine and norepinephrine in the adrenal cortex. In addition to these hormones, small response to sympathetic stimulation. In turn, these hor- amounts of sex hormones are secreted, especially andro- mones cause almost the same effects as direct stimulation genic hormones, which exhibit about the same effects in of the sympathetic nerves in all parts of the body. These the body as the male sex hormone testosterone. They are hormones and their effects are discussed in detail in normally of only slight importance, although in certain Chapter 61 in relation to the sympathetic nervous system. abnormalities of the adrenal cortices, extreme quantities The adrenal cortex secretes an entirely different group can be secreted (which is discussed later in the chapter) of hormones, called corticosteroids. These hormones
