Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the adrenal cortices, extreme quantities The adrenal cortex secretes an entirely different group can be secreted (which is discussed later in the chapter) of hormones, called corticosteroids. These hormones are and can result in masculinizing effects. all synthesized from the steroid cholesterol, and they all The mineralocorticoids gained this name because they have similar chemical formulas. However, slight differ- especially affect the electrolytes (the “minerals”) of the ences in their molecular structures give them several dif- extracellular fluids, especially sodium and potassium. ferent but very important functions. The glucocorticoids gained their name because they exhibit important effects that increase blood glucose concentration. They have additional effects on protein and fat metabolism that are equally as important to body function as their effects on carbohydrate metabolism. More than 30 steroids have been isolated from the Zona glomerulosa adrenal cortex, but two are of exceptional importance to aldosterone the normal endocrine function of the human body: aldo- sterone, which is the principal mineralocorticoid, and cor- Zona fasciculata Cortisol tisol, which is the principal glucocorticoid. and androgens Zona reticularis SYNTHESIS AND SECRETION OF ADRENOCORTICAL HORMONES Medulla (catecholamines) Cortex THE ADRENAL CORTEX HAS THREE DIS- TINCT LAYERS Figure 78- 1 shows that the adrenal cortex is composed of three relatively distinct layers: 1. The zona glomerulosa, a thin layer of cells that lies just underneath the capsule, constitutes about 15% Magnified section of the adrenal cortex. These cells are the only ones in the adrenal gland capable of secreting significant amounts of aldosterone because they contain the Figure 78- 1. Secretion of adrenocortical hormones by the different zones of the adrenal cortex and secretion of catecholamines by the enzyme aldosterone synthase, which is necessary for adrenal medulla. synthesis of aldosterone. The secretion of these cells 955 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction is controlled mainly by the extracellular fluid con- Synthetic Pathways for Adrenal Steroids. Figure 78- 2 centrations of angiotensin II and potassium, both of gives the principal steps in the formation of the important which stimulate aldosterone secretion. steroid products of the adrenal cortex: aldosterone, cortisol, 2. The zona fasciculata, the middle and widest zone, and the androgens. Essentially all these steps occur in two of the organelles of the cell, the mitochondria and the endo- constitutes about 75% of the adrenal cortex and se- plasmic reticulum, with some steps occurring in one of these cretes the glucocorticoids cortisol and
