Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cell, the mitochondria and the endo- constitutes about 75% of the adrenal cortex and se- plasmic reticulum, with some steps occurring in one of these cretes the glucocorticoids cortisol and corticoster- organelles and some in the other. Each step is catalyzed by a one, as well as small amounts of adrenal androgens specific enzyme system. A change in even a single enzyme in and estrogens. The secretion of these cells is con- the schema can cause vastly different types and relative pro- trolled in large part by the hypothalamic- pituitary portions of hormones to be formed. For example, very large axis via adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). quantities of masculinizing sex hormones or other steroid 3. The zona reticularis, the inner zone of the cortex, compounds not normally present in the blood can occur with secretes the adrenal androgens dehydroepiandroster- altered activity of only one of the enzymes in this pathway. one and androstenedione, as well as small amounts The chemical formulas of aldosterone and cortisol, of estrogens and some glucocorticoids. ACTH also which are the major mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid regulates secretion of these cells, although other fac- hormones, respectively, are shown in Figure 78- 2. Cortisol has a keto oxygen on carbon number 3 and is hydroxylated tors such as cortical androgen- stimulating hormone, at carbon numbers 11 and 21. The mineralocorticoid aldos- released from the pituitary, may also be involved. The terone has an oxygen atom bound at the number 18 carbon. mechanisms for controlling adrenal androgen pro- In addition to aldosterone and cortisol, other steroids duction, however, are not nearly as well understood having glucocorticoid or mineralocorticoid activities, or as those for glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids. both, are normally secreted in small amounts by the adrenal Aldosterone and cortisol secretion are regulated by cortex. Furthermore, several additional potent steroid hor- independent mechanisms. Factors such as angiotensin mones not normally formed in the adrenal glands have been II that specifically increase the output of aldosterone and synthesized and are used in various forms of therapy. Some cause hypertrophy of the zona glomerulosa have no effect of the more important of the corticosteroid hormones, in- on the other two zones. Similarly, factors such as ACTH cluding the synthetic ones, are the following, as summarized that increase secretion of cortisol and adrenal androgens in Table 78- 1. and cause hypertrophy of the zona fasciculata and zona Mineralocorticoids reticularis have little effect on the
