Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


as summarized that increase secretion of cortisol and adrenal androgens in Table 78- 1. and cause hypertrophy of the zona fasciculata and zona Mineralocorticoids reticularis have little effect on the zona glomerulosa. • Aldosterone (very potent; accounts for ≈90% of all min- eralocorticoid activity) • Deoxycorticosterone (1/30 as potent as aldosterone, but Adrenocortical Hormones Are Steroids Derived From very small quantities are secreted) Cholesterol. All human steroid hormones, including those • Corticosterone (slight mineralocorticoid activity) produced by the adrenal cortex, are synthesized from cho- • 9α- Fluorocortisol (synthetic; slightly more potent than lesterol. Although the cells of the adrenal cortex can synthe- aldosterone) size de novo small amounts of cholesterol from acetate, ap- • Cortisol (slight mineralocorticoid activity, but a large proximately 80% of the cholesterol used for steroid synthesis quantity is secreted) is provided by low-d ensity lipoproteins (LDLs) in the circu- • Cortisone (slight mineralocorticoid activity) lating plasma. The LDLs, which have high concentrations of Glucocorticoids cholesterol, diffuse from the plasma into the interstitial fluid and attach to specific receptors contained in structures called • Cortisol (very potent; accounts for ≈95% of all glucocor- coated pits on the adrenocortical cell membranes. The coated ticoid activity) pits are then internalized by endocytosis, forming vesicles that • Corticosterone (provides ≈4% of total glucocorticoid ac- eventually fuse with cell lysosomes and release cholesterol tivity, but is much less potent than cortisol) that can be used to synthesize adrenal steroid hormones. • Cortisone (almost as potent as cortisol) Transport of cholesterol into the adrenal cells is regu- • Prednisone (synthetic; four times as potent as cortisol) lated by feedback mechanisms that can markedly alter the • Methylprednisone (synthetic; five times as potent as cor- amount available for steroid synthesis. For example, ACTH, tisol) which stimulates adrenal steroid synthesis, increases the • Dexamethasone (synthetic; 30 times as potent as number of adrenocortical cell receptors for LDL, as well as cortisol) the activity of enzymes that liberate cholesterol from LDL. It is clear from this list that some of these hormones Once the cholesterol enters the cell, it is delivered to the and synthetic steroids have both glucocorticoid and miner- mitochondria, where it is cleaved by the enzyme cholesterol alocorticoid activities. It is especially significant that corti- desmolase to form pregnenolone; this is the rate-l imiting step sol normally has some mineralocorticoid activity, because in the eventual formation of adrenal steroids (Figure 78- 2).
