Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of adrenal steroids to the plasma proteins may proteins slows the elimination of cortisol from the plasma; serve as a reservoir to lessen rapid fluctuations in free hor- therefore, cortisol has a relatively long half- life of 60 to 90 mone concentrations, as would occur, for example, with minutes. Only about 60% of circulating aldosterone com- cortisol during brief periods of stress and episodic secre- bines with the plasma proteins, and about 40% is in the free tion of ACTH. This reservoir function may also help ensure 957 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Table 78- 1 Adrenal Steroid Hormones in Adults; Synthetic Steroids and Their Relative Glucocorticoid and Mineralocorticoid Activities Average Plasma Concentration Average Amount Glucocorticoid Mineralocorticoid Steroids (free and bound, μg/100 ml) Secreted (mg/24 hr) Activity Activity Adrenal steroids Cortisol 12 15 1.0 1.0 Corticosterone 0.4 3 0.3 15.0 Aldosterone 0.006 0.15 0.3 3000 Deoxycorticosterone 0.006 0.2 0.2 100 Dehydroepiandrosterone 175 20 — — Synthetic steroids Cortisone — — 0.7 0.5 Prednisolone — — 4 0.8 Methylprednisone — — 5 — Dexamethasone — — 30 — 9α- Fluorocortisol — — 10 125 Glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid activities of the steroids are relative to cortisol, with cortisol being 1.0. a relatively uniform distribution of the adrenal hormones extracellular fluid volume and blood volume become to the tissues. greatly reduced. Diminished cardiac output soon devel- Adrenocortical Hormones Are Metabolized in the Liv- ops, which progresses to a shock-l ike state, followed by er. The adrenal steroids are degraded mainly in the liver death. This entire sequence can be prevented by admin- and are conjugated especially to glucuronic acid and, to a istration of aldosterone or some other mineralocorticoid. lesser extent, to sulfates. These substances are inactive and Therefore, the mineralocorticoids are said to be the acute do not have mineralocorticoid or glucocorticoid activity. “lifesaving” portion of the adrenocortical hormones. The About 25% of these conjugates are excreted in the bile and glucocorticoids are equally necessary, however, because then in the feces. The remaining conjugates formed by the they allow the person to resist the destructive effects of liver enter the circulation but are not bound to plasma pro- teins, are highly soluble in the plasma, and are therefore life’s intermittent physical and mental “stresses,” as dis- filtered readily by the kidneys and excreted in the urine. cussed later in the chapter. Diseases of the liver markedly depress the rate of
