Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


physical and mental “stresses,” as dis- filtered readily by the kidneys and excreted in the urine. cussed later in the chapter. Diseases of the liver markedly depress the rate of inactiva- tion of adrenocortical hormones, and kidney diseases re- Aldosterone Is the Major Mineralocorticoid Secreted duce the excretion of the inactive conjugates. by the Adrenals. In humans, aldosterone exerts nearly The normal concentration of aldosterone in blood is 90% of the mineralocorticoid activity of the adrenocorti- about 6 nanograms (6 billionths of a gram) per 100 millilit- cal secretions, but cortisol, the major glucocorticoid se- ers, and the average secretory rate is approximately 150 μg/ creted by the adrenal cortex, also provides a significant day (0.15 mg/day). The blood concentration of aldosterone, amount of mineralocorticoid activity. The mineralocorti- however, depends greatly on several factors, including di- coid activity of aldosterone is about 3000 times greater etary intake of sodium and potassium. than that of cortisol, but the plasma concentration of cor- The concentration of cortisol in the blood averages 12 μg/100 ml, and the secretory rate averages 15 to 20 mg/day. tisol is nearly 2000 times that of aldosterone. However, blood concentration and secretion rate of corti- Cortisol can also bind to mineralocorticoid recep- sol fluctuate throughout the day, rising in the early morning tors with high affinity. However, the renal epithelial cells and declining in the evening, as discussed later. express the enzyme 11β- hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (11β- HSD2), which has actions that prevent cor- FUNCTIONS OF MINERALOCORTICOIDS— tisol from activating mineralocorticoid receptors. One ALDOSTERONE action of 11β- HSD2 is to convert cortisol to cortisone, which does not avidly bind mineralocorticoid receptors. Mineralocorticoid Deficiency Causes Severe Renal There is also evidence that 11β- HSD2 may have effects Sodium Chloride Wasting and Hyperkalemia. Total on the intracellular redox (reduction and oxidation) state loss of adrenocortical secretion may cause death within 3 that prevent cortisol from activating the mineralocor- to 14 days unless the person receives extensive salt thera- ticoid receptors. In patients with genetic deficiency of py or injection of mineralocorticoids. 11β- HSD2 activity, cortisol may have substantial min- Without mineralocorticoids, potassium ion concen- eralocorticoid effects. This condition is called appar- tration of the extracellular fluid rises markedly, sodium ent mineralocorticoid excess syndrome (AME) because and chloride are rapidly lost from the body, and the total the patient has essentially the same pathophysiological 958 Chapter 78 Adrenocortical Hormones changes
