Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ent mineralocorticoid excess syndrome (AME) because and chloride are rapidly lost from the body, and the total the patient has essentially the same pathophysiological 958 Chapter 78 Adrenocortical Hormones changes as a patient with excess aldosterone secretion, Aldosterone 120 except that plasma aldosterone levels are very low in the patient with AME. Ingestion of large amounts of licorice, which contains glycyrrhetinic acid, may also cause AME 100 because of its ability to block 11β- HSD2 enzyme activity. RENAL AND CIRCULATORY EFFECTS OF 80 ALDOSTERONE 120 Aldosterone Increases Renal Tubular Reabsorption of 110 Sodium and Secretion of Potassium. As discussed in Chapter 28, aldosterone increases reabsorption of sodium 100 and simultaneously increases secretion of potassium by the renal tubular epithelial cells, especially in the principal 90 cells of the collecting tubules and, to a lesser extent, in the 400 distal tubules and collecting ducts. Therefore, aldosterone causes sodium to be conserved in the extracellular fluid 300 while increasing potassium excretion in the urine. A high concentration of aldosterone in the plasma can 200 transiently decrease the sodium loss into the urine to as 100 little as a few milliequivalents per day. At the same time, potassium loss into the urine transiently increases sever- –4 –2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 alfold. Therefore, the net effect of excess aldosterone in Time (days) the plasma is to increase the total quantity of sodium in Figure 78- 3. Effect of aldosterone infusion on arterial pressure, ex- the extracellular fluid while decreasing the potassium. tracellular fluid volume, and sodium excretion in dogs. Although al- Conversely, total lack of aldosterone secretion can dosterone was infused at a rate that raised plasma concentrations to cause transient loss of 10 to 20 grams of sodium in the about 20 times normal, note the “escape” from sodium retention on the second day of infusion as arterial pressure increased and urinary urine a day, an amount equal to one tenth to one fifth of sodium excretion returned to normal. (Data from Hall JE, Granger all the sodium in the body. At the same time, potassium is JP, Smith MJ Jr, et al: Role of hemodynamics and arterial pressure in conserved tenaciously in the extracellular fluid. aldosterone “escape.” Hypertension 6[suppl I]:I183-I 192, 1984.) Excess Aldosterone Increases Extracellular Fluid fluid volume increases 5% to 15% above normal, arterial Volume and Arterial Pressure But Has Only a Small pressure also
