Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Hypertension 6[suppl I]:I183-I 192, 1984.) Excess Aldosterone Increases Extracellular Fluid fluid volume increases 5% to 15% above normal, arterial Volume and Arterial Pressure But Has Only a Small pressure also increases 15 to 25 mm Hg, and this elevated Effect on Plasma Sodium Concentration; Aldosterone blood pressure returns the renal output of sodium and Deficiency Causes Hyponatremia. Although aldoster- water to normal despite excess aldosterone (Figure 78- 3). one has a potent effect to decrease the rate of sodium ex- This return to normal sodium and water excretion by cretion by the kidneys, the concentration of sodium in the the kidneys as a result of pressure natriuresis and diuresis extracellular fluid often rises only a few milliequivalents. is called aldosterone escape. Thereafter, the rate of gain The reason for this is that when sodium is reabsorbed by of sodium and water by the body is zero, and balance is the tubules, simultaneous osmotic absorption of almost maintained between sodium and water intake and out- equivalent amounts of water occurs. Also, small increas- put by the kidneys, despite continued excess aldosterone. es in extracellular fluid sodium concentration stimulate In the meantime, however, hypertension has developed, thirst and increased water intake, if water is available, which lasts as long as the person remains exposed to high and increase secretion of antidiuretic hormone, which levels of aldosterone. enhances water reabsorption by the distal and collecting In contrast, severe aldosterone deficiency may cause tubules of the kidneys. Therefore, the extracellular fluid substantial reductions in plasma sodium concentration volume increases almost as much as the retained sodium, (hyponatremia) due to reduced renal sodium reabsorp- but without much change in sodium concentration. tion and increased sodium excretion. The renal sodium Even though aldosterone is one of the body’s most pow- wasting causes reductions in extracellular fluid volume, erful sodium- retaining hormones, only transient sodium arterial pressure, and cardiac output, which stimulate retention occurs when excess amounts are secreted. An secretion of antidiuretic hormone (ADH). Increased lev- aldosterone- mediated increase in extracellular fluid vol- els of ADH attenuate renal water excretion and contrib- ume lasting more than 1 to 2 days also leads to an increase ute to hyponatremia, along with increases in thirst and in arterial pressure, as explained in Chapter 19. The rise in water intake that are also stimulated by hypovolemia and arterial pressure then increases kidney excretion of both hypotension. sodium and water,
