Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


pressure, as explained in Chapter 19. The rise in water intake that are also stimulated by hypovolemia and arterial pressure then increases kidney excretion of both hypotension. sodium and water, called pressure natriuresis and pres- When aldosterone secretion becomes zero, large sure diuresis, respectively. Thus, after the extracellular amounts of sodium are lost in the urine, not only 959 lairetra naeM diulf ralullecartxE muidos yranirU )gH mm( erusserp )lamroN %( emulov )yad/qEm( noitercxe UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction diminishing the amount of sodium chloride in the extra- RReennaall PPrriinncciippaall TTuubbuullaarr cellular fluid but also decreasing the extracellular fluid iinntteerrssttiittiiaall cceellllss lluummeenn fflluuiidd volume. The result is severe extracellular fluid dehydra- tion and low blood volume, leading to circulatory shock. SSppiirroonnoollaaccttoonnee Without therapy, this usually causes death within a few days after the adrenal glands suddenly stop secreting aldosterone. AAllddoosstteerroonnee MMRR Excess Aldosterone Causes Hypokalemia and Muscle Weakness; Aldosterone Deficiency Causes Hyper- Nucleus kalemia and Cardiac Toxicity. Excess aldosterone not only causes loss of potassium ions from the extracellular mmRRNNAA fluid into the urine but also stimulates transport of po- PPrrootteeiinnss tassium from the extracellular fluid into most cells of the body. Therefore, excessive secretion of aldosterone, as EENNaaCC occurs with some types of adrenal tumors, may cause a KK++ ATP AAmmiilloorriiddee serious decrease in the plasma potassium concentration NNaa++ (hypokalemia), sometimes from the normal value of 4.5 NNaa++ mEq/L to as low as 2 mEq/L. When plasma potassium ion concentration falls below about one-h alf normal, se- MMiittoocchhoonnddrriiaall RROOMMKK eennzzyymmeess KK++ vere muscle weakness often develops. This muscle weak- ness is caused by alteration of the electrical excitability of the nerve and muscle fiber membranes (see Chapter 5), Figure 78- 4. Aldosterone- responsive epithelial cell signaling path- which prevents transmission of normal action potentials. ways. Activation of the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) by aldoster- Conversely, when aldosterone is deficient, the extracel- one can be antagonized with spironolactone. Amiloride is a drug that can be used to block epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) proteins. ATP, lular fluid potassium ion concentration can rise far above ROMK, Renal outer medullary potassium channel. normal. When it rises to 60% to 100% above normal, seri- ous cardiac toxicity, including weakness of heart contrac- tion and development of arrhythmia, becomes evident, the effect on the salivary glands is necessary to conserve and progressively higher concentrations of potassium salt when excessive quantities of saliva are lost. lead
