Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


development of arrhythmia, becomes evident, the effect on the salivary glands is necessary to conserve and progressively higher concentrations of potassium salt when excessive quantities of saliva are lost. lead inevitably to heart failure. Aldosterone also greatly enhances sodium absorption by the intestines, especially in the colon, which prevents Excess Aldosterone Increases Tubular Hydrogen Ion loss of sodium in the stools. Conversely, in the absence Secretion and Causes Alkalosis. Aldosterone not only of aldosterone, sodium absorption can be poor, leading causes potassium to be secreted into the tubules in ex- to failure to absorb chloride and other anions and water change for sodium reabsorption in the principal cells of as well. The unabsorbed sodium chloride and water then the renal collecting tubules but also causes secretion of lead to diarrhea, with further loss of salt from the body. hydrogen ions in exchange for potassium in the interca- CELLULAR MECHANISM OF lated cells of the cortical collecting tubules, as discussed ALDOSTERONE ACTION in Chapters 28 and 31. This decreases the hydrogen ion concentration in the extracellular fluid, causing metabolic Although for many years we have known the overall alkalosis. effects of mineralocorticoids on the body, the molecular mechanisms of the actions of aldosterone on the tubu- ALDOSTERONE STIMULATES SODIUM lar cells to increase transport of sodium are still not fully AND POTASSIUM TRANSPORT IN SWEAT understood. However, the cellular sequence of events that GLANDS, SALIVARY GLANDS, AND leads to increased sodium reabsorption seems to unfold INTESTINAL EPITHELIAL CELLS as follows. Aldosterone has almost the same effects on sweat glands First, because of its lipid solubility in the cellular mem- and salivary glands as it has on the renal tubules. Both branes, aldosterone diffuses readily to the interior of the these glands form a primary secretion that contains large tubular epithelial cells. quantities of sodium chloride, but much of the sodium Second, in the cytoplasm of the tubular cells, aldoste- chloride, upon passing through the excretory ducts, is rone combines with a highly specific cytoplasmic miner- reabsorbed, whereas potassium and bicarbonate ions are alocorticoid receptor (MR) protein (Figure 78- 4), which secreted. Aldosterone greatly increases the reabsorption has a stereomolecular configuration that allows only of sodium chloride and the secretion of potassium by the aldosterone or similar compounds to combine with it. ducts. The effect on the sweat glands is important to con- Although renal tubular epithelial cell MR receptors also serve
