Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


by the aldosterone or similar compounds to combine with it. ducts. The effect on the sweat glands is important to con- Although renal tubular epithelial cell MR receptors also serve body salt in hot environments (see Chapter 74), and have a high affinity for cortisol, the enzyme 11β- HSD2 960 Chapter 78 Adrenocortical Hormones normally converts most of the cortisol to cortisone, that is far too short for gene transcription and synthesis which does not readily bind to MR receptors, as discussed of new proteins. In other cell types, aldosterone has been previously. shown to rapidly stimulate the phosphatidylinositol sec- Third, the aldosterone- receptor complex or a product ond messenger system. However, the precise structure of this complex diffuses into the nucleus, where it may of receptors responsible for the rapid effects of aldoste- undergo further alterations, finally inducing one or more rone has not been determined, nor is the physiological specific portions of the DNA to form one or more types of significance of these nongenomic actions of steroids well messenger RNA (mRNA) related to the process of sodium understood. and potassium transport. REGULATION OF ALDOSTERONE Fourth, the mRNA diffuses back into the cytoplasm SECRETION where, operating in conjunction with the ribosomes, it causes protein formation. The proteins formed are a Regulation of aldosterone secretion is so deeply inter- mixture of (1) one or more enzymes and (2) membrane twined with regulation of extracellular fluid electrolyte transport proteins that, all acting together, are required concentrations, extracellular fluid volume, blood volume, for sodium, potassium, and hydrogen transport through arterial pressure, and many special aspects of renal func- the cell membrane (see Figure 78- 4). One of the enzymes tion that it is difficult to discuss control of aldosterone especially increased is sodium- potassium adenosine tri- secretion independently of all these other factors. This phosphatase (Na+- K+ ATPase), which serves as the princi- subject is presented in more detail in Chapters 28 and 30, pal part of the pump for sodium and potassium exchange to which the reader is referred. However, it is important at the basolateral membranes of the renal tubular cells. to list here some of the more important points of aldoste- Additional proteins, perhaps equally important, are epi- rone secretion control. thelial sodium channels and potassium channels inserted Regulation of aldosterone secretion by the zona glo- into the luminal membrane of the same tubular cells; merulosa cells is
