Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


rone secretion control. thelial sodium channels and potassium channels inserted Regulation of aldosterone secretion by the zona glo- into the luminal membrane of the same tubular cells; merulosa cells is almost entirely independent of regula- these channels allow rapid diffusion of sodium ions from tion of cortisol and androgens by the zona fasciculata and the tubular lumen into the cell and diffusion of potassium zona reticularis. from the cell interior to the tubular lumen. (See Chapters The following factors are known to play roles in regula- 28 and 30 for further discussion of the effects of aldoste- tion of aldosterone: rone on sodium, potassium, and hydrogen transport by 1. Increased potassium ion concentration in the extra- renal tubular epithelial cells.) cellular fluid greatly increases aldosterone secretion. Thus, aldosterone does not have a major immediate 2. Increased angiotensin II concentration in the extracel- effect on sodium transport; rather, this effect must await lular fluid also greatly increases aldosterone secretion. the sequence of events that leads to the formation of 3. Increased sodium ion concentration in the extracel- the specific intracellular substances required for sodium lular fluid slightly decreases aldosterone secretion. transport. About 30 minutes is required before new RNA 4. Increased atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), a hor- appears in the cells, and about 45 minutes is required mone secreted by the heart when specific cells of before the rates of sodium and potassium transport begin the cardiac atria are stretched (see Chapter 28), de- to increase; these effects reach a maximum only after sev- creases aldosterone secretion. eral hours. 5. ACTH from the anterior pituitary gland is neces- sary for aldosterone secretion but has little effect in POSSIBLE NONGENOMIC ACTIONS OF controlling the rate of secretion in most physiologi- ALDOSTERONE AND OTHER STEROID cal conditions. HORMONES Of these factors, potassium ion concentration and Some studies suggest that many steroids, including aldo- the angiotensin II are by far the most potent in regulat- sterone, elicit not only slowly developing genomic effects ing aldosterone secretion. A small percentage increase in that have a latency of 45 to 60 minutes and require gene potassium concentration can cause a severalfold increase transcription and synthesis of new proteins but also more in aldosterone secretion. Likewise, increased angiotensin rapid nongenomic effects that take place in a few seconds II,, usually in response to diminished blood flow to the or minutes. kidneys or to sodium loss, can increase
