Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


angiotensin rapid nongenomic effects that take place in a few seconds II,, usually in response to diminished blood flow to the or minutes. kidneys or to sodium loss, can increase aldosterone secre- These nongenomic actions are believed to be medi- tion severalfold. In turn, the aldosterone acts on the kid- ated by binding of steroids to cell membrane receptors neys (1) to help them excrete the excess potassium ions that are coupled to second messenger systems, similar to and (2) to increase the blood volume and arterial pres- those used for peptide hormone signal transduction. For sure, thus returning the renin-a ngiotensin system toward example, aldosterone has been shown to increase forma- its normal level of activity. These feedback control mecha- tion of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) in vas- nisms are essential for maintaining life, and the reader is cular smooth muscle cells and in epithelial cells of the referred again to Chapters 28 and 30 for a more complete renal collecting tubules in less than 2 minutes, a period description of their functions. 961 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction 50 play a “permissive” role in regulation of aldosterone secretion. 40 FUNCTIONS OF GLUCOCORTICOIDS Even though mineralocorticoids can save the life of an 30 acutely adrenalectomized animal, the animal still is far from normal. Instead, the animal’s metabolic sys- 20 tems for utilization of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats remain considerably deranged. Furthermore, the ani- 3.0 mal cannot resist different types of physical or even mental stress, and minor illnesses such as respiratory tract infections can lead to death. Therefore, the glu- 2.0 cocorticoids have functions just as important to the long- continued life of the animal as those of the min- 1.0 eralocorticoids. These functions are explained in the following sections. At least 95% of the glucocorticoid activity of the adre- 0.0 Control ACE ACE inhibitor nocortical secretions results from the secretion of corti- inhibitor + sol, known also as hydrocortisone. In addition, a small but Ang II infusion significant amount of glucocorticoid activity is provided Figure 78- 5. Effects of treating sodium- depleted dogs with an by corticosterone. angiotensin- converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor for 7 days to block formation of angiotensin II (Ang II) and of infusing exogenous Ang II to restore plasma Ang II levels after ACE inhibition. Note that block- EFFECTS OF CORTISOL ON ing Ang II formation reduced plasma aldosterone concentration with CARBOHYDRATE METABOLISM
