Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


exogenous Ang II to restore plasma Ang II levels after ACE inhibition. Note that block- EFFECTS OF CORTISOL ON ing Ang II formation reduced plasma aldosterone concentration with CARBOHYDRATE METABOLISM little effect on cortisol, demonstrating the important role of Ang II in stimulating aldosterone secretion during sodium depletion. (Data Stimulation of Gluconeogenesis. The best- known from Hall JE, Guyton AC, Smith MJ Jr, et al: Chronic blockade of metabolic effect of cortisol and other glucocorticoids on angiotensin II formation during sodium deprivation. Am J Physiol metabolism is the ability to stimulate gluconeogenesis 237:F424, 1979.) (i.e., the formation of carbohydrate from proteins and some other substances) by the liver, often increasing the Figure 78-5 shows the effects on plasma aldosterone rate of gluconeogenesis as much as 6- to 10- fold. This in- concentration caused by blocking formation of angioten- creased rate of gluconeogenesis results mainly from direct sin II with an angiotensin- converting enzyme inhibitor effects of cortisol on the liver, as well as by antagonizing after several weeks of a low- sodium diet that increases the effects of insulin. plasma aldosterone concentration. Note that blockade 1. Cortisol increases the enzymes required to convert ami- of angiotensin II formation markedly decreased plasma no acids into glucose in liver cells. Glucocorticoids ac- aldosterone concentration without significantly chang- tivate DNA transcription in the liver cell nuclei in the ing cortisol concentration, which indicates the important same way that aldosterone functions in renal tubular role of angiotensin II in stimulating aldosterone secretion cells, with formation of mRNAs that in turn lead to the when sodium intake and extracellular fluid volume are array of enzymes required for gluconeogenesis. reduced. 2. Cortisol causes mobilization of amino acids from ex- By contrast, the effects of ANP, sodium ion concen- trahepatic tissues, mainly from muscle. As a result, tration per se, and ACTH in controlling aldosterone more amino acids become available in the plasma to secretion are usually minor. Nevertheless, a 10% to enter into the gluconeogenesis process of the liver 20% decrease in extracellular fluid sodium ion con- and thereby to promote formation of glucose. centration, which occurs on rare occasions, can per- 3. C ortisol antagonizes insulin’s effects to inhibit gluco- haps increase aldosterone secretion by about 50%. An neogenesis in the liver. As discussed in Chapter 79, in- increase in ANP concentration, secondary to plasma sulin stimulates glycogen synthesis in the liver and in- volume
