Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


about 50%. An neogenesis in the liver. As discussed in Chapter 79, in- increase in ANP concentration, secondary to plasma sulin stimulates glycogen synthesis in the liver and in- volume expansion and stretch of the cardiac atria, hibits enzymes involved in glucose production by the may induce natriuresis, in part by inhibiting aldoste- liver. The net effect of cortisol is to increase glucose rone secretion. In the case of ACTH, if even a small production by the liver. amount is secreted by the anterior pituitary gland, The marked increase in glycogen storage in liver cells it is usually enough to permit the adrenal glands to that accompanies increased gluconeogenesis potentiates secrete whatever amount of aldosterone is required, the effects of other glycolytic hormones, such as epineph- but total absence of ACTH can significantly reduce rine and glucagon, to mobilize glucose in times of need, aldosterone secretion. Therefore, ACTH appears to such as between meals. 962 enoretsodla amsalP lositroc amsalP )lm 001/gn( )lm 001/gµ( Chapter 78 Adrenocortical Hormones Decreased Glucose Utilization by Cells. Cortisol also ably not the major cause because cortisol also depresses causes a moderate decrease in glucose utilization by most formation of RNA and subsequent protein synthesis in cells in the body. Although the precise cause of this de- many extrahepatic tissues, especially in muscle and lym- crease is unclear, one important effect of cortisol is to de- phoid tissue. crease translocation of the glucose transporter GLUT 4 In the presence of great excesses of cortisol, the mus- to the cell membrane, especially in skeletal muscle cells, cles can become so weak that the person cannot rise from leading to insulin resistance. Glucocorticoids may also de- the squatting position. In addition, the immunity func- press the expression and phosphorylation of other signal- tions of the lymphoid tissue can be decreased to a small ing cascades that influence glucose utilization directly or fraction of normal. indirectly by affecting protein and lipid metabolism. For example, glucocorticoids reduce the expression of insulin Cortisol Increases Liver and Plasma Proteins. Coinci- receptor substrate–1 and phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase, dentally with the effect of glucocorticoids to reduce pro- both of which are involved in mediating the actions of teins elsewhere in the body, the liver proteins are increased. insulin, as well as oxidation of nicotinamide-a denine di- Furthermore, the plasma proteins (which are produced nucleotide (NADH) to form NAD+. Because NADH must by the liver
