Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


proteins are increased. insulin, as well as oxidation of nicotinamide-a denine di- Furthermore, the plasma proteins (which are produced nucleotide (NADH) to form NAD+. Because NADH must by the liver and then released into the blood) are also in- be oxidized to allow glycolysis, this effect could also con- creased. These increases are exceptions to the protein tribute to diminished utilization of glucose by the cells. depletion that occurs elsewhere in the body. It is believed that this difference results from a possible effect of cortisol Elevated Blood Glucose Concentration and “Adre- to enhance amino acid transport into liver cells—but not nal Diabetes.” Both the increased gluconeogenesis and into most other cells—and to enhance the liver enzymes moderate reduction in glucose utilization by the cells required for protein synthesis. cause the blood glucose concentrations to rise. The rise in blood glucose in turn stimulates insulin secretion. The Increased Blood Amino Acids, Diminished Transport increased plasma levels of insulin, however, are not as ef- of Amino Acids Into Extrahepatic Cells, and Enhanced fective in maintaining plasma glucose as they are under Transport Into Hepatic Cells. Studies in isolated tissues normal conditions. For reasons that were discussed previ- have demonstrated that cortisol depresses amino acid ously, high levels of glucocorticoid reduce the sensitivity transport into muscle cells and perhaps into other extra- of many tissues, especially skeletal muscle and adipose tis- hepatic cells. sue, to the stimulatory effects of insulin on glucose uptake The decreased transport of amino acids into extrahe- and utilization. Besides potential direct effects of cortisol patic cells decreases their intracellular amino acid con- on expression of glucose transporters and enzymes in- centrations and consequently decreases the synthesis volved in glucose regulation, the high levels of fatty acids, of protein. Yet, cell catabolism of proteins continues to caused by the effect of glucocorticoids to mobilize lipids release amino acids that diffuse out of the cells to increase from fat depots, may impair the actions of insulin on the the plasma amino acid concentration. Therefore, corti- tissues. In this way, excess secretion of glucocorticoids sol mobilizes amino acids from nonhepatic tissues and in produce disturbances of carbohydrate metabolism simi- doing so diminishes tissue stores of protein. lar to those found in patients with excess levels of growth The increased plasma concentration of amino acids hormone. and enhanced amino acid transport into the hepatic The increase in blood glucose concentration is
