Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in patients with excess levels of growth The increased plasma concentration of amino acids hormone. and enhanced amino acid transport into the hepatic The increase in blood glucose concentration is occa- cells by cortisol could also account for enhanced utili- sionally great enough (≥50% normal) that the condition is zation of amino acids by the liver to cause such effects called adrenal diabetes. Administration of insulin lowers as (1) increased rate of deamination of amino acids by the blood glucose concentration only a moderate amount the liver, (2) increased protein synthesis in the liver, (3) in adrenal diabetes—not nearly as much as it does in pan- increased formation of plasma proteins by the liver, and creatic diabetes—because the tissues are resistant to the (4) increased conversion of amino acids to glucose—that effects of insulin. is, enhanced gluconeogenesis. Thus, it is possible that many of the effects of cortisol on the metabolic systems EFFECTS OF CORTISOL ON PROTEIN of the body result mainly from this ability of cortisol to METABOLISM mobilize amino acids from the peripheral tissues while at the same time increasing the liver enzymes required for Reduction in Cellular Protein. One of the principal ef- the hepatic effects. fects of cortisol on the metabolic systems of the body is reduction of protein stores in essentially all cells of the EFFECTS OF CORTISOL ON FAT body, except those of the liver. This reduction is caused by METABOLISM both decreased protein synthesis and increased catabo- lism of protein already in the cells. Both these effects may Mobilization of Fatty Acids. In much the same man- result partly from decreased amino acid transport into ner that cortisol promotes amino acid mobilization from extrahepatic tissues, as discussed later, but this is prob- muscle, it also promotes mobilization of fatty acids from 963 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction adipose tissue. This mobilization increases the concentra- 45 tion of free fatty acids in the plasma, which also increases 40 their utilization for energy. Cortisol also seems to have a 35 30 direct effect to enhance the oxidation of fatty acids in the 25 cells. 20 The mechanism by which cortisol promotes fatty acid 15 mobilization is not completely understood. However, part 10 5 of the effect probably results from diminished transport of 55 glucose into the fat cells. Recall that α- glycerophosphate, 50 which is derived from glucose, is required for both depo-
