Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the effect probably results from diminished transport of 55 glucose into the fat cells. Recall that α- glycerophosphate, 50 which is derived from glucose, is required for both depo- 45 40 sition and maintenance of triglycerides in these cells. In 35 its absence, the fat cells begin to release fatty acids. 30 The increased mobilization of fats by cortisol, com- 25 bined with increased oxidation of fatty acids in the cells, 20 15 helps shift the metabolic systems of the cells from utiliza- 10 tion of glucose for energy to utilization of fatty acids in 5 times of starvation or other stresses. This cortisol mecha- –0 nism, however, requires several hours to become fully 15 30 4560 90 2 3 456 8101215202530 Seconds Minutes developed—not nearly so rapid or so powerful an effect as a similar shift elicited by a decrease in insulin, as we Figure 78- 6. Rapid reaction of the adrenal cortex of a rat to stress caused by fracture of the tibia and fibula at time zero. (In the rat, discuss in Chapter 79. Nevertheless, the increased use of corticosterone is secreted in place of cortisol.) fatty acids for metabolic energy is an important factor for long- term conservation of body glucose and glycogen. Even though cortisol secretion often increases greatly Excess Cortisol Causes Obesity. Although cortisol can in stressful situations, we are not sure why this is of signif- cause a moderate degree of fatty acid mobilization from icant benefit to the animal. One possibility is that the glu- adipose tissue, a peculiar type of obesity develops in many cocorticoids cause rapid mobilization of amino acids and people with excess cortisol secretion, with excess deposi- fats from their cellular stores, making them immediately tion of fat in the chest and head regions of the body, giving available both for energy and for synthesis of other com- a buffalo- like torso and a rounded “moon face.” Although pounds, including glucose, needed by different tissues of the cause is unclear, it has been suggested that this obesity the body. Indeed, it has been shown in a few instances that results from excess stimulation of food intake, with fat be- damaged tissues that are momentarily depleted of pro- ing generated in some tissues of the body more rapidly teins can use the newly available amino acids to form new than it is mobilized and oxidized. proteins that are
