Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ing generated in some tissues of the body more rapidly teins can use the newly available amino acids to form new than it is mobilized and oxidized. proteins that are essential to the lives of the cells. Also, the amino acids are perhaps used to synthesize other essen- CORTISOL IS IMPORTANT IN RESISTING tial intracellular substances, such as purines, pyrimidines, STRESS AND INFLAMMATION and creatine phosphate, which are necessary for mainte- Almost any type of stress, whether physical or neu- nance of cellular life and reproduction of new cells. rogenic, causes an immediate and marked increase in All this is mainly supposition and is supported only by ACTH secretion by the anterior pituitary gland, fol- the fact that cortisol usually does not mobilize the basic lowed within minutes by greatly increased adrenocor- functional proteins of the cells, such as the muscle con- tical secretion of cortisol. This effect is demonstrated tractile proteins and the proteins of neurons, until almost dramatically by the experiment shown in Figure 78-6 , in all other proteins have been released. This preferential which corticosteroid formation and secretion increased effect of cortisol in mobilizing labile proteins could make sixfold in a rat within 4 to 20 minutes after fracture of amino acids available to needy cells to synthesize sub- two leg bones. stances essential to life. The following list details some of the different types of Anti- inflammatory Effects of High Levels stress that increase cortisol release: of Cortisol 1. Trauma 2. Infection When tissues are damaged by trauma, by infection with 3. Intense heat or cold bacteria, or in other ways, they almost always become 4. Injection of norepinephrine and other sympatho- “inflamed.” In some conditions, such as in rheumatoid mimetic drugs arthritis, the inflammation is more damaging than the 5. Surgery trauma or disease itself. Administration of large amounts 6. Injection of necrotizing substances beneath the skin of cortisol can usually block this inflammation or even 7. Restraining an animal so it cannot move reverse many of its effects once it has begun. Before 8. Debilitating diseases attempting to explain the way in which cortisol functions 964 enoretsocitroc lanerdA enoretsocitroc amsalP noitartnecnoc noitartnecnoc )g/gµ( )lm 001/gµ( Chapter 78 Adrenocortical Hormones to block inflammation, let us review the basic steps in the Thus, cortisol has an almost global effect in reducing inflammation process, which are discussed in more detail all aspects of the inflammatory process.
