Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


us review the basic steps in the Thus, cortisol has an almost global effect in reducing inflammation process, which are discussed in more detail all aspects of the inflammatory process. It is unclear how in Chapter 34. much of this reduction results from the simple effect of Five main stages of inflammation occur: (1) release cortisol in stabilizing lysosomal and cell membranes ver- from the damaged tissue cells of chemicals such as his- sus its effect in reducing the formation of prostaglandins tamine, bradykinin, proteolytic enzymes, prostaglandins, and leukotrienes from arachidonic acid in damaged cell and leukotrienes that activate the inflammation process; membranes and other effects of cortisol. (2) an increase in blood flow in the inflamed area caused by some of the released products from the tissues, an effect Cortisol Causes Resolution of Inflammation. Even called erythema; (3) leakage of large quantities of almost after inflammation has become well established, admin- pure plasma out of the capillaries into the damaged areas istration of cortisol can often reduce inflammation with- because of increased capillary permeability, followed by in hours to a few days. The immediate effect is to block clotting of the tissue fluid, thus causing a nonpitting type most of the factors that promote inflammation. In addi- of edema; (4) infiltration of the area by leukocytes; and (5) tion, however, the rate of healing is enhanced. This prob- after days or weeks, ingrowth of fibrous tissue that often ably results from the same, mainly undefined, factors helps in the healing process. that allow the body to resist many other types of physi- When large amounts of cortisol are secreted or injected cal stress when large quantities of cortisol are secreted. into a person, the glucocorticoid has two basic anti- Perhaps this results from (1) mobilization of amino acids inflammatory effects: (1) it can block the early stages of and use of these acids to repair the damaged tissues; (2) the inflammation process before noticeable inflammation increased glucogenesis that makes extra glucose available even begins, or (2) if inflammation has already begun, it in critical metabolic systems; (3) increased amounts of causes rapid resolution of the inflammation and increased fatty acids available for cellular energy; or (4) some effect rapidity of healing. These effects are explained further in of cortisol for inactivating or removing inflammatory the following sections. products. Regardless of the precise mechanisms by which the anti- Cortisol Prevents
