Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of healing. These effects are explained further in of cortisol for inactivating or removing inflammatory the following sections. products. Regardless of the precise mechanisms by which the anti- Cortisol Prevents the Development of Inflammation inflammatory effect occurs, this effect of cortisol plays a by Stabilizing Lysosomes and by Other Effects. Cor- major role in combating certain types of diseases, such as tisol has the following effects in preventing inflammation: rheumatoid arthritis, rheumatic fever, and acute glomerulo- 1. Cortisol stabilizes lysosomal membranes. This nephritis. All these diseases are characterized by severe local stabilization is one of its most important anti- inflammation, and the harmful effects on the body are caused inflammatory effects because it is much more mainly by the inflammation associated with the disease. difficult than normal for the membranes of the When cortisol or other glucocorticoids are adminis- intracellular lysosomes to rupture. Therefore, the tered to patients with these diseases, almost invariably proteolytic enzymes that are stored in lysosomes the inflammation begins to subside within 24 hours. Even and are released by damaged cells to cause inflam- though the cortisol does not correct the basic disease mation are released in greatly decreased quantities. condition, preventing the damaging effects of the inflam- 2. Cortisol decreases permeability of the capillaries, matory response can often be a lifesaving measure. probably as a secondary effect of the reduced re- lease of proteolytic enzymes. This decrease in per- meability prevents loss of plasma into the tissues. Other Effects of Cortisol 3. Cortisol decreases migration of white blood cells into the Cortisol Blocks the Inflammatory Response to Allergic inflamed area and phagocytosis of the damaged cells. Reactions. The basic allergic reaction between antigen and These effects probably result from the fact that cortisol antibody is not affected by cortisol, and even some of the diminishes formation of prostaglandins and leukot- secondary effects of the allergic reaction still occur. How- rienes that otherwise would increase vasodilation, cap- ever, because the inflammatory response is responsible for illary permeability, and mobility of white blood cells. many of the serious and sometimes lethal effects of allergic 4. Cortisol suppresses the immune system, causing reactions, administration of cortisol, followed by its effect in lymphocyte reproduction to decrease markedly. The reducing inflammation and release of inflammatory prod- ucts, can be lifesaving. For instance, cortisol effectively pre- T lymphocytes are especially suppressed. In turn, vents shock or death as a result of
