Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


inflammation and release of inflammatory prod- ucts, can be lifesaving. For instance, cortisol effectively pre- T lymphocytes are especially suppressed. In turn, vents shock or death as a result of anaphylaxis, a condition reduced amounts of T cells and antibodies in the that otherwise kills many people, as explained in Chapter 35. inflamed area lessen tissue reactions that would Effect on Blood Cells and on Immunity in Infectious otherwise promote inflammation. Diseases. Cortisol decreases the number of eosinophils 5. Cortisol attenuates fever mainly because it reduces and lymphocytes in the blood; this effect begins within a release of interleukin- 1 from white blood cells, which few minutes after injection of cortisol and becomes marked is one of the principal excitants to the hypothalamic within a few hours. Indeed, a finding of lymphocytopenia temperature control system. The decreased temper- or eosinopenia is an important diagnostic criterion for ature in turn reduces the degree of vasodilation. overproduction of cortisol by the adrenal gland. 965 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Likewise, administration of large doses of cortisol Kidney causes significant atrophy of lymphoid tissue throughout Colon the body, which in turn decreases output of T cells and Sweat glands Glucocorticoid antibodies from the lymphoid tissue. As a result, the level Salivary glands receptor of immunity for almost all foreign invaders of the body is Cortisol decreased. This decrease occasionally can lead to fulminat- Cortisol Cortisol ing infection and death from diseases that would otherwise (active) (active) not be lethal, such as fulminating tuberculosis in a person whose disease had previously been arrested. However, this 11(cid:31)(cid:30)HSD2 ability of cortisol and other glucocorticoids to suppress im- 11(cid:31)(cid:30)HSD1 munity makes them useful drugs in preventing immuno- Cortisone logical rejection of transplanted hearts, kidneys, and other Cortisone (inactive) tissues. Cortisone Cortisol increases production of red blood cells by (inactive) mechanisms that are unclear. When excess cortisol is se- creted by the adrenal glands, polycythemia often results, Liver and conversely, when the adrenal glands secrete no cortisol, Skin anemia often results. Mineralocorticoid Brain Cellular Mechanism of Cortisol Action receptor Adipose tissue Placenta Cortisol, like other steroid hormones, exerts its effects by first interacting with intracellular receptors in target Figure 78- 7. Interconversion of active cortisol and inactive cortisone cells. Because cortisol is lipid soluble, it can easily diffuse by the two 11β- hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase isoforms (11β- HSD1 through the cell membrane. Once inside the cell, cortisol
