Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


inactive cortisone cells. Because cortisol is lipid soluble, it can easily diffuse by the two 11β- hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase isoforms (11β- HSD1 through the cell membrane. Once inside the cell, cortisol and 11β- HSD2) in various tissues. binds with its protein receptor in the cytoplasm, and the hormone- receptor complex then interacts with specific Conversely, tissues such as the liver, brain, adipose tis- regulatory DNA sequences, called glucocorticoid response sue, skeletal muscle, lung, and skin express another iso- elements, to induce or repress gene transcription. Other form, 11β- HSD1, which converts inactive cortisone to ac- proteins in the cell, called transcription factors, are also tive cortisol (see Figure 78- 7). Thus, 11β- HSD1 expression necessary for the hormone- receptor complex to interact amplifies the physiological effects of glucocorticoids in tis- appropriately with the glucocorticoid response elements. sues whereas 11β- HSD2 has the opposite effect. For this Glucocorticoids increase or decrease transcription of reason the isoforms of 11β- HSD2 may serve as intracellular many genes to alter synthesis of mRNA for the proteins “gate- keepers” of tissue glucocorticoid action. that mediate their multiple physiological effects. Thus, Some studies suggest that increased adipose tissue ex- most of the metabolic effects of cortisol are not immedi- pression of 11β- HSD1 and excessive glucocorticoid activity ate but require 45 to 60 minutes for proteins to be syn- may contribute to the metabolic abnormalities, including thesized, and up to several hours or days to fully develop. insulin resistance and diabetes mellitus, associated with Some evidence suggests that glucocorticoids, especially at obesity. Elevated brain 11β- HSD1 has also been associated high concentrations, may also have some rapid nongenomic with cognitive decline in aging. However, the physiological effects on cell membrane ion transport that may contribute factors that regulate these isoforms of 11β- HSD and their to their therapeutic benefits. role in common diseases such as obesity and dementia are Modulation of Glucocorticoid Effects by 11β- still poorly understood. Hydroxysteroid Dehydrogenase An important mechanism for modulating the physi- REGULATION OF CORTISOL SECRETION ological effects of cortisol is local tissue expression of BY ADRENOCORTICOTROPIC HORMONE isoforms of the enzyme 11β-h ydroxysteroid dehydroge- nase (11β- HSD). As discussed previously, one isoform, FROM THE PITUITARY GLAND 11β- HSD2, metabolizes cortisol to inactive cortisone at ACTH Stimulates Cortisol Secretion. Unlike aldosterone the pre- receptor level in the renal tubules and therefore protects the mineralocorticoid receptor from activation secretion by the zona glomerulosa,
