Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


inactive cortisone at ACTH Stimulates Cortisol Secretion. Unlike aldosterone the pre- receptor level in the renal tubules and therefore protects the mineralocorticoid receptor from activation secretion by the zona glomerulosa, which is controlled by cortisol. This enzyme is also present in other tissues mainly by potassium and angiotensin II acting directly on such as the colon, sweat glands, salivary glands, and the the adrenocortical cells, secretion of cortisol is controlled placenta (Figure 78-7 ). When 11β- HSD2 is deficient, as almost entirely by ACTH that is secreted by the anterior in apparent mineralocorticoid excess syndrome due to ge- pituitary gland. This hormone, also called corticotropin or netic mutations or excessive licorice ingestion, or when adrenocorticotropin, also enhances the production of ad- circulating cortisol concentrations are extremely high, renal androgens. as in Cushing’s syndrome, this mechanism for cortisol metabolism may be overwhelmed. As a result, the high Chemistry of ACTH. ACTH has been isolated in pure levels of cortisol strongly activate the mineralocorticoid form from the anterior pituitary. It is a large polypep- receptor and cause sodium retention, hypertension, and tide, having a chain length of 39 amino acids. A smaller hypokalemia. polypeptide, a digested product of ACTH having a chain 966 Chapter 78 Adrenocortical Hormones length of 24 amino acids, has all the effects of the total Hypothalamus Excites molecule. Stress ACTH Secretion Is Controlled by Corticotropin- Releasing Factor From the Hypothalamus. In the same way that other pituitary hormones are controlled by releas- Portal Median ing factors from the hypothalamus, an important releasing vessel eminence (CRF) factor also controls ACTH secretion. This factor is called corticotropin- releasing factor (CRF). It is secreted into the primary capillary plexus of the hypophysial portal system Inhibits Relieves in the median eminence of the hypothalamus and then car- ried to the anterior pituitary gland, where it induces ACTH ACTH secretion. CRF is a peptide composed of 41 amino acids. The cell bodies of the neurons that secrete CRF are located mainly in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. This nucleus in turn receives many nervous connections Cortisol Adrenal cortex from the limbic system and lower brain stem. The anterior pituitary gland can secrete only minute quantities of ACTH in the absence of CRF. Instead, most 1. Gluconeogenesis conditions that cause high ACTH secretory rates initiate 2. Protein mobilization 3. Fat mobilization this secretion by signals that begin in the basal regions 4. Stabilizes
