Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Instead, most 1. Gluconeogenesis conditions that cause high ACTH secretory rates initiate 2. Protein mobilization 3. Fat mobilization this secretion by signals that begin in the basal regions 4. Stabilizes lysosomes of the brain, including the hypothalamus, and are then transmitted by CRF to the anterior pituitary gland. Figure 78- 8. Mechanism for regulation of glucocorticoid secretion. ACTH, Adrenocorticotropic hormone; CRF, corticotropin-r eleasing ACTH Activates Adrenocortical Cells to Produce Ster- factor. oids by Increasing cAMP. The principal effect of ACTH on the adrenocortical cells is to activate adenylyl cyclase to neurons of the paraventricular nucleus, and eventually in the cell membrane. This activation then induces forma- to the median eminence of the hypothalamus, as shown tion of cAMP in the cell cytoplasm, reaching its maximal in Figure 78- 8. Here CRF is secreted into the hypophysial effect in about 3 minutes. The cAMP in turn activates the portal system. Within minutes the entire control sequence intracellular enzymes that cause formation of the adreno- leads to large quantities of cortisol in the blood. cortical hormones, which is another example of cAMP as Mental stress can cause an equally rapid increase a second messenger signal system. in ACTH secretion. This increase is believed to result The most important of all the ACTH- stimulated from increased activity in the limbic system, especially steps for controlling adrenocortical secretion is acti- in the region of the amygdala and hippocampus, both vation of the enzyme protein kinase A, which causes of which then transmit signals to the posterior medial initial conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone. This hypothalamus. initial conversion is the “rate- limiting” step for all the adrenocortical hormones, which explains why ACTH is Inhibitory Effect of Cortisol on the Hypothalamus normally necessary for any adrenocortical hormones to and Anterior Pituitary to Decrease ACTH Secre- be formed. Long- term stimulation of the adrenal cor- tion. Cortisol has direct negative feedback effects on tex by ACTH not only increases secretory activity but (1) the hypothalamus to decrease formation of CRF also causes hypertrophy and proliferation of the adre- and (2) the anterior pituitary gland to decrease forma- nocortical cells, especially in the zona fasciculata and tion of ACTH. Both of these feedbacks help regulate the zona reticularis, where cortisol and the androgens are plasma concentration of cortisol. That is, whenever the secreted. cortisol concentration becomes too great, the feedbacks automatically reduce the ACTH toward a normal con-
