Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


where cortisol and the androgens are plasma concentration of cortisol. That is, whenever the secreted. cortisol concentration becomes too great, the feedbacks automatically reduce the ACTH toward a normal con- Physiological Stress Increases ACTH and Adrenocorti- trol level. cal Secretion. As pointed out earlier in the chapter, al- Summary of the Cortisol Control System most any type of physical or mental stress can lead within minutes to greatly enhanced secretion of ACTH and con- Figure 78- 8 shows the overall system for control of cor- sequently cortisol as well, often increasing cortisol secre- tisol secretion. The key to this control is the excitation tion as much as 20-f old. This effect was demonstrated by of the hypothalamus by different types of stress. Stress the rapid and strong adrenocortical secretory responses stimuli activate the entire system to cause rapid release of after trauma shown in Figure 78- 6. cortisol, and cortisol in turn initiates a series of metabolic Pain stimuli caused by physical stress or tissue dam- effects directed toward relieving the damaging nature of age are transmitted first upward through the brain stem the stressful state. 967 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Synthesis and Secretion of ACTH in Direct feedback of cortisol to both the hypothala- Association With Melanocyte-S timulating mus and the anterior pituitary gland also occurs to Hormone, Lipotropin, and Endorphin decrease the concentration of cortisol in the plasma at times when the body is not experiencing stress. How- When ACTH is secreted by the anterior pituitary gland, ever, the stress stimuli are the most potent ones; they several other hormones that have similar chemical struc- can always break through this direct inhibitory feed- tures are secreted simultaneously. The gene that is tran- back of cortisol, causing either periodic exacerbations scribed to form the RNA molecule that causes ACTH of cortisol secretion at multiple times during the day synthesis initially causes formation of a considerably larger (Figure 78-9 ) or prolonged cortisol secretion in times protein, a preprohormone called pro- opiomelanocortin of chronic stress. (POMC), which is the precursor of ACTH and several other peptides, including melanocyte- stimulating hor- mone (MSH), β- lipotropin, β- endorphin, and a few others Circadian Rhythm of Glucocorticoid Secretion. The se- (Figure 78- 10). Under normal conditions, most of these cretory rates of CRF, ACTH, and cortisol are high in the hormones are not secreted in enough quantity by the pitu-
