Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


(Figure 78- 10). Under normal conditions, most of these cretory rates of CRF, ACTH, and cortisol are high in the hormones are not secreted in enough quantity by the pitu- early morning but low in the late evening, as shown in Fig- itary to have a major effect on the human body, but when ure 78- 9; plasma cortisol level ranges between a high of about 20 μg/dl an hour before arising in the morning and the rate of secretion of ACTH is high, as may occur in a low of about 5 μg/dl around midnight. This effect results persons with Addison’s disease, formation of some of the from a 24-h our cyclical alteration in the signals from the other POMC- derived hormones may also be increased. hypothalamus that cause cortisol secretion. When a person The POMC gene is actively transcribed in several changes his or her daily sleeping habits, the cycle changes tissues, including the corticotroph cells of the anterior correspondingly. Therefore, measurements of blood corti- pituitary, POMC neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the sol levels are meaningful only when expressed in terms of hypothalamus, cells of the dermis, and lymphoid tissue. the time in the cycle at which the measurements are made. In all of these cell types, POMC is processed to form a series of smaller peptides. The precise type of POMC- 20 derived products from a particular tissue depends on the type of processing enzymes present in the tissue. Thus, pituitary corticotroph cells express prohormone conver- 15 tase 1 (PC1), resulting in the production of N- terminal peptide, joining peptide, ACTH, and β- lipotropin. In the 10 hypothalamus, the expression of PC2 leads to production of α-M SH, β-M SH, γ-M SH, and β- endorphin, but not 5 ACTH. As discussed in Chapter 72, α- MSH formed by neurons of the hypothalamus plays a major role in appe- 0 tite regulation. 12:00 4:00 8:00 12:00 4:00 8:00 12:00 In melanocytes located in abundance between the der- AM PM Noon mis and epidermis of the skin, MSH stimulates formation of the black pigment melanin and disperses it to the epi- Figure 78- 9. Typical pattern of cortisol concentration during the day. Note the oscillations in secretion, as well as a daily secretory dermis. Injection of MSH into a person over 8 to 10 days surge an hour or so after waking in the morning. can greatly
