Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


as well as a daily secretory dermis. Injection of MSH into a person over 8 to 10 days surge an hour or so after waking in the morning. can greatly increase darkening of the skin. The effect is NH COOH 2 Proopiomelanocortin N-Terminal protein Joining ACTH β-Lipotropin protein Figure 78-1 0. Pro- opiomelanocortin process- PCI ing by prohormone convertase 1 (PC1; red ar- rows) and PC2 (blue arrows). Tissue- specific PC2 γ-MSH α-MSH CLIP γ-Lipotropin β-Endorphin expression of these two enzymes results in different peptides produced in various tissues. ACTH, Adrenocorticotropic hormone; CLIP, corticotropin- like intermediate peptide; MSH, melanocyte- stimulating hormone. β-MSH 968 noitartnecnoc lositroC )lm 001/gµ( Chapter 78 Adrenocortical Hormones much greater in people who have genetically dark skins Mineralocorticoid Deficiency. Lack of aldosterone se- than in light- skinned people. cretion greatly decreases renal tubular sodium reabsorp- In some animals, an intermediate “lobe” of the pitu- tion and consequently allows sodium ions, chloride ions, itary gland, called the pars intermedia, is highly devel- and water to be lost into urine in great profusion. The net result is a greatly decreased extracellular fluid volume and oped, lying between the anterior and posterior pituitary hyponatremia. Furthermore, hyperkalemia and mild acido- lobes. This lobe secretes an especially large amount of sis develop because of failure of potassium and hydrogen MSH. Furthermore, this secretion is independently con- ions to be secreted in exchange for sodium reabsorption. trolled by the hypothalamus in response to the amount As the extracellular fluid becomes depleted, plasma volume of light to which the animal is exposed or in response to falls, red blood cell concentration rises markedly, cardiac out- other environmental factors. For instance, some arctic put and blood pressure decrease, and the patient may in shock, animals develop darkened fur in the summer and yet have with death usually occurring in the untreated patient 4 days to 2 entirely white fur in the winter. weeks after complete cessation of mineralocorticoid secretion. ACTH, because it contains an MSH sequence, has about Glucocorticoid Deficiency. Loss of cortisol secretion 1⁄30 as much melanocyte- stimulating effect as MSH. Fur- makes it impossible for a person with Addison’s disease thermore, because the quantities of pure MSH secreted in to maintain normal blood glucose concentration between humans are extremely small, whereas those of ACTH are meals because he or she cannot synthesize significant quan- tities of glucose by gluconeogenesis. Furthermore, lack of large,
