Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


glucose concentration between humans are extremely small, whereas those of ACTH are meals because he or she cannot synthesize significant quan- tities of glucose by gluconeogenesis. Furthermore, lack of large, it is likely that ACTH is normally more important than cortisol reduces the mobilization of proteins and fats from MSH in determining the amount of melanin in the skin. the tissues, thereby depressing many other metabolic func- tions of the body. This sluggishness of energy mobilization Adrenal Androgens when cortisol is not available is one of the major detrimen- Several moderately active male sex hormones called adre- tal effects of glucocorticoid deficiency. Even when excess nal androgens (the most important of which is dehydroe- quantities of glucose and other nutrients are available, the piandrosterone) are continually secreted by the adrenal person’s muscles are weak, indicating that glucocorticoids cortex, especially during fetal life, as discussed in Chapter are necessary to maintain other metabolic functions of the 84. Also, progesterone and estrogens, which are female sex tissues in addition to energy metabolism. hormones, are secreted in minute quantities. Lack of adequate glucocorticoid secretion also makes Normally, the adrenal androgens have only weak effects a person with Addison’s disease highly susceptible to the in humans. It is possible that part of the early development deteriorating effects of different types of stress, and even a of the male sex organs results from childhood secretion mild respiratory infection can cause death. of adrenal androgens. The adrenal androgens also exert Melanin Pigmentation. Another characteristic of most mild effects in the female, not only before puberty but also people with Addison’s disease is melanin pigmentation of the throughout life. Much of the growth of the pubic and axillary mucous membranes and skin. This melanin is not always de- hair in the female results from the action of these hormones. posited evenly but occasionally is deposited in blotches, and it In extra- adrenal tissues, some of the adrenal androgens is deposited especially in the thin skin areas, such as the mu- are converted to testosterone, the primary male sex hor- cous membranes of the lips and the thin skin of the nipples. mone, which probably accounts for much of their andro- When cortisol secretion is depressed, the normal nega- genic activity. The physiological effects of androgens are tive feedback to the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary discussed in Chapter 81 in relation to male sexual function. gland is also
