Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


nega- genic activity. The physiological effects of androgens are tive feedback to the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary discussed in Chapter 81 in relation to male sexual function. gland is also depressed, therefore allowing tremendous rates of ACTH secretion, as well as simultaneous secretion Abnormalities of Adrenocortical Secretion of increased amounts of MSH. The large amounts of ACTH Hypoadrenalism (Adrenal Insufficiency)— probably cause most of the pigmenting effect because they Addison’s Disease can stimulate formation of melanin by the melanocytes in Addison’s disease results from an inability of the adrenal the same way that MSH does. cortices to produce sufficient adrenocortical hormones, Treatment of People With Addison's Disease. An un- and this in turn is most frequently caused by primary atro- treated person with total adrenal destruction dies within a phy or injury of the adrenal cortices. In about 80% of cases, few days to a few weeks because of weakness and, usually, the atrophy is caused by autoimmunity against the cortices. circulatory shock. Yet, such a person can live for years if Adrenal gland hypofunction may also be caused by tuber- small quantities of mineralocorticoids and glucocorticoids culous destruction of the adrenal glands or invasion of the are administered daily. adrenal cortices by cancer. Adrenal Crisis. As noted earlier in the chapter, large In some cases, adrenal insufficiency is secondary to im- quantities of glucocorticoids are occasionally secreted in paired function of the pituitary gland, which fails to pro- response to different types of physical or mental stress. In duce sufficient ACTH. When ACTH output is too low, cor- a person with Addison’s disease, the output of glucocorti- tisol and aldosterone production decrease, and eventually coids does not increase during stress. Yet, during different the adrenal glands may atrophy because of a lack of ACTH types of trauma, disease, or other stresses, such as surgi- stimulation. Secondary adrenal insufficiency is much more cal operations, a person is likely to have an acute need for common than Addison's disease, which is sometimes called increased amounts of glucocorticoids and often must be primary adrenal insufficiency. Disturbances in severe ad- given 10 or more times the normal quantities of glucocorti- renal insufficiency are described in the following sections. coids to prevent death. 969 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Figure 78- 11. A person with Cushing's syndrome before (left) and after (right) a subtotal adrenalectomy. (Courtesy Dr. Leonard Posey.) This critical need
