Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Figure 78- 11. A person with Cushing's syndrome before (left) and after (right) a subtotal adrenalectomy. (Courtesy Dr. Leonard Posey.) This critical need for extra glucocorticoids and the as- independent Cushing’s syndrome) usually have low or un- sociated severe debility in times of acute stress is called an detectable levels of ACTH. adrenal (or Addisonian) crisis. The dexamethasone test, although widely used, can Hyperadrenalism—Cushing’s Syndrome sometimes result in an incorrect diagnosis because some ACTH- secreting pituitary tumors do respond to dexa- Hypersecretion by the adrenal cortex causes a complex cas- methasone with suppressed ACTH secretion. Also, non- cade of hormone effects called Cushing's syndrome. Many of pituitary malignant tumors that produce ACTH ectopi- the abnormalities of Cushing’s syndrome can be ascribed to cally, such as some lung carcinomas, are not responsive abnormal amounts of cortisol, but excess secretion of andro- to glucocorticoid- negative feedback. Therefore, the dexa- gens may also cause important effects. Hypercortisolism can methasone test is usually considered to be a first step in the occur from multiple causes, including (1) adenomas of the differential diagnosis of Cushing’s syndrome. anterior pituitary that secrete large amounts of ACTH, which Cushing’s syndrome can also occur when large amounts then causes adrenal hyperplasia and excess cortisol secretion; of glucocorticoids are administered over prolonged peri- (2) abnormal function of the hypothalamus that causes high ods for therapeutic purposes. For example, patients with levels of corticotropin-r eleasing hormone, which stimulates chronic inflammation associated with diseases such as excess ACTH release; (3) “ectopic secretion” of ACTH by a tu- rheumatoid arthritis are often treated with glucocorti- mor elsewhere in the body, such as an abdominal carcinoma; coids and may experience some of the clinical symptoms of and (4) adenomas of the adrenal cortex. When Cushing’s syn- Cushing syndrome. drome is secondary to excess secretion of ACTH by the ante- A special characteristic of Cushing’s syndrome is mo- rior pituitary, this condition is referred to as Cushing's disease. bilization of fat from the lower part of the body, with con- Excess ACTH secretion is the most common cause of comitant extra deposition of fat in the thoracic and upper Cushing’s syndrome and is characterized by high plasma abdominal regions, giving rise to a buffalo-l ike torso. The levels of ACTH and cortisol. Primary overproduction of excess secretion of steroids also leads to an edematous ap- cortisol by the
