Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


regions, giving rise to a buffalo-l ike torso. The levels of ACTH and cortisol. Primary overproduction of excess secretion of steroids also leads to an edematous ap- cortisol by the adrenal glands accounts for about 20% to 25% pearance of the face, and the androgenic potency of some of clinical cases of Cushing’s syndrome and is usually associ- of the hormones sometimes causes acne and hirsutism (ex- ated with reduced ACTH levels due to cortisol feedback in- cess growth of facial hair). The appearance of the face is hibition of ACTH secretion by the anterior pituitary gland. frequently described as a “moon face,” as demonstrated in Administration of large doses of dexamethasone, a the untreated patient with Cushing’s syndrome to the left synthetic glucocorticoid, can be used to distinguish be- in Figure 78- 11. About 80% of patients have hypertension, tween ACTH- dependent and ACTH- independent Cush- presumably because of the mineralocorticoid effects of cor- ing’s syndrome. In patients who have overproduction of tisol. ACTH due to an ACTH- secreting pituitary adenoma Effects of Cushing’s Syndrome on Carbohydrate and or to hypothalamic- pituitary dysfunction, low doses of Protein Metabolism. The abundance of cortisol secreted dexamethasone usually do not suppress ACTH secretion in Cushing’s syndrome can increase blood glucose con- normally. By increasing the dose of dexamethasone to centration, sometimes to values as high as 200 mg/dl af- very high levels, ACTH eventually can be suppressed in ter meals—as much as twice normal. This increase results most patients with Cushing’s disease. In contrast, patients mainly from enhanced gluconeogenesis and decreased glu- with primary adrenal overproduction of cortisol (ACTH- cose utilization by the tissues. 970 Chapter 78 Adrenocortical Hormones The effects of glucocorticoids on protein catabolism are of- ten profound in Cushing’s syndrome, causing greatly decreased tissue proteins almost everywhere in the body with the excep- tion of the liver; the plasma proteins also remain unaffected. The loss of protein from the muscles in particular causes severe weakness. The loss of protein synthesis in the lymphoid tissues leads to a suppressed immune system, and thus these patients are highly susceptible to infections. Even the protein collagen fibers in the subcutaneous tissue are diminished so that the subcutaneous tissues tear easily, resulting in development of large purplish striae where they have torn apart. In addition, se- verely diminished protein deposition in the bones often causes severe osteoporosis with consequent weakness of the bones.
