Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


development of large purplish striae where they have torn apart. In addition, se- verely diminished protein deposition in the bones often causes severe osteoporosis with consequent weakness of the bones. Treatment of People With Cushing’s Syndrome. Treat- ment of people with Cushing’s syndrome consists of remov- ing an adrenal tumor if this is the cause or decreasing the se- cretion of ACTH, if possible. Hypertrophied pituitary glands or even small tumors in the pituitary that oversecrete ACTH can sometimes be surgically removed or destroyed by radia- tion. Drugs that block steroidogenesis, such as metyrapone, ketoconazole, and aminoglutethimide, or that inhibit ACTH secretion, such as serotonin antagonists and GABA- transaminase inhibitors, can also be used when surgery is not feasible. If ACTH secretion cannot easily be decreased, the only satisfactory treatment is usually bilateral partial (or even total) adrenalectomy, followed by administration of adrenal steroids to make up for any insufficiency that develops. Figure 78- 12. Adrenogenital syndrome in a 4-y ear- old boy. (Cour- tesy Dr. Leonard Posey.) Primary Aldosteronism (Conn’s Syndrome) Occasionally a small tumor of the zona glomerulosa cells also has the genetic trait for baldness, masculine distribu- occurs and secretes large amounts of aldosterone; the re- tion of hair on the body and the pubis, growth of the clito- sulting condition is called primary aldosteronism or Conn’s ris to resemble a penis, and deposition of proteins in the syndrome. Also, in a few instances, hyperplastic adrenal skin and especially in the muscles to give typical masculine cortices secrete aldosterone rather than cortisol. The effects characteristics. of the excess aldosterone are discussed in detail earlier in In the prepubertal male, a virilizing adrenal tumor the chapter. The most important effects are hypokalemia, causes the same characteristics as in the female plus rapid mild metabolic alkalosis, a slight increase in extracellular development of the male sexual organs, as shown in Figure fluid volume and blood volume, a modest increase in plas- 78- 12, which depicts a 4- year- old boy with adrenogenital ma sodium concentration (usually <4–6- mEq/L increase) syndrome. In the adult male, the virilizing characteristics and, almost always, hypertension. Especially interesting in of adrenogenital syndrome are usually obscured by the nor- persons with primary aldosteronism are occasional periods mal virilizing characteristics of the testosterone secreted by of muscle paralysis caused by the hypokalemia. The paraly- the testes. It is often difficult to make a diagnosis of adreno-
