Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


periods mal virilizing characteristics of the testosterone secreted by of muscle paralysis caused by the hypokalemia. The paraly- the testes. It is often difficult to make a diagnosis of adreno- sis is caused by a depressant effect of low extracellular po- genital syndrome in the adult male. In adrenogenital syn- tassium concentration on action potential transmission by drome, the excretion of 17-k etosteroids (which are derived the nerve fibers, as explained in Chapter 5. from androgens) in the urine may be 10 to 15 times normal. One of the diagnostic criteria of primary aldosteron- This finding can be used in diagnosing the disease. ism is a decreased plasma renin concentration. This de- crease results from feedback suppression of renin secretion caused by the excess aldosterone or by the excess extracel- Bibliography lular fluid volume and arterial pressure resulting from the Berger I, Werdermann M, Bornstein SR, Steenblock C: The adrenal aldosteronism. Treatment of primary aldosteronism may gland in stress - adaptation on a cellular level. J Steroid Biochem include surgical removal of the tumor or of most of the ad- Mol Biol 190:198, 2019. renal tissue when hyperplasia is the cause. Another option Bornstein SR: Predisposing factors for adrenal insufficiency. N Engl J for treatment is pharmacological antagonism of the min- Med 360:2328, 2009. eralocorticoid receptor with spironolactone or eplerenone. Chapman K, Holmes M, Seckl J: 11β- hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases: Adrenogenital Syndrome intracellular gate-k eepers of tissue glucocorticoid action. Physiol Rev 93:1139, 2013. Occasionally an adrenocortical tumor secretes excessive Dineen R, Stewart PM, Sherlock M: Factors impacting on the action quantities of androgens that cause intense masculinizing of glucocorticoids in patients receiving glucocorticoid therapy. Clin effects throughout the body. If this phenomenon occurs in Endocrinol (Oxf) 90:3, 2019. a female, virile characteristics develop, including growth of Feelders RA, Hofland LJ: Medical treatment of Cushing disease. J Clin a beard, a much deeper voice, occasionally baldness if she Endocrinol Metab 98:425, 2013. 971 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Funder JW: Primary aldosteronism. Hypertension 74:458, 2019. Scaroni C, Zilio M, Foti M, Boscaro M: Glucose metabolism abnor- Hall JE, Granger JP, Smith MJ Jr, Premen AJ: Role of renal hemody- malities in Cushing syndrome: from molecular basis to clinical man- namics and arterial pressure in aldosterone “escape.” Hyperten- agement. Endocr Rev 38:189, 2017. sion 6:I183, 1984. Spat A, Hunyady L: Control of aldosterone secretion: a model for con- Hardy RS, Zhou
