Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


have The main purpose of this chapter is to discuss the physi- diminished ability to synthesize proteins which leads to ological roles of insulin and glucagon and the pathophysi- wasting of the tissues and many cellular functional disor- ology of diseases, especially diabetes mellitus, caused by ders. Therefore, it is clear that insulin affects fat and pro- abnormal secretion or activity of these hormones. tein metabolism almost as much as it affects carbohydrate metabolism. Physiological Anatomy of the Pancreas INSULIN IS A HORMONE ASSOCIATED The pancreas is composed of two major types of tissues, as shown in Figure 79- 1: (1) the acini, which secrete digestive WITH ENERGY ABUNDANCE juices into the duodenum, and (2) the islets of Langerhans, As we discuss insulin in the next few pages, it will become which secrete insulin and glucagon directly into the blood. The digestive secretions of the pancreas are discussed in apparent that insulin secretion is associated with energy Chapter 65. abundance. That is, when a person’s diet includes a great The human pancreas has 1 to 2 million islets of Langer- abundance of foods that provide energy, especially excess hans. Each islet is only about 0.3 millimeter in diameter and is amounts of carbohydrates, insulin secretion increases. organized around small capillaries, into which its cells secrete In turn, the insulin plays an important role in storing their hormones. The islets contain three major types of cells— the excess energy. In the case of excess carbohydrates, it alpha, beta, and delta cells—that are distinguished from one causes them to be stored as glycogen, mainly in the liver another by their morphological and staining characteristics. and muscles. Furthermore, all the excess carbohydrates The beta cells, constituting about 60% of all the cells of that cannot be stored as glycogen are converted under the islets, lie mainly in the middle of each islet and secrete the stimulus of insulin into fats and stored in adipose insulin and amylin, a hormone that is often secreted in tissue. In the case of proteins, insulin has a direct effect parallel with insulin, although its function is not well un- derstood. The alpha cells, about 25% of the total, secrete glucagon, and the delta cells, about 10% of the total, secrete Islet of Pancreatic Langerhans acini somatostatin. In addition, at least one other type of cell, the PP cell, is present in small numbers in the islets and
