Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the total, secrete Islet of Pancreatic Langerhans acini somatostatin. In addition, at least one other type of cell, the PP cell, is present in small numbers in the islets and se- cretes a hormone called pancreatic polypeptide. Delta cell The close interrelations among these cell types in the islets of Langerhans allow cell- to- cell communication and direct control of secretion of some of the hormones by the other hormones. For example, insulin inhibits glucagon se- cretion, amylin inhibits insulin secretion, and somatostatin inhibits the secretion of both insulin and glucagon. Alpha cell INSULIN AND ITS METABOLIC EFFECTS Insulin was first isolated from the pancreas in 1922 by Red blood cells Banting and Best, and almost overnight rescued patients Beta cell with severe cases of diabetes mellitus from a rapid decline Figure 79- 1. Physiological anatomy of an islet of Langerhans in the in health and early death. Historically, insulin has been pancreas. 973 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Proinsulin peptide (C peptide). The insulin and C peptide are pack- C chain aged in secretory granules and secreted in equimolar amounts. About 5% to 10% of the final secreted product is –COOH still in the form of proinsulin. 21 Cleavage The proinsulin and C peptide have virtually no insu- 1 30 Cleavage lin activity. However, C peptide binds to a membrane –NH 2 structure, most likely a G protein–coupled membrane A chain 1 receptor, and elicits activation of at least two enzyme systems, sodium- potassium adenosine triphosphatase B chain and endothelial nitric oxide synthase. Although both of these enzymes have multiple physiological functions, the importance of C peptide in regulating these enzymes is still uncertain. Secretory C peptide levels can be measured by radioimmunoas- granule say in insulin- treated diabetic patients to determine how C peptide much of their own natural insulin they are still producing. Patients with type 1 diabetes who are unable to produce insulin will usually also have greatly decreased levels of C peptide. When insulin is secreted into the blood, it circulates almost entirely in an unbound form. Because it has a plasma half- life that averages only about 6 minutes, it is mainly cleared from the circulation within 10 to 15 min- utes. Except for the portion of the insulin that combines with receptors in the target cells, the insulin is degraded Insulin by the enzyme insulinase mainly in the liver, to a
