Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Except for the portion of the insulin that combines with receptors in the target cells, the insulin is degraded Insulin by the enzyme insulinase mainly in the liver, to a lesser extent in the kidneys and muscles, and slightly in most other tissues. This rapid removal from the plasma is Figure 79-2 . A schematic of the human proinsulin molecule, which important because, at times, it is as important to rapidly is cleaved in the Golgi apparatus of the pancreatic beta cells to form turn off the control functions of insulin as it is to turn connecting peptide (C peptide), and insulin, which is composed of the A and B chains connected by disulfide bonds. The C peptide and them on. insulin are packaged in granules and secreted in equimolar amounts, along with a small amount of proinsulin. ACTIVATION OF TARGET CELL RECEPTORS BY INSULIN AND THE RESULTING in promoting amino acid uptake by cells and conversion CELLULAR EFFECTS of these amino acids into protein. In addition, it inhibits breakdown of proteins that are already in the cells. To initiate its effects on target cells, insulin must first bind with and activate a membrane receptor protein that has a INSULIN CHEMISTRY AND SYNTHESIS molecular weight of about 300,000 (Figure 79- 3). The insulin receptor is a combination of four subunits Human insulin, which has a molecular weight of 5808, is held together by disulfide linkages: two alpha subunits that composed of two amino acid chains, shown in Figure 79- 2, lie entirely outside the cell membrane and two beta sub- that are connected to each other by disulfide linkages. units that penetrate through the membrane, protruding When the two amino acid chains are split apart, insulin’s into the cell cytoplasm. Insulin binds with the alpha sub- functional activity is lost. units on the outside of the cell, but because of the linkages Insulin is synthesized in beta cells by the usual cell with the beta subunits, portions of the beta subunits pro- machinery for protein synthesis, as explained in Chapter 3, truding into the cell become autophosphorylated. Thus, beginning with translation of the insulin RNA by ribo- the insulin receptor is an example of an enzyme- linked somes attached to the endoplasmic reticulum to form receptor, discussed in Chapter 75. Autophosphorylation preproinsulin. This initial preproinsulin has a molecular of the beta subunits of the receptor activates a local tyro- weight
