Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the endoplasmic reticulum to form receptor, discussed in Chapter 75. Autophosphorylation preproinsulin. This initial preproinsulin has a molecular of the beta subunits of the receptor activates a local tyro- weight of about 11,500, but it is then cleaved in the endo- sine kinase, which in turn causes phosphorylation of mul- plasmic reticulum to form a proinsulin with a molecular tiple other intracellular enzymes, including a group called weight of about 9000 and consisting of three chains of insulin- receptor substrates (IRS). Different types of IRS peptides, A, B, and C. Most of the proinsulin is further (e.g., IRS- 1, IRS- 2, and IRS-3 ) are expressed in different cleaved in the Golgi apparatus to form insulin, which tissues. The net effect is to activate some of these enzymes is composed of the A and B chains connected by disul- while inactivating others. In this way, insulin directs the fide linkages, and the C chain peptide, called connecting intracellular metabolic machinery to produce the desired 974 Chapter 79 Insulin, Glucagon, and Diabetes Mellitus Insulin mainly from the changed states of phosphorylation of the enzymes. Insulin 4. Much slower effects continue to occur for hours α S S α receptor and even several days. These result from changed S S S S rates of translation of messenger RNAs at the ribo- somes to form new proteins and still slower effects from changed rates of transcription of DNA in the Glucose cell nucleus. In this way, insulin remolds much of the cellular enzymatic machinery to achieve some β Cell membrane β of its metabolic effects. Tyrosine Tyrosine EFFECT OF INSULIN ON CARBOHYDRATE kinase kinase METABOLISM Insulin receptor substrates (IRS) Phosphorylation of enzymes Immediately after a high-c arbohydrate meal is consumed, glucose that is absorbed into the blood causes rapid secre- Fat Growth tion of insulin, which is discussed in detail later in the synthesis and gene chapter. The insulin in turn causes rapid uptake, storage, expression Glucose and use of glucose by almost all tissues of the body but transport especially by the muscles, adipose tissue, and liver. Protein Glycogen synthesis synthesis Insulin Promotes Muscle Glucose Uptake Figure 79-3 . A schematic of the insulin receptor. Insulin binds to and Metabolism the α subunit of its receptor, which causes autophosphorylation of the β- subunit receptor, which in turn induces tyrosine kinase activ- During much of the day, muscle tissue depends not on ity.
