Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


subunit of its receptor, which causes autophosphorylation of the β- subunit receptor, which in turn induces tyrosine kinase activ- During much of the day, muscle tissue depends not on ity. The receptor tyrosine kinase activity begins a cascade of cell glucose but on fatty acids for its energy. The principal phosphorylation that increases or decreases the activity of enzymes, reason for this dependence on fatty acids is that the nor- including insulin receptor substrates, that mediate the effects on glu- mal resting muscle membrane is only slightly permeable cose, fat, and protein metabolism. For example, glucose transporters are moved to the cell membrane to assist glucose entry into the cell. to glucose, except when the muscle fiber is stimulated by insulin; between meals, the amount of insulin that is secreted is too small to promote significant amounts of effects on carbohydrate, fat, and protein metabolism. The glucose entry into the muscle cells. following are the main end effects of insulin stimulation: However, under two conditions the muscles do use 1. Within seconds after insulin binds with its mem- large amounts of glucose. One of these is during mod- brane receptors, the membranes of about 80% of erate or heavy exercise. This usage of glucose does not the body’s cells markedly increase their uptake of require large amounts of insulin because muscle con- glucose. This action is especially true of muscle cells traction increases translocation of glucose transporter 4 and adipose cells, but it is not true of most neurons (GLUT 4) from intracellular storage depots to the cell in the brain. The increased glucose transported membrane, which, in turn, facilitates diffusion of glu- into the cells is immediately phosphorylated and cose into the cell. becomes a substrate for all the usual carbohydrate The second condition for usage of large amounts of metabolic functions. The increased glucose trans- glucose by muscles is during the few hours after a meal. port is believed to result from translocation of mul- At this time the blood glucose concentration is high and tiple intracellular vesicles to the cell membranes; the pancreas is secreting large quantities of insulin. The these vesicles carry multiple molecules of glucose extra insulin causes rapid transport of glucose into the transport proteins, which bind with the cell mem- muscle cells, which causes the muscle cell to use glucose brane and facilitate glucose uptake into the cells. preferentially over fatty acids during
