Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


proteins, which bind with the cell mem- muscle cells, which causes the muscle cell to use glucose brane and facilitate glucose uptake into the cells. preferentially over fatty acids during this period, as will be When insulin is no longer available, these vesicles discussed later. separate from the cell membrane within about 3 to 5 minutes and move back to the cell interior to be Storage of Glycogen in Muscle. If the muscles are not used again and again, as needed. exercised after a meal and yet glucose is transported into 2. The cell membrane becomes more permeable to the muscle cells in abundance, instead of being used for many of the amino acids, potassium ions, and phos- energy, most of the glucose is stored in the form of mus- phate ions, causing increased transport of these cle glycogen, up to a limit of 2% to 3% concentration. The substances into the cell. glycogen can be used by the muscle later for energy. Gly- 3. Slower effects occur during the next 10 to 15 min- cogen is especially useful for short periods of extreme en- utes to change the activity levels of many more in- ergy usage by the muscles and even to provide spurts of tracellular metabolic enzymes. These effects result anaerobic energy for a few minutes at a time via glycolytic 975 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction 400 enzyme glucokinase, which is one of the enzymes that causes the initial phosphorylation of glucose af- 300 Insulin ter it diffuses into the liver cells. Once phosphoryl- 200 ated, the glucose is temporarily trapped inside the liver cells because phosphorylated glucose cannot 100 diffuse back through the cell membrane. Control 0 3. Insulin increases the activities of enzymes that pro- mote glycogen synthesis, including especially glyco- gen synthase. This is responsible for polymerization 0 300 600 900 of the monosaccharide units to form glycogen mol- Extracellular glucose (mg/100 ml) ecules. The net effect of all these actions is to increase the Figure 79- 4. The effect of insulin in enhancing the concentration of glucose inside muscle cells. Note that in the absence of insulin amount of glycogen in the liver. The glycogen can increase (control), the intracellular glucose concentration remains near zero, to a total of about 5% to 6% of the liver mass, which is despite high extracellular glucose concentrations. (Data from Eisen- equivalent to almost 100
