Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


concentration remains near zero, to a total of about 5% to 6% of the liver mass, which is despite high extracellular glucose concentrations. (Data from Eisen- equivalent to almost 100 grams of stored glycogen in the stein AB: The Biochemical Aspects of Hormone Action. Boston: Little, entire liver. Brown, 1964.) Glucose Is Released From the Liver Between Meals. breakdown of the glycogen to lactic acid, which can occur When the blood glucose level begins to fall to a low level even in the absence of oxygen. between meals, several events transpire that cause the liver to release glucose back into the circulating blood: Quantitative Effect of Insulin to Facilitate 1. The decreasing blood glucose causes the pancreas Glucose Transport Through the Muscle to decrease its insulin secretion. Cell Membrane 2. The lack of insulin then reverses all the effects listed The quantitative effect of insulin to facilitate glucose earlier for glycogen storage, essentially stopping transport through the muscle cell membrane is demon- further synthesis of glycogen in the liver and pre- strated by the experimental results shown in Figure 79- 4. venting further uptake of glucose by the liver from The lower curve labeled “control” shows the concentra- the blood. tion of free glucose measured inside the cell, demonstrat- 3. The lack of insulin (along with increased glucagon, ing that the glucose concentration remained almost zero which is discussed later) activates the enzyme phos- despite increased extracellular glucose concentration up phorylase, which causes the splitting of glycogen to as high as 750 mg/100 ml. In contrast, the curve labeled into glucose phosphate. “insulin” demonstrates that the intracellular glucose con- 4. The enzyme glucose phosphatase, which had been centration rose to as high as 400 mg/100 ml when insulin inhibited by insulin, now becomes activated by the was added. Thus, it is clear that insulin can increase the lack of insulin and causes the phosphate radical to rate of transport of glucose into the resting muscle cell by split away from the glucose, allowing the free glu- at least 15-f old. cose to diffuse back into the blood. Thus, the liver removes glucose from the blood when it Insulin Promotes Liver Uptake, Storage, is present in excess after a meal and returns it to the blood and Use of Glucose when the blood glucose concentration falls between One of the most important effects of insulin is to cause meals. Ordinarily, about
