Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


returns it to the blood and Use of Glucose when the blood glucose concentration falls between One of the most important effects of insulin is to cause meals. Ordinarily, about 60% of the glucose in the meal most of the glucose absorbed after a meal to be rapidly is stored in this way in the liver and then returned later. stored in the liver in the form of glycogen. Then, between meals, when food is not available and the blood glucose Insulin Promotes Conversion of Excess Glucose Into concentration begins to fall, insulin secretion decreases Fatty Acids and Inhibits Gluconeogenesis in the rapidly and the liver glycogen is split back into glucose, Liver. When the quantity of glucose entering the liver which is released back into the blood to keep the glucose cells is more than can be stored as glycogen or can be used concentration from falling too low. for local hepatocyte metabolism, insulin promotes the The mechanism by which insulin causes glucose uptake conversion of all this excess glucose into fatty acids. These and storage in the liver includes several almost simultane- fatty acids are subsequently packaged as triglycerides in ous steps: very low density lipoproteins, which are transported in 1. Insulin inactivates liver phosphorylase, the principal the blood to adipose tissue, and deposited as fat. enzyme that causes liver glycogen to split into glu- Insulin also inhibits gluconeogenesis mainly by decreas- cose. This inactivation prevents breakdown of the ing the quantities and activities of the liver enzymes glycogen that has been stored in liver cells. required for gluconeogenesis. However, part of the effect 2. Insulin enhances uptake of glucose from the blood is caused by an action of insulin that decreases release of by the liver cells by increasing the activity of the amino acids from muscle and other extrahepatic tissues 976 esoculg ralullecartnI )lm 001/gm( Chapter 79 Insulin, Glucagon, and Diabetes Mellitus and in turn the availability of these necessary precursors liver by way of the blood lipoproteins to the adipose cells required for gluconeogenesis. This phenomenon is dis- to be stored. The following factors lead to increased fatty cussed further in relation to the effect of insulin on pro- acid synthesis in the liver: tein metabolism. 1. Insulin increases glucose transport into the liver cells. After the liver glycogen concentration reaches 5% to Lack of Effect of Insulin on Glucose 6%, further glycogen synthesis is
