Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


metabolism. 1. Insulin increases glucose transport into the liver cells. After the liver glycogen concentration reaches 5% to Lack of Effect of Insulin on Glucose 6%, further glycogen synthesis is inhibited. All the Uptake and Usage by the Brain additional glucose entering the liver cells then be- The brain is quite different from most other tissues of the comes available to form fat. The glucose is first split body in that insulin has little effect on uptake or use of to pyruvate in the glycolytic pathway, and the pyru- glucose. Instead, most of the brain cells are permeable to vate subsequently is converted to acetyl coenzyme glucose and can use glucose without the intermediation of A (acetyl- CoA), the substrate from which fatty acids insulin. are synthesized. The brain cells are also quite different from most other 2. An excess of citrate and isocitrate ions is formed by cells of the body in that they normally use only glucose the citric acid cycle when excess amounts of glucose for energy and can use other energy substrates, such as are used for energy. These ions then have a direct fats, only with difficulty. Therefore, it is essential that the effect to activate acetyl- CoA carboxylase, the en- blood glucose level always be maintained above a critical zyme required to carboxylate acetyl- CoA to form level, which is one of the most important functions of the malonyl- CoA, the first stage of fatty acid synthesis. blood glucose control system. When the blood glucose 3. Most of the fatty acids are then synthesized within level falls too low, into the range of 20 to 50 mg/100 ml, the liver and used to form triglycerides, the usual symptoms of hypoglycemic shock develop, characterized form of storage fat. They are released from the liver by progressive nervous irritability that leads to fainting, cells to the blood in the lipoproteins. Insulin acti- seizures, and even coma. vates lipoprotein lipase in the capillary walls of the adipose tissue, which splits the triglycerides again Effect of Insulin on Carbohydrate into fatty acids, a requirement for them to be ab- Metabolism in Other Cells sorbed into adipose cells, where they are again con- Insulin increases glucose transport into and glucose usage verted to triglycerides and stored. by most other cells of the body (with the exception of most brain cells, as noted) in the same way that it affects
