Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


glucose usage verted to triglycerides and stored. by most other cells of the body (with the exception of most brain cells, as noted) in the same way that it affects Role of Insulin in Storage of Fat in the Adipose Cells. glucose transport and usage in muscle cells. The transport Insulin has two other essential effects that are required for of glucose into adipose cells mainly provides substrate for fat storage in adipose cells: the glycerol portion of the fat molecule. Therefore, in this 1. Insulin inhibits the action of hormone- sensitive li- indirect way, insulin promotes deposition of fat in these pase. Lipase is the enzyme that causes hydrolysis of cells. triglycerides already stored in fat cells. Therefore, release of fatty acids from adipose tissue into the EFFECT OF INSULIN ON FAT METABOLISM circulating blood is inhibited. 2. Insulin promotes glucose transport through cell Although not quite as visible as the acute effects of insulin membranes into fat cells in the same way that it on carbohydrate metabolism, the effects of insulin on fat promotes glucose transport into muscle cells. Some metabolism are, in the long run, equally important. Espe- of this glucose is then used to synthesize minute cially dramatic is the long- term effect of insulin deficiency amounts of fatty acids, but more important, it also in causing extreme atherosclerosis, often leading to heart forms large quantities of α- glycerol phosphate. This attacks, cerebral strokes, and other vascular accidents. substance supplies the glycerol that combines with First, however, let us discuss the acute effects of insulin fatty acids to form triglycerides, the storage form of on fat metabolism. fat in adipose cells. Therefore, when insulin is not available, even storage of the large amounts of fatty Insulin Promotes Fat Synthesis and acids transported from the liver in lipoproteins is Storage almost blocked. Insulin has several effects that lead to fat storage in adi- Insulin Deficiency Increases Use of Fat for pose tissue. First, insulin increases glucose utilization by Energy most of the body’s tissues, which automatically decreases fat utilization, thus functioning as a fat sparer. However, All aspects of fat breakdown and its use for providing insulin also promotes fatty acid synthesis, especially when energy are greatly enhanced in the absence of insulin. This more carbohydrates are ingested than can be used for enhancement occurs even normally between meals when immediate energy, thus providing the substrate for
