Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


enhanced in the absence of insulin. This more carbohydrates are ingested than can be used for enhancement occurs even normally between meals when immediate energy, thus providing the substrate for fat secretion of insulin is minimal, but it becomes extreme in synthesis. Almost all this synthesis occurs in the liver persons with diabetes mellitus when secretion of insulin cells, and the fatty acids are then transported from the is almost zero. 977 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Control Depancreatized in the liver cells, the carnitine transport mechanism for trans- porting fatty acids into the mitochondria becomes increas- Blood glucose ingly activated. In the mitochondria, beta oxidation of the fatty acids then proceeds rapidly, releasing extreme amounts of acetyl-C oA. A large part of this excess acetyl-C oA is then condensed to form acetoacetic acid, which is then released Free fatty acids into the circulating blood. Most of this acetoacetic acid passes to the peripheral cells, where it is again converted into acetyl-C oA and used for energy in the usual manner. At the same time, the absence of insulin also depresses utilization of acetoacetic acid in peripheral tissues. Thus, so much acetoacetic acid is released from the liver that Acetoacetic acid it cannot all be metabolized by the tissues. As shown in 0 1 2 3 4 Figure 79- 5, the concentration of acetoacetic acid rises Days during the days after cessation of insulin secretion, some- Figure 79- 5. The effect of removing the pancreas on the approxi- times reaching concentrations of 10 mEq/L or more, mate concentrations of blood glucose, plasma free fatty acids, and which is a severe state of body fluid acidosis. acetoacetic acid. As explained in Chapter 69, some of the acetoacetic acid is also converted into β- hydroxybutyric acid and acetone. These two substances, along with the acetoace- Insulin Deficiency Causes Lipolysis of Storage Fat and tic acid, are called ketone bodies, and their presence in Release of Free Fatty Acids. In the absence of insulin, all large quantities in the body fluids is called ketosis. We will the effects of insulin noted earlier that cause storage of fat see later that in severe diabetes, the acetoacetic acid and are reversed. The most important effect is that the enzyme the β- hydroxybutyric acid can cause severe acidosis and hormone- sensitive lipase in the fat cells becomes strongly coma, which may lead to death.
