Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


important effect is that the enzyme the β- hydroxybutyric acid can cause severe acidosis and hormone- sensitive lipase in the fat cells becomes strongly coma, which may lead to death. activated. This activation causes hydrolysis of stored triglyc- erides, releasing large quantities of fatty acids and glycerol into the circulating blood. Consequently, plasma concentra- EFFECT OF INSULIN ON PROTEIN tion of free fatty acids begins to rise within minutes. These METABOLISM AND GROWTH free fatty acids then become the main energy substrate used Insulin Promotes Protein Synthesis and by essentially all tissues of the body except the brain. Storage Figure 79- 5 shows the effect of a lack of insulin on the plasma concentrations of free fatty acids, glucose, Proteins, carbohydrates, and fats are stored in the tissues and acetoacetic acid. Note that almost immediately after during the few hours after a meal when excess quantities removal of the pancreas, the free fatty acid concentration of nutrients are available in the circulating blood; insulin in the plasma begins to rise, more rapidly even than the is required for this storage to occur. The manner in which concentration of glucose. insulin causes protein storage is not as well understood as the mechanisms for both glucose and fat storage. Here are Insulin Deficiency Increases Plasma Cholesterol and some of the facts: Phospholipid Concentrations. The excess of fatty ac- 1. Insulin stimulates transport of many of the amino ids in the plasma associated with insulin deficiency also acids into the cells. Among the amino acids most promotes liver conversion of some of the fatty acids into strongly transported are valine, leucine, isoleucine, phospholipids and cholesterol, two of the major products tyrosine, and phenylalanine. Thus, insulin shares of fat metabolism. These two substances, along with ex- with growth hormone the capability of increasing cess triglycerides formed at the same time in the liver, are uptake of amino acids into cells. However, the ami- then discharged into the blood in the lipoproteins. Oc- no acids affected are not necessarily the same ones. casionally the plasma lipoproteins increase as much as 2. Insulin increases translation of messenger RNA, thus threefold in the absence of insulin, giving a total concen- forming new proteins. Insulin “turns on” the ribo- tration of plasma lipids of several percent rather than the somal machinery and, in the absence of insulin, the normal 0.6%. This high lipid concentration—especially ribosomes stop working, almost
