Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ribo- tration of plasma lipids of several percent rather than the somal machinery and, in the absence of insulin, the normal 0.6%. This high lipid concentration—especially ribosomes stop working, almost as if insulin oper- the high concentration of cholesterol—promotes devel- ates by an “on- off” mechanism. opment of atherosclerosis in people with severe diabetes. 3. Over a longer period, insulin also increases the rate of transcription of selected DNA genetic sequences in Excess Usage of Fats During Insulin Deficiency Causes the cell nuclei, thus forming increased quantities of Ketosis and Acidosis. Insulin deficiency also causes exces- RNA and still more protein synthesis—especially sive amounts of acetoacetic acid to be formed in liver cells. In promoting a vast array of enzymes for storage of the absence of insulin but in the presence of excess fatty acids carbohydrates, fats, and proteins. 978 noitartnecnoC fo lavomeR saercnap Chapter 79 Insulin, Glucagon, and Diabetes Mellitus Growth hormone Glucose Insulin and insulin 250 200 Depancreatized and GLUT 2 hypophysectomized 150 Growth Insulin Glucose hormone 100 Glucokinase 50 Glucose-6-phosphate 0 Oxidation 0 50 100 150 200 250 Days ATP Figure 79- 6. The effect of growth hormone, insulin, and growth Ca2+ hormone plus insulin on growth in a depancreatized and hypophy- K+ sectomized rat. Depolarization 4. Insulin inhibits catabolism of proteins, thus decreas- ing the rate of amino acid release from the cells, es- ATP + K+ channel Ca2+ channel pecially from muscle cells. Presumably this results (closed) (open) from the ability of insulin to diminish the normal Figure 79- 7. The basic mechanisms of glucose stimulation of insulin degradation of proteins by cellular lysosomes. secretion by beta cells of the pancreas. GLUT, Glucose transporter. 5. In the liver, insulin depresses the rate of gluconeo- genesis by decreasing activity of the enzymes that promote gluconeogenesis. Because the substrates the two hormones function synergistically to promote used most for synthesis of glucose by gluconeogen- growth, with each performing a specific function sepa- esis are plasma amino acids, this suppression of glu- rate from that of the other. Perhaps a small part of the coneogenesis conserves amino acids in the protein necessity for both hormones results from the fact that stores of the body. each hormone promotes cellular uptake of a different In summary, insulin promotes formation of protein selection of amino acids, all of which are required for and prevents degradation of proteins. growth. Insulin Deficiency Causes
