Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


uptake of a different In summary, insulin promotes formation of protein selection of amino acids, all of which are required for and prevents degradation of proteins. growth. Insulin Deficiency Causes Protein Depletion and Increased Plasma Amino MECHANISMS OF INSULIN SECRETION Acids Figure 79- 7 shows the basic cellular mechanisms for Virtually all protein storage comes to a halt when insulin insulin secretion by the pancreatic beta cells in response is not available. Catabolism of proteins increases, protein to increased blood glucose concentration, which is the synthesis stops, and large quantities of amino acids are primary controller of insulin secretion. The beta cells dumped into the plasma. Amino acid concentration in the have a large number of glucose transporters that permit plasma rises considerably, and most of the excess amino a rate of glucose influx that is proportional to the blood acids are used either directly for energy or as substrates concentration in the physiological range. Once inside the for gluconeogenesis. This degradation of amino acids also cells, glucose is phosphorylated to glucose- 6- phosphate leads to enhanced urea excretion in the urine. The result- by glucokinase. This phosphorylation appears to be the ing protein wasting is one of the most serious of all the rate- limiting step for glucose metabolism in the beta cell effects of severe diabetes mellitus. It can lead to extreme and is considered the major mechanism for glucose sens- weakness and many deranged functions of the organs. ing and adjustment of the amount of secreted insulin to the blood glucose levels. Insulin and Growth Hormone Interact The glucose- 6- phosphate is subsequently oxidized to Synergistically to Promote Growth form adenosine triphosphate (ATP), which inhibits the Because insulin is required for synthesis of proteins, ATP- sensitive potassium channels of the cell. Closure of it is as essential as growth hormone for the growth of the potassium channels depolarizes the cell membrane, an animal. As demonstrated in Figure 79-6 , a depan- thereby opening voltage- gated calcium channels, which creatized, hypophysectomized rat without replacement are sensitive to changes in membrane voltage. This effect therapy hardly grows at all. Furthermore, administration produces an influx of calcium that stimulates fusion of of either growth hormone or insulin one at a time causes the docked insulin-c ontaining vesicles with the cell mem- almost no growth. However, a combination of these hor- brane and secretion of insulin into the extracellular fluid mones
