Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


time causes the docked insulin-c ontaining vesicles with the cell mem- almost no growth. However, a combination of these hor- brane and secretion of insulin into the extracellular fluid mones causes dramatic growth. Thus, it appears that by exocytosis. 979 )smarg( thgieW UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction TABLE 79- 1 Factors and Conditions That Increase or Decrease Insulin Secretion 250 Increase Insulin Secretion Decrease Insulin Secretion 80 Increased blood glucose Decreased blood glucose 60 Increased blood free fatty Fasting acids Somatostatin 40 Increased blood amino acids α- Adrenergic activity 20 Gastrointestinal hormones Leptin (gastrin, cholecystokinin, 0 secretin, glucose- dependent −10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 insulinotropic peptide, Minutes glucagon-l ike peptide- 1) Figure 79- 8. An increase in plasma insulin concentration after a sud- Glucagon, growth hormone, den increase in blood glucose to two to three times the normal range. cortisol Note an initial rapid surge in insulin concentration and then a delayed Parasympathetic stimulation; but higher and continuing increase in concentration beginning 15 to acetylcholine 20 minutes later. β- Adrenergic stimulation Insulin resistance; obesity Sulfonylurea drugs (glyburide, times normal and is kept at this high level thereafter, insulin tolbutamide) secretion increases markedly in two stages, as shown by the changes in plasma insulin concentration in Figure 79- 8. 1. The concentration of insulin in plasma increases al- Other nutrients, such as certain amino acids, can also most 10-f old within 3 to 5 minutes after acute eleva- be metabolized by the beta cells to increase intracellular tion of the blood glucose. This increase results from ATP levels and stimulate insulin secretion. Some hor- immediate dumping of preformed insulin from the mones, such as glucagon, glucagon-l ike peptide-1 (GLP- beta cells of the islets of Langerhans. However, the in- 1), glucose- dependent insulinotropic peptide (gastric itial high rate of secretion is not maintained; instead, inhibitory peptide), and acetylcholine, increase intracel- the insulin concentration decreases about halfway lular calcium levels through other signaling pathways back toward normal in another 5 to 10 minutes. and enhance the effect of glucose, although they do not 2. Beginning at about 15 minutes, insulin secretion have major effects on insulin secretion in the absence of rises a second time and reaches a new plateau in glucose. Other hormones, including somatostatin and 2 to 3 hours, this time usually at a rate of secretion norepinephrine (by activating α- adrenergic receptors),
