Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and reaches a new plateau in glucose. Other hormones, including somatostatin and 2 to 3 hours, this time usually at a rate of secretion norepinephrine (by activating α- adrenergic receptors), even greater than that in the initial phase. This se- inhibit exocytosis of insulin. cretion results from additional release of preformed Sulfonylurea drugs stimulate insulin secretion by bind- insulin and from activation of the enzyme system ing to the ATP- sensitive potassium channels and blocking that synthesizes and releases new insulin from the their activity. This mechanism results in a depolarizing cells. effect that triggers insulin secretion, making these drugs useful in stimulating insulin secretion in patients with Feedback Relation Between Blood Glucose Concen- type 2 diabetes, as we will discuss later. Table 79- 1 sum- tration and the Insulin Secretion Rate. As blood glu- marizes some of the factors that can increase or decrease cose concentration rises above 100 mg/100 ml of blood, secretion of insulin. secretion of insulin rises rapidly, reaching a peak some 10 to 25 times the basal level at blood glucose concen- CONTROL OF INSULIN SECRETION trations between 400 and 600 mg/100 ml, as shown in Figure 79-9 . Thus, the increase in insulin secretion At one time it was believed that insulin secretion was con- during a glucose stimulus is dramatic both in its rapid- trolled almost entirely by the concentration of glucose in ity and in the high level of secretion that is achieved. the blood. However, as more has been learned about the Furthermore, the turnoff of insulin secretion is almost metabolic functions of insulin for protein and fat metabo- equally as rapid, occurring within 3 to 5 minutes after lism, it has become apparent that blood amino acids and a reduction in blood glucose concentration back to the other factors also play important roles in controlling insu- fasting level. lin secretion (see Table 79- 1). This response of insulin secretion to an elevated blood glucose concentration provides an extremely important Increased Blood Glucose Stimulates Insulin Secre- feedback mechanism for regulating blood glucose con- tion. At the normal fasting level of blood glucose of 80 to centration. That is, any rise in blood glucose increases 90 mg/100 ml, the rate of insulin secretion is minimal— insulin secretion, and the insulin in turn increases the on the order of 25 ng/min/kg of body weight, a level that rate of transport of glucose into
