Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


secretion is minimal— insulin secretion, and the insulin in turn increases the on the order of 25 ng/min/kg of body weight, a level that rate of transport of glucose into liver, muscle, and other has only slight physiological activity. If the blood glucose cells, thereby reducing blood glucose concentration back concentration is suddenly increased to a level two to three toward the normal value. 980 )lm/U(cid:31)( nilusni amsalP Chapter 79 Insulin, Glucagon, and Diabetes Mellitus 20 lesser extent, progesterone and estrogen. The importance of the stimulatory effects of these hormones is that prolonged 15 secretion of any one of them in large quantities can occa- sionally lead to exhaustion of the beta cells of the islets of Langerhans and thereby increase the risk for development 10 of diabetes mellitus. Indeed, diabetes often occurs in peo- ple who receive high pharmacological maintenance doses 5 of some of these hormones. Diabetes is particularly com- mon in giants or in acromegalic people who have tumors X 0 that secrete growth hormone, as well as in people whose 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 adrenal glands secrete excess glucocorticoids. Plasma glucose concentration The pancreas islets are richly innervated with sympathet- (mg/100 ml) ic and parasympathetic nerves. Stimulation of the parasym- Figure 79- 9. Approximate insulin secretion at different plasma glu- pathetic nerves to the pancreas can increase insulin secre- cose levels. tion during hyperglycemic conditions, whereas sympathetic nerve stimulation may increase glucagon secretion and de- crease insulin secretion during hypoglycemia. Glucose con- Other Factors That Stimulate Insulin Secretion centrations are believed to be detected by specialized neu- rons of the hypothalamus and brain stem, as well as by Amino Acids. Some of the amino acids have an effect glucose- sensing cells in peripheral locations such as the liver. similar to excess blood glucose in stimulating insulin secre- tion. The most potent of these amino acids are arginine and lysine. This effect differs from glucose stimulation of insulin THE ROLE OF INSULIN (AND OTHER secretion in the following way: Amino acids administered HORMONES) IN “SWITCHING” BETWEEN in the absence of a rise in blood glucose cause only a small CARBOHYDRATE AND LIPID METABOLISM increase in insulin secretion. However, when administered at the same time that the blood glucose concentration is el- From the preceding discussions, it should be clear that evated, the glucose- induced secretion of insulin may be as insulin promotes utilization of
