Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that the blood glucose concentration is el- From the preceding discussions, it should be clear that evated, the glucose- induced secretion of insulin may be as insulin promotes utilization of carbohydrates for energy much as doubled in the presence of the excess amino acids. and depresses utilization of fats. Conversely, lack of insu- Thus, amino acids strongly potentiate the glucose stimulus lin causes fat utilization mainly to the exclusion of glucose for insulin secretion. The stimulation of insulin secretion by amino acids is utilization, except by brain tissue. Furthermore, the sig- important because the insulin in turn promotes transport nal that controls this switching mechanism is principally of amino acids into the tissue cells, as well as the intracel- the blood glucose concentration. When glucose concen- lular formation of protein. That is, insulin is important for tration is low, insulin secretion is suppressed, and fat is proper utilization of excess amino acids in the same way used almost exclusively for energy everywhere except in that it is important for utilization of carbohydrates. the brain. When the glucose concentration is high, insulin Gastrointestinal Hormones. A mixture of several secretion is stimulated, and carbohydrate is used instead important gastrointestinal hormones—gastrin, secre- of fat. The excess blood glucose is stored in the form of tin, cholecystokinin, glucagonlike peptide–1 (GLP- 1), and liver glycogen, liver fat, and muscle glycogen. Therefore, glucose- dependent insulinotropic peptide (GIP)—can cause one of the most important functional roles of insulin in moderate increases in insulin secretion. Two of these hor- the body is to control which of these two foods will be mones, GLP- 1 and GIP, appear to be the most potent and used by the cells for energy from moment to moment. are often called incretins because they enhance the rate of insulin release from the pancreatic beta cells in response to At least four other known hormones also play impor- an increase in plasma glucose. They also inhibit glucagon tant roles in this switching mechanism— growth hormone secretion from the alpha cells of the islets of Langerhans. from the anterior pituitary gland, cortisol from the adrenal These hormones are released in the gastrointestinal cortex, epinephrine from the adrenal medulla, and gluca- tract after a person eats a meal. They then cause an “antici- gon from the alpha cells of the islets of Langerhans in the patory” increase in blood insulin in preparation for the glu- pancreas.
