Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a meal. They then cause an “antici- gon from the alpha cells of the islets of Langerhans in the patory” increase in blood insulin in preparation for the glu- pancreas. Glucagon is discussed in the next section of this cose and amino acids to be absorbed from the meal. These chapter. Both growth hormone and cortisol are secreted gastrointestinal hormones generally act the same way as in response to hypoglycemia, and both inhibit cellular uti- amino acids to increase the sensitivity of insulin response lization of glucose while promoting fat utilization. How- to increased blood glucose, almost doubling the rate of in- ever, the effects of both of these hormones develop slowly, sulin secretion as the blood glucose level rises. As discussed usually requiring many hours for maximal expression. later in the chapter, several drugs have been developed to mimic or enhance the actions of incretins for treatment of Epinephrine is especially important in increasing diabetes mellitus. plasma glucose concentration during periods of stress Other Hormones and the Autonomic Nervous System. when the sympathetic nervous system is excited. How- Other hormones that either directly increase insulin secre- ever, epinephrine acts differently from the other hor- tion or potentiate the glucose stimulus for insulin secre- mones in that it increases plasma fatty acid concentration tion include glucagon, growth hormone, cortisol, and, to a at the same time. The reasons for these effects are as 981 noiterces nilusnI )lamron(cid:30)(cid:31)( UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction follows: (1) epinephrine has the potent effect of causing This sequence of events is exceedingly important for glycogenolysis in the liver, thus releasing large quantities several reasons. First, it is one of the most thoroughly stud- of glucose into the blood within minutes, and (2) it also ied of all the second messenger functions of cyclic adenosine has a direct lipolytic effect on the adipose cells because monophosphate (cAMP). Second, it demonstrates a cas- it activates adipose tissue hormone- sensitive lipase, thus cade system in which each succeeding product is produced greatly enhancing blood concentration of fatty acids as in greater quantity than the preceding product. Therefore, well. Quantitatively, the enhancement of fatty acids is far it represents a potent amplifying mechanism. This type greater than the enhancement of blood glucose. There- of amplifying mechanism is widely used throughout the fore, epinephrine especially increases utilization of fat in body for controlling many, if not most, cellular
