Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the enhancement of blood glucose. There- of amplifying mechanism is widely used throughout the fore, epinephrine especially increases utilization of fat in body for controlling many, if not most, cellular metabolic such stressful states as exercise, circulatory shock, and systems, often causing as much as a millionfold amplifica- anxiety. tion in response. This mechanism explains how only a few micrograms of glucagon can cause the blood glucose level to GLUCAGON AND ITS FUNCTIONS double or increase even more within a few minutes. Infusion of glucagon for about 4 hours can cause such Glucagon, a hormone secreted by the alpha cells of the intensive liver glycogenolysis that all the liver stores of islets of Langerhans when blood glucose concentration glycogen become depleted. falls, has several functions that are diametrically opposed Glucagon Increases Gluconeogenesis to those of insulin. The most important of these functions is to increase the blood glucose concentration, an effect Even after all the glycogen in the liver has been exhausted that is opposite to that of insulin. under the influence of glucagon, continued infusion of Like insulin, glucagon is a large polypeptide. It has a this hormone still causes continued hyperglycemia. This molecular weight of 3485 and is composed of a chain of hyperglycemia results from the effect of glucagon to 29 amino acids. Upon injection of purified glucagon into increase the rate of amino acid uptake by the liver cells an animal, a profound hyperglycemic effect occurs. Only and then the conversion of many of the amino acids to 1 μg/kg of glucagon can elevate the blood glucose con- glucose by gluconeogenesis. This effect is achieved by centration approximately 20 mg/100 ml of blood (a 25% activating multiple enzymes that are required for amino increase) in about 20 minutes. For this reason, glucagon is acid transport and gluconeogenesis, especially activation also called the hyperglycemic hormone. of the enzyme system for converting pyruvate to phos- phoenolpyruvate, a rate- limiting step in gluconeogenesis. EFFECTS ON GLUCOSE METABOLISM Other Effects of Glucagon The major effects of glucagon on glucose metabolism Most other effects of glucagon occur only when its con- are (1) breakdown of liver glycogen (glycogenolysis) and centration rises well above the maximum normally found (2) increased gluconeogenesis in the liver. Both of these in the blood. Perhaps the most important effect is that glu- effects greatly enhance the availability of glucose to the cagon activates adipose cell lipase,
