Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the liver. Both of these in the blood. Perhaps the most important effect is that glu- effects greatly enhance the availability of glucose to the cagon activates adipose cell lipase, making increased quan- other organs of the body. tities of fatty acids available to the energy systems of the body. Glucagon also inhibits storage of triglycerides in the Glucagon Causes Glycogenolysis and liver, which prevents the liver from removing fatty acids Increased Blood Glucose Concentration from the blood; this also helps make additional amounts of The most dramatic effect of glucagon is its ability to cause fatty acids available for the other tissues of the body. glycogenolysis in the liver, which in turn increases the Glucagon in high concentrations also (1) enhances the blood glucose concentration within minutes. It performs strength of the heart; (2) increases blood flow in some tis- this function through the following complex cascade of sues, especially the kidneys; (3) enhances bile secretion; events: and (4) inhibits gastric acid secretion. These effects of glu- 1. Glucagon activates adenylyl cyclase in the hepatic cagon are probably of much less importance in the normal cell membrane, function of the body compared with its effects on glucose. 2. Which causes the formation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate, REGULATION OF GLUCAGON SECRETION 3. Which activates protein kinase regulator protein, 4. Which activates protein kinase, Increased Blood Glucose Inhibits Glucagon Secretion. 5. Which activates phosphorylase b kinase, Blood glucose concentration is by far the most potent 6. Which converts phosphorylase b into phosphorylase factor that controls glucagon secretion. Note specifically, a, however, that the effect of blood glucose concentration on 7. Which promotes the degradation of glycogen into glucagon secretion is in exactly the opposite direction from glucose- 1- phosphate, the effect of glucose on insulin secretion. 8. Which is then dephosphorylated, and the glucose is This is demonstrated in Figure 79- 10, which shows released from the liver cells. that a decrease in the blood glucose concentration from 982 Chapter 79 Insulin, Glucagon, and Diabetes Mellitus 4 In turn, somatostatin has multiple inhibitory effects, as follows: 3 1. Somatostatin acts locally within the islets of Langer- hans themselves to depress secretion of both insulin and glucagon. 2 2. Somatostatin decreases motility of the stomach, duode- num, and gallbladder. 1 3. Somatostatin decreases both secretion and absorption in the gastrointestinal tract. 0 In putting all this information together, it has been sug-
