Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the stomach, duode- num, and gallbladder. 1 3. Somatostatin decreases both secretion and absorption in the gastrointestinal tract. 0 In putting all this information together, it has been sug- 60 80 100 120 gested that the principal role of somatostatin is to extend Blood glucose the period over which the food nutrients are assimilated (mg/100 ml) into the blood. At the same time, the effect of somatostatin Figure 79- 10. The approximate plasma glucagon concentration at in depressing insulin and glucagon secretion decreases uti- different blood glucose levels. lization of the absorbed nutrients by the tissues, thus pre- venting rapid exhaustion of the food and therefore making it available over a longer period. its normal fasting level of about 90 mg/100 ml of blood Somatostatin is also the same chemical substance as down to hypoglycemic levels can increase the plasma con- growth hormone inhibitory hormone, which is secreted in centration of glucagon severalfold. Conversely, increasing the hypothalamus and suppresses secretion of growth hor- blood glucose to hyperglycemic levels decreases plasma mone by the anterior pituitary gland. glucagon concentration. Thus, in hypoglycemia, glucagon is secreted in large amounts; it then greatly increases the output of glucose from the liver and thereby serves the SUMMARY OF BLOOD GLUCOSE important function of correcting the hypoglycemia. REGULATION Increased Blood Amino Acids Stimulate Secretion The blood glucose concentration is narrowly controlled of Glucagon. High concentrations of amino acids, such normally, usually between 80 and 90 mg/100 ml of blood as those that occur in the blood after a meal contain- in the fasting person each morning before breakfast. This ing protein (especially the amino acids alanine and argi- concentration increases to 120 to 140 mg/100 ml during nine), stimulate secretion of glucagon. This is the same the first hour or so after a meal, but the feedback systems effect that amino acids have in stimulating insulin se- for controlling blood glucose rapidly return glucose con- cretion. Thus, in this instance, the glucagon and insulin centration back to the control level, usually within 2 hours responses are not opposites. The importance of amino after the last absorption of carbohydrates. Conversely, in acid stimulation of glucagon secretion is that the gluca- a state of starvation, the gluconeogenesis function of the gon then promotes rapid conversion of the amino acids liver provides the glucose required to maintain the fasting to glucose, thus making even more glucose available
