Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


gluconeogenesis function of the gon then promotes rapid conversion of the amino acids liver provides the glucose required to maintain the fasting to glucose, thus making even more glucose available to blood glucose level. the tissues. The mechanisms for achieving this high degree of con- Exercise Stimulates Secretion of Glucagon. During trol have been presented in this chapter and may be sum- exhaustive exercise, blood glucagon concentration often marized as follows: increases fourfold to fivefold. The cause of this increase is 1. The liver functions as an important blood glucose not well understood because the blood glucose concen- buffer system. That is, when blood glucose rises to tration does not necessarily fall. A beneficial effect of the a high concentration after a meal and insulin secre- glucagon is that it prevents a decrease in blood glucose. tion also increases, as much as two-thirds of the One of the factors that might increase glucagon secre- glucose absorbed from the gut is rapidly stored as tion during exercise is increased circulating amino acids. glycogen in the liver. Then, during the succeeding Other factors, such as β- adrenergic stimulation of the hours, when blood glucose concentration and insu- islets of Langerhans, may also play a role. lin secretion fall, the liver releases the glucose back into the blood. In this way, the liver decreases fluc- tuations in blood glucose concentration to about Somatostatin Inhibits Glucagon and Insulin Secretion one-third of what they would be otherwise. In fact, The delta cells of the islets of Langerhans secrete the hor- in patients with severe liver disease, it becomes mone somatostatin, a 14–amino acid polypeptide that has almost impossible to maintain a narrow range of an extremely short half- life of only 3 minutes in the circu- blood glucose concentration. lating blood. Almost all factors related to ingestion of food 2. Both insulin and glucagon function as important stimulate somatostatin secretion. These factors include feedback control systems for maintaining a normal (1) increased blood glucose, (2) increased amino acids, (3) increased fatty acids, and (4) increased concentrations of blood glucose concentration. When the glucose con- several of the gastrointestinal hormones released from the centration rises too high, increased insulin secre- upper gastrointestinal tract in response to food intake. tion causes blood glucose concentration to decrease 983 nogaculg amsalP )lamron(cid:30)(cid:31)( UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction toward normal. Conversely, a decrease in blood Diabetes Mellitus glucose
