Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


food intake. tion causes blood glucose concentration to decrease 983 nogaculg amsalP )lamron(cid:30)(cid:31)( UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction toward normal. Conversely, a decrease in blood Diabetes Mellitus glucose stimulates glucagon secretion; the glucagon Diabetes mellitus is a syndrome of impaired carbohydrate, then functions in the opposite direction to increase fat, and protein metabolism caused by either lack of insulin glucose toward normal. Under most normal con- secretion or decreased sensitivity of the tissues to insulin. ditions, the insulin feedback mechanism is more There are two general types of diabetes mellitus: important than the glucagon mechanism, but in in- 1. Type 1 diabetes, also called insulin- dependent diabetes stances of starvation or excessive utilization of glu- mellitus, is caused by lack of insulin secretion. 2. Type 2 diabetes, also called non–insulin- dependent dia- cose during exercise and other stressful situations, betes mellitus, is initially caused by decreased sensitivity the glucagon mechanism also becomes valuable. of target tissues to the metabolic effect of insulin. This 3. In severe hypoglycemia, a direct effect of low blood reduced sensitivity to insulin is often called insulin re- glucose on the hypothalamus also stimulates the sistance. sympathetic nervous system. The epinephrine se- In both types of diabetes mellitus, metabolism of all the creted by the adrenal glands further increases re- main foodstuffs is altered. The basic effect of insulin de- lease of glucose from the liver, which also helps pro- ficiency or insulin resistance on glucose metabolism is to tect against severe hypoglycemia. prevent efficient uptake and utilization of glucose by most 4. Finally, over a period of hours and days, both growth cells of the body, except those of the brain. As a result, hormone and cortisol are secreted in response to blood glucose concentration increases, cell utilization of prolonged hypoglycemia. They both decrease the glucose falls increasingly lower, and utilization of fats and proteins increases. rate of glucose utilization by most cells of the body, converting instead to greater fat utilization. This Type 1 Diabetes—Deficiency of Insulin Production by process, too, helps return blood glucose concentra- Beta Cells of the Pancreas tion toward normal. Injury to the beta cells of the pancreas or diseases that im- pair insulin production can lead to type 1 diabetes. Viral Importance of Blood Glucose Regulation. One might infections or autoimmune disorders may be involved in the ask, “Why is it so important to maintain a constant
