Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


type 1 diabetes. Viral Importance of Blood Glucose Regulation. One might infections or autoimmune disorders may be involved in the ask, “Why is it so important to maintain a constant blood destruction of beta cells in many patients with type 1 dia- glucose concentration, particularly because most tissues betes, although heredity also plays a major role in deter- can shift to utilization of fats and proteins for energy in mining the susceptibility of the beta cells to destruction by the absence of glucose?” The answer is that glucose is the these insults. In some cases, persons may have a hereditary only nutrient that normally can be used by the brain, ret- tendency for beta cell degeneration even without viral in- ina, and germinal epithelium of the gonads in sufficient fections or autoimmune disorders. quantities to supply them optimally with their required The usual onset of type 1 diabetes occurs at about 14 energy. Therefore, it is important to maintain blood glu- years of age in the United States, and for this reason it is often called juvenile diabetes mellitus. However, type 1 dia- cose concentration at a level sufficient to provide this nec- betes can occur at any age, including adulthood, following essary nutrition. disorders that lead to the destruction of pancreatic beta Most of the glucose formed by gluconeogenesis dur- cells. Type 1 diabetes may develop abruptly, over a period ing the interdigestive period is used for metabolism in the of a few days or weeks, with three principal sequelae: (1) brain. Indeed, it is important that the pancreas not secrete increased blood glucose levels, (2) increased utilization of insulin during this time; otherwise, the scant supplies of fats for energy and for formation of cholesterol by the liver, glucose that are available would all go into the muscles and (3) depletion of the body’s proteins. Approximately and other peripheral tissues, leaving the brain without a 5% to 10% of people with diabetes mellitus have the type 1 nutritive source. form of the disease. Blood Glucose Concentration Rises to High Levels in It is also important that blood glucose concentration not rise too high for several reasons: Diabetes Mellitus. Lack of insulin decreases the efficiency 1. Glucose can exert a large amount of osmotic pres- of peripheral glucose utilization and augments glucose pro- duction, raising plasma glucose to 300 to 1200 mg/100 ml. sure in the extracellular fluid, and
