Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a large amount of osmotic pres- of peripheral glucose utilization and augments glucose pro- duction, raising plasma glucose to 300 to 1200 mg/100 ml. sure in the extracellular fluid, and a rise in glucose The increased plasma glucose then has multiple adverse ef- concentration to excessive values can cause consid- fects throughout the body. erable cellular dehydration. Increased Blood Glucose Causes Loss of Glucose in the 2. An excessively high level of blood glucose concen- Urine. High levels of blood glucose cause more glucose to tration causes loss of glucose in the urine. filter into the renal tubules than can be reabsorbed, and the 3. Loss of glucose in the urine also causes osmotic diu- excess glucose spills into the urine as explained in Chapter 28. resis by the kidneys, which can deplete the body of This spillage normally occurs when the blood glucose con- its fluids and electrolytes. centration rises above about 200 mg/100 ml, a level that is 4. Long- term increases in blood glucose may cause called the blood “threshold” for the appearance of glucose damage to many tissues, especially to blood vessels. in the urine. When the blood glucose level rises to 300 to Vascular injury associated with uncontrolled diabe- 500 mg/100 ml—common values in people with severe un- tes mellitus leads to increased risk for heart attack, treated diabetes—100 or more grams of glucose can be lost into the urine each day. stroke, end- stage renal disease, and blindness. 984 Chapter 79 Insulin, Glucagon, and Diabetes Mellitus Increased Blood Glucose Causes Dehydration. Extreme- 100 mg/dl ly high levels of blood glucose (sometimes as high as 8 to 10 Glucose 400+ mg/dl times normal in severe untreated diabetes) can cause severe cell dehydration throughout the body. This dehydration oc- 1 mEq curs partly because glucose does not diffuse easily through Keto acids 30 mEq the pores of the cell membrane, and the increased osmotic pressure in the extracellular fluids causes osmotic transfer of 155 mEq water out of the cells. Total cations 130 mEq In addition to the direct cellular dehydrating effect of excessive glucose, loss of glucose in the urine causes osmot- 27 mEq HCO – ic diuresis—that is, the osmotic effect of glucose in the renal 3 5 mEq tubules greatly decreases tubular reabsorption of fluid. The overall effect is massive loss of fluid in the urine, causing 103 mEq Cl– dehydration of the
