Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the renal 3 5 mEq tubules greatly decreases tubular reabsorption of fluid. The overall effect is massive loss of fluid in the urine, causing 103 mEq Cl– dehydration of the extracellular fluid, which in turn causes 90 mEq compensatory dehydration of the intracellular fluid. Thus, polyuria (excessive urine excretion), intracellular and ex- 7.4 pH tracellular dehydration, and increased thirst are classic 6.9 symptoms of diabetes. Chronic High Glucose Concentration Causes Tissue 180 mg/dl Cholesterol Injury. When blood glucose is poorly controlled over long 360 mg/dl periods in diabetes mellitus, blood vessels in multiple tis- Figure 79- 11. Changes in blood constituents in diabetic coma, show- sues throughout the body begin to function abnormally ing normal values (blue bars) and diabetic coma values (red bars). and undergo structural changes that result in inadequate blood supply to the tissues. This situation in turn leads to increased risk for heart attack, stroke, end- stage kidney disease, retinopathy and blindness, and ischemia and gan- Although extreme acidosis occurs only in the most se- grene of the limbs. vere cases of uncontrolled diabetes, when the pH of the Chronic high glucose concentration also causes damage blood falls below about 7.0, acidotic coma and death can to many other tissues. For example, peripheral neuropathy, occur within hours. The overall changes in blood electro- which is abnormal function of peripheral nerves, and auto- lytes as a result of severe diabetic acidosis are shown in nomic nervous system dysfunction are frequent complica- Figure 79- 11. tions of chronic, uncontrolled diabetes mellitus. These ab- Excess fat utilization in the liver over a long time causes normalities can result in impaired cardiovascular reflexes, large amounts of cholesterol in the circulating blood and impaired bladder control, decreased sensation in the ex- increased deposition of cholesterol in the arterial walls. tremities, and other symptoms of peripheral nerve damage. This situation leads to severe arteriosclerosis and other vas- The precise mechanisms that cause tissue injury in dia- cular lesions, as discussed earlier. betes are not well understood but probably involve multi- Diabetes Causes Depletion of the Body’s Proteins. ple effects of high glucose concentrations and other meta- Failure to use glucose for energy leads to increased utiliza- bolic abnormalities on proteins of endothelial and vascular tion and decreased storage of proteins and fat. Therefore, a smooth muscle cells, as well as other tissues. In addition, person with severe untreated diabetes mellitus experiences hypertension,
