Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and vascular tion and decreased storage of proteins and fat. Therefore, a smooth muscle cells, as well as other tissues. In addition, person with severe untreated diabetes mellitus experiences hypertension, secondary to renal injury, and atherosclero- rapid weight loss and asthenia (lack of energy), despite eat- sis, secondary to abnormal lipid metabolism, often develop ing large amounts of food (polyphagia). Without treatment, in patients with diabetes and amplify the tissue damage these metabolic abnormalities can cause severe wasting of caused by elevated glucose levels. the body tissues and death within a few weeks. Diabetes Mellitus Causes Increased Utilization of Fats Treatment of Type 1 Diabetes. Effective treatment of and Metabolic Acidosis. The shift from carbohydrate to fat type 1 diabetes mellitus requires administration of enough metabolism in diabetes increases the release of keto acids, insulin so that the patient will have carbohydrate, fat, and such as acetoacetic acid and β- hydroxybutyric acid, into protein metabolism that is as normal as possible. Insulin is the plasma more rapidly than they can be taken up and available in several forms. “Regular” insulin has a duration oxidized by the tissue cells. As a result, metabolic acidosis of action that lasts from 3 to 8 hours, whereas other forms develops from the excess keto acids, which, in association of insulin (precipitated with zinc or with various protein with dehydration, can cause severe acidosis. This scenario derivatives) are absorbed slowly from the injection site and leads rapidly to diabetic coma and death unless the patient therefore have effects that last as long as 10 to 48 hours. Or- is treated immediately with large amounts of insulin. dinarily, a patient with severe type 1 diabetes is given a sin- All the usual physiological compensations that occur in gle dose of one of the longer-a cting insulins each day to in- metabolic acidosis take place in diabetic acidosis, as dis- crease overall carbohydrate metabolism throughout the day. cussed in Chapter 31. They include rapid and deep breath- Additional quantities of regular insulin are then given dur- ing, which causes increased expiration of carbon dioxide; ing the day at the times when the blood glucose level tends this mechanism buffers the acidosis but also depletes extra- to rise too high, such as at mealtimes. Thus, each patient is cellular fluid bicarbonate stores. The kidneys compensate provided with an individualized pattern of treatment. by decreasing bicarbonate excretion and generating
