Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


too high, such as at mealtimes. Thus, each patient is cellular fluid bicarbonate stores. The kidneys compensate provided with an individualized pattern of treatment. by decreasing bicarbonate excretion and generating new In the past, the insulin used for treatment was derived bicarbonate that is added back to the extracellular fluid. from animal pancreata. However, human insulin produced 985 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction by the recombinant DNA process has become more widely TABLE 79- 2 Some Causes of Insulin Resistance used because immunity and sensitization against animal • Obesity/overweight (especially excess visceral adiposity) insulin develops in some patients, thus limiting its effec- • Excess glucocorticoids (Cushing’s syndrome or steroid tiveness. therapy) Type 2 Diabetes—Resistance to the Metabolic Effects • Excess growth hormone (acromegaly) of Insulin • Pregnancy, gestational diabetes • Polycystic ovary disease Type 2 diabetes is far more common than type 1 diabetes, • Lipodystrophy (acquired or genetic; associated with lipid accounting for about 90% to 95% of all cases of diabetes accumulation in liver) mellitus. In most cases, the onset of type 2 diabetes oc- • Autoantibodies to the insulin receptor curs after age 30 years, often between the ages of 50 and • Mutations of insulin receptor 60 years, and the disease develops gradually. Therefore, • Mutations of the peroxisome proliferators’ activator this syndrome is often referred to as adult- onset diabetes. receptor γ (PPARγ) In recent years, however, there has been a steady increase • Mutations that cause genetic obesity (e.g., melanocortin in the number of younger individuals, some younger than receptor mutations) • Hemochromatosis (a hereditary disease that causes tissue 20 years old, with type 2 diabetes. This trend appears to be iron accumulation) related mainly to the increasing prevalence of obesity, the most important risk factor for type 2 diabetes in children and adults. Other Factors That Can Cause Insulin Resistance and Obesity, Insulin Resistance, and “Metabolic Syndrome” Usually Precede Development of Type 2 Diabetes. Type 2 Type 2 Diabetes. Although most patients with type 2 dia- betes are overweight or have substantial accumulation of diabetes, in contrast to type 1 diabetes, is associated with visceral fat, severe insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes increased plasma insulin concentration. The hyperinsuline- can also occur as a result of other acquired or genetic con- mia occurs as a compensatory response by the pancreatic ditions that impair insulin signaling in peripheral tissues beta cells for
