Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


occur as a result of other acquired or genetic con- mia occurs as a compensatory response by the pancreatic ditions that impair insulin signaling in peripheral tissues beta cells for insulin resistance, a diminished sensitivity of (Table 79- 2). target tissues to the metabolic effects of insulin. The de- Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), for example, is as- crease in insulin sensitivity impairs carbohydrate utiliza- sociated with marked increases in ovarian androgen pro- tion and storage, raising blood glucose and stimulating a duction and insulin resistance. PCOS is one of the most compensatory increase in insulin secretion. common endocrine disorders in women, affecting ap- The development of insulin resistance and impaired proximately 6% of all women during their reproductive life. glucose metabolism is usually a gradual process, beginning Although the pathogenesis of PCOS remains uncertain, with excess weight gain and obesity. Some studies suggest insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia are found in ap- that obese subjects have fewer insulin receptors, especially proximately 80% of affected women. The long- term con- in the skeletal muscle, liver, and adipose tissue, than do lean sequences include increased risk for diabetes mellitus, in- subjects. However, most of the insulin resistance appears to creased blood lipids, and cardiovascular disease. be caused by abnormalities of the signaling pathways that Excess formation of glucocorticoids (Cushing’s syndrome) link receptor activation with multiple cellular effects. Im- or excess formation of growth hormone (acromegaly) also paired insulin signaling may be closely related to toxic ef- decreases the sensitivity of various tissues to the metabolic fects of lipid accumulation in tissues such as skeletal muscle effects of insulin and can lead to development of diabetes and liver as a result of excess weight gain. mellitus. Genetic causes of obesity and insulin resistance, Insulin resistance is part of a cascade of disorders that if severe enough, also can lead to type 2 diabetes and many is often called the “metabolic syndrome.” Some of the fea- other features of the metabolic syndrome, including car- tures of the metabolic syndrome include (1) obesity, espe- diovascular disease. cially accumulation of abdominal fat; (2) insulin resistance; Development of Type 2 Diabetes During Prolonged In- (3) fasting hyperglycemia; (4) lipid abnormalities, such as sulin Resistance. With prolonged and severe insulin resist- increased blood triglycerides and decreased blood high- ance, even the increased levels of insulin are not sufficient density lipoprotein- cholesterol; and (5) hypertension. All of to maintain normal
