Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


insulin resist- increased blood triglycerides and decreased blood high- ance, even the increased levels of insulin are not sufficient density lipoprotein- cholesterol; and (5) hypertension. All of to maintain normal glucose regulation. As a result, moder- the features of the metabolic syndrome are closely related ate hyperglycemia occurs after ingestion of carbohydrates to accumulation of excess adipose tissue in the abdominal in the early stages of the disease. cavity around the visceral organs. In the later stages of type 2 diabetes, the pancreatic beta The role of insulin resistance in contributing to some cells become “exhausted” or damaged and are unable to of the components of the metabolic syndrome is uncer- produce enough insulin to prevent more severe hypergly- tain, although it is clear that insulin resistance is the pri- cemia, especially after the person ingests a carbohydrate- mary cause of increased blood glucose concentration. A rich meal. major adverse consequence of the metabolic syndrome is Clinically significant diabetes mellitus may not develop cardiovascular disease, including atherosclerosis and in- in some obese people, even though they have marked insu- jury to various organs throughout the body. Several of the lin resistance and greater than normal increases in blood metabolic abnormalities associated with the syndrome glucose after a meal; apparently, the pancreas in these peo- increase the risk for cardiovascular disease, and insulin ple produces enough insulin to prevent severe abnormali- resistance predisposes to the development of type 2 dia- ties of glucose metabolism. In other obese people, however, betes mellitus, which is also a major cause of cardiovas- the pancreas gradually becomes exhausted from secreting cular disease. 986 Chapter 79 Insulin, Glucagon, and Diabetes Mellitus large amounts of insulin or damaged by factors associated TABLE 79- 3 Clinical Characteristics of Patients With with lipid accumulation in the pancreas, and full-b lown Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus diabetes mellitus occurs. Some studies suggest that genetic Feature Type 1 Type 2 factors play an important role in determining whether an Age at onset Usually <20 yr Usually >30 yr individual’s pancreas can sustain the high output of insulin over many years that is necessary to avoid the severe abnor- Body mass Low (wasted) Visceral obesity malities of glucose metabolism in type 2 diabetes. to normal Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes by Lifestyle Modifica- Plasma insulin Low or absent Normal to high tions, Increasing Insulin Sensitivity, and Enhancing Insulin initially Secretion.
