Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


type 2 diabetes. to normal Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes by Lifestyle Modifica- Plasma insulin Low or absent Normal to high tions, Increasing Insulin Sensitivity, and Enhancing Insulin initially Secretion. In many cases, type 2 diabetes can be effectively Plasma glucagon High, can be High, resistant to treated, at least in the early stages, with lifestyle modifica- suppressed suppression tions aimed at increasing physical activity, caloric restric- Plasma glucose Increased Increased tion, and weight reduction, and no exogenous adminis- Insulin sensitivity Normal Reduced tration of insulin is required. Drugs that increase insulin sensitivity, such as thiazolidinediones, drugs that suppress Therapy Insulin Weight loss, liver glucose production, such as metformin, or drugs that bariatric surgery, cause additional release of insulin by the pancreas, such thiazolidinediones, metformin, as sulfonylureas, may also be used. However, in the later sulfonylureas, stages of type 2 diabetes, insulin administration is usually SGLT2 inhibitors, required to control plasma glucose levels. insulin Incretin drugs that mimic the actions of the GLP- 1 have SGLT2, Sodium glucose co- transporter 2. been developed for treatment of type 2 diabetes. These drugs enhance insulin secretion and are intended to be used in conjunction with other antidiabetic drugs. Another bolic surgery” because many patients who undergo these therapeutic approach is to inhibit the enzyme dipeptidyl operations experience complete remission of diabetes and peptidase 4 (DPP- 4), which inactivates GLP-1 and GIP. By no longer require antidiabetic drugs. Improvements of blood blocking the actions of DPP- 4, the incretin effects of GLP-1 glucose, lipids and blood pressure often occur within a few and GIP can be prolonged, leading to increased insulin se- days or weeks after surgery, suggesting that the mechanisms cretion and improved control of blood glucose levels. for these cardiovascular and metabolic benefits may extend Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes by Inhibition of Sodium- beyond weight loss and reductions in adiposity. However, the Glucose Transporter 2 (SGLT2). As discussed in Chapter 28, physiological factors that contribute to the favorable meta- approximately 90% of the glucose filtered by renal glo- bolic effects of these surgical procedures are still unclear. merular capillaries is reabsorbed from the proximal tubules by the sodium glucose co- transporter 2 (SGLT2). Several Physiology of Diagnosis of Diabetes Mellitus medications, called gliflozins, have been developed to treat type 2 diabetes by inhibiting SGLT2. These SGLT2 inhibi- Table 79- 3 compares some of the clinical features of type 1 and
