Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


medications, called gliflozins, have been developed to treat type 2 diabetes by inhibiting SGLT2. These SGLT2 inhibi- Table 79- 3 compares some of the clinical features of type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus. The usual methods for diag- tors greatly reduce renal glucose reabsorption, causing nosing diabetes are based on various chemical tests of the large amounts of glucose to be excreted in the urine and urine and the blood. reducing the blood glucose concentration. SGLT2 inhibi- tors are often used in combination with other drugs that Urinary Glucose. Simple office tests or more complicat- enhance insulin sensitivity or stimulate insulin secretion ed quantitative laboratory tests may be used to determine and have been shown in clinical trials to provide significant the quantity of glucose excreted in the urine. In general, a protection against cardiovascular and kidney disease in pa- nondiabetic person excretes undetectable amounts of glu- tients with diabetes. cose, whereas a person with diabetes loses glucose in small In addition to increasing glucose excretion, SGLT2 in- to large amounts, in proportion to the severity of the dis- hibitors also cause marked diuresis due to the osmotic ef- ease and the intake of carbohydrates. fect of the glucose remaining in the renal tubules. The diu- Fasting Blood Glucose and Insulin Concentrations. resis can be beneficial for causing small reductions in blood Fasting blood glucose concentration in the early morning pressure in patients with type 2 diabetes who often suffer is normally 80 to 90 mg/100 ml, and 115 mg/100 ml is con- from hypertension, but may also increase the risk for dehy- sidered to be the upper limit of normal. A fasting blood dration and hypotension in patients who are already taking glucose level above this value often indicates diabetes mel- other diuretics and antihypertensive mediations. litus or at least marked insulin resistance and prediabetes. Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes With Surgery. In many In persons with type 1 diabetes, plasma insulin levels people who suffer from severe obesity and type 2 diabetes, are very low or undetectable during fasting and even af- treatment regimens focused on diet, exercise, and pharma- ter a meal. In persons with type 2 diabetes, plasma insu- cotherapy do not produce adequate reductions in adiposity lin concentration may be severalfold higher than normal and blood glucose. In these cases, various bariatric surgery and usually increases to a greater extent after ingestion of procedures
