Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in adiposity lin concentration may be severalfold higher than normal and blood glucose. In these cases, various bariatric surgery and usually increases to a greater extent after ingestion of procedures can be used to reduce fat mass and achieve im- a standard glucose load during a glucose tolerance test (see proved control of blood glucose. The two most widely used the next section). procedures, gastric bypass surgery and vertical sleeve gas- Glycated Hemoglobin. When blood glucose levels are trectomy (discussed in Chapter 72), are often called “meta- elevated for prolonged periods of time, glucose attaches to 987 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction diabetes, however, keto acids are usually not produced in 200 Diabetes excess amounts. However, when insulin resistance becomes 180 severe and there is greatly increased utilization of fats for energy, keto acids are then produced in persons with type 2 160 diabetes. 140 Relation of Treatment to Arteriosclerosis and Chronic 120 Kidney Disease. Mainly because of the hypertension and Normal high levels of circulating cholesterol and other lipids in 100 diabetic patients, atherosclerosis, arteriosclerosis, severe 80 coronary heart disease, chronic kidney disease, and mul- 0 1 2 3 4 5 tiple microcirculatory lesions develop far more easily than Hours in nondiabetic people. Indeed, persons who have poorly controlled diabetes throughout childhood are likely to die Figure 79- 12. Glucose tolerance curve in a normal person and in a person with diabetes. of heart disease in early adulthood. In the early days of diabetes treatment, the tendency hemoglobin in red blood cells to form glycated hemoglobin, was to severely reduce carbohydrates in the diet to mini- often called hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c). The longer hypergly- mize insulin requirements. This approach kept the blood cemia occurs, the more glucose binds to hemoglobin and glucose from reaching too high a level and attenuated the once hemoglobin is glycated, it remains that way for the life loss of glucose in the urine, but it did not prevent many of the cell. Therefore, buildup of HbA1c in a red blood cell of the abnormalities of fat metabolism. Consequently, the reflects the average glucose concentration to which the cell current tendency is to permit the patient to consume an has been exposed during its life- cycle. Because the average almost normal carbohydrate diet while administering lifespan of red blood cells is about 120 days and individual enough insulin to metabolize the carbohydrates. This
