Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


its life- cycle. Because the average almost normal carbohydrate diet while administering lifespan of red blood cells is about 120 days and individual enough insulin to metabolize the carbohydrates. This ap- cells have varying lifespans, the HbA1c test is used mainly proach decreases the rate of fat metabolism and depresses to assess average blood glucose concentrations for the pre- the high level of cholesterol in the blood. vious three months and can provide a diagnostic test for Because complications of diabetes such as atherosclero- diabetes mellitus or an assessment test of glycemic control sis, increased susceptibility to infection, diabetic retinopa- in people with diabetes. thy, cataracts, hypertension, and chronic renal disease are Glucose Tolerance Test. As demonstrated by the bottom closely associated with the levels of lipids and glucose in the blood, most physicians also prescribe lipid-l owering drugs curve in Figure 79- 12, called a “glucose tolerance curve,” to help prevent these disturbances. when a normal, fasting person ingests 1 gram of glucose per kilogram of body weight, the blood glucose level rises Insulinoma—Hyperinsulinism from about 90 mg/100 ml to 120 to 140 mg/100 ml and falls Although excessive insulin production occurs much more back to below normal in about 2 hours. rarely than does diabetes, it occasionally can be a conse- In a person with diabetes, the fasting blood glucose con- quence of an adenoma of an islet of Langerhans. About 10% centration is almost always above 115 mg/100 ml and often to 15% of these adenomas are malignant, and occasionally is above 140 mg/100 ml. In addition, results of the glucose metastases from the islets of Langerhans spread through- tolerance test are almost always abnormal. After ingestion out the body, causing tremendous production of insulin by of glucose, these people exhibit a much greater than nor- both the primary and metastatic cancers. Indeed, some of mal rise in blood glucose level, as demonstrated by the up- these patients have required more than 1000 grams of glu- per curve in Figure 79- 12, and the glucose level falls back cose every 24 hours to prevent hypoglycemia. to the control value only after 4 to 6 hours; furthermore, it Insulin Shock and Hypoglycemia. As already emphasized, fails to fall below the control level. The slow fall of this curve the central nervous system normally derives essentially all its and its failure to fall below the control level demonstrate energy
