Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


below the control level. The slow fall of this curve the central nervous system normally derives essentially all its and its failure to fall below the control level demonstrate energy from glucose metabolism, and insulin is not neces- that either (1) the normal increase in insulin secretion af- sary for this use of glucose. However, if high levels of insulin ter glucose ingestion does not occur, or (2) the person has cause blood glucose to fall to low levels, the metabolism of the decreased sensitivity to insulin. A diagnosis of diabetes central nervous system becomes depressed. Consequently, mellitus can usually be established on the basis of such a in patients with insulin- secreting tumors or in patients with curve, and type 1 and type 2 diabetes can be distinguished diabetes who administer too much insulin to themselves, the from each other by measurements of plasma insulin, with syndrome called insulin shock may occur as follows. plasma insulin being low or undetectable in type 1 diabetes As blood glucose level falls into the range of 50 to 70 and increased in type 2 diabetes. Acetone Breath. As pointed out in Chapter 69, small mg/100 ml, the central nervous system usually becomes excitable because this degree of hypoglycemia sensitizes quantities of acetoacetic acid in the blood, which increase neuronal activity. Sometimes various forms of hallucina- greatly in severe diabetes, are converted to acetone. Ac- tions result, but more often the patient simply experiences etone is volatile and is vaporized into the expired air. Con- extreme nervousness, trembles all over, and breaks out in a sequently, one can frequently make a diagnosis of type 1 sweat. As blood glucose level falls to 20 to 50 mg/100 ml, diabetes mellitus simply by smelling acetone on the breath clonic seizures and loss of consciousness are likely to occur. of a patient. Also, keto acids can be detected by chemical As the glucose level falls still lower, the seizures cease and means in the urine, and their quantitation aids in determin- only a state of coma remains. Indeed, when using simple ing the severity of the diabetes. In the early stages of type 2 clinical observation, it is sometimes difficult to distinguish 988 level esoculg doolB )lm 001/gm( Chapter 79 Insulin, Glucagon, and Diabetes Mellitus between diabetic coma as a result of acidosis caused by a Haeusler RA, McGraw TE, Accili D: Biochemical and cellular properties
