Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


are discussed together in this chapter. of the plasma and interstitial fluids (e.g., citrate and phos- phate) in such a manner that it is not ionized; and (3) OVERVIEW OF CALCIUM AND the remaining 50% of the calcium in plasma is diffusible PHOSPHATE REGULATION IN through the capillary membrane and ionized. EXTRACELLULAR FLUID AND PLASMA Thus, the plasma and interstitial fluids have a nor- mal calcium ion concentration of about 1.2 mmol/L (or Extracellular fluid calcium concentration is normally regu- 2.4 mEq/L, because it is a divalent ion), a level only one- lated precisely; it seldom rises or falls more than a few per- half the total plasma calcium concentration. This ionic cent from the normal value of about 9.4 mg/dl, which is calcium is the form that is important for most functions equivalent to 2.4 millimoles of calcium per liter. This precise of calcium in the body, including the effect of calcium on control is essential because calcium plays a key role in many the heart, the nervous system, and bone formation. physiological processes, including contraction of skeletal, INORGANIC PHOSPHATE IN THE cardiac, and smooth muscles, blood clotting, and transmis- EXTRACELLULAR FLUIDS sion of nerve impulses, to name just a few. Excitable cells such as neurons are sensitive to changes in calcium ion Inorganic phosphate in the plasma is mainly in two forms, concentrations, and increases above normal (hypercalce- HPO = and H PO −. The concentration of HPO = is about 4 2 4 4 mia) cause progressive depression of the nervous system; conversely, decreases in calcium concentration (hypocal- Calcium complexed to cemia) cause the nervous system to become more excited. anions 9% (0.2 mmol/L) An important feature of extracellular calcium regula- tion is that only about 0.1% of the total body calcium is in the extracellular fluid, about 1% is in the cells and its organelles, and the rest is stored in bones. Therefore, the bones can serve as large reservoirs, storing excess calcium Ionized calcium Protein-bound calcium and releasing calcium when extracellular fluid concentra- 50% 41% tion decreases. (1.2 mmol/L) (1.0 mmol/L) Approximately 85% of the body's phosphate is stored in bones, 14% to 15% is in the cells, and less than 1% is in the extracellular fluid. Although extracellular fluid phos- phate concentration is not nearly as well regulated as cal- cium concentration, phosphate serves several important Figure 80- 1. Distribution of ionized calcium (Ca2+),
