Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


extracellular fluid. Although extracellular fluid phos- phate concentration is not nearly as well regulated as cal- cium concentration, phosphate serves several important Figure 80- 1. Distribution of ionized calcium (Ca2+), diffusible but functions and is controlled by many of the same factors un- ionized calcium complexed to anions, and nondiffusible protein- that regulate calcium. bound calcium in blood plasma. 991 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction 1.05 mmol/L, and the concentration of H PO − is about 2 4 0.26 mmol/L. When the total quantity of phosphate in the extracellular fluid rises, so does the quantity of each of these two types of phosphate ions. Furthermore, when the pH of the extracellular fluid becomes more acidic, there is a relative increase in H PO − and a decrease in HPO =, 2 4 4 whereas the opposite occurs when the extracellular fluid becomes alkaline. These relations were presented in the discussion of acid- base balance in Chapter 31. Because it is difficult to determine chemically the exact quantities of HPO= and HPO− in the blood, ordinarily the 4 2 4 total quantity of phosphate is expressed in terms of milligrams of phosphorus per deciliter (100 milliliters) of blood. The aver- age total quantity of inorganic phosphorus represented by both phosphate ions is about 4 mg/dl, varying between nor- mal limits of 3 to 4 mg/dl in adults and 4 to 5 mg/dl in children. Figure 80- 2. Hypocalcemic tetany in the hand, called carpopedal spasm. NONBONE PHYSIOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF ALTERED CALCIUM AND PHOSPHATE CONCENTRATIONS IN THE BODY FLUIDS Hypercalcemia Depresses Nervous System and Muscle Activity. When calcium concentration in the body fluids Changing the level of phosphate in the extracellular fluid rises above normal, the nervous system becomes depressed from far below normal to two to three times normal does and reflex activities of the central nervous system are slug- not cause major immediate effects on the body. In con- gish. Also, increased calcium ion concentration decreases trast, even slight increases or decreases of calcium ion the QT interval of the heart and causes lack of appetite and in the extracellular fluid can cause extreme immediate constipation, probably because of depressed contractility physiological effects. In addition, chronic hypocalcemia of the muscle walls of the gastrointestinal tract. or hypophosphatemia greatly decreases bone mineraliza- These depressive effects begin to appear when the tion, as is explained later in the chapter. blood
