Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the muscle walls of the gastrointestinal tract. or hypophosphatemia greatly decreases bone mineraliza- These depressive effects begin to appear when the tion, as is explained later in the chapter. blood level of calcium rises above about 12 mg/dl, and they can become marked as the calcium level rises above Hypocalcemia Causes Nervous System Excitement 15 mg/dl. When the calcium concentration rises above and Tetany. When the extracellular fluid concentration about 17 mg/dl in the blood, calcium phosphate crystals of calcium ions falls below normal, the nervous system are likely to precipitate throughout the body; this con- becomes progressively more excitable because of in- dition is discussed later in connection with parathyroid creased neuronal membrane permeability to sodium ions, poisoning. allowing easy initiation of action potentials. At plasma calcium ion concentrations about 50% below normal, the ABSORPTION AND EXCRETION OF peripheral nerve fibers become so excitable that they be- CALCIUM AND PHOSPHATE gin to discharge spontaneously, initiating trains of nerve impulses that pass to the peripheral skeletal muscles to Intestinal Absorption and Fecal Excretion of Calcium elicit tetanic muscle contraction. Consequently, hypocal- and Phosphate. The usual rates of intake are approxi- cemia causes tetany. It also occasionally causes seizures mately 1000 mg/day each for calcium and phosphorus, because of its action of increasing excitability in the brain. about the amounts in 1 liter of milk. Normally, divalent Figure 80- 2 shows tetany in the hand, which usually cations such as calcium ions are poorly absorbed from occurs before tetany develops in most other parts of the the intestines. However, as discussed later, vitamin D pro- body. This is called carpopedal spasm. motes calcium absorption by the intestines, and about 35% Tetany ordinarily occurs when the blood concentra- (350 mg/day) of the ingested calcium is usually absorbed; tion of calcium falls from its normal level of 9.4 mg/dl the remaining calcium in the intestine is excreted in the to about 6 mg/dl, which is only 35% below the normal feces. An additional 250 mg/day of calcium enters the in- calcium concentration, and it is usually lethal at about testines via secreted gastrointestinal juices and sloughed 4 mg/dl. mucosal cells. Thus, about 90% (900 mg/day) of the daily In laboratory animals, extreme hypocalcemia can intake of calcium is excreted in the feces (Figure 80- 3). cause other effects that are seldom evident in patients, Intestinal absorption of phosphate occurs easily. such as marked
