Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


can intake of calcium is excreted in the feces (Figure 80- 3). cause other effects that are seldom evident in patients, Intestinal absorption of phosphate occurs easily. such as marked dilation of the heart, changes in cellu- Except for the portion of phosphate that is excreted in the lar enzyme activities, increased membrane permeability feces in combination with nonabsorbed calcium, almost in some cells (in addition to nerve cells), and impaired all the dietary phosphate is absorbed into the blood from blood clotting. the gut and later excreted in the urine. 992 Chapter 80 Parathyroid Hormone, Calcitonin, Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism, Vitamin D, Bone, and Teeth Calcium Cells intake (13,000 mg) Bone (1000 mg/day) (1,000,000 mg) Cartilage Absorption Deposition (350 mg/day) (500 mg/day) Cortical (compact) bone Extracellular fluid Epiphyseal line (1300 mg) Secretion Resorption Trabecular (250 mg/day) (500 mg/day) (spongy) bone Filtration Reabsorption (9980 mg/day) (9880 mg/day) Red Feces marrow (900 mg/day) Kidneys Urine Medullary (100 mg/day) cavity Figure 80- 3. Overview of calcium exchange between different tis- Trabeculae sue compartments in a person ingesting 1000 mg of calcium per Yellow day. Note that most of the ingested calcium is normally eliminated marrow in the feces, although the kidneys have the capacity to excrete large amounts by reducing tubular reabsorption of calcium. Renal Excretion of Calcium and Phosphate. Approxi- Figure 80- 4. Cortical (compact) and trabecular (spongy) bone. mately 10% (100 mg/day) of the ingested calcium is ex- creted in the urine. About 41% of the plasma calcium is bound to plasma proteins and is therefore not filtered by However, as discussed later in this chapter, PTH can the glomerular capillaries. The remainder is combined greatly increase phosphate excretion by the kidneys, with anions such as phosphate (9%) or ionized (50%) and thereby playing an important role in the control of plasma filtered through the glomeruli into the renal tubules. phosphate and calcium concentrations. Normally, the renal tubules reabsorb 99% of the fil- tered calcium, and about 100 mg/day are excreted in the BONE AND ITS RELATIONSHIP TO urine (see Chapter 30 for further discussion of renal cal- EXTRACELLULAR CALCIUM AND cium excretion). Approximately 90% of the calcium in the PHOSPHATE glomerular filtrate is reabsorbed in the proximal tubules, loops of Henle, and early distal tubules. There are two general type of bony tissue—cortical (com- In the late distal tubules and early collecting ducts, pact) and trabecular (spongy) bone (Figure
