Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of Henle, and early distal tubules. There are two general type of bony tissue—cortical (com- In the late distal tubules and early collecting ducts, pact) and trabecular (spongy) bone (Figure 80-4 ). Cor- reabsorption of the remaining 10% is more variable, tical bone forms the hard outer (cortex) layer, is much depending on the calcium ion concentration in the blood. denser than trabecular bone, and accounts for about When calcium concentration is low, this reabsorp- 80% of the total bone mass of the human skeleton. Cor- tion is great, and almost no calcium is lost in the urine. tical bone is especially thick in the shaft of long bones, Conversely, even a minute increase in blood calcium such as those in the legs, which support the weight of ion concentration above normal increases calcium the entire body. excretion markedly. We shall see later in this chapter Trabecular bone accounts for about 20% of bone mass that the most important factor controlling this reab- and is found in the interior of skeletal bones. It is much sorption of calcium in the distal portions of the neph- more porous than cortical bone and is usually located at ron, and therefore controlling the rate of calcium the ends of long bones, near joints and in the interior of excretion, is PTH. vertebrae. Trabecular bone contains lattice- shaped units Renal phosphate excretion is controlled by an overflow with bony spicules (trabeculae) that branch and unite mechanism, as explained in Chapter 30. That is, when with one another form an irregular meshwork. The spaces phosphate concentration in the plasma is below the criti- between the trabeculae are filled with red bone mar- cal value of about 1 mmol/L, all the phosphate in the glo- row where hematopoiesis, the production of blood cells, merular filtrate is reabsorbed and no phosphate is lost in occurs. The rates of synthesis and resorption, and there- the urine. Above this critical concentration, however, the fore bone turnover rate, are much higher for trabecular rate of phosphate loss is directly proportional to the addi- bone than for cortical bone. tional increase. Thus, the kidneys regulate the phosphate Bone is composed of a tough organic matrix that is concentration in the extracellular fluid by altering the rate greatly strengthened by deposits of calcium salts. Average of phosphate excretion in accordance with the plasma cortical bone contains by weight about 30% matrix and
