Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fluid by altering the rate greatly strengthened by deposits of calcium salts. Average of phosphate excretion in accordance with the plasma cortical bone contains by weight about 30% matrix and phosphate concentration and the rate of phosphate filtra- 70% salts. Newly formed bone may have a considerably tion by the kidneys. higher percentage of matrix in relation to salts. 993 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Organic Matrix of Bone. The organic matrix of bone PRECIPITATION AND ABSORPTION is 90% to 95% collagen fibers, and the remainder is a OF CALCIUM AND PHOSPHATE IN homogeneous gelatinous medium called ground sub- BONE—EQUILIBRIUM WITH THE stance. The collagen fibers extend primarily along the EXTRACELLULAR FLUIDS lines of tensional force and give bone its powerful tensile strength. Hydroxyapatite Does Not Precipitate in Extracellular The ground substance is composed of extracellular Fluid Despite Supersaturation of Calcium and Phos- fluid plus proteoglycans, especially chondroitin sulfate phate Ions. The concentrations of calcium and phosphate and hyaluronic acid. These proteoglycans help control ions in extracellular fluid are considerably greater than the deposition of calcium salts and are important in bone those required to cause precipitation of hydroxyapatite. repair after injury, although some of their functions are However, inhibitors are present in almost all tissues of the still unclear. body, as well as in plasma, to prevent precipitation; one such inhibitor is pyrophosphate. Therefore, hydroxyapa- Bone Salts. The crystalline salts deposited in the organic tite crystals fail to precipitate in normal tissues except in matrix of bone are composed principally of calcium and bone despite the state of supersaturation of the ions. phosphate. The formula for the major crystalline salt, known as hydroxyapatite, is as follows: Mechanism of Bone Calcification. The initial stage in bone production is secretion of collagen molecules (called Ca (PO ) (OH) 10 4 6 2 collagen monomers) and ground substance (mainly prote- Each crystal—about 400 angstroms (Å) long, 10 to 30 oglycans) by osteoblasts. The collagen monomers polym- Å thick, and 100 Å—is shaped like a long, flat plate. The erize rapidly to form collagen fibers; the resultant tissue relative ratio of calcium to phosphorus can vary markedly becomes osteoid, a cartilage- like material differing from under different nutritional conditions, with the calcium cartilage in that calcium salts readily precipitate in it. As to phosphorus ratio on a weight basis varying between the osteoid is formed, some of the osteoblasts become 1.3
