Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


calcium cartilage in that calcium salts readily precipitate in it. As to phosphorus ratio on a weight basis varying between the osteoid is formed, some of the osteoblasts become 1.3 and 2.0. entrapped in the osteoid and become quiescent. At this Magnesium, sodium, potassium, and carbonate ions stage, they are called osteocytes. are also present among the bone salts, although x- ray Within a few days after the osteoid is formed, calcium diffraction studies fail to show definite crystals formed salts begin to precipitate on the surfaces of the collagen by them. Therefore, they are believed to be conjugated fibers. The precipitates first appear at intervals along each to the hydroxyapatite crystals rather than organized into collagen fiber, forming minute nidi that rapidly multiply distinct crystals of their own. This ability of many types and grow over a period of days and weeks into the fin- of ions to conjugate to bone crystals extends to many ished product, hydroxyapatite crystals. ions normally foreign to bone, such as strontium, ura- The initial calcium salts to be deposited are not nium, plutonium, the other transuranic elements, lead, hydroxyapatite crystals but amorphous compounds gold, and other heavy metals. Deposition of radioactive (noncrystalline), a mixture of salts such as CaHPO 4 × substances in the bone can cause prolonged irradiation 2H 2O, Ca 3(PO 4) 2 × 3H 2O, and others. Then, by a pro- of the bone tissues, and if a sufficient amount is depos- cess of substitution and addition of atoms, or reabsorp- ited, an osteogenic sarcoma (bone cancer) may eventu- tion and reprecipitation, these salts are converted into the ally develop. hydroxyapatite crystals over a period of weeks or months. A few percent may remain permanently in the amorphous Tensile and Compressional Strength of Bone. form, which is important because these amorphous salts Each collagen fiber of cortical (compact) bone is com- can be absorbed rapidly when there is a need for extra posed of repeating periodic segments every 640 Å along calcium in the extracellular fluid. its length; hydroxyapatite crystals lie adjacent to each seg- Although the mechanism that causes calcium salts to ment of the fiber and are bound tightly to it. This intimate be deposited in the osteoid is not fully understood, regu- bonding prevents “shear” in the bone; that is, it prevents lation of this process appears to depend to a great extent the crystals and collagen
