Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is not fully understood, regu- bonding prevents “shear” in the bone; that is, it prevents lation of this process appears to depend to a great extent the crystals and collagen fibers from slipping out of place, on pyrophosphate, which inhibits hydroxyapatite crystal- which is essential in providing strength to the bone. In lization and calcification of the bone. The levels of pyro- addition, the segments of adjacent collagen fibers overlap, phosphate, in turn, are regulated by at least three other also causing hydroxyapatite crystals to be overlapped like molecules. One of the most important of these molecules bricks keyed to one another in a brick wall. is a substance called tissue- nonspecific alkaline phospha- The collagen fibers of bone, like those of tendons, have tase (TNAP), which breaks down pyrophosphate and great tensile strength, whereas the calcium salts have keeps its levels in check so that bone calcification can great compressional strength. These combined properties occur as needed. TNAP is secreted by osteoblasts into plus the degree of bondage between the collagen fibers the osteoid to neutralize pyrophosphate, and once pyro- and the crystals provide a bony structure that has both phosphate has been neutralized, the natural affinity of the extreme tensile strength and compressional strength. collagen fibers for calcium salts causes hydroxyapatite 994 Chapter 80 Parathyroid Hormone, Calcitonin, Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism, Vitamin D, Bone, and Teeth crystallization. The importance of TNAP in bone min- Osteoblasts Fibrous periosteum eralization is illustrated by the finding that mice with genetic deficiency of TNAP, which causes pyrophosphate levels to rise too high, are born with soft bones that are not adequately calcified. The osteoblast also secretes at least two other sub- stances that regulate bone calcification: (1) nucleotide pyrophosphatase phosphodiesterase 1 (NPP1), which pro- duces pyrophosphate outside the cells, and (2) ankylosis protein (ANK), which contributes to the extracellular pool Osteoclasts Vein of pyrophosphate by transporting it from the interior to the surface of the cell. Deficiencies of NPP1 or ANK cause decreased extracellular pyrophosphate and excessive cal- cification of bone, such as bone spurs, or even calcifica- Bone tion of other tissues such as tendons and ligaments of the spine, which occurs in people with a form of arthritis called ankylosing spondylitis. Figure 80- 5. Osteoblastic and osteoclastic activity in the same bone. Precipitation of Calcium in Nonosseous Tissues Un- der Abnormal Conditions. Although calcium salts usu- DEPOSITION AND RESORPTION OF
