Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


spondylitis. Figure 80- 5. Osteoblastic and osteoclastic activity in the same bone. Precipitation of Calcium in Nonosseous Tissues Un- der Abnormal Conditions. Although calcium salts usu- DEPOSITION AND RESORPTION OF ally do not precipitate in normal tissues besides bone, BONE—REMODELING OF BONE under abnormal conditions, they can precipitate. For example, they precipitate in arterial walls in arterioscle- Deposition of Bone by the Osteoblasts. Bone is contin- rosis and cause the arteries to become bonelike tubes. ually being deposited by osteoblasts, and it is continually Likewise, calcium salts frequently deposit in degenerating being resorbed where osteoclasts are active (Figure 80- 5). tissues or in old blood clots. Presumably, in these cases, Osteoblasts are found on the outer surfaces of the bones the inhibitor factors that normally prevent deposition of and in the bone trabecular cavities. A small amount of calcium salts disappear from the tissues, thereby allowing osteoblastic activity occurs continually in all living bones precipitation. (on ≈4% of all surfaces at any given time in an adult), so at least some new bone is being formed constantly. CALCIUM EXCHANGE BETWEEN BONE Resorption of Bone—Function of the Osteoclasts. AND EXTRACELLULAR FLUID Bone is also being continually resorbed in the presence of If soluble calcium salts are injected intravenously, calcium osteoclasts, which are large, phagocytic, multinucleated ion concentration may increase immediately to high lev- cells (containing as many as 50 nuclei) that are derivatives els. However, within 30 to 60 minutes, calcium ion con- of monocytes or monocyte- like cells formed in the bone centration returns to normal. Likewise, if large quantities marrow. The osteoclasts are normally active on less than of calcium ions are removed from the circulating body 1% of the bone surfaces of an adult and, as discussed later, fluids, the calcium ion concentration again returns to PTH controls the bone resorptive activity of osteoclasts. normal within 30 minutes to about 1 hour. These effects Histologically, bone absorption occurs immedi- result largely from the fact that the bone contains a type ately adjacent to the osteoclasts. The mechanism of this of exchangeable calcium that is always in equilibrium with resorption is believed to be the following: The osteoclasts calcium ions in the extracellular fluids. send out villus- like projections toward the bone, form- A small portion of this exchangeable calcium is also ing a ruffled border adjacent to the bone (Figure 80- 6). the calcium found in all tissue
