Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


toward the bone, form- A small portion of this exchangeable calcium is also ing a ruffled border adjacent to the bone (Figure 80- 6). the calcium found in all tissue cells, especially in highly The villi secrete two types of substances: (1) proteolytic permeable types of cells such as those of the liver and the enzymes, released from the lysosomes of the osteoclasts, gastrointestinal tract. However, most of the exchange- and (2) several acids, including citric acid and lactic acid, able calcium is in the bone, normally comprising about released from the mitochondria and secretory vesicles. 0.4% to 1% of the total bone calcium. This calcium is The enzymes digest or dissolve the organic matrix of the deposited in the bones in a form of readily mobilizable bone, and the acids cause dissolution of the bone salts. salt such as CaHPO and other amorphous calcium The osteoclastic cells also imbibe minute particles of bone 4 salts. matrix and crystals by phagocytosis, eventually also dis- This exchangeable calcium provides a rapid buffer- soluting these particles and releasing the products into ing mechanism to keep calcium ion concentration in the the blood. extracellular fluids from rising to excessive levels or fall- As discussed later, PTH stimulates osteoclast activ- ing to low levels under transient conditions of excess or ity and bone resorption, but this process occurs through decreased availability of calcium. an indirect mechanism. The bone- resorbing osteoclast 995 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Preosteoclasts formation. Glucocorticoids also promote osteoclast activ- ity and bone resorption by increasing RANKL production RANK Osteoclast and decreasing formation of OPG. On the other hand, the PTH Acid secretion hormone estrogen stimulates OPG production. The bal- Vitamin D Lysosome ance of OPG and RANKL produced by osteoblasts there- OPG Ruffled fore plays a major role in determining osteoclast activity M-CSF membrane and bone resorption. The therapeutic importance of the OPG- RANKL path- Osteoblast RANKL way is currently being exploited. Novel drugs that mimic the action of OPG by blocking the interaction of RANKL Area of bone resorption with its receptor appear to be useful for treating bone loss in postmenopausal women and in some patients with bone cancer. Bone Deposition and Resorption Are Normally in Osteocytes Equilibrium. Except in growing bones, the rates of bone deposition and resorption are normally equal, so the total Figure 80- 6. Bone resorption by osteoclasts. Parathyroid hormone mass of
