Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Osteocytes Equilibrium. Except in growing bones, the rates of bone deposition and resorption are normally equal, so the total Figure 80- 6. Bone resorption by osteoclasts. Parathyroid hormone mass of bone remains constant. Osteoclasts usually ex- (PTH) binds to receptors on osteoblasts, causing them to form re- ist in small but concentrated masses, and once a mass of ceptor activator for nuclear factor κB ligand (RANKL) and to release macrophage-c olony stimulating factor (M-C SF). RANKL binds to osteoclasts begins to develop, it usually eats away at the RANK and M-C SF binds to its receptors on preosteoclast cells, caus- bone for about 3 weeks, creating a tunnel that ranges in ing them to differentiate into mature osteoclasts. PTH also decreases diameter from 0.2 to 1 millimeter and is several millim- production of osteoprotegerin (OPG), which inhibits differentiation eters long. At the end of this time, the osteoclasts disap- of preosteoclasts into mature osteoclasts by binding to RANKL and pear, the tunnel is invaded by osteoblasts, and new bone preventing it from interacting with its receptor on preosteoclasts. The mature osteoclasts develop a ruffled border and release enzymes begins to develop. Bone deposition continues for several from lysosomes, as well as acids that promote bone resorption. Os- months, with the new bone being laid down in successive teocytes are osteoblasts that have become encased in bone matrix layers of concentric circles (lamellae) on the inner sur- during bone tissue production; the osteocytes form a system of inter- faces of the cavity until the tunnel is filled. Deposition of connected cells that spreads throughout the bone. new bone ceases when the bone begins to encroach on the blood vessels supplying the area. The canal through cells do not have PTH receptors. Instead, the osteoblasts which these vessels run, called the haversian canal, is signal osteoclast precursors to form mature osteoclasts. all that remains of the original cavity. Each new area of Two osteoblast proteins responsible for this signaling are bone deposited in this way is called an osteon, as shown in receptor activator for nuclear factor κB ligand (RANKL) Figure 80- 7. and macrophage colony- stimulating factor, which are both necessary for formation of mature osteoclasts. Value of Continual Bone Remodeling. The continual PTH binds to receptors on the adjacent osteoblasts, deposition and resorption of bone have several impor- stimulating synthesis of RANKL, which is also called tant functions. First, bone
