Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


The continual PTH binds to receptors on the adjacent osteoblasts, deposition and resorption of bone have several impor- stimulating synthesis of RANKL, which is also called tant functions. First, bone ordinarily adjusts its strength osteoprotegerin ligand (OPGL). RANKL binds to its in proportion to the degree of bone stress. Consequently, receptors (RANK) on preosteoclast cells, causing them bones thicken when subjected to heavy loads. Second, to differentiate into mature multinucleated osteoclasts. even the shape of the bone can be rearranged for proper The mature osteoclasts then develop a ruffled border and support of mechanical forces by deposition and resorp- release enzymes and acids that promote bone resorption. tion of bone in accordance with stress patterns. Third, be- Osteoblasts also produce osteoprotegerin (OPG), cause old bone becomes relatively brittle and weak, new sometimes called osteoclastogenesis inhibitory factor, organic matrix is needed as the old organic matrix degen- a cytokine that inhibits bone resorption. OPG acts as a erates. In this manner, the normal toughness of bone is “decoy,” binding to RANKL and preventing it from inter- maintained. Indeed, the bones of children, in whom the acting with its receptor, thereby inhibiting differentia- rates of deposition and absorption are rapid, show little tion of preosteoclasts into mature osteoclasts that resorb brittleness in comparison with the bones of the elderly, bone. OPG opposes the bone resorptive activity of PTH, in whom the rates of deposition and resorption are slow. and mice with a genetic deficiency of OPG have severe decreases in bone mass compared with mice that have Control of the Rate of Bone Deposition by Bone normal OPG formation. “Stress” Bone is deposited in proportion to the compres- Although the factors regulating OPG are not well sional load that the bone must carry. For example, the understood, vitamin D and PTH appear to stimulate pro- bones of athletes become considerably heavier than those duction of mature osteoclasts through the dual action of nonathletes. Also, if a person has one leg in a cast but of inhibiting OPG production and stimulating RANKL continues to walk on the opposite leg, the bone of the leg in 996 Chapter 80 Parathyroid Hormone, Calcitonin, Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism, Vitamin D, Bone, and Teeth Skin Cholecalciferol (vitamin D ) 3 Epiphyseal line Liver Magnified Inhibition section 25-Hydroxycholecalciferol Osteon Kidney Activation Parathyroid Haversian hormone canal 1,25-Dihydroxycholecalciferol Intestinal epithelium Canaliculi Calcium- Calcium- Alkaline Lacunae binding stimulated phosphatase protein ATPase
