Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


D ) 3 Epiphyseal line Liver Magnified Inhibition section 25-Hydroxycholecalciferol Osteon Kidney Activation Parathyroid Haversian hormone canal 1,25-Dihydroxycholecalciferol Intestinal epithelium Canaliculi Calcium- Calcium- Alkaline Lacunae binding stimulated phosphatase protein ATPase Inhibition Epiphyseal line Intestinal absorption of calcium Figure 80- 7. Structure of cortical bone. Plasma calcium ion concentration the cast becomes thin and as much as 30% decalcified with- Figure 80- 8. Activation of vitamin D 3 to form 1,25- in a few weeks, whereas the opposite bone remains thick dihydroxycholecalciferol and the role of vitamin D in controlling the plasma calcium concentration. and normally calcified. Therefore, continual physical stress stimulates osteoblastic deposition and calcification of bone. Bone stress also determines the shape of bones under VITAMIN D certain circumstances. For example, if a long bone of the leg breaks in its center and then heals at an angle, the com- Vitamin D has a potent effect to increase calcium absorp- pression stress on the inside of the angle causes increased tion from the intestinal tract; it also has important effects deposition of bone. Increased resorption occurs on the on bone deposition and bone resorption, as discussed outer side of the angle where the bone is not compressed. later. However, vitamin D itself is not the active substance After many years of increased deposition on the inner that actually causes these effects. Instead, vitamin D side of the angulated bone and resorption on the outer must first be converted through a succession of reactions side, the bone can become almost straight, especially in the liver and the kidneys to the final active product, in children because of the rapid remodeling of bone at 1,25- dihydroxycholecalciferol, also called 1,25(OH) 2D 3. younger ages. Figure 80- 8 shows the succession of steps that lead to formation of this substance from vitamin D. Repair of a Fracture Activates Osteoblasts. Fracture of Cholecalciferol (Vitamin D ) Is Formed in the Skin. a bone in some way maximally activates all the periosteal 3 Several compounds derived from sterols belong to the and intraosseous osteoblasts involved in the break. Also, vitamin D family, and they all perform similar functions. immense numbers of new osteoblasts are formed almost Vitamin D (also called cholecalciferol) is the most impor- immediately from osteoprogenitor cells, which are bone 3 stem cells in the surface tissue lining bone, called the “bone tant of these compounds and is formed in the skin as
