Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


immediately from osteoprogenitor cells, which are bone 3 stem cells in the surface tissue lining bone, called the “bone tant of these compounds and is formed in the skin as a membrane.” Therefore, within a short time, a large bulge of result of irradiation of 7- dehydrocholesterol, a substance osteoblastic tissue and new organic bone matrix, followed normally in the skin, by ultraviolet rays from the sun. Con- shortly by the deposition of calcium salts, develops be- sequently, appropriate exposure to the sun prevents vita- tween the two broken ends of the bone. This area is called min D deficiency. The additional vitamin D compounds a callus. that we ingest in food are identical to the cholecalciferol Many orthopedic surgeons use the phenomenon of formed in the skin, except for the substitution of one or bone stress to accelerate fracture healing. This acceleration more atoms that do not affect their function. is achieved through use of special mechanical fixation ap- paratuses for holding the ends of the broken bone together Cholecalciferol Is Converted to 25-H ydroxycholecal- so that the patient can continue to use the bone immediate- ciferol in the Liver. The first step in the activation of ly. This use causes stress on the opposed ends of the broken bones, which accelerates osteoblastic activity at the break cholecalciferol is to convert it to 25-h ydroxycholecalciferol, and often shortens convalescence. which occurs in the liver. The process is limited because 997 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction 1.2 6 Normal range 1.0 5 0.8 4 3 0.6 2 0.4 Normal 1 X 0.2 0 0 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 Plasma calcium (mg/100 ml) Intake of vitamin D ((cid:31)(cid:30)normal) 3 Figure 80- 10. Effect of plasma calcium concentration on the plasma Figure 80- 9. Effect of increasing vitamin D intake on the plasma concentration of 1,25- dihydroxycholecalciferol. This figure shows 3 concentration of 25-h ydroxycholecalciferol. This figure shows that in- that a slight decrease in calcium concentration below normal causes creases in vitamin D intake, up to 2.5 times normal, have little effect on increased formation of activated vitamin D, which in turn leads to the final quantity of activated vitamin D that is formed. Deficiency of greatly increased absorption of calcium from the intestine. activated vitamin D occurs only at very low levels of vitamin D intake. the
