Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


activated vitamin D that is formed. Deficiency of greatly increased absorption of calcium from the intestine. activated vitamin D occurs only at very low levels of vitamin D intake. the 25-h ydroxycholecalciferol has a feedback inhibitory concentration of calcium in the plasma. There are two rea- effect on the conversion reactions. This feedback effect is sons for this effect. First, the calcium ion has a slight effect extremely important for two reasons. in preventing conversion of 25- hydroxycholecalciferol to First, the feedback mechanism precisely regulates the 1,25- dihydroxycholecalciferol. Second, and even more concentration of 25-h ydroxycholecalciferol in the plasma, important, as we discuss later in the chapter, the rate of an effect that is shown in Figure 80- 9. Note that intake PTH secretion is greatly suppressed when plasma cal- of vitamin D can increase many times, and yet the con- cium ion concentration rises above 9 to 10 mg/100 ml. 3 centration of 25-h ydroxycholecalciferol remains nearly Therefore, at calcium concentrations below this level, normal. This high degree of feedback control prevents PTH promotes conversion of 25- hydroxycholecalciferol excessive action of vitamin D when intake of vitamin D is to 1,25- dihydroxycholecalciferol in the kidneys. At high- 3 altered over a wide range. er calcium concentrations, when PTH is suppressed, Second, this controlled conversion of vitamin D to 25- hydroxycholecalciferol is converted to a different 3 25- hydroxycholecalciferol conserves the vitamin D stored compound—24,25- dihydroxycholecalciferol—that has al- in the liver for future use. Once vitamin D is converted, most no vitamin D effect. 3 the 25-h ydroxycholecalciferol persists in the body for When plasma calcium concentration is already too only a few weeks, whereas in the vitamin D form, it can high, formation of 1,25-d ihydroxycholecalciferol is be stored in the liver for many months. greatly depressed. Lack of 1,25- dihydroxycholecalciferol, in turn, decreases absorption of calcium from the intes- Formation of 1,25- Dihydroxycholecalciferol in the tines, bones, and renal tubules, thus causing the calcium Kidneys and Its Control by Parathyroid Hormone. ion concentration to fall back toward its normal level. Figure 80-8 also shows the conversion in the proximal tubules of the kidneys of 25- hydroxycholecalciferol to ACTIONS OF VITAMIN D 1,25-d ihydroxycholecalciferol. This latter substance is by far the most active form of vitamin D because the The active form of vitamin D, 1,25-d ihydroxycholecalciferol, previous products in the scheme of Figure 80-8 have has several effects
