Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


far the most active form of vitamin D because the The active form of vitamin D, 1,25-d ihydroxycholecalciferol, previous products in the scheme of Figure 80-8 have has several effects on the intestines, kidneys, and bones less than 1/1000 of the vitamin D effect. Therefore, in that increase absorption of calcium and phosphate into the absence of the kidneys, vitamin D loses almost all its the extracellular fluid and contribute to feedback regula- effectiveness. tion of these substances. Note also in Figure 80- 8 that the conversion of Vitamin D receptors are present in most cells in the 25- hydroxycholecalciferol to 1,25- dihydroxycholecalciferol body and are located mainly in the nuclei of target cells. requires PTH. In the absence of PTH, almost none of the Similar to receptors for steroids and thyroid hormone, 1,25-d ihydroxycholecalciferol is formed. Therefore, PTH the vitamin D receptor has hormone-b inding and DNA- exerts a potent influence in determining the functional binding domains. The vitamin D receptor forms a com- effects of vitamin D in the body. plex with another intracellular receptor, the retinoid- X receptor, and this complex binds to DNA and activates Calcium Ion Concentration Controls the Forma- transcription in most cases. In some cases, however, vita- tion of 1,25- Dihydroxycholecalciferol. Figure 80- 10 min D suppresses transcription. Although the vitamin D demonstrates that plasma concentration of receptor binds several forms of cholecalciferol, its affinity 1,25- dihydroxycholecalciferol is inversely affected by the for 1,25- dihydroxycholecalciferol is roughly 1000 times 998 -52 amsalP loreficlacelohcyxordyh )lamron(cid:30)(cid:31)( -52,1 amsalP loreficlacselohcyxordyhid )lamron(cid:30)(cid:31)( Chapter 80 Parathyroid Hormone, Calcitonin, Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism, Vitamin D, Bone, and Teeth that for 25-h ydroxycholecalciferol, which explains their mechanism of the effect is unclear, but it probably also relative biological potencies. results from the ability of 1,25-d ihydroxycholecalciferol to cause transport of calcium ions through cell mem- “Hormonal” Effect of Vitamin D to Promote branes—but in this case, perhaps in the opposite direction Intestinal Calcium Absorption. 1,25- Dihydroxycholecal- through the osteoblastic or osteocytic cell membranes. ciferol functions as a type of “hormone” to promote intes- tinal absorption of calcium mainly by increasing, over a PARATHYROID HORMONE period of about 2 days, formation of calbindin, a calcium- binding protein, in intestinal epithelial cells. This protein PTH provides a powerful mechanism for controlling functions in the brush border of these cells to transport extracellular calcium and phosphate concentrations by calcium into the cell cytoplasm.
