Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


This protein PTH provides a powerful mechanism for controlling functions in the brush border of these cells to transport extracellular calcium and phosphate concentrations by calcium into the cell cytoplasm. The calcium then moves regulating intestinal reabsorption, renal excretion, and through the basolateral membrane of the cell by facili- exchange between the extracellular fluid and bone of tated diffusion. The rate of calcium absorption is directly these ions. Excess activity of the parathyroid gland causes proportional to the quantity of this calcium-b inding pro- rapid release of calcium salts from the bones, with resul- tein. Furthermore, this protein remains in the cells for tant hypercalcemia in the extracellular fluid; conversely, several weeks after the 1,25-d ihydroxycholecalciferol has hypofunction of the parathyroid glands causes hypocalce- been removed from the body, thus causing a prolonged mia, often with resultant tetany. effect on calcium absorption. Other effects of 1,25-d ihydroxycholecalciferol that Physiological Anatomy of the Parathyroid Glands. might play a role in promoting calcium absorption are the Normally humans have four parathyroid glands, which are formation of (1) a calcium- stimulated adenosine triphos- located immediately behind the thyroid gland—one behind phatase in the brush border of the epithelial cells and (2) each of the upper and each of the lower poles of the thyroid. an alkaline phosphatase in the epithelial cells. The precise Each parathyroid gland is about 6 millimeters long, 3 mil- details of all these effects are unclear. limeters wide, and 2 millimeters thick and has a macroscop- ic appearance of dark brown fat. The parathyroid glands are Vitamin D Promotes Phosphate Absorption by the In- difficult to locate during thyroid operations because they testines. Although phosphate is usually absorbed easily, often look like just another lobule of the thyroid gland. For phosphate flux through the gastrointestinal epithelium is this reason, before the importance of these glands was gen- enhanced by vitamin D. This enhancement is thought to erally recognized, total or subtotal thyroidectomy frequent- result from a direct effect of 1,25-d ihydroxycholecalciferol, ly resulted in removal of the parathyroid glands as well. but it is possible that it occurs secondarily from this hor- Removal of half the parathyroid glands usually causes no mone's action on calcium absorption, with the calcium in major physiological abnormalities. Removal of three of the turn acting as a transport mediator for the phosphate. four normal glands causes transient hypoparathyroidism, but even a small quantity of
