Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in major physiological abnormalities. Removal of three of the turn acting as a transport mediator for the phosphate. four normal glands causes transient hypoparathyroidism, but even a small quantity of remaining parathyroid tissue is Vitamin D Decreases Renal Calcium and Phosphate usually capable of hypertrophying to satisfactorily perform Excretion. Vitamin D also increases calcium and phos- the function of all the glands. phate reabsorption by the epithelial cells of renal tubules, The parathyroid gland of the adult human being, shown thereby tending to decrease excretion of these substances in Figure 80- 11, contains mainly chief cells and a small in the urine. However, this effect is weak and probably not to moderate number of oxyphil cells, but oxyphil cells are of major importance in regulating extracellular fluid con- absent in many animals and in young humans. The chief cells are believed to secrete most, if not all, of the PTH. centration of these substances. The function of the oxyphil cells is not certain, but the cells are believed to be modified or depleted chief cells that no Effect of Vitamin D on Bone and Its Relation to Para- longer secrete hormone. thyroid Hormone Activity. Vitamin D plays important Chemistry of Parathyroid Hormone. PTH is first syn- roles in bone resorption and bone deposition. Administra- thesized on the ribosomes in the form of a preprohormone, tion of extreme quantities of vitamin D causes resorption a polypeptide chain of 110 amino acids. The endoplasmic of bone. In the absence of vitamin D, the effect of PTH in reticulum and Golgi apparatus first cleave this preprohor- causing bone resorption (discussed in the next section) is mone to a prohormone with 90 amino acids and then to the greatly reduced or even prevented. The mechanism of this hormone itself with 84 amino acids, and it is finally pack- action of vitamin D is not fully understood but is believed aged in secretory granules in the cytoplasm of the cells. The to result from the effect of 1,25-d ihydroxycholecalciferol final hormone has a molecular weight of about 9500. Small- to increase calcium transport through cellular mem- er compounds with as few as 34 amino acids adjacent to the N terminus of the molecule have also been isolated from branes. the parathyroid glands that exhibit full PTH activity. In fact, Vitamin D in smaller quantities promotes bone calcifi- because the kidneys rapidly remove the whole 84–amino
