Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


been isolated from branes. the parathyroid glands that exhibit full PTH activity. In fact, Vitamin D in smaller quantities promotes bone calcifi- because the kidneys rapidly remove the whole 84–amino cation. One of the ways it promotes this calcification is to acid hormone within minutes but fail to remove many of increase calcium and phosphate absorption from the intes- the fragments for hours, a large share of the hormonal ac- tines. However, even in the absence of such an increase, tivity is caused by the fragments. it enhances the mineralization of bone. Here again, the 999 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction PTH to decrease excretion of calcium by the kidneys. The decline in phosphate concentration is caused by a strong effect of PTH to increase renal phosphate excretion, an Parathyroid glands effect that is usually great enough to override increased (located on posterior phosphate absorption from the bone. Thyroid gland side of the thyroid gland) Parathyroid Hormone Mobilizes Calcium and Phosphate From Bone PTH has two effects to mobilize calcium and phosphate from bone. One is a rapid phase that begins in minutes and increases progressively for several hours. This phase results from activation of the already existing bone cells (mainly the osteocytes) to promote calcium and phos- phate release. The second phase is a much slower one, requiring several days or even weeks to become fully Chief cell developed; it results from proliferation of the osteoclasts, followed by greatly increased osteoclastic resorption of bone, not merely release of the calcium phosphate salts Oxyphil cell from the bone. Red blood cell Rapid Phase of Calcium and Phosphate Mobilization From Bone—Osteolysis. When large quantities of PTH are injected, calcium ion concentration in the blood be- Figure 80- 11. The four parathyroid glands lie immediately behind gins to rise within minutes, long before any new bone cells the thyroid gland. Almost all of the parathyroid hormone (PTH) is syn- can be developed. Histological and physiological studies thesized and secreted by the chief cells. The function of the oxyphil cells is uncertain, but they may be modified or depleted chief cells have shown that PTH causes removal of bone salts from that no longer secrete PTH. two areas in bone: (1) from the bone matrix in the vicinity of osteocytes lying within the bone and (2) in the vicinity Begin parathyroid of osteoblasts along the bone surface. hormone Calcium One does
