Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


from the bone matrix in the vicinity of osteocytes lying within the bone and (2) in the vicinity Begin parathyroid of osteoblasts along the bone surface. hormone Calcium One does not usually think of either osteoblasts or 2.40 osteocytes functioning to mobilize bone salt, because 2.35 both these types of cells are osteoblastic in nature and are 2.30 1.2 normally associated with bone deposition and its calcifi- Phosphate 1.0 cation. However, the osteoblasts and osteocytes form a 0.8 system of interconnected cells that spreads all through the bone and over all the bone surfaces except the small sur- 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 face areas adjacent to the osteoclasts (see Figure 80- 6). In Hours fact, long, filmy processes extend from osteocyte to osteo- Figure 80- 12. Approximate changes in calcium and phosphate con- cyte throughout the bone structure and also connect with centrations during the first 5 hours of parathyroid hormone infusion the surface osteocytes and osteoblasts. This extensive at a moderate rate. system is called the osteocytic membrane system, and it is believed to provide a membrane that separates the bone PARATHYROID HORMONE EFFECTS ON from the extracellular fluid. EXTRACELLULAR FLUID CALCIUM AND Between the osteocytic membrane and the bone is PHOSPHATE CONCENTRATIONS a small amount of bone fluid. Experiments suggest that the osteocytic membrane pumps calcium ions from the Figure 80- 12 shows the approximate effects on the blood bone fluid into the extracellular fluid, creating a calcium calcium and phosphate concentrations caused by sud- ion concentration in the bone fluid only one-third that denly infusing PTH into an animal and continuing this in the extracellular fluid. When the osteocytic pump infusion for several hours. Note that at the onset of infu- becomes excessively activated, the bone fluid calcium sion the calcium ion concentration begins to rise and concentration falls even lower, and calcium phosphate reaches a plateau in about 4 hours. However, the phos- salts are then released from the bone. This effect is called phate concentration falls more rapidly than the calcium osteolysis, and it occurs without resorption of the bone's rises and reaches a depressed level within 1 or 2 hours. fibrous and gel matrix. When the pump is inactivated, The rise in calcium concentration is caused mainly by two the bone fluid calcium concentration rises to a higher effects: (1) an effect of PTH to increase calcium and phos- level and
