Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in calcium concentration is caused mainly by two the bone fluid calcium concentration rises to a higher effects: (1) an effect of PTH to increase calcium and phos- level and calcium phosphate salts are redeposited in the phate absorption from the bone, and (2) a rapid effect of matrix. 1000 )L/lomm( muiclaC Phosphate (mmol/L) Chapter 80 Parathyroid Hormone, Calcitonin, Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism, Vitamin D, Bone, and Teeth Where does PTH fit into this picture? First, the cell reabsorption (see Chapter 30). Moreover, it increases membranes of both the osteoblasts and the osteocytes reabsorption of magnesium ions and hydrogen ions while have PTH receptors. PTH activates the calcium pump it decreases reabsorption of sodium, potassium, and strongly, thereby causing rapid removal of calcium phos- amino acid ions in much the same way that it affects phos- phate salts from the amorphous bone crystals that lie phate. The increased calcium reabsorption occurs mainly near the cells. PTH is believed to stimulate this pump by in the thick ascending loop of Henle and distal tubules. increasing the calcium permeability of the bone fluid side Were it not for the effect of PTH on the kidneys to of the osteocytic membrane, thus allowing calcium ions increase calcium reabsorption, continual loss of calcium to diffuse into the membrane cells from the bone fluid. into the urine would eventually deplete both the extracel- Then the calcium pump on the other side of the cell mem- lular fluid and the bones of this mineral. brane transfers the calcium ions the rest of the way into Parathyroid Hormone Increases Intestinal the extracellular fluid. Absorption of Calcium and Phosphate Slow Phase of Bone Resorption and Calcium Phos- At this point, we should be reminded again that PTH phate Release—Activation of the Osteoclasts. A much greatly enhances both calcium and phosphate absorption better known effect of PTH and one for which the evi- from the intestines by increasing formation in the kidneys dence is much clearer is its activation of the osteoclasts. of 1,25-d ihydroxycholecalciferol from vitamin D, as dis- Yet, the osteoclasts do not themselves have membrane cussed earlier in the chapter. receptors for PTH. Instead, the activated osteoblasts and osteocytes send secondary “signals” to the osteoclasts. As Cyclic Adenosine Monophosphate Mediates the Ef- discussed previously, a major secondary signal is RANKL, fects of Parathyroid Hormone. A large share of the ef- which activates receptors on preosteoclast cells
