Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Cyclic Adenosine Monophosphate Mediates the Ef- discussed previously, a major secondary signal is RANKL, fects of Parathyroid Hormone. A large share of the ef- which activates receptors on preosteoclast cells and fect of PTH on its target organs is mediated by the cyclic transforms them into mature osteoclasts that set about adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) second messenger their usual task of gobbling up the bone over a period of mechanism. Within a few minutes after PTH administra- weeks or months. tion, the concentration of cAMP increases in the osteo- Activation of the osteoclastic system occurs in two cytes, osteoclasts, and other target cells. This cAMP in stages: (1) immediate activation of the osteoclasts that turn is probably responsible for such functions as osteo- are already formed and (2) formation of new osteoclasts. clastic secretion of enzymes and acids to cause bone re- Several days of excess PTH usually cause the osteoclas- sorption and formation of 1,25- dihydroxycholecalciferol tic system to become well developed, but it can continue in the kidneys. Other direct effects of PTH may function to grow for months under the influence of strong PTH independently of the second messenger mechanism. stimulation. After a few months of excess PTH, osteoclastic resorp- CONTROL OF PARATHYROID SECRETION tion of bone can lead to weakened bones and secondary BY CALCIUM ION CONCENTRATION stimulation of the osteoblasts that attempt to correct the weakened state. Therefore, the late effect is actually to Even the slightest decrease in calcium ion concentration enhance both osteoblastic and osteoclastic activity. Still, in the extracellular fluid causes the parathyroid glands to even in the late stages, there is more bone resorption than increase PTH secretion within minutes; if the decreased bone deposition in the presence of continued excess PTH. calcium concentration persists, the glands will hypertro- Bone contains such great amounts of calcium in com- phy, sometimes fivefold or more. For example, the para- parison with the total amount in all the extracellular fluids thyroid glands become greatly enlarged in persons with (≈1000 times as much) that even when PTH causes a great rickets, in whom the calcium level is usually depressed rise in calcium concentration in the fluids, it is impossible only a small amount. These glands also become greatly to discern any immediate effect on the bones. Prolonged enlarged during pregnancy, even though the decrease in administration or excess secretion of PTH—over a period calcium ion concentration
