Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


become greatly to discern any immediate effect on the bones. Prolonged enlarged during pregnancy, even though the decrease in administration or excess secretion of PTH—over a period calcium ion concentration in the mother's extracellular of many months or years—finally results in very evident fluid is hardly measurable, and they are greatly enlarged resorption in all the bones and even development of large during lactation because calcium is used for the forma- cavities filled with large, multinucleated osteoclasts. tion of milk. Conversely, conditions that increase the calcium ion Parathyroid Hormone Decreases Calcium concentration above normal cause decreased activity Excretion and Increases Phosphate and reduced size of the parathyroid glands. Such condi- Excretion by the Kidneys tions include (1) excess quantities of calcium in the diet, Administration of PTH causes rapid loss of phosphate in (2) increased vitamin D in the diet, and (3) bone resorp- the urine as a result of the effect of the hormone to dimin- tion caused by factors other than PTH (e.g., disuse of the ish proximal tubular reabsorption of phosphate ions. bones). PTH also increases renal tubular reabsorption of Changes in extracellular fluid calcium ion concentra- calcium at the same time that it diminishes phosphate tion are detected by a calcium- sensing receptor (CSR) in 1001 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Parathyroid hormone Ca2+ Acute ChronicCalcitonin 3 effect effect 1000 CaSR 800 2 600 1 400 PTH 200 Normal levels 0 0 Bone Intestine 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 Kidney Ca2+ Plasma calcium (mg/100 ml) Bone 1,25 Dihydroxy- absorbed cholecalciferol Figure 80- 13. The approximate effect of plasma calcium concen- resorption PO 2– tration on the plasma concentrations of parathyroid hormone and Ca2+ Ca2+ reabsorbed absorb4 ed calcitonin. Note especially that long-t erm changes in calcium concen- efflux PO 2– reabsorbed 4 tration of only a few percentage points can cause as much as 100% change in parathyroid hormone concentration. parathyroid cell membranes. The calcium- sensing recep- Ca2+ tor is a G protein–coupled receptor that, when stimulated by calcium ions, activates phospholipase C and increases Figure 80- 14. Summary of effects of parathyroid hormone (PTH) on intracellular inositol 1,4,5- triphosphate and diacylglycerol bone, the kidneys, and the intestine in response to decreased ex- tracellular fluid calcium ion concentration. CaSR, Calcium-s ensing formation. This activity stimulates release of calcium from receptor. intracellular stores, which, in turn, decreases PTH secre- tion. Conversely,
