Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to decreased ex- tracellular fluid calcium ion concentration. CaSR, Calcium-s ensing formation. This activity stimulates release of calcium from receptor. intracellular stores, which, in turn, decreases PTH secre- tion. Conversely, decreased extracellular fluid calcium ion concentration inhibits these pathways and stimulates increased excretion of phosphate; and (3) PTH is nec- PTH secretion. This process contrasts with that in many essary for conversion of 25-h ydroxycholecalciferol to endocrine tissues in which hormone secretion is stimu- 1,25- dihydroxycholecalciferol, which, in turn, increases lated when these pathways are activated. calcium absorption by the intestines. These actions Figure 80- 13 shows the approximate relation between together provide a powerful means of regulating extracel- plasma calcium concentration and plasma PTH concen- lular fluid calcium concentration. tration. The solid red curve shows the acute effect when the calcium concentration is changed over a period of CALCITONIN a few hours and illustrates that even small decreases in calcium concentration from the normal value can dou- Calcitonin, a peptide hormone secreted by the thyroid ble or triple the plasma PTH. The approximate chronic gland, tends to decrease plasma calcium concentration effect when calcium ion concentration changes over a and, in general, has effects opposite to those of PTH. period of many weeks, thus allowing time for the glands However, the quantitative role of calcitonin in humans to hypertrophy greatly, is shown by the dashed red line, is far less than that of PTH in regulating calcium ion which demonstrates that a decrease of only a fraction of concentration. a milligram per deciliter in plasma calcium concentration Synthesis and secretion of calcitonin occur in the can double PTH secretion. This is the basis of the body's parafollicular cells, or C cells, lying in the interstitial fluid extremely potent feedback system for long- term control between the follicles of the thyroid gland. These cells con- of plasma calcium ion concentration. stitute only about 0.1% of the human thyroid gland and are the remnants of the ultimobranchial glands of fish, SUMMARY OF EFFECTS OF PARATHYROID amphibians, reptiles, and birds. Calcitonin is a 32–amino HORMONE acid peptide with a molecular weight of about 3400. Figure 80- 14 summarizes the main effects of increased Increased Plasma Calcium Concentration Stimulates PTH secretion in response to decreased extracellu- Calcitonin Secretion. The primary stimulus for calci- lar fluid calcium ion concentration: (1) PTH stimulates tonin secretion is increased extracellular fluid calcium ion bone resorption, causing release
