Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to decreased extracellu- Calcitonin Secretion. The primary stimulus for calci- lar fluid calcium ion concentration: (1) PTH stimulates tonin secretion is increased extracellular fluid calcium ion bone resorption, causing release of calcium into the concentration. In contrast, PTH secretion is stimulated extracellular fluid; (2) PTH increases calcium reabsorp- by decreased calcium concentration. tion and decreases phosphate reabsorption by the renal In young animals, but much less so in older animals and tubules, leading to decreased excretion of calcium and in humans, an increase in plasma calcium concentration of 1002 enomroh dioryhtaraP )lm/gn( (pg/ml) Plasma calcitonin Chapter 80 Parathyroid Hormone, Calcitonin, Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism, Vitamin D, Bone, and Teeth about 10% causes an immediate twofold or more increase SUMMARY OF CONTROL OF CALCIUM in calcitonin secretion rate, which is shown by the blue ION CONCENTRATION line in Figure 80- 13. This increase provides a second hormonal feedback mechanism for controlling plasma At times, the amount of calcium absorbed into or lost calcium ion concentration, but one that is relatively weak from the body fluids is as much as 0.3 gram in 1 hour. For and works in a way opposite that of the PTH system. example, in cases of diarrhea, several grams of calcium can be secreted in the intestinal juices, passed into the Calcitonin Decreases Plasma Calcium Concentration. intestinal tract, and lost into the feces each day. In some young animals, calcitonin decreases blood cal- Conversely, after ingestion of large quantities of cal- cium ion concentration rapidly, beginning within minutes cium, particularly when there is also excess vitamin D after injection of the calcitonin, in at least two ways. activity, a person may absorb as much as 0.3 gram in 1 1. The immediate effect is to decrease the absorptive hour. This figure compares with a total quantity of cal- activities of the osteoclasts and possibly the osteo- cium in all the extracellular fluid of about 1 gram. The lytic effect of the osteocytic membrane through- addition or subtraction of 0.3 gram to or from such a out the bone, thus shifting the balance in favor of small amount of calcium in the extracellular fluid would deposition of calcium in the exchangeable bone cause serious hypercalcemia or hypocalcemia. However, calcium salts. This effect is especially significant in there is a first line of defense to prevent this from occur- young animals because of the rapid interchange of ring even
