Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


calcium salts. This effect is especially significant in there is a first line of defense to prevent this from occur- young animals because of the rapid interchange of ring even before the parathyroid and calcitonin hormonal absorbed and deposited calcium. feedback systems have a chance to act. 2. The second and more prolonged effect of calcitonin is to decrease formation of new osteoclasts. Also, Buffer Function of the Exchangeable Calcium in because osteoclastic resorption of bone leads sec- Bones—The First Line of Defense. The exchangeable ondarily to osteoblastic activity, decreased numbers calcium salts in the bones, discussed earlier in this chap- of osteoclasts are followed by decreased numbers of ter, are amorphous calcium phosphate compounds, prob- osteoblasts. Therefore, over a long period, the net ably mainly CaHPO or some similar compound loosely 4 result is reduced osteoclastic and osteoblastic activ- bound in the bone and in reversible equilibrium with the ity and, consequently, little prolonged effect on plas- calcium and phosphate ions in the extracellular fluid. ma calcium ion concentration. That is, the effect on The quantity of these salts that is available for exchange plasma calcium is mainly a transient one, lasting for is about 0.5% to 1% of the total calcium salts of the bone, a few hours to a few days at most. which is a total of 5 to 10 grams of calcium. Because of Calcitonin also has minor effects on calcium handling the ease of deposition of these exchangeable salts and in the kidney tubules and the intestines. Again, the effects their ease of resolubility, an increase in the concentra- are opposite those of PTH, but they appear to be of such tions of extracellular fluid calcium and phosphate ions little importance that they are seldom considered. above normal causes immediate deposition of exchange- able salt. Conversely, a decrease in these concentrations Calcitonin Has a Weak Effect on Plasma Calcium Con- causes immediate absorption of exchangeable salt. This centration in Adult Humans. The reason for the weak reaction is rapid because the amorphous bone crystals are effect of calcitonin on plasma calcium is twofold. First, any extremely small and their total surface area exposed to the initial reduction of the calcium ion concentration caused fluids of the bone is large—perhaps 1 acre or more. by calcitonin leads within hours to a powerful stimulation In addition, about 5% of all the blood flows through of PTH
