Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the bone is large—perhaps 1 acre or more. by calcitonin leads within hours to a powerful stimulation In addition, about 5% of all the blood flows through of PTH secretion, which almost overrides the calcitonin ef- the bones each minute—that is, about 1% of all the extra- fect. When the thyroid gland is removed, and calcitonin is cellular fluid each minute. Therefore, about one-half of no longer secreted, the long- term blood calcium ion con- any excess calcium that appears in the extracellular fluid centration is not measurably altered, which again demon- is removed by this buffer function of the bones in about strates the overriding effect of the PTH system of control. 70 minutes. Second, in the adult human, the daily rates of absorp- In addition to the buffer function of the bones, the tion and deposition of calcium are small, and even after mitochondria of many of the tissues of the body, espe- the rate of absorption is slowed by calcitonin, this still cially of the liver and intestine, contain a significant has only a small effect on plasma calcium ion concentra- amount of exchangeable calcium (≈10 grams in the whole tion. The effect of calcitonin in children is much greater body) that provides an additional buffer system to help because bone remodeling occurs rapidly in children, with maintain constancy of the extracellular fluid calcium ion absorption and deposition of calcium as great as 5 grams concentration. or more per day—equal to 5 to 10 times the total calcium in all the extracellular fluid. Also, in certain bone diseases, Hormonal Control of Calcium Ion Concentration—The such as Paget's disease, in which osteoclastic activity is Second Line of Defense. At the same time that the ex- greatly accelerated, calcitonin has a much more potent changeable calcium mechanism in the bones is “buffering” effect of reducing the calcium absorption. the calcium in the extracellular fluid, both the parathyroid 1003 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction and the calcitonin hormonal systems are beginning to In most patients with hypoparathyroidism, adminis- act. Within 3 to 5 minutes after an acute increase in the tration of extremely large quantities of vitamin D, along calcium ion concentration, the rate of PTH secretion de- with intake of 1 to 2 grams of calcium, keeps the calcium ion concentration in a normal range. At times, it might creases. As already explained, this sets into
