Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


de- with intake of 1 to 2 grams of calcium, keeps the calcium ion concentration in a normal range. At times, it might creases. As already explained, this sets into play multiple be necessary to administer 1,25- dihydroxycholecalciferol mechanisms for reducing the calcium ion concentration instead of the nonactivated form of vitamin D because back toward normal. of its much more potent and much more rapid action. At the same time that PTH decreases, calcitonin However, administration of 1,25- dihydroxycholecalciferol increases. In young animals and possibly in young chil- can also cause unwanted effects because it is sometimes dren (but probably to a smaller extent in adults), the calci- difficult to prevent overactivity by this activated form of tonin causes rapid deposition of calcium in the bones, and vitamin D. perhaps in some cells of other tissues. Therefore, in very Primary Hyperparathyroidism young animals, excess calcitonin can cause a high calcium ion concentration to return to normal perhaps consider- In primary hyperparathyroidism, an abnormality of the parathyroid glands causes inappropriate, excess PTH secre- ably more rapidly than can be achieved by the exchange- tion. The cause of primary hyperparathyroidism ordinarily able calcium- buffering mechanism alone. is a tumor of one of the parathyroid glands; such tumors In prolonged calcium excess or prolonged calcium occur much more frequently in women than in men or deficiency, only the PTH mechanism seems to be really children, mainly because pregnancy and lactation stimu- important in maintaining a normal plasma calcium ion late the parathyroid glands and therefore predispose to the concentration. When a person has a continuing deficiency development of such a tumor. of calcium in the diet, PTH can often stimulate enough Hyperparathyroidism causes extreme osteoclastic ac- calcium absorption from the bones to maintain a normal tivity in the bones, which elevates calcium ion concentra- plasma calcium ion concentration for 1 year or more, but tion in the extracellular fluid while usually depressing the eventually, even the bones will run out of calcium. Thus, concentration of phosphate ions because of increased renal in effect, the bones are a large buffer-r eservoir of calcium excretion of phosphate. that can be manipulated by PTH. Yet, when the bone res- Bone Disease in Hyperparathyroidism. In persons with mild hyperparathyroidism new bone can be deposited rapidly ervoir either runs out of calcium or, alternately, becomes enough to compensate for the increased osteoclastic resorp- saturated with calcium, the
