Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


with mild hyperparathyroidism new bone can be deposited rapidly ervoir either runs out of calcium or, alternately, becomes enough to compensate for the increased osteoclastic resorp- saturated with calcium, the long- term control of extracel- tion of bone. However, in severe hyperparathyroidism, the lular calcium ion concentration resides almost entirely in osteoclastic absorption soon far outstrips osteoblastic deposi- the roles of PTH and vitamin D in controlling calcium tion, and the bone may be eaten away almost entirely. Indeed, absorption from the gut and calcium excretion in the a broken bone is often the reason a person with hyperparathy- urine. roidism seeks medical attention. Radiographs of the bone typ- ically show extensive decalcification and, occasionally, large Pathophysiology of Parathyroid Hormone, punched-o ut cystic areas of the bone that are filled with os- Vitamin D, and Bone Disease teoclasts in the form of so-c alled giant cell osteoclast “tumors.” Hypoparathyroidism Multiple fractures of the weakened bones can result from only slight trauma, especially where cysts develop. The cystic bone When the parathyroid glands do not secrete sufficient PTH, disease of hyperparathyroidism is called osteitis fibrosa cystica. the osteocytic resorption of exchangeable calcium decreas- Osteoblastic activity in the bones also increases greatly es, and the osteoclasts become almost totally inactive. As a in a vain attempt to form enough new bone to make up for result, calcium release from the bones is so depressed that the old bone absorbed by the osteoclastic activity. When the level of calcium in the body fluids decreases. Yet, be- the osteoblasts become active, they secrete large quantities cause calcium and phosphates are not being released from of alkaline phosphatase. Therefore, one of the important the bone, the bone usually remains strong. diagnostic findings in hyperparathyroidism is a high level When the parathyroid glands are suddenly removed, the of plasma alkaline phosphatase. calcium level in the blood falls from the normal of 9.4 mg/dl Effects of Hypercalcemia in Hyperparathyroidism. Hy- to 6 to 7 mg/dl within 2 to 3 days and the blood phosphate perparathyroidism can at times cause plasma calcium level concentration may double. When this low calcium level is to rise to 12 to 15 mg/dl and, rarely, even higher. The effects reached, the usual signs of tetany develop. Among the mus- of such elevated calcium levels, as detailed earlier in the cles of the body especially sensitive to tetanic spasm are the chapter, are
