Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


signs of tetany develop. Among the mus- of such elevated calcium levels, as detailed earlier in the cles of the body especially sensitive to tetanic spasm are the chapter, are depression of the central and peripheral nerv- laryngeal muscles. Spasm of these muscles obstructs res- ous systems, muscle weakness, constipation, abdominal piration, which is the usual cause of death in persons with pain, peptic ulcer, lack of appetite, and depressed relaxation tetany unless appropriate treatment is provided. of the heart during diastole. Treatment of Hypoparathyroidism With PTH and Parathyroid Poisoning and Metastatic Calcification. Vitamin D. PTH is occasionally used to treat hypoparathy- When, on rare occasions, extreme quantities of PTH are roidism. However, hypoparathyroidism is usually not treat- secreted, the level of calcium in the body fluids rises rapidly ed with PTH because this hormone is expensive, its effect to high values. Even the extracellular fluid phosphate con- lasts for a few hours at most, and the tendency of the body centration often rises markedly instead of falling, as is usu- to develop antibodies against it makes it progressively less ally the case, probably because the kidneys cannot excrete and less effective. 1004 Chapter 80 Parathyroid Hormone, Calcitonin, Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism, Vitamin D, Bone, and Teeth all the phosphate being absorbed from the bone rapidly and is available for use during the early winter months. In enough. Therefore, the calcium and phosphate in the body addition, calcium and phosphate mobilization from the fluids become greatly supersaturated, and calcium phos- bones can prevent clinical signs of rickets for the first few phate (CaHPO ) crystals begin to deposit in the alveoli of months of vitamin D deficiency. 4 the lungs, the tubules of the kidneys, the thyroid gland, the Plasma Concentrations of Calcium and Phosphate De- acid- producing area of the stomach mucosa, and the walls crease in Rickets. The plasma calcium concentration in of the arteries throughout the body. This extensive meta- rickets is only slightly depressed, but the level of phosphate static deposition of calcium phosphate can develop within is greatly depressed. This phenomenon occurs because the a few days. parathyroid glands prevent the calcium level from falling by Ordinarily, the level of calcium in the blood must rise promoting bone resorption whenever the calcium level be- above 17 mg/dl before there is danger of parathyroid poi- gins to fall. However, no good regulatory system exists for soning,
