Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


rise promoting bone resorption whenever the calcium level be- above 17 mg/dl before there is danger of parathyroid poi- gins to fall. However, no good regulatory system exists for soning, but once such elevation develops along with con- preventing a falling level of phosphate, and the increased current elevation of phosphate, death can occur in only a parathyroid activity actually increases excretion of phos- few days. phates in the urine. Formation of Kidney Stones in Hyperparathyroidism. Rickets Weakens the Bones. During prolonged cases of Most patients with mild hyperparathyroidism show few rickets, the marked compensatory increase in PTH secre- signs of bone disease and few general abnormalities as a tion causes extreme osteoclastic bone resorption. This in result of elevated levels of calcium, but they do have an turn causes the bone to become progressively weaker and extreme tendency to form kidney stones. The reason for imposes marked physical stress on the bone, resulting in this tendency is that the excess calcium and phosphate ab- rapid osteoblastic activity as well. The osteoblasts lay down sorbed from the intestines or mobilized from the bones in large quantities of osteoid, which does not become calcified hyperparathyroidism must eventually be excreted by the because of insufficient calcium and phosphate ions. Conse- kidneys, causing a proportionate increase in the concen- quently, the newly formed, uncalcified, and weak osteoid trations of these substances in the urine. As a result, crys- gradually takes the place of the older bone that is being re- tals of calcium phosphate tend to precipitate in the kidney, sorbed. forming calcium phosphate stones. Also, calcium oxalate Tetany in Rickets. In the early stages of rickets, tetany stones develop because even normal levels of oxalate cause almost never occurs because the parathyroid glands con- calcium precipitation at high calcium levels. tinually stimulate osteoclastic resorption of bone and, Because the solubility of most renal stones is slight in al- therefore, maintain an almost normal level of calcium in kaline media, the tendency for formation of renal calculi is the extracellular fluid. However, when the bones finally be- considerably greater in alkaline urine than in acid urine. For come exhausted of calcium, calcium concentration may fall this reason, acidotic diets and acidic drugs are frequently rapidly. As the blood level of calcium falls below 7 mg/dl, used to treat renal calculi. the usual signs of tetany develop and the child may die of tetanic
