Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


frequently rapidly. As the blood level of calcium falls below 7 mg/dl, used to treat renal calculi. the usual signs of tetany develop and the child may die of tetanic respiratory spasm unless calcium is administered Secondary Hyperparathyroidism intravenously, which relieves the tetany immediately. In secondary hyperparathyroidism, high levels of PTH occur Treatment of Rickets. Treatment of rickets entails sup- as a compensation for hypocalcemia rather than as a primary plying adequate calcium and phosphate in the diet and, abnormality of the parathyroid glands. In contrast, primary equally important, administering large amounts of vitamin hyperparathyroidism is associated with hypercalcemia. D. If vitamin D is not administered, little calcium and phos- Secondary hyperparathyroidism can be caused by vitamin phate are absorbed from the gut. D deficiency or chronic renal disease in which the damaged Osteomalacia—“Adult Rickets.” Adults seldom have a kidneys are unable to produce sufficient amounts of the ac- serious dietary deficiency of vitamin D or calcium because tive form of vitamin D, 1,25-d ihydroxycholecalciferol. As dis- large quantities of calcium are not needed for bone growth, cussed in more detail in the next section, the vitamin D defi- as is the case in children. However, serious deficiencies of ciency leads to osteomalacia (inadequate mineralization of the both vitamin D and calcium occasionally occur as a result bones), and high levels of PTH cause absorption of the bones. of steatorrhea (failure to absorb fat), because vitamin D is Rickets Caused by Vitamin D Deficiency fat- soluble and calcium tends to form insoluble soaps with fat; consequently, in steatorrhea, vitamin D and calcium Rickets occurs mainly in children. It results from calcium tend to pass into the feces. Under these conditions, an adult or phosphate deficiency in the extracellular fluid, usually occasionally has such poor calcium and phosphate absorp- caused by lack of vitamin D. If the child is adequately ex- tion that rickets can occur. Rickets in adults almost never posed to sunlight, the 7-d ehydrocholesterol in the skin be- proceeds to the stage of tetany but often is a cause of severe comes activated by the ultraviolet rays and forms vitamin bone disability. D 3, which prevents rickets by promoting calcium and phos- Osteomalacia and Rickets Caused by Renal Disease. phate absorption from the intestines, as discussed earlier in “Renal rickets” is a type of osteomalacia that results this chapter. from prolonged kidney damage. The cause of this condi-
