Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Disease. phate absorption from the intestines, as discussed earlier in “Renal rickets” is a type of osteomalacia that results this chapter. from prolonged kidney damage. The cause of this condi- Children who remain indoors through the winter in tion is mainly failure of the damaged kidneys to form general do not receive adequate quantities of vitamin D 1,25- dihydroxycholecalciferol, the active form of vitamin without some supplementation in the diet. Rickets tends D. In patients whose kidneys have been removed or de- to occur especially in the spring months because vitamin D stroyed and who are being treated by hemodialysis, the formed during the preceding summer is stored in the liver problem of renal rickets may be severe. 1005 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Another type of renal disease that leads to rickets and osteomalacia is congenital hypophosphatemia, resulting from congenitally reduced reabsorption of phosphates by Crown Enamel the renal tubules. This type of rickets must be treated with phosphate compounds instead of calcium and vitamin D, and it is called vitamin D–resistant rickets. Neck Osteoporosis—Decreased Bone Matrix Pulp chamber Osteoporosis is the most common of all bone diseases in adults, especially in old age. It is different from osteomala- cia and rickets because it results from diminished organic bone matrix rather than from poor bone calcification. In Dentin persons with osteoporosis the osteoblastic activity in the Root bone is usually less than normal, and consequently the rate of bone osteoid deposition is depressed. Occasionally, however, as in hyperparathyroidism, the cause of the di- Cementum minished bone is excess osteoclastic activity. The many common causes of osteoporosis are the following: (1) lack of physical stress on the bones because of inactivity; (2) malnutrition to the extent that suffi- cient protein matrix cannot be formed; (3) lack of vita- min C, which is necessary for secretion of intercellular Figure 80- 15. The functional parts of a tooth. substances by all cells, including formation of osteoid by the osteoblasts; (4) postmenopausal lack of estrogen secretion because estrogens decrease the number and crown and the root where the tooth is surrounded by the activity of osteoclasts; (5) old age, in which growth hor- gum is called the neck. mone and other growth factors diminish greatly, plus the fact that many of the protein anabolic functions also de- Enamel. The outer surface of the tooth is covered by teriorate with age, so
