Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


growth factors diminish greatly, plus the fact that many of the protein anabolic functions also de- Enamel. The outer surface of the tooth is covered by teriorate with age, so bone matrix cannot be deposited a layer of enamel that is formed before eruption of the adequately; and (6) Cushing syndrome, because massive tooth by special epithelial cells called ameloblasts. Once quantities of glucocorticoids secreted in this disease the tooth has erupted, no more enamel is formed. Enamel cause decreased deposition of protein throughout the is composed of large and dense crystals of hydroxyapa- body and increased catabolism of protein and have the tite with adsorbed carbonate, magnesium, sodium, po- specific effect of depressing osteoblastic activity. Thus, many diseases of deficiency of protein metabolism can tassium, and other ions embedded in a fine meshwork of cause osteoporosis. strong and almost insoluble protein fibers that are similar in physical characteristics (but not chemically identical) to the keratin of hair. PHYSIOLOGY OF THE TEETH The crystalline structure of the salts makes the enamel extremely hard, much harder than the dentin. Also, the The teeth cut, grind, and mix the food that is eaten. To special protein fiber meshwork, although constituting perform these functions, the jaws have powerful mus- only about 1% of the enamel mass, makes enamel resistant cles capable of providing an occlusive force between the to acids, enzymes, and other corrosive agents because this front teeth of 50 to 100 pounds and for the jaw teeth, 150 protein is one of the most insoluble and resistant proteins to 200 pounds. In addition, the upper and lower teeth known. are provided with projections and facets that interdigi- tate, so the upper set of teeth fits with the lower. This Dentin. The main body of the tooth is composed of den- fitting is called occlusion, and it allows even small par- tin, which has a strong bony structure. Dentin is made up ticles of food to be caught and ground between the tooth principally of hydroxyapatite crystals similar to those in surfaces. bone but much denser. These crystals are embedded in a strong meshwork of collagen fibers. Thus, the princi- FUNCTION OF THE DIFFERENT PARTS OF pal constituents of dentin are much the same as those of THE TEETH bone. The major difference is its histological organization because dentin does not contain any osteoblasts, osteo- Figure 80- 15 shows a sagittal section
