Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the same as those of THE TEETH bone. The major difference is its histological organization because dentin does not contain any osteoblasts, osteo- Figure 80- 15 shows a sagittal section of a tooth, demon- cytes, osteoclasts, or spaces for blood vessels or nerves. strating its major functional parts—the enamel, dentin, Instead, it is deposited and nourished by a layer of cells cementum, and pulp. The tooth can also be divided into called odontoblasts, which line its inner surface along the the crown, which is the portion that protrudes out from wall of the pulp cavity. the gum into the mouth, and the root, which is the portion The calcium salts in dentin make it extremely resistant within the bony socket of the jaw. The collar between the to compressional forces, and the collagen fibers make it 1006 Chapter 80 Parathyroid Hormone, Calcitonin, Calcium and Phosphate Metabolism, Vitamin D, Bone, and Teeth tough and resistant to tensional forces that might result when the teeth are struck by solid objects. Enamel organ of milk tooth Primordium of Cementum. Cementum is a bony substance secreted by enamel organ of cells of the periodontal membrane, which lines the tooth permanent tooth socket. Many collagen fibers pass directly from the bone of the jaw, through the periodontal membrane, and then into the cementum. These collagen fibers and the cemen- tum hold the tooth in place. When the teeth are exposed to excessive strain, the layer of cementum becomes thicker A Mesenchymal primordium of pulp and stronger. Also, it increases in thickness and strength with age, causing the teeth to become more firmly seated in the jaws by adulthood and later. Enamel Dentin Pulp. The pulp cavity of each tooth is filled with pulp, Oral epithelium which is composed of connective tissue with an abundant supply of nerve fibers, blood vessels, and lymphatics. The cells lining the surface of the pulp cavity are the odonto- blasts, which, during the formative years of the tooth, lay down the dentin but at the same time encroach more and more on the pulp cavity, making it smaller. In later life, the dentin stops growing and the pulp cavity remains essen- tially constant in size. However, the odontoblasts are still viable and send projections into small dentinal tubules B C that penetrate all the way through the dentin; they are Alveolar bone of importance for exchange of calcium, phosphate, and
