Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


viable and send projections into small dentinal tubules B C that penetrate all the way through the dentin; they are Alveolar bone of importance for exchange of calcium, phosphate, and other minerals with the dentin. Figure 80- 16. A, Primordial tooth organ. B, Developing tooth. C, Erupting tooth. Dentition. Humans and most other mammals develop two sets of teeth during a lifetime. The first teeth are called Development of the Permanent Teeth. During embry- deciduous teeth, or milk teeth, and they number 20 in hu- onic life, a tooth- forming organ also develops in the deep- mans. They erupt between the seventh month and the er dental lamina for each permanent tooth that will form second year of life, and they last until the sixth to the 13th after the deciduous teeth are gone. These tooth- producing year. After each deciduous tooth is lost, a permanent tooth organs slowly form the permanent teeth throughout the replaces it, and an additional 8 to 12 molars appear poste- first 6 to 20 years of life. When each permanent tooth be- riorly in the jaws, making the total number of permanent comes fully formed, it, like the deciduous tooth, pushes teeth 28 to 32, depending on whether the four wisdom outward through the bone. In so doing, it erodes the root teeth finally appear, which does not occur in everyone. of the deciduous tooth and eventually causes it to loosen and fall out. Soon thereafter, the permanent tooth erupts Formation of the Teeth. Figure 80- 16 shows the forma- to take the place of the original one. tion and eruption of teeth. Figure 80- 16A shows invagi- nation of the oral epithelium into the dental lamina, which Metabolic Factors Influence Development of the is followed by the development of a tooth- producing or- Teeth. The rate of development and the speed of eruption gan. The epithelial cells above form ameloblasts, which of teeth can be accelerated by thyroid and growth hor- form the enamel on the outside of the tooth. The epithe- mones. Also, the deposition of salts in the early- forming lial cells below invaginate upward into the middle of the teeth is affected considerably by various factors of metab- tooth to form the pulp cavity and the odontoblasts that olism, such as the availability of calcium and phosphate secrete dentin. Thus, enamel is formed on the outside of in the diet,
