Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


form the pulp cavity and the odontoblasts that olism, such as the availability of calcium and phosphate secrete dentin. Thus, enamel is formed on the outside of in the diet, the amount of vitamin D present, and the rate the tooth and dentin is formed on the inside, giving rise to of PTH secretion. When all these factors are normal, the an early tooth, as shown in Figure 80- 16B. dentin and enamel will be correspondingly healthy, but when they are deficient, calcification of the teeth also may Eruption of Teeth. During early childhood, the teeth be defective and the teeth will be abnormal throughout begin to protrude outward from the bone through the life. oral epithelium into the mouth. The cause of “eruption” is unknown, although the most likely explanation is that Mineral Exchange in Teeth. The salts of teeth, like those growth of the tooth root and the bone underneath the of bone, are composed of hydroxyapatite with adsorbed tooth progressively shoves the tooth forward. carbonates and various cations bound together in a hard 1007 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction crystalline substance. Also, new salts are constantly be- supplied with their preferential metabolic substrate for ing deposited while old salts are being absorbed from the many hours of the day and the development of caries is teeth, as occurs in bone. Deposition and absorption occur greatly increased. mainly in the dentin and cementum and to a limited ex- Role of Fluorine in Preventing Caries. Teeth formed in children who drink water that contains small amounts tent in the enamel. In the enamel, these processes occur of fluorine develop enamel that is more resistant to caries mostly by diffusional exchange of minerals with the saliva than the enamel in children who drink water that does not instead of with the fluids of the pulp cavity. contain fluorine. Fluorine does not make the enamel harder The rate of absorption and deposition of minerals in the than usual, but fluorine ions replace many of the hydroxyl cementum is about equal to that in the surrounding bone ions in the hydroxyapatite crystals, which in turn makes the of the jaw, whereas the rate of deposition and absorption of enamel several times less soluble. Fluorine may also be tox- minerals in the dentin is only one third that of bone. The ic to the bacteria. Finally, when small pits do develop
