Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


times less soluble. Fluorine may also be tox- minerals in the dentin is only one third that of bone. The ic to the bacteria. Finally, when small pits do develop in the cementum has characteristics almost identical to those enamel, fluorine is believed to promote deposition of cal- of usual bone, including the presence of osteoblasts and cium phosphate to “heal” the enamel surface. Regardless of osteoclasts, whereas dentin does not have these charac- the precise means by which fluorine protects the teeth, it is teristics, as explained earlier. This difference undoubtedly known that small amounts of fluorine deposited in enamel make teeth about three times as resistant to caries as teeth explains the different rates of mineral exchange. without fluorine. In summary, continual mineral exchange occurs in the Malocclusion. Malocclusion is usually caused by a he- dentin and cementum of teeth, although the mechanism reditary abnormality that causes the teeth of one jaw to of this exchange in dentin is unclear. However, enamel grow to abnormal positions. In malocclusion, the teeth do exhibits extremely slow mineral exchange, so it maintains not interdigitate properly and therefore cannot perform most of its original mineral complement throughout life. their normal grinding or cutting action adequately. Maloc- clusion occasionally also results in abnormal displacement of the lower jaw in relation to the upper jaw, causing such Dental Abnormalities undesirable effects as pain in the mandibular joint and de- terioration of the teeth. The two most common dental abnormalities are caries and The orthodontist can usually correct malocclusion by malocclusion. Caries refers to erosion of the teeth, whereas applying prolonged gentle pressure against the teeth with malocclusion is failure of the projections of the upper and appropriate braces. The gentle pressure causes absorption lower teeth to interdigitate properly. of alveolar jaw bone on the compressed side of the tooth Caries and the Role of Bacteria and Ingested Carbohy- and deposition of new bone on the tensional side of the drates. Caries result from the action of bacteria on the teeth, tooth. In this way, the tooth gradually moves to a new posi- the most common of which is Streptococcus mutans. The tion as directed by the applied pressure. first event in the development of caries is deposit of plaque, a film of precipitated products of saliva and food, on the teeth. Bibliography Large numbers of bacteria inhabit this plaque and are read- ily available
