Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the male at an average age of 13 years and continues throughout most of the remainder of life but Physiological Anatomy of the Male Sexual Organs decreases markedly in old age. Figure 81-1 A shows various portions of the male re- productive system, and Figure 81-1 B gives a more de- tailed structure of the testis and epididymis. The testis Urinary bladder is composed of up to 900 coiled seminiferous tubules, each averaging more than one- half meter long, in which the sperm are formed. The sperm then empty into the Ampulla Prostate epididymis, which is another coiled tube about 6 meters gland Seminal long. The epididymis leads into the vas deferens, which vesicle enlarges into the ampulla of the vas deferens immediate- Urethra Ejaculatory ly before the vas enters the body of the prostate gland. Erectile duct Two seminal vesicles, one located on each side of the tissue Bulbourethral prostate, empty into the prostatic end of the ampulla, and gland Prepuce the contents from both the ampulla and the seminal vesicles Vas deferens pass into an ejaculatory duct leading through the body of the Glans Epididymis A penis Testis Scrotum prostate gland and then emptying into the internal urethra. Prostatic ducts also empty from the prostate gland into the ejaculatory duct and from there into the prostatic urethra. Head of Finally, the urethra is the last connecting link from the epididymis Testicular artery testis to the exterior. The urethra is supplied with mucus Vas deferens derived from a large number of minute urethral glands lo- Efferent cated along its entire extent and even more so from bilat- ductules eral bulbourethral glands (Cowper glands) located near the origin of the urethra. Seminiferous Body of tubules epididymis Rete testis SPERMATOGENESIS During formation of the embryo, the primordial germ B Tail of epididymis cells migrate into the testes and become immature germ cells called spermatogonia, which lie in two or three layers Figure 81- 1 A, The male reproductive system. B, The internal struc- ture of the testis and the relation of the testis to the epididymis. (A, of the inner surfaces of the seminiferous tubules (a cross Modified from Bloom V, Fawcett DW: Textbook of Histology, 10th section of a tubule is shown in Figure 81- 2A). At puberty ed. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1975. B, Modified from Guyton AC: the spermatogonia begin to undergo mitotic division and Anatomy and Physiology. Philadelphia:
