Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is shown in Figure 81- 2A). At puberty ed. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1975. B, Modified from Guyton AC: the spermatogonia begin to undergo mitotic division and Anatomy and Physiology. Philadelphia: Saunders College Publishing, continually proliferate and differentiate through definite 1985.) 1011 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Birth Primordial germ cell Enters 12-14 testis years Leydig cells Spermatogonia (Interstitial cells) Puberty Seminiferous tubules Spermatogonia A proliferate by mitotic cell division inside testis Spermatids Spermatozoa 25 days Secondary spermatocyte Primary spermatocyte Primary spermatocyte 9 days Meiotic division I Sertoli cell Secondary spermatocytes 19 days Meiotic division II Spermatogonium Spermatids B Figure 81- 2 A, Cross section of a seminiferous tubule. B, Stages in Differentiation the development of sperm from spermatogonia. 21 days Mature sperm In the first stage of spermatogenesis, the spermatogo- nia migrate among Sertoli cells toward the central lumen of the seminiferous tubule. The Sertoli cells are large, with overflowing cytoplasmic envelopes that surround the developing spermatogonia all the way to the central Figure 81- 3 Cell divisions during spermatogenesis. During embryon- ic development, the primordial germ cells migrate to the testis, where lumen of the tubule. they become spermatogonia. At puberty (usually 12 to 14 years after Meiosis. Spermatogonia that cross the barrier into the birth), the spermatogonia proliferate rapidly by mitosis. Some begin meiosis to become primary spermatocytes and continue through mei- Sertoli cell layer become progressively modified and en- otic division I to become secondary spermatocytes. After completion larged to form large primary spermatocytes (Figure 81- 3). of meiotic division II, the secondary spermatocytes produce sperma- Each of these primary spermatocytes, in turn, undergoes tids, which differentiate to form spermatozoa. meiotic division to form two secondary spermatocytes. After another few days, these secondary spermatocytes also divide to form spermatids that are eventually modi- other half being derived from the oocyte provided by the fied to become spermatozoa (sperm). mother. During the change from the spermatocyte stage to the The entire period of spermatogenesis, from spermato- spermatid stage, the 46 chromosomes (23 pairs of chro- gonia to spermatozoa, takes about 74 days. mosomes) of the spermatocyte are divided, and thus 23 chromosomes go to one spermatid and the other 23 go to Sex Chromosomes. In each spermatogonium, one of the second spermatid. The chromosomal genes are also the 23 pairs of chromosomes carries the genetic informa- divided so that only one-half of the genetic characteristics tion
