Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


spermatogonium, one of the second spermatid. The chromosomal genes are also the 23 pairs of chromosomes carries the genetic informa- divided so that only one-half of the genetic characteristics tion that determines the sex of each eventual offspring. of the eventual fetus are provided by the father, with the This pair is composed of one X chromosome, which is 1012 Chapter 81 Reproductive and Hormonal Functions of the Male (and Function of the Pineal Gland) Acrosome and (3) a collection of mitochondria surrounding the Surface membrane axoneme in the proximal portion of the tail, called the Vacuole body of the tail. Head Anterior head cap Back- and- forth movement of the tail (flagellar move- Posterior head cap ment) provides motility for the sperm. This movement Neck results from a rhythmic longitudinal sliding motion between the anterior and posterior tubules that make up Body the axoneme. The energy for this process is supplied in the form of adenosine triphosphate, which is synthesized Mitochondria by the mitochondria in the body of the tail. Microtubules Normal sperm move in a fluid medium at a velocity of 1 to 4 mm/min, which allows them to move through the female genital tract in quest of the ovum. Tail (flagellum) Hormonal Factors That Stimulate Spermatogenesis The role of hormones in reproduction is discussed later in detail; for now, note that several hormones play essen- tial roles in spermatogenesis. Some of these roles are as follows: 1. Testosterone, secreted by the Leydig cells located in the interstitium of the testis (see Figure 81- 2), is essential for growth and division of the testicu- Figure 81- 4 Structure of the human spermatozoon. lar germinal cells, which is the first stage in forming sperm. 2. Luteinizing hormone, secreted by the anterior pi- tuitary gland, stimulates the Leydig cells to secrete called the female chromosome, and one Y chromosome, testosterone. the male chromosome. During meiotic division, the male 3. Follicle- stimulating hormone, also secreted by the Y chromosome goes to one spermatid that then becomes anterior pituitary gland, stimulates the Sertoli cells; a male sperm, and the female X chromosome goes to an- without this stimulation, conversion of the sperma- other spermatid that becomes a female sperm. The sex of tids to sperm (the process of spermiogenesis) will the eventual offspring is determined by which of these not occur. two types of sperm fertilizes the ovum. This process is 4.
