Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tids to sperm (the process of spermiogenesis) will the eventual offspring is determined by which of these not occur. two types of sperm fertilizes the ovum. This process is 4. Estrogens, formed from testosterone by the Sertoli discussed further in Chapter 83. cells when they are stimulated by follicle- stimulating Formation of Sperm. When the spermatids are first hormone, are probably also essential for spermio- formed, they still have the usual characteristics of epithe- genesis. lioid cells, but soon they begin to differentiate and elon- 5. Growth hormone (as well as most of the other body gate into spermatozoa. As shown in Figure 81- 4, each hormones) is necessary for controlling background spermatozoon is composed of a head and a tail. The head metabolic functions of the testes. Growth hormone comprises the condensed nucleus of the cell, with only a specifically promotes early division of the sper- thin cytoplasmic and cell membrane layer around its sur- matogonia; in its absence, as in pituitary dwarfs, face. On the outside of the anterior two-thirds of the head spermatogenesis is severely deficient or absent, thus is a thick cap called the acrosome that is formed mainly causing infertility. from the Golgi apparatus. The acrosome contains several Maturation of Sperm in the Epididymis enzymes similar to those found in lysosomes of the typi- After formation in the seminiferous tubules, the sperm cal cell, including hyaluronidase (which can digest pro- require several days to pass through the 6-m eter- long teoglycan filaments of tissues) and powerful proteolytic tubule of the epididymis. Sperm removed from the semi- enzymes (which can digest proteins). These enzymes play niferous tubules and from the early portions of the epi- important roles in allowing the sperm to enter the ovum didymis are nonmotile and cannot fertilize an ovum. and fertilize it. However, after the sperm have been in the epididymis The tail of the sperm, called the flagellum, has three for 18 to 24 hours, they develop the capability of motility, major components: (1) a central skeleton constructed even though several inhibitory proteins in the epididymal of 11 microtubules, collectively called the axoneme; the fluid still prevent final motility until after ejaculation. structure of the axoneme is similar to that of cilia found on the surfaces of other types of cells described in Chap- Storage of Sperm in the Testes. The two testes of the ter 2; (2) a thin cell
