Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cilia found on the surfaces of other types of cells described in Chap- Storage of Sperm in the Testes. The two testes of the ter 2; (2) a thin cell membrane covering the axoneme; human adult form up to 120 million sperm each day. Most 1013 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction of these sperm are stored in the epididymis, although a enzyme, and a profibrinolysin. During emission, the small quantity is stored in the vas deferens. They can re- capsule of the prostate gland contracts simultaneously main stored, while maintaining their fertility, for at least with the contractions of the vas deferens so that the a month. During this time, they are kept in a deeply sup- thin, milky fluid of the prostate gland adds further to the pressed, inactive state by multiple inhibitory substances bulk of the semen. A slightly alkaline characteristic of in the secretions of the ducts. Conversely, with a high lev- the prostatic fluid may be quite important for successful el of sexual activity and ejaculations, they may be stored fertilization of the ovum because the fluid of the vas def- no longer than a few days. erens is relatively acidic owing to the presence of citric After ejaculation, the sperm become motile and capa- acid and metabolic end products of the sperm and, con- ble of fertilizing the ovum, a process called maturation. sequently, helps inhibit sperm fertility. Also, the vaginal The Sertoli cells and the epithelium of the epididymis secretions of the female are acidic (with a pH of 3.5–4.0). secrete a special nutrient fluid that is ejaculated along Sperm do not become optimally motile until the pH of with the sperm. This fluid contains hormones (including the surrounding fluids rises to about 6.0 to 6.5. Conse- both testosterone and estrogens), enzymes, and special quently, it is probable that the slightly alkaline prostatic nutrients that are essential for sperm maturation. fluid helps neutralize the acidity of the other seminal fluids during ejaculation and thus enhances the motility Physiology of the Mature Sperm. The normal mo- and fertility of the sperm. tile, fertile sperm are capable of flagellated movement through the fluid medium at velocities of 1 to 4 mm/min. SEMEN The activity of sperm is greatly enhanced in a neutral and slightly alkaline medium, as exists in the ejaculated Semen, which is ejaculated during the male sexual act, semen, but it is
