Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of sperm is greatly enhanced in a neutral and slightly alkaline medium, as exists in the ejaculated Semen, which is ejaculated during the male sexual act, semen, but it is greatly depressed in a mildly acidic me- is composed of the fluid and sperm from the vas defer- dium. A strong acidic medium can cause the rapid death ens (≈10% of the total), fluid from the seminal vesicles of sperm. (almost 60%), fluid from the prostate gland (≈30%), and The activity of sperm increases markedly with increas- small amounts from the mucous glands, especially the ing temperature, but so does the rate of metabolism, bulbourethral glands. Thus, the bulk of the semen is causing the life of the sperm to be considerably short- seminal vesicle fluid, which is the last to be ejaculated ened. Although sperm can live for many weeks in the and serves to wash the sperm through the ejaculatory suppressed state in the genital ducts of the testes, the life duct and urethra. expectancy of ejaculated sperm in the female genital tract The average pH of the combined semen is about is only 1 to 2 days. 7.5, with the alkaline prostatic fluid having more than neutralized the mild acidity of the other portions of FUNCTION OF THE SEMINAL VESICLES the semen. The prostatic fluid gives the semen a milky appearance, and fluid from the seminal vesicles and Each seminal vesicle is a tortuous, loculated tube lined mucous glands gives the semen a mucoid consistency. with a secretory epithelium that secretes a mucoid mate- Also, a clotting enzyme from the prostatic fluid causes rial containing an abundance of fructose, citric acid, and the fibrinogen of the seminal vesicle fluid to form other nutrient substances, as well as large quantities of a weak fibrin coagulum that holds the semen in the prostaglandins and fibrinogen. During the process of deeper regions of the vagina where the uterine cervix emission and ejaculation, each seminal vesicle empties lies. The coagulum then dissolves during the next 15 to its contents into the ejaculatory duct shortly after the vas 30 minutes because of lysis by fibrinolysin formed from deferens empties the sperm. This action adds greatly to the prostatic profibrinolysin. In the early minutes after the bulk of the ejaculated semen, and the fructose and ejaculation, the sperm remain relatively immobile, pos- other substances in the seminal fluid are of considerable sibly because
