Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


minutes after the bulk of the ejaculated semen, and the fructose and ejaculation, the sperm remain relatively immobile, pos- other substances in the seminal fluid are of considerable sibly because of the viscosity of the coagulum. As the nutrient value for the ejaculated sperm until one of the coagulum dissolves, the sperm simultaneously become sperm fertilizes the ovum. highly motile. Prostaglandins are believed to aid fertilization in two Although sperm can live for many weeks in the male ways: (1) by reacting with the female cervical mucus to genital ducts, once they are ejaculated in the semen, their make it more receptive to sperm movement and (2) by maximal life span is only 24 to 48 hours at body tempera- possibly causing backward, reverse peristaltic contrac- ture. At lowered temperatures, however, semen can be tions in the uterus and fallopian tubes to move the ejacu- stored for several weeks, and when frozen at temperatures lated sperm toward the ovaries (a few sperm reach the below −100°C, sperm have been preserved for years. upper ends of the fallopian tubes within 5 minutes). “Capacitation” of Spermatozoa Is FUNCTION OF THE PROSTATE GLAND Required for Fertilization of the Ovum The prostate gland secretes a thin, milky fluid that Although spermatozoa are said to be “mature” when contains calcium, citrate ion, phosphate ion, a clotting they leave the epididymis, their activity is held in 1014 Chapter 81 Reproductive and Hormonal Functions of the Male (and Function of the Pineal Gland) check by multiple inhibitory factors secreted by the the ovum, it must dissolute these granulosa cell layers, genital duct epithelia. Therefore, when they are first and then it must penetrate through the zona pellucida, expelled in the semen, they are unable to fertilize the thick covering of the ovum. To achieve this pen- the ovum. However, on coming in contact with the etration, the stored enzymes in the acrosome begin to fluids of the female genital tract, multiple changes be released. The hyaluronidase among these enzymes occur that activate the sperm for the final processes is especially important in opening pathways between of fertilization. These collective changes are called the granulosa cells so that the sperm can reach the capacitation of the spermatozoa, which normally ovum. requires from 1 to 10 hours. The following changes When the sperm reaches the zona pellucida of the are believed to occur: ovum, the anterior membrane of the
