Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


normally ovum. requires from 1 to 10 hours. The following changes When the sperm reaches the zona pellucida of the are believed to occur: ovum, the anterior membrane of the sperm binds spe- 1. The uterine and fallopian tube fluids wash away the cifically with receptor proteins in the zona pellucida. various inhibitory factors that suppress sperm ac- Next, the entire acrosome rapidly dissolves, and all tivity in the male genital ducts. the acrosomal enzymes are released. Within minutes, 2. While the spermatozoa remain in the fluid of the these enzymes open a penetrating pathway for passage male genital ducts, they are continually exposed of the sperm head through the zona pellucida to the to many floating vesicles from the seminiferous inside of the ovum. Within another 30 minutes, the cell tubules containing large amounts of cholesterol. membranes of the sperm head and of the oocyte fuse This cholesterol is continually added to the cellular with each other to form a single cell. At the same time, membrane covering the sperm acrosome, toughen- the genetic material of the sperm and the oocyte com- ing this membrane and preventing release of its en- bine to form a completely new cell genome, contain- zymes. After ejaculation, the sperm deposited in the ing equal numbers of chromosomes and genes from vagina swim away from the cholesterol vesicles up- mother and father. This is the process of fertilization; ward into the uterine cavity, and they gradually lose the embryo then begins to develop, as discussed in much of their other excess cholesterol during the Chapter 83. next few hours. In so doing, the membrane at the Why Does Only One Sperm Enter the Oocyte? With head of the sperm (the acrosome) becomes much as many sperm as there are, why does only one enter the weaker. oocyte? The reason is not entirely known, but within a few 3. The membrane of the sperm also becomes much minutes after the first sperm penetrates the zona pellucida more permeable to calcium ions, so calcium now of the ovum, calcium ions diffuse inward through the oo- enters the sperm in abundance and changes the ac- cyte membrane and cause multiple cortical granules to be tivity of the flagellum, giving it a powerful whiplash released by exocytosis from the oocyte into the perivitel- motion in contrast to its previously weak undu- line space. These granules contain substances that
