Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


flagellum, giving it a powerful whiplash released by exocytosis from the oocyte into the perivitel- motion in contrast to its previously weak undu- line space. These granules contain substances that perme- lating motion. In addition, the calcium ions cause ate all portions of the zona pellucida and prevent binding of changes in the cellular membrane that cover the additional sperm, and they even cause any sperm that have leading edge of the acrosome, making it possible already begun to bind to fall off. Thus, almost never does for the acrosome to release its enzymes rapidly and more than one sperm enter the oocyte during fertilization. easily as the sperm penetrates the granulosa cell mass surrounding the ovum, and even more so as it attempts to penetrate the zona pellucida of the Abnormal Spermatogenesis and Male Fertility ovum. The seminiferous tubular epithelium can be destroyed by Thus, multiple changes occur during the process of several diseases. For example, bilateral orchitis (inflamma- capacitation. Without these changes, the sperm can- tion) of the testes resulting from mumps causes sterility in not make its way to the interior of the ovum to cause some affected males. Also, some male infants are born with fertilization. degenerate tubular epithelia as a result of strictures in the genital ducts or other abnormalities. Finally, another cause Acrosome Enzymes, the “Acrosome of sterility, usually temporary, is excessive temperature of Reaction,” and Penetration of the Ovum the testes. Stored in the acrosome of the sperm are large quantities Effect of Temperature on Spermatogenesis. Increasing the temperature of the testes can prevent spermatogenesis of hyaluronidase and proteolytic enzymes. Hyaluroni- by causing degeneration of most cells of the seminiferous dase depolymerizes the hyaluronic acid polymers in the tubules besides the spermatogonia. It has often been stated intercellular cement that holds the ovarian granulosa cells that the reason the testes are located in the dangling scro- together. The proteolytic enzymes digest proteins in the tum is to maintain the temperature of these glands below structural elements of tissue cells that still adhere to the the internal temperature of the body, although usually only ovum. about 2°C below the internal temperature. On cold days, When the ovum is expelled from the ovarian follicle scrotal reflexes cause the musculature of the scrotum to into the fallopian tube, it still carries with it multiple contract, pulling the testes close to the body to maintain layers of
