Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


reflexes cause the musculature of the scrotum to into the fallopian tube, it still carries with it multiple contract, pulling the testes close to the body to maintain layers of granulosa cells. Before a sperm can fertilize this 2°C differential. Thus, the scrotum acts as a cooling 1015 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction mechanism for the testes (but a controlled cooling), with- out which spermatogenesis might be deficient during hot weather. Cryptorchidism. Cryptorchidism means failure of a testis to descend from the abdomen into the scrotum at or near the time of birth of a fetus. During development of the male fetus, the testes are derived from the genital ridges in the abdomen. However, at about 3 weeks to 1 month before birth of the baby, the testes normally de- scend through the inguinal canals into the scrotum. Oc- casionally this descent does not occur or occurs incom- pletely, and as a result one or both testes remain in the abdomen, in the inguinal canal, or elsewhere along the route of descent. A testis that remains in the abdominal cavity Figure 81- 5 Abnormal infertile sperm, compared with a normal throughout life is incapable of forming sperm. The tu- sperm on the right. bular epithelium becomes degenerate, leaving only the interstitial structures of the testis. It has been claimed MALE SEXUAL ACT that even the few degrees higher temperature in the abdomen than in the scrotum is sufficient to cause NEURONAL STIMULUS FOR PERFORMANCE this degeneration of the tubular epithelium and, con- sequently, to cause sterility, although this effect is not OF THE MALE SEXUAL ACT certain. Nevertheless, for this reason, operations to re- locate the cryptorchid testes from the abdominal cavity The most important source of sensory nerve signals for into the scrotum before the beginning of adult sexual initiating the male sexual act is the glans penis. The life can be performed on boys who have undescended glans contains an especially sensitive sensory end- testes. organ system that transmits into the central nervous Testosterone secretion by the fetal testes is the normal system that special modality of sensation called sexual stimulus that causes the testes to descend into the scrotum sensation. The slippery massaging action of intercourse from the abdomen. Therefore, many, if not most, cases of on the glans stimulates the sensory end organs, and the cryptorchidism are caused by abnormally formed testes sexual signals
