Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


intercourse from the abdomen. Therefore, many, if not most, cases of on the glans stimulates the sensory end organs, and the cryptorchidism are caused by abnormally formed testes sexual signals in turn pass through the pudendal nerve, that are unable to secrete enough testosterone. The surgical then through the sacral plexus into the sacral portion operation for cryptorchidism in these patients is unlikely to of the spinal cord, and finally up the cord to the brain. be successful. Effect of Sperm Count on Fertility. The usual quantity Impulses may also enter the spinal cord from areas adja- cent to the penis to aid in stimulating the sexual act. For of semen ejaculated during each coitus averages about 3.5 milliliters, and each milliliter of semen contains an example, stimulation of the anal epithelium, the scrotum, average of about 120 million sperm, although even in and perineal structures in general can send signals into the “normal” males this quantity can vary from 35 million cord that add to the sexual sensation. Sexual sensations can to 200 million. This means an average total of about 400 even originate in internal structures, such as in areas of million sperm are usually present in the several millilit- the urethra, bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, testes, and ers of each ejaculate. When the number of sperm in each vas deferens. Indeed, one of the causes of “sexual drive” is milliliter falls below about 20 million, the person is likely filling of the sexual organs with secretions. Mild infection to be infertile. Thus, even though only a single sperm is and inflammation of these sexual organs may sometimes necessary to fertilize the ovum, for reasons that are not stimulate sexual desire, and some “aphrodisiac” drugs, such understood, the ejaculate usually must contain a tremen- as cantharidin, irritate the bladder and urethral mucosa, dous number of sperm for only one sperm to fertilize inducing inflammation and vascular congestion. the ovum. Effect of Sperm Morphology and Motility on Fertil- Psychic Element of Male Sexual Stimulation. Appro- ity. Occasionally, a man has a normal number of sperm priate psychic stimuli can greatly enhance the ability of a but is still infertile. When this situation occurs, some- person to perform the sexual act. Simply thinking sexual times as many as one-half of the sperm are found to thoughts or even dreaming that the act of intercourse is be abnormal physically, having two
