Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


act. Simply thinking sexual times as many as one-half of the sperm are found to thoughts or even dreaming that the act of intercourse is be abnormal physically, having two heads, abnormally being performed can initiate the male act, culminating in shaped heads, or abnormal tails, as shown in Figure ejaculation. Indeed, nocturnal emissions during dreams, 81-5 . At other times, the sperm appear to be structur- ally normal, but for reasons not understood, they are ei- often called “wet dreams,” occur in many males during ther entirely nonmotile or relatively nonmotile. When- some stages of sexual life, especially during the teens. ever most of the sperm are morphologically abnormal Integration of the Male Sexual Act in the Spinal Cord. or are nonmotile, the person is likely to be infertile, Although psychic factors usually play an important part even though the remainder of the sperm appear to be in the male sexual act and can initiate or inhibit it, brain normal. function is probably not necessary for its performance 1016 Chapter 81 Reproductive and Hormonal Functions of the Male (and Function of the Pineal Gland) Lubrication Is a Parasympathetic Function. During sexual stimulation, the parasympathetic impulses, in addition Deep penile fascia to promoting erection, cause the urethral glands and the bulbourethral glands to secrete mucus. This mucus Corpus Central flows through the urethra during intercourse to aid in cavernosum artery lubrication during coitus. However, most of the lubri- cation of coitus is provided by the female sexual organs rather than by the male organs. Without satisfactory Corpus Urethra spongiosum lubrication, the male sexual act is seldom successful be- cause unlubricated intercourse causes grating, painful Figure 81- 6 Erectile tissue of the penis. sensations that inhibit rather than excite sexual sensa- tions. because appropriate genital stimulation can cause ejacu- Emission and Ejaculation Are Functions of the lation in some animals and occasionally in humans after Sympathetic Nerves. Emission and ejaculation are the their spinal cords have been cut above the lumbar region. culmination of the male sexual act. When the sexual The male sexual act results from inherent reflex mecha- stimulus becomes extremely intense, the reflex centers nisms integrated in the sacral and lumbar spinal cord, and of the spinal cord begin to emit sympathetic impulses these mechanisms can be initiated by either psychic stim- that leave the cord at T12 to L2 and pass to the genital ulation from the
