Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


begin to emit sympathetic impulses these mechanisms can be initiated by either psychic stim- that leave the cord at T12 to L2 and pass to the genital ulation from the brain or actual sexual stimulation from organs through the hypogastric and pelvic sympathetic the sex organs, but usually it is a combination of both. nerve plexuses to initiate emission, the forerunner of ejaculation. Emission begins with contraction of the vas deferens STAGES OF THE MALE SEXUAL ACT and the ampulla to cause expulsion of sperm into the Penile Erection—Role of the Parasympathetic internal urethra. Then, contractions of the muscular coat Nerves. Penile erection is the first effect of male sexual of the prostate gland followed by contraction of the semi- stimulation, and the degree of erection is proportional nal vesicles expel prostatic and seminal fluid also into the to the degree of stimulation, whether psychic or physi- urethra, forcing the sperm forward. All these fluids mix in cal. Erection is caused by parasympathetic impulses that the internal urethra with mucus already secreted by the pass from the sacral portion of the spinal cord through bulbourethral glands to form the semen. The process to the pelvic nerves to the penis. These parasympathetic this point is emission. nerve fibers, in contrast to most other parasympathetic The filling of the internal urethra with semen elic- fibers, are believed to release nitric oxide and/or vasoac- its sensory signals that are transmitted through the tive intestinal peptide in addition to acetylcholine. Ni- pudendal nerves to the sacral regions of the cord, giv- tric oxide activates the enzyme guanylyl cyclase, causing ing the feeling of sudden fullness in the internal geni- increased formation of cyclic guanosine monophosphate tal organs. Also, these sensory signals further excite (GMP). The cyclic GMP especially relaxes the arteries of rhythmic contraction of the internal genital organs the penis and the trabecular meshwork of smooth mus- and cause contraction of the ischiocavernosus and cle fibers in the erectile tissue of the corpora cavernosa bulbocavernosus muscles that compress the bases of and corpus spongiosum in the shaft of the penis, shown the penile erectile tissue. These effects together cause in Figure 81-6 . As the vascular smooth muscles relax, rhythmic wavelike increases in pressure in the erectile blood flow into the penis increases, causing release of tissue of the penis and the genital ducts and urethra, nitric oxide from the vascular endothelial cells
