Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


pressure in the erectile blood flow into the penis increases, causing release of tissue of the penis and the genital ducts and urethra, nitric oxide from the vascular endothelial cells and fur- which “ejaculate” the semen from the urethra to the ther vasodilation. exterior. This final process is called ejaculation. At the The erectile tissue of the penis consists of large cav- same time, rhythmic contractions of the pelvic mus- ernous sinusoids that are normally relatively empty of cles and even of some of the muscles of the body trunk blood but become dilated tremendously when arterial cause thrusting movements of the pelvis and penis, blood flows rapidly into them under pressure while the which also help propel the semen into the deepest venous outflow is partially occluded. Also, the erec- recesses of the vagina and perhaps even slightly into tile bodies, especially the two corpora cavernosa, are the cervix of the uterus. surrounded by strong fibrous coats; therefore, high This entire period of emission and ejaculation is pressure within the sinusoids causes ballooning of the called the male orgasm. At its termination, the male erectile tissue to such an extent that the penis becomes sexual excitement disappears almost entirely within hard and elongated, which is the phenomenon of 1 to 2 minutes and erection ceases, a process called erection. resolution. 1017 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction TESTOSTERONE AND OTHER MALE SEX of the total in the adult male) that even in women they do HORMONES not cause significant masculine characteristics, except for causing growth of pubic and axillary hair. However, when SECRETION, METABOLISM, AND CHEMISTRY a tumor of the adrenal androgen- producing cells occurs, OF THE MALE SEX HORMONES the quantity of androgenic hormones may then become great enough to cause all the usual male secondary sexual Secretion of Testosterone by the Interstitial Cells of characteristics to occur, even in females. These effects are Leydig in the Testes. The testes secrete several male sex described in connection with the adrenogenital syndrome in Chapter 78. hormones, which are collectively called androgens, in- Rarely, embryonic crest cells in the ovary can develop cluding testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, and androsten- into a tumor that produces excessive quantities of andro- edione. Testosterone is so much more abundant than the gens in women; one such tumor is the arrhenoblastoma. others that one can consider it to be the primary testicular The normal ovary also
