Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


so much more abundant than the gens in women; one such tumor is the arrhenoblastoma. others that one can consider it to be the primary testicular The normal ovary also produces minute quantities of an- hormone, although much of the testosterone is eventually drogens, but they are not significant. converted into the more active hormone dihydrotestos- Androgens Are Steroids. All androgens are steroid terone in target tissues. compounds, as shown by the formulas in Figure 81- 8 for Testosterone is formed by the interstitial cells of Ley- testosterone and dihydrotestosterone. Both in the testes and dig, which lie in the interstices between the seminiferous in the adrenals, the androgens can be synthesized either tubules and constitute about 20% of the mass of the adult from cholesterol or directly from acetyl coenzyme A. testes, as shown in Figure 81- 7. Leydig cells are almost Metabolism of Testosterone. After secretion by the tes- nonexistent in the testes during childhood, when the tes- tes, about 97% of the testosterone becomes either loosely tes secrete almost no testosterone, but they are numerous bound with plasma albumin or more tightly bound with a beta globulin called sex hormone–binding globulin and cir- in the newborn male infant for the first few months of life culates in the blood in these states for 30 minutes to several and in the adult male after puberty; at both these times hours. By that time, the testosterone is either transferred the testes secrete large quantities of testosterone. Fur- to the tissues or degraded into inactive products that are thermore, when tumors develop from the interstitial cells subsequently excreted. of Leydig, great quantities of testosterone are secreted. Much of the testosterone that becomes fixed to the tis- When the germinal epithelium of the testes is destroyed sues is converted within the tissue cells to dihydrotestoster- by x- ray treatment or excessive heat, the Leydig cells, one, especially in certain target organs such as the prostate which are less easily destroyed, often continue to produce gland in the adult and the external genitalia of the male fe- testosterone. tus. Some but not all actions of testosterone depend on this conversion. The intracellular functions are discussed later in this chapter. Secretion of Androgens Elsewhere in the Body. The Degradation and Excretion of Testosterone. The tes- term “androgen” means any steroid hormone that has tosterone that does not become fixed to the tissues is
