Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Elsewhere in the Body. The Degradation and Excretion of Testosterone. The tes- term “androgen” means any steroid hormone that has tosterone that does not become fixed to the tissues is rap- masculinizing effects, including testosterone; it also in- idly converted, mainly by the liver, into androsterone and cludes male sex hormones produced elsewhere in the body dehydroepiandrosterone and simultaneously conjugated as besides the testes. For example, the adrenal glands secrete either glucuronides or sulfates (glucuronides, particularly). at least five androgens, although the total masculinizing These substances are excreted either into the gut by way of activity of all these androgens is normally so slight (<5% the liver bile or into the urine through the kidneys. Production of Estrogen in the Male. In addition to tes- tosterone, small amounts of estrogens are formed in the male (about one fifth the amount in the nonpregnant fe- male), and a reasonable quantity of estrogens can be recov- Interstitial cells of Leydig OH CH Blood vessel 3 OH CH 3 CH 3 Fibroblasts CH 3 O Testosterone Germinal O epithelium H H Dihydrotestosterone Figure 81- 8 Testosterone and dihydrotestosterone. Figure 81-7 Interstitial cells of Leydig, the cells that secrete testos- terone, located in the interstices between the seminiferous tubules. 1018 Chapter 81 Reproductive and Hormonal Functions of the Male (and Function of the Pineal Gland) ered from a man’s urine. The exact source of estrogens in Functions of Testosterone During Fetal the male is unclear, but the following information is known: Development 1. The concentration of estrogens in the fluid of the semi- Testosterone begins to be elaborated by the male fetal tes- niferous tubules is quite high and probably plays an im- portant role in spermiogenesis. This estrogen is believed tes at about the seventh week of embryonic life. Indeed, to be formed by the Sertoli cells by converting testoster- one of the major functional differences between the one to estradiol. female and the male sex chromosome is that the male 2. Much larger amounts of estrogens are formed from chromosome has the sex- determining region Y (SRY) gene testosterone and androstanediol in other tissues of the that encodes a protein called the testis determining fac- body, especially the liver, probably accounting for as tor (also called the SRY protein). The SRY protein initiates much as 80% of the total male estrogen production. a cascade of gene activations that cause the genital ridge
