Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


as tor (also called the SRY protein). The SRY protein initiates much as 80% of the total male estrogen production. a cascade of gene activations that cause the genital ridge cells to differentiate into cells that eventually become the FUNCTIONS OF TESTOSTERONE testes and secrete testosterone, whereas the female chro- mosome causes this ridge to differentiate into cells that In general, testosterone is responsible for the distinguish- secrete estrogens. ing characteristics of the masculine body. Even during fetal Injection of large quantities of male sex hormone life, the testes are stimulated by chorionic gonadotropin into pregnant animals causes development of male sex- from the placenta to produce moderate quantities of testos- ual organs, even though the fetus is female. Also, early terone throughout the entire period of fetal development removal of the testes in the male fetus causes develop- and for 10 or more weeks after birth; thereafter, essentially ment of female sexual organs. no testosterone is produced during childhood until about Thus, testosterone secreted by the fetal testes is the ages of 10 to 13 years. Testosterone production then responsible for development of the male body char- increases rapidly under the stimulus of anterior pituitary acteristics, including the formation of a penis and gonadotropic hormones at the onset of puberty and lasts a scrotum rather than formation of a clitoris and a throughout most of the remainder of life, as shown in Fig- vagina. It also causes formation of the prostate gland, ure 81- 9, dwindling somewhat beyond age 50 to 60 years. seminal vesicles, and male genital ducts, while at the Some studies, however, suggest that plasma testosterone same time suppressing formation of female genital levels may remain in the normal range in most healthy organs. males as they age; only about 10% to 20% of men over 60 Effect of Testosterone to Cause Descent of the Tes- years of age and 50% of men over 80 years of age have “low” tes. The testes usually descend into the scrotum during testosterone levels below 3 ng/ml (usually expressed clini- the last 2 to 3 months of gestation when the testes begin cally as <300 ng/dl or <10.4 nmol/L). In recent years, it has secreting reasonable quantities of testosterone. If a male become clear that there is a clear association between late child is born with undescended but otherwise normal tes- onset reductions in testosterone and metabolic disorders tes,
