Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


If a male become clear that there is a clear association between late child is born with undescended but otherwise normal tes- onset reductions in testosterone and metabolic disorders tes, administration of testosterone usually causes the tes- such as obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Fetal Neonatal Pubertal Adult Old age 100 5.0 2.5 50 1st 2nd 3rd 1 10 17 40 60 80 Trimester Year Figure 81- 9 The different stages of male sexual gestation Birth function as reflected by average plasma testoster- one concentrations (red line) and sperm production Plasma testosterone (blue line) at different ages. (Modified from Griffin (ng/ml) JF, Wilson JD: The testis. In: Bondy PK, Rosenberg LE Sperm production [eds]: Metabolic Control and Disease, 8th ed. Phila- (% of maximal) delphia: WB Saunders, 1980.) 1019 enoretsotset amsalP )lm/gn( Sperm production (% of maximal) UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction tes to descend in the usual manner if the inguinal canals normally adapts to the testosterone in a way that allows it are large enough to allow the testes to pass. to overcome the acne. Administration of gonadotropic hormones, which Testosterone Increases Protein Formation and Muscle stimulate the Leydig cells of the newborn child’s testes to Development. One of the most important male charac- produce testosterone, can also cause the testes to descend. teristics is development of increasing musculature after Thus, the stimulus for descent of the testes is testosterone, puberty, averaging about a 50% increase in muscle mass indicating again that testosterone is an important hor- over that in the female. This increase in muscle mass is mone for male sexual development during fetal life. also associated with increased protein in the nonmuscle Effect of Testosterone on Development parts of the body. Many of the changes in the skin are due of Adult Primary and Secondary Sexual to deposition of proteins in the skin, and changes in the Characteristics voice also result partly from this protein anabolic function of testosterone. After puberty, increasing amounts of testosterone secre- Because of the great effect that testosterone and other tion cause the penis, scrotum, and testes to enlarge about androgens have on the body’s musculature, synthetic eightfold before the age of 20 years. In addition, testos- androgens are widely used by athletes to improve their terone causes the secondary sexual characteristics of muscular performance. This practice is to be severely the male to develop, beginning at puberty
