Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


are widely used by athletes to improve their terone causes the secondary sexual characteristics of muscular performance. This practice is to be severely the male to develop, beginning at puberty and ending at deprecated because of prolonged harmful effects of maturity. These secondary sexual characteristics, in addi- excess androgens, as discussed in Chapter 85 in relation tion to the sexual organs, distinguish the male from the to sports physiology. Testosterone or synthetic androgens female as follows. are also occasionally used in old age as a “youth hormone” Effect on the Distribution of Body Hair. Testosterone to improve muscle strength and vigor, but with ques- causes growth of hair (1) over the pubis, (2) upward along tionable results. Some studies suggest that testosterone the linea alba of the abdomen sometimes to the umbilicus replacement therapy in elderly men may increase the risk and above, (3) on the face, (4) usually on the chest, and (5) of adverse cardiovascular events. less often on other regions of the body, such as the back. Testosterone Increases Bone Matrix and Causes Calci- It also causes the hair on most other portions of the body um Retention. After the great increase in circulating tes- to become more prolific. tosterone that occurs at puberty (or after prolonged injec- Male Pattern Baldness. Testosterone decreases the tion of testosterone), the bones grow considerably thicker growth of hair on the top of the head; a man who does not and deposit considerable additional calcium salts. Thus, have functional testes does not become bald. However, testosterone increases the total quantity of bone matrix many virile men never become bald because baldness is and causes calcium retention. The increase in bone ma- a result of two factors: first, a genetic background for the trix is believed to result from the general protein anabolic development of baldness and, second, superimposed on function of testosterone plus deposition of calcium salts this genetic background, large quantities of androgenic in response to the increased protein. hormones. When a long- sustained androgenic tumor de- Testosterone has a specific effect on the pelvis to velops in a woman who has the appropriate genetic back- (1) narrow the pelvic outlet, (2) lengthen it, (3) cause a ground, she becomes bald in the same manner as does a funnel- like shape instead of the broad ovoid shape of the man. female pelvis, and (4) greatly increase the strength of the
