Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


bald in the same manner as does a funnel- like shape instead of the broad ovoid shape of the man. female pelvis, and (4) greatly increase the strength of the entire pelvis for load bearing. In the absence of testoster- Effect on the Voice. Testosterone secreted by the testes one, the male pelvis develops into a pelvis that is similar or injected into the body causes hypertrophy of the laryn- to that of the female. geal mucosa and enlargement of the larynx. The effects Because of the ability of testosterone to increase the at first cause a relatively discordant, “cracking” voice that size and strength of bones, it is sometimes used in older gradually changes into the typical adult masculine voice. men to treat osteoporosis. Testosterone Increases Thickness of the Skin and Can When great quantities of testosterone (or any other Contribute to Development of Acne. Testosterone in- androgen) are secreted abnormally in the still-g rowing creases the thickness of the skin over the entire body and child, the rate of bone growth increases markedly, caus- the ruggedness of the subcutaneous tissues. Testosterone ing a spurt in total body height. However, the testosterone also increases the rate of secretion by some or perhaps also causes the epiphyses of the long bones to unite with all of the body’s sebaceous glands. Especially important the shafts of the bones at an early age. Therefore, despite is excessive secretion by the sebaceous glands of the face, the rapidity of growth, this early uniting of the epiphyses which can result in acne. Therefore, acne is one of the prevents the person from growing as tall as he would have most common features of male adolescence when the grown had testosterone not been secreted at all. Even in body is first becoming introduced to increased testoster- normal men, the final adult height is slightly less than that one. After several years of testosterone secretion, the skin which occurs in males castrated before puberty. 1020 Chapter 81 Reproductive and Hormonal Functions of the Male (and Function of the Pineal Gland) Testosterone Increases the Basal Metabolic Rate. In- Some studies suggest that testosterone, like other ste- jection of large quantities of testosterone can increase the roidal hormones, may also exert some rapid, nongenomic basal metabolic rate by as much as 15%. Also, even the effects that do not require synthesis of new proteins. The usual quantity of
