Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


may also exert some rapid, nongenomic basal metabolic rate by as much as 15%. Also, even the effects that do not require synthesis of new proteins. The usual quantity of testosterone secreted by the testes dur- physiological role of these nongenomic actions of testos- ing adolescence and early adult life increases the rate of terone, however, has yet to be determined. metabolism some 5% to 10% above the value that it would CONTROL OF MALE SEXUAL be were the testes not active. This increased metabolic FUNCTIONS BY HORMONES FROM rate is possibly an indirect result of the effect of testoster- THE HYPOTHALAMUS AND ANTERIOR one on protein anabolism, with the increased quantity of PITUITARY GLAND proteins—the enzymes, especially—increasing activities of all cells. A major share of the control of sexual functions in Testosterone Increases Red Blood Cells. When nor- both the male and the female begins with secretion of mal quantities of testosterone are injected into a castrated gonadotropin- releasing hormone (GnRH) by the hypothal- adult, the number of red blood cells per cubic millimeter amus (Figure 81- 10). This hormone stimulates the ante- of blood increases 15% to 20%. Also, the average man has rior pituitary gland to secrete two other hormones called about 700,000 more red blood cells per cubic millimeter gonadotropic hormones: (1) luteinizing hormone (LH) and than the average woman. Despite the strong association of (2) follicle- stimulating hormone (FSH). In turn, LH is the testosterone and increased hematocrit, testosterone does primary stimulus for the secretion of testosterone by the not appear to directly increase erythropoietin levels or have testes, and FSH mainly stimulates spermatogenesis. a direct effect on red blood cell production. The effect of Gonadotropin- Releasing Hormone testosterone to increase red blood cell production may be Increases Secretion of Luteinizing at least partly indirect because of the increased metabolic Hormone and Follicle- Stimulating rate that occurs after testosterone administration. Hormone Effect on Electrolyte and Water Balance. As pointed GnRH is a 10–amino acid peptide secreted by neu- out in Chapter 78, many steroid hormones can increase rons whose cell bodies are located in the arcuate the reabsorption of sodium in the distal tubules of the nuclei of the hypothalamus. The endings of these neu- kidneys. Testosterone also has such an effect, but only to rons terminate mainly in the median eminence of a minor degree in comparison with the adrenal miner- the hypothalamus, where
