Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


kidneys. Testosterone also has such an effect, but only to rons terminate mainly in the median eminence of a minor degree in comparison with the adrenal miner- the hypothalamus, where they release GnRH into the alocorticoids. Nevertheless, after puberty, the blood and hypothalamic- hypophysial portal vascular system. The extracellular fluid volumes of the male in relation to body GnRH is then transported to the anterior pituitary gland weight increase as much as 5% to 10%. in the hypophysial portal blood and stimulates release of BASIC INTRACELLULAR MECHANISM OF the two gonadotropins, LH and FSH. ACTION OF TESTOSTERONE GnRH is secreted intermittently a few minutes at a time once every 1 to 3 hours. The intensity of this hor- Most of the effects of testosterone result basically from mone’s stimulus is determined in two ways: (1) by the fre- increased rate of protein formation in the target cells. quency of these cycles of secretion and (2) by the quantity In the prostate gland, for example, testosterone enters of GnRH released with each cycle. the prostatic cells within a few minutes after secretion. Secretion of LH by the anterior pituitary gland is also Then it is most often converted, under the influence of cyclical, with LH following fairly faithfully the pulsatile the intracellular enzyme 5α- reductase, to dihydrotestos- release of GnRH. In contrast, FSH secretion increases terone which binds with a cytoplasmic “receptor protein.” and decreases only slightly with each fluctuation of This combination migrates to the cell nucleus where GnRH secretion; instead, it changes more slowly over a it binds with a nuclear protein and induces DNA-R NA period of many hours in response to longer- term changes transcription. Within 30 minutes, RNA polymerase has in GnRH. Because of the much closer relation between become activated, and the concentration of RNA begins GnRH secretion and LH secretion, GnRH is also widely to increase in the prostatic cells, which is followed by a known as LH- releasing hormone. progressive increase in cellular protein. After several Gonadotropic Hormones: Luteinizing days, the quantity of DNA in the prostate gland has also Hormone and Follicle- Stimulating increased, and a simultaneous increase in the number of Hormone prostatic cells has occurred. Testosterone stimulates production of proteins virtu- Both of the gonadotropic hormones, LH and FSH, are ally everywhere in the body, although more specifically secreted by the same cells, called gonadotropes, in the affecting the proteins
