Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


virtu- Both of the gonadotropic hormones, LH and FSH, are ally everywhere in the body, although more specifically secreted by the same cells, called gonadotropes, in the affecting the proteins in “target” organs or tissues respon- anterior pituitary gland. In the absence of GnRH secre- sible for the development of primary and secondary male tion from the hypothalamus, the gonadotropes in the sexual characteristics. pituitary gland secrete almost no LH or FSH. 1021 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction CNS proximately in direct proportion to the amount of LH that is available. Mature Leydig cells are normally found in a child’s tes- tes for a few weeks after birth but then disappear until Behavorial effects after the age of about 10 years. However, injection of purified LH into a child at any age or secretion of LH at puberty causes testicular interstitial cells that look like fibroblasts to evolve into functioning Leydig cells. Inhibition of Anterior Pituitary Secretion of Luteiniz- ing and Follicle- Stimulating Hormones by Testoster- one—Negative Feedback Control of Testosterone Se- cretion. Testosterone secreted by the testes in response Hypothalamus to LH has the reciprocal effect of inhibiting anterior pitui- tary secretion of LH (see Figure 81- 10). Most of this inhi- bition probably results from a direct effect of testosterone on the hypothalamus to decrease secretion of GnRH. This effect in turn causes a corresponding decrease in secre- tion of LH and FSH by the anterior pituitary, and the de- GnRH crease in LH reduces secretion of testosterone by the tes- tes. Thus, whenever testosterone secretion becomes too great, this automatic negative feedback effect, operating Anterior through the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary gland, pituitary reduces testosterone secretion back toward the desired operating level. Conversely, too little testosterone allows the hypothalamus to secrete large amounts of GnRH, LH FSH with a corresponding increase in anterior pituitary LH and FSH secretion and consequent increase in testicular testosterone secretion. Testis Regulation of Spermatogenesis by Follicle- Stimulating Hormone and Leydig cell Sertoli Testosterone cell Testosterone Inhibin FSH binds with specific FSH receptors attached to the Sertoli cells in the seminiferous tubules, which causes the Sertoli cells to grow and secrete various spermato- genic substances. Simultaneously, testosterone (and dihydrotestosterone) diffusing into the seminiferous Androgenic effects Spermatogenesis tubules from the Leydig cells in the interstitial spaces also has a strong tropic effect on spermatogenesis. Thus, Figure 81- 10 Feedback regulation of the
