Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the seminiferous Androgenic effects Spermatogenesis tubules from the Leydig cells in the interstitial spaces also has a strong tropic effect on spermatogenesis. Thus, Figure 81- 10 Feedback regulation of the hypothalamic- pituitary- both FSH and testosterone are necessary to initiate testicular axis in males. Stimulatory effects are shown by plus signs, spermatogenesis. and negative feedback inhibitory effects are shown by minus signs. Role of Inhibin in Negative Feedback Control of Sem- CNS, Central nervous system; FSH, follicle-s timulating hormone; GnRH, gonadotropin- releasing hormone; LH, luteinizing hormone. iniferous Tubule Activity. When the seminiferous tu- bules fail to produce sperm, secretion of FSH by the ante- rior pituitary gland increases markedly. Conversely, when LH and FSH are glycoproteins. They exert their effects spermatogenesis proceeds too rapidly, pituitary secretion on their target tissues in the testes mainly by activating of FSH diminishes. The cause of this negative feedback the cyclic adenosine monophosphate second messenger sys- effect on the anterior pituitary is believed to be secretion tem, which in turn activates specific enzyme systems in by the Sertoli cells of still another hormone called inhibin the respective target cells. (see Figure 81- 10). This hormone has a strong direct ef- Regulation of Testosterone Production by Luteinizing fect on the anterior pituitary gland to inhibit FSH secre- Hormone. Testosterone is secreted by the interstitial cells tion. of Leydig in the testes, but only when they are stimulated Inhibin is a glycoprotein, like LH and FSH, with a molec- by LH from the anterior pituitary gland. Furthermore, ular weight between 10,000 and 30,000. It has been isolated the quantity of testosterone that is secreted increases ap- from cultured Sertoli cells. Its potent inhibitory effect on 1022 Chapter 81 Reproductive and Hormonal Functions of the Male (and Function of the Pineal Gland) the anterior pituitary gland provides an important negative A benign prostatic fibroadenoma frequently develops feedback mechanism for control of spermatogenesis, oper- in the prostate in many older men and can cause urinary ating simultaneously with and in parallel to the negative obstruction. This hypertrophy is caused not by testosterone feedback mechanism for control of testosterone secretion. but instead by abnormal overgrowth of prostate tissue. Cancer of the prostate gland is a different problem that Human Chorionic Gonadotropin Secreted accounts for about 2% to 3% of all male deaths. Once cancer by the Placenta During Pregnancy of the prostate gland occurs, the cancerous cells are usu-
