Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Chorionic Gonadotropin Secreted accounts for about 2% to 3% of all male deaths. Once cancer by the Placenta During Pregnancy of the prostate gland occurs, the cancerous cells are usu- Stimulates Testosterone Secretion by the ally stimulated to more rapid growth by testosterone and Fetal Testes are inhibited by removal of both testes so that testosterone cannot be formed. Prostatic cancer usually can be inhibited During pregnancy, the hormone human chorionic gonad- by administration of estrogens. Even some patients who otropin (hCG) is secreted by the placenta and circulates in have prostatic cancer that has already metastasized to al- the mother and in the fetus. This hormone has almost the most all the bones of the body can be successfully treated same effects on the sexual organs as LH. for a few months to years by removal of the testes, estrogen During pregnancy, if the fetus is a male, hCG from the therapy, or both; after initiation of this therapy, the metas- tases usually diminish in size, and the bones partially heal. placenta causes the testes of the fetus to secrete testoster- This treatment does not stop the cancer but slows it and one. This testosterone is critical for promoting formation sometimes greatly diminishes the severe bone pain. of the male sexual organs, as pointed out earlier. We dis- cuss hCG and its functions during pregnancy in greater Hypogonadism in the Male detail in Chapter 83. When the testes of a male fetus are nonfunctional during Puberty and Regulation of Its Onset fetal life, none of the male sexual characteristics develop in the fetus. Instead, female organs are formed. The reason Initiation of the onset of puberty has long been a mystery, for this is that the basic genetic characteristic of the fetus, but it has now been determined that during childhood whether male or female, is to form female sexual organs if the hypothalamus does not secrete significant amounts of there are no sex hormones. However, in the presence of tes- GnRH. One of the reasons for this is that, during child- tosterone, formation of female sexual organs is suppressed hood, the slightest secretion of any sex steroid hormones and male organs are induced instead. exerts a strong inhibitory effect on hypothalamic secre- When a boy loses his testes before puberty, a state of eu- tion of GnRH. Yet, for reasons still not fully understood, nuchism ensues in which
