Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


effect on hypothalamic secre- When a boy loses his testes before puberty, a state of eu- tion of GnRH. Yet, for reasons still not fully understood, nuchism ensues in which he continues to have infantile sex at the time of puberty, the secretion of hypothalamic organs and other infantile sexual characteristics through- GnRH breaks through the childhood inhibition and adult out life. The height of an adult eunuch is slightly greater sexual life begins. than that of a normal man because the bone epiphyses are slow to unite, although the bones are quite thin and the muscles are considerably weaker than those of a normal Male Adult Sexual Life and Male Climacteric. After pu- man. The voice is childlike, there is no loss of hair on the berty, gonadotropic hormones are produced by the male head, and the normal adult masculine hair distribution on pituitary gland for the remainder of life, and at least some the face and elsewhere does not occur. spermatogenesis usually continues until death. Many men, When a man is castrated after puberty, some of his male however, begin to exhibit slowly decreasing sexual func- secondary sexual characteristics revert to those of a child, tions in their late 50s or 60s, especially if they smoke or are and others remain of adult masculine character. The sexual obese and have associated cardiovascular and metabolic organs regress slightly in size but not to a childlike state, disorders, such as hypertension, atherosclerosis, and type and the voice regresses from the bass quality only slightly. 2 diabetes mellitus. There is considerable variation in the However, there is loss of masculine hair production, loss of decline of sexual function, with healthy men continuing to the thick masculine bones, and loss of the musculature of be virile until their 80s and 90s. the virile male. The slow, gradual decline in sexual function is also re- Also in a castrated adult male, sexual desires are decreased lated, in part, to a decrease in testosterone secretion, as but not lost, provided sexual activities have been practiced shown in Figure 81- 9. The decrease in male sexual func- previously. Erection can still occur as before, although with tion is called the male climacteric. less ease, but it is rare that ejaculation can take place, primar- ily because the semen-f orming organs degenerate and there Abnormalities of Male Sexual Function has been a loss of the testosterone-d
