Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


it is rare that ejaculation can take place, primar- ily because the semen-f orming organs degenerate and there Abnormalities of Male Sexual Function has been a loss of the testosterone-d riven psychic desire. The Prostate Gland and Its Abnormalities Some cases of hypogonadism are caused by a genetic inability of the hypothalamus to secrete normal amounts The prostate gland remains relatively small throughout of GnRH. This condition is often associated with a simulta- childhood and begins to grow at puberty under the stimu- neous abnormality of the feeding center of the hypothala- lus of testosterone. This gland reaches an almost stationary mus, causing the person to greatly overeat. Consequently, size by the age of 20 years and remains at this size up to the obesity occurs along with eunuchism. A patient with this age of about 50 years. At that time, in some men it begins to condition is shown in Figure 81- 11; the condition is called involute, along with decreased production of testosterone adiposogenital syndrome, Fröhlich’s syndrome, or hypotha- by the testes. lamic eunuchism. 1023 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Erectile Dysfunction in the Male Erectile dysfunction, also called “impotence,” is character- ized by an inability of the man to develop or maintain an erection of sufficient rigidity for satisfactory sexual inter- course. Neurological problems, such as trauma to the para- sympathetic nerves from prostate surgery, deficient levels of testosterone, and some drugs (e.g., nicotine, alcohol, and antidepressants) can also contribute to erectile dysfunction. In men older than 40 years, erectile dysfunction is most often caused by underlying vascular disease. As discussed previously, adequate blood flow and nitric oxide formation are essential for penile erection. Vascular disease, which can occur as a result of uncontrolled hypertension, diabetes, and atherosclerosis, reduces the ability of the body’s blood vessels, including those in the penis, to dilate. Part of this impaired vasodilation is due to decreased release of nitric oxide. Erectile dysfunction caused by vascular disease can of- ten be successfully treated with phosphodiesterase- 5 (PDE- 5) inhibitors such as sildenafil (Viagra), vardenafil (Levitra), or tadalafil (Cialis). These drugs increase cyclic GMP levels in the erectile tissue by inhibiting the enzyme phosphodies- terase- 5, which rapidly degrades cyclic GMP. Thus, by in- hibiting the degradation of cyclic GMP, the PDE- 5 inhibi- tors enhance and prolong the effect of cyclic GMP to cause erection. Function of the Pineal Gland
