Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Thus, by in- hibiting the degradation of cyclic GMP, the PDE- 5 inhibi- tors enhance and prolong the effect of cyclic GMP to cause erection. Function of the Pineal Gland in Controlling Seasonal Fertility in Some Animals For as long as the pineal gland has been known to exist, myriad functions have been ascribed to it, including (1) enhancing sex, (2) staving off infection, (3) promoting sleep, (4) enhancing mood, and (5) increasing longevity Figure 81- 11 Adiposogenital syndrome in an adolescent male. Note (as much as 10% to 25%). It is known from comparative the obesity and childlike sexual organs. (Courtesy Dr. Leonard Posey.) anatomy that the pineal gland is a vestigial remnant of what was a third eye located high in the back of the head Testicular Tumors and Hypergonadism in the Male in some lower animals. Many physiologists have been Interstitial Leydig cell tumors develop in rare cases in the content with the idea that this gland is a nonfunctional testes. These tumors sometimes produce as much as 100 remnant, but others have claimed for many years that it times the normal quantities of testosterone. When such tu- plays important roles in the control of sexual activities mors develop in young children, they cause rapid growth and reproduction. of the musculature and bones but also early uniting of the Now, after years of research, it appears that the pineal epiphyses, so that the eventual adult height is actually con- gland does indeed play a regulatory role in sexual and repro- siderably less than that which would have been achieved ductive function. In animals that bear their young at certain otherwise. Such interstitial cell tumors also cause excessive seasons of the year and in which the pineal gland has been development of the male sexual organs, all skeletal mus- removed or the nervous circuits to the pineal gland have cles, and other male sexual characteristics. In the adult been sectioned, the normal periods of seasonal fertility are male, small interstitial cell tumors are difficult to diagnose lost. To these animals, such seasonal fertility is important because masculine features are already present. because it allows birth of the offspring at the time of year, Much more common than interstitial Leydig cell tu- usually springtime or early summer, when survival is most mors are tumors of the germinal epithelium. Because ger- likely. The mechanism of this effect is not entirely
