Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Leydig cell tu- usually springtime or early summer, when survival is most mors are tumors of the germinal epithelium. Because ger- likely. The mechanism of this effect is not entirely clear, but minal cells are capable of differentiating into almost any it seems to be the following. type of cell, many of these tumors contain multiple tis- First, the pineal gland is controlled by the amount of sues, such as placental tissue, hair, teeth, bone, skin, and so light or “time pattern” of light seen by the eyes each day. forth, all found together in the same tumorous mass called For example, in the hamster, more than 13 hours of dark- a teratoma. These tumors often secrete few hormones, but ness each day activates the pineal gland, whereas less than if a significant quantity of placental tissue develops in the that amount of darkness fails to activate it, with a critical tumor, it may secrete large quantities of hCG with func- balance between activation and nonactivation. The nervous tions similar to those of LH. Also, estrogenic hormones are pathway involves the passage of light signals from the eyes sometimes secreted by these tumors and cause the condi- to the suprachiasmal nucleus of the hypothalamus and then tion called gynecomastia (overgrowth of the breasts). to the pineal gland, activating pineal secretion. 1024 Chapter 81 Reproductive and Hormonal Functions of the Male (and Function of the Pineal Gland) Second, the pineal gland secretes melatonin and sev- Goldman A, Basaria S: Adverse health effects of androgen use. Mol Cell Endocrinol 464:46, 2018. eral other similar substances. Either melatonin or one of Grinspon RP, Urrutia M, Rey RA: Male central hypogonadism in pae- the other substances is believed to pass either by way of diatrics - the relevance of follicle- stimulating hormone and sertoli the blood or through the fluid of the third ventricle to the cell markers. Eur Endocrinol 14:67, 2018. anterior pituitary gland to decrease gonadotropic hormone Griswold MD: Spermatogenesis: the commitment to meiosis. Physiol secretion. Rev 96:1, 2016. Thus, in the presence of pineal gland secretion, gonado- Hammes SR, Levin ER: Impact of estrogens in males and androgens in tropic hormone secretion is suppressed in some species of females. J Clin Invest 129:1818, 2019. animals, and the gonads become inhibited and even partly Matsushita S, Suzuki K, Murashima A, et al: Regulation of masculini- involuted, which is what presumably occurs during
