Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


J, Amaral FGD: Melatonin as a hormone: new physi- ological and clinical insights. Endocr Rev 39:990, 2018. Darszon A, Nishigaki T, Beltran C, Treviño CL: Calcium channels in the development, maturation, and function of spermatozoa. Physiol Rev 91:1305, 2011. 1025 UNIT XIV CHAPTER 8 2 Female Physiology Before Pregnancy and Female Hormones Female reproductive functions can be divided into two requiring two more cell divisions before it can be fertil- major phases: (1) preparation of the female body for con- ized by a sperm. ception and pregnancy and (2) the period of pregnancy The oogonia in the embryonic ovary complete mitotic itself. This chapter is concerned with preparation of the replication, and the first stage of meiosis starts by the fifth female body for pregnancy, and Chapter 83 presents the month of fetal development. The germ cell mitosis then physiology of pregnancy and childbirth. ceases and no additional oocytes are formed. At birth the ovary contains about 1 to 2 million primary oocytes. PHYSIOLOGIC ANATOMY OF THE The first stage of meiosis starts during fetal develop- FEMALE SEXUAL ORGANS ment but is arrested in the late stage of prophase I until puberty, which usually occurs between ages 10 and 14 in Figures 82- 1 and 82- 2 show the principal organs of the females. The first meiotic division of the oocyte is com- human female reproductive tract, including the ovaries, pleted after puberty. Each oocyte divides into two cells, a fallopian tubes (also called uterine tubes), uterus, and large ovum (secondary oocyte) and a small first polar body. vagina. Reproduction begins with the development of Each of these cells contains 23 duplicated chromosomes. ova in the ovaries. In the middle of each monthly sexual The first polar body may or may not undergo a second cycle, a single ovum is expelled from an ovarian follicle meiotic division and then disintegrates. The ovum under- into the abdominal cavity near the open fimbriated ends goes a second meiotic division, and after the sister chro- of the two fallopian tubes. This ovum then passes through matids separate, there is a pause in meiosis. If the ovum one of the fallopian tubes into the uterus; if it has been is fertilized, the final step in meiosis occurs and the sister fertilized by a sperm, it implants in the uterus, where it chromatids in the ovum go to separate cells. develops into a fetus, a
