Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in meiosis occurs and the sister fertilized by a sperm, it implants in the uterus, where it chromatids in the ovum go to separate cells. develops into a fetus, a placenta, and fetal membranes— When the ovary releases the ovum (ovulation), and if and eventually into a baby. the ovum is fertilized, the final meiosis occurs. Half of the sister chromatids remain in the fertilized ovum, and the OOGENESIS AND FOLLICULAR other half are released in a second polar body, which then DEVELOPMENT IN THE OVARIES disintegrates. At puberty, only about 300,000 oocytes remain in the A developing egg (oocyte) differentiates into a mature ovaries, and only a small percentage of these oocytes egg (ovum) through a series of steps called oogenesis become mature. The many thousands of oocytes that do (Figure 82- 3). During early embryonic development, pri- not mature degenerate. During all the reproductive years mordial germ cells from the dorsal endoderm of the yolk of adult life, between about 13 and 46 years of age on aver- sac migrate along the mesentery of the hindgut to the outer age, only 400 to 500 of the primordial follicles develop surface of the ovary, which is covered by a germinal epi- enough to expel their ova, one each month; the remain- thelium, derived embryologically from the epithelium of der degenerate (i.e., become atretic). At the end of repro- the germinal ridges. During this migration, the germ cells ductive capability (at menopause), only a few primordial divide repeatedly. Once these primordial germ cells reach follicles remain in the ovaries, and even these follicles the germinal epithelium, they migrate into the substance of degenerate soon thereafter. the ovarian cortex and become oogonia or primordial ova. Each primordial ovum then collects around it a layer FEMALE HORMONAL SYSTEM of spindle cells from the ovarian stroma (the supporting tissue of the ovary) and causes them to take on epithelioid The female hormonal system, like that of the male hor- characteristics; these epithelioid-l ike cells are then called monal system, consists of three hierarchies of hormones, granulosa cells. The ovum surrounded by a single layer of as follows: granulosa cells is called a primordial follicle. At this stage, 1. A hypothalamic releasing hormone, called the ovum is still immature and is called a primary oocyte, gonadotropin- releasing hormone (GnRH) 1027 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction 2. The anterior pituitary sex hormones, follicle-
