Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the ovum is still immature and is called a primary oocyte, gonadotropin- releasing hormone (GnRH) 1027 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction 2. The anterior pituitary sex hormones, follicle- MONTHLY OVARIAN CYCLE AND stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing FUNCTION OF GONADOTROPIC hormone (LH), both of which are secreted in HORMONES response to release of GnRH from the hypothal- amus The normal reproductive years of the female are charac- 3. The ovarian hormones, estrogen and progesterone, terized by monthly rhythmic changes in the rates of secre- which are secreted by the ovaries in response to the tion of the female hormones and corresponding physical two female sex hormones from the anterior pitui- changes in the ovaries and other sexual organs. This rhyth- tary gland mic pattern is called the female monthly sexual cycle (or, These various hormones are secreted at drastically dif- less accurately, the menstrual cycle). The duration of the fering rates during different parts of the female monthly cycle averages 28 days. It may be as short as 20 days or as sexual cycle. Figure 82- 4 shows the approximate chang- long as 45 days in some women, although abnormal cycle ing concentrations of the anterior pituitary gonadotropic length is frequently associated with decreased fertility. hormones FSH and LH (bottom two curves) and of the The female sexual cycle has two significant results. ovarian hormones estradiol (estrogen) and progesterone First, only a single ovum is normally released from the (top two curves). ovaries each month, so normally only a single fetus will The amount of GnRH released from the hypothala- begin to grow at a time. Second, the uterine endometrium mus increases and decreases much less drastically dur- is prepared in advance for implantation of the fertilized ing the monthly sexual cycle. It is secreted in short ovum at the required time of the month. pulses averaging once every 90 minutes, as occurs in males. GONADOTROPIC HORMONES AND THEIR EFFECTS ON THE OVARIES Uterine tube The ovarian changes that occur during the sexual cycle depend completely on the gonadotropic hormones FSH and LH, which are secreted by the anterior pituitary Ovary gland. Both FSH and LH are small glycoproteins that have molecular weights of about 30,000. In the absence Uterus of these hormones, the ovaries remain inactive, which Cervix is the case throughout childhood, when almost no pitu- Urinary itary gonadotropic hormones are secreted. At age 9 to
