Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


absence Uterus of these hormones, the ovaries remain inactive, which Cervix is the case throughout childhood, when almost no pitu- Urinary itary gonadotropic hormones are secreted. At age 9 to bladder 12 years, the pituitary begins to secrete progressively Vagina more FSH and LH, which leads to the onset of normal Urethra monthly sexual cycles beginning between the ages of 11 Clitoris and 15 years. This period of change is called puberty, and the time of the first menstrual cycle is called menarche. Rectum During each month of the female sexual cycle, there is a Labium majus Labium minus Anus cyclical increase and decrease of FSH and LH, as shown Figure 82- 1. The female reproductive organs. in the bottom of Figure 82-4 . These cyclical variations Isthmus of Ovarian Ovarian Perimetrium uterine tube ligament stroma Ampullae of fallopian tube Mucosal folds of uterine tube Uterine cavity Fimbriae Endometrium Myometrium Ovarian vessels Uterosacral ligament Cervical canal Ovarian follicles Vagina Isthmus of uterus Corpus luteum Cervix Broad ligament of uterus Vaginal rugae Figure 82- 2. Internal structures of the uterus, ovary, and a uterine tube. 1028 Chapter 82 Female Physiology Before Pregnancy and Female Hormones Oogenesis Follicle Development in Ovary Before birth Primordial germ cell Repeated cell divisions Migrates to ovarian Granulosa cells cortex Oogonium (primordial ovum) Primordial follicle At birth Primary oocyte Primary follicle (1 to 2 million oocytes) (arrested in prophase I) Each month from Meiosis I puberty to menopause First polar body Secondary oocyte Preovulatory (degenerates) (arrested in metaphase II) (mature) follicle Ovulated secondary oocyte Ovulation Sperm Fertilization Meiosis II completed only if fertilized Corpus luteum Second polar body Ovum (zygote) (degenerates) Figure 82- 3. Oogenesis and follicle development. cause cyclical ovarian changes, which are explained in 800 Progesterone 8 the following sections. Estradiol Both FSH and LH stimulate their ovarian target cells by 600 combining with highly specific FSH and LH receptors in 400 4 the ovarian target cell membranes. In turn, the activated receptors increase the cells’ secretion rates and usually the 200 growth and proliferation of the cells as well. Almost all 0 0 these stimulatory effects result from activation of the cyclic 800 adenosine monophosphate second messenger system in the LH cell cytoplasm, which causes formation of protein kinase 600 and multiple phosphorylations of key enzymes that stimu- 400 late sex hormone synthesis, as explained in Chapter 75. FSH 200 0 OVARIAN FOLLICLE GROWTH—THE
