Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


causes formation of protein kinase 600 and multiple phosphorylations of key enzymes that stimu- 400 late sex hormone synthesis, as explained in Chapter 75. FSH 200 0 OVARIAN FOLLICLE GROWTH—THE 0 48 1 2 16 20 24 28 FOLLICULAR PHASE OF THE OVARIAN Days of female sexual cycle CYCLE Figure 82- 4. Approximate plasma concentrations of the gonadotro- pins and ovarian hormones during the normal female sexual cycle. Figure 82- 5 shows the progressive stages of follicu- FSH, Follicle- stimulating hormone; LH, luteinizing hormone. lar growth in the ovaries. When a female child is born, 1029 loidartsE HL dna HSF )lm/gp( )lm/gn( noitaurtsneM noitaluvO (ng/ml) Progesterone UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Preantral follicle Theca Zona pellucida Antrum Antral follicle Ovum Granulosa cells Primary Preovulatory follicle (mature) follicle Primordial follicle Corpus albicans Ovulation Degenerating corpus luteum Corpus luteum Ovum Figure 82- 5. Stages of follicular growth Corona radiata in the ovary, also showing formation of the corpus luteum. each ovum is surrounded by a single layer of granulosa externa, develops into a highly vascular connective tis- cells; the ovum, with this granulosa cell sheath, is called sue capsule that becomes the capsule of the developing a primordial follicle, as shown in the figure. Throughout follicle. childhood, the granulosa cells are believed to provide After the early proliferative phase of growth, which nourishment for the ovum and to secrete an oocyte matu- lasts for a few days, the mass of granulosa cells secretes ration inhibiting factor that keeps the ovum suspended a follicular fluid that contains a high concentration of in its primordial state in the prophase stage of meiotic estrogen, one of the important female sex hormones (dis- division. Then, after puberty, when FSH and LH from the cussed later). Accumulation of this fluid causes an antrum anterior pituitary gland begin to be secreted in significant to appear within the mass of granulosa cells, as shown in quantities, the ovaries (together with some of the follicles Figure 82- 5. within them) begin to grow. The early growth of the primary follicle up to the antral The first stage of follicular growth is moderate enlarge- stage is stimulated mainly by FSH alone. Greatly accel- ment of the ovum, which increases in diameter 2-f old to erated growth then occurs, leading to still larger follicles 3- fold. That stage is followed by growth of additional lay- called vesicular follicles. This accelerated
