Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in diameter 2-f old to erated growth then occurs, leading to still larger follicles 3- fold. That stage is followed by growth of additional lay- called vesicular follicles. This accelerated growth is caused ers of granulosa cells in some of the follicles. These fol- by the following mechanisms: licles are known as primary follicles. 1. Estrogen is secreted into the follicle and causes the granulosa cells to form increasing numbers of FSH Development of Antral and Vesicular Follicles. Dur- receptors, which causes a positive feedback effect ing the first few days of each monthly female sexual cy- because it makes the granulosa cells even more sen- cle, the concentrations of FSH and LH secreted by the sitive to FSH. anterior pituitary gland increase slightly to moderately, 2. The pituitary FSH and the estrogens combine to with the increase in FSH slightly greater than that of LH promote LH receptors on the original granulosa and preceding it by a few days. These hormones, espe- cells, thus allowing LH stimulation to occur in addi- cially FSH, cause accelerated growth of 6 to 12 primary tion to FSH stimulation and creating an even more follicles each month. The initial effect is rapid prolifera- rapid increase in follicular secretion. tion of the granulosa cells, giving rise to many more lay- 3. The increasing estrogens from the follicle plus the ers of these cells. In addition, spindle cells derived from increasing LH from the anterior pituitary gland act the ovary interstitium collect in several layers outside together to cause proliferation of the follicular the- the granulosa cells, giving rise to a second mass of cells cal cells and increase their secretion. called the theca. The theca is divided into two layers. In Once the antral follicles begin to grow, their growth the theca interna, the cells take on epithelioid character- occurs almost explosively. The ovum also enlarges in istics similar to those of the granulosa cells and develop diameter another 3-f old to 4-f old, giving a total ovum the ability to secrete additional steroid sex hormones diameter increase up to 10- fold, or a mass increase of (estrogen and progesterone). The outer layer, the theca 1000- fold. As the follicle enlarges, the ovum remains 1030 Chapter 82 Female Physiology Before Pregnancy and Female Hormones embedded in a mass of granulosa cells located at one pole Luteinizing hormone of the follicle. Only One Follicle Fully
