Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


1030 Chapter 82 Female Physiology Before Pregnancy and Female Hormones embedded in a mass of granulosa cells located at one pole Luteinizing hormone of the follicle. Only One Follicle Fully Matures Each Month, and the Follicular steroid hormones (progesterone) Remainder Undergo Atresia. After a week or more of growth—but before ovulation occurs—one of the follicles begins to outgrow all the others, and the remaining 5 to Proteolytic enzymes Follicular hyperemia 11 developing follicles involute (a process called atresia). (collagenase) and prostaglandin secretion The cause of the atresia is unclear, but it has been pos- tulated to be the following: The large amounts of estrogen from the most rapidly growing follicle act on the hypo- Weakened follicle wall Plasma transudation thalamus to depress further enhancement of FSH secre- into follicle tion by the anterior pituitary gland, in this way blocking further growth of the less well- developed follicles. There- Degeneration Follicle swelling fore, the largest follicle continues to grow because of its of stigma intrinsic positive feedback effects, while all the other fol- licles stop growing and actually involute. This process of atresia is important because it normally Follicle rupture allows only one of the follicles to grow large enough each month to ovulate, which usually prevents more than one Evagination of ovum child from developing with each pregnancy. The single Figure 82- 6. The postulated mechanism of ovulation. follicle reaches a diameter of 1 to 1.5 centimeters at the time of ovulation and is called the mature follicle. phase of excessive estrogen secretion, and (3) initiation Ovulation of secretion of progesterone that ovulation occurs. With- Ovulation in a woman who has a normal 28- day female out the initial preovulatory surge of LH, ovulation will not sexual cycle occurs 14 days after the onset of menstrua- take place. tion. Shortly before ovulation, the protruding outer wall of the follicle swells rapidly, and a small area in the center Initiation of Ovulation. Figure 82- 6 provides a schema of the follicular capsule, called the stigma, protrudes like for the initiation of ovulation, showing the role of the a nipple. In another 30 minutes or so, fluid begins to ooze large quantity of LH secreted by the anterior pituitary from the follicle through the stigma, and about 2 minutes gland. This LH causes rapid secretion of follicular steroid later, the stigma ruptures widely, allowing a more viscous hormones that contain progesterone. Within
