Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


through the stigma, and about 2 minutes gland. This LH causes rapid secretion of follicular steroid later, the stigma ruptures widely, allowing a more viscous hormones that contain progesterone. Within a few hours, fluid, which has occupied the central portion of the folli- two events occur, both of which are necessary for ovula- cle, to evaginate outward. This viscous fluid carries with it tion: the ovum surrounded by a mass of several thousand small 1. The theca externa (i.e., the capsule of the follicle) granulosa cells, called the corona radiata. begins to release proteolytic enzymes from lys- osomes. These enzymes cause dissolution of the A Surge of Luteinizing Hormone Is Necessary for follicular capsular wall and consequent weakening Ovulation. LH is necessary for final follicular growth and of the wall, resulting in further swelling of the entire ovulation. Without this hormone, even when large quan- follicle and degeneration of the stigma. tities of FSH are available, the follicle will not progress to 2. Simultaneously there is rapid growth of new blood the ovulation stage. vessels into the follicle wall. At the same time, pros- About 2 days before ovulation, the rate of secretion taglandins (local hormones that cause vasodilation) of LH by the anterior pituitary gland increases markedly, are secreted into the follicular tissues. rising 6- to 10- fold and peaking about 16 hours before These two effects cause plasma transudation into the ovulation. FSH also increases about 2- fold to 3- fold at follicle, which contributes to follicle swelling. Finally, the the same time, and the FSH and LH act synergistically combination of follicle swelling and simultaneous degen- to cause rapid swelling of the follicle during the last few eration of the stigma causes follicle rupture, with dis- days before ovulation. The LH also has a specific effect on charge of the ovum. the granulosa and theca cells, converting them mainly to progesterone- secreting cells. Therefore, the rate of estro- CORPUS LUTEUM—THE LUTEAL PHASE gen secretion begins to fall about 1 day before ovulation, OF THE OVARIAN CYCLE while increasing amounts of progesterone begin to be secreted. During the first few hours after expulsion of the ovum It is in this environment of (1) rapid growth of the fol- from the follicle, the remaining granulosa and theca licle, (2) diminishing estrogen secretion after a prolonged interna cells change rapidly into lutein cells. They enlarge 1031 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV
