Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


from the follicle, the remaining granulosa and theca licle, (2) diminishing estrogen secretion after a prolonged interna cells change rapidly into lutein cells. They enlarge 1031 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction in diameter two or more times and become filled with the Sertoli cells of the male testes. This hormone inhibits lipid inclusions that give them a yellowish appearance. FSH secretion by the anterior pituitary gland. Low blood This process is called luteinization, and the total mass of concentrations of FSH and LH result, and loss of these cells together is called the corpus luteum, which is shown hormones finally causes the corpus luteum to degener- in Figure 82- 5. A well- developed vascular supply also ate completely, a process called involution of the corpus grows into the corpus luteum. luteum. The granulosa cells in the corpus luteum develop Final involution normally occurs at the end of almost extensive intracellular smooth endoplasmic reticula that exactly 12 days of corpus luteum life, which is around form large amounts of the female sex hormones progester- the 26th day of the normal female sexual cycle, 2 days one and estrogen (with more progesterone than estrogen before menstruation begins. At this time, the sud- during the luteal phase). The theca cells form mainly the den cessation of estrogen, progesterone, and inhibin androgens androstenedione and testosterone rather than secretion by the corpus luteum removes the feedback female sex hormones. However, most of these hormones inhibition of the anterior pituitary gland, allowing it are also converted by the enzyme aromatase in the granu- to begin secreting increasing amounts of FSH and LH losa cells into estrogens. again. FSH and LH initiate the growth of new follicles, The corpus luteum normally grows to about 1.5 centi- beginning a new ovarian cycle. The paucity of proges- meters in diameter, reaching this stage of development 7 terone and estrogen secretion at this time also leads to to 8 days after ovulation. Then the corpus luteum begins menstruation by the uterus, which will be explained to involute and eventually loses its secretory function and later. its yellowish, lipid characteristic about 12 days after ovu- lation, becoming the corpus albicans; during the ensuing SUMMARY few weeks, the corpus albicans is replaced by connective tissue and over months is absorbed. About every 28 days, gonadotropic hormones from the anterior pituitary gland cause 8 to 12 new follicles to Luteinizing Function
