Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is replaced by connective tissue and over months is absorbed. About every 28 days, gonadotropic hormones from the anterior pituitary gland cause 8 to 12 new follicles to Luteinizing Function of Luteinizing Hormone. The begin to grow in the ovaries. One of these follicles finally change of granulosa and theca interna cells into lutein becomes “mature” and ovulates on the 14th day of the cells depends mainly on LH secreted by the anterior pi- cycle. During growth of the follicles, estrogen is mainly tuitary gland. In fact, this function gives LH its name— secreted. “luteinizing,” for “yellowing.” Luteinization also depends After ovulation, the secretory cells of the ovulating on extrusion of the ovum from the follicle. A yet unchar- follicle develop into a corpus luteum that secretes large acterized factor in the follicular fluid, called luteinization- quantities of progesterone and estrogen. After another inhibiting factor, seems to hold the luteinization process 2 weeks, the corpus luteum degenerates, whereupon the in check until after ovulation. ovarian hormones estrogen and progesterone decrease greatly, and menstruation begins. A new ovarian cycle Secretion by the Corpus Luteum: An Additional Func- then follows. tion of Luteinizing Hormone. The corpus luteum is a highly secretory organ, secreting large amounts of pro- FUNCTIONS OF OVARIAN HORMONES— gesterone and estrogen. Once LH (mainly that secreted ESTRADIOL AND PROGESTERONE during the ovulatory surge) has acted on the granulosa and theca cells to cause luteinization, the newly formed The two types of ovarian sex hormones are the estrogens lutein cells go through a sequence of (1) proliferation, (2) and the progestins. By far the most important of the estro- enlargement, and (3) secretion, followed by (4) degen- gens is estradiol, and by far the most important progestin eration. All this occurs in about 12 days. As discussed is progesterone. The estrogens mainly promote prolif- in Chapter 83, another hormone with almost exactly the eration and growth of specific cells in the body that are same properties as LH, chorionic gonadotropin, which is responsible for development of most secondary sexual secreted by the placenta, can act on the corpus luteum to characteristics of females. The progestins function mainly prolong its life—usually maintaining it for at least the first to prepare the uterus for pregnancy and the breasts for 2 to 4 months of pregnancy. lactation. Involution of the Corpus Luteum and Onset of the CHEMISTRY OF THE SEX HORMONES Next Ovarian
