Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


uterus for pregnancy and the breasts for 2 to 4 months of pregnancy. lactation. Involution of the Corpus Luteum and Onset of the CHEMISTRY OF THE SEX HORMONES Next Ovarian Cycle. Estrogen in particular and proges- terone to a lesser extent, secreted by the corpus luteum Estrogens. In the normal nonpregnant female, estrogens during the luteal phase of the ovarian cycle, have strong are secreted in significant quantities only by the ovaries, feedback effects on the anterior pituitary gland to main- although minute amounts are also secreted by the ad- tain low secretory rates of FSH and LH. renal cortices. During pregnancy, large quantities of es- In addition, the lutein cells secrete small amounts of trogens are also secreted by the placenta, as discussed in the hormone inhibin, the same as the inhibin secreted by Chapter 83. 1032 Chapter 82 Female Physiology Before Pregnancy and Female Hormones Only three estrogens are present in significant quan- of each ovarian cycle, when it is secreted by the corpus tities in the plasma of the human female—β- estradiol, luteum. estrone, and estriol, the formulas for which are shown As discussed in Chapter 83, large amounts of proges- in Figure 82- 7. The principal estrogen secreted by the terone are also secreted by the placenta during pregnancy, ovaries is β- estradiol. Small amounts of estrone are also especially after the fourth month of gestation. secreted, but most of this is formed in peripheral tissues from androgens secreted by the adrenal cortices and by Synthesis of the Estrogens and Progestins. Note from ovarian thecal cells. Estriol is a weak estrogen; it is an oxi- the chemical formulas of the estrogens and progesterone dative product derived from both estradiol and estrone, in Figure 82- 7 that they are all steroids. They are synthe- with the conversion occurring mainly in the liver. sized in the ovaries mainly from cholesterol derived from The estrogenic potency of β- estradiol is 12 times that the blood but also to a slight extent from acetyl coenzyme of estrone and 80 times that of estriol. Considering these A, multiple molecules of which can combine to form the relative potencies, one can see that the total estrogenic appropriate steroid nucleus. effect of β- estradiol is usually many times that of the other During synthesis, mainly progesterone and andro- two together. For this reason, β- estradiol is considered the gens (testosterone and androstenedione) are
