Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


estradiol is usually many times that of the other During synthesis, mainly progesterone and andro- two together. For this reason, β- estradiol is considered the gens (testosterone and androstenedione) are syn- major estrogen, although the estrogenic effects of estrone thesized first; then, during the follicular phase of are not negligible. the ovarian cycle, before these two initial hormones can leave the ovaries, almost all the androgens and Progestins. By far the most important of the progestins much of the progesterone are converted into estro- is progesterone. However, small amounts of another pro- gens by the enzyme aromatase in the granulosa cells. gestin, 17α- hydroxyprogesterone, are secreted along with Because the theca cells lack aromatase, they cannot progesterone and have essentially the same effects. Yet, convert androgens to estrogens. However, androgens for practical purposes, progesterone is usually considered diffuse out of the theca cells into the adjacent granu- to be the only important progestin. losa cells, where they are converted to estrogens by In nonpregnant females, progesterone is usually aromatase, the activity of which is stimulated by FSH secreted in significant amounts only during the latter half (Figure 82-8 ). Cholesterol Pregnenolone 17(cid:30)-Hydroxypregnenolone Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) Progesterone 17(cid:30)-Hydroxyprogesterone Androstenedione Testosterone Aromatase O H CH 3 CH 3 OH Estrone (E) (cid:31)-Estradiol (E) 1 2 HO HO Liver Liver H CH 3 OH H Estriol (E) 3 OH Figure 82- 7. Synthesis of the princi- pal female hormones. The chemical structures of the precursor hormones, including progesterone, are shown in HO Figure 78-2 . 1033 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction LH Theca cell L D LDL Granulosa cell L H L ATP AC Cholesterol Cholesterol cAMP Figure 82- 8. Interaction of fol- Pregnenolone Pregnenolone licular theca and granulosa cells for production of estrogens. The theca cells, under the control of Progesterone Progesterone luteinizing hormone (LH), produce androgens that diffuse into the granulosa cells. In mature follicles, follicle- stimulating hormone (FSH) Androgens Androgens ATP AC FSH acts on granulosa cells to stimulate aromatase activity, which converts + the androgens to estrogens. AC, Capillaries/ Aromatase cAMP Adenylate cyclase; ATP, adenosine Extracellular fluid triphosphate; cAMP, cyclic adeno- sine monophosphate; LDL, low- Estrogens density lipoproteins. During the luteal phase of the cycle, far too much pro- FUNCTIONS OF THE ESTROGENS—THEIR gesterone is formed for all of it to be converted, which EFFECTS ON THE PRIMARY AND accounts for the large secretion of progesterone into the
