Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


pro- FUNCTIONS OF THE ESTROGENS—THEIR gesterone is formed for all of it to be converted, which EFFECTS ON THE PRIMARY AND accounts for the large secretion of progesterone into the SECONDARY FEMALE SEX circulating blood at this time. Also, about one-fifteenth CHARACTERISTICS as much testosterone is secreted into the plasma of the female by the ovaries as is secreted into the plasma of the A primary function of the estrogens is to cause cellular male by the testes. proliferation and growth of the tissues of the sex organs and other tissues related to reproduction. Estrogens and Progesterone Are Transported in the Blood Bound to Plasma Proteins. Both estrogens and Effect of Estrogens on the Uterus and External Fe- progesterone are transported in the blood bound main- male Sex Organs. During childhood, estrogens are ly with plasma albumin and with specific estrogen- and secreted only in minute quantities, but at puberty, the progesterone- binding globulins. The binding between quantity secreted in the female under the influence of these hormones and the plasma proteins is loose enough the pituitary gonadotropic hormones increases 20-f old that they are rapidly released to the tissues over a period or more. At this time, the female sex organs change from of 30 minutes or so. those of a child to those of an adult. The ovaries, fallopian tubes, uterus, and vagina all increase several times in size. Functions of the Liver in Estrogen Degradation. The liver Also, the external genitalia enlarge, with deposition of fat conjugates estrogens to form glucuronides and sulfates, and in the mons pubis and labia majora and enlargement of about one-fifth of these conjugated products is excreted in the labia minora. the bile; most of the remainder is excreted in the urine. Also, In addition, estrogens change the vaginal epithelium the liver converts the potent estrogens estradiol and estrone from a cuboidal into a stratified type, which is consider- into the almost totally impotent estrogen estriol. Therefore, ably more resistant to trauma and infection than is the diminished liver function actually increases the activity of es- prepubertal cuboidal cell epithelium. Vaginal infections trogens in the body, sometimes causing hyperestrinism. in children can often be cured by the administration of estrogens simply because of the resulting increased resis- Fate of Progesterone. Within a few minutes after se- tance of the vaginal epithelium. cretion, almost all the progesterone is degraded to other During the
