Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the resulting increased resis- Fate of Progesterone. Within a few minutes after se- tance of the vaginal epithelium. cretion, almost all the progesterone is degraded to other During the first few years after puberty, the size of the steroids that have no progestational effect. As with the uterus increases 2-f old to 3-f old, but more important than estrogens, the liver is especially important for this meta- the increase in uterus size are the changes that take place in bolic degradation. the uterine endometrium under the influence of estrogens. The major end product of progesterone degradation is Estrogens cause marked proliferation of the endometrial pregnanediol. About 10% of the original progesterone is stroma and greatly increased development of the endome- excreted in the urine in this form. Therefore, one can esti- trial glands, which will later aid in providing nutrition to mate the rate of progesterone formation in the body from the implanted ovum. These effects are discussed later in the rate of this excretion. the chapter in connection with the endometrial cycle. 1034 Chapter 82 Female Physiology Before Pregnancy and Female Hormones Effect of Estrogens on the Fallopian Tubes. The estro- bone fracture, especially fracture of the vertebrae, many gens’ effects on the mucosal lining of the fallopian tubes postmenopausal women are treated prophylactically with are similar to their effects on the uterine endometrium. estrogen replacement to prevent the osteoporotic effects. They cause the glandular tissues of this lining to prolifer- ate, and especially important, they cause the number of Estrogens Slightly Increase Protein Deposition. Estro- ciliated epithelial cells that line the fallopian tubes to in- gens cause a slight increase in total body protein, which is ev- crease. Also, activity of the cilia is considerably enhanced. idenced by a slight positive nitrogen balance when estrogens These cilia always beat toward the uterus, which helps are administered. This effect mainly results from the growth- propel the fertilized ovum in that direction. promoting effect of estrogen on the sexual organs, the bones, and a few other tissues of the body. The enhanced protein Effect of Estrogens on the Breasts. The primordial deposition caused by testosterone is much more general and breasts of females and males are exactly alike. In fact, un- much more powerful than that caused by estrogens. der the influence of appropriate hormones, the masculine breast during the first 2 decades of life can develop suffi- Estrogens
