Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fact, un- much more powerful than that caused by estrogens. der the influence of appropriate hormones, the masculine breast during the first 2 decades of life can develop suffi- Estrogens Increase Body Metabolism and Fat Deposi- ciently to produce milk in the same manner as the female tion. Estrogens increase the whole- body metabolic rate breast. slightly, but only about one-third as much as the increase Estrogens cause (1) development of the stromal tissues caused by testosterone. Estrogens also cause deposition of the breasts, (2) growth of an extensive ductile system, of increased quantities of fat in the subcutaneous tissues. and (3) deposition of fat in the breasts. The lobules and As a result, the percentage of body fat in females is con- alveoli of the breast develop to a slight extent under the siderably greater than that in the males whose bodies con- influence of estrogens alone, but it is progesterone and tain more protein. In addition to deposition of fat in the prolactin that ultimately complete the growth and func- breasts and subcutaneous tissues, estrogens cause deposi- tion of these structures. tion of fat in the buttocks and thighs, which is characteris- In summary, the estrogens initiate growth of the tic of the feminine figure. breasts and of the milk- producing apparatus. They are also responsible for the characteristic growth and external Estrogens Have Little Effect on Hair Distribution. Es- appearance of the mature female breast. However, they do trogens do not greatly affect hair distribution. However, not complete the job of converting the breasts into milk- hair does develop in the pubic region and in the axillae producing organs. after puberty. Androgens formed in increased quantities by the female adrenal glands after puberty are mainly re- Effect of Estrogens on the Skeleton. Estrogens inhibit sponsible for this development of hair. osteoclastic activity in the bones and therefore stimulate bone growth. As discussed in Chapter 80, at least part of Effect of Estrogens on the Skin. Estrogens cause the this effect is due to stimulation of osteoprotegerin, which is skin to develop a texture that is soft and usually smooth, also called osteoclastogenesis inhibitory factor, a cytokine but even so, the skin of a woman is thicker than that of a that inhibits bone resorption. child or a castrated female. Estrogens also cause the skin At puberty, when the female enters her reproduc- to become more vascular, which
