Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that of a that inhibits bone resorption. child or a castrated female. Estrogens also cause the skin At puberty, when the female enters her reproduc- to become more vascular, which is often associated with tive years, her growth in height becomes rapid for sev- increased warmth of the skin and greater bleeding of cut eral years. However, estrogens also cause uniting of the surfaces than is observed in men. epiphyses with the shafts of the long bones. This effect of estrogen in the female is much stronger than the similar Effect of Estrogens on Electrolyte Balance. The chemi- effect of testosterone in the male. As a result, growth of cal similarity of estrogenic hormones to adrenocortical the female usually ceases several years earlier than growth hormones has been discussed previously. Estrogens, like of the male. A female eunuch who is devoid of estrogen aldosterone and some other adrenocortical hormones, production usually grows several inches taller than a nor- cause sodium and water retention by the kidney tubules. mal mature female because her epiphyses do not unite at This effect of estrogens is normally slight and rarely of sig- the normal time. nificance, but during pregnancy the tremendous forma- tion of estrogens by the placenta may contribute to body Osteoporosis of the Bones Caused by Estrogen De- fluid retention, as discussed in Chapter 83. ficiency in Old Age. After menopause, almost no estro- gens are secreted by the ovaries. This estrogen deficiency FUNCTIONS OF PROGESTERONE leads to (1) increased osteoclastic activity in the bones, (2) decreased bone matrix, and (3) decreased deposition Progesterone Promotes Secretory Changes in the of bone calcium and phosphate. In some women this ef- Uterus. A major function of progesterone is to promote fect is extremely severe, and the resulting condition is secretory changes in the uterine endometrium during the called osteoporosis, described in Chapter 80. Because latter half of the monthly female sexual cycle, thus pre- osteoporosis can greatly weaken the bones and lead to paring the uterus for implantation of the fertilized ovum. 1035 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction This function is discussed later in connection with the en- MONTHLY ENDOMETRIAL CYCLE AND dometrial cycle of the uterus. MENSTRUATION In addition to this effect on the endometrium, proges- terone decreases the frequency and intensity of uterine Associated with the monthly cyclical production of contractions, thereby helping to prevent expulsion of the estrogens and
