Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


effect on the endometrium, proges- terone decreases the frequency and intensity of uterine Associated with the monthly cyclical production of contractions, thereby helping to prevent expulsion of the estrogens and progesterone by the ovaries is an endo- implanted ovum. metrial cycle in the lining of the uterus that operates through the following stages: (1) proliferation of the Progesterone Promotes Secretion by the Fallopian uterine endometrium; (2) development of secretory Tubes. Progesterone also promotes increased secretion changes in the endometrium; and (3) desquamation of by the mucosal lining of the fallopian tubes. These secre- the endometrium, which is known as menstruation. The tions are necessary for nutrition of the fertilized, dividing various phases of this endometrial cycle are shown in ovum as it traverses the fallopian tube before implanta- Figure 82-9 . See Video 82-1 . tion. Proliferative Phase (Estrogen Phase) of the Endome- Progesterone Promotes Development of the Breasts. trial Cycle Occurs Before Ovulation. At the beginning Progesterone promotes development of the lobules and of each monthly cycle, most of the endometrium has alveoli of the breasts, causing the alveolar cells to pro- been desquamated by menstruation. After menstrua- liferate, enlarge, and become secretory. However, pro- tion, only a thin layer of endometrial stroma remains, and gesterone does not cause the alveoli to secrete milk; as the only epithelial cells that are left are those located in discussed in Chapter 83, milk is secreted only after the the remaining deeper portions of the glands and crypts prepared breast is further stimulated by prolactin from of the endometrium. Under the influence of estrogens, se- the anterior pituitary gland. creted in increasing quantities by the ovary during the Progesterone also causes the breasts to swell. Part of first part of the monthly ovarian cycle, the stromal cells this swelling is due to the secretory development in the and the epithelial cells proliferate rapidly. The endome- lobules and alveoli, but part also results from increased trial surface is re-e pithelialized within 4 to 7 days after the fluid in the tissue. beginning of menstruation. FOLLICULAR PHASE OVULATION LUTEAL PHASE Progesterone Estradiol MENSTRUAL PHASE PROLIFERATIVE PHASE SECRETORY PHASE 0 2 4 68 1 0 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 Time (days) Figure 82- 9. Phases of endometrial growth and menstruation during each monthly female sexual cycle. 1036 Chapter 82 Female Physiology Before Pregnancy and Female Hormones Then, during the next
