Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


(days) Figure 82- 9. Phases of endometrial growth and menstruation during each monthly female sexual cycle. 1036 Chapter 82 Female Physiology Before Pregnancy and Female Hormones Then, during the next week and a half, before ovulation the 24 hours preceding the onset of menstruation, the occurs, the endometrium increases greatly in thickness, tortuous blood vessels leading to the mucosal layers of the owing to increasing numbers of stromal cells and to pro- endometrium become vasospastic, presumably because gressive growth of the endometrial glands and new blood of some effect of involution, such as release of a vaso- vessels into the endometrium. At the time of ovulation, constrictor material—possibly one of the vasoconstrictor the endometrium is 3 to 5 millimeters thick. types of prostaglandins that are present in abundance at The endometrial glands, especially those of the cervi- this time. cal region, secrete thin, stringy mucus. The mucus strings The vasospasm, the decrease in nutrients to the endo- actually align themselves along the length of the cervi- metrium, and the loss of hormonal stimulation initiate cal canal, forming channels that help guide sperm in the necrosis in the endometrium, especially of the blood proper direction from the vagina into the uterus. vessels. As a result, blood at first seeps into the vascu- lar layer of the endometrium and the hemorrhagic areas Secretory Phase (Progestational Phase) of the Endo- grow rapidly over a period of 24 to 36 hours. Gradually, metrial Cycle Occurs After Ovulation. During most of the necrotic outer layers of the endometrium separate the latter half of the monthly cycle, after ovulation has from the uterus at the sites of the hemorrhages until, occurred, progesterone and estrogen together are se- about 48 hours after the onset of menstruation, all the creted in large quantities by the corpus luteum. The es- superficial layers of the endometrium have desqua- trogens cause slight additional cellular proliferation in mated. The mass of desquamated tissue and blood in the the endometrium during this phase of the cycle, whereas uterine cavity, plus contractile effects of prostaglandins progesterone causes marked swelling and secretory de- or other substances in the decaying desquamate, all act- velopment of the endometrium. The glands increase in ing together, initiate uterine contractions that expel the tortuosity, and excess secretory substances accumulate in uterine contents. the glandular epithelial cells. In addition, the cytoplasm During normal menstruation, approximately 40 mil- of the stromal cells
