Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that expel the tortuosity, and excess secretory substances accumulate in uterine contents. the glandular epithelial cells. In addition, the cytoplasm During normal menstruation, approximately 40 mil- of the stromal cells increases, lipid and glycogen deposits liliters of blood and an additional 35 milliliters of serous increase greatly in the stromal cells, and the blood sup- fluid are lost. The menstrual fluid is normally nonclotting ply to the endometrium further increases in proportion because a fibrinolysin is released along with the necrotic to the developing secretory activity, with the blood vessels endometrial material. If heavy bleeding occurs from the becoming highly tortuous. At the peak of the secretory uterine surface, the quantity of fibrinolysin may be insuffi- phase, about 1 week after ovulation, the endometrium has cient to prevent clotting, resulting in the passage of blood a thickness of 5 to 6 millimeters. clots. Menstrual blood clots are not uncommon and usu- The purpose of all these endometrial changes is to pro- ally occur during the first couple of days of menstruation, duce a highly secretory endometrium that contains large when bleeding is greatest; however, excessive bleeding amounts of stored nutrients to provide appropriate con- and large clots during menstruation can be clinical evi- ditions for implantation of a fertilized ovum during the dence of uterine disease. latter half of the monthly cycle. From the time a fertilized Within 4 to 7 days after menstruation starts, the loss of ovum enters the uterine cavity from the fallopian tube blood ceases because, by this time, the endometrium has (which occurs 3 to 4 days after ovulation) until the time become re- epithelialized. the ovum implants (7 to 9 days after ovulation), the uter- ine secretions, called “uterine milk,” provide nutrition for Leukorrhea During Menstruation. During menstrua- the early dividing ovum. Then, once the ovum implants in tion, large numbers of leukocytes are released, along with the endometrium, the trophoblastic cells on the surface the necrotic material and blood. A substance liberated by of the implanting ovum (in the blastocyst stage) begin the endometrial necrosis likely causes this outflow of leu- to digest the endometrium and absorb the endometrial kocytes. As a result of the presence of these leukocytes stored substances, thus making great quantities of nutri- and possibly other factors, the uterus is highly resistant to ents available to the early implanting embryo. infection during menstruation, even though the endome- trial surfaces
