Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


great quantities of nutri- and possibly other factors, the uterus is highly resistant to ents available to the early implanting embryo. infection during menstruation, even though the endome- trial surfaces are denuded. This resistance to infection is Menstruation. If the ovum is not fertilized, about 2 days of extreme protective value. before the end of the monthly cycle, the corpus luteum in the ovary involutes, and the ovarian hormones (estrogens REGULATION OF FEMALE MONTHLY and progesterone) decrease to low levels of secretion, as RHYTHM—INTERPLAY BETWEEN OVAR- shown in Figure 82- 9. Menstruation follows. IAN AND HYPOTHALAMIC- PITUITARY Menstruation is caused by the reduction of estrogens HORMONES and progesterone, especially progesterone, at the end of the monthly ovarian cycle. The first effect is decreased Now that we have presented the major cyclical changes stimulation of the endometrial cells by these two hor- that occur during the monthly female sexual cycle, we can mones, followed rapidly by involution of the endome- explain the basic rhythmic mechanism that causes the trium to about 65% of its previous thickness. Then, during cyclical variations. 1037 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction THE HYPOTHALAMUS SECRETES GNRH, moderate amounts. Multiple neuronal centers in the WHICH STIMULATES THE ANTERIOR higher brain’s “limbic” system (the system for psychic PITUITARY GLAND TO SECRETE LH AND control) transmit signals into the hypothalamus to modify FSH the intensity of GnRH release and the frequency of the pulses, thus providing a partial explanation of why psy- As discussed in Chapter 75, secretion of most of the chic factors often modify female sexual function. anterior pituitary hormones is controlled by “releas- ing hormones” formed in the hypothalamus and then NEGATIVE FEEDBACK EFFECTS OF transported to the anterior pituitary gland by way of ESTROGEN AND PROGESTERONE TO the hypothalamic- hypophysial portal system. In the DECREASE LH AND FSH SECRETION case of the gonadotropins, one releasing hormone, GnRH, is important. This hormone has been purified Estrogen in small amounts has a strong inhibitory effect and has been found to be a decapeptide with the fol- on production of LH and FSH. Also, when progesterone is lowing formula: available, the inhibitory effect of estrogen is multiplied, even though progesterone by itself has little effect (Figure 82- 11). Glu‐His‐Trp‐Ser‐Tyr‐Gly‐Leu‐Arg‐Pro‐Gly‐NH 2 These feedback effects seem to operate mainly on the ante- rior pituitary gland directly, but they also operate to a lesser Intermittent, Pulsatile Secretion of GnRH by
