Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


11). Glu‐His‐Trp‐Ser‐Tyr‐Gly‐Leu‐Arg‐Pro‐Gly‐NH 2 These feedback effects seem to operate mainly on the ante- rior pituitary gland directly, but they also operate to a lesser Intermittent, Pulsatile Secretion of GnRH by the Hy- extent on the hypothalamus to decrease secretion of GnRH, pothalamus Stimulates Pulsatile Release of LH From especially by altering the frequency of the GnRH pulses. the Anterior Pituitary Gland. The hypothalamus does not secrete GnRH continuously but instead secretes it Inhibin From the Corpus Luteum Inhibits FSH and LH in pulses lasting 5 to 25 minutes that occur every 1 to 2 Secretion. In addition to the feedback effects of estro- hours. The lower curve in Figure 82- 10 shows the elec- gen and progesterone, other hormones are involved, es- trical pulsatile signals in the hypothalamus that cause the pecially inhibin, which is secreted along with the steroid hypothalamic pulsatile output of GnRH. sex hormones by the granulosa cells of the ovarian corpus It is intriguing that when GnRH is infused continuously luteum in the same way that Sertoli cells secrete inhibin so that it is available all the time rather than in pulses, in the male testes (see Figure 82- 11). This hormone has its ability to cause release of LH and FSH by the anterior the same effect in the female as in the male—it inhibits pituitary gland is lost. Therefore, the pulsatile nature of secretion of FSH and, to a lesser extent, LH by the ante- GnRH release is essential to its function. rior pituitary gland. Therefore, inhibin may be especially The pulsatile release of GnRH also causes intermittent important in causing the decrease in secretion of FSH and output of LH secretion about every 90 minutes, which is LH at the end of the monthly female sexual cycle. shown by the upper curve in Figure 82- 10. POSITIVE FEEDBACK EFFECT OF Hypothalamic Centers for Release of Gonadotropin- ESTROGEN BEFORE OVULATION—THE Releasing Hormone. The neuronal activity that causes PREOVULATORY LUTEINIZING HORMONE pulsatile release of GnRH in humans occurs primarily SURGE in the mediobasal hypothalamus, especially in the arcu- ate nuclei of this area. Neurons located in the preoptic The anterior pituitary gland secretes greatly increased area of the anterior hypothalamus also secrete GnRH in amounts of LH for 1 to 2 days beginning 24 to 48 hours 100 LH 80 2000 60 Figure 82- 10. Shown is a pulsatile change in luteinizing hormone (LH) in
