Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of LH for 1 to 2 days beginning 24 to 48 hours 100 LH 80 2000 60 Figure 82- 10. Shown is a pulsatile change in luteinizing hormone (LH) in the 40 peripheral circulation of a pentobarbital- 0 anesthetized ovariectomized rhesus mon- 1000 key (red line) and a minute by minute recording of multi- unit electrical activity (MUA) in the mediobasal hypothalamus MUA (blue line). (Data from Wilson RC, Kesner JS, Kaufman JM, et al: Central electrophys- iologic correlates of pulsatile luteinizing 0 120 240 360 480 hormone secretion. Neuroendocrinology 39:256, 1984.) Minutes 1038 )AUM( ytivitca lacirtcele tinu-itluM )nim/sekips( (ng/ml) Luteinizing hormone (LH) Chapter 82 Female Physiology Before Pregnancy and Female Hormones CNS rapidly accelerating secretion of ovarian estrogens. Dur- ing this period, secretions of FSH and LH by the anterior pituitary gland are at first slightly suppressed. Secretion of LH then increases abruptly 6- fold to 8- fold, and secretion Behavioral effects of FSH increases about 2- fold. The greatly increased LH secretion causes ovulation to occur. The cause of this abrupt surge in LH secretion is not known. However, the following explanations are possible: 1. It has been suggested that at this point in the cycle, estrogen has a peculiar positive feedback effect of stimulating pituitary secretion of LH and, to a lesser extent, FSH (see Figure 82- 11), which is in sharp contrast to the normal negative feedback effect of Hypothalamus estrogen that occurs during the remainder of the fe- male monthly cycle. 2. The granulosa cells of the follicles begin to secrete small but increasing quantities of progesterone a day or so before the preovulatory LH surge, and it GnRH has been suggested that this secretion might be the factor that stimulates the excess LH secretion. Without this normal preovulatory surge of LH, ovula- Anterior tion will not occur. pituitary FEEDBACK OSCILLATION OF THE HYPOTHALAMIC- PITUITARY- OVARIAN SYSTEM LH FSH Now that we have discussed the interrelations of the dif- ferent components of the female hormonal system, we Ovary can explain the feedback oscillation that controls the Activin rhythm of the female sexual cycle. It seems to operate in Theca approximately the following sequence of three events. cell Androgens Inhibin 1. Postovulatory secretion of the ovarian hormones Granulosa and depression of the pituitary gonadotropins. Be- cell tween ovulation and the beginning of menstrua- Progestins Estrogens tion, the corpus luteum secretes large quantities of progesterone and estrogen,
