Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


hormones Granulosa and depression of the pituitary gonadotropins. Be- cell tween ovulation and the beginning of menstrua- Progestins Estrogens tion, the corpus luteum secretes large quantities of progesterone and estrogen, as well as inhibin. All these hormones together have a combined negative Target tissues feedback effect on the anterior pituitary gland and hypothalamus, causing suppression of FSH and LH Figure 82-1 1. Feedback regulation of the hypothalamic-p ituitary- secretion and decreasing them to their lowest levels ovarian axis in females. Stimulatory effects are shown by plus signs about 3 to 4 days before the onset of menstruation. (+); negative feedback inhibitory effects are shown by minus signs (−). Estrogens and progestins exert negative and positive feedback These effects are shown in Figure 82- 4. effects on the anterior pituitary and hypothalamus, depending on the 2. Follicular growth phase. Two to 3 days before men- stage of the ovarian cycle. Inhibin has a negative feedback effect on struation, the corpus luteum has regressed to al- the anterior pituitary, whereas activin has the opposite effect, stimu- most total involution and secretion of estrogen, lating follicle-s timulating hormone (FSH) secretion by the anterior pi- progesterone, and inhibin from the corpus luteum tuitary. CNS, Central nervous system; GnRH, gonadotropin- releasing decreases to a low ebb, which releases the hypo- hormone; LH, luteinizing hormone. thalamus and anterior pituitary from the negative feedback effect of these hormones. Therefore, a before ovulation. This effect is demonstrated in Figure day or so later, at about the time that menstrua- 82- 4. The figure shows a much smaller preovulatory surge tion begins, pituitary secretion of FSH begins to of FSH as well. increase again, as much as 2- fold; then, several days Experiments have shown that estrogen infusion into a after menstruation begins, LH secretion increases female above a critical rate for 2 to 3 days during the latter slightly as well. These hormones initiate new ovar- part of the first half of the ovarian cycle will cause rap- ian follicle growth and a progressive increase in idly accelerating growth of the ovarian follicles, as well as the secretion of estrogen, reaching a peak estrogen 1039 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction secretion at about 12.5 to 13 days after the onset 60 of the new female monthly sexual cycle. During the 50 first 11 to 12 days of this follicle growth, the rates of pituitary secretion of
