Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


days after the onset 60 of the new female monthly sexual cycle. During the 50 first 11 to 12 days of this follicle growth, the rates of pituitary secretion of the gonadotropins FSH and 40 LH decrease slightly because of the negative feed- Female back effect, mainly of estrogen, on the anterior pitu- Menopause 30 itary gland. Then there is a sudden, marked increase in the secretion of LH and, to a lesser extent, FSH. 20 This increased secretion is the preovulatory surge of LH and FSH, which is followed by ovulation. 10 Puberty Male 3. The preovulatory surge of LH and FSH causes ovu- lation. About 11.5 to 12 days after the onset of the 0 monthly cycle, the decline in FSH and LH secretion 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 comes to an abrupt halt. The high level of estrogens Age (yr) at this time (or the beginning of progesterone se- Figure 82- 12. Total rates of secretion of gonadotropic hormones cretion by the follicles) is believed to cause a posi- throughout the sexual lives of female and male human beings, show- ing an especially abrupt increase in gonadotropic hormones at meno- tive feedback stimulatory effect on the anterior pi- pause in the female. tuitary, as explained earlier, which leads to a large surge in the secretion of LH and, to a lesser extent, FSH. Whatever the cause of this preovulatory LH 400 and FSH surge, the great excess of LH leads to both ovulation and subsequent development of and se- 300 Puberty cretion by the corpus luteum. Thus, the hormonal system begins its new round of secretions until the Menopause 200 next instance of ovulation. Anovulatory Cycles—Sexual Cycles at 100 Puberty If the preovulatory surge of LH is not of sufficient magni- 0 tude, ovulation will not occur, and the cycle is said to be 0 12 13 40 50 60 “anovulatory.” The phases of the sexual cycle continue, but Age (yr) they are altered in the following ways: Figure 82- 13. Estrogen secretion throughout the sexual life of the 1. Lack of ovulation causes failure of development of female human being. the corpus luteum, so there is almost no secretion of progesterone during the latter portion of the cy- In the female, as in the male, the infantile pituitary gland cle. and ovaries are capable of full function if they are appropri- 2.
