Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the latter portion of the cy- In the female, as in the male, the infantile pituitary gland cle. and ovaries are capable of full function if they are appropri- 2. The cycle is shortened by several days, but the ately stimulated. However, as is also true in the male, and for rhythm continues. reasons that are not understood, the hypothalamus does not Therefore, it is likely that progesterone is not required secrete significant quantities of GnRH during childhood. for maintenance of the cycle, although it can alter the Experiments have shown that the hypothalamus is capable cycle’s rhythm. of secreting this hormone, but the appropriate signal from The first few cycles after the onset of puberty are some other area of the brain to cause secretion is lacking. usually anovulatory, as are the cycles occurring several Therefore, it is now believed that the onset of puberty is ini- months to years before menopause, presumably because tiated by some maturation process that occurs elsewhere in the LH surge is not potent enough at these times to cause the brain, perhaps somewhere in the limbic system. ovulation. Figure 82- 13 shows (1) the increasing levels of estrogen secretion at puberty, (2) the cyclical variation during the PUBERTY AND MENARCHE monthly sexual cycle, (3) the further increase in estrogen secretion during the first few years of reproductive life, (4) Puberty means the onset of adult sexual life, and men- the progressive decrease in estrogen secretion toward the arche means the beginning of the cycle of menstruation. end of reproductive life, and, finally, (5) almost no estrogen The period of puberty is caused by a gradual increase in or progesterone secretion beyond menopause. gonadotropic hormone secretion by the pituitary, begin- ning in about the eighth year of life, as shown in Figure MENOPAUSE 82- 12, and usually culminating in the onset of puberty and menstruation between ages 10 and 14 years in girls At age 40 to 50 years, the sexual cycle usually becomes (average, 12 years). irregular, and ovulation often fails to occur. After a few 1040 eniru ni detercxe snegortsE sniportodanog yraniru latoT )rh 42/g(cid:31)( )rh 42/stinu( Chapter 82 Female Physiology Before Pregnancy and Female Hormones months to a few years, the cycle ceases altogether, as because the epiphyses do not unite with the shafts as early shown in Figure 82- 13. The period during which the as they do in a
