Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cycle ceases altogether, as because the epiphyses do not unite with the shafts as early shown in Figure 82- 13. The period during which the as they do in a normal woman. Consequently, the female cycle ceases and the female sex hormones diminish to eunuch is essentially as tall as or perhaps even slightly taller than her male counterpart of similar genetic background. almost none is called menopause. When the ovaries of a fully developed woman are re- The cause of menopause is “burning out” of the ovaries. moved, the sexual organs regress to some extent so that the Throughout a woman’s reproductive life, about 400 of the uterus becomes almost infantile in size, the vagina becomes primordial follicles grow into mature follicles and ovulate, smaller, and the vaginal epithelium becomes thin and easily and hundreds of thousands of ova degenerate. At about damaged. The breasts atrophy and become pendulous, and age 45 years, only a few primordial follicles remain to be the pubic hair becomes thinner. The same changes occur in stimulated by FSH and LH and, as shown in Figure 82- women after menopause. 13, the production of estrogens by the ovaries decreases Irregularity of Menses, and Amenorrhea Caused by Hy- as the number of primordial follicles approaches zero. pogonadism. As pointed out in the preceding discussion When estrogen production falls below a critical value, of menopause, the quantity of estrogens produced by the the estrogens can no longer inhibit the production of FSH ovaries must rise above a critical value to cause rhythmic and LH. Instead, as shown in Figure 82- 12, the gonado- sexual cycles. Consequently, in hypogonadism or when the gonads are secreting small quantities of estrogens as a result tropins FSH and LH (mainly FSH) are produced after of other factors, such as hypothyroidism, the ovarian cycle menopause in large and continuous quantities, but as the often does not occur normally. Instead, several months may remaining primordial follicles become atretic, production elapse between menstrual periods, or menstruation may of estrogens by the ovaries falls virtually to zero. cease altogether (amenorrhea). Prolonged ovarian cycles At the time of menopause, a woman must readjust are frequently associated with failure of ovulation, presuma- her life from one that has been physiologically stimulated bly because of insufficient secretion of LH at the time of the by estrogen and progesterone production to one devoid preovulatory surge of LH, which
