Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that has been physiologically stimulated bly because of insufficient secretion of LH at the time of the by estrogen and progesterone production to one devoid preovulatory surge of LH, which is necessary for ovulation. of these hormones. The loss of estrogens often causes Hypersecretion by the Ovaries. Extreme hypersecretion marked physiological changes in the function of the body, of ovarian hormones by the ovaries is a rare clinical entity including (1) “hot flushes” characterized by extreme because excessive secretion of estrogens automatically de- flushing of the skin, (2) psychic sensations of dyspnea, creases production of gonadotropins by the pituitary, which (3) irritability, (4) fatigue, (5) anxiety, and (6) decreased limits production of ovarian hormones. Consequently, hy- persecretion of feminizing hormones is usually recognized strength and calcification of bones throughout the body. clinically only when a feminizing tumor develops. These symptoms are of sufficient magnitude in about 15% A rare granulosa cell tumor can develop in an ovary; de- of women to warrant treatment. Daily administration of velopment of this tumor occurs more often after menopause estrogen in small quantities usually reverses the symp- than before menopause. These tumors secrete large quanti- toms, and by gradually decreasing the dose, postmeno- ties of estrogens, which exert the usual estrogenic effects, pausal women may avoid severe symptoms. including hypertrophy of the uterine endometrium and ir- Large clinical trials have provided evidence that admin- regular bleeding from this endometrium. In fact, bleeding is istration of estrogen after menopause, although ameliorat- often the first and only indication that such a tumor exists. ing many of the symptoms of menopause, may increase the risk for cardiovascular disease. As a result, hormone FEMALE SEXUAL ACT replacement therapy with estrogen is no longer routinely prescribed for postmenopausal women. Some studies, however, suggest that estrogen therapy may actually reduce Stimulation of the Female Sexual Act. As is true in the risk for cardiovascular disease if it is begun early in the the male sexual act, successful performance of the female postmenopausal years. Therefore, it is currently recom- sexual act depends on both psychic stimulation and local mended that postmenopausal women who are considering sexual stimulation. hormone replacement therapy should discuss with their Thinking sexual thoughts can lead to female sexual physicians whether the benefits outweigh the risks. desire, and this aids greatly in the performance of the female sexual act. Such desire is based on psychologi- Abnormalities of Secretion
