Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sexual physicians whether the benefits outweigh the risks. desire, and this aids greatly in the performance of the female sexual act. Such desire is based on psychologi- Abnormalities of Secretion by the Ovaries cal and physiological drive, although sexual desire does increase in proportion to the level of sex hormones Hypogonadism—Reduced Secretion by the Ovaries. secreted. Desire also changes during the monthly sexual Less than normal secretion by the ovaries can result from cycle, reaching a peak near the time of ovulation, probably poorly formed ovaries, lack of ovaries, or genetically abnor- because of the high levels of estrogen secretion during the mal ovaries that secrete the wrong hormones because of preovulatory period. missing enzymes in the secretory cells. When ovaries are Local sexual stimulation in women occurs in more or absent from birth or when they become nonfunctional be- fore puberty, female eunuchism occurs. In this condition the less the same manner as in men because massage and other usual secondary sexual characteristics do not appear, and types of stimulation of the vulva, vagina, and other perineal the sexual organs remain infantile. Especially characteris- regions can create sexual sensations. The glans of the cli- tic of this condition is prolonged growth of the long bones toris is especially sensitive for initiating sexual sensations. 1041 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction As in the male, the sexual sensory signals are trans- Second, in many animals, copulation causes the pos- mitted to the sacral segments of the spinal cord through terior pituitary gland to secrete oxytocin; this effect is the pudendal nerve and sacral plexus. Once these signals probably mediated through the brain amygdaloid nuclei have entered the spinal cord, they are transmitted to the and then through the hypothalamus to the pituitary. The cerebrum. Also, local reflexes integrated in the sacral and oxytocin causes increased rhythmic contractions of the lumbar spinal cord are at least partly responsible for some uterus, which may increase transport of the sperm. A few of the reactions in the female sexual organs. sperm have been shown to traverse the entire length of the fallopian tube in the cow in about 5 minutes, a rate at Female Erection and Lubrication. Located around the least 10 times as fast as that which the swimming motions introitus and extending into the clitoris is erectile tissue of the sperm could possibly achieve. Whether this effect almost identical to
