Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


times as fast as that which the swimming motions introitus and extending into the clitoris is erectile tissue of the sperm could possibly achieve. Whether this effect almost identical to the erectile tissue of the penis. This occurs in the human female is unknown. erectile tissue, like that of the penis, is controlled by the In addition to possible effects of the orgasm on fertil- parasympathetic nerves that pass through the nervi er- ization, the intense sexual sensations that develop during igentes from the sacral plexus to the external genitalia. In the orgasm also pass to the cerebrum and cause intense the early phases of sexual stimulation, parasympathetic muscle tension throughout the body. After culmination signals dilate the arteries of the erectile tissue, probably of the sexual act, this tension gives way during the suc- resulting from release of acetylcholine, nitric oxide, and ceeding minutes to a sense of satisfaction characterized vasoactive intestinal polypeptide at the nerve endings. by relaxed peacefulness, an effect called resolution. This allows rapid accumulation of blood in the erectile tis- sue so that the introitus tightens around the penis, which Female Fertility aids the male in his attainment of sufficient sexual stimu- Fertile Period of Each Sexual Cycle. The ovum remains lation for ejaculation to occur. viable and capable of being fertilized probably no longer Parasympathetic signals also pass to the bilateral Bar- than 24 hours after it is expelled from the ovary. Therefore, tholin glands located beneath the labia minora and cause sperm must be available soon after ovulation if fertilization them to secrete mucus immediately inside the introitus. is to take place. A few sperm can remain fertile in the fe- This mucus is responsible for much of the lubrication dur- male reproductive tract for up to 5 days. Therefore, for fer- ing sexual intercourse, although much lubrication is also tilization to take place, intercourse must occur sometime between 4 and 5 days before ovulation up to a few hours provided by mucus secreted by the vaginal epithelium, after ovulation. Thus, the period of female fertility during and a small amount is provided from the male urethral each month is short, about 4 to 5 days. glands. This lubrication is necessary during intercourse to Rhythm Method of Contraception. One commonly establish a satisfactory massaging sensation rather than practiced method of contraception is to avoid intercourse an irritative sensation, which may be provoked by
