Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to Rhythm Method of Contraception. One commonly establish a satisfactory massaging sensation rather than practiced method of contraception is to avoid intercourse an irritative sensation, which may be provoked by a dry near the time of ovulation. The difficulty with this method vagina. A massaging sensation constitutes the optimal of contraception is predicting the exact time of ovulation. stimulus for evoking the appropriate reflexes that culmi- Yet, the interval from ovulation until the next succeeding nate in both the male and female climaxes. onset of menstruation is almost always between 13 and 15 days. Therefore, if the menstrual cycle is regular, with an Female Orgasm. When local sexual stimulation reaches exact periodicity of 28 days, ovulation usually occurs within maximum intensity, and especially when the local sensa- 1 day of the 14th day of the cycle. If, in contrast, the perio- tions are supported by appropriate psychic conditioning dicity of the cycle is 40 days, ovulation usually occurs with- in 1 day of the 26th day of the cycle. Finally, if the periodic- signals from the cerebrum, reflexes are initiated that cause ity of the cycle is 21 days, ovulation usually occurs within 1 the female orgasm, also called the female climax. The fe- day of the seventh day of the cycle. Therefore, it is usually male orgasm is analogous to emission and ejaculation stated that avoidance of intercourse for 4 days before the in the male, and it may help promote fertilization of the calculated day of ovulation and 3 days afterward prevents ovum. Indeed, the human female is known to be some- conception. However, such a method of contraception can what more fertile when inseminated by normal sexual in- be used only when the periodicity of the menstrual cycle tercourse rather than by artificial methods, thus indicat- is regular. The failure rate of this method of contraception, ing an important function of the female orgasm. Possible resulting in an unintentional pregnancy, may be as high as reasons for this phenomenon are as follows. 20% to 25% per year. First, during the orgasm, the perineal muscles of the Hormonal Suppression of Fertility—“The Pill” female contract rhythmically, which results from spinal Administration of either estrogen or progesterone, if given cord reflexes similar to those that cause ejaculation in the in appropriate quantities during the first half of the month- male. It is possible that these reflexes increase uterine and ly
