Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


reflexes similar to those that cause ejaculation in the in appropriate quantities during the first half of the month- male. It is possible that these reflexes increase uterine and ly cycle, can inhibit ovulation. The reason for this is that fallopian tube motility during the orgasm, thus helping to appropriate administration of either of these hormones can transport the sperm upward through the uterus toward the prevent the preovulatory surge of LH secretion by the pi- ovum; information on this subject is scanty, however. Also, tuitary gland, which is essential in causing ovulation. the orgasm seems to cause dilation of the cervical canal for It is not fully understood why administration of estro- up to 30 minutes, thus allowing easy transport of the sperm. gen or progesterone prevents the preovulatory surge of LH 1042 Chapter 82 Female Physiology Before Pregnancy and Female Hormones secretion. However, experimental work has suggested that 99° immediately before the surge occurs, a sudden depression of Ovulation estrogen secretion by the ovarian follicles probably occurs, which might be the necessary signal that causes the subse- 98° quent feedback effect on the anterior pituitary that leads to the LH surge. The administration of sex hormones (estrogens or progesterone) could prevent the initial ovarian hormonal depression that might be the initiating signal for ovulation. 97° The challenge in devising methods for the hormonal suppression of ovulation has been in developing appropri- ate combinations of estrogens and progestins that suppress ovulation but do not cause other, unwanted effects. For 0 example, too much of either hormone can cause abnor- 0 2 4 6 8 101214 16 1820 222426 28 mal menstrual bleeding patterns. However, use of certain Day of cycle synthetic progestins in place of progesterone, especially Figure 82- 14. Elevation in body temperature shortly after ovulation. the 19-n orsteroids, along with small amounts of estrogens, usually prevents ovulation yet allows an almost normal pattern of menstruation. Therefore, almost all “pills” used Another common test is for the woman to chart her body for the control of fertility consist of some combination of temperature throughout the cycle. Secretion of progester- synthetic estrogens and synthetic progestins. The main one during the latter half of the cycle raises the body temper- reason for using synthetic estrogens and progestins is that ature about 0.5°F, with the temperature rise coming abruptly the natural hormones are almost entirely destroyed by the at the time
