Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


reason for using synthetic estrogens and progestins is that ature about 0.5°F, with the temperature rise coming abruptly the natural hormones are almost entirely destroyed by the at the time of ovulation. Such a temperature chart, showing liver within a short time after they are absorbed from the the point of ovulation, is illustrated in Figure 82- 14. gastrointestinal tract into the portal circulation. However, Lack of ovulation caused by hyposecretion of the pi- many of the synthetic hormones can resist this destructive tuitary gonadotropic hormones can sometimes be treated propensity of the liver, thus allowing oral administration. by appropriately timed administration of human chorionic Two of the most commonly used synthetic estrogens are gonadotropin, a hormone (discussed in Chapter 83) that ethinyl estradiol and mestranol. Among the most commonly is extracted from the human placenta. This hormone, al- used progestins are norethindrone, norethynodrel, ethynodi- though secreted by the placenta, has almost the same effects ol, and norgestrel. The drug is usually begun in the early stag- as LH and is therefore a powerful stimulator of ovulation. es of the monthly cycle and continued beyond the time that However, excess use of this hormone can cause ovulation ovulation would normally occur. Then the drug is stopped, from many follicles simultaneously, which results in multi- allowing menstruation to occur and a new cycle to begin. ple births, an effect that has caused as many as eight babies The failure rate, resulting in an unintentional pregnancy, (stillborn in many cases) to be born to mothers treated for for hormonal suppression of fertility using various forms of infertility with this hormone. the “pill” is about 8% to 9% per year. One of the most common causes of female sterility is Abnormal Conditions That Cause Female Sterility endometriosis, a common condition in which endometrial About 5% to 10% of women are infertile. Occasionally, no tissue almost identical to that of the normal uterine endo- abnormality can be discovered in the female genital organs, metrium grows and even menstruates in the pelvic cavity in which case the infertility is assumed to be due to either surrounding the uterus, fallopian tubes, and ovaries. En- abnormal physiological function of the genital system or dometriosis causes fibrosis throughout the pelvis, and this abnormal genetic development of the ova. fibrosis sometimes so enshrouds the ovaries that an ovum The most common cause of female sterility is failure to cannot
