Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the pelvis, and this abnormal genetic development of the ova. fibrosis sometimes so enshrouds the ovaries that an ovum The most common cause of female sterility is failure to cannot be released into the abdominal cavity. Often, endo- ovulate. This failure can result from hyposecretion of gon- metriosis occludes the fallopian tubes, either at the fimbri- adotropic hormones, in which case the intensity of the hor- ated ends or elsewhere along their extent. monal stimuli is simply insufficient to cause ovulation, or it Another common cause of female infertility is salpin- can result from abnormal ovaries that do not allow ovula- gitis, that is, inflammation of the fallopian tubes; this in- tion. For example, thick ovarian capsules occasionally exist flammation causes fibrosis in the tubes, thereby occluding on the outsides of the ovaries, making ovulation difficult. them. In the past, such inflammation occurred mainly as Because of the high incidence of anovulation in ster- a result of gonococcal infection. However, with modern ile women, special methods are often used to determine therapy, salpingitis is becoming a less prevalent cause of whether ovulation occurs. These methods are based mainly female infertility. on the effects of progesterone on the body because the nor- Still another cause of infertility is secretion of abnor- mal increase in progesterone secretion usually does not mal mucus by the uterine cervix. Ordinarily, at the time occur during the latter half of anovulatory cycles. In the of ovulation, the hormonal environment of estrogen causes absence of progestational effects, the cycle can be assumed secretion of mucus with special characteristics that allow to be anovulatory. rapid mobility of sperm into the uterus and actually guide One of these tests is simply to analyze the urine for a the sperm up along mucous “threads.” Abnormalities of the surge in pregnanediol, the end product of progester- cervix, such as low- grade infection or inflammation, or ab- one metabolism, during the latter half of the sexual cycle; normal hormonal stimulation of the cervix, can lead to a the lack of this substance indicates failure of ovulation. viscous mucous plug that prevents fertilization. 1043 )F°( erutarepmet ydoB UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Bibliography Gordon CM, Ackerman KE, Berga SL, et al: Functional hypothalamic amenorrhea: an Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline. J Clin Abbara A, Clarke SA, Dhillo WS: Novel concepts for inducing final Endocrinol Metab 102:1413, 2017. oocyte maturation in in
