Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


2017. 1044 CHAPTER 8 3 Pregnancy and Lactation In Chapters 81 and 82, the sexual functions of the male that up to 98% of ova succeed in this task. Indeed, in and female are described to the point of fertilization of some recorded cases, women with one ovary removed the ovum. If the ovum becomes fertilized, a new sequence and the opposite fallopian tube removed have had sev- of events called gestation or pregnancy takes place, and eral children with relative ease of conception, thus dem- the fertilized ovum eventually develops into a full- term onstrating that ova can even enter the opposite fallopian fetus. The purpose of this chapter is to discuss the early tube. stages of ovum development after fertilization and then to discuss the physiology of pregnancy. In Chapter 84, some Fertilization of the Ovum. After the male ejaculates special aspects of fetal and early childhood physiology are semen into the vagina during intercourse, a few sperm discussed. are transported within 5 to 10 minutes upward from the vagina and through the uterus and fallopian tubes to the MATURATION AND FERTILIZATION OF ampullae of the fallopian tubes near the ovarian ends of THE OVUM the tubes. This transport of the sperm is aided by contrac- tions of the uterus and fallopian tubes stimulated by pros- While still in the ovary, the ovum is in the primary oocyte taglandins in the male seminal fluid and also by oxytocin stage. Shortly before it is released from the ovarian fol- released from the posterior pituitary gland of the female licle, its nucleus divides by meiosis and a first polar body is during her orgasm. Of the almost half a billion sperm de- expelled from the nucleus of the oocyte (see Figure 82- 3). posited in the vagina, a few thousand succeed in reaching The primary oocyte then becomes the secondary oocyte. each ampulla. In this process, each of the 23 pairs of chromosomes loses Fertilization of the ovum (Figure 83- 1) normally takes one of its partners, which becomes incorporated in a place in the ampulla of one of the fallopian tubes soon polar body that is expelled. This leaves 23 unpaired chro- after both the sperm and the ovum enter the ampulla. mosomes in the secondary oocyte. It is at this time that Before a sperm can enter the ovum, however, it must first the ovum, which is still
