Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


enter the ampulla. mosomes in the secondary oocyte. It is at this time that Before a sperm can enter the ovum, however, it must first the ovum, which is still in the secondary oocyte stage, is penetrate the multiple layers of granulosa cells attached ovulated into the abdominal cavity. Then, almost imme- to the outside of the ovum (the corona radiata) and then diately, it enters the fimbriated end of one of the fallopian bind to and penetrate the zona pellucida surrounding the tubes. ovum. The mechanisms used by the sperm for these pur- poses are presented in Chapter 81. Entry of the Ovum Into the Fallopian Tube (Uterine Once a sperm has entered the ovum (which is still Tube). When ovulation occurs, the ovum, along with a in the secondary oocyte stage of development), the hundred or more attached granulosa cells that constitute oocyte divides again to form the mature ovum plus a the corona radiata, is expelled directly into the peritoneal second polar body that is expelled (see Figure 82-3 ). cavity and must then enter one of the fallopian tubes (also The mature ovum still carries in its nucleus (now called called uterine tubes) to reach the cavity of the uterus. the female pronucleus) 23 chromosomes. One of these The fimbriated ends of each fallopian tube fall naturally chromosomes is the female chromosome, known as the around the ovaries. The inner surfaces of the fimbriated X chromosome. tentacles are lined with ciliated epithelium, and the cilia In the meantime, the fertilizing sperm has also are activated by estrogen from the ovaries, which causes changed. On entering the ovum, its head swells to form the cilia to beat toward the opening, or ostium, of the in- a male pronucleus, shown in Figure 83- 1D. Later, the volved fallopian tube. One can actually see a slow fluid 23 unpaired chromosomes of the male pronucleus and current flowing toward the ostium. By this means, the the 23 unpaired chromosomes of the female pronucleus ovum enters one of the fallopian tubes. align themselves to re-f orm a complete complement of 46 Although one might suspect that many ova fail to chromosomes (23 pairs) in the fertilized ovum or zygote enter the fallopian tubes, conception studies suggest (see Figure 83- 1E). 1045 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Corona Dispersed corona radiata Fertilization Cell division Blastocyst radiata (day 1) Zygote Fallopian
