Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fallopian tubes, conception studies suggest (see Figure 83- 1E). 1045 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Corona Dispersed corona radiata Fertilization Cell division Blastocyst radiata (day 1) Zygote Fallopian tube Blastocyst Sperm A B reaches uterus Male (days 4-5) Sperm pronucleus Ovulation Ovum Ovary Blastocyst A implants (days 5-7) Amniotic Uterus cavity Female Centrosome C D pronucleus E Figure 83- 1. Fertilization of the ovum. A, The mature ovum sur- rounded by the corona radiata. B, Dispersal of the corona radiata. C, Entry of the sperm. D, Formation of the male and female pronuclei. E, Reorganization of a full complement of chromosomes and begin- ning division of the ovum. (Modified from Arey LB: Developmental Trophoblastic Anatomy: A Textbook and Laboratory Manual of Embryology, 7th ed. cells invading Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1974.) B endometrium Figure 83- 2. A, Ovulation, fertilization of the ovum in the fallopian WHAT DETERMINES THE SEX OF THE tube, and implantation of the blastocyst in the uterus. B, The action of trophoblast cells in implantation of the blastocyst in the uterine FETUS THAT IS CREATED? endometrium. Half of the mature sperm carry in their genome an X chromosome (the female chromosome) and half carry receptors, relaxing the tubules and allowing entry of the a Y chromosome (the male chromosome). Therefore, if ovum into the uterus. an X chromosome from a sperm combines with an X This delayed transport of the fertilized ovum through chromosome from an ovum, giving an XX combination, the fallopian tube allows several stages of cell division to a female child will be born, as explained in Chapter 81. occur before the dividing ovum—now called a blastocyst, If a Y chromosome from a sperm is paired with an X with about 100 cells—enters the uterus. During this time, chromosome from an ovum, giving an XY combination, the fallopian tube secretory cells produce large quanti- a male child will be born. ties of secretions used for nutrition of the developing blastocyst. TRANSPORT OF THE FERTILIZED OVUM IN THE FALLOPIAN TUBE IMPLANTATION OF THE BLASTOCYST IN THE UTERUS After fertilization has occurred, an additional 3 to 5 days is normally required for transport of the fertilized ovum After reaching the uterus, the developing blastocyst usu- through the remainder of the fallopian tube into the cav- ally remains in the uterine cavity an additional 1 to 3 days ity of the uterus (Figure 83- 2). This
