Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


through the remainder of the fallopian tube into the cav- ally remains in the uterine cavity an additional 1 to 3 days ity of the uterus (Figure 83- 2). This transport is effected before it implants in the endometrium; thus, implantation mainly by a feeble fluid current in the tube resulting from ordinarily occurs on about the fifth to seventh day after epithelial secretion plus action of the ciliated epithelium ovulation. Before implantation, the blastocyst obtains its that lines the tube; the cilia always beat toward the uterus. nutrition from the uterine endometrial secretions, called Weak contractions of the fallopian tube may also aid pas- “uterine milk.” sage of the ovum. Implantation results from the action of trophoblast The fallopian tubes are lined with a rugged cryptoid cells that develop over the surface of the blastocyst. These surface that impedes passage of the ovum despite the fluid cells secrete proteolytic enzymes that digest and liquefy current. Also, the isthmus of the fallopian tube (the last the adjacent cells of the uterine endometrium. Some of 2 centimeters before the tube enters the uterus) remains the fluid and nutrients released are actively transported spastically contracted for about the first 3 days after ovu- by the same trophoblast cells into the blastocyst, adding lation. After this time, the rapidly increasing progester- more sustenance for growth. Figure 83- 3 shows an early one secreted by the ovarian corpus luteum first promotes implanted human blastocyst with a small embryo. Once increasing progesterone receptors on the fallopian tube implantation has taken place, the trophoblast cells and smooth muscle cells; then the progesterone activates the other adjacent cells (from the blastocyst and the uterine 1046 Chapter 83 Pregnancy and Lactation Endometrium Trophoblasts 100 Placental 75 diffusion Ovum 50 Trophoblastic 25 nutrition 0 0 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 36 40 Duration of pregnancy (weeks after last menstruation) Figure 83- 4. Nutrition of the fetus. Most of the early nutrition is due to trophoblastic digestion and absorption of nutrients from the en- dometrial decidua, and essentially all the later nutrition results from Figure 83- 3. Implantation of the early human embryo, showing diffusion through the placental membrane. trophoblastic digestion and invasion of the endometrium. (Courtesy Dr. Arthur Hertig.) begins to be pumped by the heart of the human embryo. endometrium) proliferate rapidly, forming the placenta Simultaneously, blood sinuses supplied with blood from and the various
