Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Dr. Arthur Hertig.) begins to be pumped by the heart of the human embryo. endometrium) proliferate rapidly, forming the placenta Simultaneously, blood sinuses supplied with blood from and the various membranes of pregnancy. the mother develop around the outsides of the trophoblas- tic cords. The trophoblast cells send out more and more EARLY NUTRITION OF THE EMBRYO projections, which become placental villi into which fetal capillaries grow. Thus, the villi, carrying fetal blood, are In Chapter 82, we pointed out that the progesterone surrounded by sinuses that contain maternal blood. secreted by the ovarian corpus luteum during the latter The final structure of the placenta is shown in half of each monthly sexual cycle has an effect on the uter- Figure 83- 5. Note that the blood of the fetus flows ine endometrium, converting the endometrial stromal through two umbilical arteries, then into the capillaries cells into large swollen cells containing extra quantities of of the villi, and finally back through a single umbilical vein glycogen, proteins, lipids, and even some minerals neces- into the fetus. At the same time, the mother’s blood flows sary for development of the conceptus (the embryo and from her uterine arteries into large maternal sinuses that its adjacent parts or associated membranes). Then, when surround the villi and then back into the uterine veins of the conceptus implants in the endometrium, continued the mother. The lower part of Figure 83- 5 shows the rela- secretion of progesterone causes the endometrial cells to tionship between the fetal blood of each fetal placental swell further and to store even more nutrients. These cells villus and the blood of the mother surrounding the out- are now called decidual cells, and the total mass of cells is sides of the villus in the fully developed placenta. called the decidua. The total surface area of all the villi of the mature pla- As the trophoblast cells invade the decidua, digesting centa is only a few square meters—many times less than and imbibing it, the stored nutrients in the decidua are the area of the pulmonary membrane in the lungs. Nev- used by the embryo for growth and development. During ertheless, nutrients and other substances pass through the first week after implantation, this is the only means this placental membrane mainly by diffusion in much the by which the embryo can obtain nutrients; the embryo same manner that diffusion occurs
