Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


after implantation, this is the only means this placental membrane mainly by diffusion in much the by which the embryo can obtain nutrients; the embryo same manner that diffusion occurs through the alveolar continues to obtain at least some of its nutrition in this membranes of the lungs and the capillary membranes way for up to 8 weeks, although the placenta also begins elsewhere in the body. to provide nutrition after about the 16th day beyond fer- tilization (a little more than 1 week after implantation). PLACENTAL PERMEABILITY AND Figure 83- 4 shows this trophoblastic period of nutrition, MEMBRANE DIFFUSION CONDUCTANCE which gradually gives way to placental nutrition. The major function of the placenta is to provide for dif- ANATOMY AND FUNCTION OF THE fusion of foodstuffs and oxygen from the mother’s blood PLACENTA into the fetus’s blood and diffusion of excretory products from the fetus back into the mother. While the trophoblastic cords from the blastocyst are In the early months of pregnancy, the placental mem- attaching to the uterus, blood capillaries grow into the brane is still thick because it is not fully developed. There- cords from the vascular system of the newly forming fore, its permeability is low. Further, the surface area is embryo. About 21 days after fertilization, blood also small because the placenta has not grown significantly. 1047 ytivitcudnoc enarbmem latnecalP )mumixam fo %( noitaluvO noitirutraP UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Placenta 100 Placental septum To the mother Stratum spongiosum From the mother Fetal 80 Limiting layer Maternal vessels 60 Maternal Villus 40 20 Human 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 Intravillus space PO2 (mm Hg) Amnion Trophoblast Figure 83- 6. Oxyhemoglobin dissociation curves for maternal (blue Chorion Umbilical arteries curve) and fetal (red curve) blood, showing that fetal blood can carry Marginal Umbilical vein a greater quantity of oxygen than can maternal blood for a given sinus Umbilical cord blood Po2. (Data from Metcalfe J, Moll W, Bartels H: Gas exchange across the placenta. Fed Proc 23:775, 1964.) Villus after it becomes oxygenated in the placenta is about 30 mm Hg. Therefore, the mean pressure gradient for diffu- Fetal capillaries sion of oxygen through the placental membrane is about 20 mm Hg. Intervillous space One might wonder how it is possible for a fetus to obtain sufficient oxygen when the fetal blood leaving the Chorionic epithelium placenta has a Po 2
