Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Hg. Intervillous space One might wonder how it is possible for a fetus to obtain sufficient oxygen when the fetal blood leaving the Chorionic epithelium placenta has a Po 2 of only 30 mm Hg. There are three rea- sons why even this low Po is capable of allowing the fetal 2 blood to transport almost as much oxygen to the fetal tis- Figure 83- 5. Top, Organization of the mature placenta. Bottom, Re- sues as is transported by the mother’s blood to her tissues. lationship of the fetal blood in the villus capillaries to the mother’s First, the hemoglobin of the fetus is mainly fetal hemo- blood in the intervillous spaces. globin, which is a type of hemoglobin synthesized in the fetus before birth. Figure 83- 6 shows the comparative Therefore, the total diffusion conductance is minuscule oxygen dissociation curves for maternal hemoglobin at first. In later pregnancy, the permeability increases and fetal hemoglobin, demonstrating that the curve for because of thinning of the membrane diffusion layers fetal hemoglobin is shifted to the left of that for maternal and because the surface area expands many times over, hemoglobin. This means that at the low Po levels in fetal 2 thus giving the tremendous increase in placental diffusion blood, the fetal hemoglobin can carry 20% to 50% more shown in Figure 83- 4. oxygen than can maternal hemoglobin. Rarely, “breaks” occur in the placental membrane, Second, the hemoglobin concentration of fetal blood is which allows fetal blood cells to pass into the mother or, about 50% greater than that of the mother, which is an even less commonly, the mother’s cells to pass into the even more important factor in enhancing the amount of fetus. Fortunately, it is rare for the fetus to bleed severely oxygen transported to the fetal tissues. into the mother’s circulation because of a ruptured pla- Third, the Bohr effect, which is explained in relation to cental membrane. the exchange of carbon dioxide and oxygen in the lung in Chapter 41, provides another mechanism to enhance Diffusion of Oxygen Through the Placental Mem- the transport of oxygen by fetal blood. That is, hemoglo- brane. Almost the same principles for diffusion of oxy- bin can carry more oxygen at a low Pco than it can at a 2 gen through the pulmonary membrane (discussed in de- high Pco . The fetal blood entering the placenta carries 2
