Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


oxygen at a low Pco than it can at a 2 gen through the pulmonary membrane (discussed in de- high Pco . The fetal blood entering the placenta carries 2 tail in Chapter 40) are applicable for diffusion of oxygen large amounts of carbon dioxide, but much of this carbon through the placental membrane. The dissolved oxygen dioxide diffuses from the fetal blood into the maternal in the blood of the large maternal sinuses passes into the blood. Loss of the carbon dioxide makes the fetal blood fetal blood by simple diffusion, driven by an oxygen pres- more alkaline, whereas the increased carbon dioxide in sure gradient from the mother’s blood to the fetus’s blood. the maternal blood makes it more acidic. Near the end of pregnancy, the mean partial pressure of These changes increase the capacity of fetal blood to oxygen (Po ) of the mother’s blood in the placental sinus- combine with oxygen and decrease oxygen binding of 2 es is about 50 mm Hg, and the mean Po in the fetal blood maternal blood, which forces still more oxygen from the 2 1048 )%( nibolgomehyxO Chapter 83 Pregnancy and Lactation maternal blood while enhancing oxygen uptake by the ly the nonprotein nitrogens such as urea, uric acid, and fetal blood. Thus, the Bohr shift operates in one direction creatinine. The level of urea in fetal blood is only slightly in the maternal blood and in the other direction in the greater than that in maternal blood because urea diffuses fetal blood. These two effects make the Bohr shift twice as through the placental membrane with great ease. How- important here as it is for oxygen exchange in the lungs; ever, creatinine, which does not diffuse as easily, has a fe- therefore, it is called the double Bohr effect. tal blood concentration considerably higher than that in By these three means, the fetus is capable of receiving the mother’s blood. Therefore, excretion from the fetus more than adequate oxygen through the placental mem- depends mainly, if not entirely, on the diffusion gradients brane, despite the fact that the fetal blood leaving the pla- across the placental membrane and its permeability and centa has a Po of only 30 mm Hg. surface area. Because there are higher concentrations 2 The total diffusing capacity of the entire placenta for of the excretory products in the fetal blood than in the
