Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


mm Hg. surface area. Because there are higher concentrations 2 The total diffusing capacity of the entire placenta for of the excretory products in the fetal blood than in the oxygen at term is about 1.2 ml of oxygen per minute per maternal blood, there is continual diffusion of these sub- mm Hg oxygen pressure difference across the membrane, stances from the fetal blood to the maternal blood. which compares favorably with that of the lungs of the newborn baby. HORMONAL FACTORS IN PREGNANCY Diffusion of Carbon Dioxide Through the Placental In pregnancy, the placenta forms especially large quanti- Membrane. Carbon dioxide is continually formed in the ties of human chorionic gonadotropin, estrogens, proges- fetal tissues in the same way that it is formed in maternal terone, and human chorionic somatomammotropin, the tissues, and the only means for excreting the carbon diox- first three of which, and probably the fourth as well, are all ide from the fetus is through the placenta into the moth- essential to a normal pregnancy. er’s blood. The partial pressure of carbon dioxide (Pco ) 2 of the fetal blood is 2 to 3 mm Hg higher than that of the HUMAN CHORIONIC GONADOTROPIN maternal blood. This small pressure gradient for carbon CAUSES PERSISTENCE OF THE CORPUS dioxide across the membrane is more than sufficient to al- LUTEUM AND PREVENTS MENSTRUATION low adequate diffusion of carbon dioxide because the ex- treme solubility of carbon dioxide in the placental mem- Menstruation normally occurs in a nonpregnant woman brane allows carbon dioxide to diffuse about 20 times as about 14 days after ovulation, at which time most of the rapidly as oxygen. endometrium of the uterus sloughs away from the uterine wall and is expelled to the exterior. If this happens after an Diffusion of Foodstuffs Through the Placental Mem- ovum has implanted, the pregnancy will terminate. How- brane. Other metabolic substrates needed by the fetus ever, this sloughing is prevented by secretion of human diffuse into the fetal blood in the same manner as oxygen. chorionic gonadotropin by the newly developing embry- For example, in the late stages of pregnancy, the fetus of- onic tissues. ten uses as much glucose as is used by the entire body of Coincidental with the development of the trophoblast the mother. To provide this much glucose, the trophoblast cells from the early fertilized ovum, human chorionic cells lining the placental
