Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


body of Coincidental with the development of the trophoblast the mother. To provide this much glucose, the trophoblast cells from the early fertilized ovum, human chorionic cells lining the placental villi provide for facilitated dif- gonadotropin is secreted by the syncytial trophoblast cells fusion of glucose through the placental membrane—that into the fluids of the mother, as shown in Figure 83- 7. is, the glucose is transported by carrier molecules in the Secretion of this hormone can first be measured in the trophoblast cells of the membrane. Even so, the glucose blood 8 to 9 days after ovulation, shortly after the blas- level in fetal blood is 20% to 30% lower than that in ma- tocyst implants in the endometrium. Then, the secretion ternal blood. rate rises rapidly to reach a maximum at about 10 to 12 Because of the high solubility of fatty acids in cell mem- weeks of pregnancy and decreases back to a lower value branes, these fatty acids also diffuse from the maternal by 16 to 20 weeks. It continues at this level for the remain- blood into the fetal blood, but more slowly than glucose, der of the pregnancy. so glucose is used more easily by the fetus for nutrition. Also, such substances as ketone bodies and potassium, Function of Human Chorionic Gonadotropin. Human sodium, and chloride ions diffuse with relative ease from chorionic gonadotropin is a glycoprotein having a molec- the maternal blood into the fetal blood. ular weight of about 39,000 and much the same molecular structure and function as luteinizing hormone secreted Excretion of Waste Products Through the Placental by the pituitary gland. The most important function of Membrane. In the same manner that carbon dioxide human chorionic gonadotropin is to prevent involution of diffuses from the fetal blood into the maternal blood, the corpus luteum at the end of the monthly female sex- other excretory products formed in the fetus also dif- ual cycle. Instead, it causes the corpus luteum to secrete fuse through the placental membrane into the maternal even larger quantities of its sex hormones—progesterone blood and are then excreted along with the excretory and estrogens—for the next few months. These sex hor- products of the mother. These products include especial- mones prevent menstruation and cause the endometrium 1049 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction 120 24 Human chorionic gonadotropin 22 100 Estrogens 20 300 18 80 16
