Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


include especial- mones prevent menstruation and cause the endometrium 1049 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction 120 24 Human chorionic gonadotropin 22 100 Estrogens 20 300 18 80 16 14 200 60 12 10 40 8 Progesterone 6 100 20 4 2 Figure 83- 7. Rates of secretion of estrogens (blue 0 0 0 curve) and progesterone (black curve) and con- 0 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 36 40 centration of human chorionic gonadotropin (red curve) at different stages of pregnancy. Duration of pregnancy (weeks after last menstruation) to continue to grow and store large amounts of nutrients Figure 83- 7 shows that toward the end of pregnancy, rather than being shed in the menstruum. As a result, the the daily production of placental estrogens increases to decidua- like cells that develop in the endometrium during about 30 times the mother’s normal level of production. the normal female sexual cycle become actual decidual However, secretion of estrogens by the placenta is quite cells—greatly swollen and nutritious—at about the time different from secretion by the ovaries. Most important, that the blastocyst implants. the estrogens secreted by the placenta are not synthesized Under the influence of human chorionic gonadotropin, de novo from basic substrates in the placenta. Instead, the corpus luteum in the mother’s ovary grows to about they are formed almost entirely from androgenic steroid twice its initial size by a month or so after pregnancy begins. compounds, dehydroepiandrosterone and 16- hydroxyde- Its continued secretion of estrogens and progesterone hydroepiandrosterone, which are formed in the mother’s maintains the decidual nature of the uterine endometrium, adrenal glands and in the fetus’s adrenal glands. These which is necessary for early development of the fetus. weak androgens are transported by the blood to the pla- If the corpus luteum is removed before approximately centa and converted by the trophoblast cells into estra- the seventh week of pregnancy, spontaneous abortion diol, estrone, and estriol. The cortices of the fetal adrenal almost always occurs, sometimes even up to the 12th glands are extremely large, and about 80% consists of a so- week. After that time, the placenta secretes sufficient called fetal zone, the primary function of which seems to quantities of progesterone and estrogens to maintain be to secrete dehydroepiandrosterone during pregnancy. pregnancy for the remainder of the gestation period. The corpus luteum involutes slowly after the 13th to 17th Function of
