Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and estrogens to maintain be to secrete dehydroepiandrosterone during pregnancy. pregnancy for the remainder of the gestation period. The corpus luteum involutes slowly after the 13th to 17th Function of Estrogen in Pregnancy. In Chapter 82, we week of gestation. pointed out that estrogens exert mainly a proliferative function on most reproductive and associated organs of Human Chorionic Gonadotropin Stimulates the Male the mother. During pregnancy, the extreme quantities of Fetal Testes to Produce Testosterone. Human chorion- estrogens cause (1) enlargement of the mother’s uterus, ic gonadotropin also exerts an interstitial cell–stimulating (2) enlargement of the mother’s breasts and growth of the effect on the testes of the male fetus, resulting in produc- breast ductal structure, and (3) enlargement of the moth- tion of testosterone in male fetuses until the time of birth. er’s female external genitalia. This small secretion of testosterone during gestation is The estrogens also relax the pelvic ligaments of the what causes the fetus to grow male sex organs instead of mother, so the sacroiliac joints become relatively limber, female organs. Near the end of pregnancy, testosterone and the symphysis pubis becomes elastic. These changes secreted by the fetal testes also causes the testes to de- allow easier passage of the fetus through the birth canal. scend into the scrotum. There is reason to believe that estrogens also affect many general aspects of fetal development during pregnancy— SECRETION OF ESTROGENS BY THE for example, by affecting the rate of cell reproduction in PLACENTA the early embryo. The placenta, like the corpus luteum, secretes estrogens SECRETION OF PROGESTERONE BY THE and progesterone. Histochemical and physiological stud- PLACENTA ies show that these two hormones, like most other placen- tal hormones, are secreted by the syncytial trophoblast Progesterone is just as essential as estrogen for a success- cells of the placenta. ful pregnancy. In addition to being secreted in moderate 1050 )lm/UI( niportodanog cinoirohc namuH noitaluvO noitirutraP Estrogens (mg/24 hr estradiol equivalent) Progesterone (mg/24 hr) Chapter 83 Pregnancy and Lactation quantities by the corpus luteum at the beginning of preg- Further, the hormone promotes the release of free fatty nancy, progesterone is secreted later in tremendous quan- acids from fat stores of the mother, thus providing this tities by the placenta, as shown in Figure 83- 7. alternative source of energy for the mother’s metabolism The following special effects of progesterone are essen- during pregnancy. Therefore, it appears that
