Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the placenta, as shown in Figure 83- 7. alternative source of energy for the mother’s metabolism The following special effects of progesterone are essen- during pregnancy. Therefore, it appears that human cho- tial for the normal progression of pregnancy: rionic somatomammotropin is a general metabolic hor- 1. Progesterone causes decidual cells to develop in the mone that has specific nutritional implications for the uterine endometrium. These cells play an important mother and the fetus. role in nutrition of the early embryo. 2. Progesterone decreases contractility of the preg- Other Hormonal Factors in Pregnancy nant uterus, thus preventing uterine contractions from causing spontaneous abortion. Almost all the nonsexual endocrine glands of the mother also react markedly to pregnancy. This reaction results 3. Progesterone contributes to development of the mainly from the increased metabolic load on the mother conceptus even before implantation because it spe- but also, to some extent, from the effects of placental hor- cifically increases secretions of the mother’s fallo- mones on the pituitary and other glands. The following ef- pian tubes and uterus to provide appropriate nutri- fects are some of the most notable. tion for the developing morula (the spherical mass Pituitary Secretion. The anterior pituitary gland of the of 16 to 32 blastomeres formed before the blastula) mother enlarges at least 50% during pregnancy and increas- and blastocyst. Progesterone may also affect cell es its production of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), cleavage in the early developing embryo. thyrotropin, and prolactin. Conversely, pituitary secretion 4. The progesterone secreted during pregnancy helps of follicle- stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone is estrogen prepare the mother’s breasts for lactation, almost totally suppressed as a result of the inhibitory ef- which is discussed later in this chapter. fects of estrogens and progesterone from the placenta. Increased Corticosteroid Secretion. The rate of adreno- cortical secretion of glucocorticoids is moderately increased HUMAN CHORIONIC throughout pregnancy. It is possible that these glucocorti- SOMATOMAMMOTROPIN coids help mobilize amino acids from the mother’s tissues to be used for synthesis of fetal tissues. Human chorionic somatomammotropin, a protein hor- Pregnant women usually have about a 2- fold increase mone with a molecular weight of about 22,000, begins in aldosterone secretion, reaching a peak at the end of ges- to be secreted by the placenta at about the fifth week of tation. This increase, along with the actions of estrogens, pregnancy. Secretion of this hormone increases progres- causes a
