Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to be secreted by the placenta at about the fifth week of tation. This increase, along with the actions of estrogens, pregnancy. Secretion of this hormone increases progres- causes a tendency for even a normal pregnant woman to sively throughout the remainder of pregnancy in direct reabsorb excess sodium from her renal tubules and, there- proportion to the weight of the placenta. Although the fore, to retain fluid. functions of chorionic somatomammotropin are uncer- Increased Thyroid Gland Secretion. The mother’s thy- tain, it is secreted in quantities several times greater than roid gland ordinarily enlarges up to 50% during pregnancy that of all the other pregnancy hormones combined. It has and increases its production of thyroxine a corresponding several possible important effects. amount. The increased thyroxine production is caused at least partly by a thyrotropic effect of human chorionic gon- First, when administered to several types of animals, adotropin secreted by the placenta and by small quantities human chorionic somatomammotropin causes at least of a specific thyroid- stimulating hormone, human chori- partial development of the animal’s breasts and in some onic thyrotropin, also secreted by the placenta. cases causes lactation. Because this was the first function Increased Parathyroid Gland Secretion. The mother’s of the hormone that was discovered, it was first named parathyroid glands usually enlarge during pregnancy, es- human placental lactogen and was believed to have func- pecially if her diet is deficient in calcium. Enlargement of tions similar to those of prolactin. However, attempts these glands causes calcium absorption from the mother’s to use it to promote lactation in humans have not been bones, thereby maintaining normal calcium ion concentra- successful. tion in the mother’s extracellular fluid, even while the fetus Second, this hormone has weak actions similar to those removes calcium to ossify its own bones. This secretion of of growth hormone, causing formation of tissue proteins parathyroid hormone is even greater during lactation after in the same way that growth hormone does. It also has a the baby’s birth because the growing baby requires many times more calcium than does the fetus. chemical structure similar to that of growth hormone, but Secretion of “Relaxin” by the Ovaries and Placenta. A 100 times as much human chorionic somatomammotro- hormone called relaxin is also secreted by the corpus lu- pin as growth hormone is required to promote growth. teum of the ovary and by placental tissues. Its secretion
