Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


somatomammotro- hormone called relaxin is also secreted by the corpus lu- pin as growth hormone is required to promote growth. teum of the ovary and by placental tissues. Its secretion is Third, human chorionic somatomammotropin causes increased by a stimulating effect of human chorionic gonad- decreased insulin sensitivity and decreased utilization of otropin at the same time that the corpus luteum and the pla- glucose in the mother, thereby making larger quantities of centa secrete large quantities of estrogens and progesterone. glucose available to the fetus. Because glucose is the major Relaxin is a 48–amino acid polypeptide with a molec- substrate used by the fetus to energize its growth, the pos- ular weight of about 9000. This hormone, when injected, sible importance of such a hormonal effect is obvious. causes relaxation of the ligaments of the symphysis pubis 1051 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction in the estrous rat and guinea pig. This effect is weak or pos- 6 sibly even absent in pregnant women. Instead, this role is probably played mainly by the estrogens, which also cause 5 relaxation of the pelvic ligaments. It has also been claimed that relaxin softens the cervix of the pregnant woman at the time of delivery. Relaxin is also thought to serve as a 4 vasodilator, contributing to increased blood flow in vari- 0 ous tissues, including the kidneys, and increasing venous 0 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 36 40 44 return and cardiac output in pregnancy. Duration of pregnancy (weeks) Response of the Mother’s Body to Pregnancy Figure 83- 8. Effect of pregnancy on increasing the mother’s blood volume. Most apparent among the many reactions of the mother to the fetus and to the higher levels of pregnancy hormones is the increased size of the various sexual organs. For exam- occur, especially in calcium, phosphates, iron, and the vita- ple, the uterus increases from about 50 to 1100 grams, and mins. For example, the fetus needs about 375 milligrams of the breasts approximately double in size. At the same time, the iron to form its blood, and the mother needs an additional vagina enlarges and the introitus opens more widely. Also, the 600 milligrams to form her own extra blood. The normal various hormones can cause marked changes in a pregnant store of nonhemoglobin iron in the mother at the outset of woman’s appearance, sometimes resulting in the
