Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


extra blood. The normal various hormones can cause marked changes in a pregnant store of nonhemoglobin iron in the mother at the outset of woman’s appearance, sometimes resulting in the development pregnancy is often only 100 milligrams and almost never of edema, acne, and masculine or acromegalic features. more than 700 milligrams. Therefore, without sufficient Weight Gain in the Pregnant Woman iron in her food, a pregnant woman may develop hypochro- mic anemia. Also, it is especially important that she receive The average weight gain during pregnancy is about 25 to 35 vitamin D, because although the total quantity of calcium pounds, with most of this gain occurring during the last two used by the fetus is small, calcium is normally poorly ab- trimesters. Of this added weight, about 8 pounds is fetus and sorbed by the mother’s gastrointestinal tract without vita- 4 pounds is amniotic fluid, placenta, and fetal membranes. min D. Finally, shortly before birth of the baby, vitamin K The uterus increases about 3 pounds and the breasts another is often added to the mother’s diet so the baby will have 2 pounds, still leaving an average weight increase of 8 to 18 sufficient prothrombin to prevent hemorrhage, particularly pounds. About 5 pounds of this added weight is extra fluid brain hemorrhage, caused by the birth process. in the blood and extracellular fluid, and the remaining 3 to 13 Changes in the Maternal Circulatory System During pounds is generally fat accumulation. The extra fluid is excret- Pregnancy ed in the urine during the first few days after birth—that is, after loss of the fluid-r etaining hormones from the placenta. Blood Flow Through the Placenta and Maternal Cardiac During pregnancy, a woman often has a greatly in- Output Increase During Pregnancy. About 625 ml of blood creased desire for food, partly as a result of removal of food flows through the maternal circulation of the placenta each substrates from the mother’s blood by the fetus and partly minute during the last month of pregnancy. This flow, plus because of hormonal factors. Without appropriate prenatal the general increase in the mother’s metabolism, increases control of diet, the mother’s weight gain can be as great as the mother’s cardiac output to 30% to 40% above normal 75 pounds instead of the usual 25 to 35 pounds. by the 27th week of pregnancy; then, for unexplained rea- Metabolism During Pregnancy sons,
