Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to 30% to 40% above normal 75 pounds instead of the usual 25 to 35 pounds. by the 27th week of pregnancy; then, for unexplained rea- Metabolism During Pregnancy sons, the cardiac output falls to only a little above normal during the last 8 weeks of pregnancy, despite the high uter- As a consequence of the increased secretion of many hor- ine blood flow, indicating that blood flow in some other mones during pregnancy, including thyroxine, adrenocor- tissue(s) may be reduced. tical hormones, and the sex hormones, the basal metabolic Maternal Blood Volume Increases During Pregnancy. rate of the pregnant woman increases about 15% during the The maternal blood volume shortly before term is about latter half of pregnancy. As a result, she frequently has sen- 30% above normal. This increase occurs mainly during sations of becoming overheated. Also, owing to the extra the latter half of pregnancy, as shown in Figure 83- 8. The load she is carrying, greater amounts of energy than normal cause of the increased volume is likely due, at least in part, must be expended for muscle activity. to aldosterone and estrogens, which are greatly increased Nutrition During Pregnancy in pregnancy, and to increased fluid retention by the kid- By far the greatest growth of the fetus occurs during the last neys. In addition, the bone marrow becomes increasingly trimester of pregnancy; its weight almost doubles during active and produces extra red blood cells to go with the ex- the last 2 months of pregnancy. Ordinarily, the mother does cess fluid volume. Therefore, at the time of the birth of the not absorb sufficient protein, calcium, phosphates, and iron baby, the mother has about 1 to 2 liters of extra blood in her from her diet during the last months of pregnancy to sup- circulatory system. Only about one-fourth of this amount is ply these extra needs of the fetus. However, in anticipation normally lost through bleeding during delivery of the baby, of these extra needs, the mother’s body has already been thereby allowing a considerable safety factor for the mother. storing these substances—some in the placenta, but most Maternal Respiration Increases During Pregnancy. Be- in the normal storage depots of the mother. cause of the increased basal metabolic rate of a pregnant If appropriate nutritional elements are not present in a woman and because of her greater size, the total amount of pregnant woman’s
