Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the increased basal metabolic rate of a pregnant If appropriate nutritional elements are not present in a woman and because of her greater size, the total amount of pregnant woman’s diet, several maternal deficiencies can oxygen used by the mother shortly before the birth of the baby 1052 emulov doolB )sretil( noitirutraP Chapter 83 Pregnancy and Lactation is about 20% above normal, and a commensurate amount of NORMAL PREECLAMPSIA carbon dioxide is formed. These effects cause the mother’s Vein Vein minute ventilation to increase. It is also believed that the high levels of progesterone during pregnancy increase the minute Spiral artery ventilation even more because progesterone increases the sensitivity of the respiratory center to carbon dioxide. The Endothelial cells net result is an increase in minute ventilation of about 50% and a decrease in arterial Pco to several mm Hg below that 2 in a nonpregnant woman. Simultaneously, the growing uter- Blood us presses upward against the abdominal contents, which flow Trophoblasts press upward against the diaphragm, so the total excursion of the diaphragm is decreased. Consequently, the respiratory rate is increased to maintain the extra ventilation. Maternal Kidney Function During Pregnancy The rate of urine formation by a pregnant woman is usu- ally slightly increased because of increased fluid intake and increased load of excretory products. In addition, several special alterations of kidney function occur. First, the renal tubules’ reabsorptive capacity for so- dium, chloride, and water is increased as much as 50% as a consequence of increased production of salt and water- retaining hormones, especially steroid hormones by the placenta and adrenal cortex. Second, the renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate increase up to 50% during normal pregnancy as a result Fetal blood vessels of renal vasodilation. Although the mechanisms that cause Figure 83- 9. Remodeling of the spiral arteries of the uterine endo- renal vasodilation in pregnancy are still unclear, some stud- metrium during normal pregnancy and failure of the spiral arteries ies suggest that increased levels of nitric oxide or the ovar- to remodel adequately in preeclampsia. In normal pregnancy, the ian hormone relaxin may contribute to these changes. The trophoblasts migrate into the maternal uterine spiral arteries and increased glomerular filtration rate likely occurs, at least in transform them into much larger, low- resistance, high- flow vessels. part, as a compensation for increased tubular reabsorption In preeclampsia, the trophoblasts fail to invade the endothelium
