Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


at least in transform them into much larger, low- resistance, high- flow vessels. part, as a compensation for increased tubular reabsorption In preeclampsia, the trophoblasts fail to invade the endothelium of of salt and water. Thus, the normal pregnant woman ordinar- the spiral arteries adequately, resulting in narrow placental vessels ily accumulates only about 5 pounds of extra water and salt. and relative placental ischemia. Amniotic Fluid and Its Formation Normally, the volume of amniotic fluid (the fluid inside the glomerular filtration rate are decreased, which is exactly uterus in which the fetus floats) is between 500 ml and 1 liter, opposite to the changes that occur in the normal pregnant but it can be only a few milliliters or as much as several lit- woman. The renal effects also include thickened glomerular ers. On average, the water in amniotic fluid is replaced once tufts that contain a protein deposit in the basement mem- every 3 hours and the electrolytes sodium and potassium are branes. replaced an average of once every 15 hours. A large portion of Various attempts have been made to prove that preec- the fluid is derived from renal excretion by the fetus. Likewise, lampsia is caused by excessive secretion of placental or a certain amount of absorption occurs by way of the gastro- adrenal hormones, but proof of a hormonal basis is still intestinal tract and lungs of the fetus. However, even after in lacking. Another theory is that preeclampsia results from utero death of a fetus, some turnover of the amniotic fluid still some type of autoimmunity or allergy in the mother caused occurs, which indicates that some of the fluid is formed and by the presence of the fetus. In support of this theory, the absorbed directly through the amniotic membranes. acute symptoms usually disappear within a few days after birth of the baby. Preeclampsia and Eclampsia Evidence also indicates that preeclampsia is initiated About 5% of all pregnant women experience pregnancy- by insufficient blood supply to the placenta, resulting in induced hypertension, a rapid rise in arterial blood pres- the placenta’s release of substances that cause widespread sure to hypertensive levels during the last few months of dysfunction of the maternal vascular endothelium. Dur- pregnancy that may also be associated with leakage of large ing normal placental development, the trophoblasts in- amounts of protein into the urine. This condition is called vade the
