Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Dur- pregnancy that may also be associated with leakage of large ing normal placental development, the trophoblasts in- amounts of protein into the urine. This condition is called vade the spiral arteries of the uterine endometrium and preeclampsia or toxemia of pregnancy. It is often charac- completely remodel the maternal arteries into much larger terized by excess salt and water retention by the mother’s blood vessels with low resistance to blood flow (Figure kidneys and by weight gain and development of edema and 83-9 ). In women with preeclampsia, the maternal spiral hypertension in the mother. In addition, function of the arteries fail to undergo these adaptive changes, for reasons vascular endothelium is impaired, and arterial spasm oc- that are still unclear, and blood supply to the placenta is curs in many parts of the mother’s body, most significantly insufficient. This insufficient blood supply, in turn, causes in the kidneys, brain, and liver. Renal blood flow and the the placenta to release various substances that enter the 1053 muirtemoyM audiceD atnecalP UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction mother’s circulation and cause impaired vascular endothe- degree of uterine contractility, partly because estrogens lial function, decreased blood flow to the kidneys, excess increase the number of gap junctions between the ad- salt and water retention, and increased blood pressure. jacent uterine smooth muscle cells, but also because of Although the factors that link reduced placental blood other poorly understood effects. Both progesterone and supply with maternal endothelial dysfunction are still un- estrogen are secreted in progressively greater quantities certain, some experimental studies suggest a role for in- throughout most of pregnancy, but from the seventh creased levels of inflammatory cytokines such as tumor month onward, estrogen secretion continues to increase necrosis factor-α and interleukin-6 . Placental factors that while progesterone secretion remains constant or per- impede angiogenesis (blood vessel growth) have also been shown to contribute to increased inflammatory cytokines haps even decreases slightly. Therefore, it has been pos- and preeclampsia. For example, the antiangiogenic proteins tulated that the estrogen-t o-p rogesterone ratio increases soluble fms- related tyrosine kinase 1 (s- Flt1) and soluble sufficiently toward the end of pregnancy to be at least endoglin are increased in the blood of women with preec- partly responsible for the increased contractility of the lampsia. These substances are released by the placenta uterus. into the maternal circulation in response to ischemia and hypoxia
