Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


women with preec- partly responsible for the increased contractility of the lampsia. These substances are released by the placenta uterus. into the maternal circulation in response to ischemia and hypoxia of the placenta. Soluble endoglin and s- Flt1 have Oxytocin Causes Contraction of the Uterus. multiple effects that may impair function of the maternal Oxytocin, a hormone secreted by the neurohypo- vascular endothelium and cause hypertension, proteinu- physis, specifically causes uterine contraction (see ria, and the other systemic manifestations of preeclampsia. Chapter 76). There are four reasons to believe that oxy- However, the precise role of the various factors released tocin is important in increasing the contractility of the from the ischemic placenta in causing the multiple cardi- ovascular and renal abnormalities in women with preec- uterus near term: lampsia is still uncertain. 1. The uterine muscle increases its oxytocin recep- Eclampsia is an extreme degree of preeclampsia charac- tors and therefore increases its responsiveness to a terized by vascular spasm throughout the body; clonic sei- given dose of oxytocin during the latter few months zures in the mother, sometimes followed by coma; greatly of pregnancy. decreased kidney output; malfunction of the liver; often 2. Oxytocin secretion rate by the neurohypophysis is extreme hypertension; and a generalized toxic condition of considerably increased at the time of labor. the body. It usually occurs shortly before the birth of the 3. Although hypophysectomized animals can still de- baby. Without treatment, a high percentage of mothers liver their young at term, labor is prolonged. with eclampsia die. However, with optimal and immediate 4. Experiments in animals indicate that irritation or use of rapidly acting vasodilating drugs to reduce the arte- stretching of the uterine cervix, as occurs during rial pressure to normal, followed by immediate termination of pregnancy—by cesarean section if necessary—the mor- labor, can cause a neurogenic reflex through the tality even in mothers with eclampsia has been reduced to paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei of the hypo- 1% or less. thalamus that causes the posterior pituitary gland (the neurohypophysis) to increase its secretion of PARTURITION oxytocin. INCREASED UTERINE EXCITABILITY NEAR Effect of Fetal Hormones on the Uterus. The fetus’s TERM pituitary gland secretes increasing quantities of oxy- tocin, which might play a role in exciting the uterus. Parturition means birth of the baby. Toward the end of Also, the fetus’s adrenal glands secrete large quantities pregnancy, the uterus becomes progressively more excit-
