Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


role in exciting the uterus. Parturition means birth of the baby. Toward the end of Also, the fetus’s adrenal glands secrete large quantities pregnancy, the uterus becomes progressively more excit- of cortisol, another possible uterine stimulant. In ad- able, until finally it develops such strong rhythmic con- dition, the fetal membranes release prostaglandins in tractions that the baby is expelled. The exact cause of the high concentration at the time of labor. These prosta- increased activity of the uterus is not known, but at least two glandins, too, can increase the intensity of uterine con- major categories of effects lead up to the intense contrac- tractions. tions responsible for parturition: (1) progressive hormonal Mechanical Factors That Increase Uterine changes that cause increased excitability of the uterine Contractility musculature and (2) progressive mechanical changes. Stretch of the Uterine Musculature. Simply stretch- HORMONAL FACTORS THAT INCREASE ing smooth muscles usually increases their contractil- UTERINE CONTRACTILITY ity. Further, intermittent stretch, which occurs repeat- edly in the uterus because of fetal movements, can also Increased Ratio of Estrogens to Progesterone. Pro- elicit smooth muscle contraction. Note especially that gesterone inhibits uterine contractility during preg- twins are born, on average, 19 days earlier than a single nancy, thereby helping to prevent expulsion of the fe- child, which emphasizes the importance of mechanical tus. Conversely, estrogens have tend to increase the stretch in eliciting uterine contractions. 1054 Chapter 83 Pregnancy and Lactation Stretch or Irritation of the Cervix. There is reason to believe that stretching or irritating the uterine cervix is particularly important in eliciting uterine contractions. For example, obstetricians frequently induce labor by rupturing the membranes so the head of the baby stretch- es the cervix more forcefully than usual or irritates it in other ways. The mechanism whereby cervical irritation excites the body of the uterus is not known. It has been suggested that stretching or irritation of nerves in the cervix initi- ates reflexes to the body of the uterus, but the effect could also result simply from myogenic transmission of signals from the cervix to the body of the uterus. ONSET OF LABOR—A POSITIVE FEEDBACK MECHANISM FOR ITS INITIATION During pregnancy, the uterus undergoes periodic episodes 1. Baby's head stretches cervix of weak and slow rhythmic contractions called Braxton 2. Cervical stretch excites fundic contraction 3. Fundic contraction pushes baby down and stretches Hicks contractions. These contractions are usually not felt cervix
