Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


weak and slow rhythmic contractions called Braxton 2. Cervical stretch excites fundic contraction 3. Fundic contraction pushes baby down and stretches Hicks contractions. These contractions are usually not felt cervix some more until the second or third trimester and become progres- 4. Cycle repeats over and over again sively stronger toward the end of pregnancy; then they Figure 83- 10. Theory for the onset of intensely strong contractions change suddenly, within hours, to become exceptionally during labor. strong contractions that start stretching the cervix and later force the baby through the birth canal, thereby caus- ing parturition. This process is called labor, and the strong To summarize, multiple factors increase the con- contractions that result in final parturition are called tractility of the uterus toward the end of pregnancy. labor contractions. Eventually a uterine contraction becomes strong We do not know what suddenly changes the slow, enough to irritate the uterus, especially at the cervix, weak rhythmicity of the uterus into strong labor contrac- and this irritation increases uterine contractility still tions. However, the positive feedback theory suggests that more because of positive feedback, resulting in a sec- stretching of the cervix by the fetus’s head finally becomes ond uterine contraction stronger than the first, a third great enough to elicit a strong reflex increase in con- stronger than the second, and so forth. Once these tractility of the uterine body. This pushes the baby for- contractions become strong enough to cause this type ward, which stretches the cervix more and initiates more of feedback, with each succeeding contraction greater positive feedback to the uterine body. Thus, the process than the preceding one, the process proceeds to com- repeats until the baby is expelled. This theory is shown pletion. One might ask about the many cases of false in Figure 83- 10, and the following observations support labor, in which the contractions become stronger and this theory. stronger and then fade away. Remember that for a posi- First, labor contractions obey all the principles of tive feedback to continue, each new cycle of the posi- positive feedback. That is, once the strength of uterine tive feedback must be stronger than the previous one. contraction becomes greater than a critical value, each If at any time after labor starts some contractions fail to contraction leads to subsequent contractions that become re- excite the uterus sufficiently, the positive feedback stronger and stronger
