Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


each If at any time after labor starts some contractions fail to contraction leads to subsequent contractions that become re- excite the uterus sufficiently, the positive feedback stronger and stronger until maximum effect is achieved. could go into a retrograde decline, and the labor con- By referring to the discussion in Chapter 1 of positive tractions would fade away. feedback in control systems, one can see that this is the precise nature of all positive feedback mechanisms when ABDOMINAL MUSCLE CONTRACTIONS the feedback gain becomes greater than a critical value. DURING LABOR Second, two known types of positive feedback increase uterine contractions during labor: (1) stretching of the Once uterine contractions become strong during labor, cervix causes the entire body of the uterus to contract, pain signals originate both from the uterus and from the and this contraction stretches the cervix even more birth canal. These signals, in addition to causing suffer- because of the downward thrust of the baby’s head, and ing, elicit neurogenic reflexes in the spinal cord to the (2) cervical stretching also causes the pituitary gland to abdominal muscles, causing intense contractions of these secrete oxytocin, which is another means for increasing muscles. The abdominal contractions add greatly to the uterine contractility. force that causes expulsion of the baby. 1055 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Mechanics of Parturition • In addition, it is believed that vasoconstrictor prostaglandins formed at the placental separation The uterine contractions during labor begin mainly at the site cause additional blood vessel spasm. top of the uterine fundus and spread downward over the body of the uterus. Also, the intensity of contraction is Labor Pains great in the top and body of the uterus but weak in the low- With each uterine contraction, the mother experiences er segment of the uterus adjacent to the cervix. Therefore, considerable pain. The cramping pain in early labor is prob- each uterine contraction tends to force the baby downward ably caused mainly by hypoxia of the uterine muscle result- toward the cervix. ing from compression of the blood vessels in the uterus. In the early part of labor, the contractions might occur This pain is not felt when the visceral sensory hypogastric only once every 30 minutes. As labor progresses, the con- nerves, which carry the visceral sensory fibers leading from tractions finally appear as often as once every 1 to 3 minutes the
