Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


every 30 minutes. As labor progresses, the con- nerves, which carry the visceral sensory fibers leading from tractions finally appear as often as once every 1 to 3 minutes the uterus, have been sectioned. and the intensity of contraction increases greatly, with only During the second stage of labor, when the fetus is be- a short period of relaxation between contractions. The com- ing expelled through the birth canal, much more severe bined contractions of the uterine and abdominal muscula- pain is caused by cervical stretching, perineal stretching, ture during delivery of the baby cause a downward force on and stretching or tearing of structures in the vaginal ca- the fetus of about 25 pounds during each strong contraction. nal. This pain is conducted to the mother’s spinal cord and It is fortunate that the contractions of labor occur in- brain by somatic nerves instead of by the visceral sensory termittently, because strong contractions impede or some- nerves. times even stop blood flow through the placenta and would Involution of the Uterus After Parturition cause death of the fetus if the contractions were continu- ous. Indeed, overuse of various uterine stimulants, such as During the first 4 to 5 weeks after parturition, the uterus oxytocin, can cause uterine spasm rather than rhythmic involutes. Its weight becomes less than half its immediate contractions and can lead to death of the fetus. postpartum weight within 1 week, and in 4 weeks, if the In more than 95% of births, the head is the first part mother lactates, the uterus may become as small as it was of the baby to be expelled and, in most of the remaining before pregnancy. This effect of lactation results from the cases, the buttocks are presented first. Entering the birth suppression of pituitary gonadotropin and ovarian hormone canal with the buttocks or feet first is called a breech pres- secretion during the first few months of lactation, as dis- entation. cussed later. During early involution of the uterus, the pla- The head acts as a wedge to open the structures of the cental site on the endometrial surface autolyzes, causing a birth canal as the fetus is forced downward. The first major vaginal discharge known as lochia, which is first bloody and obstruction to expulsion of the fetus is the uterine cervix. then serous in nature and continues for a total of about 10 Toward the
