Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


lochia, which is first bloody and obstruction to expulsion of the fetus is the uterine cervix. then serous in nature and continues for a total of about 10 Toward the end of pregnancy, the cervix becomes soft, days. After this time, the endometrial surface becomes re- which allows it to stretch when labor contractions begin epithelialized and ready for normal, nongravid sex life again. in the uterus. The so- called first stage of labor is a period of progressive cervical dilation, lasting until the cervical open- ing is as large as the head of the fetus. This stage usually LACTATION lasts for 8 to 24 hours in the first pregnancy but often only a few minutes after many pregnancies. DEVELOPMENT OF THE BREASTS Once the cervix has dilated fully, the fetal membranes usually rupture and the amniotic fluid is lost suddenly The breasts, shown in Figure 83-1 1, begin to develop through the vagina. Then the head of the fetus moves rap- at puberty. This development is stimulated by the idly into the birth canal, and with additional force from estrogens of the monthly female sexual cycle; estro- above, it continues to wedge its way through the canal until gens stimulate growth of the breasts’ mammary glands delivery occurs. This is called the second stage of labor, and plus the deposition of fat to give the breasts mass. In it may last from as little as 1 minute after many pregnancies to 30 minutes or more in the first pregnancy. addition, far greater growth occurs during the high- Separation and Delivery of the Placenta. For 10 to estrogen state of pregnancy, and only then does the 45 minutes after birth of the baby, the uterus continues glandular tissue become completely developed for pro- to contract to a smaller and smaller size, which causes a duction of milk. shearing effect between the walls of the uterus and the placenta, thus separating the placenta from its implanta- Estrogens Stimulate Growth of the Ductal System tion site. Separation of the placenta opens the placental of the Breasts. All through pregnancy, the large quan- sinuses and causes bleeding. The amount of bleeding is tities of estrogens secreted by the placenta cause the usually limited to an average of 350 ml by the following ductal system of the breasts to grow and branch. Si- mechanism: multaneously, the stroma of the breasts increases in • The
