Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to an average of 350 ml by the following ductal system of the breasts to grow and branch. Si- mechanism: multaneously, the stroma of the breasts increases in • The smooth muscle fibers of the uterine musculature quantity, and large quantities of fat are laid down in are arranged in figures of eight around the blood the stroma. vessels as the vessels pass through the uterine wall. • Therefore, contraction of the uterus after delivery of Also important for growth of the ductal system are the baby constricts the vessels that had previously at least four other hormones: growth hormone, prolac- supplied blood to the placenta. tin, adrenal glucocorticoids, and insulin. Each of these 1056 Chapter 83 Pregnancy and Lactation PROLACTIN PROMOTES LACTATION Pectoralis major Adipose tissue Although estrogen and progesterone are essential for physical development of the breasts during pregnancy, Lobules and alveoli a specific effect of both these hormones is to inhibit Lactiferous the actual secretion of milk. Conversely, the hormone sinus (ampulla) prolactin has the opposite effect and promotes milk Lactiferous duct secretion. Prolactin is secreted by the mother’s ante- rior pituitary gland, and its concentration in her blood Nipple rises steadily from the fifth week of pregnancy until Areola birth of the baby, at which time it has risen to 10 to 20 times the normal nonpregnant level. This high level of prolactin at the end of pregnancy is shown in Figure 83-1 2. In addition, the placenta secretes large quantities of A human chorionic somatomammotropin, which probably has lactogenic properties, thus supporting the prolactin from the mother’s pituitary during pregnancy. Even so, Lobule because of the suppressive effects of estrogen and pro- gesterone, no more than a few milliliters of fluid are Alveoli secreted each day until after the baby is born. The fluid secreted during the last few days before and the first few days after parturition is called colostrum; it contains B essentially the same concentrations of proteins and lac- tose as milk, but it has almost no fat, and its maximum Myoepithelial cells rate of production is about 1/100 the subsequent rate of milk production. Immediately after the baby is born, the sudden loss of both estrogen and progesterone secretion from the Ductule placenta allows the lactogenic effect of prolactin from Milk the mother’s pituitary gland to assume its natural milk- promoting role, and during the next 1 to 7 days, the
