Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Ductule placenta allows the lactogenic effect of prolactin from Milk the mother’s pituitary gland to assume its natural milk- promoting role, and during the next 1 to 7 days, the Milk- secreting breasts begin to secrete copious quantities of milk instead epithelial of colostrum. This secretion of milk requires an adequate cells background secretion of most of the mother’s other hor- mones as well, but most important are growth hormone, C cortisol, parathyroid hormone, and insulin. These hor- Figure 83- 11. A, The breast and its secretory lobules, alveoli, and mones are necessary to provide the amino acids, fatty lactiferous ducts (milk ducts) that constitute its mammary gland. B, acids, glucose, and calcium required for the formation of The enlargements show a lobule and milk- secreting cells (C) of an alveolus. milk. After the birth of the baby, the basal level of prolac- tin secretion returns to the nonpregnant level during hormones is known to play at least some role in protein the next few weeks, as shown in Figure 83-1 2. How- metabolism, which presumably explains their function in ever, each time the mother nurses her baby, nervous the development of the breasts. signals from the nipples to the hypothalamus cause a 10- to 20- fold surge in prolactin secretion that lasts Progesterone Is Required for Full Development of for about 1 hour, which is also shown in Figure 83-1 2. the Lobule- Alveolar System. Final development of the This prolactin acts on the mother’s breasts to keep the breasts into milk- secreting organs also requires proges- mammary glands secreting milk into the alveoli for the terone. Once the ductal system has developed, progester- subsequent nursing periods. If this prolactin surge is one—acting synergistically with estrogen, as well as with absent or blocked as a result of hypothalamic or pitu- the other hormones just mentioned—causes additional itary damage or if nursing does not continue, the breasts growth of the breast lobules, with budding of alveoli and lose their ability to produce milk within 1 week or so. development of secretory characteristics in the cells of the However, milk production can continue for several years alveoli. These changes are analogous to the secretory ef- if the child continues to suckle, although the rate of milk fects of progesterone on the endometrium of the uterus formation normally decreases considerably after 7 to 9 during the latter half of the female menstrual
