Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


although the rate of milk fects of progesterone on the endometrium of the uterus formation normally decreases considerably after 7 to 9 during the latter half of the female menstrual cycle. months. 1057 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Estrogens Progesterone Prolactin Intermittent secretion of prolactin during 2.0 300 nursing 200 1.5 200 1.0 100 Figure 83- 12. Changes in rates of secretion of estrogens, progesterone, and prolactin for 8 100 weeks before parturition and 36 weeks thereaf- 0.5 ter. Note especially the decrease of prolactin se- cretion back to basal levels within a few weeks 0 0 0 after parturition, but also the intermittent periods –8 –4 0 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 36 of marked prolactin secretion (for about 1 hour at a time) during and after periods of nursing. Weeks after parturition The Hypothalamus Secretes Prolactin Inhibitory their babies only some of the time), the pituitary begins Hormone. The hypothalamus plays an essential role to secrete sufficient gonadotropic hormones to reinstate in controlling prolactin secretion, as it does for al- the monthly sexual cycle, even though nursing contin- most all the other anterior pituitary hormones. How- ues. ever, this control is different in one aspect: The hy- pothalamus mainly stimulates production of all the EJECTION (OR “LET- DOWN”) PROCESS other hormones, but it mainly inhibits prolactin pro- IN MILK SECRETION—FUNCTION OF duction. Consequently, damage to the hypothalamus OXYTOCIN or blockage of the hypothalamic- hypophysial portal system often increases prolactin secretion while it de- Milk is secreted continuously into the alveoli of the presses secretion of the other anterior pituitary hor- breasts, but it does not flow easily from the alveoli into mones. the ductal system and, therefore, does not continually Therefore, it is believed that anterior pituitary leak from the nipples. Instead, the milk must be ejected secretion of prolactin is controlled either entirely from the alveoli into the ducts before the baby can obtain or almost entirely by an inhibitory factor formed it. This ejection is caused by a combined neurogenic and in the hypothalamus and transported through the hormonal reflex that involves the posterior pituitary hor- hypothalamic- hypophysial portal system to the ante- mone oxytocin. rior pituitary gland. This factor is sometimes called When the baby suckles, it receives virtually no milk prolactin inhibitory hormone, but it is almost cer- for the first half minute or so. Sensory impulses must tainly
