Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sometimes called When the baby suckles, it receives virtually no milk prolactin inhibitory hormone, but it is almost cer- for the first half minute or so. Sensory impulses must tainly the same as the catecholamine dopamine, which first be transmitted through somatic nerves from the is known to be secreted by the arcuate nuclei of the nipples to the mother’s spinal cord and then to her hypothalamus and can decrease prolactin secretion as hypothalamus, where they cause nerve signals that much as 10- fold. promote oxytocin secretion at the same time that they cause prolactin secretion. The oxytocin is carried in the Suppression of the Female Ovarian Cycles in Nurs- blood to the breasts, where it causes myoepithelial cells ing Mothers for Many Months After Delivery. In (which surround the outer walls of the alveoli) to con- most nursing mothers, the ovarian cycle (and ovulation) tract, thereby expressing the milk from the alveoli into does not resume until a few weeks after cessation of the ducts at a pressure of +10 to 20 mm Hg. Then the nursing. The reason seems to be that the same nervous baby’s suckling becomes effective in removing the milk. signals from the breasts to the hypothalamus that cause Thus, within 30 seconds to 1 minute after a baby begins prolactin secretion during suckling—either because of to suckle, milk begins to flow. This process is called milk the nervous signals or because of a subsequent effect of ejection or milk let-d own. increased prolactin—inhibit secretion of gonadotropin- Suckling on one breast causes milk flow not only releasing hormone by the hypothalamus. This inhibition, in that breast but also in the opposite breast. It is in turn, suppresses formation of the pituitary gonado- especially interesting that fondling of the baby by the tropic hormones—luteinizing hormone and follicle- mother or hearing the baby crying often gives enough stimulating hormone. However, after several months of of an emotional signal to the hypothalamus to cause lactation, in some mothers (especially those who nurse milk ejection. 1058 )rh 42/gm( enoretsegorP )tnelaviuqe loidartse rh 42/gm( snegortsE noitirutraP Prolactin (ng/ml) Chapter 83 Pregnancy and Lactation Table 83- 1 Composition of Milk big problem during pregnancy, but it can become more important during lactation. Constituent Human Milk (%) Cow’s Milk (%) Water 88.5 87.0 Antibodies and Other Anti- infectious Agents in Fat 3.3 3.5 Milk. Not only does milk provide the newborn baby
