Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


lactation. Constituent Human Milk (%) Cow’s Milk (%) Water 88.5 87.0 Antibodies and Other Anti- infectious Agents in Fat 3.3 3.5 Milk. Not only does milk provide the newborn baby Lactose 6.8 4.8 with needed nutrients, but it also provides important Casein 0.9 2.7 protection against infection. For example, multiple Lactalbumin and 0.4 0.7 types of antibodies and other anti- infectious agents are other proteins secreted in milk along with nutrients. Also, several dif- Ash 0.2 0.7 ferent types of white blood cells are secreted, including both neutrophils and macrophages, some of which are especially lethal to bacteria that could cause deadly in- Inhibition of Milk Ejection. A particular problem in fections in newborn babies. Particularly important are nursing a baby comes from the fact that many psy- antibodies and macrophages that destroy Escherichia chogenic factors or even generalized sympathetic coli bacteria, which can cause lethal diarrhea in new- nervous system stimulation throughout the mother’s borns. body can inhibit oxytocin secretion and consequently When cow’s milk is used to supply nutrition for the depress milk ejection. For this reason, many mothers baby in place of mother’s milk, the protective agents in must have an undisturbed period of adjustment after it are usually of little value because they are normally childbirth if they are to be successful in nursing their destroyed within minutes in the internal environment of babies. the human being. MILK COMPOSITION AND THE Bibliography METABOLIC DRAIN ON THE MOTHER CAUSED BY LACTATION Berkane N, Liere P, Oudinet JP, et al: From pregnancy to preeclamp- sia: a key role for estrogens. Endocr Rev 38:123, 2017. Table 83- 1 lists the approximate composition of human Bernard V, Young J, Binart N: Prolactin - a pleiotropic factor in health and disease. Nat Rev Endocrinol 15:356, 2019. milk and cow’s milk. The concentration of lactose in Burton GJ, Redman CW, Roberts JM, Moffett A: Pre-e clampsia: human milk is about 50% greater than in cow’s milk, but pathophysiology and clinical implications. BMJ 366:l2381, 2019. the concentration of protein in cow’s milk is ordinarily Fleming TP, Watkins AJ, Velazquez MA, et al: Origins of lifetime two or more times greater than in human milk. Finally, health around the time of conception: causes and consequences. only one-third as much ash, which contains calcium and Lancet 391:1842, 2018. Goldstein RF, Abell SK, Ranasinha S, et al: Association of gestational other minerals, is found in human
