Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and phosphate by Shennan DB, Peaker M: Transport of milk constituents by the mam- the lactating mammae will often be much greater than mary gland. Physiol Rev 80:925, 2000. Silver RM, Branch DW: Placenta accreta spectrum. N Engl J Med the intake of these substances. To supply the needed 378:1529, 2018. calcium and phosphate, the parathyroid glands enlarge Wiles KS, Nelson- Piercy C, Bramham K: Reproductive health and greatly, and the bones become progressively decalci- pregnancy in women with chronic kidney disease. Nat Rev Nephrol fied. The mother’s bone decalcification is usually not a 14:165, 2018. 1059 UNIT XIV CHAPTER 8 4 Fetal and Neonatal Physiology A complete discussion of fetal development, physiol- rate of about 65 beats/min. This rate increases steadily to ogy of the child immediately after birth, and growth and about 140 beats/min immediately before birth. development through the early years of life lies within the Formation of Blood Cells. Nucleated red blood cells be- province of formal courses in obstetrics and pediatrics. gin to be formed in the yolk sac and mesothelial layers of the placenta at about the third week of fetal development. However, many physiological principles are peculiar to This is followed 1 week later (at 4–5 weeks) by formation of the infant, and this chapter discusses the more important non- nucleated red blood cells by the fetal mesenchyme and of these principles. also by the endothelium of fetal blood vessels. At 6 weeks, the liver begins to form blood cells, and in the third month, Growth and Development of the Fetus the spleen and other lymphoid tissues of the body begin The placenta and fetal membranes initially develop far forming blood cells. Finally, from the third month on, the more rapidly than does the fetus. In fact, during the first bone marrow gradually becomes the principal source of 2 to 3 weeks after implantation of the blastocyst, the fe- red blood cells, as well as most of the white blood cells, ex- tus remains almost microscopic, but thereafter, as shown cept for continued lymphocyte and plasma cell production in Figure 84- 1, the length of the fetus increases almost in lymphoid tissue. in proportion to age. At 12 weeks, the length is about 10 Respiratory System. Respiration cannot occur during centimeters; at 20 weeks, 25 centimeters; and at term (40 fetal life because there is no air to breathe in the amniotic weeks),
