Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


10 Respiratory System. Respiration cannot occur during centimeters; at 20 weeks, 25 centimeters; and at term (40 fetal life because there is no air to breathe in the amniotic weeks), 53 centimeters (≈21 inches). Because the weight cavity. However, attempted respiratory movements do take of the fetus is approximately proportional to the cube of place beginning at the end of the first trimester of pregnan- length, the weight increases almost in proportion to the cy. Tactile stimuli and fetal asphyxia especially cause these cube of the age of the fetus. attempted respiratory movements. Note in Figure 84- 1 that the weight remains minus- During the last 3 to 4 months of pregnancy, the respira- cule during the first 12 weeks and reaches 1 pound only at tory movements of the fetus are mainly inhibited, for rea- 23 weeks (5.5 months) of gestation. Then, during the last sons unknown, and the lungs remain almost completely de- trimester of pregnancy, the fetus gains weight rapidly, so flated. The inhibition of respiration during the later months that 2 months before birth, the weight averages 3 pounds; 1 of fetal life prevents filling of the lungs with fluid and debris month before birth, the average is 4.5 pounds; and at birth, from the meconium excreted by the fetus’s gastrointestinal the average is 7 pounds, with the final birth weight varying tract into the amniotic fluid. Also, small amounts of fluid from as low as 4.5 pounds to as high as 11 pounds in nor- are secreted into the lungs by the alveolar epithelium up mal infants with normal gestational periods. until the moment of birth, thus keeping only clean fluid in Development of the Organ Systems the lungs. Nervous System. Most of the reflexes of the fetus that Within 1 month after fertilization of the ovum, the gross involve the spinal cord and even the brain stem are present characteristics of all the different organs of the fetus by the third to fourth months of pregnancy. However, nerv- have already begun to develop, and during the next 2 to ous system functions that involve the cerebral cortex are 3 months, most of the details of the different organs are still only in the early stages of development, even at birth. established. Beyond month 4, the organs of the fetus are Indeed, myelinization of some major tracts of the brain be- grossly the same as
