Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


mother’s dramnios) and can lead to fetal death. uterine progestational endometrium even before implanta- Although fetal kidneys form urine, the renal control tion of the ovum; this iron is ingested into the embryo by systems for regulating fetal extracellular fluid volume and the trophoblastic cells and is used to form the very early red electrolyte balances, and especially acid–base balance, are blood cells. About one-third of the iron in a fully developed almost nonexistent until late fetal life and do not reach full fetus is normally stored in the liver. This iron can then be development until a few months after birth. used by the neonate to form additional hemoglobin for sev- eral months after birth. Fetal Metabolism Utilization and Storage of Vitamins The fetus mainly uses glucose for energy. The fetus has a high The fetus needs vitamins equally as much as the adult and capability of storing fat and protein, with much if not most of in some instances to a far greater extent. In general, the the fat being synthesized from glucose rather than being ab- vitamins function the same in the fetus as in the adult, as sorbed directly from the mother’s blood. In addition to these discussed in Chapter 72. Special functions of several vita- generalities, there are special problems of fetal metabolism mins should be mentioned, however. related to calcium, phosphate, iron, and some vitamins. The B vitamins, especially vitamin B 12 and folic acid, are necessary for the formation of red blood cells and nervous Metabolism of Calcium and Phosphate tissue, as well as for overall growth of the fetus. Figure 84- 2 shows the rates of calcium and phosphate accu- Vitamin C is necessary for appropriate formation of in- mulation in the fetus, demonstrating that about 22.5 grams tercellular substances, especially the bone matrix and fibers of calcium and 13.5 grams of phosphorus are accumulated in of connective tissue. the average fetus during gestation. About one-half of these Vitamin D is necessary for normal bone growth in the accumulate during the last 4 weeks of gestation, which is fetus, but even more important, the mother needs it for coincident with the period of rapid ossification of the fetal adequate absorption of calcium from her gastrointestinal bones and with the period of rapid weight gain of the fetus. tract. If the mother has plenty of vitamin D in her body During the earlier
