Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


from her gastrointestinal bones and with the period of rapid weight gain of the fetus. tract. If the mother has plenty of vitamin D in her body During the earlier part of fetal life, the bones are rela- fluids, large quantities of the vitamin will be stored by the tively unossified and have mainly a cartilaginous matrix. fetal liver to be used by the neonate for several months after Ossification usually does not occur until after the fourth birth. month of pregnancy. The mechanisms of the functions of vitamin E are not Note especially that the total amounts of calcium and entirely clear, but it is necessary for normal development phosphate needed by the fetus during gestation represent of the early embryo. In its absence in laboratory animals, only about 2% of the quantities of these substances in the spontaneous abortion usually occurs at an early stage of mother’s bones, and thus the drain of these substances pregnancy. from the mother is minimal. A much greater drain occurs Vitamin K is used by the fetal liver for formation of Fac- after birth during lactation. tor VII, prothrombin, and several other blood coagulation factors. When vitamin K is insufficient in the mother, Fac- Accumulation of Iron tor VII and prothrombin become deficient in the fetus and Figure 84- 2 also shows that iron accumulates in the fetus the mother. Because most vitamin K is formed by bacterial even more rapidly than does calcium and phosphate. Most action in the mother’s colon, the neonate has no adequate 1062 )sretemitnec( htgneL noitaluvO noitirutraP Weight (kilograms) derots surohpsohp ro muiclac fo smarG noitaluvO noitirutraP Milligrams of iron stored Chapter 84 Fetal and Neonatal Physiology source of vitamin K for the first week or so of life after birth First Breath 60 until normal colonic bacterial flora become established in the newborn infant. Therefore, prenatal storage in the fetal liver of at least small amounts of vitamin K derived from 40 the mother is helpful in preventing fetal hemorrhage, par- ticularly hemorrhage in the brain when the head is trauma- 20 tized by squeezing through the birth canal. Adjustments of the Infant to Extrauterine Life 0 +40 +20 0 –20 –40 –60 Onset of Breathing. The most obvious effect of birth on Pressure the baby is loss of the placental connection with the mother and, therefore, loss of metabolic support. One of the most Second
