Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


The most obvious effect of birth on Pressure the baby is loss of the placental connection with the mother and, therefore, loss of metabolic support. One of the most Second Breath important immediate adjustments required of the infant is 60 to begin breathing. Cause of Breathing at Birth. After normal delivery 40 from a mother whose system has not been depressed by anesthetics, the child ordinarily begins to breathe within seconds and has a normal respiratory rhythm within less 20 than 1 minute after birth. The promptness with which the fetus begins to breathe indicates that breathing is initiated 0 by sudden exposure to the exterior world, probably result- +40 +20 0 –20 –40 –60 ing from a slightly asphyxiated state that is incident to the Pressure birth process and from sensory impulses that originate in the suddenly cooled skin. In an infant who does not breathe 40 Minutes immediately, the body becomes progressively more hypox- 60 ic and hypercapnic, which provides additional stimulus to the respiratory center and usually causes breathing within an additional minute after birth. 40 Delayed or Abnormal Breathing at Birth—Danger of Hypoxia. If the mother’s system has been depressed by a 20 general anesthetic during delivery, which at least partially anesthetizes the fetus as well, the onset of respiration is 0 likely to be delayed for several minutes, thus demonstrating +40 +20 0 –20 –40 –60 the importance of using as little anesthesia as feasible. Also, Pressure many infants who have had head trauma during delivery Figure 84- 3. Pressure- volume curves of the lungs (“compliance” or who undergo prolonged delivery are slow to breathe or curves) of a neonate immediately after birth, showing the extreme sometimes do not breathe at all. This can result from two forces required for breathing during the first two breaths of life and possible effects: (1) in a few infants, intracranial hemor- development of a nearly normal compliance curve within 40 minutes rhage or brain contusion causes a concussion syndrome, after birth. (Modified from Smith CA: The first breath. Sci Am 209:32, with a greatly depressed respiratory center; (2) probably 1963. Copyright 1963 by Scientific American, Inc.) much more important, prolonged fetal hypoxia during de- livery can cause serious depression of the respiratory center. Hypoxia may occur during delivery because of (1) com- to oppose the effects of this surface tension and to open the pression of the umbilical
