Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


depression of the respiratory center. Hypoxia may occur during delivery because of (1) com- to oppose the effects of this surface tension and to open the pression of the umbilical cord; (2) premature separation of alveoli for the first time. Once the alveoli open, however, the placenta; (3) excessive contraction of the uterus, which further respiration can be effected with relatively weak res- can cut off the mother’s blood flow to the placenta; or (4) piratory movements. Fortunately, the first inspirations of the excessive anesthesia of the mother, which depresses oxy- normal neonate are extremely powerful; they are usually ca- genation even of her blood. pable of creating as much as 60 mm Hg negative pressure in Degree of Hypoxia That an Infant Can Tolerate. In adults, the intrapleural space. failure to breathe for only 4 minutes often causes death, but Figure 84-3 shows the tremendous negative intra- neonates may survive as long as 10 minutes without breathing pleural pressures required to open the lungs at the onset after birth. Permanent and serious brain impairment often en- of breathing. At the top of the figure, the pressure- volume sues if breathing is delayed more than 8 to 10 minutes. Indeed, curve (“compliance” curve) for the first breath after birth actual lesions develop mainly in the thalamus, in the inferior is shown. Observe, first, that the lower part of the curve colliculi, and in other brain stem areas, thus permanently af- begins at the zero pressure point and moves to the right. fecting many of the motor functions of the body. The curve shows that the volume of air in the lungs re- Expansion of the Lungs at Birth. At birth, the walls of the mains almost exactly zero until the negative pressure has alveoli are at first collapsed because of the surface tension reached −40 centimeters of water (−30 mm Hg). Then, of the viscid fluid that fills them. More than 25 mm Hg of as the negative pressure increases to −60 centimeters of negative inspiratory pressure in the lungs is usually required water, about 40 ml of air enters the lungs. To deflate the 1063 )lm( emuloV )lm( emuloV )lm( emuloV UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction lungs, considerable positive pressure, about +40 centim- Superior vena cava Aorta Ductus arteriosus eters of water, is required because of viscous resistance offered by the fluid in the bronchioles. Note that
