Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


considerable positive pressure, about +40 centim- Superior vena cava Aorta Ductus arteriosus eters of water, is required because of viscous resistance offered by the fluid in the bronchioles. Note that the second breath is much easier, requiring far less negative and positive pressures. Breathing does not become completely normal until about 40 minutes after birth, as shown by the third compliance curve, the shape of which compares favorably with that for the normal adult, as Lung Lung shown in Chapter 38. Respiratory Distress Syndrome Occurs When Sur- factant Secretion Is Deficient. In a small number of infants, especially premature infants and infants born of mothers with diabetes mellitus, severe respiratory distress develops Pulmonary artery in the early hours to the first several days after birth, and Inferior vena cava some infants die within the next day or so. The alveoli of Pulmonary vein these infants at death contain large quantities of proteina- ceous fluid, almost as if pure plasma had leaked out of the Foramen ovale capillaries into the alveoli. The fluid also contains desqua- Liver Ductus venosus mated alveolar epithelial cells. This condition is called hya- line membrane disease because microscopic slides of the lung show that the material filling the alveoli looks like a hyaline membrane. A characteristic finding in respiratory distress syndrome is failure of the respiratory epithelium to secrete adequate Gut quantities of surfactant, a substance normally secreted into Umbilical the alveoli that decreases the surface tension of the alveolar vein fluid, therefore allowing the alveoli to open easily during inspiration. The surfactant- secreting cells (type II alveolar epithelial cells) do not begin to secrete surfactant until the Placenta Umbilical arteries last 1 to 3 months of gestation. Therefore, many premature babies and a few full- term babies are born without the ca- Figure 84- 4. Organization of the fetal circulation. pability to secrete sufficient surfactant, which causes both a collapse tendency of the alveoli and development of pul- monary edema. The role of surfactant in preventing these heart, rather than the right side, and is pumped by the left effects is discussed in Chapter 38. ventricle mainly into the arteries of the head and forelimbs. The blood entering the right atrium from the superior Circulatory Readjustments at Birth vena cava is directed downward through the tricuspid valve Equally as essential as the onset of breathing at birth are im- into the right ventricle. This blood
