Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Readjustments at Birth vena cava is directed downward through the tricuspid valve Equally as essential as the onset of breathing at birth are im- into the right ventricle. This blood is mainly deoxygenated mediate circulatory adjustments that allow adequate blood blood from the head region of the fetus. It is pumped by the flow through the lungs. In addition, circulatory adjustments right ventricle into the pulmonary artery and then mainly during the first few hours of life cause more and more blood through the ductus arteriosus into the descending aorta, flow through the baby’s liver, which up to this point has had then through the two umbilical arteries into the placenta, little blood flow. To describe these readjustments, we first where the deoxygenated blood becomes oxygenated. consider the anatomical structure of the fetal circulation. Figure 84- 5 shows the relative percentages of the total blood pumped by the heart that pass through the differ- Specific Anatomical Structure of the Fetal Circulation ent vascular circuits of the fetus. Approximately 55% of all Because the lungs are mainly nonfunctional during fetal life the blood goes through the placenta, leaving only 45% to and because the liver is only partially functional, it is not pass through all the tissues of the fetus. Furthermore, dur- necessary for the fetal heart to pump much blood through ing fetal life, only 12% of the blood flows through the lungs, either the lungs or the liver. However, the fetal heart must whereas immediately after birth, virtually all the blood pump large quantities of blood through the placenta. flows through the lungs. Therefore, special anatomical arrangements cause the fetal Changes in Fetal Circulation at Birth circulatory system to operate much differently from that of the newborn baby. The basic changes in fetal circulation at birth are discussed First, as shown in Figure 84- 4, blood returning from in Chapter 23 in relation to congenital anomalies of the the placenta through the umbilical vein passes through the ductus arteriosus and foramen ovale that persist through- ductus venosus, mainly bypassing the liver. Then most of out life in a few persons. These changes are briefly de- the blood entering the right atrium from the inferior vena scribed in the following sections. cava is directed in a straight pathway across the posterior Decreased Pulmonary and Increased Systemic Vascu- aspect of the right atrium and through the foramen ovale lar Resistances at
