Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sections. cava is directed in a straight pathway across the posterior Decreased Pulmonary and Increased Systemic Vascu- aspect of the right atrium and through the foramen ovale lar Resistances at Birth. The primary changes in the cir- directly into the left atrium. Thus, the well- oxygenated culation at birth are, first, loss of the tremendous blood blood from the placenta enters mainly the left side of the flow through the placenta, which approximately doubles 1064 Chapter 84 Fetal and Neonatal Physiology 1155 normally remains 2 to 4 mm Hg greater than the right atrial FFoorreeqquuaarrtteerrss pressure, and the backpressure keeps the valve closed. 4433 Closure of the Ductus Arteriosus. The ductus arteriosus DDuuccttuuss also closes, but for different reasons. First, the increased aarrtteerriioossuuss 1155 systemic resistance elevates the aortic pressure while the 4422 decreased pulmonary resistance reduces the pulmonary ar- 3300 RRiigghhtt RRiigghhtt terial pressure. As a consequence, after birth, blood begins aattrriiuumm vveennttrriiccllee to flow backward from the aorta into the pulmonary artery through the ductus arteriosus, rather than in the other di- 2277 rection, as in fetal life. However, after only a few hours, the LLuunnggss muscle wall of the ductus arteriosus constricts markedly 5588 and, within 1 to 8 days, the constriction is usually sufficient 7733 to stop all blood flow. This is called functional closure of LLeefftt LLeefftt the ductus arteriosus. Then, during the next 1 to 4 months, aattrriiuumm vveennttrriiccllee the ductus arteriosus ordinarily becomes anatomically oc- 4466 cluded by growth of fibrous tissue into its lumen. The cause of ductus arteriosus closure relates to the 7733 FFoorraammeenn 1122 increased oxygenation of the blood flowing through the oovvaallee ductus, as well as loss of the vascular relaxing effects of HHiinnddqquuaarrtteerrss 1188 prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). In fetal life, the partial pressure of oxygen (Po ) of the ductus blood is only 15 to 20 mm 2 Hg, but it increases to about 100 mm Hg within a few hours PPllaacceennttaa 5555 after birth. Furthermore, experiments have shown that the degree of contraction of the smooth muscle in the ductus Figure 84-5 . Diagram of the fetal circulatory system, showing rela- wall is highly related to this availability of oxygen. tive distribution of blood flow to the different vascular areas. The nu- In one of several thousand infants, the ductus fails to merals represent the percentage of the total output from both sides close, resulting in a
