Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


different vascular areas. The nu- In one of several thousand infants, the ductus fails to merals represent the percentage of the total output from both sides close, resulting in a patent ductus arteriosus, the conse- of the heart flowing through each particular area. quences of which are discussed in Chapter 23. The failure of closure has been postulated to result from excessive ductus the systemic vascular resistance at birth. This doubling of dilation caused by vasodilating prostaglandins, especially the systemic vascular resistance increases the aortic pres- PGE2, in the ductus wall. In fact, administration of the drug sure, as well as the pressures in the left ventricle and left indomethacin, which blocks synthesis of prostaglandins, atrium. often leads to closure. Second, the pulmonary vascular resistance greatly de- Closure of the Ductus Venosus. In fetal life the portal creases as a result of expansion of the lungs. In the unex- blood from the fetus’s abdomen joins the blood from the panded fetal lungs, the blood vessels are compressed be- umbilical vein, and these together pass by way of the ductus cause of the small volume of the lungs. Immediately on venosus directly into the vena cava immediately below the expansion, these vessels are no longer compressed, and the heart but above the liver, thus bypassing the liver. resistance to blood flow decreases severalfold. Also, in fe- Immediately after birth, blood flow through the um- tal life, the hypoxia of the lungs causes considerable tonic bilical vein ceases, but most of the portal blood still flows vasoconstriction of the lung blood vessels, but vasodila- through the ductus venosus, with only a small amount pass- tion takes place when aeration of the lungs eliminates the ing through the channels of the liver. However, within 1 to hypoxia. All these changes together reduce the resistance 3 hours the muscle wall of the ductus venosus contracts to blood flow through the lungs as much as 5- fold, which strongly and closes this avenue of flow. As a consequence, the reduces the pulmonary arterial pressure, right ventricular portal venous pressure rises from near 0 to 6 to 10 mm Hg, pressure, and right atrial pressure. which is enough to force portal venous blood flow through Closure of the Foramen Ovale. The low right atrial the liver sinuses. Although the ductus venosus rarely fails to pressure and the high left atrial pressure that occur sec- close, the
