Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the Foramen Ovale. The low right atrial the liver sinuses. Although the ductus venosus rarely fails to pressure and the high left atrial pressure that occur sec- close, the mechanisms that cause its closure are uncertain. ondarily to the changes in pulmonary and systemic resist- Nutrition of the Neonate ances at birth cause blood to now attempt to flow backward Before birth, the fetus derives almost all its energy from through the foramen ovale, from the left atrium into the glucose obtained from the mother’s blood. After birth, the right atrium, rather than in the other direction, as occurred amount of glucose stored in the infant’s body in the form during fetal life. Consequently, the small valve that lies over of liver and muscle glycogen is sufficient to supply the in- the foramen ovale on the left side of the atrial septum closes fant’s needs for only a few hours. The liver of the neonate is over this opening, thereby preventing further flow through still far from functionally adequate at birth, which prevents the foramen ovale. significant gluconeogenesis. Therefore, the infant’s blood In two-thirds of all people, the valve becomes adher- glucose concentration frequently falls the first day to as low ent over the foramen ovale within a few months to a few as 30 to 40 mg/dl of plasma, which is less than half the nor- years and forms a permanent closure. However, even if mal value. Fortunately, appropriate mechanisms are avail- permanent closure does not occur—a condition called pat- able that allow the infant to use its stored fats and proteins ent foramen ovale—throughout life the left atrial pressure 1065 UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction for metabolism until mother’s milk can be provided 2 to 5 5 3 days later. Special problems are also frequently associated with 4 4 Red blood cell count getting an adequate fluid supply to the neonate because the infant’s rate of body fluid turnover averages seven times 3 3 that of an adult, and the mother’s milk supply requires several days to develop. Ordinarily, the infant’s weight de- creases 5% to 10% and sometimes as much as 20% within 2 2 the first 2 to 3 days of life. Most of this weight loss is loss of fluid rather than of body solids. 1 1 Bilirubin 0 0 Special Functional Problems in the Neonate 0 2 4 6 8 10
