Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of this weight loss is loss of fluid rather than of body solids. 1 1 Bilirubin 0 0 Special Functional Problems in the Neonate 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 An important characteristic of the neonate is instability of Age (weeks) the various hormonal and neurogenic control systems. This Figure 84- 6. Changes in the red blood cell count and in serum bili- instability results partly from immature development of the rubin concentration during the first 16 weeks of life, showing physi- different organs of the body and partly from the fact that ological anemia at 6 to 12 weeks of life and physiological hyperbiliru- the control systems simply have not become adjusted to the binemia during the first 2 weeks of life. new way of life. Respiratory System blood cell count rises an additional 0.5 to 0.75 million dur- ing the first few hours of life, giving a red blood cell count The normal rate of respiration in a neonate is about 40 of about 4.75 million per cubic millimeter, as shown in breaths per minute, and tidal air with each breath averages Figure 84- 6. Subsequently, however, few new red blood 16 ml, which results in a total minute respiratory volume of cells are formed in the infant during the first few weeks of 640 ml/min—about twice as great in relation to the body life, presumably because the hypoxic stimulus of fetal life is weight as that of an adult. The functional residual capacity no longer present to stimulate red blood cell production. of the infant’s lungs is only one- half that of an adult in rela- Thus, as shown in Figure 84- 6, the average red blood cell tion to body weight. This difference causes excessive cyclical count falls to less than 4 million per cubic millimeter by increases and decreases in the newborn baby’s blood gas about 6 to 8 weeks of age. From that time on, increasing concentrations if the respiratory rate becomes slowed, be- activity by the baby provides the appropriate stimulus for cause it is the residual air in the lungs that smooths out the the red blood cell count to return to normal within another blood gas variations. 2 to 3 months. Immediately after birth, the white blood Circulation cell count of the neonate is approximately 45,000 per cubic millimeter, which is about five times as great as that
