Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to 3 months. Immediately after birth, the white blood Circulation cell count of the neonate is approximately 45,000 per cubic millimeter, which is about five times as great as that of the Blood Volume. The blood volume of a neonate immediately normal adult. after birth averages about 300 ml, but if the infant is left at- Neonatal Jaundice and Erythroblastosis Fetalis. Bil- tached to the placenta for a few minutes after birth or if the irubin formed in the fetus can cross the placenta into umbilical cord is stripped to force blood out of its vessels into the mother and be excreted through the liver of the the baby, an additional 75 ml of blood enters the infant, to mother. Immediately after birth, the only means for rid- make a total of 375 ml. Then, during the ensuing few hours, ding the neonate of bilirubin is through the neonate’s fluid is lost into the neonate’s tissue spaces from this blood, own liver, which for the first week or so of life func- which increases the hematocrit but returns the blood vol- tions poorly and is incapable of conjugating significant ume once again to the normal value of about 300 ml. Some quantities of bilirubin with glucuronic acid for excre- pediatricians believe that this extra blood volume that results tion into the bile. Consequently, the plasma bilirubin from stripping the umbilical cord can lead to mild pulmo- concentration rises from a normal value of less than 1 nary edema with some degree of respiratory distress, but the mg/dl to an average of 5 mg/dl during the first 3 days extra red blood cells may also be valuable to the infant. of life and then gradually falls back to normal as the Cardiac Output. The cardiac output of the neonate aver- liver becomes functional. This effect, called physiologi- ages 500 ml/min, which, like respiration and body metabo- cal hyperbilirubinemia, is shown in Figure 84-6 , and lism, is about twice as much in relation to body weight as it is associated with mild jaundice (yellowness) of the in the adult. Occasionally a child is born with an especially infant’s skin and especially of the sclerae of its eyes for low cardiac output caused by hemorrhage of much of its a week or two. blood volume from the placenta at birth. However, by far the most important abnormal cause of Arterial Pressure. The
