Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


caused by hemorrhage of much of its a week or two. blood volume from the placenta at birth. However, by far the most important abnormal cause of Arterial Pressure. The arterial pressure during the first serious neonatal jaundice is erythroblastosis fetalis, which day after birth averages about 70 mm Hg systolic and 50 is discussed in detail in Chapters 33 and 36 in relation to Rh mm Hg diastolic and increases slowly during the next sev- factor incompatibility between the fetus and mother. Brief- eral months to about 90/60 mm Hg. A much slower rise ly, the erythroblastotic baby inherits Rh- positive red blood then occurs during the subsequent years until the adult cells from the father, while the mother is Rh- negative. The pressure of 115/70 mm Hg is attained at adolescence. mother then becomes immunized against the Rh- positive Blood Characteristics. The red blood cell count in the factor (a protein) in the fetus’s blood cells, and her antibod- neonate averages about 4 million per cubic millimeter. If ies destroy fetal red blood cells, releasing extreme quanti- blood is stripped from the cord into the infant, the red ties of bilirubin into the fetus’s plasma and often causing 1066 )3mm/snoillim( tnuoc llec doolb deR )ld/gm( niburilib mureS Chapter 84 Fetal and Neonatal Physiology fetal death because of a lack of adequate red blood cells. 99 Birth Before the advent of modern obstetrical therapeutics, mild 98 or serious cases of this condition occurred in 1 of every 50 to 100 neonates. 97 Fluid Balance, Acid–Base Balance, and Renal Function 96 The rate of fluid intake and fluid excretion in the newborn 95 infant is seven times as great in relation to weight as in the adult, which means that alteration of even a slight percent- 94 age in fluid intake or fluid output can cause rapidly devel- 93 oping abnormalities. The rate of metabolism in the infant is also twice as great in 0 2 4 6 8 1012 2 4 6 8 101214161820 relation to body mass as in the adult, which means that twice as much acid is normally formed, creating a tendency toward Hours after birth Days after birth acidosis in the infant. Functional development of the kidneys Figure 84- 7. Fall in body temperature of the neonate immediately is not complete until the end of about the first month of life. after birth, and instability
