Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the kidneys Figure 84- 7. Fall in body temperature of the neonate immediately is not complete until the end of about the first month of life. after birth, and instability of body temperature during the first few For example, the kidneys of the neonate can concentrate days of life. urine to only 1.5 times the osmolality of the plasma, whereas the adult can concentrate the urine to three to four times the of the ingested amino acids is used for formation of body plasma osmolarity. Therefore, considering the immaturity of proteins, which is a much higher percentage than in adults. the kidneys, together with the marked fluid turnover in the Increased Metabolic Rate and Poor Body Temperature infant and the rapid formation of acid, one can readily under- Regulation. The normal metabolic rate of the neonate in stand that among the most important problems of infancy are relation to body weight is about twice that of the adult, acidosis, dehydration, and, more rarely, overhydration. which also accounts for the fact that cardiac output and Liver Function minute respiratory volume are twice as great in relation to body weight in the infant. During the first few days of life, liver function in the neo- Because the body surface area is large in relation to body nate may be quite deficient, as evidenced by the following mass, heat is readily lost from the body. As a result, the effects: body temperature of the neonate, particularly of premature 1. The liver of the neonate conjugates bilirubin with glu- infants, falls easily. Figure 84- 7 shows that the body tem- curonic acid poorly and therefore excretes only a slight perature of even a normal infant often falls several degrees amount of bilirubin during the first few days of life. during the first few hours after birth but returns to nor- 2. Because the liver of the neonate is deficient in forming mal in 7 to 10 hours. Still, the body temperature regulatory plasma proteins, the plasma protein concentration falls mechanisms remain poor during the early days of life, al- during the first weeks of life to 15% to 20% less than that lowing marked deviations in temperature, which are also for older children. Occasionally the protein concentra- shown in Figure 84- 7. tion falls so low that hypoproteinemic edema develops. 3. The gluconeogenesis function of the neonate’s liver is Nutritional Needs During the Early
