Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the protein concentra- shown in Figure 84- 7. tion falls so low that hypoproteinemic edema develops. 3. The gluconeogenesis function of the neonate’s liver is Nutritional Needs During the Early Weeks of Life particularly deficient. As a result, the blood glucose level At birth, a neonate is usually in complete nutritional bal- of the unfed neonate falls to about 30 to 40 mg/dl (≈40% ance, provided the mother has had an adequate diet. Fur- of normal), and the infant must depend mainly on its thermore, the function of the gastrointestinal system is stored fats for energy until sufficient feeding can occur. usually more than adequate to digest and assimilate all the 4. The liver of the neonate usually also forms too little of nutritional needs of the infant if appropriate nutrients are the blood factors needed for normal blood coagulation. provided in the diet. However, three specific problems oc- Digestion, Absorption, and Metabolism of Energy cur in the early nutrition of the infant. Foods and Nutrition Need for Calcium and Vitamin D. Because the neonate is in a stage of rapid ossification of its bones at birth, a ready In general, the ability of the neonate to digest, absorb, and supply of calcium throughout infancy is necessary. This is metabolize foods is no different from that of the older child, ordinarily supplied adequately by the usual diet of milk. with the following three exceptions: However, absorption of calcium by the gastrointestinal tract 1. Secretion of pancreatic amylase in the neonate is defi- is poor in the absence of vitamin D. Therefore, within only cient, so the neonate uses starches less adequately than a few weeks, severe rickets can develop in infants who have do older children. vitamin D deficiency. This is particularly true in premature 2. Absorption of fats from the gastrointestinal tract is some- babies because their gastrointestinal tracts absorb calcium what less than that in the older child. Consequently, even less effectively than do those of normal infants. milk with a high fat content, such as cow’s milk, is often inadequately absorbed. Need for Iron in the Diet. If the mother has had ad- 3. Because the liver functions imperfectly during at least equate amounts of iron in her diet, the infant’s liver usu- the first week of life, glucose concentration in the blood ally has stored enough iron to keep forming blood cells for is unstable and
