Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


her diet, the infant’s liver usu- the first week of life, glucose concentration in the blood ally has stored enough iron to keep forming blood cells for is unstable and low. 4 to 6 months after birth. However, if the mother has had The neonate is especially capable of synthesizing and insufficient iron in her diet, severe anemia is likely to occur storing proteins. Indeed, with an adequate diet, up to 90% in the infant after about 3 months of life. To prevent this 1067 )F°( erutarepmet ydoB UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction possibility, early feeding of the infant with egg yolk, which 3. A n infant born of an untreated diabetic mother will have contains reasonably large quantities of iron, or the admin- considerable hypertrophy and hyperfunction of the islets istration of iron in some other form is desirable by the sec- of Langerhans in the pancreas. As a consequence, the ond or third month of life. infant’s blood glucose concentration may fall to lower Vitamin C Deficiency in Infants. Ascorbic acid (vitamin than 20 mg/dl shortly after birth. Fortunately, in the neo- C) is not stored in significant quantities in the fetal tissues, nate—unlike in the adult—insulin shock or coma from yet it is required for proper formation of cartilage, bone, and this low level of blood glucose concentration only rarely other intercellular structures of the infant. However, adequate develops. Maternal type 2 diabetes is the most common amounts of vitamin C are normally provided in the mother’s cause of large babies. Type 2 diabetes in the mother is breast milk unless the mother has severe vitamin C deficiency. associated with resistance to the metabolic effects of Cow’s milk has only one-fourth as much vitamin C as human insulin and compensatory increases in plasma insulin milk. In some cases, orange juice or other sources of ascorbic concentration. The high levels of insulin are believed to acid are prescribed for infants with vitamin C deficiency. stimulate fetal growth and contribute to increased birth weight. An increased supply of glucose and other nutri- Immunity ents to the fetus may also contribute to increased fetal The neonate inherits a great degree of immunity from the growth. However, most of the increased fetal weight is mother because many protein antibodies diffuse from the due to increased body fat; there is usually little increase mother’s blood through the placenta into the
