Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the increased fetal weight is mother because many protein antibodies diffuse from the due to increased body fat; there is usually little increase mother’s blood through the placenta into the fetus. However, in body length, although the size of some organs may be the neonate does not form antibodies of its own to a signifi- increased (organomegaly). When a mother has uncon- cant extent. By the end of the first month, the baby’s gamma trolled type 1 diabetes (caused by lack of insulin secre- globulins, which contain the antibodies, have decreased to less tion), fetal growth may be stunted because of metabolic than half the original level, with a corresponding decrease in deficits in the mother, and growth and tissue maturation immunity. Thereafter, the baby’s own immune system begins of the neonate are often stunted. Also, there is a high to form antibodies, and the gamma globulin concentration rate of intrauterine mortality. Among the fetuses who do returns essentially to normal by the age of 12 to 20 months. come to term, there is still a high mortality rate. Two- Despite the decrease in gamma globulins soon after thirds of the infants who die succumb to respiratory dis- birth, the antibodies inherited from the mother protect the tress syndrome, which is described earlier in this chapter. infant for about 6 months against most major childhood 4. Occasionally a child is born with hypofunctional adre- infectious diseases, including diphtheria, measles, and po- nal cortices, often resulting from agenesis of the adrenal lio. Therefore, immunization against these diseases before 6 glands or exhaustion atrophy, which can occur when months is usually not necessary. However, the inherited an- the adrenal glands have been vastly overstimulated. tibodies against whooping cough are normally insufficient 5. If a pregnant woman has hyperthyroidism or is treated to protect the neonate; therefore, for full safety, the infant with excess thyroid hormone, the infant is likely to be requires immunization against this disease beginning the born with a temporarily hyposecreting thyroid gland. second month or so of life. Health care professionals rec- Conversely, if before pregnancy a woman has had her ommend that children receive five “shots” that combine thyroid gland removed, her pituitary gland may se- vaccines for diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis (DTaP) at 2, crete great quantities of thyrotropin during gestation, 4, 6, and 15 to 18 months, and then at 4 to 6 years of age.
