Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis (DTaP) at 2, crete great quantities of thyrotropin during gestation, 4, 6, and 15 to 18 months, and then at 4 to 6 years of age. and the child might be born with temporary hyperthy- Allergy. Newborn infants are seldom subject to aller- roidism. gies. Several months later, however, when the infant’s own 6. In a fetus lacking thyroid hormone secretion, the bones antibodies first begin to form, extreme allergic states can grow poorly, and there is mental retardation, resulting develop, sometimes resulting in serious eczema, gastroin- in the condition called cretin dwarfism, which is dis- testinal abnormalities, and even anaphylaxis. As the child cussed in Chapter 77. grows older and still higher degrees of immunity develop, these allergic manifestations usually disappear. This rela- Special Problems of Prematurity tion of immunity to allergy is discussed in Chapter 35. All the problems in neonatal life just noted are severely ex- Endocrine Problems acerbated in prematurity. They can be categorized under the Ordinarily, the endocrine system of the infant is highly de- following two headings: (1) immaturity of certain organ sys- veloped at birth, and infants seldom exhibit any immediate tems and (2) instability of the different homeostatic control endocrine abnormalities. However, the endocrinology of systems. Advances in medical care have greatly improved infancy is important in the following special circumstances: outcomes for preterm babies in recent years. The survival 1. If a pregnant mother bearing a female child is treated rate for “extremely preterm” (born at less than 28 weeks of with an androgenic hormone or if an androgenic tumor gestation) infants is about 80% to 90% with modern medical develops during pregnancy, the child will be born with care. However, with each week of shortened gestation be- a high degree of masculinization of her sexual organs, low 28 weeks, the survival rate declines; at 22 weeks or less thus resulting in a type of hermaphroditism. gestational age, the preterm baby rarely survives. 2. The sex hormones secreted by the placenta and by the Immature Development of the Premature Infant mother’s glands during pregnancy occasionally cause the neonate’s breasts to form milk during the first days Almost all the organ systems of the body are immature in of life. Sometimes the breasts then become inflamed, or the premature infant and require particular attention if the infectious mastitis develops. life of the premature baby is to be saved.
