Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of life. Sometimes the breasts then become inflamed, or the premature infant and require particular attention if the infectious mastitis develops. life of the premature baby is to be saved. 1068 Chapter 84 Fetal and Neonatal Physiology Respiration. The respiratory system is especially likely 70 Boys to be underdeveloped in the extremely premature infant. The vital capacity and the functional residual capacity of Girls the lungs are especially small in relation to the size of the 60 infant. In addition, surfactant secretion is depressed or ab- sent. As a consequence, respiratory distress syndrome is a common cause of death. Also, the low functional residual 50 capacity in the premature infant is often associated with periodic breathing of the Cheyne- Stokes type. Gastrointestinal Function. Another major problem of 40 the premature infant is ingesting and absorbing adequate food. In infants who are more than 2 months premature, the digestive and absorptive systems are almost always in- 30 adequate. The absorption of fat is so poor that the prema- ture infant must have a low-f at diet. Furthermore, because the absorption of calcium is unusually difficult in prema- 20 ture infants, severe rickets can develop before the difficulty 0 4 8 12162024 4 8 12 16 20 is recognized. For this reason, special attention to adequate calcium and vitamin D intake is necessary. Age (months) Age (years) Function of Other Organs. Immaturity of other organ Figure 84- 8. Average height of boys (blue curve) and girls (red curve) systems that frequently causes serious difficulties in the pre- from infancy to 20 years of age. mature infant includes (1) immaturity of the liver, which re- sults in poor intermediary metabolism and often a bleeding tendency as a result of poor formation of coagulation factors; these infants. However, excess use of oxygen in treating (2) immaturity of the kidneys, which are particularly deficient premature infants, especially in early prematurity, can lead in their ability to rid the body of acids, thereby predisposing to blindness because too much oxygen stops the growth of the infant to acidosis and to serious fluid balance abnormali- new blood vessels in the retina. Then, when oxygen therapy ties; (3) immaturity of the blood-f orming mechanism of the is stopped, the blood vessels try to make up for lost time bone marrow, which allows rapid development of anemia; and burst forth with a great mass of vessels that grow all
