Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the blood vessels try to make up for lost time bone marrow, which allows rapid development of anemia; and burst forth with a great mass of vessels that grow all and (4) depressed formation of gamma globulin by the lym- through the vitreous humor, blocking light from the pupil phoid system, which often leads to serious infection. to the retina. Later, the vessels are replaced with a mass of fibrous tissue where the eye’s clear vitreous humor should Instability of the Homeostatic Control Systems in be located. Premature Infants This condition, known as retrolental fibroplasias, Immaturity of the different organ systems in the premature causes permanent blindness. For this reason, it is par- infant creates a high degree of instability in the homeostatic ticularly important to avoid treatment of premature mechanisms of the body. For example, the acid–base bal- infants with high concentrations of respiratory oxygen. ance can vary tremendously, particularly when the rate of Physiological studies indicate that premature infants are food intake varies from time to time. Likewise, the blood usually safe with up to 40% oxygen in the air breathed, protein concentration is usually low because of imma- but some child physiologists believe that complete safety ture liver development, often leading to hypoproteinemic can be achieved only at normal oxygen concentration in edema. Inability of the infant to regulate its calcium ion the air breathed. concentration may bring on hypocalcemic tetany. Also, the blood glucose concentration can vary between the ex- Growth and Development of the Child tremely wide limits of 20 to more than 100 mg/dl, depend- The major physiological problems of the child beyond the ing principally on the regularity of feeding. neonatal period are related to special metabolic needs for Instability of Body Temperature. One important prob- growth, which have been fully covered in the sections of lem of the premature infant is the inability to maintain a this book on metabolism and endocrinology. normal body temperature. The premature infant’s tempera- Figure 84- 8 shows the changes in heights of boys and ture tends to approach that of its surroundings. At normal girls from the time of birth until the age of 20 years. Note room temperature, the infant’s temperature (in degrees especially that these heights parallel each other almost ex- Fahrenheit) may stabilize in the low 90s or even in the 80s. actly until the end of the first decade of life. Between
