Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


these heights parallel each other almost ex- Fahrenheit) may stabilize in the low 90s or even in the 80s. actly until the end of the first decade of life. Between the Studies show that a body temperature maintained below ages of 11 and 13 years, the female estrogens begin to be 96°F (35.5°C) is associated with a particularly high inci- formed and cause rapid growth in height but early uniting dence of death, which explains the almost mandatory use of the epiphyses of the long bones at about the 14th to 16th of the incubator when treating prematurity. year of life, so growth in height then ceases. In contrast, Danger of Blindness Caused by Excess Oxygen the effect of testosterone in the male causes extra growth at Therapy in the Premature Infant a slightly later age—mainly between ages 13 and 17 years. The male, however, undergoes more prolonged growth be- Because premature infants frequently experience respira- cause of delayed uniting of the epiphyses, so his final height tory distress, oxygen therapy has often been used to treat is considerably greater than that of the female. 1069 )sehcni( thgieH UNIT XIV UNIT XIV Endocrinology and Reproduction Behavioral Growth 1122 WWaallkkss aalloonnee Behavioral growth is principally related to maturity of the 1111 SSttaannddss aalloonnee nervous system. It is difficult to dissociate maturity of the anatomical structures of the nervous system from maturity 1100 WWaallkkss wwiitthh ssuuppppoorrtt caused by training. Anatomical studies show that certain 99 PPuullllss uupp major tracts in the central nervous system are not complete- ly myelinated until the end of the first year of life. For this 88 GGrraassppss reason, it is frequently stated that the nervous system is not CCrraawwllss fully functional at birth. The brain cortex and its associated 77 functions, such as vision, seem to require several months SSiittss bbrriieeffllyy 66 after birth for final functional development to occur. At birth, the infant brain mass is only 26% of the adult 55 RRoollllss oovveerr brain mass and 55% at 1 year, but it reaches almost adult 44 proportions by the end of the second year. This process is HHaanndd ccoonnttrrooll also associated with closure of the fontanels and sutures of 33 the skull, which allows only 20% additional growth of the HHeeaadd ccoonnttrrooll brain beyond the first 2 years of life. Figure 84- 9 shows a 22 VVooccaalliizzeess normal progress chart for the infant during the
