Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Nephrol 12:754, monary hypertension in preterm infants. Clin Perinatol 46:611, 2016. 2019. Zhang X, Zhivaki D, Lo- Man R: Unique aspects of the perinatal im- Gilmore JH, Knickmeyer RC, Gao W: Imaging structural and function- mune system. Nat Rev Immunol 17:495, 2017. al brain development in early childhood. Nat Rev Neurosci 19:123, 2018. McDonald FB, Dempsey EM, O’Halloran KD: The impact of preterm adversity on cardiorespiratory function. Exp Physiol 105;17, 2020. 1070 )shtnom( egA CHAPTER 8 5 Sports Physiology There are few stresses to which the body is exposed that Testosterone secreted by the male testes has a power- approach the extreme stresses of heavy exercise. In fact, if ful anabolic effect in causing greatly increased deposition some of the extremes of exercise were continued for even of protein everywhere in the body, but especially in the muscles. In fact, even a male who participates in very little moderately prolonged periods, they might be lethal. There- sports activity but who nevertheless has a normal level of fore, sports physiology is mainly a discussion of the ulti- testosterone will have muscles that grow about 40% larger mate limits to which several of the bodily mechanisms can than those of a comparable female without the testoster- be stressed. To give one simple example: In a person who one. has extremely high fever approaching the level of lethality, The female sex hormone estrogen probably also ac- the body metabolism increases to about 100% above nor- counts for some of the difference between female and male mal. By comparison, the metabolism of the body during a performance, although not nearly so much as testosterone. marathon race may increase to 2000% above normal. Estrogen increases the deposition of fat in the female, espe- cially in the breasts, hips, and subcutaneous tissue. At least Female and Male Athletes partly for this reason, the average young (age 16–19 years) nonathletic female has about 34% body fat composition, in Most of the quantitative data that are given in this chapter contrast to the nonathletic young male (age 16–19 years), are for the young male athlete, not because it is desirable to who has about 23% (Figure 85-1 ). The average percentages know only these values, but because it is only in young male for body fat are higher in older men and women and have athletes that relatively complete measurements have been increased substantially over the past 20
