Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is only in young male for body fat are higher in older men and women and have athletes that relatively complete measurements have been increased substantially over the past 20 to 30 years as the made. Measurements in older athletes and in females are prevalence of obesity has risen in populations of most de- much less complete. However, for measurements that have veloped countries. In the United States, for example, the been made in the female athlete, similar basic physiological prevalence of obesity in now approximately 37% of the principles apply, except for quantitative differences caused adult population. Increased body fat composition is a detri- by differences in body size, body composition, and the ment to the highest levels of athletic performance in events presence or absence of the male sex hormone testosterone. in which performance depends on speed or on the ratio of In general, most quantitative values for women—such total body muscle strength to body weight. as muscle strength, pulmonary ventilation, and cardiac out- put, all of which are related mainly to the muscle mass— Muscles in Exercise vary between two-thirds and three-quarters of the values Strength, Power, and Endurance of Muscles recorded in men, although there are many exceptions to this generalization. When measured in terms of strength The final common determinant of success in athletic events per square centimeter of cross- sectional area, the female is what the muscles can do for you—that is, what strength muscle can achieve almost exactly the same maximal force they can give when it is needed, what power they can of contraction as that of the male muscle—between 3 and achieve in the performance of work, and how long they can 4 kg/cm2. Therefore, most of the difference in total muscle continue their activity. performance lies in the extra percentage of the male body The strength of a muscle is determined mainly by its size, that is muscle, which is caused partly by endocrine differ- with a maximal contractile force between 3 and 4 kg/cm2 ences that we will discuss later. of muscle cross- sectional area. Thus, a person who has The performance capabilities of the female versus male enlarged his or her muscles through an exercise train- athlete are illustrated by the relative running speeds for a ing program will have correspondingly increased muscle marathon race. In a comparison, the top female performer strength. had a running speed that
