Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a great extent, depends on the nutritive sup- times to be ruptured or actually to be avulsed from its in- port for the muscle—more than anything else, it depends sertion into the tibia below the knee. Also, when such forc- on the amount of glycogen that has been stored in the mus- es occur in tendons that span a joint, similar forces are ap- cle before the period of exercise. A person who consumes a plied to the surfaces of the joint or sometimes to ligaments high- carbohydrate diet stores far more glycogen in muscles spanning the joints, thus accounting for such happenings as than does a person who consumes either a mixed diet or a displaced cartilages, compression fractures about the joint, high- fat diet. Therefore, endurance is enhanced by a high- and torn ligaments. carbohydrate diet. When athletes run at speeds typical for The holding strength of muscles is about 40% greater the marathon race, their endurance (as measured by the than the contractile strength. That is, if a muscle is already time that they can sustain the race until complete exhaus- contracted and a force then attempts to stretch out the tion) is approximately the following: muscle, as occurs when landing after a jump, this action Minutes requires about 40% more force than can be achieved by a High- carbohydrate diet 240 shortening contraction. Therefore, the force of 525 kilo- grams previously calculated for the patellar tendon dur- Mixed diet 120 ing muscle contraction becomes 735 kilograms (1617 High- fat diet 85 pounds) during holding contractions, which further compounds the problems of the tendons, joints, and liga- The corresponding amounts of glycogen stored in the ments. It can also lead to internal tearing in the muscle. In muscle before the race started explain these differences. fact, forceful stretching of a maximally contracted muscle The amounts stored are approximately the following: is one of the surest ways to create the highest degree of g/kg Muscle muscle soreness. High- carbohydrate diet 40 Mechanical work performed by a muscle is the amount of force applied by the muscle multiplied by the Mixed diet 20 distance over which the force is applied. The power of High- fat diet 6 muscle contraction is different from muscle strength because power is a measure of the total amount of work that the muscle performs in a unit period of time. Power Muscle Metabolic Systems
