Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is different from muscle strength because power is a measure of the total amount of work that the muscle performs in a unit period of time. Power Muscle Metabolic Systems in Exercise is therefore determined not only by the strength of mus- The same basic metabolic systems are present in muscle as cle contraction but also by its distance of contraction in other parts of the body; these systems are discussed in and the number of times that it contracts each minute. detail in Chapters 68 through 74. However, special quanti- Muscle power is generally measured in kilogram me- tative measures of the activities of three metabolic systems ters (kg- m) per minute. That is, a muscle that can lift are exceedingly important in understanding the limits of 1- kilogram weight to a height of 1 meter or that can physical activity. These systems are (1) the phosphocreatine- move some object laterally against a force of 1 kilogram creatine system, (2) the glycogen–lactic acid system, and (3) for a distance of 1 meter in 1 minute is said to have a the aerobic system. power of 1 kg- m/min. The maximal power achievable Adenosine Triphosphate. The source of energy actually by all the muscles in the body of a highly trained athlete used to cause muscle contraction is adenosine triphosphate with all the muscles working together is approximately (ATP), which has the following basic formula: the following: Adenosine − PO 3∼PO 3∼PO 3− 1074 )thgiew ydob fo %( taf ydoB Chapter 85 Sports Physiology I. Phosphocreatine Creatine + PO − 3 ATP Energy II. Glycogen Lactic acid ADP for muscle contraction III. Glucose AMP Fatty acids + O CO + H O 2 2 2 Amino acids + Figure 85- 2 Important metabolic systems that sup- Urea ply energy for muscle contraction. The bonds attaching the last two phosphate radicals to Thus, the energy from the phosphagen system is used for the molecule, designated by the symbol ∼, are high- energy maximal short bursts of muscle power. phosphate bonds. Each of these bonds stores 7300 calories Glycogen–Lactic Acid System. The stored glycogen in of energy per mole of ATP under standard conditions (and muscle can be split into glucose, and the glucose can then even slightly more than this under the physical conditions in be used for energy. The initial stage of this process, called the body, which is discussed
