Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the glucose can then even slightly more than this under the physical conditions in be used for energy. The initial stage of this process, called the body, which is discussed in detail in Chapter 68). There- glycolysis, occurs without use of oxygen and, therefore, is fore, when one phosphate radical is removed, more than said to be anaerobic metabolism (see Chapter 68). During 7300 calories of energy are released to energize the mus- glycolysis, each glucose molecule is split into two pyruvic cle contractile process. Then, when the second phosphate acid molecules, and energy is released to form four ATP radical is removed, still another 7300 calories become avail- molecules for each original glucose molecule, as explained able. Removal of the first phosphate converts the ATP into in Chapter 68. Ordinarily, the pyruvic acid then enters the adenosine diphosphate (ADP), and removal of the second mitochondria of muscle cells and reacts with oxygen to converts this ADP into adenosine monophosphate (AMP). form still many more ATP molecules. However, when there The amount of ATP present in the muscles, even in a well- is insufficient oxygen for this second stage (the oxidative trained athlete, is sufficient to sustain maximal muscle power stage) of glucose metabolism to occur, most of the pyru- for only about 3 seconds, which might be enough for one half vic acid then is converted into lactic acid, which diffuses of a 50- meter dash. Therefore, except for a few seconds at a out of the muscle cells into the interstitial fluid and blood. time, it is essential that new ATP be formed continuously, Therefore, much of the muscle glycogen is transformed to even during the performance of short athletic events. Figure lactic acid, but in doing so, considerable amounts of ATP 85-2 shows the overall metabolic system, demonstrating the are formed entirely without consumption of oxygen. breakdown of ATP first to ADP and then to AMP, with release Another characteristic of the glycogen–lactic acid system of energy to the muscles for contraction. The left-h and side of is that it can form ATP molecules about 2.5 times as rapidly the figure shows the three metabolic systems that provide a as can the oxidative mechanism of mitochondria. Therefore, continuous supply of ATP in the muscle fibers. when large amounts of ATP are required for short to moder- ate periods of muscle contraction, this anaerobic glycolysis Phosphocreatine- Creatine System
