Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


continuous supply of ATP in the muscle fibers. when large amounts of ATP are required for short to moder- ate periods of muscle contraction, this anaerobic glycolysis Phosphocreatine- Creatine System mechanism can be used as a rapid source of energy. However, Phosphocreatine (also called creatine phosphate) is anoth- it is only about one-half as rapid as the phosphagen system. er chemical compound that has a high-e nergy phosphate Under optimal conditions, the glycogen–lactic acid system bond, with the following formula: can provide 1.3 to 1.6 minutes of maximal muscle activity in addition to the 8 to 10 seconds provided by the phosphagen Creatine ∼ PO 3− system, although at somewhat reduced muscle power. Phosphocreatine can decompose to creatine and phos- Aerobic System. The aerobic system is the oxidation phate ion, as shown in Figure 85-2 , and in doing so releases of foodstuffs in the mitochondria to provide energy. As large amounts of energy. In fact, the high- energy phosphate shown to the left in Figure 85-2 , glucose, fatty acids, and bond of phosphocreatine has more energy than the bond amino acids from the foodstuffs—after some intermediate of ATP: 10,300 calories per mole compared with 7300 for processing—combine with oxygen to release tremendous the ATP bond. Therefore, phosphocreatine can easily pro- amounts of energy that are used to convert AMP and ADP vide enough energy to reconstitute the high- energy bond into ATP, as discussed in Chapter 68. of ATP. Furthermore, most muscle cells have two to four In comparing this aerobic mechanism of energy supply times as much phosphocreatine as ATP. with the glycogen–lactic acid system and the phosphagen sys- A special characteristic of energy transfer from phos- tem, the relative maximal rates of power generation in terms of phocreatine to ATP is that it occurs within a small frac- moles of ATP generation per minute are the following: tion of a second. Therefore, all the energy stored in muscle phosphocreatine is almost instantaneously available for Moles of ATP/min muscle contraction, just as is the energy stored in ATP. Phosphagen system 4 The combined amounts of cell ATP and cell phospho- Glycogen–lactic acid system 2.5 creatine are called the phosphagen energy system. These substances together can provide maximal muscle power Aerobic system 1 for 8 to 10 seconds, almost enough for the 100-m eter run. 1075 UNIT XV Unit XV Sports Physiology Table 85- 1 Energy Systems Used
