Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Time ers of stored oxygen that can be used for aerobic metabo- Phosphagen system 8- 10 seconds lism even without breathing any new oxygen. This stored oxygen consists of the following: (1) 0.5 liter in the air of Glycogen–lactic acid system 1.3- 1.6 minutes the lungs, (2) 0.25 liter dissolved in the body fluids, (3) 1 Aerobic system Unlimited time (as long liter combined with the hemoglobin of the blood, and (4) as nutrients last) 0.3 liter stored in the muscle fibers, combined mainly with Thus, one can readily see that the phosphagen system is myoglobin, an oxygen-b inding chemical similar to hemo- used by the muscle for power surges of a few seconds, and globin. the aerobic system is required for prolonged athletic activ- In heavy exercise, almost all this stored oxygen is used ity. In between is the glycogen–lactic acid system, which is within a minute or so for aerobic metabolism. Then, after especially important for providing extra power during such the exercise is over, this stored oxygen must be replenished intermediate races as 200- to 800- meter runs. by breathing extra amounts of oxygen over and above the What Types of Sports Use Which Energy Systems? By normal requirements. In addition, about 9 liters more oxy- gen must be consumed to reconstitute the phosphagen sys- considering the vigor of a sports activity and its duration, tem and the lactic acid system. All this extra oxygen that one can estimate closely which of the energy systems is must be “repaid,” about 11.5 liters, is called the oxygen debt. used for each activity. Various approximations are present- ed in Table 85-1 . Figure 85-3 shows this principle of oxygen debt. Dur- Recovery of Muscle Metabolic Systems After ing the first 4 minutes, as depicted in the figure, the person Exercise. In the same way that energy from phosphocre- exercises heavily, and the rate of oxygen uptake increases more than 15- fold. Then, even after the exercise is over, atine can be used to reconstitute ATP, energy from the the oxygen uptake still remains above normal; at first it is glycogen–lactic acid system can be used to reconstitute very high while the body is reconstituting the phosphagen phosphocreatine and ATP. Energy from the oxidative me- system and repaying the stored oxygen portion of the tabolism of the aerobic system can then be used to recon- oxygen debt, and then it
