Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in people who as marathon races. consume a high-c arbohydrate diet; (2) in people who con- Therefore, if muscle glycogen and blood glucose are sume a high-f at, high- protein diet; and (3) in people who available, they are the energy nutrients of choice for intense consume no food. Note that for persons who consume a muscle activity. Even so, for a long- term endurance event, high- carbohydrate diet, full recovery occurs in about 2 days. one can expect fat to supply more than 50% of the required Conversely, people who consume a high-f at, high- protein energy after about the first 3 to 4 hours. diet or no food at all show very little recovery, even after as long as 5 days. The messages of this comparison are (1) it Effect of Athletic Training on Muscles and Muscle is important for athletes to consume a high- carbohydrate Performance diet before a grueling athletic event and (2) athletes should Maximal Resistance Training Increases Muscle Strength. not participate in exhaustive exercise during the 48 hours preceding the event. One of the cardinal principles of muscle development dur- ing athletic training is the following: Muscles that function Nutrients Used During Muscle Activity under no load, even if they are exercised for hours on end, increase little in strength. At the other extreme, muscles In addition to the use of a large amount of carbohydrates that contract at more than 50% maximal force of contrac- by the muscles during exercise, especially during the ear- tion will develop strength rapidly even if the contractions ly stages of exercise, muscles use large amounts of fat for are performed only a few times each day. Using this prin- energy in the form of fatty acids and acetoacetic acid (see ciple, experiments on muscle building have shown that six Chapter 69), as well as (to a much less extent) proteins in nearly maximal muscle contractions performed in three sets the form of amino acids. In fact, even under the best condi- 3 days a week give approximately optimal increase in mus- tions, in endurance athletic events that last longer than 4 to cle strength without producing chronic muscle fatigue. 5 hours, the glycogen stores of the muscle become almost The upper curve in Figure 85-6 shows the approximate totally depleted and are of little further use for energizing percentage increase in strength that can be achieved in
