Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


become almost The upper curve in Figure 85-6 shows the approximate totally depleted and are of little further use for energizing percentage increase in strength that can be achieved in a muscle contraction. Instead, the muscle now depends on previously untrained young person by this resistive training energy from other sources, mainly from fats. program, demonstrating that the muscle strength increases Figure 85- 5 shows the approximate relative usage of about 30% during the first 6 to 8 weeks but almost plateaus carbohydrates and fat for energy during prolonged ex- after that time. Along with this increase in strength is an haustive exercise under three dietary conditions: a high- approximately equal percentage increase in muscle mass, carbohydrate diet, a mixed diet, and a high- fat diet. Note which is called muscle hypertrophy. that most of the energy is derived from carbohydrates In old age, many people become so sedentary that their during the first few seconds or minutes of the exercise, muscles atrophy tremendously. In these cases, however, but at the time of exhaustion, as much as 60% to 85% of muscle training may increase muscle strength more than the energy is being derived from fats rather than carbo- 100%. hydrates. 1077 )elcsum gk/g( tnetnoc negocylg elcsuM egasu etardyhobrac tnecreP egasu taf tnecreP UNIT XV Unit XV Sports Physiology far more mitochondria than do the fast- twitch fibers. Resistive training 30 In addition, they contain considerably more myoglobin, a hemoglobin- like protein that combines with oxygen 25 within the muscle fiber; the extra myoglobin increases 20 the rate of diffusion of oxygen throughout the fiber by 15 shuttling oxygen from one molecule of myoglobin to the next. In addition, the enzymes of the aerobic metabolic 10 system are considerably more active in slow- twitch fib- 5 ers than in fast- twitch fibers. No-load training 4. Th e number of capillaries is greater in the vicinity of 0 slow- twitch fibers than in the vicinity of fast- twitch 0 2 4 6 8 10 fibers. Weeks of training In summary, fast- twitch fibers can deliver extreme amounts of power for a few seconds to a minute or so. Figure 85- 6 Approximate effect of optimal resistive exercise training on increase in muscle strength over a training period of 10 weeks. Conversely, slow- twitch fibers provide endurance, deliver- ing prolonged strength of contraction over many minutes Muscle Hypertrophy. The average size of
