Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


muscle strength over a training period of 10 weeks. Conversely, slow- twitch fibers provide endurance, deliver- ing prolonged strength of contraction over many minutes Muscle Hypertrophy. The average size of a person’s to hours. Hereditary Differences Among Athletes for Fast-T witch muscles is determined to a great extent by heredity plus Versus Slow- Twitch Muscle Fibers. Some people have con- the level of testosterone secretion, which, in men, causes siderably more fast- twitch than slow- twitch fibers, and considerably larger muscles than in women. With training, others have more slow- twitch fibers; this factor could de- however, the muscles can become hypertrophied perhaps termine to some extent the athletic capabilities of differ- an additional 30% to 60%. Most of this hypertrophy results ent individuals. Athletic training may change the relative from increased diameter of the muscle fibers rather than proportions of fast- twitch and slow- twitch fibers as much increased numbers of fibers. However, a very few greatly as 10%. However, the relative proportions of fast- twitch enlarged muscle fibers are believed to split down the mid- and slow- twitch fibers seem to be determined to a great dle along their entire length to form entirely new fibers, extent by genetic inheritance, which in turn helps deter- thus increasing the number of fibers slightly. mine which area of athletics is most suited to each person: The changes that occur inside the hypertrophied muscle some people appear to be born to be marathoners, whereas fibers include (1) increased numbers of myofibrils, propor- others are born to be sprinters and jumpers. For example, tionate to the degree of hypertrophy; (2) up to 120% in- the following values are recorded percentages of fast- twitch crease in mitochondrial enzymes; (3) as much as 60% to versus slow- twitch fiber in the quadriceps muscles of dif- 80% increase in the components of the phosphagen meta- ferent types of athletes: bolic system, including ATP and phosphocreatine; (4) as much as 50% increase in stored glycogen; and (5) as much as 75% to 100% increase in stored triglyceride (fat). Because Fast- Twitch Fiber Slow- Twitch Fiber of all these changes, the capabilities of both the anaerobic Marathoners 18 82 and the aerobic metabolic systems are increased, especially Swimmers 26 74 increasing the maximum oxidation rate and efficiency of the oxidative metabolic system as much as 45%. Average male 55 45 Fast- Twitch and Slow- Twitch Muscle Fibers.
