Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


2max over a period of 7 to 13 weeks of Figure 85- 7 Effect of exercise on oxygen consumption and ventila- athletic training. (Modified from Fox EL: Sports Physiology. Philadel- tory rate. (Modified from Gray JS: Pulmonary Ventilation and Its Physi- phia: Saunders College Publishing, 1979.) ological Regulation. Springfield, IL: Charles C Thomas, 1950.) Figure 85-7 shows the relation between oxygen consump- marathoners. However, it is also likely that many years of . tion and total pulmonary ventilation at different levels of training increase the marathoner’s Vo max by values con- 2 exercise. As would be expected, there is a linear relation. siderably greater than the 10% that has been recorded in Both oxygen consumption and total pulmonary ventilation short- term experiments such as that in Figure 85-8 . increase about 20- fold between the resting state and maxi- Oxygen- Diffusing Capacity of Athletes. The oxygen- mal intensity of exercise in the well- trained athlete. diffusing capacity is a measure of the rate at which oxygen Limits of Pulmonary Ventilation. How severely do we can diffuse from the pulmonary alveoli into the blood. This stress our respiratory systems during exercise? This ques- capacity is expressed in terms of milliliters of oxygen that tion can be answered by the following comparison for a will diffuse each minute for each millimeter of mercury dif- normal young man: ference between alveolar partial pressure of oxygen and pul- monary blood oxygen pressure. That is, if the partial pres- L/min sure of oxygen in the alveoli is 91 mm Hg and the oxygen Pulmonary ventilation at 100–110 pressure in the blood is 90 mm Hg, the amount of oxygen maximal exercise that diffuses through the respiratory membrane each min- Maximal breathing capacity 150–170 ute is equal to the diffusing capacity. The following values are measured values for different diffusing capacities: Thus, the maximal breathing capacity is about 50% greater ml/min than the actual pulmonary ventilation during maximal exer- cise. This difference provides an element of safety for athletes, Nonathlete at rest 23 giving them extra ventilation that can be called on in such con- Nonathlete during maximal exercise 48 ditions as (1) exercise at high altitudes, (2) exercise under very Speed skater during maximal exercise 64 hot conditions, and (3) abnormalities in the respiratory system. The important point is that the respiratory system is not Swimmer during maximal exercise 71 normally the most limiting factor
