Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


64 hot conditions, and (3) abnormalities in the respiratory system. The important point is that the respiratory system is not Swimmer during maximal exercise 71 normally the most limiting factor in the delivery of oxygen Oarsman during maximal exercise 80 to the muscles during maximal muscle aerobic metabolism. We shall see shortly that the ability of the heart to pump The most startling fact about these results is the severalfold in- blood to the muscles is usually a greater limiting factor. crease in diffusing capacity between the resting state and the . Effect of Training on Vo 2max. The abbreviation for the state of maximal exercise. This finding results mainly from the rate of oxygen usage (in L/min) under maximal aerobic fact that blood flow through many of the pulmonary capillar- . metabolism is V o 2max . Figure . 85-8 shows the progressive ies is sluggish or even dormant in the resting state, whereas effect of athletic training on Vo max recorded in a group in maximal exercise, increased blood flow through the lungs 2 of subjects beginning at the level of no training and then causes all the pulmonary capillaries to be perfused at their while pursuing the training program for 7 to 13 weeks. In maximal rates, thus providing a far greater surface area through . this study, it is surprising that the Vo max increased only which oxygen can diffuse into the pulmonary capillary blood. 2 about 10%. Furthermore, the frequency of training, wheth- It is also clear from these values that athletes who re- er two times or five times per week, had little effect on the quire greater amounts of oxygen per minute have higher . . increase in V o max. Yet, as pointed out earlier, the V o max diffusing capacities. Is this the case because people with 2 2 of a marathoner is about 45% greater than that of an un- naturally greater diffusing capacities choose these types of . trained person. Part of this greater Vo max of the mara- sports, or is it because something about the training pro- 2 thoner may be genetically determined; that is, people who cedures increases the diffusing capacity? The answer is un- have greater chest sizes in relation to body size and stronger certain, but it is very likely that training, particularly endur- respiratory muscles may select themselves to become ance training, does
