Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


greater chest sizes in relation to body size and stronger certain, but it is very likely that training, particularly endur- respiratory muscles may select themselves to become ance training, does play an important role. 1079 )nim/L( noitalitnev latoT • )nim/L( xam oV 2 UNIT XV Unit XV Sports Physiology Blood Gases During Exercise. Because of the great oxy- Rhythmic exercise 40 gen usage by the muscles in exercise, one might expect the oxygen pressure of the arterial blood to decrease markedly during strenuous athletics and the carbon dioxide pressure of the venous blood to increase far above normal. How- ever, this normally is not the case. Both of these values re- main nearly normal, demonstrating the extreme ability of 20 the respiratory system to provide adequate aeration of the blood, even during heavy exercise. This demonstrates another important point: The blood gases do not always have to become abnormal for respiration to be stimulated in exercise. Instead, respiration is stimu- lated mainly by neurogenic mechanisms during exercise, 0 10 16 18 as discussed in Chapter 42. Part of this stimulation results Minutes from direct stimulation of the respiratory center by the same nervous signals that are transmitted from the brain Figure 85- 9 Effects of muscle exercise on blood flow in the calf of to the muscles to cause the exercise. An additional part is a leg during strong rhythmic contractions. The blood flow was much less during contraction than between contractions. (Modified from believed to result from sensory signals transmitted into the Barcroft J, Dornhorst AC: The blood flow through the human calf respiratory center from the contracting muscles and mov- during rhythmic exercise, J Physiol 109:402, 1949.) ing joints. All this extra nervous stimulation of respiration is normally sufficient to provide the necessary increase in pulmonary ventilation required to keep the blood oxygen great increase in flow—about 13-f old—but also the flow and carbon dioxide very near to normal. decrease during each muscle contraction. Two points can Effect of Smoking on Pulmonary Ventilation in Exercise. be made from this study: It is widely known that smoking can decrease an athlete’s 1. The actual contractile process itself temporarily de- “wind.” This is true for many reasons: creases muscle blood flow because the contracting 1. One effect of nicotine is constriction of terminal bron- skeletal muscle compresses the intramuscular blood chioles of the lungs, which increases the resistance of vessels;
