Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


flow because the contracting 1. One effect of nicotine is constriction of terminal bron- skeletal muscle compresses the intramuscular blood chioles of the lungs, which increases the resistance of vessels; therefore, strong tonic muscle contractions can airflow into and out of the lungs. cause rapid muscle fatigue because of lack of delivery of 2. The irritating effects of smoke cause increased fluid se- enough oxygen and other nutrients during the continu- cretion into the bronchial tree, as well as some swelling ous contraction. of the epithelial linings. 2. The blood flow to muscles during exercise increases mark- 3. Nicotine paralyzes the cilia on the surfaces of respira- edly. The following comparison shows the maximal in- tory epithelial cells that normally beat continuously crease in blood flow that can occur in a well- trained athlete: to remove excess fluids and foreign particles from the respiratory passageways. As a result, much debris ac- ml/100 g Muscle/min cumulates in the passageways and adds further to the Resting blood flow 3.6 difficulty of breathing. Blood flow during maximal 90 After putting all these factors together, even a light exercise smoker often feels respiratory strain during maximal exer- cise, and the level of performance may be reduced. Thus, muscle blood flow can increase a maximum of about Much more severe are the effects of chronic smoking. 25- fold during the most strenuous exercise. Almost one- There are few chronic smokers in whom some degree of half this increase in flow results from intramuscular vaso- emphysema does not develop. In this disease, the following dilation caused by the direct effects of increased muscle mechanisms occur: (1) chronic bronchitis, (2) obstruction metabolism, as explained in Chapter 21. The remaining of many of the terminal bronchioles, and (3) destruction of increase results from multiple factors, the most important many alveolar walls. In persons with severe emphysema, of which is probably the moderate increase in arterial blood as much as four-fifths of the respiratory membrane can be pressure that occurs in exercise, which is usually about a destroyed; then even the slightest exercise can cause res- 30% increase. The increase in pressure not only forces more piratory distress. In fact, many such patients cannot even blood through the blood vessels but also stretches the walls perform the simple feat of walking across the floor of a sin- of the arterioles and further reduces vascular resistance. gle room without gasping
