Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in cardiac output must occur by increasing the heart rate. phy during athletic training, but so does the heart. Howev- Relation of Cardiovascular Performance to V˙o 2max. er, heart enlargement and increased pumping capacity oc- During maximal exercise, both the heart rate and stroke cur mainly in the endurance types, not in the sprint types, volume are increased to about 95% of their maximal levels. of athletic training. Because the cardiac output is equal to stroke volume times Even though the heart of the marathoner is considerably heart rate, the cardiac output is about 90% of the maximum larger than that of the normal person, resting cardiac out- that the person can achieve, which is in contrast to about put is almost exactly the same as that in a normal person. 65% of maximum for pulmonary ventilation. Therefore, one However, this normal cardiac output is achieved by a large can readily see that the cardiovascular system is normally stroke volume at a reduced heart rate. Table 85- 2 compares much more limiting on V˙o 2max than is the respiratory sys- stroke volume and heart rate in the untrained person and tem because oxygen utilization by the body can never be the marathoner. more than the rate at which the cardiovascular system can Thus, the heart- pumping effectiveness of each heartbeat transport oxygen to the tissues. is 40% to 50% greater in the highly trained athlete than in For this reason, it is frequently stated that the level of the untrained person, but there is a corresponding decrease athletic performance that can be achieved by the maratho- in the heart rate at rest. ner mainly depends on the performance capability of his or 1081 )2m/nim/L( xedni caidraC )nim/L( tuptuo caidraC )nim/L( noitpmusnoc negyxO )taeb/lm( emulov ekortS )nim/staeb( etar traeH UNIT XV Unit XV Sports Physiology her heart, because this is the most limiting link in the de- This entire complex is called heatstroke, and failure to livery of adequate oxygen to the exercising muscles. There- treat it immediately can lead to death. In fact, even though fore, the 40% greater cardiac output that the marathoner the person has stopped exercising, the temperature does can achieve over the average untrained male is probably the not easily decrease, partly because at these high tempera- single most important physiological benefit of the mara- tures, the temperature- regulating mechanism often fails thoner’s training program. (see
