Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


probably the not easily decrease, partly because at these high tempera- single most important physiological benefit of the mara- tures, the temperature- regulating mechanism often fails thoner’s training program. (see Chapter 74). A second reason is that in heatstroke, Effect of Heart Disease and Old Age on Athletic the very high body temperature approximately doubles the Performance. Because of the critical limitation that the rates of all intracellular chemical reactions, thus liberating cardiovascular system places on maximal performance in still more heat. endurance athletics, one can readily understand that any The treatment of heatstroke is to reduce the body tem- type of heart disease that reduces maximal cardiac output perature as rapidly as possible. The most practical way to will cause an almost corresponding decrease in achievable reduce the body temperature is to remove all clothing, total body muscle power. Therefore, a person with conges- maintain a spray of cool water on all surfaces of the body tive heart failure frequently has difficulty achieving even or continually sponge the body, and blow air over the body the muscle power required to climb out of bed, much less with a fan. Experiments have shown that this treatment to walk across the floor. can reduce the temperature either as rapidly or almost as The maximal cardiac output of older people also de- rapidly as any other procedure, although some physicians creases considerably; there is as much as a 50% decrease be- prefer total immersion of the body in water containing a tween ages 18 and 80 years. Also, there is even more of a de- mush of crushed ice, if available. crease in maximal breathing capacity. For these reasons, as Body Fluids and Salt in Exercise well as because of reduced skeletal muscle mass, the maxi- mal achievable muscle power is greatly reduced in old age. As much as a 5- to 10- pound weight loss has been recorded Body Heat in Exercise in athletes in a period of 1 hour during endurance athletic events under hot and humid conditions. Essentially all this Almost all the energy released by the body’s metabolism of weight loss results from loss of sweat. Loss of enough sweat nutrients is eventually converted into body heat. This ap- to decrease body weight only 3% can significantly dimin- plies even to the energy that causes muscle contraction for ish a person’s performance, and a 5% to 10% rapid
