Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ap- to decrease body weight only 3% can significantly dimin- plies even to the energy that causes muscle contraction for ish a person’s performance, and a 5% to 10% rapid decrease the following reasons: First, the maximal efficiency for con- in weight can often be serious, leading to muscle cramps, version of nutrient energy into muscle work, even under nausea, and other adverse effects. Therefore, it is essential the best of conditions, is only 20% to 25%; the remainder of to replace fluid as it is lost. the nutrient energy is converted into heat during the course Replacement of Sodium Chloride and Potassium. Be- of the intracellular chemical reactions. Second, almost all cause sweat contains a large amount of sodium chloride, it the energy that does go into creating muscle work still be- has long been stated that all athletes should take salt (so- comes body heat because all but a small portion of this en- dium chloride) tablets when performing exercise on hot ergy is used for (1) overcoming viscous resistance to the and humid days. However, overuse of salt tablets has of- movement of the muscles and joints, (2) overcoming the ten done as much harm as good. Furthermore, if an athlete friction of the blood flowing through the blood vessels, and becomes acclimatized to the heat by progressive increase (3) other, similar effects, all of which convert the muscle in athletic exposure over a period of 1 to 2 weeks rather contractile energy into heat. than performing maximal athletic feats on the first day, the Now, recognizing that the oxygen consumption by the sweat glands also become acclimatized, so the amount of body can increase as much as 20-f old in the well- trained salt lost in the sweat becomes only a small fraction of that athlete and that the amount of heat liberated in the body is lost before acclimatization. This sweat gland acclimatiza- almost exactly proportional to the oxygen consumption (as tion results mainly from increased aldosterone secretion by discussed in Chapter 73), one quickly realizes that tremen- the adrenal cortex. The aldosterone in turn has a direct ef- dous amounts of heat are injected into the internal body fect on the sweat glands, increasing reabsorption of sodium tissues when performing endurance athletic events. Next, chloride from the sweat before the sweat issues forth from with a vast rate of heat flow into the body,
