Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


reabsorption of sodium tissues when performing endurance athletic events. Next, chloride from the sweat before the sweat issues forth from with a vast rate of heat flow into the body, on a very hot the sweat gland tubules onto the surface of the skin. Once and humid day that prevents the sweating mechanism from the athlete is acclimatized, only rarely do salt supplements eliminating the heat, an intolerable and even lethal condi- need to be considered during athletic events. tion called heatstroke can develop in the athlete. Exercise- associated hyponatremia (low plasma sodium Heatstroke. During endurance athletics, even under concentration) can sometimes occur after sustained physi- normal environmental conditions, the body temperature cal exertion. In fact, severe hyponatremia can be an impor- often rises from its normal level of 98.6°F to 102°F or 103°F tant cause of fatalities in endurance athletes. As noted in (37°C to 40°C). With very hot and humid conditions or Chapter 25, severe hyponatremia can cause tissue edema, excess clothing, the body temperature can rise to 106°F to especially in the brain, which can be lethal. In persons who 108°F (41°C to 42°C). At this level, the elevated tempera- experience life- threatening hyponatremia after heavy exer- ture becomes destructive to tissue cells, especially the brain cise, the main cause is not simply the loss of sodium due to cells. When this phenomenon occurs, multiple symptoms sweating; instead, the hyponatremia is often due to inges- begin to appear, including extreme weakness, exhaustion, tion of hypotonic fluid (water or sports drinks that usually headache, dizziness, nausea, profuse sweating, confusion, have a sodium concentration of less than 18 mmol/L) in staggering gait, collapse, and unconsciousness. excess of sweat, urine, and insensible (mainly respiratory) 1082 Chapter 85 Sports Physiology fluid losses. This excess fluid consumption can be driven by studies have shown mortality to be three times less in the thirst but also may be due to conditioned behavior that is most fit people than in the least fit people. based on recommendations to drink fluid during exercise Why does body fitness prolong life? The following rea- to avoid dehydration. Copious supplies of water are also sons are some of the most important. generally available in marathons, triathlons, and other en- Body fitness and weight control greatly reduce cardiovas- durance athletic events. cular disease. This results from (1) maintenance of moderately Experience by military units exposed to heavy exercise lower
