Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


en- Body fitness and weight control greatly reduce cardiovas- durance athletic events. cular disease. This results from (1) maintenance of moderately Experience by military units exposed to heavy exercise lower blood pressure and (2) reduced blood cholesterol and in the desert has demonstrated still another electrolyte low- density lipoprotein along with increased high-d ensity problem—the loss of potassium. Potassium loss results lipoprotein. As pointed out earlier, these changes all work partly from the increased secretion of aldosterone during together to reduce the number of heart attacks, brain strokes, heat acclimatization, which increases the loss of potassium and kidney disease. in the urine, as well as in the sweat. As a consequence of The athletically fit person has more bodily reserves to these findings, some of the supplemental fluids for athlet- call on when he or she does become sick. For example, an ics contain properly proportioned amounts of potassium 80- year- old, nonfit person may have a respiratory system that along with sodium, usually in the form of fruit juices. limits oxygen delivery to the tissues to no more than 1 L/min; this means a respiratory reserve of no more than 3-f old to 4- Drugs and Athletes fold. However, an athletically fit old person may have twice Without belaboring this issue, let us list some of the effects as much reserve. This extra reserve is especially important in of drugs in athletics. preserving life when the older person experiences conditions First, some persons believe that caffeine increases ath- such as pneumonia that can rapidly require all available respir- letic performance. In one experiment performed by a atory reserve. In addition, the ability to increase cardiac output marathon runner, running time for the marathon was im- in times of need (the “cardiac reserve”) is often 50% greater proved by 7% through judicious use of caffeine in amounts in the athletically fit old person than in the nonfit old person. similar to those found in one to three cups of coffee. Yet Exercise and overall body fitness also reduce the risk for experiments by other investigators have failed to confirm several chronic metabolic disorders associated with obesi- any advantage, thus leaving this issue in doubt. ty, such as insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. Moderate Second, use of male sex hormones (androgens) or other exercise, even in the absence of significant weight loss, has anabolic steroids to increase muscle strength undoubt-
