Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


type 2 diabetes. Moderate Second, use of male sex hormones (androgens) or other exercise, even in the absence of significant weight loss, has anabolic steroids to increase muscle strength undoubt- been shown to improve insulin sensitivity and reduce, or edly can increase athletic performance under some con- in some cases eliminate, the need for insulin treatment in ditions, especially in women and even in men. However, patients with type 2 diabetes. anabolic steroids also greatly increase the risk of cardio- Improved body fitness also reduces the risk for several vascular disease because they often cause hypertension, types of cancers, including breast, prostate, and colon can- decreased high-d ensity blood lipoproteins, and increased cer. Much of the beneficial effects of exercise may be related low- density lipoproteins, all of which promote heart at- to a reduction in obesity. However, studies in animals used tacks and strokes. in experiments and in humans have also shown that regular In men, any type of male sex hormone preparation also exercise reduces the risk for many chronic diseases through leads to decreased testicular function, including both de- mechanisms that are, at least to some extent, independent creased formation of sperm and decreased secretion of of weight loss or decreased adiposity. the person’s own natural testosterone, with residual effects sometimes lasting at least for many months and perhaps in- definitely. In a woman, even more significant effects such as Bibliography facial hair, a bass voice, ruddy skin, and cessation of menses Blaauw B, Schiaffino S, Reggiani C: Mechanisms modulating skeletal can occur because she is not normally adapted to the male muscle phenotype. Compr Physiol 3:1645, 2013. sex hormone. Booth FW, Roberts CK, Thyfault JP, et al: Role of inactivity in chronic Other drugs, such as amphetamines and cocaine, have diseases: evolutionary insight and pathophysiological mechanisms. been reputed to increase athletic performance. It is equally Physiol Rev 97:1351, 2017. true that overuse of these drugs can lead to deterioration Del Buono MG, Arena R, Borlaug BA, et al: Exercise intolerance in of performance. Furthermore, experiments have failed to patients with heart failure: JACC state-o f- the- art review. J Am Coll prove the value of these drugs except as a psychic stimu- Cardiol 73:2209, 2019. Diaz- Canestro C, Montero D: Sex dimorphism of VO trainability: lant. Some athletes have been known to die during athletic 2max a systematic review and meta-a nalysis. Sports Med 49:1949, 2019.
