Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


Overview This guideline covers diagnosing and treating an aneurysmal (caused by a ruptured aneurysm) subarachnoid haemorrhage and its complications. It provides recommendations to improve diagnosis and ensure that the most effective treatments are offered. It includes guidance on follow-up care and information for people (aged 16 and over) who have had an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage, their families and carers. Who is it for? • Healthcare professionals • Commissioners and providers of healthcare services for people with a suspected or confirmed subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm • People with an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage, their families and carers Recommendations People have the right to be involved in discussions and make informed decisions about their care, as described in NICE's information on making decisions about your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of our recommendations, and has information about prescribing medicines (including off-label use), professional guidelines, standards and laws (including on consent and mental capacity), and safeguarding. 1.1 Assessment and diagnosis NICE has also produced a visual summary of the recommendations on diagnosis. Assessment and referral for diagnostic investigations Initial assessment 1.1.1 Be aware that urgent investigation to confirm a diagnosis of subarachnoid haemorrhage facilitates early treatment to prevent rebleeding from a ruptured aneurysm and minimises disability and death. 1.1.2 When carrying out an initial assessment in a person who presents with unexplained acute severe headache: • have a high index of suspicion for subarachnoid haemorrhage • take a careful history to establish the rate of onset and time to peak intensity of the headache. 1.1.3 Bear in mind that: • A 'thunderclap' headache (a sudden severe headache, typically peaking in intensity within 1 to 5 minutes) is a red-flag symptom of subarachnoid haemorrhage. • Thunderclap headache is associated with other conditions or causes such as migraine, cough, coitus or exertion. Most people with a thunderclap headache do not have a subarachnoid haemorrhage, but this should not deter further investigation if subarachnoid haemorrhage is suspected. • People with subarachnoid haemorrhage can present with a range of non- specific symptoms and signs and are at greater risk of a diagnosis being missed. Other symptoms and signs of subarachnoid haemorrhage include, but are not limited to: － neck pain or stiffness － photophobia － nausea and vomiting － new symptoms or signs of altered brain function (such as reduced consciousness, seizure or
