Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


are not limited to: － neck pain or stiffness － photophobia － nausea and vomiting － new symptoms or signs of altered brain function (such as reduced consciousness, seizure or focal neurological deficit) － limited or painful neck flexion on examination. 1.1.4 If a person with a possible subarachnoid haemorrhage finds it difficult to describe their symptoms, for example because of a learning disability, language problem or altered consciousness, ask anyone who witnessed the onset of symptoms for a description (without delaying referral). 1.1.5 Refer people with suspected subarachnoid haemorrhage seen outside of acute hospital settings to an emergency department immediately for further assessment. 1.1.6 Ensure that people with suspected subarachnoid haemorrhage seen in acute hospital settings such as emergency departments are reviewed urgently by a senior clinical decision-maker to assess the person and think about alternative diagnoses. 1.1.7 Refer the person for an urgent non-contrast CT head scan if review in secondary care by a senior clinical decision-maker confirms unexplained thunderclap headache, or other signs and symptoms that suggest subarachnoid haemorrhage. Be aware that the diagnostic accuracy of CT head scans is highest within 6 hours of symptom onset. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on assessment and referral for diagnostic investigations. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: symptoms and signs and evidence review B: diagnostic accuracy of investigations. Pain relief and neurological assessment 1.1.8 Ensure that people with a suspected or confirmed subarachnoid haemorrhage are given effective pain relief, including opioid analgesia if needed. Document administration of opioid analgesia in the person's healthcare record. 1.1.9 When conducting a neurological assessment, check the person's care record and if opioid analgesia has been given, take into account its sedating and pupillary effects. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on pain relief and neurological assessment. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review D: medical management strategies. Diagnosing a subarachnoid haemorrhage 1.1.10 Diagnose a subarachnoid haemorrhage if the non-contrast CT head scan shows blood in the subarachnoid space. 1.1.11 If a CT head scan done within 6 hours of symptom onset and reported and documented by a radiologist shows no evidence of a subarachnoid
