Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


in the subarachnoid space. 1.1.11 If a CT head scan done within 6 hours of symptom onset and reported and documented by a radiologist shows no evidence of a subarachnoid haemorrhage: • do not routinely offer a lumbar puncture • think about alternative diagnoses and discuss with a senior clinical decision- maker • seek advice from a specialist. 1.1.12 If a CT head scan done more than 6 hours after symptom onset shows no evidence of a subarachnoid haemorrhage, consider a lumbar puncture. 1.1.13 Allow at least 12 hours after symptom onset before doing a lumbar puncture to diagnose a subarachnoid haemorrhage. 1.1.14 Diagnose a subarachnoid haemorrhage if the lumbar puncture sample shows evidence of elevated bilirubin (xanthochromia) on spectrophotometry. 1.1.15 Think about alternative diagnoses if the lumbar puncture sample shows no evidence of elevated bilirubin (xanthochromia) on spectrophotometry. Referral and transfer to a specialist neurosurgical centre 1.1.16 Urgently discuss with a specialist neurosurgical centre the need for transfer of care of a person with a diagnosis of subarachnoid haemorrhage to a specialist neurosurgical centre. 1.1.17 Do not use a subarachnoid haemorrhage severity score in isolation to determine the need for, or timing of, transfer of care to a specialist neurosurgical centre. Be aware that the risk of rebleeding is highest within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on diagnosing a subarachnoid haemorrhage. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: diagnostic accuracy of investigations and evidence review C: severity scoring systems. Detecting an aneurysm 1.1.18 Offer CT angiography of the head without delay to people with a confirmed diagnosis of subarachnoid haemorrhage to identify the cause of the bleeding and to guide treatment. 1.1.19 Diagnose an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage if: • CT angiography of the head shows an intracranial arterial aneurysm and • the pattern of subarachnoid blood is compatible with aneurysm rupture. 1.1.20 Seek specialist opinion without delay from an interventional neuroradiologist and neurosurgeon if: • CT angiography of the head shows an intracranial arterial aneurysm and • the pattern of subarachnoid blood is not compatible with aneurysm rupture. 1.1.21 If CT angiography of the head does not identify the cause of the subarachnoid haemorrhage and an aneurysm is still suspected, consider digital subtraction angiography (DSA), or magnetic
