Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


rupture. 1.1.21 If CT angiography of the head does not identify the cause of the subarachnoid haemorrhage and an aneurysm is still suspected, consider digital subtraction angiography (DSA), or magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) if DSA is contraindicated. 1.1.22 Diagnose an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage if: • DSA or MRA shows an intracranial arterial aneurysm and • the pattern of subarachnoid blood is compatible with aneurysm rupture. 1.1.23 Think about other diagnoses if DSA or MRA does not show an intracranial arterial aneurysm. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on detecting an aneurysm. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review K: diagnostic imaging strategies. 1.2 Managing a confirmed aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage Medical management Nimodipine 1.2.1 Consider enteral nimodipine for people with a confirmed subarachnoid haemorrhage. 1.2.2 Only use intravenous nimodipine within a specialist setting and if enteral treatment is not suitable. Reducing the risk of venous thromboembolism 1.2.3 Manage the risk of venous thromboembolism in people with an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage in line with the NICE guideline on venous thromboembolism in over 16s. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on medical management. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review D: medical management strategies. Managing the culprit aneurysm 1.2.4 An interventional neuroradiologist and a neurosurgeon should discuss the options for managing the culprit aneurysm, taking into account the person's clinical condition, the characteristics of the aneurysm, and the amount and location of subarachnoid blood. They should document a proposed treatment plan based on the following options: • endovascular coiling • neurosurgical clipping • no interventional procedure, with monitoring to check for clinical improvement and reassess the options for treatment. 1.2.5 Do not use a subarachnoid haemorrhage severity score in isolation to determine the suitability of any management option. 1.2.6 If interventional treatment to secure the aneurysm is an option, offer: • endovascular coiling or • neurosurgical clipping if endovascular coiling is not suitable. 1.2.7 Discuss the proposed treatment plan and any alternative options with the person, and their family or carers if appropriate, then agree and document a final treatment plan (see recommendations 1.5.5 to 1.5.7). 1.2.8 If interventional treatment is planned, ensure that it is carried
