Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


their family or carers if appropriate, then agree and document a final treatment plan (see recommendations 1.5.5 to 1.5.7). 1.2.8 If interventional treatment is planned, ensure that it is carried out at the earliest opportunity to prevent rebleeding. Be aware that the risk of rebleeding is highest within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on managing the culprit aneurysm. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review L: interventions to prevent rebleeding, evidence review C: severity scoring systems and evidence review M: timing of interventions to prevent rebleeding. Other NICE guidance on endovascular procedures for culprit aneurysms • NICE interventional procedures guidance on endovascular insertion of an intrasaccular wire-mesh blood-flow disruption device for intracranial aneurysms • NICE interventional procedures guidance on coil embolisation of ruptured intracranial aneurysms. 1.3 Monitoring and managing complications Monitoring and investigating for deterioration Transcranial doppler monitoring for deterioration 1.3.1 Do not use transcranial doppler monitoring to guide clinical management of an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage except in the context of clinical research. Unexplained neurological deterioration 1.3.2 For people with unexplained neurological deterioration after a subarachnoid haemorrhage, offer a non-contrast CT head scan as the first diagnostic investigation to determine the cause. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on monitoring and investigating for deterioration. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review E: monitoring for raised intracranial pressure and vasospasm. Hydrocephalus 1.3.3 Base a diagnosis of acute or chronic hydrocephalus on the person's symptoms and signs, and on a comparison of current and previous CT or other brain imaging. Acute hydrocephalus 1.3.4 Consider drainage or diversion of cerebrospinal fluid for people with neurological deterioration caused by acute hydrocephalus. Chronic hydrocephalus 1.3.5 For people with persistent or progressive symptoms and a clinical diagnosis of chronic hydrocephalus, consider drainage or permanent diversion of cerebrospinal fluid. If there is uncertainty about the likely benefit of permanent diversion, consider a trial of temporary drainage to assess the need for permanent diversion. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on hydrocephalus. Full details of the evidence
