Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on hydrocephalus. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review G: detecting hydrocephalus and evidence review H: managing hydrocephalus. Delayed cerebral ischaemia 1.3.6 Ensure euvolaemia (normal blood volume) in people with delayed cerebral ischaemia after an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage and consider treatment with a vasopressor if symptoms persist. Bear in mind that clinical improvement from vasopressor treatment may be temporary. For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on delayed cerebral ischaemia. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review F: management of delayed cerebral ischaemia. 1.4 Follow-up care Follow-up care plan 1.4.1 Agree and document a plan for follow-up care with the person after their aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. Give a paper copy of the plan to the person (and their family or carers if appropriate) and include details of who to contact at the specialist centre for ongoing advice and support. 1.4.2 Include the follow-up care plan in the person's medical record and discharge correspondence. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on follow-up care plan. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review S: patient information. Rehabilitation 1.4.3 Offer rehabilitation after aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage in line with the NICE guidelines on stroke rehabilitation in adults and rehabilitation after critical illness in adults. Follow-up neuroimaging 1.4.4 Consider follow-up neuroimaging for people who have had an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage, taking into account the extent of their recovery and the suitability of further imaging. Base the choice of imaging modality, and the frequency and duration of imaging follow-up, on the: • type and outcome of any neurointervention or neurosurgery on the initial aneurysm • presence of any non-culprit aneurysms • estimated risk of further bleeding • risks of planned investigations and any subsequent interventions • person's preference. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on follow-up neuroimaging. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review O: imaging strategies for follow-up. Managing
