Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on follow-up neuroimaging. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review O: imaging strategies for follow-up. Managing non-culprit (unruptured) aneurysms 1.4.5 A multidisciplinary team (MDT) that includes an interventional neuroradiologist and a neurosurgeon should evaluate the options for managing non-culprit (unruptured) aneurysms, including: • endovascular coiling • neurosurgical clipping • conservative management and follow-up monitoring. 1.4.6 When evaluating the options for managing a non-culprit aneurysm, the MDT should take into account: • the size and location of the aneurysm • the estimated lifetime risk of the aneurysm rupturing • the estimated risk of each treatment option • any comorbidities • the person's preferences. 1.4.7 Discuss the proposed management plan and any alternative options with the person (and their family or carers as appropriate). Base the discussion on the factors listed in recommendation 1.4.6. Agree and document a final management plan. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on managing non- culprit (unruptured) aneurysms. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review P: non-culprit aneurysms. Other NICE guidance on endovascular procedures for non-culprit (unruptured) aneurysms • NICE medical technologies guidance on Pipeline Flex embolisation device with Shield Technology for the treatment of complex intracranial aneurysms • NICE interventional procedures guidance on endovascular insertion of an intrasaccular wire-mesh blood-flow disruption device for intracranial aneurysms • NICE interventional procedures guidance on coil embolisation of unruptured intracranial aneurysms. Managing other conditions after discharge from hospital Hypertension 1.4.8 Manage blood pressure in people aged 18 and over who have had an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage in line with the NICE guideline on hypertension in adults. Conditions treated with an antiplatelet or anticoagulant 1.4.9 Do not withhold treatment with antiplatelets or anticoagulants solely on the basis of an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage if the culprit aneurysm has been secured by coiling or clipping. 1.4.10 Balance the risks and benefits of treatment with an antiplatelet or anticoagulant, taking into account specialist assessment of the risk of a future subarachnoid haemorrhage. Smoking 1.4.11 Encourage people who smoke to stop, and consider smoking cessation support as set out in the recommendations on stop-smoking interventions in the NICE guideline on tobacco. Headaches 1.4.12 Assess, diagnose and manage headaches in people who have had an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage in
