Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


out in the recommendations on stop-smoking interventions in the NICE guideline on tobacco. Headaches 1.4.12 Assess, diagnose and manage headaches in people who have had an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage in line with the NICE guideline on headaches in over 12s. 1.4.13 Be aware that headaches in people with a history of aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage: • are common and generally benign • may be due to chronic hydrocephalus if the person has additional symptoms or signs such as gait disturbance, incontinence, incoordination or cognitive impairment. Seizures 1.4.14 Manage seizures in people who have recovered from an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage in line with the NICE guideline on epilepsies in children, young people and adults. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on managing other conditions after discharge from hospital. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review Q: long-term medicines for reducing the risk of subsequent subarachnoid haemorrhage and evidence review R: long-term medication for managing the consequences of subarachnoid haemorrhage. Investigations to detect aneurysms in relatives 1.4.15 Explain to people (and their families if appropriate) who have had an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage and are concerned about possible aneurysms in their relatives that: • routine testing to check for aneurysms in relatives has not been shown to save lives or prevent aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhages • testing for relatives is based on an assessment of the relative's own risk • testing is usually limited to people with at least 2 first-degree relatives (father, mother, sister or brother) who have had an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. Tell people where they can find more information about testing for relatives, such as the NHS webpage on diagnosis of brain aneurysm. For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on investigations to detect aneurysms in relatives. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are evidence review T: investigating relatives of people with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. 1.5 Information and support 1.5.1 Follow the recommendations in the section on enabling patients to actively participate in their care in the NICE guideline on patient experience in adult NHS services, including: • establishing the most effective way of communicating with the person and providing information in a format that is accessible to them •
