Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


patient experience in adult NHS services, including: • establishing the most effective way of communicating with the person and providing information in a format that is accessible to them • avoiding jargon, using words the person will understand and explaining unfamiliar words. 1.5.2 When making decisions with people about their treatment and care, follow the NICE guideline on shared decision making. 1.5.3 When supporting people who may lack capacity to make decisions about their treatment and care, follow the NICE guideline on decision making and mental capacity. 1.5.4 Adapt written and verbal information about aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage to the needs and preferences of the person (and their family or carers if appropriate). At diagnosis 1.5.5 Explain to the person (and their family or carers if appropriate) what an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage is and what the treatment options are, including their benefits and risks. During the hospital stay 1.5.6 Give the person (and their family or carers if appropriate) information about complications that can happen after an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage, such as: • a build-up of fluid on the brain (hydrocephalus) • a reduced supply of blood to the brain (delayed cerebral ischaemia) • speech or communication difficulties • physical disabilities • seizures. 1.5.7 Tell the person (and their family or carers if appropriate) that common symptoms reported by people who have had a subarachnoid haemorrhage include: • headaches, fatigue and sleep disturbances • anxiety, low moods and increased irritability • problems with memory and cognitive function • changes to smell, taste, hearing or vision. 1.5.8 Give people who wish to receive it (and their family or carers if appropriate) information about their estimated future risk of another subarachnoid haemorrhage. Base the information on specialist assessment by the MDT of the person's medical circumstances, including: • the effectiveness of the treatment of the ruptured aneurysm • the presence and growth of additional aneurysms • their smoking status. 1.5.9 Give the person advice on returning to their usual activities including work, exercise, driving and sexual activity. At discharge 1.5.10 Check that the person has been given advice about wound care and medicines, a copy of their follow-up care plan and details of who to contact at their specialist centre if they have questions or concerns. Give them details of local and national support groups. At follow-up 1.5.11 Discuss the person's return to their usual activities (see recommendation 1.5.9). For a short explanation
