Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


questions or concerns. Give them details of local and national support groups. At follow-up 1.5.11 Discuss the person's return to their usual activities (see recommendation 1.5.9). For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on information and support. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review S: patient information and evidence review N: risk of subsequent subarachnoid haemorrhage. Terms used in this guideline This section defines terms that have been used in a particular way for this guideline. Senior clinical decision-maker A clinician with the necessary training and experience to assess people with suspected subarachnoid haemorrhage, confirm subarachnoid haemorrhage symptoms and signs, and refer people for further investigation. This may be a consultant, a staff-grade, associate- specialist or specialty doctor, or a doctor in a training grade who has been delegated to do this because they have the necessary competencies. Recommendations for research The guideline committee has made the following recommendations for research. Key recommendations for research 1 Timing of CT head scans What is the relative accuracy of CT head scans at different time intervals, for example 12 hours or 24 hours after symptom onset, to diagnose subarachnoid haemorrhage? For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on diagnosing a subarachnoid haemorrhage. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: diagnostic accuracy of investigations. 2 Predictors of death and disability What variables predict death or disability for people with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage? For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on diagnosing a subarachnoid haemorrhage. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C: severity scoring systems. 3 Nimodipine What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of nimodipine in the management of aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage? For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on nimodipine. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review D: medical management strategies. 4 Novel endovascular interventions What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of novel endovascular techniques and devices such as coated coils, endoluminal flow diverters and intrasaccular devices to treat aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage? For a short explanation of why the
