Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


cost effectiveness of novel endovascular techniques and devices such as coated coils, endoluminal flow diverters and intrasaccular devices to treat aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage? For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on managing the culprit aneurysm. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review L: interventions to prevent re-bleeding. 5 Risk stratification tool to estimate risk of recurrence What is the utility of a risk stratification tool to estimate the risk of subsequent aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage? For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on information and support. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review N: risk of subsequent subarachnoid haemorrhage. Other recommendations for research 6 Interventions for aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage in people with major neurological deficit What is the outcome of intervention to prevent rebleeding in people who present with or rapidly develop severe neurological deficits as a consequence of acute aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage? For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on managing the culprit aneurysm. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review L: interventions to prevent re-bleeding. 7 Managing acute hydrocephalus What is the most clinically and cost-effective method of cerebrospinal fluid drainage or diversion (for example shunt surgery, external ventricular drain surgery or lumbar drain) for symptomatic acute hydrocephalus? For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on hydrocephalus. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: managing hydrocephalus. 8 Transcranial doppler monitoring What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of routine transcranial doppler monitoring to guide clinical management of aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage? For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on monitoring and investigating for deterioration. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review E: monitoring for raised intracranial pressure and vasospasm. 9 Intracranial hypertension What is the impact of routine monitoring of intracranial hypertension on subsequent management and outcome in people with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage who are unconscious or ventilated on an intensive care unit? For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale
