Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage who are unconscious or ventilated on an intensive care unit? For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on intracranial hypertension. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review I: detecting intracranial hypertension and evidence review J: managing intracranial hypertension. 10 Intra-arterial therapies to manage delayed cerebral ischaemia What is the impact of intra-arterial therapies to manage delayed cerebral ischaemia on outcome in people with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage? For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on delayed cerebral ischaemia. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review F: management of delayed cerebral ischaemia. 11 Vasopressors to manage delayed cerebral ischaemia What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of vasopressors to manage delayed cerebral ischaemia in people with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage? For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on delayed cerebral ischaemia. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review F: management of delayed cerebral ischaemia. 12 Blood pressure targets What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of a lower blood pressure treatment target relative to the standard blood pressure treatment target for people with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage? For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on managing other conditions after discharge from hospital. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review Q: long-term medicines for reducing the risk of subsequent subarachnoid haemorrhage. 13 Investigations for relatives What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of investigations to detect intracranial arterial aneurysms in first-degree relatives of people who have had an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage? For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on investigations to detect aneurysms in relatives. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review T: investigating relatives of people with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. Rationale and impact These sections briefly explain why the committee made the recommendations and how they might affect practice. Assessment and referral for diagnostic investigation Recommendations 1.1.1 to 1.1.7 Why the committee made the recommendations People with a suspected subarachnoid haemorrhage can present with a wide range of symptoms and
