Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


and referral for diagnostic investigation Recommendations 1.1.1 to 1.1.7 Why the committee made the recommendations People with a suspected subarachnoid haemorrhage can present with a wide range of symptoms and signs. There was little evidence to indicate which symptoms or signs specifically point to a diagnosis of subarachnoid haemorrhage. The committee agreed that the consequences of a missed diagnosis may be severe and include disability and death. Urgent investigation is required to confirm a diagnosis of subarachnoid haemorrhage and facilitate early treatment to prevent rebleeding from the ruptured aneurysm. Clinicians should therefore be alert to the possibility of subarachnoid haemorrhage in people presenting with unexplained acute severe headache, reduced consciousness, seizure, focal neurological deficit or other suggestive symptoms. Some people present with non- specific symptoms, such as nausea and vomiting, photophobia, or neck pain or stiffness. In these cases, a diagnosis of subarachnoid haemorrhage is more likely to be missed. The committee's experience indicated that a 'thunderclap' headache is a presenting symptom in most people with a subarachnoid haemorrhage. However, they noted that this type of headache is a common presentation in emergency departments and around 10% of people who present with this symptom have a diagnosis of subarachnoid haemorrhage confirmed; the majority are diagnosed with other conditions, for example, migraine. The committee agreed that other symptoms and signs are also commonly seen in people with a subarachnoid haemorrhage. These can be used, together with clinical judgement, to support clinical assessment and guide decisions on further diagnostic investigations. The committee noted that these symptoms and signs of subarachnoid haemorrhage can also be caused by a number of other conditions. Therefore, a senior clinician should confirm the assessment of subarachnoid haemorrhage and arrange immediate referral for further investigation. There is good evidence showing that non-contrast CT head scans carried out within 6 hours of symptom onset are highly accurate and can be used to rule out a diagnosis of subarachnoid haemorrhage, therefore avoiding the need for further investigation with a lumbar puncture. CT head scans done more than 6 hours after symptom onset are less accurate (see the section on diagnosing a subarachnoid haemorrhage for more information). Evidence on decision tools, including the Ottawa Subarachnoid Haemorrhage Rule for Headache Evaluation, showed that these tools have a high level of accuracy in ruling out subarachnoid haemorrhage, but are less accurate at ruling it in, with a large number of false-positive identifications. Although
