Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


that these tools have a high level of accuracy in ruling out subarachnoid haemorrhage, but are less accurate at ruling it in, with a large number of false-positive identifications. Although these tools are beneficial in ensuring that no cases are missed, over-reliance on them risks harm from unnecessary imaging and invasive investigations. The committee noted that the tools use a broad range of symptoms and signs that are not specific to subarachnoid haemorrhage. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations may be useful for non-specialist clinicians, but are not expected to lead to significant changes in practice. Non-contrast CT head scans are the usual first-line investigation for suspected subarachnoid haemorrhage, and this is not expected to change. Return to recommendations Pain relief and neurological assessment Recommendations 1.1.8 and 1.1.9 Why the committee made the recommendations Although there was limited evidence on the use of specific analgesia or sedation, the committee agreed that pain in adults with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage should be managed with analgesics in line with standard clinical practice. Headache is usually treated with simple analgesics such as paracetamol, escalating to opioids as needed. The committee agreed that the sedative and pupillary effect of opioid analgesics should be taken into account when doing a neurological assessment, but should not preclude their use. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations generally reflect current practice and are not likely to result in changes. Return to recommendations Diagnosing a subarachnoid haemorrhage Recommendations 1.1.10 to 1.1.17 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee looked at evidence on non-contrast CT head scans, lumbar puncture and MRI. In the studies, the CT scans were reviewed by either a general radiologist or a neuroradiologist. There was good evidence showing that CT head scans done within 6 hours of symptom onset have a high diagnostic accuracy. Taking into account the invasive risks of lumbar puncture, the difficulty of monitoring patients during MRI and the costs of both procedures, the committee concluded that these procedures should not be routinely offered if a CT head scan, done within 6 hours of symptom onset and reported and documented by an appropriately experienced radiologist, shows no evidence of a subarachnoid haemorrhage. In these circumstances alternative diagnoses should be considered and advice sought from a specialist, for example in neurosurgery, neuroradiology, neurology or stroke medicine. If the CT head scan is done more than 6 hours after symptom onset,
