Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


considered and advice sought from a specialist, for example in neurosurgery, neuroradiology, neurology or stroke medicine. If the CT head scan is done more than 6 hours after symptom onset, the evidence showed that diagnostic accuracy is reduced and false-negative results are more likely. The committee therefore agreed that further investigation with a lumbar puncture should be considered if a CT head scan done more than 6 hours after ictus does not confirm the diagnosis of subarachnoid haemorrhage. When a lumbar puncture is indicated, the committee agreed that it should be done at least 12 hours after symptom onset, when bilirubin formation is sufficient to be detected reliably. The committee considered that the diagnostic accuracy of earlier lumbar puncture (to detect blood in the cerebrospinal fluid) is likely to be low because it can take several hours for blood to appear in the lumbar subarachnoid sac. There was limited evidence on the relative accuracy of non-contrast CT head scanning at various time intervals greater than 6 hours after symptom onset, so the committee made a recommendation for research on timing of CT head scans. Referral and transfer to a specialist neurosurgical centre If subarachnoid haemorrhage is diagnosed, the committee noted that an urgent decision is needed on whether to transfer the person to specialist care. The committee decided to make a consensus recommendation to stress the importance of an urgent discussion with a specialist neurosurgical centre. Although evidence on a number of severity scores showed an association with morbidity and mortality, there was inconsistency across the scores and the evidence was not sufficient to recommend the use of any score on its own. The committee agreed that, although severity scoring can be a useful clinical descriptor, decisions on transfer should be based on a holistic patient assessment rather than a severity score on its own, to avoid inappropriate withholding of specialist neurosurgical care from people whose score indicates a poor clinical condition. The committee noted that evidence to support the prognostic accuracy of the severity scores was weak and made a recommendation for research on predictors of death and disability. How the recommendations might affect practice Centres that routinely perform lumbar puncture after a negative CT head scan may see a reduction in the use of lumbar puncture in people with an early negative CT head scan. Reliance on severity scoring to determine transfer to specialist centres may reduce, leading
