Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


a reduction in the use of lumbar puncture in people with an early negative CT head scan. Reliance on severity scoring to determine transfer to specialist centres may reduce, leading to more people appropriately being transferred for treatment. Return to recommendations Detecting an aneurysm Recommendations 1.1.18 to 1.1.23 Why the committee made the recommendations Evidence showed that CT angiography has a high level of accuracy in identifying aneurysms causing subarachnoid haemorrhage but evidence for the diagnostic accuracy of magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) was less compelling. CT angiography is the quickest to perform, is non-invasive, does not usually necessitate sedation or general anaesthesia and is available in most centres. MRA and DSA are more complex and time- consuming procedures that need specialist input and have a higher risk of complications. DSA is regarded as the 'gold standard' investigation and is currently commonly carried out when CT angiography is negative but there is a high suspicion of aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage, whereas the complexities involved in obtaining high-quality MRA images make this less beneficial. The committee agreed that DSA should be reserved for instances when CT angiography has not detected a suspected aneurysm. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations largely reflect current practice and are not expected to lead to changes. Return to recommendations Medical management Recommendations 1.2.1 to 1.2.3 Why the committee made the recommendations Nimodipine Although limited evidence showed some reductions in mortality, rebleeding, disability and delayed cerebral ischaemia with nimodipine, most of the evidence available was graded as low or very low quality, predominately due to imprecision of outcome data, and risk of bias. There was a high risk of uncertainty around a number of outcomes due to significant statistical imprecision around the summary effect estimates, with wide confidence intervals crossing the thresholds for clinical significance. The committee noted that the studies in the evidence review were conducted in the 1980s, with a lack of more recent evidence. In most of the studies, nimodipine was commenced up to 96 hours after ictus and continued for up to 3 weeks before neurosurgical management. Therefore, the committee had reservations about the applicability of this evidence to current practice, in which people with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage are frequently treated by endovascular coiling within 48 hours of ictus. The committee could not be sure that the benefits from nimodipine are maintained with current treatments to secure the ruptured aneurysm, but they agreed
