Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


coiling within 48 hours of ictus. The committee could not be sure that the benefits from nimodipine are maintained with current treatments to secure the ruptured aneurysm, but they agreed that, without evidence of significant harms, a recommendation to consider nimodipine was appropriate in the acute management of aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. The committee noted that the use of nimodipine is entrenched in clinical practice and was surprised at the lack of more compelling contemporary evidence for the use of enteral nimodipine in the management of aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. The lack of recent evidence influenced their decision to make a weak recommendation for the use of nimodipine. The committee also made a recommendation for research on nimodipine to determine its place in current practice. Most of the evidence related to the use of oral nimodipine but some was drawn from studies that included intravenous nimodipine. The committee were aware that intravenous nimodipine has a high cost and were uncertain whether it is likely to be cost effective in patients who are unconscious or ventilated, or unable to swallow. The committee were also aware that some clinicians recommend administration of crushed nimodipine tablets to these patients via a nasogastric tube to avoid the need to use intravenous nimodipine. The committee noted that intravenous nimodipine may be useful for patients in whom poor absorption of the drug is suspected. Based on these observations and their experience, the committee agreed that intravenous nimodipine should be reserved for patients in whom enteral administration is not suitable. Reducing the risk of venous thromboembolism The committee noted that NICE's guideline on reducing the risk of hospital-acquired venous thromboembolism (VTE) includes assessment of bleeding risk and alternatives to pharmacological VTE prophylaxis, and is therefore suitable for people admitted to hospital with a subarachnoid haemorrhage before their aneurysm is secured and after it is secured. Short-course tranexamic acid Evidence on tranexamic acid in the management of aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage was mixed, and most was from small studies from the 1970s and 1980s. Some of the evidence suggested that short courses of intravenous tranexamic acid started immediately after diagnosis and before a planned intervention (endovascular coiling or neurosurgical clipping) reduce the risks of rebleeding. However, there was no evidence showing that they reduce death or disability. The committee were aware that short-course tranexamic acid is occasionally used in current practice if interventional treatment to secure the aneurysm is suitable but
