Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


that they reduce death or disability. The committee were aware that short-course tranexamic acid is occasionally used in current practice if interventional treatment to secure the aneurysm is suitable but not available within a short time frame. However, the committee agreed that the administration of tranexamic acid should not delay interventional treatment to secure the aneurysm. How the recommendations might affect practice Nimodipine The recommendation is not expected to substantially change the current practice of giving nimodipine after an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. Reducing the risk of venous thromboembolism The recommendation is not expected to change current practice. Return to recommendations Managing the culprit aneurysm Recommendations 1.2.4 to 1.2.8 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee noted that around half of people who survive an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage will have a second bleed from the culprit aneurysm within weeks, and the mortality from a second bleed can exceed 50%. Interventional treatment with endovascular coiling or neurosurgical clipping, if suitable, can secure the aneurysm and prevent rebleeding. The committee acknowledged that interventional treatment is not suitable for some people who have a major neurological deficit after an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage, and that the costs of long-term nursing care or rehabilitation can be considerable. Very little evidence was found for this group, so the committee made a recommendation for research on interventions for aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage in people with major neurological deficit. Severity scoring systems might help clinicians identify people for whom intervention is likely to be justified, but none of the severity scoring systems currently in use reliably predicts morbidity and mortality in people with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. In addition, the committee agreed that clinical state and severity score can vary over time, especially soon after symptom onset. Decisions on clinical management should therefore be based on a holistic patient assessment rather than solely on a severity score. Factors that should be considered by clinicians and discussed with the patient include: neurological status, performance status and comorbidities. The evidence was not sufficient to determine the clinical effectiveness of endovascular coiling compared with neurosurgical clipping, although a small amount of evidence suggested that endovascular coiling might be more beneficial. Endovascular coiling is less invasive and potentially safer, so the committee agreed that it should be offered as the first option, taking factors such as aneurysm characteristics and the amount and location of subarachnoid blood into account. The committee agreed that neurosurgical clipping
