Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


it should be offered as the first option, taking factors such as aneurysm characteristics and the amount and location of subarachnoid blood into account. The committee agreed that neurosurgical clipping should be considered if endovascular coiling is not a suitable treatment option. They stressed that any procedure to secure the aneurysm should be performed without delay to minimise the risk of rebleeding. Newer, more expensive interventional technologies are being used but there is little evidence on their effectiveness, so the committee made a recommendation for research on novel endovascular interventions. How the recommendations might affect practice Endovascular coiling accounts for around 75% of interventions done in current practice and the recommendation is not expected to change this. Most interventions are carried out within 48 hours of admission. However, this may vary according to the availability of interventional neuroradiologists and vascular neurosurgeons, and the capacity of neurosurgical centres. For people admitted during weekends, endovascular coiling should be available from the same interventional neuroradiology teams who will provide thrombectomy for stroke, in line with the recommendations on thrombectomy in the NICE guideline on stroke and transient ischaemic attack in over 16s. However, provision of neurosurgical clipping during weekends may necessitate changes to services such as the setting up of appropriate networks. Return to recommendations Monitoring and investigating for deterioration Recommendations 1.3.1 and 1.3.2 Why the committee made the recommendations There was no evidence on the routine use of direct intracranial pressure monitoring for raised intracranial pressure. Very limited evidence from 1 study on transcranial doppler monitoring for vasospasm suggested an increase in mortality, morbidity and length of hospital stay compared with no transcranial doppler monitoring. The committee agreed that these outcomes were unlikely to be directly caused by the transcranial doppler monitoring. However, they were concerned that such monitoring might influence subsequent decisions, for example about investigations or interventions, and so indirectly affect outcomes. They therefore agreed that transcranial doppler monitoring should only be used in the context of clinical research. The committee noted that there is increasing enthusiasm for the use of this modality and made a recommendation for research on transcranial doppler monitoring. There was no evidence on the investigation of unexplained neurological deterioration in people with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. The committee agreed that in current practice unexplained neurological deterioration is initially investigated with a non-contrast CT scan, which can indicate the cause of deterioration including ventricular enlargement suggestive of
