Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


The committee agreed that in current practice unexplained neurological deterioration is initially investigated with a non-contrast CT scan, which can indicate the cause of deterioration including ventricular enlargement suggestive of hydrocephalus, cerebral ischaemia, intracranial haematoma or evidence of rebleeding. How the recommendations might affect practice In current practice the use of transcranial doppler monitoring varies widely. The recommendation is likely to stop this type of monitoring in centres that use it in routine practice. CT head scans are used to investigate unexplained neurological deterioration in current practice and the recommendation will not affect this. Return to recommendations Hydrocephalus Recommendations 1.3.3 to 1.3.5 Why the committee made the recommendations Acute hydrocephalus There was no evidence on diagnosing acute hydrocephalus. Based on their experience, the committee agreed that hydrocephalus is suspected on the basis of symptoms and signs of raised intracranial pressure such as an altered level of consciousness or neurological deterioration, and that the diagnosis should be confirmed by comparing a CT head scan with previous CT or other head scans to show an increase in the size of the ventricular system. The committee agreed that MRI offers no advantage over CT for diagnosing hydrocephalus in people with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage, is more expensive and is a difficult procedure for people who are unwell. The committee noted that acute hydrocephalus can lead to severe disability or death if not treated promptly by drainage or diversion of cerebrospinal fluid. There was no evidence on the effectiveness of different techniques for drainage or diversion in acute hydrocephalus. The committee agreed that either drainage or diversion could be considered. They also made a recommendation for research on managing acute hydrocephalus. Chronic hydrocephalus There was little evidence to inform recommendations on diagnosing and managing chronic hydrocephalus. Based on their experience, the committee agreed that chronic hydrocephalus is uncommon and typically presents several weeks or months after an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage, with reduced consciousness, gait disturbance or other neurological symptoms. As with acute hydrocephalus, the committee agreed that chronic hydrocephalus is suspected based on symptoms and signs and a diagnosis should be confirmed based on a comparison of current CT head scans with previous CT or other head scans. In current clinical practice most people with persisting or progressive symptoms and radiological evidence of ventricular dilatation are offered drainage of cerebrospinal fluid, which improves symptoms in the majority. If the likelihood of symptom improvement is uncertain,
