Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


persisting or progressive symptoms and radiological evidence of ventricular dilatation are offered drainage of cerebrospinal fluid, which improves symptoms in the majority. If the likelihood of symptom improvement is uncertain, some clinicians advocate a trial of temporary drainage, for example, serial lumbar punctures, before considering permanent diversion of cerebrospinal fluid. The committee agreed with this approach. The committee discussed making a recommendation for research on chronic hydrocephalus but concluded that research in this area might not be feasible within a reasonable time frame and have little impact on clinical practice. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations reflect current practice. Return to recommendations Intracranial hypertension Recommendation for research Why the committee did not make a recommendation There was little evidence on diagnosing and treating intracranial hypertension. The committee agreed that the diagnostic accuracies of transcranial doppler and ultrasound measurement of optic nerve sheath diameter are too low for reliable detection of intracranial hypertension when compared with direct intracranial pressure measurement. The committee also acknowledged that there is no evidence that interventions to lower intracranial pressure improve clinical outcome. The committee agreed that raised intracranial pressure is common in people with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage, but intracranial hypertension that impedes blood flow to the brain and contributes to brain injury is generally only seen in the most severely ill. These people are usually unconscious or need ventilation in an intensive care unit. They are a heterogeneous population and management varies widely, with some clinicians advocating routine monitoring of intracranial pressure to guide intervention (such as drainage of cerebrospinal fluid, hypertonic saline or vasopressor therapy) to lower intracranial pressure and maintain cerebral perfusion. Other clinicians favour management without intracranial pressure monitoring. Intracranial pressure can be monitored by inserting an intracranial pressure bolt or using an external ventricular drain inserted to manage acute hydrocephalus. The committee acknowledged that insertion of a pressure bolt is associated with risk, and monitoring of intracranial pressure will only improve outcome if it leads to effective intervention. The committee debated the variation in current practice and were not able to reach a consensus on the role of interventions to diagnose and treat intracranial hypertension, and so they made a recommendation for research. Return to recommendation for research Delayed cerebral ischaemia Recommendation 1.3.6 Why the committee made the recommendation There was very little evidence on delayed cerebral ischaemia so the committee based the recommendation on their clinical experience. They
