Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


cerebral ischaemia Recommendation 1.3.6 Why the committee made the recommendation There was very little evidence on delayed cerebral ischaemia so the committee based the recommendation on their clinical experience. They noted that current practice for managing delayed cerebral ischaemia is to maintain cerebral blood flow to prevent or limit cerebral infarction. Intravenous fluid is usually given to ensure euvolemia and if symptoms persist a vasopressor is administered to raise systemic blood pressure. The committee agreed with this approach, but added that the improvements seen after these measures may be temporary, and there was no evidence of impact on longer-term outcomes. Treatment for people whose condition is not improved by vasopressor therapy varies widely. Some clinicians recommend cerebral angiography and intra-arterial therapies, including intra-arterial vasodilators and angioplasty. However, the committee were unable to reach a consensus on the use of intra-arterial therapies. They made recommendations for research on intra-arterial therapies to manage delayed cerebral ischaemia and vasopressors to manage delayed cerebral ischaemia. How the recommendation might affect practice The recommendation reflects current practice. Return to recommendation Follow-up care plan Recommendations 1.4.1 and 1.4.2 Why the committee made the recommendations Evidence from surveys and interviews with people who had an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage showed that those who did not receive clear information about their medical care after discharge felt anxious and 'abandoned'. Those who were given this information, together with details of who to contact for ongoing advice, said they felt more supported. The committee agreed that the follow-up care plan should be included in the person's medical record and discharge correspondence. How the recommendations might affect practice The amount and quality of information given to people about follow-up care after an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage varies. This recommendation can be expected to improve the provision of this information. Return to recommendations Follow-up neuroimaging Recommendation 1.4.4 Why the committee made the recommendation No clinical evidence was found on follow-up neuroimaging. Based on their knowledge and experience, the committee agreed that there is a risk of aneurysm recurrence, progression of non-culprit aneurysms and formation of new aneurysms. They agreed that follow-up imaging should be considered, based on the person's clinical situation and risk factors. How the recommendation might affect practice The recommendation reflects current practice. Return to recommendation Managing non-culprit (unruptured) aneurysms Recommendations 1.4.5 to 1.4.7 Why the committee made the recommendations There was not enough good evidence to enable the committee to recommend
