Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


practice. Return to recommendation Managing non-culprit (unruptured) aneurysms Recommendations 1.4.5 to 1.4.7 Why the committee made the recommendations There was not enough good evidence to enable the committee to recommend a preferred management option for non-culprit aneurysms, although they agreed that the risk of a non-culprit aneurysm rupturing is higher in people who have had an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage than those who have not. Based on their experience, the committee agreed that the overall probability of a non-culprit aneurysm rupturing is low, so interventional treatment of all non-culprit aneurysms is unlikely to be a cost-effective strategy. They agreed that conservative management usually includes monitoring of the aneurysm with MRA to detect changes in the aneurysm's size or shape. The committee were in agreement that the frequency of monitoring should be based on a balance between the risks of aneurysm rupture and the risks of interventional treatment, and take into account multidisciplinary team, neuroradiological and neurosurgical opinion, and the person's preferences. The committee's experience was that people with unruptured aneurysms who are offered conservative management are often anxious about the possibility of a future rupture. They therefore recommended that all treatment options be discussed with the person. How the recommendations might affect practice Current management of unruptured aneurysms varies. The recommendations are not expected to lead to substantial changes in practice. Return to recommendations Managing other conditions after discharge from hospital Recommendations 1.4.8 to 1.4.14 Why the committee made the recommendations Hypertension Uncontrolled hypertension is recognised to be a risk factor for aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage and may pose a greater risk to people with a history of this type of stroke. The committee agreed that blood pressure should be controlled in line with the NICE guideline on hypertension in adults. There was no evidence on long-term blood pressure control specifically for people with a history of aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage, so the committee made a recommendation for research on blood pressure targets. Conditions treated with an antiplatelet or anticoagulant There was little evidence about the effect of an antiplatelet or anticoagulant on the risk of recurrent intracranial bleeding. The committee agreed that, in their experience, these medicines are safe for people with a secured aneurysm following an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. For people with a higher risk of recurrence, specialist advice should be sought to judge the balance between the risk of recurrent or new intracranial bleeding and the risk of athero-embolic events.
