Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


with a higher risk of recurrence, specialist advice should be sought to judge the balance between the risk of recurrent or new intracranial bleeding and the risk of athero-embolic events. Smoking The committee noted that smoking can be a risk factor for an initial subarachnoid haemorrhage. They agreed that smoking cessation interventions, in addition to benefiting general health, may also reduce the risk of recurrent subarachnoid haemorrhage. Headaches The committee agreed, based on their experience, that people who develop headaches after recovering from an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage can become anxious and worry that their headache indicates new aneurysmal bleeding or a complication of the treatment they had for their aneurysm. This can lead to morbidity, multiple presentations to healthcare professionals and unnecessary investigations. There was no evidence on specific long-term medicines to relieve headaches as a consequence of subarachnoid haemorrhage. The committee agreed that headache should be assessed, diagnosed and managed in line with NICE's guideline on headaches in over 12s. The committee agreed, based on their experience, that headaches are common and generally benign in people who have had a subarachnoid haemorrhage, but in some people may indicate chronic hydrocephalus. Seizures The committee agreed that people who have had an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage have an increased risk of seizures and epilepsy. There was no evidence on the use of long-term antiseizure medicines to prevent or relieve seizures in this population. They agreed that seizures after an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage should be treated in line with NICE's guidance on diagnosing and managing epilepsies. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations on hypertension, smoking, headaches and seizures are not expected to change practice. The recommendations on managing conditions treated with antiplatelets or anticoagulants may reduce delays in prescribing these medicines for people who have had a successfully treated aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. Although specialist input may be needed, this is not expected to have a large impact on services. Return to recommendations Investigations to detect aneurysms in relatives Recommendation 1.4.15 Why the committee made the recommendation No evidence was found on investigating relatives for intracranial aneurysms. The committee recognised that first-degree relatives of people who have had an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage are at higher risk of intracranial arterial aneurysm than the general population. The committee agreed that investigating for aneurysms in first-degree relatives may produce health benefits but could also lead to harm, including unnecessary anxiety and a consequent increase in
