Subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: committee, subarachnoid, haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, evidence, people, recommendations, aneurysmal, aneurysmal subarachnoid, practice, recommendation, aneurysm, risk, agreed, intracranial


general population. The committee agreed that investigating for aneurysms in first-degree relatives may produce health benefits but could also lead to harm, including unnecessary anxiety and a consequent increase in visits to GPs and emergency departments. Moreover, the optimal timing and frequency of investigations to detect and monitor intracranial aneurysms in first-degree relatives is unknown. The committee were aware that the NHS does not currently support routine screening for intracranial arterial aneurysms in relatives and any change in NHS policy could have a significant resource impact. The committee acknowledged that in current practice investigation is typically only recommended for people thought to have a significant risk of having a brain aneurysm that could rupture at some point in the future, and this would usually only apply to people with 2 or more first-degree relatives who have had an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. This reflects the advice given on the NHS website on screening for brain aneurysms. The committee agreed that the lack of evidence for routine testing of relatives and current practice on testing should be explained to people who have had a subarachnoid haemorrhage, and their families as appropriate. Given the importance of this issue and the lack of evidence, the committee made a recommendation for research on investigations for relatives. How the recommendation might affect practice The recommendation is not expected to lead to a change in practice. Return to recommendation Information and support Recommendations 1.5.1 to 1.5.11 Why the committee made the recommendations Evidence from studies using surveys and interviews with people who have had an aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage showed that they value information that is clear, concise and tailored to their own needs. Participants in the studies highlighted how difficult it was to remember information given to them verbally at the time of hospital admission and the need to have this information in a written form that they can take home at discharge. They also stressed the importance of information about their medical care and what to expect after discharge, including common symptoms, possible complications and where they can get advice and support. The committee used their experience to agree topics that should be included, as a minimum, in the information given. They highlighted the importance of ease of access to information for people throughout their care pathway. In the committee's experience, some people want information about the risk of recurrence of subarachnoid haemorrhage and some do
