Non-Diabetic Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, pubmed, insulin, patients, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, symptoms, article pubmed, prandial, low, response


ABSTRACT Objective: To review the diagnosis, evaluation, and management of non-diabetic hypoglycemia in adults. Methods: A literature review using PubMed and Google Scholar was performed. In absence of data, clinical expert opinion was provided. Results: Hypoglycemia in an individual without diabetes is uncommon mainly because of a tightly regulated counterregulatory physiological response. A detailed medical history, review of medications and physical exam findings are critical first steps in providing guidance for further investigation in a non-diabetic person with documented hypoglycemia based on Whipple’s triad (presence of symptoms when plasma glucose concentrations are low and absence of symptoms with normalized glycemia). In this review, we highlight strategies to diagnose and treat hypoglycemic disorders in non-diabetic individuals based on underlying mechanisms. Conclusion: Evaluation and management of non-diabetic hypoglycemia should be individualized based on clinical presentation and suspected diagnoses. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION In healthy humans, glucose concentrations are efficiently maintained within a narrow range by the physiological mechanisms that respond to intermittent exogenous nutrient ingestion by enhancing glucose utilization and respond to intervals of nutrient deprivation by enhancing glucose production. Deviation of glucose from the normal range in both hyper or hypoglycemia only occurs when physiological mechanisms involved in maintaining the balance between the glucose utilization and the glucose production fail. As such, hypoglycemia is a manifestation of a heterogeneous group of underlying disorders that increase glucose utilization or reduce glucose production or a combination of both. While hypoglycemia in persons without diabetes is relatively rare ( 1 ), the clinical relevance of this condition regarding patient safety, cognitive function, and quality of life is undeniable. Depending on severity and duration, hypoglycemia also can be fatal ( 2 ). Furthermore, hypoglycemia blunts defense against subsequent hypoglycemia leading to a vicious cycle of recurrent hypoglycemia ( 3 ), which in turn not only exaggerates related morbidities but also makes the diagnosis more complex. Here, we review the current recommendations regarding diagnosis, pathophysiology, and management of hypoglycemia in non-diabetic individuals. Hypoglycemia in the pediatric population, hypoglycemia caused by anti-diabetic medications, and a comprehensive review of insulinomas can be found in the Endotext chapters entitled “Hypoglycemia in Neonates, Infants, and Children” ( 4 ), “Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes” ( 5 ) and “Insulinoma” ( 6 ), respectively. PHYSIOLOGY / PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Glucose is the main fuel for the brain since it
