Non-Diabetic Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, pubmed, insulin, patients, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, symptoms, article pubmed, prandial, low, response


( 4 ), “Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes” ( 5 ) and “Insulinoma” ( 6 ), respectively. PHYSIOLOGY / PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Glucose is the main fuel for the brain since it cannot store glycogen or synthesize glucose ( 7 , 8 ). To minimize any disturbance in glucose supplies to the brain and cerebral function, therefore, redundant but very efficient physiological counter-regulatory responses are in place to prevent or correct hypoglycemia ( 8 - 10 ). Prandial In the prandial condition, the extent of glycemic excursion (difference between glycemic peak and nadir concentrations) is determined by the pace of food transition from the stomach into the gut (gastric emptying) as well as the net hepatic and extrahepatic glucose uptake ( 11 ). In healthy subjects, during the first 30-60 min of an oral glucose or mixed tolerance meal test, plasma glucose and insulin concentrations rise, shifting the hepatic net glucose output during fasting condition to net glucose uptake during the prandial state ( 12 ). As a result of changes in glucose kinetics in the early absorptive phase of glucose/mixed meal ingestion, plasma glucose concentrations start to decline in the latter absorptive phase falling below premeal levels in parallel with reduction in ingested glucose delivery to the gut. The regulatory mechanisms that are responsible for preventing hypoglycemia and restoring euglycemia during the transition of glucose flux from the ingested glucose delivery to the hepatic glucose production are not fully characterized, but both hormonal and non-hormonal factors play a role ( 13 ). Fasting In the fasting or postabsorptive state (4-6 hours after nutrient ingestion), plasma glucose concentrations range from 80-90 mg/dl and rates of glucose utilization and production are equal (2mg/kg/min) ( 14 ). Glucose homeostasis during fasting is tightly regulated by a reciprocal bihormonal response, in which reduction in glucose concentrations below baseline reduces β-cell insulin secretion and stimulates α-cell glucagon release ( 15 ). While the full range of glucoregulatory effects of glucagon in the prandial state is unclear, the main function of glucagon in the fasting state is to counterbalance the action of insulin on hepatic glucose production ( 15 - 17 ). Glucose production is mainly (~80%) attributed to hepatic glycogenolysis with a smaller contribution (~20%) from hepatic gluconeogenesis primarily from amino acids and lactate ( 11 ). After an overnight fast, the liver contains ~ 50 g of glycogen storage, which can supply glucose for 24
