Non-Diabetic Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, pubmed, insulin, patients, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, symptoms, article pubmed, prandial, low, response


hepatic gluconeogenesis primarily from amino acids and lactate ( 11 ). After an overnight fast, the liver contains ~ 50 g of glycogen storage, which can supply glucose for 24 hours after complete depletion. With prolonged fasting, hyperglucagonemia enhances gluconeogenesis and hypoinsulinemia promotes lipolysis. Lipolysis releases glycerol, a gluconeogenic substrate, and free fatty acids that are converted to ketones, mainly beta hydroxybutyrate (BOHB) and acetoacetate, in the liver to be used as an alternate fuel by the brain. Using a hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemic clamp in the fasting condition in normal humans, a decrement in plasma glucose concentration from the physiological range, in a hierarchical manner: ( 1 ) suppresses endogenous insulin secretion to lower glucose utilization, ( 2 ) increases glucagon response to increase glucose production, and ( 3 ) enhances epinephrine secretion (more relevant in absence of glucagon secretion) as well as cortisol and growth hormone release (more relevant during prolonged hypoglycemia) ( 8 ). Under physiological conditions during the fasting state, this counterregulatory response can reestablish euglycemia and prevent symptoms. A greater decline in plasma glucose concentration, though, would result in a symptomatic autonomic response to warn of low glucose and prompt the person to correct it by eating. However, if the individual did not (or could not) intervene, such as in the presence of overwhelming hyperinsulinemia) or blunted glucose counterregulatory responses, plasma glucose concentrations would drop further and neuroglycopenic symptoms and cognitive dysfunction would occur ( Table 1 ) ( 18 ). Table 1. Symptoms of Hypoglycemia View in own window Autonomic (neurogenic) Neuroglycopenic Sweating Anxiety Tremor Palpitation Hunger Tingling Ill-defined symptoms Warmth Behavioral changes Blurred vision Confusion/difficulty speaking Dizziness/lightheadedness Lethargy and weakness Seizure Loss of consciousness/coma It is unclear whether this hierarchy in hormonal responses or glycemic thresholds described during the fasting state would also apply to the prandial state. Here, we classify the hypoglycemic disorders based on timing from meal ingestion (fasting versus prandial) given the differences in the regulatory factors involved in glucose metabolism between the two conditions. DIAGNOSIS AND EVALUATION Diagnosis of hypoglycemia should be made when symptoms accompany low plasma glucose concentrations (chemical hypoglycemia) but symptoms are absent when plasma glucose levels are normalized (Whipple’s triad ( 19 )). Chemical hypoglycemia has been defined based on a glucose threshold that can evoke a counterregulatory response. In the fasting state, a decline in glucose below 55 mg/dl causes neurogenic symptoms while insulin secretion is
