Non-Diabetic Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, pubmed, insulin, patients, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, symptoms, article pubmed, prandial, low, response


defined based on a glucose threshold that can evoke a counterregulatory response. In the fasting state, a decline in glucose below 55 mg/dl causes neurogenic symptoms while insulin secretion is maximally suppressed (insulin < 3 uU/ml and C-peptide < 0.6 ng/ml) and glucagon response is maximized ( 9 ). Awareness of hypoglycemia alerting individuals to correct hypoglycemia is mainly because of increased autonomic nervous system activity triggered by hypoglycemia. The autonomic (neurogenic) hypoglycemic symptoms can be adrenergic (such as palpitation, tremor, and anxiety) or cholinergic (such as sweating, hunger, and paresthesia) ( 18 ). As glucose concentrations drop below 48-50 mg/dl during the fasting state, the neuroglycopenic symptoms (caused by brain glucose deprivation) manifest; these symptoms range from behavioral changes, fatigue, and confusion to loss of consciousness or seizure ( 18 , 20 - 22 ). Diagnosis of hypoglycemia in the prandial state is much more complex since the glycemic threshold to define hypoglycemia in the prandial state has not been well characterized. Using an oral glucose challenge in 650 healthy individuals in a previous study ( 23 ), 10% of subjects developed postprandial nadir glucose concentrations below 47 mg/dl without associated symptoms, suggesting that asymptomatic low glucose events are relatively common following an oral glucose load in normal humans. Hence, the mixed meal test (described below) is the preferred provocative test to diagnose prandial hypoglycemia. Furthermore, recurrent postprandial symptoms suggestive of hypoglycemia but not associated with low glucose concentrations have also been observed in normal individuals ( 24 ), indicating that other factors beyond hypoglycemia play a role in provoking autonomic symptoms. Therefore, after obtaining a detailed medical history and physical exam, diagnosis of hypoglycemia should be confirmed by verification of low glucose concentration associated with symptoms or signs that are relieved by raising glucose values (Whipple’s triad). A careful history of nutritional status, current medication use, and concurrent multisystem illnesses such as liver, heart, kidney failure, or sepsis, as well as a thorough physical exam and laboratory data, can point to existing primary conditions that predispose to hypoglycemia. This is especially crucial in patients who are often too ill to be subjected to extensive evaluation. For healthy subjects who lack any background predisposing illnesses, the details about timing (relationship to food ingestion, physical activities, day versus nocturnal time), severity (frequency, presence of neuroglycopenia, and requiring assistance to treat), and time of onset of hypoglycemic episodes are critical in
