Non-Diabetic Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, pubmed, insulin, patients, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, symptoms, article pubmed, prandial, low, response


(relationship to food ingestion, physical activities, day versus nocturnal time), severity (frequency, presence of neuroglycopenia, and requiring assistance to treat), and time of onset of hypoglycemic episodes are critical in differential diagnosis. To understand the pattern of hypoglycemic episodes, reviewing the records of symptoms, activity, food intake along with capillary blood or interstitial glucose levels measured by glucometer or continuous glucose monitoring (CGM), respectively, may be helpful. However, the accuracy of glucometer and CGM is low in the hypoglycemic range, and they should not be used for diagnostic purposes. On the other hand, masked (blinded) monitoring by CGM can provide insights into patterns of hypoglycemic episodes and triggering factors during patients’ daily routine ( 25 ). The flowchart in Figure 1 demonstrates the suggested approach for evaluation in healthy appearing patients after a careful medical history, physical exam, and laboratory data excludes an underlying illness that can predispose to hypoglycemia. Disorders that may cause hypoglycemia are listed in Table 2 . To confirm the diagnosis and explore etiology, it is necessary to collect blood samples during hypoglycemia, whether it occurs spontaneously or by provoked testing that can be selected based on clues from the medical history. In asymptomatic patients with documented chemical hypoglycemia, artifactual hypoglycemia due to conditions such as reticulocytosis (polycythemia, sickle cell anemia), leukocytosis (leukemia), and thrombocytosis that increase in vitro glycolysis in the blood sample while awaiting laboratory analysis should be considered ( 26 ). Also, nadir glucose levels in the prandial state can be low without any associated symptoms, particularly in persons with a history of upper gastrointestinal (GI) surgery ( 25 ). A potential diagnostic challenge in using clinical criteria remains in patients who are adapted to recurrent hypoglycemia by blunted autonomic response, so called hypoglycemic unawareness ( 27 ). It has been well recognized that antecedent insulin-induced hypoglycemia impairs counterregulatory glucose responses and blunts hypoglycemia symptoms (mainly autonomic symptoms) in normal humans ( 28 ). Therefore, in patients with a high index of clinical suspicion, monitoring of symptoms and signs of neuroglycopenia, which is less likely to be affected by recurrent hypoglycemia, and reevaluation over time should be considered. Figure 1. Evaluation of non-diabetic hypoglycemia in healthy appearing adults. Table 2. Causes of Hypoglycemia View in own window Artifactual Hypoglycemia (without symptoms) Reticulocytosis (polycythemia, sickle cell anemia) Leukocytosis (leukemia) Thrombocytosis Fasting Hypoglycemia (> 5 hour from the last meal) High Insulin, Low beta-hydroxy butyrate,
