Non-Diabetic Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, pubmed, insulin, patients, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, symptoms, article pubmed, prandial, low, response


View in own window Artifactual Hypoglycemia (without symptoms) Reticulocytosis (polycythemia, sickle cell anemia) Leukocytosis (leukemia) Thrombocytosis Fasting Hypoglycemia (> 5 hour from the last meal) High Insulin, Low beta-hydroxy butyrate, High glucagon response Insulinoma Auto immune syndrome (antibodies to insulin or the insulin receptor) Factitial due to exogenous insulin Factitial due to insulin secretagogues Induced by non-diabetic medications Low Insulin, High beta-hydroxy butyrate, Low glucagon response Ketotic hypoglycemia Prolonged exercise Alcohol induced Glycogen storage diseases Post Prandial Hypoglycemia (within 5 hours from the last meal) Bariatric surgery Nesidioblastosis Hereditary fructose intolerance Associated with Other Disorder Critical illness (liver failure, congestive heart failure, sepsis, renal failure, etc.) Malnutrition Adrenal insufficiency Non-islet cell tumors Fasting Hypoglycemia In patients with concern for fasting hypoglycemia, confirmation of Whipple’s triad and exploration of the cause is recommended during an episode of spontaneous hypoglycemia or with a supervised fast of up to 72 hours ( 9 ) (Figure.1). During the fast, patients can consume non-caloric caffeine-free beverages with all non-essential medications discontinued. Plasma glucose, insulin, c-peptide, and BOHB are collected every 6 hours until plasma glucose is < 60 mg/dL; at that time, frequency of blood collection should be increased to every 1-2 hours. The fast is terminated after collecting the last blood sample when the plasma glucose is < 45 mg/dL and the patient has signs and/or symptoms of hypoglycemia or if the patient has not exhibited symptoms after 72 hours have elapsed. Alternatively, the fast can be terminated when plasma glucose is < 55 mg/dL in men and < 35 mg/dl in women, given the sex differences in abnormal fasting glycemic concentrations ( 29 ), without signs/symptoms if Whipple’s triad was documented previously but blood samples were not collected ( 9 ). At the end of the fast, glucose response to 1 mg of glucagon IV bolus injection will be measured every 10 minutes for a 30-minute period and then the patient is fed. Insulin antibodies from baseline blood samples as well as hypoglycemic anti-diabetic medications (sulfonylureas and meglitinides) screening from baseline blood and urine samples are also collected. After confirmation of diagnosis, the results of the fasting test will help to differentiate hypoglycemia mediated by insulin- versus non-insulin factors. INSULIN-DEPENDENT HYPOGLYCEMIA (HIGH PLASMA INSULIN CONCENTRATION) C-peptide is secreted from β-cells at an equimolar ratio to insulin ( 30 ). Approximately half of the insulin which is secreted into the portal vein is removed
