Non-Diabetic Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, pubmed, insulin, patients, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, symptoms, article pubmed, prandial, low, response


INSULIN CONCENTRATION) C-peptide is secreted from β-cells at an equimolar ratio to insulin ( 30 ). Approximately half of the insulin which is secreted into the portal vein is removed by the liver ( 31 ). Therefore, plasma insulin concentration reflects not only insulin secretion or exogenous insulin administration, but also hepatic insulin degradation. In contrast to insulin, c-peptide undergoes minimal extraction by the liver and other organs ( 32 ), therefore c-peptide concentration represents endogenous insulin secretion ( 32 , 33 ). It has been well documented that exogenous insulin administration during euglycemia or hypoglycemia inhibits endogenous insulin secretion ( 34 , 35 ). In fact, this physiological phenomenon has been used to support the diagnosis of insulinoma using hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemic or euglycemic clamp ( 36 , 37 ). Therefore, low plasma concentration of c-peptide in presence of elevated insulin values during hypoglycemia indicates factitial hypoglycemia due to exogenous insulin administration, whereas elevated c-peptide and insulin represents inappropriately greater endogenous insulin secretion due to insulin secretagogues (sulfonylurea or meglitinides), autoimmune syndromes (insulin antibody syndrome or type B insulin resistance) or an insulin-producing tumor (insulinoma). Further, hypoglycemia induced by hyperinsulinemia is associated with low BOHB and glycemic response >25 mg/dl to glucagon injection. Insulin increases fatty acid synthesis and esterification and decreases fatty acid oxidation and ketogenesis in the liver, leading to lower plasma concentrations of BOHB. Enhanced insulin signaling in the liver activated by hyperinsulinemia or any non-insulin ligands, such as insulin-like growth factor—2 (IGF-2), also results in higher glycogen storage, hence a larger glycemic response to glucagon injection. Factitial Hypoglycemia Factitial hypoglycemia due to exogenous insulin (high insulin and low c-peptide) or insulin secretagogues medications (high insulin and c-peptide) remains a diagnostic challenge and often leads to extensive and costly investigation to rule out other causes because of limitations in biochemical assays ( 38 ), as well as patients’ denial of medication misuse. Factitial hypoglycemia is observed more often in patients who work in the medical health care system, have relatives with diabetes living in the same household, and those with underlying mental illness such as major depression. Therefore, obtaining detailed information regarding the patient’s medication list including herbal preparations that can be contaminated with sulfonylurea as well as family history is essential ( 39 ). Hypoglycemia due to exogenous insulin is characterized by elevated plasma insulin, suppressed c-peptide and low BOHB, as well as an increase in
