Non-Diabetic Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, pubmed, insulin, patients, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, symptoms, article pubmed, prandial, low, response


as family history is essential ( 39 ). Hypoglycemia due to exogenous insulin is characterized by elevated plasma insulin, suppressed c-peptide and low BOHB, as well as an increase in plasma glucose > 25mg/dL after glucagon challenge ( 9 ). Insulin antibodies may also be positive ( 40 ). Insulin-induced hypoglycemia due to insulin secretagogues (sulfonylurea or meglitinide) has a similar biochemical profile except that the c-peptide is elevated. Therefore, the only way to differentiate anti-diabetic factitial hypoglycemia from insulinoma is by detecting the drug in blood or urine. In a single-center retrospective study, factitious hypoglycemia accounted for 11 of 70 (16%) of admissions for evaluation of hypoglycemia. ( 41 ). Prognosis is poor based on a small-size study, in which only 30% of affected patients during several years of follow-up recovered ( 42 ). Treatment requires a multisystemic treatment team led by a psychiatrist ( 42 ). Autoimmune Syndromes Autoimmune syndromes are a rare cause of hypoglycemia characterized by high concentrations of insulin autoantibodies (insulin autoimmune syndrome [IAS]) or anti-insulin receptor antibodies (type B insulin resistance) ( 43 , 44 ). While IAS is the third leading cause of hypoglycemia in Japan, it is very uncommon in the non-Asian population; type B insulin resistance is even less common ( 43 ). Insulin autoantibodies (IAAs) are mainly immunoglobulins (Ig) directed against endogenously released insulin in response to nutrient ingestion with a high binding capacity but low affinity to insulin. As a result, patients may manifest hyperglycemia in the early absorptive phase of meal or oral glucose intake, when exogenous glucose appearance into circulation is maximal, followed by hypoglycemia in a few hours during the late prandial condition or postabsorptive state. Hypoglycemia, in IAS, is caused by the binding and release of insulin from the antigen-antibody complex independently of changes in glucose concentrations. Therefore, insulin and c-peptide are both elevated at the time of low plasma glucose concentrations. IAAs are different from insulin antibodies produced against exogenous insulin that are generally low binding and high affinity, thus, unable to cause hypoglycemia. In non-Asian patients, IAS is mainly reported in individuals with autoimmune (lupus, rheumatoid arthritis) /hematological diseases (multiple myeloma, benign monoclonal gammopathy), who are exposed to triggering factors, such as medications (captopril, propylthiouracil, penicillin G) and viral infections (measles, mumps, rubella, varicella zoster, coxsackie B, and hepatitis C) ( 43 , 44 ). In Japanese patients, IAS is commonly associated with
