Non-Diabetic Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, pubmed, insulin, patients, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, symptoms, article pubmed, prandial, low, response


(captopril, propylthiouracil, penicillin G) and viral infections (measles, mumps, rubella, varicella zoster, coxsackie B, and hepatitis C) ( 43 , 44 ). In Japanese patients, IAS is commonly associated with exposure to medications with a sulphydryl group (methimazole) ( 43 ). The prognosis is relatively good with self-remission reported in 82% of patients ( 44 ). Treatment is often dietary modification (small, frequent low-carbohydrate meals and uncooked cornstarch) and occasionally requires medications to decrease insulin secretion (somatostatin analogues, diazoxide) or immunosuppressants (high -dose corticosteroids, azathioprine, rituximab) ( 43 , 44 ). Type B insulin resistance is caused by anti-insulin receptor antibodies. Affected patients tend to be middle-aged women of Black race with obesity, acanthosis nigricans, and hyperandrogenism. Co-occurrence of systemic autoimmune disease (i.e., lupus) is common ( 43 ). Patients typically present with hyperglycemia; however, a subset of patients (8 of 34 patients in an NIH cohort) experience fasting or postprandial hypoglycemia after period of hyperglycemia or without a history of hyperglycemia ( 43 ). The autoantibodies are believed to be partial agonists for the insulin receptor. Hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia ensues depending on the antibody titer: high titers antagonize the receptor, resulting in hyperglycemia and high insulin and c-peptide levels to compensate for the resistance; low titers activate the receptor, leading to hypoglycemia. There are diagnostic challenges as immunoprecipitation, the gold standard method to detect insulin receptor autoantibodies, is generally not commercially available ( 45 ). Unlike IAS, prognosis of type B insulin resistance is poor with high mortality especially in patients that transition from a hyperglycemic to hypoglycemic phase. Deaths are related to hypoglycemia and other causes (lupus, renal failure, cancer, cardiovascular events). Therapy can include immunosuppressants, but response is variable or poor ( 43 ). Insulinoma Neuroendocrine insulin-producing tumors (insulinoma ) are relatively rare with an estimated incidence of ~ 1 – 4 new cases per million people/year ( 46 ). Less than 10% of insulinomas are malignant, 10% multiple, and 4% associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN-1) syndrome ( 47 ). They primarily manifest in the 5 th decade of life and are slightly more common in females ( 48 ). Typically, patients experience episodes of hypoglycemia fasting or after exercise, but some individuals may experience fasting and prandial hypoglycemia ( 49 ). Less frequently (6% of 237 patients in a Mayo Clinic cohort), patients present solely with prandial hypoglycemia ( 50 ). Diagnosis relies
