Non-Diabetic Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, pubmed, insulin, patients, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, symptoms, article pubmed, prandial, low, response


experience fasting and prandial hypoglycemia ( 49 ). Less frequently (6% of 237 patients in a Mayo Clinic cohort), patients present solely with prandial hypoglycemia ( 50 ). Diagnosis relies on biochemical testing. The 72-hour fast is usually successful in capturing hypoglycemia in patients with insulinoma, as 65% of patients will experience hypoglycemia within 24 hours, 93% within 48 hours, and 99% within 72-hours ( 51 ). Individuals with confirmed fasting (or postprandial) hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia, negative screening for oral hypoglycemic medications, and negative insulin autoantibody testing should undergo diagnostic tests to locate the insulinoma prior to surgery ( 9 ). Non-invasive imaging can include transabdominal and endoscopic ultrasonography, abdominal computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) ( 52 ). CT has been shown to detect ~70-80% of tumors and MRI 85% ( 47 ). Given that insulinomas tend to be small in size (< 1 cm in diameter in 40% of diagnosed cases) ( 47 ), negative imaging does not rule out the diagnosis ( 9 ). If non-invasive imaging cannot determine preoperative localization, selective arterial calcium stimulation with hepatic venous sampling can been utilized ( 53 ). Calcium is injected into arteries supplying the pancreas, which stimulates insulin secretion from insulinomas; a ≥ 2-fold increase in insulin concentrations from baseline localizes the site of an insulinoma with a > 90% sensitivity ( 54 , 55 ). Treatment is surgical enucleation of the tumor, performed more commonly via open surgery than laparoscopic ( 48 ). If not localized prior to surgery, intraoperative palpation by an experienced surgeon coupled with intraoperative ultrasound detects > 80% of tumors ( 48 ). Pancreatectomy (distal or central depending on location of tumor) is preferred over enucleation if the insulinoma is large or there is concern for malignancy or metastases. Pancreatic fistula is the most common complication in both open and laparoscopic surgeries. As noted earlier, the hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemic or euglycemic clamp has also be utilized to differentiate insulinoma from other causes when conventional evaluation (prolonged fasting, imaging) were equivocal ( 37 ) or when surgery failed to detect an insulinoma but clinical suspicion was high ( 56 ). Benign insulinomas have a high 5yr survival rate of 95-100% post-resection with relapse frequency 6% at 10yr and 8% at 20 yrs ( 48 ). Malignant insulinomas carry a poor prognosis with median life expectancy of 2 years ( 48 ). Inoperable cases may benefit
