Non-Diabetic Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, pubmed, insulin, patients, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, symptoms, article pubmed, prandial, low, response


at 10yr and 8% at 20 yrs ( 48 ). Malignant insulinomas carry a poor prognosis with median life expectancy of 2 years ( 48 ). Inoperable cases may benefit from medical management such as diazoxide, streptozocin, verapamil, and phenytoin by reducing insulin secretion and corticosteroids by diminishing insulin action ( 48 , 57 - 59 ). Non-surgical procedures such as CT guided radiofrequency ablation, US-guided ablation with ethanol, peptide receptor radionuclide therapy, and robotic radiosurgery have also been utilized ( 48 ). Non-Diabetic Medications Non-diabetic medications such as quinolones, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, antipsychotics, and α and β blockers have been implicated in inducing hypoglycemia by stimulating insulin secretion ( 60 ). Other medications, such as pentamidine, damage the β cells, resulting in transient hypoglycemia induced by cytolytic insulin release ( 60 ). Risk factors related to hypoglycemia include higher medication doses, concomitant renal failure, older age, and poor nutrition ( 60 ). Treatment may include discontinuation of the medication and supportive care ( 60 ). INSULIN-INDEPENDENT HYPOGLYCEMIA (LOW PLASMA INSULIN CONCENTRATION) In this group, plasma BOHB is elevated and glucose response to glucagon is small. In patients who appear healthy the following conditions should be considered and ruled out: Ketotic Hypoglycemia Ketotic hypoglycemia is a relatively rare condition that can occur during extended periods of carbohydrate deprivation, as during fasting or starvation. Prolonged adherence to a ketogenic diet, which severely restricts carbohydrate intake to 20-50g/day to promote weight loss and increase plasma ketone bodies ( 61 ), combined with other factors interfering with counterregulatory response, such as alcohol intake, also can result in ketotic hypoglycemia ( 62 ). Hypoglycemia in this condition is mainly caused by reduction in hepatic glucose production by hyperketonemia, which outweighs the diminished glucose utilization ( 63 ). Management is largely supportive depending on the severity of the presentation. Prolonged Exercise Prolonged exercise can result in plasma glucose to decline to the hypoglycemic range in 30-40% of healthy subjects, but these events are not associated with symptoms (Whipple’s triad) nor incompatible with continued exercise ( 64 ). While the mechanisms for lack of symptoms is not completely understood, studies in non-diabetic dogs using a hypoglycemic clamp with and without exercise have shown that (a) counterregulatory hormonal responses to exercise and hypoglycemia combined are greater than the response to either conditions alone, and (b) larger insulin action during exercise are negated by the counterregulatory response during
