Non-Diabetic Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, pubmed, insulin, patients, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, symptoms, article pubmed, prandial, low, response


hormonal responses to exercise and hypoglycemia combined are greater than the response to either conditions alone, and (b) larger insulin action during exercise are negated by the counterregulatory response during hypoglycemia (both enhanced endogenous glucose production and reduced glucose utilization) ( 65 ). Thus, disturbed counterregulatory response in prolonged exercise combined with inadequate carbohydrate ingestion may result in clinical hypoglycemia ( 66 ). Management is supportive. Alcohol-Induced Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia due to alcohol has been attributed to inhibition of gluconeogenesis and blunting of growth hormone response to hypoglycemia ( 67 ). Management is mainly supportive depending on the severity and length of hypoglycemia. Glycogen Storage Diseases Glycogen storage diseases (GSD) are rare genetic disorders that impair the breakdown of glycogen. Although these diseases are commonly diagnosed in infancy, GSDs Type I (deficiency in glucose-6-phosphatase), III (deficiency in amylo-1,6-glucosidase), and 0 (lack of glycogen synthase) can present in adulthood or continue to persist in adulthood ( 68 ). Adults with Type 1 GSD (most common form, annual incidence 1/100,000) may present with hypoglycemia, lactic acidosis, hyperuricemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and hepatomegaly ( 68 ). Patients with glycogen storage disease are generally managed by frequent feeding with complex carbohydrates and cornstarch to prevent hypoglycemia. Patients need to be followed long-term by a metabolic specialist. Fatty Acid Oxidation (FAO) Disorders FAO disorders are a rare group of autosomal recessive conditions characterized by impaired breakdown of fatty acids, leading to hypoketotic hypoglycemia and myopathy. FAO disorders also typically manifest in childhood but can continue through adulthood. Prognosis depends on the specific condition and severity. Treatment typically includes avoidance of fasting and high carbohydrate/low fat diets ( 68 ). Patients are managed by metabolic specialists. ASSOCIATED WITH OTHER DISORDERS In ill-appearing patients with hypoglycemia but low insulin concentrations the following conditions should be considered: Critical Illness Critical illness including organ failure such as acute liver failure and congestive heart failure with hepatic congestion have been associated with hypoglycemia, likely due to impaired gluconeogenesis and depletion of hepatic glycogen stores ( 69 , 70 ). Sepsis-induced hypoglycemia has been appreciated in humans and animal models with depleted glycogen stores, impaired gluconeogenesis, and increased peripheral glucose utilization implicated as contributing factors ( 71 , 72 ). Hypoglycemia in non-diabetic people with end stage renal disease is attributed to concomitant adrenal insufficiency, certain medications, malnutrition, and infection ( 73 , 74 ). Management of Ill-appearing individuals due to sepsis or organ
