Non-Diabetic Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, pubmed, insulin, patients, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, symptoms, article pubmed, prandial, low, response


with end stage renal disease is attributed to concomitant adrenal insufficiency, certain medications, malnutrition, and infection ( 73 , 74 ). Management of Ill-appearing individuals due to sepsis or organ failure is mainly treatment of underlying disorders and treatment of severe hypoglycemia by intravenous glucose administration. Addison’s Disease Addison’s disease is a rare disease that results in primary adrenal insufficiency characterized by glucocorticoid deficiency with or without mineralocorticoid deficiency. Most cases are caused by autoimmune damage to the adrenal cortex by 21-hydroxylase antibodies ( 75 ). Hypoglycemia, although rare, is likely due to cortisol deficiency that interferes with counterregulatory response during times of stress ( 76 ). Addison’s disease should be considered in a hypoglycemic individual with hyperpigmentation, hyponatremia, hyperkalemia and acidosis ( 75 ). Further testing, such as ACTH stimulation test, may be warranted to confirm diagnosis ( 77 ). Treatment for patients with primary adrenal insufficiency in adrenal crisis should be initiated by volume replacement and immediate treatment with intravenous or intramuscular hydrocortisone 100 mg followed by 100 mg every 6-8 hours until clinically stable. Etiology of the precipitating adrenal crisis should be identified and treated (i.e., infection, hemorrhage, etc.) ( 75 ). Non-Islet Cell Tumors Nonislet cell tumors are rare mesenchymal and epithelial tumors that can be benign or malignant, are often large (> 10 cm), and clinically apparent. Hypoglycemia results when the tumor overproduces incompletely processed IGF-2 ( 9 , 78 - 80 ). Tumors can secrete IGF-2 or its posttranslational precursor “big IGF” ( 81 ). IGF-2 structurally is similar to insulin; high levels of IGF-2 can bind to the insulin receptor and mimic the action of insulin, resulting in hypoglycemia ( 82 ). Insulin and c-peptide levels are appropriately suppressed in response to the hypoglycemia. Management of non-islet cell tumors may include surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy and medical therapy with glucocorticoids, GH, or octreotide ( 9 ). Prandial Hypoglycemia The glycemic threshold to define hypoglycemia after meal ingestion is unknown. However, symptoms associated with plasma glucose less than 50-55 mg/dL during mixed meal test that is relieved by normalization of glucose has been used to confirm meal-induced hypoglycemia ( 11 , 25 ). In the prandial state, provocative testing should use a mixed meal containing protein, carbohydrates, and fat and not oral glucose. This is mainly because the oral glucose challenge has low specificity for detecting clinical hypoglycemia by causing asymptomatic low glucose nadirs as
