Non-Diabetic Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, pubmed, insulin, patients, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, symptoms, article pubmed, prandial, low, response


protein, carbohydrates, and fat and not oral glucose. This is mainly because the oral glucose challenge has low specificity for detecting clinical hypoglycemia by causing asymptomatic low glucose nadirs as well as hypoglycemia symptoms (mainly autonomic) that do not correlate with low glucose concentrations ( 23 , 24 ). Currently meal tests are not standardized as both solid and liquid mixed meals as well as variable carbohydrate content from 45 to 105 grams have been used ( 83 ). Regardless of approach, meal studies can increase the risk of inducing hypoglycemia, thus, these tests need to be done under supervision by personnel trained in a safe environment. HYPOGLYCEMIA AFTER BARIATRIC SURGERY Meal-induced hypoglycemia after upper GI tract (gastrectomy and pyloroplasty) ( 84 ) or bariatric surgery ( 85 - 87 ) (Roux-en y gastric bypass surgery [RYGB] and sleeve gastrectomy [SG]) are well documented. One in 10 bariatric subjects develop a late-complication of hypoglycemia ( 88 , 89 ), and one in 150 suffer from severe hypoglycemia requiring an emergency room visit or hospitalization ( 88 ). Hypoglycemia in this population is postprandial, progressive, often associated with cognitive impairment and occasionally with loss of consciousness or seizures and is only partially responsive to diet modification or available therapeutic options ( 25 , 86 , 90 - 92 ). Despite sporadic case reports of postprandial hypoglycemia after SG ( 85 ), this condition, in our experience, is less prevalent, and likely to be of lesser severity than RYGB. Severe hypoglycemia after bariatric surgery is debilitating as it compromises patient safety, cognition, and quality of life (both professional and personal). The long-term health outcomes of this debilitating complication are largely unknown. A recent study ( 93 ) using a driver simulator has demonstrated that driving performance and cognitive function is impaired following RYGB during prandial hypoglycemia without any changes in perception of symptoms ( 94 , 95 ). Differentiating true hypoglycemia from those with prandial asymptomatic low glucose concentration or prandial symptoms without low glucose levels is more challenging in patients after GI surgery than non-operated individuals because of higher frequency of both conditions after bariatric surgery. Using CGM for 5 days has demonstrated that 70% of non-diabetic subjects after RYGB (n=40) had at least one episode of low interstitial glucose concentration (<55 mg/dl) ( 94 ). However, 80% of these low glucose events have been shown to be asymptomatic. Furthermore, it
