Non-Diabetic Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, pubmed, insulin, patients, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, symptoms, article pubmed, prandial, low, response


had at least one episode of low interstitial glucose concentration (<55 mg/dl) ( 94 ). However, 80% of these low glucose events have been shown to be asymptomatic. Furthermore, it is well documented that a large proportion of bariatric patients experience dumping symptoms ( 91 ), which are almost identical with autonomic symptoms of hypoglycemia, but not associated with low glucose concentrations. Therefore, it is critical to document Whipple’s triad (neuroglycopenic rather than autonomic symptoms associated with low glucose) during free-living conditions or using mixed meal test to confirm hypoglycemia in this population. Additional testing should be considered in ill-appearing patients after bariatric surgery to exclude adrenal insufficiency, other critical illnesses, and malnutrition ( 25 ). Post bariatric patients who experience fasting hypoglycemia (beyond 5 hours from previous meal ingestion) or hypoglycemia within 6-12 months from surgery should be evaluated for other causes of hypoglycemia such as insulinoma ( 25 ). Underlying mechanisms by which rerouted gut after GI surgeries cause hypoglycemia is not completely understood. However, it is well documented that following RYGB, and to a smaller extent after SG, meal ingestion enhances glucose excursion leading to higher glucose peaks and lower nadir glucose concentrations mainly due to faster nutrient emptying from the stomach pouch/stomach to the gut ( 96 ) ( Figure 2 ). Increased glucose delivery from the stomach pouch/ tube-like stomach to the gut after bariatric surgery is associated with hyperinsulinemia, which is exaggerated in RYGB patients with hypoglycemia compared to asymptomatic RYGB subjects ( 92 ) ( Figure 2 ). Enhanced meal-induced beta-cell secretion in patients with hypoglycemia after RYGB has been attributed to not only a greater beta-cell sensitivity to increasing glycemia in the first absorptive phase, but also a lower insulin suppression during glycemic decline from peak to glucose nadir ( 87 ). Prandial hyperinsulinemia after RYGB, particularly in patients with hypoglycemia, has been shown to be associated with greater prandial plasma concentration of glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), an insulinotropic gut hormone ( 87 , 90 , 97 ) ( Figure 2 ). These observations hinted towards a key role for GLP-1 signaling beyond glycemic stimuli in meal-stimulated hyperinsulinemia after RYGB. In fact, we and others have shown that blocking the GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1R) corrects post-RYGB hypoglycemia ( 87 , 98 ). Figure 2. The prandial glycemic effects of RYGB are exaggerated in patients with late-complication of hypoglycemia. RYGB enhances prandial glycemic excursion
