Non-Diabetic Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, pubmed, insulin, patients, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, symptoms, article pubmed, prandial, low, response


(GLP-1R) corrects post-RYGB hypoglycemia ( 87 , 98 ). Figure 2. The prandial glycemic effects of RYGB are exaggerated in patients with late-complication of hypoglycemia. RYGB enhances prandial glycemic excursion and increases insulin secretion rate (ISR) along with plasma GLP-1 concentrations. Patients with documented hypoglycemia after RYGB have greater insulin and GLP-1 secretin compared to those without. Following RYGB, glucagon response to meal ingestion is enhanced but there is no further increase in response to hypoglycemia. Adapted with permission from Salehi, JCEM, 2014. Despite a larger meal-induced glucagon response after RYGB compared to non-operated individuals, there is no further increase in plasma glucagon concentration during prandial hyperglycemia ( Figure 2 ), suggestive of dysregulated pancreatic α-cell response. In fact, we have shown that patients with RYGB and SG, glucagon response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia is smaller than healthy individuals without GI surgery ( 99 , 100 ). This data is aligned with a report demonstrating that counterregulatory hormonal response (glucagon, cortisol, and catecholamines) to hypoglycemia is significantly reduced after RYGB compared with before surgery ( 101 ). In prandial state using tracer technique, we also have shown that despite a larger prandial plasma glucagon concentration, endogenous glucose production response to hypoglycemia is smaller after RYGB compared to non-operated controls ( 102 ), suggestive of diminished liver sensitivity to glucagon. However, we have demonstrated that blocking the GLP-1R increases the prandial hepatic glucose production response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia in RYGB subjects but not in non-operated controls, suggesting that enhanced GLP-1 signal due to rerouted gut can potentially contribute to the impaired counterregulatory response to hypoglycemia ( 103 ). Based on current pathophysiologic understanding treatment strategies that selectively reduce the pace of nutrient delivery to the gut and prandial insulin secretion or improve counterregulatory response are the most effective options. Because of limited therapeutic options at this point, dietary modification remains the cornerstone of management. The goal of dietary modification is to lower prandial glucose spikes while increasing glucose nadirs by (a) lowering the amount of carbohydrates for every meal (<30g) or snacks (<15 g), (b) avoiding simple carbohydrates with high-glycemic index, (c) adding fats and proteins to every meal and snack, and (d) changing the composition of carbohydrate from glucose to fructose ( 25 ). Uncooked starch has also been used in this population based on effectiveness in reducing hypoglycemic episodes in patients with diabetes mellitus ( 104 ). The current medical
