Non-Diabetic Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, glucose, pubmed, insulin, patients, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, symptoms, article pubmed, prandial, low, response


( 25 ). Uncooked starch has also been used in this population based on effectiveness in reducing hypoglycemic episodes in patients with diabetes mellitus ( 104 ). The current medical interventions rely on drugs that had previously been used for treatment of other hypoglycemic conditions. Acarbose, an antidiabetic medication, has been utilized as the first drug started with dietary modification. The effect of this intestinal alpha-glucosidase blocker is to block carbohydrate absorption and reduce prandial glycemic excursion after RYGB {Valderas, 2012 #6617}. Adverse effects include flatulence and bloating, especially if the dose is not gradually titrated. Other medications such as somatostatin analogues, diazoxide, and GLP-1R agonists also are used based on sporadic case reports ( 25 ). Unblinded CGM in a small size study of patients with post-RYGB hypoglycemia has also been shown to reduce hypoglycemic episodes, likely due to better self-assessment of glycemic excursion and the need for treatments ( 105 ). The investigational drugs that are in various phases of development include exendin-( 9 - 30 ) (Eiger Biopharmaceutical, Paol Alto, CA, USA), a potent GLP-1R antagonist ( 87 , 106 ), glucagon-based drugs ( 107 , 108 ), somatostatin analogues ( 109 ) and sodium-glucose cotransporter-1 inhibitor ( 110 ). OTHER PRANDIAL HYPOGLYCEMIC CONDITIONS (RARE) Nesidioblastosis Non-insulinoma pancreatogenous hypoglycemia is a rare condition that typically causes hypoglycemia in the postprandial state due to diffuse nesidioblastosis (β cell hypertrophy, islet hyperplasia, increase in β cell mass) ( 111 ). The pathogenesis in adults is largely unknown, but likely differs from nesidioblastosis that occurs in congenital hyperinsulinism that is caused by a genetic mutation ( 112 , 113 ). This etiology should be considered in a hypoglycemia patient with a negative 72 hour fast, positive mixed meal test concerning for endogenous hyperinsulinism without a history of GI surgery, and negative imaging for insulinoma. Selective arterial calcium stimulation demonstrates diffuse insulin secretion. Histopathology reveals nesidioblastosis ( 114 - 116 ). Ideal management is difficult to determine as the condition is rare; a majority of the publications are from case reports or case-series, and there is a lack of long-term follow up ( 82 , 117 ). Management can include dietary interventions (low-carbohydrate frequent meals) or medical interventions with diazoxide, acarbose, verapamil or octreotide ( 82 ). When these interventions fail, partial pancreatectomy can be performed in patients with severe neuroglycopenic symptoms ( 118 ). Hereditary Fructose Intolerance Hereditary fructose intolerance
