JournalofMedicalVirology84:1471–1480(2012)
KEYWORDS: mmp-, rsv, children, respiratory, mmp- mmp-, cid, disease, expression, viral, plasma, severity, infection, concentrations, gene, infections


immune cells to the UniversityNijmegenMedicalCentre.Within24 hraf- lungs by degrading extracellular matrix, but also ter admission a blood sample and nasopharyngeal as- have pro- and anti-inflammatory properties. The ac- pirate was collected and parents from hospitalized tivity of MMPs is regulated through binding to tissue children were asked permission to draw a second inhibitor of metalloproteinases (TIMPs) leading to in- blood sample and nasopharyngeal aspirate 4–6 weeks activation.Animbalanceinproductionandactivation, after admission. Medical history, demographics, and or inactivation by TIMPs might augment airway in- clinicalparameterswerecollectedfromquestionnaires flammationthroughdirectorindirecteffectsuponsig- and medical records. Patients were classified into naling pathways that influence migration of three different groups based on severity of disease. leukocytes through the tissues [Greenlee et al., 2007; Children without hypoxia or severe feeding problems Schuurhof et al., 2012]. Increased concentrations and were allocated in the mild group, those requiring activity of MMP-8 and MMP-9 have been observed in hospitalization for supplemental oxygen (oxygen satu- respiratorysamplesobtainedfromadultsandchildren rations <93%) and/or nasogastric feeding in the mod- with acute lung injury and pneumonia [Hartog et al., erate group and children requiring mechanical 2003; Fligiel et al., 2006; Schaaf et al., 2008; Kong ventilationintheseveregroup. et al., 2009] as well as in chronic lung diseases such as asthma [Prikk et al., 2002; Obase et al., 2010]. In SampleCollection addition, a relation between MMP-9 concentrations and disease severity of pneumonia [Hartog et al., A nasopharyngealaspiratewascollected byintroduc- 2003;Schaafetal.,2008]andasthma[Belleguicetal., ing a catheter, connected to a collection tube and an 2002;Mattosetal.,2002]hasbeendescribed. aspiration system, into the nasopharyngeal cavity. Yeo et al. have reported that MMP-9 protein Then, 1.5ml of saline was instilled into the catheter expression is increased in human airway epithelial and, while slowly retracting the catheter, the nasopha- cell lines infected with RSV. In addition, MMP-9 gene ryngeal fluid was aspirated in a collection tube. After- expression is increased in the lungs of RSV-infected wards the catheter was flushed with 1ml of saline and mice [Li and Shen, 2007]. Another study demonstrat- added to the collection fluid. The samples were kept ed that nasopharyngeal samples from infants infected coldandimmediatelytransferredtothelaboratory.The with RSV and parainfluenza virus (PIV) contain in- nasopharyngeal aspirate was centrifuged at 500g for creased MMP-9 and TIMP-1 concentrations [Elliott 10min at 48C to spin down the mucus and cells, after etal.,2007]. whichthesupernatantwasfrozenat(cid:1)808C. In the current study, it was hypothesized that Five milliliters of blood was collected into sodium MMP-8andMMP-9geneexpressionlevels,andconse- heparintubesanddirectlytransferredtothelaborato- quently, MMP-8 and MMP-9 plasma concentrations ry. A thin blood smear was prepared
