JournalofMedicalVirology84:1471–1480(2012)
KEYWORDS: mmp-, rsv, children, respiratory, mmp- mmp-, cid, disease, expression, viral, plasma, severity, infection, concentrations, gene, infections


<0.001 Male 95(62%) 70(64%) 25(57%) NS Prematurity 21(14%) 16(15%) 5(11%) NS Familyhistoryofatopy 82(57%) 56(54%) 26(63%) NS Symptomaticdaysbeforepresentation(days(cid:3)SE) 5.5(cid:3)0.4 5.2(cid:3)0.4 6.3(cid:3)1.1 NS Data are presented as number (%), unless otherwise specified. For variables that were not normally distributed, Kruskal–Wallistest was performed to compare continuous variables followed by Mann–Whitney U-tests for individual comparisons. Chi-squared tests were per- formedtocomparecategoricaldata.Atwo-sidedvalueofP<0.05wasconsideredstatisticallysignificant.NS,notsignificant,SE,standard error. PBMCs and granulocytes compared to recovery. No nasopharyngeal washes, the concentration of MMP-8 differences in gene expression of MMP-8 and MMP-9 was increased during acute RSV infection compared in both PBMCs and granulocytes were found between to recovery washes (Fig. 3D). No significant differen- RSV positive and RSV negative children during acute ces of MMP-8 concentrations in the nasopharyngeal infection. In general, gene expression of the MMP-9 washes were observed between the different severity gene was higher in granulocytes than in PBMCs. groups (Fig. 4D). In both RSV positive as RSV nega- For MMP-8, the same trend was noticed (Figs. 1A,B tive patients MMP-9 concentrations in the nasopha- and2A,B). ryngeal washes were increased during infection Increased disease severity was associated with (Fig. 3E). Children with moderate disease had in- higher expression levels of the MMP-8 and MMP-9 creased MMP-9 concentrations in nasopharyngeal genes in both PBMCs and granulocytes. To determine washes compared to those with mild disease. Howev- whetherthisassociationwasdependentonthetypeof er, no significant differences inMMP-9concentrations virus, RSV positive and RSV negative children were were observed in children with severe disease com- analyzed separately. For RSV positive patients, the pared to those with mild and moderate disease same association was found between disease severity (Fig. 4E). TIMP-1 concentrations in plasma or naso- and gene expression levels (Figs. 1C,D and 2C,D). For pharyngeal washes were not increased during acute RSV negative patients, MMP-8 and MMP-9 gene ex- infectionandtherewasnocorrelationwithdiseasese- pression was higher in children with severe disease verity (Figs. 3C and 4C). The ratio between MMP-9 compared to those with mild. In addition, RSV nega- and TIMP-1 plasma concentrations, an indicator for tive children with severe disease had higher expres- enzyme activity, was not increased during acute RSV sion levels of the MMP-8 gene in both PBMCs and infection. This ratio was significant higher in the granulocytescomparedtothosewithmoderatedisease recovery plasma of RSV negative patients compared (datanotshown). to the acute samples (Fig. 3F). No relation between disease severity and the plasma MMP-9 and TIMP-1 DiseaseSeverityIsAssociatedWithIncreased ratiowasfound(Fig.4F). MMP-8PlasmaLevels No differences in plasma or nasopharyngeal levels The plasma concentration of MMP-8
