JournalofMedicalVirology84:1471–1480(2012)
KEYWORDS: mmp-, rsv, children, respiratory, mmp- mmp-, cid, disease, expression, viral, plasma, severity, infection, concentrations, gene, infections


result in increased gene expression infected by RSV and other viruses. Paired analyses (Wilcoxon) were performedtocompareacuteandrecoverysamples.Atwo-sidedvalue of MMP-8 and only a moderate increase of MMP-9 ofP<0.05wasconsideredstatisticallysignificant. expression was observed (Fig. 5B). Unstimulated neu- trophils secreted high levels of MMP-8 and MMP-9. Stimulation with LPS and RSV had no effect on the release of MMP-8 and MMP-9 by neutrophils (Fig.5C). DISCUSSION This study demonstrates that disease severity of viral lower respiratory tract infections in children is associated with increased gene expression levels of the MMP-8 and MMP-9 genes in both PBMCs and granulocytes. These associations were observed in childrenwithlowerrespiratorytractinfectionscaused by either RSV or other respiratory viruses. The in vitro experiments in this study show that MMP-8 and MMP-9 mRNA and protein expression in PBMCs and granulocytes is not induced by stimulation with RSV. Consequently, other factors than direct viral interaction induce gene expression in PBMCs and granulocytes. This is the first study that describes an association between MMP-8 and MMP-9 gene expression and dis- ease severity of viral lower respiratory infections in Fig.2. Expression levels of the MMP-8 and MMP-9 genes in children. This association was significant for children PBMCs from children with viral lower respiratory tract infections. Relativegeneexpressionlevels(mean(cid:3)standarderror)ofMMP-8(A) with a RSV infection and there was a trend for and MMP-9 (B) in PBMCs from children during acute RSV positive children with a viral lower respiratory infection and RSV negative viral lower respiratory tract infections and after caused by other viruses, indicating to a more general recovery of infection. Relative gene expression levels of MMP-8 (C) marker for disease severity during respiratory viral and MMP-9 (D) for RSV positive children with mild, moderate, and severedisease.Mann–WhitneyU-testwasperformedtocomparechil- infections. dren infected by RSV and other viruses. Paired analyses (Wilcoxon) Several studies have shown that transcriptional wereperformedtocompareacuteandrecoverysamples.Atwo-sided valueofP<0.05wasconsideredstatisticallysignificant. analysis of peripheral blood cells can be used to J.Med.Virol.DOI10.1002/jmv 1476 Brandetal. Fig.3. MMP-8 and MMP-9 concentrations in plasma and nasopharyngeal samples from children duringacutelowerrespiratorytractinfectionsandafterrecovery.PlasmaconcentrationofMMP-8(A), MMP-9(B),TIMP-1(C),andconcentrationinnasopharyngealwashesofMMP-8(D)andMMP-9(E) fromchildrenduringacuteRSVpositiveandRSVnegativevirallowerrespiratorytractinfectionsand afterrecoveryofinfection.Ratio’sbetweenplasmaMMP-9andTIMP-1(F).Concentrations(ng/ml)are giveninmean(cid:3)standarderror.Mann–WhitneyU-testwasperformedtocomparechildreninfectedby RSV and other viruses. Paired analyses (Wilcoxon) were performed to compare acute and recovery samples.Atwo-sidedvalueofP<0.05wasconsideredstatisticallysignificant. discriminate the etiology and disease outcome [Aliza- Escherichiacoli,andStreptococcuspneumoniae).Both deh et al., 2000; Allantaz et al., 2007; Ramilo et al., MMP-8 and MMP-9 were not represented in the se- 2007; Chaussabel et al., 2008]. Ramilo et al. lected set of classifier genes. Retrospective analysis of compared the transcriptional profiles of PBMCs of the microarray data set was performed by us, and children with infectious
