JournalofMedicalVirology84:1471–1480(2012)
KEYWORDS: mmp-, rsv, children, respiratory, mmp- mmp-, cid, disease, expression, viral, plasma, severity, infection, concentrations, gene, infections


Ramilo et al. lected set of classifier genes. Retrospective analysis of compared the transcriptional profiles of PBMCs of the microarray data set was performed by us, and children with infectious diseases, and identified a set showed that mRNA expression of MMP-8 and MMP-9 of genes that could separate influenza A infections wereelevatedinallgroupscomparedtocontrols,indi- from bacterial infections (Staphylococcus aureus, cating a more general marker for inflammatory Fig.4. MMP-8 and MMP-9 concentrations in plasma and nasopharyngeal samples from children with mild, moderate, and severe RSV infection. For RSV positive children plasma concentration of MMP-8(A),MMP-9(B),TIMP-1(C),andconcentrationinnasopharyngealwashesofMMP-8(D)and MMP-9 (E) in mild, moderate, and severe disease are given. Ratio’s between plasma MMP-9 and TIMP-1(F).Concentrations(ng/ml)aregiveninmean(cid:3)standarderror.Mann–WhitneyU-testswere performed tocomparemild,moderate,andseveredisease. Atwo-sidedvalue ofP<0.05was consid- eredstatisticallysignificant. J.Med.Virol.DOI10.1002/jmv MMPsandViralRespiratoryInfections 1477 proteins than the circulating cell population. This is in line with the study of Hartog et al. in which they found elevated MMP-8 concentrations in plasma and lung fluid in adults with hospital-acquired bacte- rial pneumonia compared to healthy controls. They found an association between clinical severity scores and MMP-8 concentrations in BAL fluid, but not in plasma. Although MMP-9 plasma concentrations were in- creased during acute viral respiratory infections in children, no association between MMP-9 plasma con- centrations and disease severity was found in this study.Previousstudieshavedescribedsuchanassoci- ationforseveralinflammatorydiseases,suchaspneu- monia [Hartog et al., 2003], tuberculosis infections [Hrabec et al., 2002], septic shock [Nakamura et al., 1998], and asthma [Belleguic et al., 2002]. This may be related to the fact that, in consistent with other studies [Ricou et al., 1996; Vignola et al., 1998; Yang etal.,2005],MMP-9concentrationswerecorrelatedto neutrophil counts, although no significant differences in neutrophil counts between the different severity groupswereobservedinthisstudy. TIMP-1 is an inhibitor of the protease activity of all known MMPs [Gomez et al., 1997]. Previous studies have described an association between an imbalance between MMP-9 and TIMP-1 and tissue degradation and airflow obstruction in asthma and chronic bron- chitis [Vignola et al., 1998; Mautino et al., 1999]. In addition, elevated MMP-9/TIMP-1 ratios have been observed in plasma from patients with status asth- matics [Belleguic et al., 2002]. Furthermore, it has been shown that increased TIMP-1 concentrations, but not MMP-9, in nasopharyngeal washes of RSV- infected children correlated with disease severity and this suggests that a disturbed MMP-9/TIMP-1 homeo- stasis contributes to disease severity [Elliott et al., Fig.5. StimulationofPBMCsandneutrophilsbyLPSandRSVin 2007]. The ratio of MMP-9 and TIMP-1 concentration vitro. Human PBMC of healthy volunteers (n¼4) were stimulated in plasma did not show a correlation with disease
