JournalofMedicalVirology84:1471–1480(2012)
KEYWORDS: mmp-, rsv, children, respiratory, mmp- mmp-, cid, disease, expression, viral, plasma, severity, infection, concentrations, gene, infections


et al., Fig.5. StimulationofPBMCsandneutrophilsbyLPSandRSVin 2007]. The ratio of MMP-9 and TIMP-1 concentration vitro. Human PBMC of healthy volunteers (n¼4) were stimulated in plasma did not show a correlation with disease withLPS(1ng/ml)orRSVA2(MOI1)andMMP-8andMMP-9con- severity in this study and indicates that MMP-9 is centrationsinsupernatantweremeasuredafter24byELISA(A)or at transcriptional level by q-PCR (B). Neutrophils were stimulated differentially regulated at the mucosal level during for4hrandMMPlevelsweredeterminedinthesupernatant(C). infection. Although both MMP-8 and MMP-9 concentrations in nasopharyngeal samples were increased during disease (data not shown). No data were available on acute infection compared to recovery samples no asso- disease severity, so it is not possible to exclude an as- ciation with disease severity was observed. The wide sociation with disease severity. In an experimental range of nasopharyngeal concentrations between indi- model of viral infection of the upper respiratory viduals is partly due to the variation induced by aspi- tract in adults with RSV, influenza, and RV, no up- ration volumes from the nasopharyngeal cavity. regulation of MMP-8 and MMP-9 was detected in Currently, more standardized methods have been de- wholebloodtranscriptionalprofiles[Zaasetal.,2009]. veloped, such as flocked swabs, which can be used for However, these infections were all mild with conse- viral diagnostics as well as protein analysis [Dezzutti quentlylowlevelsofinflammatorymarkers. et al., 2011; Munywoki et al., 2011]. Normalization of This study shows that in MMP-8 plasma concentra- protein levels to stable metabolites present in the mu- tions were increased during acute infection with RSV. cus might further improve the use of nasopharyngeal Although MMP-8 plasma concentrations were higher samples for diagnostics, although these methods are in moderate and severe disease compared to mild dis- not available yet. Further it should be taken in ac- verity. This is in contrast with the gene expression ily represent the situation in the lower airways and data and indicates a different source of plasma thesystemicinflammatoryresponse. J.Med.Virol.DOI10.1002/jmv 1478 Brandetal. The in vitro experiments in this study show that concentrations as a potential biomarker to assess dis- MMP-8 and MMP-9 mRNA and protein expression in easeseverityinvirallowerrespiratorytractinfections PBMCs and granulocytes were not induced by stimu- inchildren. lation with RSV. Other factors than direct interaction The relation of MMP-8 and MMP-9 with viral load between RSV and host cells could explain the in- in the nasopharyngeal cavity have not been investi- creased gene expression levels of MMP-8 and MMP-9 gated in this study. In experimental respiratory viral in children with viral lower respiratory tract infec- infection models, inflammatory markers such as
