JournalofMedicalVirology84:1471–1480(2012)
KEYWORDS: mmp-, rsv, children, respiratory, mmp- mmp-, cid, disease, expression, viral, plasma, severity, infection, concentrations, gene, infections


creased gene expression levels of MMP-8 and MMP-9 gated in this study. In experimental respiratory viral in children with viral lower respiratory tract infec- infection models, inflammatory markers such as cyto- tions. Influx of bone marrow-derived neutrophil pre- kines correlated with viral load and the symptom cursors in blood from children with severe RSV scores, indicatingthattheamount ofvirus isthedriv- infections can result in higher MMP-9 expression due ing force for inflammation [DeVincenzo et al., 2010]. to granule protein production, such as MMP-8 and Also in children, disease severity has been associated MMP-9, during immature stages of neutrophil devel- with high viral titers [Houben et al., 2010; El Saleeby opment [Lukens et al., 2010]. Also inflammatory etal.,2011].Furtherresearchmightrevealtheroleof mediators, such as growth factors, pro-inflammatory inflammatory mediators in the pathogeneses of severe cytokines, oxidative stress upon viral infection can respiratory viral infections [Openshaw, 2005]. In this induce elevated gene expression levels of MMPs light,itisinterestingtoconsiderinflammatorymedia- [Greenlee et al., 2007]. It has also been shown tors,suchasMMPs,aspotentialtargetsfortherapy. that the lung injury caused by mechanical ventilation Some limitations of this study need to be consid- has resulted in increased MMP-8 and MMP-9 expres- ered. First, the younger age of the children with the sion [Albaiceta et al., 2010]. However, in this study, most severe lower respiratory tract infections may the last mentioned cannot completely explain the have caused a bias in the results. However, age was differences in gene expression since also differences not correlated with MMP-8 and MMP-9 plasma con- in gene expression between patients with mild and centrations, which suggests that age alone cannot ex- moderate disease were observed, all non-ventilated plain the observed differences. According to these patients. results, Thrailkill et al. did not found signifi- The results of this study indicate that neutrophils cant differences in MMP-8 and MMP-9 serum concen- are the major source of MMP-9 production. trations in children, 2–18 years of age. Second, The higher MMP-8 and MMP-9 concentrations in multiple viruses were detected in 40% children with nasopharyngeal samples compared to plasma may lower respiratory tract infections and it cannot be en- therefore reflect the influx and degranulation of neu- tirely exclude that the presence of multiple viruses trophilsintheairwaysduringinfection. haveinducedadifferentinflammatoryresponse. This is in contrast to observations made by others The results of this study suggest that the expres- that suggest that airway epithelial cells are the sion of MMP-8 and MMP-9 genes are potential mark- primary source of MMPs. It
