JournalofMedicalVirology84:1471–1480(2012)
KEYWORDS: mmp-, rsv, children, respiratory, mmp- mmp-, cid, disease, expression, viral, plasma, severity, infection, concentrations, gene, infections


results of this study suggest that the expres- that suggest that airway epithelial cells are the sion of MMP-8 and MMP-9 genes are potential mark- primary source of MMPs. It has been shown that er candidates for diagnostic use to assess disease MMP-9 gene expression is increased in human severity in children with viral lower respiratory tract airway epithelial cell lines infected with RSV [Yeo infections. Markers for disease severity do not have that infected human airway epithelial cells are not viral treatment is not available. However, new antivi- the primary source of MMPs and TIMP-1 and that ral treatment of patients will be based most likely on infiltrating leukocytes are responsible for MMP-9 in diagnostics predicting disease severity and suscepti- airway samples [Elliott et al., 2007]. Also in a RSV bility [Quinn, 2010; Hoggatt, 2011]. Furthermore, infection model in mice, of which it is known markersfor diseaseseverity arealsoimportant forre- that the epithelial cells are not infected, it was search purposes to study effects of interventions, such demonstrated that gene expression of MMP-9 is ele- as treatment. Although currently no biomarkers at [Li and Shen, 2007]. For MMP-8, no correlation the processing is time consuming, innovative techni- with neutrophil counts was observed and gene ques may enable rapid analysis of the expression of expression levels in granulocytes and PBMCs were multiple genes at transcriptional level in the near fu- comparable indicating that MMP-8 transcription ture[Brandetal.,2010]. and secretion was different regulated than MMP-9. In conclusion, increased expression of the MMP-8 This is supported by differences in the degranulation and MMP-9 genes was observed in PBMCs and gran- of subcellular neutrophilic granules, in which ulocytes obtained from children with severe viral low- MMP-8 and MMP-9 are stored [Faurschou and er respiratory tract infections. MMP-8 and MMP-9 Borregaard, 2003] and differences in transcriptional gene expression levels in circulating cells may be use- events that induce MMP-8 and MMP-9 mRNA ful markers to support clinical evaluation of disease expression. For example, it has been shown that severity in viral respiratory infections. These results pro-inflammatory cytokines, particularly IL-1b, justify futurefollow-up,thatis,thevalidationininde- play a central role in the modulation of MMP-8 ex- pendent prospective study cohorts of the usefulness of pression [Knauper et al., 1993; Abe et al., 2001]. Fu- MMP-8andMMP-9asapotentialmarkersfordisease ture studies may reveal the role for MMP-8 plasma severityinviralrespiratoryinfections. J.Med.Virol.DOI10.1002/jmv MMPsandViralRespiratoryInfections 1479 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS disease severity in previously healthy naturally infected chil- dren.JInfectDis204:996–1002. We would like
