Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


INTRODUCTION A major aspect of reproductive capacity in women is its cyclical activity, a feature strikingly reflected in the growth and development of dominant follicles. Normally, the human ovaries produce a single dominant follicle that results in a single ovulation each menstrual cycle. The dominant follicle is responsible for the production of estradiol during the follicular phase of the cycle. After ovulation, the dominant follicle transforms into the corpus luteum, which secretes large amounts of progesterone during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle. The estradiol and progesterone act on the uterus to prepare it for implantation of the human embryo. Therefore, to understand the menstrual cycle and female fertility, it is necessary to understand the life cycle of the dominant follicle and how it is controlled. Here, the structure/function relationships that underlie folliculogenesis, ovulation, and luteogenesis will be discussed. Attention will be focused on the human. FOLLICULOGENESIS Folliculogenesis begins with the recruitment of a primordial follicle into the pool of growing follicles and ends with either ovulation or death by atresia. In women, folliculogenesis is a very long process, requiring almost one year for a primordial follicle to grow and develop to the ovulatory stage. Folliculogenesis can be divided into two phases. The first phase, termed the preantral or gonadotropin-independent phase, is characterized by the growth and differentiation of the oocyte. The second, termed the antral or gonadotropin-dependent phase, is characterized by the tremendous increase of the size of the follicle itself (up to approximately 25-30 mm). The preantral phase is controlled mainly by locally produced growth factors through autocrine/paracrine mechanisms. The second phase is regulated by FSH and LH as well as by growth factors. There is great interest in the growth factors because they can stimulate cell proliferation and modulate gonadotropin action. The challenge now facing the field is to determine how ovary growth factor pathways negatively or positively regulate folliculogenesis, ovulation, and luteogenesis. CHRONOLOGY The timetable for human folliculogenesis is illustrated in Figure 1 . In each menstrual cycle, the dominant follicle that ovulates originates from a primordial follicle that was recruited almost one year earlier (1). The preantral or Class 1 phase is divided into three major stages: the primordial, primary, and secondary follicle stages. Altogether, the development of a primordial to a full-grown secondary follicle requires about 290 days or about 10 regular menstrual cycles. The antral phase is typically divided into four stages:
