Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


Altogether, the development of a primordial to a full-grown secondary follicle requires about 290 days or about 10 regular menstrual cycles. The antral phase is typically divided into four stages: the small (Class 2, 3, 4, 5), medium (Class 6), large (Class 7), and preovulatory (Class 8) Graafian follicle stages. After antrum formation occurs at the Class 3 stage (~0.4mm in diameter), the rate of follicular growth accelerates. The time interval between antrum formation and the development of a 20 mm preovulatory follicle is about 60 days or about 2 menstrual cycles. A dominant follicle is selected from a cohort of class 5 follicles at the end of the luteal phase of the cycle (1). About 15 to 20 days are therefore required for a dominant follicle to grow to the preovulatory stage. Atresia can occur after the Class 1 or secondary follicle stage, with the highest incidence occurring in the pool of small and medium (Class 5, 6, and 7) Graafian follicles (Fig. 1). Figure 1 The timetable of normal folliculogenesis in women. Class 1: the preantral or gonadotropin-independent period. It takes ~290 days for a recruited primordial follicle to grow to a fully-grown secondary follicle. Class 3-8: the antral (Graafian) or gonadotropin-dependent period. From cavitation or beginning antrum formation, it takes ~60 days to pass through the small (Class 2-4) medium (Class 5, 6) and large (Class 7) and preovulatory (stage 8) Graafian follicle stages. A dominant follicle is selected from a cohort of class 5 follicles. Once selected, it requires ~20 days for a dominant follicle to reach the ovulatory stage. Atresia can occur in developing follicles after the secondary stage. Number of granulosa cells (gc); days (d). (Gougeon A: Dynamics of follicular growth in the human: A model from preliminary results. Hum Reprod 1:81, 1986. Reproduced with permission from Oxford University Press.) THE PROCESS The process of folliculogenesis occurs within the cortex of the ovary (Fig. 2). Folliculogenesis can be regarded as a process of attaining successively higher levels of organization by means of cell proliferation and cytodifferentiation. It includes four major developmental events: 1) primordial follicle recruitment; 2) preantral follicle development; 3) selection and growth of the antral follicle; and 4) follicle atresia. Figure 2 The adult ovary can be subdivided into three regions: the cortex, medulla, and hilum regions. The cortex consists of the surface epithelium (se), tunica albuginea (ta), ovarian follicles (primordial, primary
