Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


The adult ovary can be subdivided into three regions: the cortex, medulla, and hilum regions. The cortex consists of the surface epithelium (se), tunica albuginea (ta), ovarian follicles (primordial, primary (pf), secondary (sf), small, medium, large Graafian follicle (gf)) and corpora lutea (cl). The medulla consists of large blood vessels and nerves. The hilum contains large spiral arteries and the hilum or ovary Leydig cells. (Bloom W, Fawcett DW: A Textbook of Histology. Philadelphia, WB Saunders Company, 1975) The Primordial-to-Primary Follicle Transition Primordial follicles are considered the fundamental reproductive units of the ovary because they give rise to all dominant follicles, and therefore to all menstrual cycles. The entry of an arrested primordial follicle into the pool of growing follicles is termed recruitment or primordial follicle activation. To understand recruitment, it is necessary to understand the structure-function relationships of the primordial follicle. The primordial follicle Histologically, a primordial follicle contains a small primary oocyte (~ 25µm in diameter) arrested in the dictyate stage of meiosis, a single layer of flattened or squamous granulosa cells closely apposed to the oocyte, and a basal lamina (Fig. 3). By virtue of the basal lamina, the granulosa cells and oocyte exist within a microenvironment in which direct contact with other cells does not occur. Primordial follicles do not have an independent blood supply and thus have limited access to the endocrine system (2). Figure 3.A human primordial follicle. The oocyte with its germinal vesicle (GV) or nucleus is surrounded by a single layer of squamous granulosa cells (GC), both of which are enclosed within a basal lamina. The diameter of a human primordial follicle is ~30 µm. (Erickson GF: The Ovary: Basic Principles and Concepts. In Felig P, Baxter JD, Frohman L (eds.): Endocrinology and Metabolism. New York, McGraw-Hill, 1995. Reproduced with permission from the McGraw-Hill Companies.) Based on work in mouse models, folliculogenesis specific basic helix-loop-helix (FIGLA) was identified as an oocyte-specific transcription factor critical for formation of primordial follicles at birth (3). In the absence of this protein, oocytes in newborn mice do not survive, resulting in female sterility. Forkhead box L2 (Foxl2) is a transcription factor expressed in pre-granulosa cells that is required to promote organization of somatic cells around primordial oocytes to form primordial follicles (4). Premature ovarian failure in women is associated with mutations in both FIGLA and FOXL2, suggesting that these proteins are also important in human folliculogenesis
