Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


oocytes to form primordial follicles (4). Premature ovarian failure in women is associated with mutations in both FIGLA and FOXL2, suggesting that these proteins are also important in human folliculogenesis (5-7). All primordial follicles (oocytes) are formed in the human fetus between the sixth and the ninth month of gestation (Fig. 4). As a result, all oocytes capable of participating in reproduction during a woman's life are present in the ovaries at birth. The number of oocytes or primordial follicles in a woman's ovaries constitutes her ovarian reserve. The idea that oocytes and follicles can arise de novo from stem cells after birth and thereby contribute to a woman’s ovarian reserve was proposed based on experiments in the mouse; however this theory is not generally accepted (8-10). Figure 4 In human females, all primordial follicles are formed in the fetus between 6 and 9 months' gestation. During this period, there occurs a marked loss of oocytes due to apoptosis. The number of primordial follicles decreases progressively as a consequence of recruitment, until very few if any are present after the menopause at ~50 years of age. (Baker TG: Radiosensitivity of mammalian oocytes with particular reference to the human female. Am J Obstet Gynecol 110:746, 1971. Reproduced with permission from Mosby, Inc.) Recruitment/Primordial Follicle Activation Some primordial follicles are recruited to grow soon after their formation in the fetus. A change in shape from squamous to cuboidal, and the acquisition of mitotic potential in the granulosa cells are histological hallmarks of recruitment (Fig. 5). These changes are followed by growth of the oocyte. The process of recruitment continues at a relatively constant rate during the first three decades of a woman's life. At the same time, the rate of loss of non-growing follicles to atresia is continuously accelerating. Consequently, there occurs an overall loss of ovarian reserve that results in decreased fecundity by age 30 and a marked decrease by age 35 (11, 12). Figure 5 Photomicrographs of the early stages of human preantral folliculogenesis. A) Primordial follicle; arrow, squamous granulosa cell. B) Recruitment showing the primordial-to-primary transition; arrow, cuboidal granulosa cell. C) Primary follicle with multiple cuboidal granulosa cells. D) fully grown primary follicle at the primary-to-secondary transition stage; arrow, formation of a secondary layer of granulosa cells. All photos are 40x. Paracrine communication between the oocyte, its associated granulosa cells, adjacent thecal/interstitial cells, and the surrounding follicles all combine
