Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


formation of a secondary layer of granulosa cells. All photos are 40x. Paracrine communication between the oocyte, its associated granulosa cells, adjacent thecal/interstitial cells, and the surrounding follicles all combine to control primordial follicle recruitment. This communication is largely mediated by secreted growth factors including several members of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF) superfamily. A schematic representing aspects of paracrine control of recruitment is shown in Figure 6 . Figure 6 Regulation of primordial follicle activation. Primordial follicle activation is driven by the collective actions of primordial follicles themselves, surrounding mesenchymal cells, surrounding follicles, and endocrine factors. The model shown is based mainly on experimental evidence from rodent model systems. PTEN, Foxo3a, and SDF-1 generated by primordial oocytes restrain their own activation. Primordial oocytes secrete PDGF and bFGF that stimulate pre-granulosa cells to increase secretion of KL and promote recruitment of mesenchymal cells to the follicle. KL secreted by pregranulosa cells promotes oocyte growth and follicle activation, and promotes recruitment of mesenchymal cells. KGF, BMP-4, and BMP-7 secreted by surrounding mesenchymal cells stimulate follicle activation. AMH and possibly SDF-1 secreted from surrounding growing follicles negatively regulate primordial follicle activation. Insulin from the circulation may promote follicle activation. In primary follicles, granulosa cells continue to secrete KL, which further promotes follicle activation. Oocytes of primary follicles secrete GDF-9 and BMP-15, which promote granulosa cell proliferation, KL expression and theca formation. PTEN, phosphatase and tensin homolog; Foxo3a; forkhead box O3A; SDF-1, stromal derived factor-1; PDGF, platelet-derived growth factor; bFGF, basic fibroblast growth factor; KL, kit ligand; KGF, keratinocyte growth factor; BMP, bone morphogenetic protein; AMH, anti-Mullerian hormone; GDF-9, growth differentiation factor-9. Evidence from the mouse suggests that the oocyte itself is largely responsible for controlling the signaling pathways that regulate recruitment and the rate of follicular growth (13), and at least two major signaling pathways are involved. First, phosphatidyl inositol 3-OH-kinase (PI3K)-AKT-Foxo3a signaling is required to restrain follicle activation (14). Evidence for this is provided by studies of PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog), a lipid phosphatase that inhibits signaling by the PI3K pathway. Loss of PTEN in oocytes causes global activation of primordial follicles, suggesting that PTEN-mediated inhibition of PI3K signaling is required for preventing follicle activation (15). Similarly, mice null for Foxo3a, a transcription factor produced in both oocytes and granulosa cells, undergo global primordial follicle activation postnatally (16). The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway also regulates follicle activation.
