Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


Foxo3a, a transcription factor produced in both oocytes and granulosa cells, undergo global primordial follicle activation postnatally (16). The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway also regulates follicle activation. A complex of the tuberous sclerosis proteins, TSC1 and TSC2, tonically inhibits mTOR signaling in oocytes, preventing activation of primordial follicles (17). In addition to these two signaling pathways, stromal derived factor-1 (SDF-1), a chemokine secreted by oocytes, appears to act in an autocrine/paracrine fashion to inhibit follicle activation (18). Many oocyte and granulosa cell proteins have now been identified as critical for primordial follicle survival and recruitment. Oocyte-specific proteins include spermatogenesis and oogenesis specific basic helix-loop-helix 1 (Sohlh1), Sohlh2, and FIGLA, which are helix-loop-helix transcription factors that appear to promote primordial follicle survival and activation by regulating expression of critical downstream genes (3, 19-21). Similarly, the homeobox transcription factors LHX8 and NOBOX control the expression of several oocyte genes that regulate follicle development, including the TGF family members growth differentiation factor-9 (GDF-9) and bone morphogenetic protein-15 (BMP-15). Oocyte-derived GDF-9 and BMP-15 promote granulosa cell proliferation, but do not appear to do so until the primary follicle stage. Platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) are oocyte-secreted factors that positively regulate follicle activation and increase granulosa cell expression and secretion of kit ligand. Granulosa cell-derived kit ligand interacts with the c-kit tyrosine kinase receptor on the oocyte to promote oocyte growth and is required for primordial follicle activation (22, 23). There is evidence that kit ligand-mediated activation of signaling via the oocyte kit receptor leads to inactivation of Foxo3a and loss of this restraint as follicle activation occurs (24, 25). Several factors derived from outside of the immediate oocyte-granulosa cell follicle unit also regulate the primordial to primary follicle transition. Keratinocyte growth factor (KGF, also known as fibroblast growth factor-7), BMP-4, and BMP-7 are secreted by stromal cells surrounding the primordial follicle and promote the primordial to primary follicle transition (26-28). Adjacent follicles negatively regulate follicle activation via intra-ovarian paracrine mechanisms. Anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) secreted by granulosa cells of growing follicles negatively regulates recruitment (18, 29, 30). The endocrine system may also modulate primordial follicle activation. There is evidence from the rat that insulin promotes primordial follicle activation (31). Pituitary gonadotropins are not absolutely required for primordial follicle activation because follicular growth to the primary follicle stage occurs in hypophysectomized animals (32). Furthermore, human ovarian xenografts
