Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


follicle activation (31). Pituitary gonadotropins are not absolutely required for primordial follicle activation because follicular growth to the primary follicle stage occurs in hypophysectomized animals (32). Furthermore, human ovarian xenografts transplanted into mice lacking pituitary gonadotropins develop follicles with up to two layers of granulosa cells (33). However, it is possible that FSH or other pituitary factors indirectly facilitate primordial follicle activation, and studies of hypophysectomized rhesus monkeys demonstrate a role for pituitary factors in germ cell survival (32). The Primary Follicle A primary follicle is defined by the presence of one or more cuboidal granulosa cells that are arranged in a single layer surrounding the oocyte (Fig. 5, 7). The major developmental events that occur in the primary follicle include FSH receptor expression and oocyte growth and differentiation. Figure 7 Diagram illustrating the major histological changes that accompany the gonadotropin-independent period of preantral folliculogenesis (Erickson, Gregory F. Normal ovarian function. Clin Obstet Gynecol 21:31, 1978. Reproduced with permission from Lippincott-Raven Publishers.) FSH receptor expression Granulosa cells begin to express FSH receptors at the primary follicle stage (34). Stimulators of FSH receptor expression include FSH itself, activin, cyclic AMP, and TGF(35) (Fig. 8). Although follicle recruitment and the initial stages of follicle growth are independent of gonadotropins, FSH is required for primary follicle development to the preantral stage (33). In animals, high levels of plasma FSH accelerate primary follicle development (36). This raises the possibility that the age-related monotropic rise in FSH in women might affect events in the primary follicle. Figure 8 The early differentiation of the granulosa cells during preantral folliculogenesis involves the expression of FSH receptors. Animal studies support the concept that this process involves an activin autocrine/paracrine mechanism. (Erickson GF: Dissociation of Endocrine and Gametogenic Ovarian Function. In Lobo, R. (ed.): Perimenopause. Serono Symposia, Springer-Verlaag, 1997. Reproduced with permission from Springer-Verlag, New York.) Oocyte growth and differentiation Primary follicle development is accompanied by striking changes in the oocyte. During the preantral period, the oocyte increases in diameter from ~25 µm to ~120 µm and develops its surrounding extracellular matrix, the zona pellucida (ZP). This enormous growth occurs as a consequence of the reactivation of the oocyte genome (37). During the growth phase, the oocyte is highly transcriptionally active because it must generate sufficient proteins and mRNA transcripts to support its own growth as well as future critical processes of oocyte maturation, fertilization and early embryo development.
