Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


transcriptionally active because it must generate sufficient proteins and mRNA transcripts to support its own growth as well as future critical processes of oocyte maturation, fertilization and early embryo development. Some oocyte transcripts are immediately translated and the resulting proteins contribute to ongoing oocyte growth and differentiation, while others required for future developmental processes are stored for later translation. Mouse models have helped identify several oocyte-specific proteins important for oocyte growth. The transcription factors FIGLA and NOBOX serve as central regulators of the zona pellucida (ZP) proteins and the growth factors GDF-9 and BMP-15 (38, 39). GDF-9 is of particular interest because studies in rodents have demonstrated that GDF-9 plays an important role in stimulating granulosa cell proliferation and theca development (40). The general concept to emerge from this work is that novel growth factors produced by the oocyte play a crucial role in regulating preantral folliculogenesis via effects on the surrounding granulosa and theca cells (41, 42). Human oocytes express high levels of GDF-9 and BMP-15, and GDF-9 stimulates growth of human preantral follicles in vitro (43, 44). It follows, therefore, that preantral folliculogenesis will likely be determined by these oocyte growth factors. Interestingly, a dysregulation of oocyte GDF-9 expression has been implicated in polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) in women (43), and a mutation of BMP-15 is associated with premature ovarian failure (45). The kit ligand-c-kit tyrosine kinase receptor signaling pathway is critically important for oocyte growth and follicle development. Kit ligand generated by granulosa cells is required for oocyte growth (46). In addition, kit ligand is important for organizing theca cells around the growing follicle. Several growth factors appear to influence follicular growth by stimulating granulosa cells to increase expression of kit ligand. Kit ligand then stimulates oocyte growth and resulting additional production of growth factors. This results in a “feed-forward” mechanism of paracrine interactions supporting further development of follicles that have initiated the process. Oocyte-granulosa cell connections An important event in primary follicle development is the development of intimate intercellular connections between the oocyte and granulosa cells (47, 48). Both the oocyte and granulosa cells elaborate numerous cytoplasmic projections and microvilli that interdigitate with each other to create an extremely large surface area for diffusion (49). In addition, some of the follicle cell microvilli and cytoplasmic projections physically penetrate deeply into the oocyte via invagination of the oocyte plasma membrane, occasionally reaching close to the nuclear membrane.
