Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


addition, some of the follicle cell microvilli and cytoplasmic projections physically penetrate deeply into the oocyte via invagination of the oocyte plasma membrane, occasionally reaching close to the nuclear membrane. Cell-cell contacts comprised of adhesive junctions and gap junctions are established in these regions. Gap junctions, which are intercellular channels composed of proteins called connexins, directly couple adjacent cells allowing the diffusion of ions, metabolites, and signaling molecules (50). Connexin 37 (Cx37) is the predominant gap junction protein synthesized by the oocyte after follicle recruitment, whereas granulosa cells mainly synthesize Cx43 (51, 52). Therefore heterotypic gap junctions comprised of Cx37 and Cx43 are formed between the oocyte and granulosa cells, whereas granulosa cells form homotypic Cx43 gap junctions between each other. The importance of oocyte-granulosa cell gap junctions was documented in rodents by the demonstration that ovaries of Cx37 deficient mice display a profound defect in oocyte and follicle growth resulting in failed folliculogenesis and female infertility (51). The underlying mechanism for these findings is that regulatory and nutrient molecules required for oocyte growth and acquisition of the potential to resume meiosis pass through these gap junctions from the granulosa cells to the oocyte (47, 53). The Secondary Follicle As preantral folliculogenesis continues, the structure of the follicle begins to change (Figs. 7 and 9). The major changes to occur during secondary follicle development include the accumulation of increased numbers of granulosa cells that form multiple layers around the oocyte, and the acquisition of a theca. The development of a primary to a fully grown secondary follicle results from an active autocrine/paracrine regulatory process that involves growth factors produced by the oocyte. Figure 9. A typical healthy secondary follicle. It contains a fully grown oocyte surrounded by the zona pellucida, 5 to 8 layers of granulosa cells, a basal lamina, a theca interna and externa with numerous blood vessels. (Bloom W, Fawcett DW In A Textbook of Histology. WB Saunders Company, Philadelphia 1975. With permission from Arnold.) The primary-to-secondary transition Secondary follicle development begins with the acquisition of a second layer of granulosa cells. This step is termed the primary-to-secondary follicle transition. It involves a change in the arrangement of the granulosa cells from a simple cuboidal epithelium to a stratified or pseudostratified columnar epithelium (Fig. 7). Experiments in animals have established that the primary/secondary stage is a critical regulated step in the process of folliculogenesis, e.g., follicle growth and
