Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


stratified or pseudostratified columnar epithelium (Fig. 7). Experiments in animals have established that the primary/secondary stage is a critical regulated step in the process of folliculogenesis, e.g., follicle growth and development stop at the primary stage in mice and sheep in the absence of GDF-9 and BMP-15, respectively (54). These experiments have led to the concept that oocyte-derived GDF-9 and BMP-15 are obligatory for the primary/secondary transition, presumably through their ability to stimulate granulosa cell proliferation and/or their pattern of arrangement. Homotypic Cx43 gap junctions continue to develop between the granulosa cells as multiple layers form, resulting in an integrated and functional electrophysiological syncytium of communicating cells. Interestingly, folliculogenesis arrests at the primary/secondary transition in Cx43-deficient mice (55). These results imply that Cx43 coupling plays an indispensable role in the mechanisms controlling the formation of a secondary follicle. Theca development Secondary follicle development is also characterized by thecal development (56). At or about the time of the primary/secondary transition, several layers of stromal-like cells appear around the basal lamina. In the rat, some of these cells express a novel functional marker for differentiated theca cells, namely BMP-4 (57). This is an important finding because it indicates that the theca develops very early in folliculogenesis, i.e., at the primary/secondary transition stage. As secondary follicle development proceeds, two primary layers of theca appear; an inner theca interna that differentiates in the theca interstitial cells and an outer theca externa that differentiates into smooth muscle cells (56). Theca development is also accompanied by the neoformation of numerous small blood vessels, presumably through angiogenesis. Consequently, blood now circulates around the follicle, bringing nutrients and gonadotropins to, and waste and secretory products from, the developing follicle. At the completion of the preantral phase of folliculogenesis, a fully grown secondary follicle contains five distinct but interacting structural units: a fully grown oocyte surrounded by a zona pellucida, approximately 9 layers of granulosa cells, a basal lamina, a theca interna, a theca externa and a capillary net in the theca tissue (Fig. 9). Oocyte meiotic competence When the oocyte completes its growth during preantral folliculogenesis, it will spontaneously resume meiosis if removed from the follicle environment (58). However, fully-grown oocytes rarely resume meiosis during folliculogenesis. This has led to the concept that there exists a meiotic inhibiting mechanism controlled locally by the follicle cells. There is extensive evidence that cyclic AMP has a critical role in inhibiting
