Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


led to the concept that there exists a meiotic inhibiting mechanism controlled locally by the follicle cells. There is extensive evidence that cyclic AMP has a critical role in inhibiting meiosis resumption (59). For many years it was thought that cAMP entered oocytes from granulosa cells via gap junctions and that this process was disrupted when the oocyte was removed from the follicle, allowing meiotic maturation to occur. However, experiments in both rodent and human indicate that meiotic arrest is maintained by cAMP generated within the oocyte itself, and that transit of cAMP into the oocyte via gap junctions is not required (60-62). The new model is that a constitutively active G protein-coupled receptor, GPR3, persistently stimulates Gs protein to activate oocyte transmembrane adenylyl cyclases to generate high levels of cAMP within the oocyte (60, 61). There is now good evidence that cGMP, rather than cAMP, transits from cumulus cells to the oocyte across gap junctions (63). Within the oocyte, cGMP inhibits the function of phosphodiesterase 3A (PDE3A), preventing PDE3A-mediated cleavage of cAMP and in this way helping to maintain meiotic arrest. The cGMP is tonically generated in cumulus cells in response to estradiol-mediated production of natriuretic peptide precursor type C (NPPC) in mural granulosa cells (64). Secreted cleavage products of NPPC activate the guanylyl cyclase natriuretic peptide receptor 2 (NPR2) on cumulus cells, stimulating production of cGMP that crosses gap junctions into the oocyte. The Antral Follicle An antral follicle is characterized by a cavity or “antrum” containing fluid termed follicular fluid. Follicular fluid is a plasma exudate conditioned by secretory products from the oocyte and granulosa cells (65). It is the medium in which the granulosa cells and oocyte reside and through which regulatory molecules must pass on their way to and from this microenvironment. The onset of antrum development is characterized by the appearance of a fluid filled cavity at one pole of the oocyte (Fig. 10). In laboratory animals, two proteins expressed by the follicle itself are essential for antrum formation, namely granulosa-derived kit ligand and oocyte Cx37 (23, 51). If either of these proteins is absent, then no antral follicles develop and the female is infertile. Figure 10 Photomicrograph of an early tertiary follicle 0.4 mm in diameter at the cavitation or early antrum stage. Oocyte (ooc); zona pellucida (ZP); granulosa cells (GC); basal lamina (BL); theca interna (TI); theca externa (TE); granulosa mitosis (arrowheads).
