Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


mm in diameter at the cavitation or early antrum stage. Oocyte (ooc); zona pellucida (ZP); granulosa cells (GC); basal lamina (BL); theca interna (TI); theca externa (TE); granulosa mitosis (arrowheads). (Revised from Bloom W, Fawcett DW In A Textbook of Histology. Philadelphia, WB Saunders Company, Philadelphia 1975. With permission from Arnold.) Architecture After the antrum forms, the basic plan of the antral follicle is established, and all the various cell types are present in their proper position awaiting the stimuli that lead to gradual growth and development (Fig. 11). An antral follicle is a member of the heterogeneous family of relatively large follicles that in human ovaries measure 0.4 to ~25 mm in diameter (66). The structure and organization of antral follicles remains essentially the same despite enormous growth and regardless of the stage of the menstrual cycle. The overall size of an antral follicle is determined largely by the size of the antrum, which in turn is determined by the volume of follicular fluid. Depending on follicle size, the volume of follicular fluid varies between 0.02 to 7 ml (Fig. 12). The proliferation of the follicle cells also contributes to follicle size. In a dominant follicle, the granulosa and theca cells proliferate extensively (as much as 100-fold) concomitant with the antrum becoming filled with follicular fluid (Fig. 13). Thus, increased follicular fluid accumulation and cell proliferation are responsible for the tremendous growth of the dominant follicle during the follicular phase of the cycle. It is the cessation of follicular fluid formation and mitosis that limits the size of the atretic follicle. An atretic follicle usually fails to develop beyond the small to the medium stage (1-10 mm). The relative abundance of antral follicles and their sizes vary as a function of age and the menstrual cycle. The total number of antral follicles present in a woman’s ovaries early in the menstrual cycle appears to be an indicator of her ovarian reserve (67). This “antral follicle count” can be determined by ultrasound and has been used clinically in infertile women to determine appropriate treatment protocols. Figure 11 Diagram of the architecture of a typical Class 5 Graafian follicle. (Erickson GF: Primary cultures of ovarian cells in serum-free medium as models of hormone-dependent differentiation. Mol Cell Endocrinol 29:21, 1983. Reprinted with permission from Elsevier) Figure 12 Changes in the number of granulosa cells and volume of follicular fluid in human Graafian
