Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


of hormone-dependent differentiation. Mol Cell Endocrinol 29:21, 1983. Reprinted with permission from Elsevier) Figure 12 Changes in the number of granulosa cells and volume of follicular fluid in human Graafian follicles throughout the course of folliculogenesis. Note that the dominant follicle at ovulation measures ~25mm in diameter and contains ~50 million granulosa cells and 7 ml of follicular fluid. (McNatty KP: Hormonal correlates of follicular development in the human ovary. Aust J Biol Sci 34:249, 1981. Reproduced with permission from CSIRO Publishing.) The theca externa (Fig. 13) consists of concentrically arranged smooth muscle cells, which are innervated by autonomic nerves (66). The physiological significance of the theca externa is unknown. The theca interna contains a population of large epithelioid cells termed the theca interstitial cells (Fig. 13). They have the ultrastructural characteristics typical of active steroid producing cells, i.e., the cytoplasm is filled with lipid droplets, smooth endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria with tubular cristae (56). The theca interstitial cells possess receptors for LH and insulin. In response to LH and insulin stimulation, they produce high levels of androgens, most notably androstenedione (68). The theca interna is richly vascularized by a loose capillary network that surrounds the antral follicle during its growth. Figure 13 Drawing of the wall of a Graafian follicle. (Bloom W, Fawcett DW In A Textbook of Histology. WB Saunders Company, Philadelphia 1975. With permission from Arnold.) In the antral follicle, the granulosa cells and oocyte are distributed as a mass of precisely shaped and precisely positioned cells. This spatial organization gives rise to distinct subtypes of granulosa cells: the membrana, the periantral area, and the cumulus oophorus (Fig. 14). All the granulosa cells express FSH receptors during antral follicle development; however, each group of granulosa cells is influenced by its position to express a specific differentiated state in response to FSH stimulation. For example, the membrana granulosa cells express P450AROM and LH receptor whereas the periantral and cumulus cells do not (66). Figure 14 An oocyte morphogen gradient influences granulosa cell phenotypes. The model shown is based mainly on experimental evidence from rodent model systems. Protein morphogens including GDF-9 and BMP-15 are secreted by the oocyte, resulting in a concentration gradient that diminishes with distance from the oocyte. Because granulosa cell differentiation is dictated by the morphogen concentration, position in the follicle relative to the oocyte is a critical determinant of the final phenotype. Additional modulation of
