Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


oocyte. Because granulosa cell differentiation is dictated by the morphogen concentration, position in the follicle relative to the oocyte is a critical determinant of the final phenotype. Additional modulation of granulosa cell phenotype is accomplished by other factors from the follicle itself and from the endocrine system, including activin, inhibin, and steroid hormones. Granulosa cells differentiate into three distinct phenotypes based on position within the follicle – cumulus, periantral, and membrana granulosa cells. Each granulosa cell type exhibits a distinct response to FSH stimulation. Some examples of the many genes differentially expressed in the various follicle compartments are listed at the right. Abbreviations: Cox-2, cyclooxygenase 2; FSH, follicle-stimulating hormone; HAS2, hyaluronic acid synthase 2; IGF-I, insulin-like growth factor I; PTX, pentraxin; TNFAIP6, tumor necrosis factor-induced protein 6; LH, luteinizing hormone; P450SCC, P450 side chain cleavage; P450AROM, P450 aromatase; u-PA, urokinase-type plasminogen activator. (Revised from Erickson GF, Shimasaki S: The role of the oocyte in folliculogenesis. Trends Endocrinol Metab 11:193, 2000.) The way in which the granulosa cells differentiate in the antral follicles appears to be controlled by a morphogen gradient emanating from the oocyte (66). Studies with laboratory animals have demonstrated that growth factors produced by the oocyte act directly in granulosa cells to inhibit FSH-dependent cytodifferentiation (54, 69). As an antral follicle develops, oocyte morphogens including GDF-9 and BMP-15 function as gradient signals for the generation of distinct classes of functionally different granulosa cells depending on the positions of the granulosa cells relative to the oocyte. These differences become critically important as the follicle cells and oocyte prepare for ovulation. Selection In normal cycling women, the dominant follicle is selected from a cohort of class 5 follicles at the end of the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle (1). The rate of granulosa mitosis appears to increase sharply (~2 fold) in all cohort follicles after the mid-luteal phase, suggesting that luteolysis contributes somehow to an increase in mitosis in the granulosa cells in the pool of small antral follicles. The first indication that selection has occurred is that the granulosa cells continue dividing at a relatively fast rate in one cohort follicle while proliferation slows in the granulosa of the other cohort follicles. This effect is observed about the time of menses. Thereafter, the mitotic rate of the granulosa and theca cells remains high through the rest of antral follicle development. As the follicular phase proceeds, the selected “dominant”
