Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


time of menses. Thereafter, the mitotic rate of the granulosa and theca cells remains high through the rest of antral follicle development. As the follicular phase proceeds, the selected “dominant” follicle grows rapidly, reaching 6.9 ± 0.5 mm at cycle days 1 to 5, 13.7 ± 1.2 mm at days 6 to 10, and 18.8 ± 0.5 mm at days 11 to 14. Conversely, growth proceeds more slowly in the other antral follicles of the cohort. The underlying mechanism of selection involves the secondary rise in plasma FSH. During the menstrual cycle, the secondary FSH rise in women begins a few days before plasma progesterone falls to basal levels at the end of luteal phase. FSH levels remain elevated through the first week of the follicular phase of the cycle (Fig. 15). Increased and sustained levels of circulating FSH are obligatory for selection and female fertility. Decreased estradiol and inhibin A production by the corpus luteum (CL) are the major causes for the secondary rise in FSH and dominant follicle selection (Fig. 15). Figure 15 The luteal-follicular transition in women. Data are mean (± SEM) for daily inhibin A, inhibin B, FSH, estradiol, and progesterone levels in the luteal-follicular transition of normal cycling women (n=5). Data are centered to the day of menses in cycle 2. (Welt CK, Martin KA, Taylor AE, et al: Frequency modulation of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) during the luteal-follicular transition: evidence for FSH control of inhibin B in normal women. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 82:2645, 1997. Reproduced with permission from The Endocrine Society.) The secondary rise in FSH leads to a progressive increase in the follicular fluid levels of FSH in the microenvironment of the dominant follicle. In healthy class 5 to 8 follicles, the mean concentration of follicular fluid FSH increases from ~1.3 mIU/mL (~58 ng/ml) to ~3.2 mIU/ml (~143 ng/ml) through the follicular phase (66). By contrast, the follicular fluid levels of FSH are low or undetectable in the non-dominant cohort follicles. The entry of FSH into follicular fluid provides an obligatory induction for selection. An unanswered question in reproductive medicine concerns the mechanism whereby one cohort follicle has the capacity to concentrate (sequester?) high levels of FSH into its microenvironment. Atresia In mammals, 99.9% of the follicles (oocytes) die by atresia. A fundamental property of atresia is the activation of apoptosis in the oocyte and granulosa cells. Apoptosis is a complex process involving
