Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


99.9% of the follicles (oocytes) die by atresia. A fundamental property of atresia is the activation of apoptosis in the oocyte and granulosa cells. Apoptosis is a complex process involving signaling pathways coupled to programmed cell death (70). It can be initiated externally (extrinsic pathway) by ligand binding to cell surface “death receptor” signaling such as that induced by tumor necrosis factor (TNF) or Fas ligand. Intrinsic (intracellular) cell death pathways are mediated by alterations in mitochondrial outer membrane permeability that cause release of pro-apoptotic factors into the cytoplasm, and are typically controlled by B cell/lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) family proteins. Both pathways result in activation of caspases, a family of cysteine aspartate-specific proteases, as the final mediators of programmed cell death. Follicle atresia is controlled by a balance between pro-survival factors that promote cell proliferation, follicle growth and differentiation and pro-apoptotic factors that promote cell death. Follicle atresia and oocyte loss in adults appears to be initiated by apoptosis in the granulosa cells, unlike the massive loss of oocytes during fetal development that occurs via apoptosis within the oocyte (71). Both extrinsic and intrinsic cell death pathways appear to control apoptosis in granulosa cells. The importance of FSH in supporting follicle growth after antrum formation and in preventing apoptosis has led to the concept that FSH is a survival factor for antral follicles (72). Aspects of the downstream signaling pathway induced by FSH that are important for follicle survival have been determined recently. FSH activates the PI3K signaling pathway in granulosa cells, causing phosphorylation of Akt (protein kinase B) that leads to an increase in cell survival proteins including members of the IAP (inhibitor of apoptosis) family and resulting in inhibition of the intrinsic cell death pathway. Oocyte-secreted factors also inhibit granulosa cell apoptosis. There is evidence from the rat that GDF-9 serves as a pro-survival factor in preantral follicles by activating the PI3K signaling pathway (73). In the bovine, oocyte-secreted BMP-15 and BMP-6 are important for maintaining cumulus cell survival (71). At least three ligands of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) family have roles in ovarian follicle atresia: TNF-alpha, Fas ligand, and TRAIL (TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand) (72). Other intra-ovarian pro-apoptotic factors include Apaf-1 (apoptotic protease-activating factor-1), nodal, a TGFfamly member found in granulosa cells of apoptotic follicles, and the p53 stress response gene (74-76). Prohibitin is a ubiquitous mitochondrial membrane protein that may mediate p53-induced apoptosis in granulosa cells (77,
