Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


found in granulosa cells of apoptotic follicles, and the p53 stress response gene (74-76). Prohibitin is a ubiquitous mitochondrial membrane protein that may mediate p53-induced apoptosis in granulosa cells (77, 78). FSH ACTION IN THE GRANULOSA CELLS FSH plays an obligatory role in the mechanisms of selection and dominant follicle development, and no other ligand by itself posses such regulatory activity. The primary mechanism by which FSH controls selection is by stimulating FSH receptor-mediated signal transduction pathways in the granulosa cells. Although LH is not essential for selection, it is certainly important in regulating dominant follicle formation through its capacity to stimulate the expression of the aromatase substrate, androstendione. To understand dominant follicle development during the cycle, one must understand the actions of FSH and LH in the granulosa and theca interstitial cells, respectively. FSH Signaling The FSH receptor is part of a large family of receptors known as seven-transmembrane receptors (7TMRs) that regulate the heterotrimeric G proteins (79). It is most closely related to the thyrotropin (TSH) and lutropin/choriogonadotropin (LH/CG) receptors, which together with the FSH receptor comprise the three best-characterized glycoprotein hormone receptors. The human FSH receptor contains 678 amino acids (MR 76,465). It is organized into three domains: 1) a large extracellular NH2-terminal ligand binding domain with six potential N-linked glycosylation sites and a cluster of cysteines at the junction between the extracellular and transmembrane domains, 2) the transmembrane spanning domain composed of seven hydrophobic alpha helices that anchor the receptor to the plasma membrane, known as the “heptahelical domain”, and 3) the intracellular COOH-terminal domain that has a relatively high proportion of serine and threonine residues. The regulated phosphorylation of the amino acids in the intracellular domain plays a role in desensitization and downregulation of the FSH receptor by facilitating arrestin association with the receptor and subsequent receptor internalization (80). Traditional models of 7TMR signaling held that a ligand bound to the extracellular domain, causing a conformational change in the transmembrane region that led to activation of a single intracellular heterotrimeric G protein associated with the receptor via the COOH-terminus, i.e., a “one ligand/one receptor/one response” model. Recent work, however, has modified that view to include possible homodimeric and heterodimeric interactions between 7TMRs, including the FSH receptor. The new model proposes that receptor dimerization occurs and can modulate the intracellular response to ligand activation and the efficiency of receptor internalization (81). Indeed, there is evidence that
