Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


receptor. The new model proposes that receptor dimerization occurs and can modulate the intracellular response to ligand activation and the efficiency of receptor internalization (81). Indeed, there is evidence that “negative cooperativity” can occur between homodimerized glycoprotein receptors such that ligand binding to one receptor can diminish the ability of a second ligand to activate the second receptor in the dimer (82). This additional level of complexity in 7TMR signaling may help explain the variety of cellular responses to different amounts and combinations of glycoprotein hormones. The importance of the heptahelical domain in controlling levels of FSH receptor functional activity has been documented recently. Several different mutations in the heptahelical domain were identified in women with spontaneous ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (83). These mutations result in some constitutive activity in the absence of ligand and also higher sensitivity of the receptor to related glycoprotein ligands such as chorionic gonadotropin. This work led to the identification of FSH receptor polymorphisms that may be associated with a predisposition to more severe iatrogenic ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome during infertility treatment (84). The primary and most extensively studied FSH signaling cascade in granulosa cells involves stimulation of cyclic AMP (cAMP) production and subsequent activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) (Fig. 16). The signaling pathway is initiated when FSH binds to its receptor and induces a conformational change in the transmembrane portion of the receptor. This change leads to activation of the heterotrimeric G protein, Gs, by exchange of GTP for the GDP bound to the alpha subunit. The active Gs-GTP subunit dissociates from the G subunit complex and interacts with adenylate cyclase to generate cAMP. Cyclic AMP subsequently binds to the regulatory subunits of PKA, causing dissociation into a regulatory subunit dimer and two free catalytic subunits. The catalytic subunits phosphorylate serine and threonine residues of target proteins, including the transcription factors CREB and CREM. After phosphorylation, these transcription factors can bind to upstream DNA regulatory elements called cAMP response elements (CRE) where they act to regulate gene activity. FSH control of differential gene activity via the cAMP/PKA pathway in granulosa cells is largely responsible for the process of dominant follicle growth and development to the preovulatory stage. Figure 16 Diagram of the FSH signal transduction pathway in granulosa cells of a dominant follicle. FSH interacts with a receptor protein that has seven transmembrane spanning domains. The binding event is transduced into an intracellular signal via
