Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


pathway in granulosa cells of a dominant follicle. FSH interacts with a receptor protein that has seven transmembrane spanning domains. The binding event is transduced into an intracellular signal via the heterotrimeric G proteins. The active aGstimulating (aGs-GTP) protein interacts with its effector protein, adenylate cyclase, to initiate cAMP formation. cAMP binds to and activates protein kinase A, which in turn phosphorylates substrate proteins that stimulate transcription of the genes encoding P450AROM and LH receptor as well as activate mitosis and follicular fluid formation. (Revised from Erickson, GF: Polycystic Ovary Syndrome: Normal and Abnormal Steroidogenesis. In Schats R. and Schoemaker J (eds): Ovarian Endocrinopathies: Proceedings of the 8th Reinier deGraaf Symposium. Parthenon Publishing, 1994) Recent work has indicated that FSH activates signaling pathways in addition to the primary cAMP/PKA pathway (85). As mentioned previously, FSH signals via the PI3K pathway to activate pro-survival factors in granulosa cells. FSH receptor signaling can also activate Src family tyrosine kinases that modulate the activity of several downstream signaling pathways including those involving epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase, the low molecular weight G protein RAS, extracellular related kinases (ERK1/2), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, and PI3K (86, 87). Crosstalk between these multiple signaling pathways generates the final downstream phenotypic responses of granulosa cells to FSH signals. Stimulation of Mitosis A sustained period of rapid proliferation of the granulosa cells is characteristic of the developing dominant follicle. During the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle, the number of granulosa cells increases from about 1 x 106 cells at follicle selection to over 50 x 106 cells at the preovulatory stage (Fig. 12). In women, FSH is a key stimulator of granulosa cell proliferation (88). In addition, several locally produced polypeptides and growth factors influence granulosa cell proliferation, in part by modulating FSH action. For example, oocyte-derived GDF-9, BMP-15 and BMP-6, and granulosa/theca cell-derived activin, TGF isoforms, and estradiol stimulate granulosa cell proliferation, whereas locally produced AMH inhibits proliferation (89, 90). Therefore FSH probably acts with growth factors to regulate proliferation of human granulosa cells. Expression of Aromatase As the dominant follicle grows, the granulosa cells acquire the potential to produce large amounts of estradiol. The FSH-mediated induction of P450AROM ( CYP19 gene) expression in the granulosa cells is causal to the acquisition of the estrogen potential of the follicle (91). P450AROM is detected when a follicle reaches ~1 mm in diameter or the class 2
