Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


granulosa cells is causal to the acquisition of the estrogen potential of the follicle (91). P450AROM is detected when a follicle reaches ~1 mm in diameter or the class 2 stage, and it is seen only in the dominant follicle. P450AROM activity increases progressively, reaching very high levels in the granulosa cells of the preovulatory follicle in the late follicular phase (92-94). The type I 17-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17-HSD) is constitutively expressed in granulosa cells in follicles from the primary to the preovulatory stage (95-97). By virtue of the expression of P450AROM and 17-HSD, the granulosa cells become highly active in converting theca-derived androstenedine to estradiol. It is the progressive increase in the level of P450AROM gene expression that makes it possible for the dominant follicle to secrete the increasing amounts of in estradiol during days 7 to 12 of the menstrual cycle. Luteinization Potential During the follicular phase, the granulosa cells also acquire the potential to produce increasing amounts of progesterone. Several operative processes are involved in the acquisition of luteinization potential. To begin with, the continued stimulation of the granulosa cells by FSH is involved in this progressive process. When luteinization actually occurs, granulosa cells express large amounts of steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR), P450 side chain cleavage (P450SCC) and 3-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3-HSD). Despite the fact that a progressive increase in the potential for luteinization occurs, this process remains suppressed until just prior to ovulation. It is clear from studies in animals that the inhibition is caused by oocyte-derived luteinization inhibitors present in follicular fluid (66, 98). These luteinization inhibitors include GDF-9, BMP-6, and BMP-15. Thus, it seems likely that the potential of the antral follicle to luteinize is determined by FSH action on the granulosa cells; however, the process is inhibited by oocyte-derived luteinization inhibitors that operate to specifically repress the expression of StAR, P450SCC and 3-HSD in the granulosa cells during folliculogenesis. LH Receptor Expression Competence of the preovulatory follicle to respond to the inductive stimulus of the LH surge by undergoing ovulation involves the expression of LH receptors in the granulosa cells. FSH plays a vital role in LH receptor induction in the granulosa cells. Similar to StAR, P450SCC and 3-HSD, the expression of LH receptors remain suppressed until late in the follicular phase of the cycle. There is compelling evidence in laboratory animals that oocyte-derived inhibitors inhibit FSH-induced LH receptors in granulosa cells (66, 69).
