Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


remain suppressed until late in the follicular phase of the cycle. There is compelling evidence in laboratory animals that oocyte-derived inhibitors inhibit FSH-induced LH receptors in granulosa cells (66, 69). The interpretation is that the oocyte is responsible for inhibiting the expression of granulosa LH receptors in the developing antral follicle until the onset of the preovulatory stage. LH ACTION IN THECA INTERSTITIAL CELLS LH Signaling The human LH receptor is a glycoprotein of 675 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of about 75 kDa. The mature form of the receptor found on the cell surface, however, has an apparent Mr of 85-95 kDa because it undergoes glycosylation during transit to the cell surface (99). Conversion of the immature to the mature form of the receptor occurs slowly, and this process appears to be regulated as a mechanism of controlling expression of the mature receptor on the cell surface (99). The LH receptor is a G protein-coupled 7TMR structurally very similar to the FSH receptor. It has a long extracellular leucine rich ligand binding domain, a heptahelical transmembrane domain, and an intracellular domain responsible for G protein interactions. The intracellular domain contains consensus sites for protein kinase C (PKC) phosphorylation. A number of truncated forms of the LH receptor have been identified in which the transmembrane domain is absent. Accordingly, the truncated LH receptors may be extracellular, perhaps being secreted from the cells. We do not know if these shorter variants of LH receptor actually bind LH, but if they do they could affect the levels of free LH and thereby modulate cellular responses to LH signals. Like the FSH receptor, LH receptors are coupled to G proteins (Fig. 17). LH binds to its receptor with high affinity; and the binding event initiates a conformational change in the receptor that in turn activates the G proteins. Downstream effects of LH receptor activation, like FSH receptor activation, are mainly mediated by the GS/adenylate cyclase/cAMP/PKA pathway, resulting in phosphorylation of target proteins including CREB and CREM that modulate gene transcription. There is also evidence that other G proteins, including Gi and Gq, may be coupled to the LH receptor and mediate LH-induced activation of phospholipase C and its downstream signaling pathways (99). In any case, the second messenger molecules in the LH signaling pathway are involved in the activation of the genes in the biochemical pathway that eventually lead to androstenedione
