Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


(99). In any case, the second messenger molecules in the LH signaling pathway are involved in the activation of the genes in the biochemical pathway that eventually lead to androstenedione biosynthesis (Fig. 17). Figure 17 Diagram showing the regulatory mechanisms of androgen production by theca interstitial cells. The principal endocrine regulators of androstenedione production are LH, insulin, and lipoproteins. The LH receptor/cAMP/PKA signaling pathway leads to the induction of specific genes (broken lines) in the androstenedione biosynthetic pathway. Insulin receptor/protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) signaling can cause marked increases in this response. Lipoproteins are potent stimulators of theca androgen production by virtue of their ability to increase intracellular cholesterol which in turn is transferred to P450C22 via StAR. (Erickson, GF. Normal regulation of ovarian androgen production. Semin Reprod Endocrinol 11:307, 1993. Reproduced with permission from Thieme Medical Publishers.) Stimulation of Androgen Production At about the time of antrum formation, the theca interstitial cells begin to express their differentiated state. This event involves the expression of a battery of proteins, including LH receptors, insulin receptors, lipoprotein (HDL, LDL) receptors, StAR, P450SCC, 3-HSD, and P450c17. By virtue of the expression of these genes, the theca interstitial cells have the capacity to produce androstenedione (Fig. 17). It is significant that the theca of all antral follicles (class 1 to 8) express this differentiated state. This implies all antral follicles have the potential to produce androstenedione, a concept supported by the presence of high levels (~1 ng/ml) of androstenedione in follicular fluid in developing antral follicles (100). LH is the most important effector of theca interstitial cytodifferentiation, but insulin and lipoproteins can act in synergy with LH to amplify this process. A variety of other regulatory ligands and growth factors have been identified that modulate mammalian theca androgen production, including insulin, IGF-I, lipoprotein, activin, inhibin, GDF-9, and BMP-4 (101-107). Except for insulin, the significance of these regulatory molecules is unclear. Insulin receptors are expressed in human theca cells and the ability of the insulin receptor signal transduction pathways to stimulate androstenedione production has been demonstrated. Insulin by itself can increase androstenedione production, and importantly insulin can synergize with LH to further increase androgen biosynthesis (Fig. 17). The idea that insulin has functional significance is demonstrated by the fact that hyperinsulinemia can result in hyperandrogenism in some women. Observations in rodents indicate that LDL and HDL also stimulate steroidogenesis by human theca interstitial cells (TIC), and
