Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


by the fact that hyperinsulinemia can result in hyperandrogenism in some women. Observations in rodents indicate that LDL and HDL also stimulate steroidogenesis by human theca interstitial cells (TIC), and importantly they can cooperate with LH to cause further increases (Fig. 17). Whether increased androgen production by LDL and/or HDL has any physiological meaning is not clear. Nonetheless, it is noteworthy that HDL is the most potent stimulator of theca androgen production known so far. Finally, activin and inhibin can inhibit and stimulate, respectively, androgen production by human TIC in vitro. Recent studies have found that GDF-9 and BMP-4 interact with cultured human theca cells to inhibit androgen biosynthesis. How any of these observations fit into human physiology and pathophysiology is unknown. TWO-CELL TWO-GONADOTROPIN CONCEPT The physiological mechanism by which the dominant follicle produces estradiol is called "the two-cell two-gonadotropin concept" (Fig. 18). The delivery of LH to the theca interstitial cell leads to the synthesis and secretion of androstenedione. The amount of androgen secretion will reflect the presence within the theca of other regulatory molecules including insulin, IGF-I, lipoproteins, activin, and inhibin. Some androstenedione diffuses into the follicular fluid where it accumulates at very high concentrations. In response to the P450AROM induced in the granulosa cells by FSH stimulation, androstenedione is aromatized to estrone, which then is converted to estradiol by 17-HSD. Figure 18 Diagram showing the "Two Gonadotropin-Two Cell Concept" of follicle estrogen production. (Erickson, GF: Normal ovarian function. Clin Obstet Gynecol 21:31, 1978. Reproduced with permission from Lippincott-Raven Publishers.) OVULATION On or about the fourteenth day of an idealized 28-day menstrual cycle, the preovulatory follicle releases a mature egg enclosed within a cumulus complex for possible fertilization. This process, termed ovulation (Fig. 19), requires the collective actions of the endocrine system, immune signals, and intraovarian paracrine factors. The distinct cellular compartments in the preovulatory follicle — the oocyte, cumulus granulosa cells, mural granulosa cells, and theca cells — have dramatically different but strictly coordinated responses to the hormonal and other signals controlling ovulation. Figure 19 Photomicrograph of ovulation of a mature egg-cumulus complex through the stigma. (Hartman CG, Leathem JH In Conference on Physiological Mechanisms Concerned with Conception. Pergamon Press, New York 1959) MURAL GRANULOSA CELLS: DIFFERENTIATION During antral follicle development, suppression of LH receptor expression in cumulus granulosa cells by oocyte morphogen gradients results in much higher expression of LH receptors in the mural granulosa cells.
