Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


During antral follicle development, suppression of LH receptor expression in cumulus granulosa cells by oocyte morphogen gradients results in much higher expression of LH receptors in the mural granulosa cells. For this reason, the mural granulosa cells serve as the follicle compartment largely responsible for transducing the ovulatory LH signal. As mentioned above, LH activates the Gs/cAMP/PKA signaling pathway to induce transcriptional responses but also activates other signaling pathways including ERK and mitogen-activated protein kianse (MAPK). In response to the LH surge, these signaling pathways rapidly and dramatically induce changes in the mural granulosa cell gene expression profile. In particular, the transcription factors CREB, Sp1 and Sp3 are generated and direct transcription of additional transcriptional regulators including the progesterone receptor (PR), early growth response-1 (Egr-1), and CAAT-enhancer binding protein (C/EBP) (108). Peroxisome proliferator-activator receptor (PPAR), a PR-regulated member of the nuclear receptor superfamily, is actively transcribed in mural granulosa cells after the LH surge and is required for ovulation in the mouse model (109). This finding is of particular interest because of evidence that PPAR abnormalities may contribute to the PCOS phenotype in women (110). Together, these transcriptional regulators drive the production of a cohort of proteins critical for ovulation (Fig. 20). Figure 20 Signaling pathways and mediators of ovulation. Ovulatory surges of FSH and LH stimulate cells from multiple follicle compartments to transduce signals that collectively lead to ovulation. LH signaling is transduced by thecal and mural granulosa cells, whereas FSH signaling is transduced by mural granulosa and cumulus cells. Thecal cells (or leukocytes within the theca layer) secrete IL-1, a cytokine that stimulates cumulus cell expansion, and InsL3, a peptide that may trigger a reduction in oocyte cAMP levels. Mural granulosa cells secrete EGF-like ligands, growth factors that transduce the ovulatory response to the cumulus cells. In addition, they secrete versican and AdamTS-1, both of which become components of the cumulus cell matrix. Inter--trypsin inhibitor from the bloodstream similarly relocates to form part of the cumulus cell matrix. PGE2 generated by cumulus cells acts in an autocrine fashion to promote cAMP production that enhances ovulatory signaling cascades. Oocyte morphogens including GDF-9, BMP-15, and BMP-6, along with multiple other signaling molecules generated both within and outside the follicle, modulate cumulus cell, mural granulosa cell, and theca cell responses to ovulatory signals. IL-1, interleukin-1; InsL3, insulin-like peptide 3; Egf-L, EGF-like ligands; II, inter--trypsin inhibitor; PGE2, prostaglandin E2. Although numerous proteins
