Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


cumulus cell, mural granulosa cell, and theca cell responses to ovulatory signals. IL-1, interleukin-1; InsL3, insulin-like peptide 3; Egf-L, EGF-like ligands; II, inter--trypsin inhibitor; PGE2, prostaglandin E2. Although numerous proteins generated in the mural granulosa cells are probably required for successful ovulation, a few that have key defined roles are outlined here. The protease ADAMTS-1 is synthesized in mural granulosa cells but is secreted and becomes localized within the cumulus cell complex where it functions to cleave extracellular matrix proteins (111). One of its substrates, versican, is also generated in the mural granulosa cells but relocates to the cumulus cell complex in the periovulatory period. The epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like ligands, amphiregulin, betacellulin, and epiregulin, are synthesized as transmembrane mural granulosa cell proteins but the extracellular portion is cleaved and subsequently these factors transduce the ovulatory signal to the cumulus complex via EGF receptors located on the cumulus cells (112). The phosphodiesterase PDE4D is the major isoform found in mural granulosa cells and is responsible for degrading cAMP so that premature luteinization does not occur. CUMULUS CELLS: EXPANSION Cumulus cells undergo a distinct differentiation response to the LH surge as compared to the mural granulosa cells, in part because they express much lower levels of the LH receptor. Instead of responding directly to LH, the cumulus cells receive the ovulatory stimulus indirectly via diffusible factors, including the EGF-like ligands, from the mural granulosa cells. In addition, FSH signaling via cumulus cell FSH receptors coupled to the cAMP/PKA and PI3K signaling pathways appears to facilitate expression of genes important for ovulation. Prostaglandins also are key mediators of ovulation. In particular, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is rapidly generated by cumulus cells via induction of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) gene expression. PGE2 then acts in an autocrine fashion to stimulate its cognate 7TMR to signal via the Gs/adenylate cyclase/cAMP pathway to augment expression of additional ovulatory mediators, including the EGF-like ligands (113). The importance of prostaglandins in human ovulation was demonstrated by two groups who found that COX-2 inhibitors delay ovulation in women (114, 115)(Fig. 20). Diffusible factors from both theca cells and the oocyte also contribute to the final program of cumulus cell gene expression during ovulation. Interleukin-1 is released from cells, possibly leukocytes, within the theca compartment and acts in a paracrine fashion to induce cumulus cells to synthesize components of its extracellular matrix. The oocyte is responsible for secreting TGF family growth factors,
