Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


the theca compartment and acts in a paracrine fashion to induce cumulus cells to synthesize components of its extracellular matrix. The oocyte is responsible for secreting TGF family growth factors, including GDF-9 and BMP-15, that support differentiation of the cumulus cell phenotype and are permissive for the cumulus cell response to ovulatory stimuli (13). Together, input from the endocrine system and various follicle compartments results in the elaboration of a unique extracellular matrix between the cumulus cells in a process called “mucification” or “cumulus expansion” that is critical for successful ovulation and fertilization (Fig. 21). Figure 21 Photomicrograph showing the effects of the LH/FSH surge on egg-cumulus expansion in situ. The oocyte has resumed meiosis, the corona radiata is radiating from the zona pellucida, and the cumulus, (but not the membrana and periantral), granulosa cells have lost their attachments and appear as individual cells dispersed within the proteoglycan matrix, due to mucification. (Testart J, Thebault A, Frydman R, Papiernik E: Oocyte and Cumulus Oophorus Changes Inside the Human Follicle Cultured with Gonadotropins: In Hafez ESE, Semm K (eds) In Vitro Fertilization and Embryo Transfer. Alan R. Liss Inc., 1982 with permission from Jacques Testart) The cumulus cell matrix is comprised largely of long chains of hyaluronan generated by the activity of hyaluronan synthase 2. The hyaluronan chains are linked by proteins derived from distinct compartments: TNF-induced protein 6 from cumulus cells, versican from mural granulosa cells, and the heavy chains of inter--trypsin inhibitor derived from the serum. Other components of the cumulus cell matrix include pentraxin 3, which is required for matrix stability and retention after ovulation, and ADAMTS-1, a protease involved in matrix remodeling (111, 116). The viscoelastic properties of the cumulus cell matrix are central to successful ovulation, ovum pickup by the fallopian tube, and penetration by the sperm to reach the egg proper. OOCYTE: MEIOTIC MATURATION After a prolonged resting state, the oocyte in the preovulatory follicle resumes meiosis during the ovulation sequence. The oocyte nucleus, known as the “germinal vesicle”, undergoes a series of changes that involve germinal vesicle breakdown (GVBD), emission of the first polar body, and progression of meiosis to the second meiotic metaphase. Meiosis is arrested here and proceeds no further unless the ovulated egg is fertilized. Meiotic maturation is a vital event in ovulation because it is obligatory for normal fertilization. As discussed earlier, new data from the mouse model indicates that
