Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


ovulated egg is fertilized. Meiotic maturation is a vital event in ovulation because it is obligatory for normal fertilization. As discussed earlier, new data from the mouse model indicates that high concentrations of intra-oocyte cAMP generated by the constitutive activity of GPR3 inhibit meiotic maturation (60, 117). At the same time, cGMP crosses gap junctions from cumulus cells into the oocyte and prevents oocyte PDE3A from degrading the cAMP (63). In response to the ovulatory LH surge, LH-receptor mediated signaling is activated in mural granulosa cells. The resulting increase in cAMP levels in these cells causes a reduction in cGMP production and initiates MAPK-mediated phosphorylation of connexin proteins, causing closure of the gap junctions (118). When cGMP stops entering the oocyte, PDE3A becomes active and cleaves cAMP, resulting in a reduction of PKA activity and meiosis resumption. There is also evidence that LH-mediated secretion of EGF ligands activates EGF receptor signaling in mural and cumulus granulosa cells and promotes meiotic maturation, possibly by effects on gap junctions (119). These pathways provide redundant mechanisms to ensure that resumption of meiosis occurs as the follicle prepares for ovulation. THECA LAYER REMODELING/STIGMA FORMATION Perhaps the most dramatic change during ovulation concerns the formation of a hole in the ovary surface, known as the macula pellucida or stigma, through which the egg and cumulus mass exit the follicle. Stigma formation involves a combination of cell apoptosis, cell migration, and proteolytic digestion of extracellular matrix layers (Fig. 22). LH is directly involved in stigma formation. In response to the LH surge, the preovulatory follicle produces progesterone and prostaglandin, both of which are obligatory for the stigma to develop in laboratory animals. The most compelling data to support this concept comes from gene "knockout" experiments showing ovulation defects in female mice lacking PR, COX-2, or PPAR (109, 120-122). Mice carrying a null mutation of the PR gene develop mature preovulatory follicles that undergo cumulus expansion in response to the gonadotropin surge; however, none ovulate because of the absence of stigma formation. Similarly, targeted disruption of COX-2 or PPAR produces anovulation and infertility in female mice because stigma formation is compromised. There is some evidence that COX-2-derived fatty acid metabolites serve as activating ligands for PPAR, which then induces expression of other ovulatory mediators including endothelin-2, interleukin-6, and cGMP-dependent protein kinase II (109). Additional signals related to theca cell remodeling are mediated by nerve growth factor (NGF)
