Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


then induces expression of other ovulatory mediators including endothelin-2, interleukin-6, and cGMP-dependent protein kinase II (109). Additional signals related to theca cell remodeling are mediated by nerve growth factor (NGF) and one of its receptors, the tyrosine kinase receptor TrkA. NGF and TrkA expression are induced in theca cells in response to the LH surge (123). NGF/TrkA interactions lead to a loss of intercellular communication by disrupting gap junctions between theca cells and result in increased migratory behavior. Figure 22 Diagram of the cellular mechanisms by which the preovulatory surge of FSH and LH causes ovulation. (Erickson GF: The Ovary: Basic Principles and Concepts: In Felig P, Baxter JD, Broadus AE, Froman LA, (eds): Endocrinology and Metabolism, 3rd edition. New York, McGraw Hill, 1995) In addition to structural remodeling, the theca layer undergoes rapid alterations in the vascular supply in response to the ovulatory LH signal. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its downstream signaling pathways are required for follicle angiogenesis during antral follicle growth, and there is evidence in the primate that VEGF-mediated vascular remodeling is important for follicle rupture. VEGF promotes vascular permeability, allowing more efficient delivery of blood-borne factors including LH and FSH, and immune cells to the follicle. Indeed, elevated levels of VEGF, with consequent increases in vascular permeability, have been linked to iatrogenic ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (124). There is also evidence for important functions of the angiopoietin-TEK receptor system in regulating vascular remodeling during the ovulation cascade (125). Immune cells, including macrophages and leukocytes, are delivered to the theca layer by the vasculature and release cytokines, proteases, and free radicals that promote additional remodeling of the follicle wall. These immune-mediated and other signaling pathways converge to generate a cascade of proteolytic and remodeling events that lead to controlled degradation of the ovarian stromal matrix overlying the follicle and subsequent stigma formation and the release of the mature egg-cumulus complex (Fig. 22). LUTEINIZATION After ovulation, the follicle wall develops into the corpus luteum (Fig. 23). The corpus luteum is a large endocrine gland that produces large amounts of progesterone and estradiol during the first week of the luteal phase of the cycle. There is a fibrin clot where the antrum and liquor folliculi were located, into which loose connective tissue and blood cells invade. Cells that make up the corpus luteum are contributed by the membrana granulosa, theca interna, theca externa, and invading blood tissue (Fig.
