Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


which loose connective tissue and blood cells invade. Cells that make up the corpus luteum are contributed by the membrana granulosa, theca interna, theca externa, and invading blood tissue (Fig. 24). Figure 23 Photomicrograph of a human corpus luteum. (Bloom W, Fawcett DW (eds) in A Textbook of Histology. WB Saunders Co., Philadelphia 1975 with permission from Arnold) Figure 24 Drawing illustrating the histology of the human corpus luteum. (Bloom W, Fawcett DW (eds.) In A Textbook of Histology. WB Saunders Co., Philadelphia 1975) After ovulation, the granulosa cells attain a large size, approximately 35 µm in diameter. These cells, now called granulosa-lutein cells, have an ultrastructure typical of differentiated steroidogenic cells; they contain abundant smooth endoplasmic reticulum, tubular cristae in the mitochondria, and large clusters of lipid droplets containing cholesterol esters in the cytoplasm (126). Immediately preceeding and following ovulation, the granulosa-lutein cells express large amounts of StAR, P450SCC, 3-HSD, and P450AROM. Accordingly they have a high capacity to produce progesterone and estradiol. During the process of luteinization, LH is required for maintaining steroidogenesis by the granulosa-lutein cells. There is also evidence that lipoproteins have potent luteotrophic effects on progesterone production (127). The theca-interstitial cells also are incorporated into the corpus luteum, becoming the theca-lutein cells (Fig. 24). They can be distinguished from granulosa-lutein cells because they are smaller (approximately 15 µm in diameter) and stain more darkly. Theca-lutein cells also exhibit the ultrastructure of active steroid-secreting cells. They strongly express the enzymes in the androgen biosynthetic pathway and produce androstenedione. By virtue of this tissue specific pattern of expression of P450c17 and P450AROM it can be concluded that the two-cell-two-gonadotropin mechanism for estradiol synthesis operates in the human corpus luteum. If implantation does not occur, the corpus luteum degenerates by a process called luteolysis. The death of the human corpus luteum becomes apparent histologically 8 days after ovulation. The first sign is the shrinkage of the granulosa-lutein cells. By contrast, the theca-lutein cells appear selectively hyperstimulated during early luteolysis. After day 23 of the menstrual cycle, apoptotic cells are present in the corpus luteum. Eventually luteolysis destroys all the cells in the corpus luteum. Histologically, all that remains is a nodule of dense connective tissue called the corpus albicans. Two questions, differing in kind, arise. One concerns the nature of the luteolytic process responsible for the cessation of steroidogenesis and the activation of the apoptotic or cell death
