Morphology and Physiology of the Ovary
KEYWORDS: cells, follicle, granulosa, granulosa cells, oocyte, growth, cell, fsh, receptor, follicles, primordial, theca, ovarian, human, development


albicans. Two questions, differing in kind, arise. One concerns the nature of the luteolytic process responsible for the cessation of steroidogenesis and the activation of the apoptotic or cell death pathways. The other concerns the nature of the hCG luteotropic process responsible for the rescue of the corpus luteum of the cycle into the corpus luteum of pregnancy. Apart from some very limited data, the answers to these fundamental questions remain a mystery in women. CONCLUDING REMARKS The central conclusion of this extensive literature base is that FSH and LH play a crucial role in controlling folliculogenesis, ovulation, and luteinization in female mammals, including women. In addition to the gonadotropins, the physiological roles for growth factors in regulating FSH- and LH-dependent signaling, observed experimentally mainly in rodents and other domestic animals, suggest potential clinical relevance in fertility and infertility in women. At present, we have precious little knowledge about the physiological role of growth factor-dependent mechanisms operating during the normal menstrual cycle. We can hope that finding the links between growth factor-mediated events in human ovary physiology and pathophysiology could help in the design novel therapeutic strategies for improving women’s health. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors thank Audrey Williams for creating original artwork. This work was supported by the Intramural Research Program of the National Institutes of Health, National Institutes of Environmental Health Sciences, Z01-ES1 02985. References 1. Gougeon A 1996 Regulation of ovarian follicular development in primates: facts and hypotheses. Endocr Rev 17:121-155 2. Reynolds SRM 1950 The vasculature of the ovary and ovarian function. Recent Prog Horm Res 5:65 3. Soyal SM, Amleh A, Dean J 2000 FIGalpha, a germ cell-specific transcription factor required for ovarian follicle formation. Development 127:4645-4654 4. Uda M, Ottolenghi C, Crisponi L, Garcia JE, Deiana M, Kimber W, Forabosco A, Cao A, Schlessinger D, Pilia G 2004 Foxl2 disruption causes mouse ovarian failure by pervasive blockage of follicle development. Hum Mol Genet 13:1171-1181 5. Harris SE, Chand AL, Winship IM, Gersak K, Aittomaki K, Shelling AN 2002 Identification of novel mutations in FOXL2 associated with premature ovarian failure. Mol Hum Reprod 8:729-733 6. Udar N, Yellore V, Chalukya M, Yelchits S, Silva-Garcia R, Small K 2003 Comparative analysis of the FOXL2 gene and characterization of mutations in BPES patients. Hum Mutat 22:222-228 7. Zhao H, Chen ZJ, Qin Y, Shi Y, Wang S, Choi Y, Simpson JL, Rajkovic A 2008 Transcription factor FIGLA is mutated
