Case report
KEYWORDS: glomerulonephritis, kidney, infection, case, iga, patient, staphylococcus, glomerular, renal, negative, biopsy, deposits, mesangial, injury, treatment


Staphylococcus- induced glomerulonephritis: potential role for corticosteroids Rui Filipe Nogueira ,1 Nuno Oliveira,1,2 Vítor Sousa,2,3 Rui Alves1,2 1Department of Nephrology, SUMMARY immunosuppressive approach due to the concomitant Centro Hospitalar e Universitario Staphylococcus aureus is a troublesome pathogen, infection.3–6 Nonetheless, there are some reports of Portugal ranging from benign skin infections to life- threatening in patients whose glomerulonephritis did not resolve 2Faculdade de Medicina, conditions such as endocarditis and osteomyelitis. The even after control of the infection.7–10 Staphylococcus- Universidade de Coimbra, kidney can be affected through a rapidly progressive induced glomerulonephritis usually carries a relatively Coimbra, Portugal 3Department of Pathology, glomerulonephritis mediated by an inflammatory poor prognosis, with only 25% of patients recovering Centro Hospitalar e Universitario reaction against a superantigen deposited in the renal function.5 de Coimbra EPE, Coimbra, glomerulus during the infection’s course. This Portugal glomerulopathy has a poor prognosis, often leading CASE PRESENTATION to chronically impaired kidney function, eventually We present the case of a 66- year- old man with a history Correspondence to progressing to end- stage renal disease. Treatment rests Dr Rui Filipe Nogueira; of abdominal aorta pseudoaneurysm submitted to on antibiotherapy. Despite the inflammatory role in this rui_ filipe_ 10@ live. com. pt corrective surgery with endovascular aortobifemoral disease’s pathophysiology, most authors discourage a prosthesis placement in 2006. Thirteen years later, he simultaneous immunosuppressive approach given the Accepted 9 January 2021 was admitted with vascular graft infection at the right concomitant infection. However, there are some reports femoral segment of the prosthesis and acute kidney of success after administration of systemic corticosteroids injury, with a serum creatinine (sCr) of 1.6 mg/dL. in these patients. We present a 66-y ear- old man with a Haemocultures grew a methicillin- sensitive Staphylo- staphylococcus- induced glomerulonephritis brought on coccus aureus. The endovascular device was replaced by a vascular graft infection, with rapidly deteriorating by an iliofemoral cadaver allograft, and the patient kidney function despite extraction of the infected graft completed a 15- day antibiotic treatment course with and 3 weeks of antibiotherapy with achievement of vancomycin and gentamicin. He was discharged infection control. Kidney function improved after the with oral trimetropim–sulfamethoxazol (TMP/SMX) introduction of corticosteroids. This case highlights the 960 mg 2id (two times a day). His sCr on discharge potential role of corticosteroids in selected cases of was 1.5 mg/dL, and his C reactive protein was 3.5 mg/ staphylococcus-i nduced glomerulonephritis, particularly dL. One week later, follow- up
