Case report
KEYWORDS: glomerulonephritis, kidney, infection, case, iga, patient, staphylococcus, glomerular, renal, negative, biopsy, deposits, mesangial, injury, treatment


discharge potential role of corticosteroids in selected cases of was 1.5 mg/dL, and his C reactive protein was 3.5 mg/ staphylococcus-i nduced glomerulonephritis, particularly dL. One week later, follow- up analytical workup those in which the infection is under control. showed declining renal function to an sCr of 5.21 mg/ dL (C reactive protein of 1.09 mg/dL), so the patient was immediately admitted to the hospital for medical BACKGROUND treatment and aetiological investigation. He had no Staphylococcus aureus is a commensal bacterium complains and reported a preserved urine output. He and an important pathogen responsible for a variety did not show oedema, although his blood pressure of infections, either benign and easily treated (skin was slightly elevated (154/73 mm Hg). Urine analysis and soft tissue infections) or serious and with a showed microscopic haematuria (>100 erythrocytes protracted course (infective endocarditis and osteo- per high- power field (HPF)). Urinary protein/creati- myelitis). It is also responsible for an increasing nine ratio was 600 mg/g. Further diagnostic workup number of healthcare-a ssociated infections, partic- of acute renal injury was unremarkable, except for ularly those related to prosthetic material (eg, endo- a dubious positive titre for ANCA- PR3 antibody vascular and articular). (table 1). Cultures were negative, although this may During these infections, a superantigen produced have been influenced by simultaneous antibiotic treat- by the bacterium circulates in the bloodstream ment. Renal ultrasound showed normal- sized kidneys and can deposit in various tissues. In the case of with an adequate thickness and differentiation of the parenchymal rim. Renal biopsy showed endocapil- staphylococcus-a ssociated glomerulonephritis, lary and mesangial proliferative glomerulonephritis these deposits end up in the kidney, stimulating with an identified crescent (figures 1 and 2). Immu- an inflammatory reaction mediated by immune nofluorescence reported C3 and IgA mesangial and complexes that culminates in a diffuse endocapil- © BMJ Publishing Group glomerular wall deposits (figures 3 and 4). Electron lary proliferative and exudative glomerulonephritis L re im - u i s te e d . S 2 e 0 e 2 r 1 ig . h N t o s a c n o d m mercial with a crescentic and necrotising pattern.1 2 Immu- microscopy was not performed. permissions. Published by BMJ. nofluorescence most often shows C3 dominant, or codominant with IgG or IgA, glomerular staining.3 INVESTIGATIONS To cite: Nogueira RF, Treatment consists on antibiotherapy against the Complementary diagnostic exams (table 1) done Oliveira
