Case report
KEYWORDS: glomerulonephritis, kidney, infection, case, iga, patient, staphylococcus, glomerular, renal, negative, biopsy, deposits, mesangial, injury, treatment


is also frequent; however, IgA deposits scopic haematuria and/or kidney injury is usually synpharyngitic [Atraia a atenção do seu leitor colocando uma boa citação (simultaneous with a respiratory infection). Other infections no documento ou utilise este espaço para enfatizar um ponto may sometimes be identified as triggers. In our case, the kidney chave. Para colocar esta caixa de texto noutro local da página, injury developed 3 weeks after the infection was detected; this is arraste- a.] unusual in IgA nephropathy and favours our diagnosis. Besides, Figures 1–4 show kidney biopsy results. The first figure reveals immunofluorescence from the kidney biopsy showed C3 domi- glomerular capillary congestion with marked neutrophil infil- nance, as opposed to what usually happens in IgA nephropathy tration as well as some mesangial proliferation. In figure 2, we can see a glomerulus containing a fibrocellular crescent (mostly cellular). Immunofluorescence (figures 3 and 4) shows C3 (++) Figure 1 Light microscopy from kidney biopsy showing endocapillary and mesangial proliferation with intense congestion of the glomerular Figure 3 Immunofluorescence microscopy from kidney biopsy tuft, H&E 400×. showing C3 glomerular deposits (2+), 200×. 2 Nogueira RF, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2021;14:e237011. doi: Case report glomerulonephritis occurs with an infectious process, it may take up to 10 weeks (median time is 1 week) to develop, which is in agreement with the notion that it is driven by immunocomplex deposition, since these require some time to develop.3 7 Kidney injury was detected in our patient 3 weeks after the infection diagnosis. However, one can easily presume it started sooner as the patient’s creatinine was already 5.26 mg/dL at the time kidney injury was detected. These patients usually present with acute kidney injury (mean sCr of 5.1 mg/dL), microscopic haema- turia and variable proteinuria, as was found in our patient.12 Hypocomplementaemia may occur but is not universal.5 Our patient had a marginally positive ANCA titre that can occur in staphylococcus- associated glomerulonephritis, particularly in those cases with associated endocarditis.13 Light micros- copy findings include endocapillary and exudative glomerulo- nephritis, sometimes accompanied by mesangial proliferation and, rarely, crescent formation.4 Immunofluorescence usually reveals a coarsely granular mesangial and glomerular wall Figure 4 Immunofluorescence microscopy from kidney biopsy staining for IgA and C3 (‘starry sky pattern’). However, other showing IgA glomerular deposits (1+), 200×. distributions are sometimes found, such as the ‘garland pattern’ and the ‘mesangial pattern’, with predominant glomerular wall and mesangial staining, respectively.12
