Case report
KEYWORDS: glomerulonephritis, kidney, infection, case, iga, patient, staphylococcus, glomerular, renal, negative, biopsy, deposits, mesangial, injury, treatment


pattern’). However, other showing IgA glomerular deposits (1+), 200×. distributions are sometimes found, such as the ‘garland pattern’ and the ‘mesangial pattern’, with predominant glomerular wall and mesangial staining, respectively.12 14 Electron microscopy is (IgA dominance). Hence, timing of kidney injury and histolog- helpful in order to verify the presence of subepithelial humps, ical presentation were the most striking hints that allowed us to which is a very common finding.5 Our patient’s kidney biopsy, make the diagnosis. In C3 glomerulonephritis, C3 deposits are not typically accom- of staphylococcus- associated glomerulonephritis. Unfortunately, panied by immunoglobulin deposits, as we see in this patient’s we were unable to perform electron microscopy. kidney biopsy. Besides, there is usually complement consump- Intravenous methylprednisolone is usually used to suppress tion in this disorder, contrary to what happened in our case. renal inflammatory activity, given its fast and strong immuno- Poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis would present in a suppressive effect. However, this is also the reason why its use similar way. However, it is normally associated with a respira- is disapproved in infection associated glomerulonephritis (shunt tory tract infection and occurs mainly in children. In any case, nephritis and staphylococcal glomerulonephritis).3 12 15 Some- the bacteria identified was a staphylococcus species. times kidney function does not improve in spite of the adequate Other crescentic glomerulonephritis, such as ANCA vasculitis antibiotherapy.7–10 This is understandable, owing to the fact that (ANCA- PR3 titre was dubious) could be responsible for this clin- an immunological process is contributing to this glomerulone- ical picture. However, the glomerulonephritis presented is not phritis and, although it is a response to the background infec- pauci- immune (C3 and IgA deposits), and ANCA immunofluo- tious process, it can sometimes be disproportionally intense and rescence was negative. require an immunosuppressive approach. There are some case reports of staphylococcus- associated TREATMENT glomerulonephritis successfully treated with steroid therapy A sole methylprednisolone pulse (500 mg) was administrated together with antibiotics.7–10 Steroids were usually prescribed followed by prednisolone 1 mg/kg/day. Corticosteroids were when there was refractoriness of the renal manifestations in rapidly tapered (10 mg/day by the second month) and eventually spite of systemic antibiotics or when crescent formation was stopped after 3 months of therapy. Linezolid was substituted for verified.7 9 The authors recommend continuing antibiotherapy TMP/SMX on admission, given the possibility of an interstitial during the administration of corticosteroids.7 8 nephritis attributed to the later antibiotic; it was kept throughout Facing
