Case report
KEYWORDS: glomerulonephritis, kidney, infection, case, iga, patient, staphylococcus, glomerular, renal, negative, biopsy, deposits, mesangial, injury, treatment


authors recommend continuing antibiotherapy TMP/SMX on admission, given the possibility of an interstitial during the administration of corticosteroids.7 8 nephritis attributed to the later antibiotic; it was kept throughout Facing a scenario in which the infectious process is under the entire corticosteroid treatment. control and the patient has not recovered kidney function, physicians have to consider potential benefits and risks of OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP starting corticosteroid therapy. In this case, the risk was consid- Patient’s kidney function improved after introduction of cortico- ered to be low, since the patient had already been on 21 days steroid treatment, and he was discharged 2 weeks later with an of antibiotherapy, had been without fever for at least 2 weeks sCr of 3.56 mg/dL. He was kept on prednisolone (with a rapid and had a C reactive protein of 1.09 mg/dL at admission. The tapering scheme) and linezolid 600 mg 2id. Two months later, benefits were theoretically very significant, considering we were his kidney function improved further to an sCr of 1.75 mg/dL, facing a rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis with at least one under prednisolone 10 mg/day. The patient completed 3 months crescent formation (others might have been missed since this of corticosteroid therapy. On his last follow-u p visit (12 months is a focal segmental lesion) and steroids could make the differ- after the admission), his sCr had stabilised on 1.9 mg/dL, his ence between initiation of renal replacement therapy or partial proteinuria had decreased to 125 mg/g (protein-t o- creatinine recovery of kidney function. In our case, this option was very ratio) and microscopic haematuria had disappeared. He did not rewarding, as the patient was discharged with an sCr of 3.56 mg/ have any further infectious complications. dL and a C reactive protein of 0.36 mg/dL. Antibiotics were provided during the entire corticosteroid therapy course. On DISCUSSION admission, it was switched from TMP/SMX to linezolid due to Staphylococcus- associated glomerulonephritis is an uncommon the acute kidney injury. We must add that the biopsy also showed but increasingly reported renal disease.11 Even though this some degree of interstitial nephritis that may have been related Nogueira RF, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2021;14:e237011. doi: 3 Case report to the former antibiotic. This lesion pattern might partly justify and provide the results, revised the work critically for important intellectual content the results achieved with corticosteroid administration, although and was involved in the final approval of
