Case report
KEYWORDS: glomerulonephritis, kidney, infection, case, iga, patient, staphylococcus, glomerular, renal, negative, biopsy, deposits, mesangial, injury, treatment


might partly justify and provide the results, revised the work critically for important intellectual content the results achieved with corticosteroid administration, although and was involved in the final approval of the version published. RA was involved in conception and design of the paper as well as acquisition and interpretation of data a favourable impact on the glomerular lesions was certainly made and revised it critically for intellectual content and approved it for publication. as witnessed by the resolution of haematuria and the marked Funding The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any reduction of proteinuria. Presently, 12 months have passed and funding agency in the public, commercial or not- for- profit sectors. the patient maintains partial recovery of kidney function (sCr of Competing interests None declared. 1.9 mg/dL) and a benign urine urinalysis without further infec- tious complications. Patient consent for publication Obtained. Hence, this patient was treated with antibiotics and corticoste- Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. roids for a staphylococcal glomerulonephritis with a good clin- ORCID iD ical and analytical response. Based on ours and other’s published Rui Filipe Nogueira http:// orcid. org/ 0000- 0001- 8735- 5952 experiences, corticosteroids may be a reasonable option for staphylococcal glomerulonephritis patients who fail to respond to isolated antibiotic therapy despite adequate control of the REFERENCES infectious process. Despite the need for further studies to more 1 Nasr SH, Radhakrishnan J, D’Agati VD. Bacterial infection- related glomerulonephritis precisely define the role of steroid therapy in these patients, the in adults. Kidney Int 2013;83:792–803. 2 Fujigaki Y, Yousif Y, Morioka T, et al. Glomerular injury induced by cationic 70- kD potential benefits may be substantial as the need for long-t ime staphylococcal protein; specific immune response is not involved in early phase in rats. renal replacement therapy may be avoided with significant long- J Pathol 1998;184:436–45. note, however, that there is no evidence for routine use of immu- 4 Glassock RJ, Alvarado A, Prosek J, et al. Staphylococcus- related glomerulonephritis nosuppression in this glomerulopathy. and poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis: why defining "post" is important in understanding and treating infection- related glomerulonephritis. Am J Kidney Dis 2015;65:826–32. Learning points 5 Nasr SH, Fidler ME, Valeri AM, et al. Postinfectious glomerulonephritis in the elderly. J Am Soc Nephrol 2011;22:187–95. ► Staphylococcus-i nduced glomerulonephritis is an immune 6 Nadasdy T, Hebert LA. Infection- Related glomerulonephritis: understanding mechanisms. Semin Nephrol 2011;31:369–75.
