Atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, adults, quality, adults atrial, data, anticoagulation, statement, stroke, nice, source, local, control, vitamin


Quality statements Statement 1 Adults with non-valvular atrial fibrillation and a CHA DS -VAS stroke risk score of 2 or above are offered anticoagulation. Statement 2 Adults with atrial fibrillation are not prescribed aspirin as monotherapy for stroke prevention. Statement 3 Adults with atrial fibrillation who are prescribed anticoagulation discuss the options with their healthcare professional at least once a year. Statement 4 Adults with atrial fibrillation taking a vitamin K antagonist who have poor anticoagulation control have their anticoagulation reassessed. Statement 5 Adults with atrial fibrillation whose treatment fails to control their symptoms are referred for specialised management within 4 weeks. Statement 6 (developmental) Adults with atrial fibrillation on long-term vitamin K antagonist therapy are supported to self-manage with a coagulometer. Quality statement 1: Anticoagulation to reduce stroke risk Quality statement Adults with non-valvular atrial fibrillation and a CHA DS -VAS stroke risk score of 2 or above are offered anticoagulation. Rationale Adults with non-valvular atrial fibrillation and a CHA DS -VAS stroke risk score of 2 or above are at a much higher risk of having a stroke than the general population. Anticoagulation therapy can help to prevent strokes by reducing the likelihood of a blood clot forming. A person's bleeding risk should be taken into account in reaching a decision about anticoagulation, although for most people the benefit of anticoagulation outweighs the bleeding risk. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements and written clinical protocols to ensure that adults with non-valvular atrial fibrillation and a CHA DS -VAS stroke risk score of 2 or above are offered anticoagulation. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of adults with non-valvular atrial fibrillation and a CHA DS -VAS stroke risk score of 2 or above who receive anticoagulation. Numerator – the number in the denominator who receive anticoagulation. Denominator – the number of adults with non-valvular atrial fibrillation and a CHA DS -VAS stroke risk score of 2 or above. Data source: Local data collection. Data can be collected using the NHS Quality and Outcomes Framework indicator AF007. Outcome Stroke rates in adults with a primary diagnosis of non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Data source: Local data collection. Data can be collected using the Royal
