Atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, adults, quality, adults atrial, data, anticoagulation, statement, stroke, nice, source, local, control, vitamin


and Outcomes Framework indicator AF007. Outcome Stroke rates in adults with a primary diagnosis of non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Data source: Local data collection. Data can be collected using the Royal College of Physicians' Sentinel Stroke National Audit Programme (SSNAP), question 2.1. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (primary, secondary and tertiary care services) have written clinical protocols in place to ensure that anticoagulation is offered to adults with non-valvular atrial fibrillation and a CHA DS -VAS stroke risk score of 2 or above. Healthcare professionals offer anticoagulation to adults with non-valvular atrial fibrillation and a CHA DS -VAS stroke risk score of 2 or above. Commissioners commission primary, secondary and tertiary care services with written clinical protocols to ensure that adults with non-valvular atrial fibrillation and a CHA DS -VAS stroke risk score of 2 or above are offered anticoagulation. Adults with a type of atrial fibrillation called 'non-valvular' who are identified by their doctor as being at higher risk of having a stroke are offered treatment with a medicine called an anticoagulant, to lower their risk of having a blood clot that could cause a stroke. Source guidance Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline 196 (2021), recommendation 1.6.3 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement CHA DS -VASc stroke risk score 2 2 The CHA DS -VASc stroke risk score estimates the risk of stroke in people with 2 2 non-valvular atrial fibrillation. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on atrial fibrillation, recommendations 1.2.1 and 1.6.3] Bleeding risk score Bleeding risk, estimated using ORBIT bleeding risk score, should be taken into account when offering anticoagulation. The ORBIT bleeding risk score estimates the risk of bleeding. Although ORBIT is the best tool for this purpose, other bleeding risk tools may need to be used until it is embedded in clinical pathways and electronic systems. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on atrial fibrillation, recommendation 1.2.2] Quality statement 2: Use of aspirin Quality statement Adults with atrial fibrillation are not prescribed aspirin as monotherapy for stroke prevention. Rationale The risks of taking aspirin outweigh any benefits of taking it as monotherapy for stroke prevention in adults with atrial fibrillation. Healthcare professionals should be aware that adults with atrial fibrillation may need to take aspirin for other indications. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They
