Atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, adults, quality, adults atrial, data, anticoagulation, statement, stroke, nice, source, local, control, vitamin


may need to take aspirin for other indications. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local monitoring arrangements to ensure that adults with atrial fibrillation are not prescribed aspirin as monotherapy for stroke prevention. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of adults with atrial fibrillation who are prescribed aspirin as monotherapy for stroke prevention. Numerator – the number in the denominator who are prescribed aspirin as monotherapy for stroke prevention. Denominator – the number of adults with atrial fibrillation. Data source: Local data collection. Data can be collected using the Royal College of Physicians' Sentinel Stroke National Audit Programme (SSNAP), question 2.1.6. Outcome Rates of prescribing aspirin. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (primary and secondary care services) monitor prescribing of pharmacological treatment(s) for adults with atrial fibrillation and have protocols in place to ensure that aspirin is not prescribed as monotherapy for stroke prevention. Healthcare professionals do not prescribe aspirin as monotherapy for stroke prevention for adults with atrial fibrillation. Commissioners specify that primary and secondary care services ensure that aspirin is not prescribed as monotherapy for stroke prevention for adults with atrial fibrillation. Adults with atrial fibrillation are not prescribed aspirin on its own for preventing stroke. Source guidance Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline 196 (2021), recommendation 1.6.14 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Aspirin as monotherapy for stroke prevention Adults with atrial fibrillation might be taking aspirin for a variety of other conditions; if so, this may result in the person taking aspirin (for the other conditions) as well as anticoagulants. If a person chooses not to take anticoagulants, this decision and the reason(s) for it should be documented. [NICE's 2014 full guideline on atrial fibrillation] Quality statement 3: Discussing options for anticoagulation Quality statement Adults with atrial fibrillation who are prescribed anticoagulation discuss the options with their healthcare professional at least once a year. Rationale Adults with non-valvular atrial fibrillation should have the opportunity to discuss the choice of suitable anticoagulants with their healthcare professional, in order to improve adherence to treatment. Available options should include direct-acting oral anticoagulants and vitamin K antagonists. In adults with valvular atrial
