Atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, adults, quality, adults atrial, data, anticoagulation, statement, stroke, nice, source, local, control, vitamin


of suitable anticoagulants with their healthcare professional, in order to improve adherence to treatment. Available options should include direct-acting oral anticoagulants and vitamin K antagonists. In adults with valvular atrial fibrillation, only vitamin K antagonists can be used, and this should be explained to the person. Adherence to anticoagulation can help to prevent stroke by reducing the likelihood of a blood clot forming. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults with atrial fibrillation who are prescribed anticoagulation can discuss the options with their healthcare professional at least once a year. Process Proportion of adults with atrial fibrillation who are prescribed anticoagulation who discuss the options with their healthcare professional at least once a year. Numerator – the number in the denominator who discuss the options with their healthcare professional at least once a year. Denominator – the number of adults with atrial fibrillation who are prescribed anticoagulation. Data source: Local data collection. Outcome a) Patient experience. Data source: Local data collection. b) Rates of adherence to anticoagulation therapy for adults with atrial fibrillation. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (primary and secondary care services) have protocols in place to ensure that adults with atrial fibrillation who are prescribed anticoagulation can discuss the options with their healthcare professional at least once a year. Healthcare professionals discuss the options at least once a year with adults with atrial fibrillation who are prescribed anticoagulation. There should not be mandatory use of vitamin K antagonists before offering non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants for people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Commissioners specify that primary and secondary care service providers have protocols in place to ensure that adults with atrial fibrillation who are prescribed anticoagulation can discuss the options with their healthcare professional at least once a year. Adults with atrial fibrillation who are prescribed an anticoagulant have the chance to talk with their doctor at least once a year about the types of anticoagulant they could have and the advantages and disadvantages of each. Source guidance Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline 196 (2021), recommendations 1.4.1, 1.6.1 and 1.6.3 to 1.6.5 Definitions of terms used in
