Atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, adults, quality, adults atrial, data, anticoagulation, statement, stroke, nice, source, local, control, vitamin


and the advantages and disadvantages of each. Source guidance Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline 196 (2021), recommendations 1.4.1, 1.6.1 and 1.6.3 to 1.6.5 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Anticoagulants Anticoagulants for people with atrial fibrillation include direct-acting oral anticoagulants (such as apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban and rivaroxaban) and vitamin K antagonists. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on atrial fibrillation, recommendations 1.6.3 to 1.6.5] Discuss Any discussion with an adult with atrial fibrillation should involve both oral and written information. A patient decision aid can be used to inform the discussion. A discussion should take place at least once a year to review the need and quality of anticoagulation. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on atrial fibrillation, recommendation 1.6.17, NICE's guideline on patient experience in adult NHS services, recommendation 1.5.12, and expert consensus] Equality and diversity considerations Discussions with adults with atrial fibrillation about choice of anticoagulants should take into account any additional needs, such as physical, sensory or learning disabilities, and people who do not speak or read English. People should have access to an interpreter or advocate if needed. Quality statement 4: Anticoagulation control Quality statement Adults with atrial fibrillation taking a vitamin K antagonist who have poor anticoagulation control have their anticoagulation reassessed. Rationale Improving poor anticoagulation control by reassessing the international normalised ratio (INR) at each visit can ensure that a person's risks of stroke and of having a major bleed are as low as possible. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements and written clinical protocols to ensure that adults with atrial fibrillation taking a vitamin K antagonist have their anticoagulation reassessed if their anticoagulation control is poor. Data source: Local data collection. Process a) Proportion of adults with atrial fibrillation taking a vitamin K antagonist who have their time in therapeutic range (TTR) recorded at each visit for INR assessment. Numerator – the number in the denominator who have their TTR recorded at each visit for INR assessment. Denominator – the number of adults with atrial fibrillation taking a vitamin K antagonist. Data source: Local data collection. b) Proportion of adults with poor anticoagulation control who have it reassessed. Numerator – the number in the denominator who
