Atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, adults, quality, adults atrial, data, anticoagulation, statement, stroke, nice, source, local, control, vitamin


taking a vitamin K antagonist. Data source: Local data collection. b) Proportion of adults with poor anticoagulation control who have it reassessed. Numerator – the number in the denominator who have their anticoagulation reassessed. Denominator – the number of adults with poor anticoagulation control. Data source: Local data collection. Outcome a) Rates of thromboembolic complications. Data source: Local data collection. b) Patient experience. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (secondary care services) have systems in place with written clinical protocols for reassessing anticoagulation in adults with atrial fibrillation who are taking a vitamin K antagonist and have poor anticoagulation control. Healthcare professionals reassess anticoagulation and record the results for adults with atrial fibrillation who are taking a vitamin K antagonist and have poor anticoagulation control. Commissioners commission secondary care services that have written clinical protocols for reassessing anticoagulation in adults with atrial fibrillation who are taking a vitamin K antagonist and have poor anticoagulation control. Adults with atrial fibrillation who are taking a type of anticoagulant called a vitamin K antagonist (such as warfarin) have their anticoagulation treatment reassessed if regular tests show that it isn't working well. Source guidance Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline 196 (2021), recommendations 1.6.10 to 1.6.13 and 1.6.17 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Poor anticoagulation control Poor anticoagulation control can be shown by any of the following: • 2 INR values higher than 5 or 1 INR value higher than 8 within the past 6 months • 2 INR values less than 1.5 within the past 6 months • TTR less than 65%. The NICE guideline on atrial fibrillation recommends that TTR is measured at each visit and at least annually, and that healthcare professionals should: • use a validated method of measurement such as the Rosendaal method for computer-assisted dosing or proportion of tests in range for manual dosing • exclude measurements taken during the first 6 weeks of treatment • calculate TTR over a maintenance period of at least 6 months. [NICE's guideline on atrial fibrillation, recommendations 1.6.10, 1.6.11 and 1.6.17] Reassessing anticoagulation The NICE guideline on atrial fibrillation recommends that the following factors should be taken into account and addressed if they are contributing to poor anticoagulation control: • cognitive function • adherence to prescribed therapy • illness • interacting drug therapy • lifestyle factors including diet and
