Atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, adults, quality, adults atrial, data, anticoagulation, statement, stroke, nice, source, local, control, vitamin


and addressed if they are contributing to poor anticoagulation control: • cognitive function • adherence to prescribed therapy • illness • interacting drug therapy • lifestyle factors including diet and alcohol consumption. If poor anticoagulation control cannot be improved as a result of this reassessment, the risks and benefits of alternative stroke prevention strategies should be evaluated and discussed with the person. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on atrial fibrillation, recommendations 1.6.12 and 1.6.13] Quality statement 5: Referral for specialised management Quality statement Adults with atrial fibrillation whose treatment fails to control their symptoms are referred for specialised management within 4 weeks. Rationale Prompt referral of adults with atrial fibrillation to specialised management if treatment fails can help to alleviate symptoms and reduce the likelihood of poor outcomes such as stroke and heart failure. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements and referral pathways to ensure that adults with atrial fibrillation whose treatment fails to control their symptoms are referred for specialised management within 4 weeks. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of adults with atrial fibrillation whose treatment fails to control their symptoms who are referred for specialised management within 4 weeks. Numerator – the number in the denominator who are referred for specialised management within 4 weeks. Denominator – the number of adults with atrial fibrillation whose treatment fails to control their symptoms. Data source: Local data collection. Outcome a) Adults with atrial fibrillation symptom control. Data source: Local data collection. b) Rates of stroke and heart failure for adults with atrial fibrillation. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (primary and secondary care services) have procedures in place to ensure that adults with atrial fibrillation whose treatment fails to control their symptoms are referred for specialised management within 4 weeks. Healthcare professionals refer adults with atrial fibrillation whose treatment fails to control their symptoms, to specialised management within 4 weeks. Commissioners ensure that primary and secondary care providers have procedures in place so that adults with atrial fibrillation whose treatment fails to control their symptoms are referred for specialised management within 4 weeks. Adults with atrial fibrillation who still have symptoms after treatment
