Atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, adults, quality, adults atrial, data, anticoagulation, statement, stroke, nice, source, local, control, vitamin


that adults with atrial fibrillation whose treatment fails to control their symptoms are referred for specialised management within 4 weeks. Adults with atrial fibrillation who still have symptoms after treatment are referred within 4 weeks for specialised care that aims to ease their symptoms and reduce their risk of having a stroke or heart failure. Source guidance Atrial fibrillation: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline 196 (2021), recommendation 1.5.1 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Fails to control symptoms Adults whose treatment fails to control the symptoms of atrial fibrillation at any stage. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on atrial fibrillation, recommendation 1.5.1] Referred within 4 weeks Referral should be no longer than 4 weeks after the final failed treatment or no longer than 4 weeks after recurrence of atrial fibrillation after cardioversion. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on atrial fibrillation, recommendation 1.5.1] Specialised management Specialised management can be provided by an 'atrial fibrillation specialist' such as a cardiologist or nurse with an interest in arrhythmia. Specialised management should be provided through a package of care that covers key elements of service provision, tailored to the person with atrial fibrillation. Formally documenting key elements of the service can help to ensure that it has been delivered. [NICE's 2014 full guideline on atrial fibrillation] Quality statement 6 (developmental): Self-monitoring of anticoagulation Developmental quality statements set out an emergent area of cutting-edge service delivery or technology currently found in a minority of providers and indicating outstanding performance. They will need specific, significant changes to be put in place, such as redesign of services or new equipment. Developmental quality statement Adults with atrial fibrillation on long-term vitamin K antagonist therapy are supported to self-manage with a coagulometer. Rationale Enabling adults with atrial fibrillation to self-manage their coagulation using a coagulometer can help to optimise their anticoagulation treatment. As well as reducing the frequency of hospital or clinic visits, it can improve health outcomes such as risk of stroke and bleeding. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements for adults with atrial fibrillation on long-term vitamin K antagonist therapy to be supported to self-manage with a coagulometer. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of adults with atrial fibrillation
