Atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, adults, quality, adults atrial, data, anticoagulation, statement, stroke, nice, source, local, control, vitamin


adults with atrial fibrillation on long-term vitamin K antagonist therapy to be supported to self-manage with a coagulometer. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of adults with atrial fibrillation on long-term vitamin K antagonist therapy who are supported to self-manage with a coagulometer. Numerator – the number in the denominator who are supported to self-manage with a coagulometer. Denominator – the number of adults with atrial fibrillation on long-term vitamin K antagonist therapy. Data source: Local data collection. Outcome a) Patient experience. Data source: Local data collection. b) Rates of adults on long-term vitamin K antagonist therapy who self-manage. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (secondary care services) make coagulometers for self-monitoring available to adults with atrial fibrillation who are on long-term vitamin K antagonist therapy, and ensure that support is available for their use. Healthcare professionals offer coagulometers to adults with atrial fibrillation who are on long-term vitamin K antagonist therapy so that they can self-monitor their coagulation status, provided that they are willing and able to do so. Healthcare professionals also provide support for people using the coagulometers. Commissioners ensure that secondary care providers have coagulometers for self-monitoring available and offer them to adults with atrial fibrillation who are on long-term vitamin K antagonist therapy, and provide support for their use. Adults with atrial fibrillation who are taking a vitamin K antagonist over a long time are (if appropriate) offered a monitor they can use to help check how well the treatment is working, if they want to use the monitor and can do so. They are also given support by healthcare professionals to use the monitor. Source guidance Atrial fibrillation and heart valve disease: self-monitoring coagulation status using point-of- care coagulometers (the CoaguChek XS system). NICE HealthTech guidance 353 (2025), recommendation 1.1 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Coagulometer Coagulometers monitor blood clotting in adults taking anticoagulants. The CoaguChek XS system is recommended for self-monitoring coagulation status in adults on long-term vitamin K antagonist therapy who have atrial fibrillation if: • the person prefers this form of testing and • the person or their carer is both physically and cognitively able to self-monitor effectively. [Adapted from NICE's HealthTech guidance on atrial fibrillation and heart valve disease: self-monitoring coagulation status using point-of-care coagulometers (the CoaguChek XS system), recommendation 1.1] Support Patients and carers should be trained
