Atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, adults, quality, adults atrial, data, anticoagulation, statement, stroke, nice, source, local, control, vitamin


from NICE's HealthTech guidance on atrial fibrillation and heart valve disease: self-monitoring coagulation status using point-of-care coagulometers (the CoaguChek XS system), recommendation 1.1] Support Patients and carers should be trained in the effective use of the CoaguChek XS system and clinicians involved in their care should regularly review their ability to self-monitor. Equipment for self-monitoring should be regularly checked using reliable quality-control procedures, and by testing patients' equipment against a healthcare professional's coagulometer which is checked in line with an external quality assurance scheme. Ensure accurate patient records are kept and shared appropriately. [NICE's HealthTech guidance on atrial fibrillation and heart valve disease: self-monitoring coagulation status using point- of-care coagulometers (the CoaguChek XS system), recommendations 1.3 and 1.4] Equality and diversity considerations For adults with atrial fibrillation who may have difficulty with or who are unable to self-monitor, such as people with disabilities, the possibility of their carers helping with self-monitoring should be considered. Coagulometers currently come at a cost to the adult with atrial fibrillation, so reasonable adjustments should be made for the socioeconomic status of the adult. Update information February 2018: The source guidance and definitions for statement 6 have been updated to ensure alignment with the updated NICE diagnostics guidance on self-monitoring coagulation status using point-of-care coagulometers (the CoaguChek XS system). In statement 3, the rationale and definition sections have been changed to include edoxaban as an option for anticoagulation to reflect NICE technology appraisal guidance on edoxaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Minor changes since publication December 2025: Links have been updated throughout to NICE's HealthTech guidance 353, which replaces NICE's diagnostics guidance on self-monitoring coagulation status using point-of-care coagulometers. June 2021: Further information was added to bleeding risk score in the definitions section of statement 1. April 2021: Source guideline recommendation numbers were updated throughout and definitions for statements 1 and 2 were amended in line with the updated NICE guideline on atrial fibrillation. About this quality standard NICE quality standards describe high-priority areas for quality improvement in a defined care or service area. Each standard consists of a prioritised set of specific, concise and measurable statements. NICE quality standards draw on existing NICE or NICE-accredited guidance that provides an underpinning, comprehensive set of recommendations, and are designed to support the measurement of improvement. Expected levels of achievement for quality measures are not specified. Quality standards are intended
