Atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, adults, quality, adults atrial, data, anticoagulation, statement, stroke, nice, source, local, control, vitamin


provides an underpinning, comprehensive set of recommendations, and are designed to support the measurement of improvement. Expected levels of achievement for quality measures are not specified. Quality standards are intended to drive up the quality of care, and so achievement levels of 100% should be aspired to (or 0% if the quality statement states that something should not be done). However, this may not always be appropriate in practice. Taking account of safety, shared decision-making, choice and professional judgement, desired levels of achievement should be defined locally. Information about how NICE quality standards are developed is available from the NICE website. See our webpage on quality standards advisory committees for details of our standing committees. Information about the topic experts invited to join the standing members is available from the webpage for this quality standard. NICE guidance and quality standards apply in England and Wales. Decisions on how they apply in Scotland and Northern Ireland are made by the Scottish government and Northern Ireland Executive. NICE quality standards may include references to organisations or people responsible for commissioning or providing care that may be relevant only to England. Resource impact NICE quality standards should be achievable by local services. The potential resource impact is considered by the quality standards advisory committee, drawing on resource impact work for the source guidance. Organisations are encouraged to use the resource impact products for the NICE guideline on atrial fibrillation to help estimate local costs. Diversity, equality and language During the development of this quality standard, equality issues were considered and equality assessments for this quality standard are available. Any specific issues identified during development of the quality statements are highlighted in each statement. Commissioners and providers should aim to achieve the quality standard in their local context, in light of their duties to have due regard to the need to eliminate unlawful discrimination, advance equality of opportunity and foster good relations. Nothing in this quality standard should be interpreted in a way that would be inconsistent with compliance with those duties.
