Lymphedema
KEYWORDS: lymphedema, lymphatic, limb, soft-tissue, skin, treatment, edema, symptoms, secondary, primary, affected, hypoplasia, secondary lymphedema, patients, include


Lymphedema is edema of a limb due to lymphatic hypoplasia (primary) or to obstruction or disruption (secondary) of lymphatic vessels. Symptoms and signs, when chronic, are brawny, fibrous, nonpitting edema in one or more limbs. Diagnosis is by physical examination. Treatment consists of exercise, pressure gradient dressings, massage, and sometimes surgery. Cure is unusual, but treatment may lessen symptoms, slow progression, and prevent complications. Patients are at risk of cellulitis, lymphangitis, and, rarely, lymphangiosarcoma. (See also Overview of the Lymphatic System.) Etiology of Lymphedema Lymphedema may be Primary: Due to lymphatic hypoplasia Secondary: Due to obstruction or disruption of lymphatic vessels Primary lymphedemas Primary lymphedemas are inherited and account for a small proportion of cases of lymphedema. They vary in phenotype and patient age at presentation but mostly involve the lower extremities (1). Congenital lymphedema appears before age 2 years and is due to lymphatic aplasia or hypoplasia. Milroy disease is an autosomal dominant familial form of congenital lymphedema attributed to vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3 (VEGFR-3) gene mutations and sometimes associated with cholestatic jaundice and edema or diarrhea due to a protein-losing enteropathy caused by intestinal lymphangiectasia (2). Lymphedema praecox appears between ages 2 and 35 years, typically in females at the onset of menses or pregnancy. Meige disease is an autosomal dominant familial form of lymphedema praecox attributed to mutations in a transcription factor gene (FOXC2) that causes extra eyelashes (distichiasis), cleft palate, and edema of legs, arms, and sometimes the face (3). Lymphedema tarda occurs after age 35 years. Familial and sporadic forms exist; the genetic basis of both is unknown. Clinical findings are similar to those of lymphedema praecox but may be less severe. Lymphedema is prominent in some other genetic syndromes, including Turner syndrome Yellow nail syndrome, characterized by pleural effusions and yellow nails Hennekam syndrome, a rare congenital syndrome of intestinal and other lymphangiectases, facial anomalies, and intellectual disability Secondary lymphedema Secondary lymphedema accounts for > 95% of cases. Most common causes are Surgery (especially lymph node dissection, typically for treatment of breast cancer) Radiation therapy (especially axillary or inguinal) Trauma Lymphatic obstruction by a tumor Lymphatic filariasis (present in some tropical and subtropical areas) Mild lymphedema may also result from leakage of lymph into interstitial tissues in patients with chronic venous insufficiency. Symptoms and Signs of Lymphedema Symptoms of lymphedema include aching discomfort and a sensation of heaviness or fullness. The cardinal sign
