Lymphedema
KEYWORDS: lymphedema, lymphatic, limb, soft-tissue, skin, treatment, edema, symptoms, secondary, primary, affected, hypoplasia, secondary lymphedema, patients, include


into interstitial tissues in patients with chronic venous insufficiency. Symptoms and Signs of Lymphedema Symptoms of lymphedema include aching discomfort and a sensation of heaviness or fullness. The cardinal sign is soft-tissue edema, graded in 3 stages: Stage 1: The edema is pitting, and the affected area often returns to normal by morning. Stage 2: The edema is nonpitting, and chronic soft-tissue inflammation causes early fibrosis. Stage 3: The edema is brawny and irreversible, largely because of soft-tissue fibrosis. The swelling is most often unilateral and may worsen when the weather is warm, before menstruation occurs, and after the limb remains for a long time in a dependent position. It can affect any part of the limb (isolated proximal or distal) or the entire extremity; it can restrict range of motion when swelling is periarticular. Disability and emotional distress can be significant, especially when lymphedema results from medical or surgical treatment. Skin changes are common and include hyperkeratosis, hyperpigmentation, verrucae, papillomas, and fungal infections. Rarely, an affected limb becomes extremely large, and the hyperkeratosis is severe, giving the appearance of elephant skin (elephantiasis). This manifestation is more common with filariasis than with other causes of lymphedema. Complications Lymphangitis may develop, most often when bacteria enter through skin cracks between the toes as a result of fungal infections or through cuts to the hand. Lymphangitis is usually streptococcal, causing erysipelas; sometimes it is staphylococcal. The affected limb becomes erythematous (possibly only dark on patients with dark skin) and feels hot; erythematous streaks may extend proximally from the point of entry, and lymphadenopathy may develop. Infrequently, the skin breaks down, which may lead to local infection or cellulitis. Rarely, long-standing lymphedema leads to lymphangiosarcoma (Stewart-Treves syndrome), usually in patients who have had a mastectomy (1) and in patients with filariasis (2). Clinical diagnosis CT or MRI if cause is not apparent Primary lymphedema is usually obvious based on characteristic soft-tissue edema throughout the body and other information from the history and physical examination. Diagnosis of secondary lymphedema is usually obvious from physical examination. Additional tests are indicated when secondary lymphedema is suspected unless the diagnosis and cause are obvious. CT and MRI can identify sites of lymphatic obstruction; radionuclide lymphoscintigraphy can identify lymphatic hypoplasia or sluggish flow. Progression can be monitored by measuring limb circumference, measuring water volume displaced by the submerged limb, or using skin or soft-tissue tonometry (to measure resistance
