Lymphedema
KEYWORDS: lymphedema, lymphatic, limb, soft-tissue, skin, treatment, edema, symptoms, secondary, primary, affected, hypoplasia, secondary lymphedema, patients, include


lymphatic hypoplasia or sluggish flow. Progression can be monitored by measuring limb circumference, measuring water volume displaced by the submerged limb, or using skin or soft-tissue tonometry (to measure resistance to compression); these tests have not been validated. Tests for lymphatic filariasis should be done in tropical and subtropical areas where the infecting microfilariae are present. If lymphedema seems much greater than expected (eg, on the basis of lymph node dissection) or appears after a delay in a female treated for breast cancer, cancer recurrence should be considered. Treatment of Lymphedema Sometimes surgical soft-tissue reduction and reconstruction for primary lymphedema Mobilizing fluid (eg, by elevation and compression, massage, pressure bandages, intermittent pneumatic compression) Treatment of primary lymphedema may include surgical soft-tissue reduction (removal of subcutaneous fat and fibrous tissue) and reconstruction if quality of life is significantly reduced. Treatment of secondary lymphedema involves managing its cause. For lymphedema itself, several interventions to mobilize fluid (complex decongestive therapy) can be used. They include Manual lymphatic drainage, in which the limb is elevated and compressed (“milked”) toward the heart Gradient pressure bandages or sleeves Limb exercises Limb massage, including intermittent pneumatic compression Surgical soft-tissue reduction, lymphatic reanastomoses, and formation of drainage channels are sometimes tried but have not been rigorously studied (1). Preventive measures include avoiding application of heat, vigorous exercise, being sedentary for long periods, and constrictive garments (including blood pressure cuffs) around the affected limb. Skin and 5/7 nail care require meticulous attention; vaccination, phlebotomy, and IV catheterization in the affected limb should be avoided. Pearls & Pitfalls Avoid vaccination, phlebotomy, and IV catheterization in limbs affected by lymphedema. Cellulitis and lymphangitis are treated with beta-lactamase–resistant antibiotics that are effective against gram-positive organisms (eg, dicloxacillin). Prognosis for Lymphedema Cure is unusual once lymphedema occurs. Meticulous treatment and possibly preventive measures can lessen symptoms, slow or halt disease progression, and prevent complications. Key Points Secondary lymphedema (due to obstruction or disruption of lymphatic vessels) is far more common than primary lymphedema (which is due to lymphatic hypoplasia). Elephantiasis (extreme hyperkeratosis of skin in a limb affected by lymphedema) is a severe manifestation of lymphedema usually due to lymphatic filariasis. Cure of lymphedema is unusual, but treatment can decrease symptoms, slow or halt disease progression, and prevent complications.
