Cardiology diagnostic tests and procedures
KEYWORDS: heart, using, used, blood, imaging, services, uses, cookies, cardiac, monitor, cardiology, rate, heart rate, use cookies, use


our services. By using our services, you agree to our use of cookies. 3/5 and others[2] ( Achieving a high enough heart rate at the end of exercise is critical to improving the sensitivity of the test to detect high grade heart artery stenosis. Medical imaging Coronary catheterization Coronary catheterization uses pressure monitoring and blood sampling through a catheter inserted into the heart through blood vessels in the leg to determine the functioning of the heart, and, following injections of radiocontrast dye, uses X-ray fluoroscopy, typically at 30 frames per second, to visualize the position and size of blood within the heart chambers and arteries. Coronary angiography is used to determine the patency and configuration of the coronary artery lumens. Echocardiogram Echocardiography uses ultrasonic waves for continuous heart chamber and blood movement visualization. In recent times, it has become one of the most commonly used tools in diagnosis of heart problems, as it allows non-invasive visualization of the heart and the blood flow through the heart, using a technique known as Doppler. Intravascular ultrasound Intravascular ultrasound, an imaging methodology using specially designed, long, thin, complex manufactured catheters attached to computerized ultrasound equipment to visualize the lumen and the interior wall of blood vessels. Positron emission tomography Positron emission tomography, an imaging methodology for positron emitting radioisotopes. PET enables visual image analysis of multiple different metabolic chemical processes and is thus one of the most flexible imaging technologies. Cardiology uses are growing very slowly due to technical and relative cost difficulties. Most uses are for research, not clinical purposes. Appropriate radioisotopes of elements within chemical compounds of the metabolic pathway being examined are used to make the location of the chemical compounds of interest visible in a PET scanner constructed image. Computed Tomography Angiography Computed Tomography Angiography (CTA), an imaging methodology using a ring-shaped machine with an X-Ray source spinning around the circular path so as to bathe the inner circle with a uniform and known X-Ray density. Cardiology uses are growing with the incredible developments in CT technology. Currently, multidetector CT, specially the 64 detector-CT are allowing to make cardiac studies in just a few seconds (less than 10 seconds, depending on the Cookies help us deliver our services. By using our services, you agree to our use of cookies. 4/5 equipment and protocol used). This images are reconstructed using algorithms and software. Great development and growth will be seen
