ESC Clinical Consensus Statement on Mental Health and Cardiovascular Disease:
KEYWORDS: health, mental, mental health, conditions, health conditions, cvd, help, care, heart, healthcare, cardiovascular, cvd mental, support, team, work


What is a Clinical Consensus Statement? Clinical Consensus Statements are documents created by healthcare professionals and scientists. They offer advice on diagnosis and treatment based on the latest available medical and scientific evidence to help ensure that patients receive the best possible care. They are primarily intended for doctors and medical staff. How will this document help me? This guide is based on the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) Clinical Consensus Statement on Mental Health and Cardiovascular Disease and is designed for patients and their families. It aims to help those affected by cardiovascular disease and/or mental health disorders. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a general term for problems with the heart and blood vessels. It usually means that the heart or blood vessels are not working as well as they should, which can lead to serious health issues like heart attacks, strokes or heart failure. There are several descriptions of the meaning of ‘mental health.’ This guide has chosen to use the explanation given by the World Health Organization: “Mental health is a state of mental well-being that enables people to cope with the stresses of life, realise their abilities, learn well, work well and contribute to their community.” Mental health conditions, such as depression or anxiety, can make it difficult to think, feel or behave normally, leading to distress and problems in daily life, such as at work or in relationships. In severe mental illnesses, such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, the person’s ability to perform daily activities is substantially affected. This guide will show you: • The links between CVD and mental health • The importance of this link for good health • That effective treatment is possible for both conditions, singly or combined Why focus on mental health conditions and cardiovascular disease? There is good evidence that CVD can lead to mental health conditions, such as depression, anxiety or stress, and vice versa. CVD and mental health conditions are often accompanied by feelings such as helplessness, fear and anger, and you may have worries about what the future holds for you and your family. Additionally, people with CVD and mental health conditions can struggle to maintain a healthy lifestyle. Mental health and mental health conditions interact with cardiovascular health and CVD in a multidirectional way: • CVD affects mental health, worsening mental health conditions or causing new conditions • CVD and mental health conditions can interact, worsening
