ESC Clinical Consensus Statement on Mental Health and Cardiovascular Disease:
KEYWORDS: health, mental, mental health, conditions, health conditions, cvd, help, care, heart, healthcare, cardiovascular, cvd mental, support, team, work


cardiovascular health and CVD in a multidirectional way: • CVD affects mental health, worsening mental health conditions or causing new conditions • CVD and mental health conditions can interact, worsening each other • People with mental health conditions are more likely to develop CVD • People with mental health conditions often face unkind or mistaken views from others • People with mental health conditions or severe mental illnesses may not receive the same quality of CVD treatment as people without mental health conditions/illnesses • Positive features of mental health are associated with better cardiovascular health Mental health conditions Cardiovascular disease Mental health Cardiovascular health Positive mental health is linked to better cardiovascular health and vice versa Positive mental health means feeling good about yourself, handling everyday stresses well and enjoying life. It’s about having a sense of purpose, being able to form good relationships, coping with challenges and bouncing back when things go wrong. Positive mental health is linked to better cardiovascular health. Just like physical health, your mental health can be strong and healthy when you take care of it. The Psycho-Cardio team If you have a CVD and/or mental health condition, you can benefit from integrated, person-centred care. The ESC has recommended the creation of Psycho-Cardio teams to improve the care of mental health conditions among people with CVD. Psycho-Cardio teams are composed of multiple specialists (including nurses, doctors, psychologists, psychiatrists) who work together for the best cardiovascular and mental health care for patients. Mental health professionals Cardiovascular The Psycho-Cardio team works Nurses specialists with the patient and their caregivers to provide integrated care Integrated care Other allied Social workers professionals Primary care team It is recommended that the Psycho-Cardio team uses the ACTIVE principles to help improve mental health in cardiovascular care. Implementing person-centred practices involves a stepped care approach, where more treatment is given if your need increases. A Acknowledge: you and your healthcare provider should acknowledge (recognise or admit) that there are strong links between CVD and mental health C Check: your healthcare team (e.g. doctor, nurse, psychologist) should check regularly how you are feeling during your visits for cardiovascular problems Tools: it is important that the right tools (checklists, questionnaires, etc.) are used T to check your mental well-being. If you think that no tool has been used by your healthcare provider to assess your psychological status, then ask them I Implement: let us
