ESC Clinical Consensus Statement on Mental Health and Cardiovascular Disease:
KEYWORDS: health, mental, mental health, conditions, health conditions, cvd, help, care, heart, healthcare, cardiovascular, cvd mental, support, team, work


to check your mental well-being. If you think that no tool has been used by your healthcare provider to assess your psychological status, then ask them I Implement: let us work together to make this happen. Sharing decisions and the stepped care approach are needed to put changes in place V Venture: joint mental and cardiovascular care is often not received. It is key that patients and professionals dare to change the system to make this happen E Evaluate: things can change, but changes need to be evaluated by you and your healthcare team to be sure that mental health care is changing for the better How to work with your Psycho-Cardio team: • Be open about your symptoms and feelings – voice your concerns • Work with the team and inform them about what you need and like – this can ensure a good plan is made for your care • Make notes about how you feel after any treatment changes – this can help pinpoint what works or does not work for you Mental health conditions in people with cardiovascular disease Mental health conditions, such as depression, anxiety and stress, are more common in people with CVD than in the general population. If you have CVD, you may be at greater risk of developing a mental health condition, such as anxiety or depression. Screening for mental health conditions is possible and important Some mental health conditions may be missed when patients with CVD visit the doctor or hospital. The specialist may think that feelings like worry or fear are just a normal reaction to the CVD. These feelings might be normal at first, but if they last for a long time or get stronger, they can cause problems. Screening for mental health conditions is one way to make sure that you get the help that you need. Screening usually means answering a few simple questions to work out how you are feeling and to check if you need a more detailed assessment or support from a specialist clinician. If no one asks you about your feelings or emotions, please talk to your healthcare professional about how you feel. Ask for support to find other sources of help Even if screening turns out to be normal, it is important to know that support is available from other sources. Psychological interventions are types of therapies that work on the mind
