ESC Clinical Consensus Statement on Mental Health and Cardiovascular Disease:
KEYWORDS: health, mental, mental health, conditions, health conditions, cvd, help, care, heart, healthcare, cardiovascular, cvd mental, support, team, work


if screening turns out to be normal, it is important to know that support is available from other sources. Psychological interventions are types of therapies that work on the mind and behaviour: • Cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) is a type of talking therapy that helps you understand and change how you think and act. CBT can help you cope with the negative thoughts and behaviours that contribute to the mental health condition • Psycho-education involves learning about your emotions, thoughts, behaviours and how your brain works. It can help you to better understand yourself and to cope with an illness, your sense of the future and your treatment • Mindfulness-based techniques involve paying attention to the present moment. They can help you focus, calm down and stay grounded Other psychological interventions like relaxation, cognitive techniques and emotional support can have positive effects. Ask your doctor about these if you think they might benefit you. Social prescribing is where healthcare professionals connect patients with non-medical support in their community, for example, gardening, mindfulness or walking groups, to improve overall health and well- being. These may be different depending on where you live. Ask your healthcare professional if you think this type of approach may help you. Lifestyle interventions including regular physical activity, a balanced diet, stress management techniques (e.g. yoga), adequate sleep and positive coping strategies can be very useful to overall good health and well-being if you have a CVD or a mental health condition. Avoiding unhealthy behaviours (such as smoking and excessive alcohol intake) is also important. Sometimes medications may be needed to improve your mental health. Medications are discussed later. Remember that CVD can get better • Not all heart problems are permanent and many can be treated or well controlled • Some heart rhythm issues can be fixed with medication or procedures • Conditions like heart failure are often lifelong but can be managed with long-term care • Regular tests help doctors check your CVD and ensure that treatment is adequate, so keep appointments when they are offered to you • Play a key role in your care: ask questions about your CVD, understand your treatment and take medications as prescribed • Remember that CVD can get better but your mental health may not change in parallel - it is important to keep talking to your healthcare team about your feelings People with mental health conditions and severe
