ESC Clinical Consensus Statement on Mental Health and Cardiovascular Disease:
KEYWORDS: health, mental, mental health, conditions, health conditions, cvd, help, care, heart, healthcare, cardiovascular, cvd mental, support, team, work


but your mental health may not change in parallel - it is important to keep talking to your healthcare team about your feelings People with mental health conditions and severe mental illness If a mental health condition substantially impairs a person’s ability to carry out daily tasks and impacts employment and/or personal and social relationships, it is called a severe mental illness (SMI). SMIs include schizophrenia, bipolar disorder or major depression. Optimal results for most patients with SMI are obtained when treatment, including medications, psychotherapy and other forms of support, are combined, usually for some time. How mental health conditions and SMI can affect your heart If you have an SMI, you may also be at greater risk of heart disease. This can happen because SMI can lead to low energy or motivation, a lack of exercise, smoking, poor diet and increased weight gain. Depending on their severity, mental health conditions can make it harder to stick to healthy habits (e.g. quitting smoking and taking medicines). SMI can also make it difficult to manage at work or cope with family life, which can lead to stressful financial and social difficulties. Some medications, especially for SMI, can increase the risk of heart disease by raising blood sugar and cholesterol, causing weight gain or affecting heart rhythm. Knowing this link helps you and your doctors prevent heart problems early. Managing mental health conditions and SMI helps to protect your heart Good mental health care = better heart health. Taking care of your mental health is one of the best ways to protect your heart. You can achieve this by taking your prescribed treatment and attending regular check- ups. Managing SMI makes it easier to maintain a healthy lifestyle, exercise, eat well and quit smoking. Teamwork between psychiatrists, cardiologists and GPs is key. Ask the Psycho-Cardio team to assist you to maintain a healthy lifestyle. Monitoring and routine checks of blood pressure, blood sugar, cholesterol and body weight can help detect issues early. Risks for heart health Ways to protect your heart (with SMI) Low energy and motivation → harder Stick to your mental health treatment plan to exercise Good mental health makes it easier to stay Difficulty quitting smoking active and follow a heart-healthy lifestyle Poor diet and unhealthy eating habits Develop healthy habits (exercise, diet, quit smoking) Weight gain (from lifestyle or medication) Regular check-ups with your doctors Some psychiatric medications
