ESC Clinical Consensus Statement on Mental Health and Cardiovascular Disease:
KEYWORDS: health, mental, mental health, conditions, health conditions, cvd, help, care, heart, healthcare, cardiovascular, cvd mental, support, team, work


a heart-healthy lifestyle Poor diet and unhealthy eating habits Develop healthy habits (exercise, diet, quit smoking) Weight gain (from lifestyle or medication) Regular check-ups with your doctors Some psychiatric medications may also raise blood sugar and cholesterol or affect Teamwork between psychiatrists, heart rhythm cardiologists and GPs Financial and social difficulties Monitor and manage heart risks Treating heart disease is the same for everyone If you have any mental health conditions and then develop CVD, you have the right to the same high-quality care as anyone else. Common treatments include heart medications and procedures (e.g. stents or pacemakers). Tell your doctors about your mental health history and medications because some heart and mental health drugs can interact and your care team may need to make adjustments. Speak openly with your healthcare providers – they are there to help you manage both mind and body. Check if your medicines are heart friendly The main medication groups used in the treatment of mental health conditions and SMI are shown below. Medication class When used To treat mental health conditions, such as mood disorders, Antidepressants post-traumatic stress disorders or anxiety disorders To stabilise mood in the treatment of bipolar disorder and sometimes, Mood stabilisers major depression To treat psychotic symptoms and stabilise mood in disorders such as Antipsychotics schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, and sometimes, major depression Temporarily used to reduce anxiety until antidepressants have started to Anxiolytics/sedatives work. These drugs are often overused (given too often without checking if they are really needed or if they should be stopped) Temporarily used to treat insomnia and sleep disorder when not part of Hypnotics other disorders Sticking to your medication improves your CVD. However, it is important to understand that: • Some antipsychotic medications can affect your heart or metabolism, for example, olanzapine, clozapine and quetiapine may cause weight gain, diabetes and increased cholesterol levels, which all contribute to heart conditions • Some antidepressants may cause blood pressure changes or problems with your heart rhythm. However, newer types of antidepressants are usually safer for the heart • Benzodiazepines (for anxiety/sleep) should be used with caution and temporarily (short term), especially in older adults • Smoking affects how medications work – tell your doctor if you smoke or have recently quit • Don’t stop any medication without advice. Instead, talk to your doctor about alternatives or ways to reduce side effects The importance of carers and
