ESC Clinical Consensus Statement on Mental Health and Cardiovascular Disease:
KEYWORDS: health, mental, mental health, conditions, health conditions, cvd, help, care, heart, healthcare, cardiovascular, cvd mental, support, team, work


If you feel that your mental health is suffering, talk to a healthcare professional. Looking after your mental health can help you care better for your loved one. Talking to your healthcare professional You should feel comfortable talking to your doctor or nurse about your worries – not just about the person you care for but about yourself too. Healthcare professionals have tools to help carers. They can: • Give advice on managing stress • Help you find support groups or counselling • Sometimes provide information about medical, financial or social help Other sources of help You are not alone. There are many places and people who can help you: • Support groups – meeting others in similar situations can make you feel less alone and provide strategies to help you cope • Charities – many charities offer advice, support and financial guidance • Community or religious groups – these groups can provide friendship and practical help • Counselling services – talking to a counsellor can help you manage stress and emotions Ask your healthcare professional for a list of local resources or look online for groups in your area. Healthcare professionals should: Listen – informal caregivers must be heard as they are an invaluable source of information and often experience much distress Reassure – caregivers should be reassured that they are not alone and that their emotional responses are both valid and important i Assist – caregivers need assistance to acquire new knowledge, organise information, follow management instructions and implement lifestyle changes Encourage – caregivers should be encouraged to access relevant medical and social support, both for the patient and for themselves Refer – caregivers should be referred to relevant services to support their health and social needs Conclusions CVD and mental health conditions are common – they can also increase the risks or worsen each other. It is important that your healthcare professional assesses both your mental health and cardiovascular health status to see if you need help. If they do not ask about your emotions, prompt them or talk to them about your feelings. Integrated care – different professionals in the Psycho-Cardio team working together with you – is the best way for managing CVD and mental health conditions, with care stepped up or down as needed. The ACTIVE principles can help the Psycho-Cardio team deliver effective integrated care. Not all mental health conditions or heart conditions
