Chapter 36: Mortality Trends in Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, mortality, death, risk, individuals, study, national, individuals diabetes, disease, data, cvd, rates, trends, glucose, cardiovascular


36–1 CHAPTER 36 MORTALITY TRENDS IN TYPE 2 DIABETES Klara J. Rosenquist, MD, and Caroline S. Fox, MD, MPH Dr. Klara J. Rosenquist is the Associate Medical Director of Quality, Safety and Population Health Management at North Shore Physicians Group in Peabody, MA. Dr. Caroline S. Fox is the Director of Metabolic Research at the Framingham Heart Study and the Associate Director at the Center for Population Studies in Framingham, MA. She is also a senior investigator at the Laboratory for Metabolic and Population Health of National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and an Associate Clinical Professor of Medicine at the Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. Received in final form August 19, 2014. SUMMARY The overall population in the United States has experienced a marked decline in both all-cause mortality and cardiovascular-related mortality over the last several decades, including a decline in mortality of individuals with diabetes. However, in association with the obesity epidemic, the prevalence and incidence of type 2 diabetes continue to increase. Despite improvements in primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD), diabetes is an increasingly important risk factor for CVD, and individuals with diabetes as compared to those without diabetes continue to have an increased risk of both all-cause and cardiovascular mortality. The evaluation of long-term trends in mortality rates of diabetes is particularly challenging. The changing definition of diabetes over the last several decades makes the proportion of diabetes deaths hard to interpret. In addition, death certificate data regarding diabetes are often incomplete and likely underestimate the association of diabetes and mortality. Diabetes is the seventh leading cause of death in the United States, and individuals with diabetes have a twofold to threefold increased risk of mortality compared to individuals without diabetes. Individuals with diabetes have a decreased life expectancy by up to 8 years compared to contemporary individuals without diabetes. This decrease is due in part to an increased risk of CVD and an increasing attributable risk of cardiovascular mortality associated with diabetes. The most common nonvascular causes of death from diabetes include cancer, renal disease, liver disease, and pneumonia. Individuals with diabetes have increased all-cause mortality even after adjusting for baseline characteristics, including age, sex, smoking status, and body mass index. Control of cardiovascular risk factors has improved over the last several decades in the general population, as well as in individuals with diabetes. However, many individuals
