Chapter 36: Mortality Trends in Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, mortality, death, risk, individuals, study, national, individuals diabetes, disease, data, cvd, rates, trends, glucose, cardiovascular


and body mass index. Control of cardiovascular risk factors has improved over the last several decades in the general population, as well as in individuals with diabetes. However, many individuals with diabetes remain suboptimally controlled based on current standards. Cardiovascular risk factor control has contributed to a decrease in national mortality rates over time, but both women and men with diabetes remain at higher risk of all-cause and cardiovascular mortality than those without diabetes. The above trends highlight several important points. First, the prevalence and incidence of diabetes continue to increase. Second, despite improvements in cardiovascular risk factor treatment, individuals with diabetes are not optimally controlled. Further, the propor­ tion of CVD due to diabetes has increased over time, emphasizing the impact of increasing diabetes incidence on the burden of CVD. Finally, these findings point to the importance of aggressive diabetes and cardiovascular risk factor management to help decrease diabetes morbidity and mortality. INTRODUCTION Rising rates of obesity have led to signif­ icant increases in the prevalence and incidence of type 2 diabetes (1,2). The presence of diabetes nearly doubles the risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD) (3), and emerging evidence suggests that diabetes is associated with other potentially fatal conditions, including cancer and life-threat ening infections (4). While overall mortality has declined markedly in the United States, individuals with diabetes have a twofold to threefold increase in all-cause mortality compared to individuals without diabetes, a disparity that has remained relatively stable over time (5,6). In addition, there are disparities among ethnic populations in the United States. Both individuals with and without diabetes have experienced an overall decrease in CVD, but the magnitude of the gap between the two groups has remained unchanged, and an increased CVD burden remains among individuals with diabetes (7). In addition, while overall CVD morbidity and mortality has declined in the United States since the 1950s (6,8), the attributable risk of CVD due to diabetes has increased (9). This chapter explores these trends in further detail, while discussing the chal­ lenges of accurately determining diabetes mortality. The focus of this chapter is on type 2 diabetes, but some of the methods used for data ascertainment cannot distin­ guish between type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Additional information that is specific for type 1 diabetes is provided in Chapter 35 Mortality in Type 1 Diabetes. 36–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition METHODOLOGICAL CHALLENGES IN ASSESSING DIABETES MORTALITY
