Chapter 36: Mortality Trends in Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, mortality, death, risk, individuals, study, national, individuals diabetes, disease, data, cvd, rates, trends, glucose, cardiovascular


information that is specific for type 1 diabetes is provided in Chapter 35 Mortality in Type 1 Diabetes. 36–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition METHODOLOGICAL CHALLENGES IN ASSESSING DIABETES MORTALITY Several challenges arise in the assessment of diabetes mortality. The first is the shifting definition of diabetes over the last several decades with the prevalence of diabetes varying with changes in the diagnostic criteria. For example, the threshold for diagnosing diabetes has been lowered over time in order to expand the diagnosis and capture earlier, less severe disease (10). Another challenge is the ascertainment of mortality. Many national studies use death certificate data to obtain mortality rates and are limited by the accuracy and completeness of the documents (11). In addition, the design and methodology of cohort and other observational studies vary widely. Understanding how changing definitions and collection strategies impact the research findings on this topic is important. These issues are discussed in greater detail in the following sections. DEFINITION OF DIABETES The American Diabetes Association (ADA) has made recommendations for a change in the diagnostic criteria of diabetes twice since the original diagnostic criteria were established in 1979 (Table 36.1) (12,13,14). In 1997, the criteria were changed from a fasting plasma glucose ≥140 mg/dL (≥7.77 mmol/L) to ≥126 mg/dL (≥6.99 mmol/L) based on recommendations from the Expert Committee on the Diagnosis and Classification of Diabetes Mellitus (13) in an attempt to account for glycemic thresholds that were associated with long-term complications of diabetes. The criteria for oral glucose tolerance testing (75 g, 2-hour plasma glucose >200 mg/dL [>11.10 mmol/L]) remained the same. Using National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) data from 1988–1994 to calculate the change in prevalence of diabetes under the two criteria, the new definition captured approximately 13.4 million individuals with diabetes compared to 11.7 million individuals with diabetes when the old definition was applied (15). In 2009, a second change was made when an international expert committee appointed by the ADA recommended the addition of glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) ≥6.5% (≥48 mmol/mol) to the diagnostic criteria of diabetes as an alternative to fasting plasma glucose measures or oral glucose tolerance testing (14). The new definition of diabetes relies on either fasting plasma glucose ≥126 mg/dL, a 75 g oral glucose tolerance test, 2-hour plasma glucose >200 mg/dL, or A1c ≥6.5% (14). Advantages of using an A1c measurement include the convenience of measurement on a nonfasting
