Chapter 36: Mortality Trends in Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, mortality, death, risk, individuals, study, national, individuals diabetes, disease, data, cvd, rates, trends, glucose, cardiovascular


a 75 g oral glucose tolerance test, 2-hour plasma glucose >200 mg/dL, or A1c ≥6.5% (14). Advantages of using an A1c measurement include the convenience of measurement on a nonfasting plasma sample and a better index of overall glycemic exposure with less biologic variability (14). In addition, the use of A1c is more consistently correlated with microvascular complications, such as retinopathy, than fasting plasma glucose in observational studies (14,16). The association between A1c and macrovascular complications, such as CVD, has been found to be stronger than fasting plasma glucose in some studies (17), but not others (18,19). While A1c and fasting glucose are highly correlated, the overlap is incomplete. The use of A1c detects a lower prevalence of undiagnosed diabetes and prediabetes compared to fasting plasma glucose and oral glucose tolerance testing (20). These seemingly small changes in diagnostic criteria capture new subsets of individuals and can have an impact on the overall prevalence of diabetes. Interpretation of national trends over time is challenging, as the diagnostic criteria as of 2009 identify more individuals with diabetes and prediabetes than earlier criteria, while overall national mortality rates continue to decrease (21). Given the lack of correspondence between fasting plasma glucose and A1c criteria, different subsets are identified depending on which criteria are used. The changes in the fasting plasma glucose diagnostic criteria led to a trend towards earlier diagnosis of less severe disease (10). However, the introduction of A1c to the diabetes diagnostic criteria had different results. A study using NHANES data showed that A1c detected a 25% lower prevalence of diabetes than either fasting plasma glucose or 2-hour oral glucose tolerance testing (20). When focusing solely on undiagnosed diabetes, the study found that the total prevalence of diabetes that is undiagnosed was 40% less using A1c than any other diagnostic criteria (20). Another study, using data from the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study, also found differences between individuals identified by A1c and those defined by fasting plasma glucose (17). In a population of adults without diabetes, A1c was more strongly associated with risk of diabetes, CVD, and all-cause mortality than fasting plasma glucose (17). While these two nonoverlapping criteria identify different subsets of patients, the diagnostic criteria as of 2009 allow for the use of either A1c or fasting plasma glucose, ultimately TABLE 36.1. Change in Diabetes Definition by the American Diabetes Association Over Time YEAR DIAGNOSTIC CRITERIA RECOMMENDED
