Chapter 36: Mortality Trends in Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, mortality, death, risk, individuals, study, national, individuals diabetes, disease, data, cvd, rates, trends, glucose, cardiovascular


2009 allow for the use of either A1c or fasting plasma glucose, ultimately TABLE 36.1. Change in Diabetes Definition by the American Diabetes Association Over Time YEAR DIAGNOSTIC CRITERIA RECOMMENDED BY (REF.) 1979 § Classic symptoms § FPG ≥140 mg/dL § 75 g OGTT, 2-hour plasma glucose >200 mg/dL The National Diabetes Data Group (12) 1997 § FPG ≥126 mg/dL § 75 g OGTT, 2-hour plasma glucose >200 mg/dL Expert Committee on the Diagnosis and Classification of Diabetes Mellitus (13) 2009 § FPG ≥126 mg/dL § 75 g OGTT, 2-hour plasma glucose >200 mg/dL § A1c ≥6.5% International Expert Committee Report on the Role of the A1C Assay in the Diagnosis of Diabetes (14) A1c, glycosylated hemoglobin; FPG, fasting plasma glucose; OGTT, oral glucose tolerance test. Conversions for glucose and A1c values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. SOURCE: References are listed within the table. Mortality Trends in Type 2 Diabetes 36–3 identifying more individuals with diabetes than either one alone. In addition to diagnostic criteria changes, studies relying on different methods of data ascertainment may identify variable prevalence rates based on the definition used to classify diabetes. Survey methods that rely on self-report classically capture a more advanced and severe disease, and the sensitivity of self-report may vary based on age, sex, knowledge of a disease, and utilization of health care (22). However, a study comparing chronic disease prevalence estimates across the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), and the NHANES found overall similar absolute preva­ lences of diabetes (8.1%–8.7%) among all three national surveys despite different self-report methods and survey questions (23). This study did not attempt to validate prevalence estimates from one survey to the other given that each type of survey has different sampling methods and likely identifies different subgroups, but the finding suggests an overall reliability in capturing secular trends by standardized self-report methods (23). Thus, the changing definition of diabetes and the method of ascertainment may impact prevalence rates of diabetes and need to be considered carefully within the context of other influencing factors in any longitudinal epidemiologic survey of diabetes. Further, changing prevalence rates of diabetes impact the ability to determine diabetes mortality, as prevalence rates change the number of individuals considered at risk. Diabetes mortality rates are also based on multiple factors, including the duration and severity of disease, making the study of
