Chapter 36: Mortality Trends in Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, mortality, death, risk, individuals, study, national, individuals diabetes, disease, data, cvd, rates, trends, glucose, cardiovascular


prevalence rates change the number of individuals considered at risk. Diabetes mortality rates are also based on multiple factors, including the duration and severity of disease, making the study of diabetes mortality trends over time partic­ ularly challenging. MORTALITY ASCERTAINMENT In the United States, mortality data are collected from the U.S. standard death certificate. Both demographic and cause- of-death information are recorded on the death certificate (Figure 36.1). The accuracy of these data is the responsibility of the physician, medical examiner, or coroner filling out the death certifi­ cate. The validity may be compromised by improper completion of the death certificate and individual variability in interpreting causal events or ascertaining a single event in patients with multiple chronic illnesses that individually may contribute to death (11). Several inherent problems in using death certificate data to determine diabetes mortality have been identified. First, while diabetes may be a contributing factor to mortality, it may not be the causal event in many cases. Second, the death certificate does not distinguish between type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Additionally, diabetes is known to be underreported on death certificates; among individuals known to have diabetes, diabetes was not listed in any section of the death certificate in approximately 60% of deaths (24). Finally, the role of diabetes in mortality is often underrecognized by physicians coding death certificates (25), in addition to physician variation in interpreting causal sequences of events and conditions that may have contributed to death (11). Data from the Translating Research into Action for Diabetes (TRIAD) study, a multicenter observational study of diabetes care, showed that diabetes was recorded on only 41% of death certif­ icates of individuals with known diabetes and noted as the underlying cause of death for 13% (26). The study did find a trend suggesting improved reporting of diabetes as the cause of death over time (26), which would contribute to an increased recording of diabetes-related mortality and may mask improvements in national rates of diabetes mortality (26). Taken together, these findings suggest that death certificates continue to underesti­ mate the prevalence of diabetes and that changes in reporting patterns need to be considered when using this source as an estimate of diabetes mortality. EPIDEMIOLOGIC SURVEILLANCE METHODS Epidemiologic surveillance methods offer improvement beyond death certificate identification of cause of death in diabetes, including the ability to compare the risk of mortality among individuals with and without diabetes. Studies
