Chapter 36: Mortality Trends in Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, mortality, death, risk, individuals, study, national, individuals diabetes, disease, data, cvd, rates, trends, glucose, cardiovascular


surveillance methods offer improvement beyond death certificate identification of cause of death in diabetes, including the ability to compare the risk of mortality among individuals with and without diabetes. Studies using these methods capture other mortality- associated risk factors that are not available on death certificates, such as smoking rates, glycemic control, hypertension, lipid control, and other cardiometabolic variables. However, there is variability in the types of epidemiologic methods used to determine diabetes prevalence. The NHANES database is a publicly available resource and the only nationally representative survey that can examine both diagnosed and undiagnosed diabetes through the collection of fasting (and nonfasting) laboratory data. Other publi­ cally available resources, such as the NHIS and the BRFSS, have the advantage of being larger and are also nationally representative; however, these systems rely on self-reporting of diabetes status, which may miss less severe clinical cases, and provide no information regarding undiagnosed diabetes. Data from these self-report sources have demonstrated a steady increase in the prevalence of diabetes over time (27,28), but only data from the NHANES have shown that this increase is accompanied by an increase in undiagnosed diabetes as well (29). The increas­es in both diagnosed and undiagnosed diabetes continue to impact a widening proportion of the U.S. popu­ lation and need to be considered when evaluating national diabetes mortality trends (21). Additional sources of publically available data repositories include the National Vital Statistics Reports to evaluate national mortality trends. These reports capture both demographic and cause-of-death data from national death certificates. National Vital Statistics Reports are best used to determine demographic informa­ tion associated with diabetes mortality and to track national trends over time (30). These reports are inherently limited by death certificate coding, specifically the underreporting of diabetes on death certif­ icates, and one of the biggest challenges 36–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition FIGURE 36.1. U.S. Standard Certificate of Death SOURCE: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Mortality Trends in Type 2 Diabetes 36–5 in using the National Vital Statistics Reports is that it underestimates the true mortality burden of diabetes (24). Cohort studies represent another source of important data to estimate the impact of diabetes on mortality trends. Cohort studies by definition follow a group of study participants over time and typically consist of a well-described cohort with longitudinal data. For example, a major strength of the Framingham Heart Study, a longitudinal cohort study conducted in
