Chapter 36: Mortality Trends in Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, mortality, death, risk, individuals, study, national, individuals diabetes, disease, data, cvd, rates, trends, glucose, cardiovascular


study participants over time and typically consist of a well-described cohort with longitudinal data. For example, a major strength of the Framingham Heart Study, a longitudinal cohort study conducted in Framingham, Massachusetts, is that fasting plasma glucose data have been collected over the course of the study, and as diabetes definitions change, these data can be reevaluated to define diabetes according to the changing diagnostic criteria (6). Further, the Framingham Heart Study does not rely on death certificate data; rather, mortality outcomes are adjudicated by a panel of three physicians after review of additional information, such as hospital admission records, medical records, and family members. Therefore, compared to studies that rely solely on death certificate data, cohort studies are able to determine the cause-specific mortality of individuals with diabetes based on this additional information. Finally, as these studies are longitudinal in nature, they are able to evaluate both disease incidence and prevalence. The main limitation in using cohort studies is that they may not be representative of the national population in terms of sampling. However, relative measures of association may still be generalizable to the national population. In summary, changes in diabetes definition and differences among data sources impair the ability to make inferences about trends in diabetes mortality and to accurately determine the mortality burden of diabetes. However, the use of a variety of data sources provides complementary information that can be used to help estimate the mortality burden of diabetes. MORTALITY OF PERSONS WITH TYPE 2 DIABETES Data from the National Vital Statistics Reports compiled from death certificates indicate that diabetes was the seventh leading cause of death in the United States in 2008, with 70,553 death certif- icates listing diabetes as the underlying cause of death (30). This figure represents nearly 3% of all mortality in that year and a death rate of 23.2 per 100,000 individuals in the general population of the United States (30). These data must be considered in the context of a likely underestimation of the true burden of diabetes-associated mortality, as diabetes may be underrepresented on death certif- icates (26,31). Given the complexities of using death certificate data, national epidemiologic surveys and United States-based cohort studies help to capture trends both on a national level and within certain populations. In order to evaluate the excess all-cause mortality rate among adults with diabetes compared to adults without diabetes, a PubMed literature search was
