Chapter 36: Mortality Trends in Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, mortality, death, risk, individuals, study, national, individuals diabetes, disease, data, cvd, rates, trends, glucose, cardiovascular


the table. Mortality Trends in Type 2 Diabetes 36–7 those without diabetes (6). These findings indicate that while the relative risk for diabetes-associated mortality is higher in women, the number of events for women is lower, and the absolute risk of diabetes-associated mortality is lower than in men (6). The Framingham cohort is a relatively homogenous cohort, and other observational studies have also provided valuable information regarding the associations of demographic variables (Table 36.2). Excess rates of mortality cannot be determined using the National Vital Statistics Reports, as these death certificate surveys cannot be sorted to provide a comparison group of individuals without diabetes. However, this data source can provide valuable information on death rates within individual groups. New analyses for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition, using data from the National Vital Statistics Reports 2008 (for deaths due to diabetes as an underlying cause) and the NHIS 2008 (for estimated rates of diabetes) show similar rates of death among women and men by age per 100 individuals with diabetes (Figure 36.2). For both sexes, these rates increase with increasing age. Figures 36.3 and 36.4 display the overall death rates (based on any mention of diabetes on the death certificates) per 100,000 individuals of the general population by age and sex (Figure 36.3) and by sex and race/ethnicity (Figure 36.4). As evident for those in the ≥65 years age group (Figure 36.3), with increasing age, diabetes becomes a more common cause of death. When stratified by race/ethnicity and adjusted for age, diabetes accounts for more deaths in non-Hispanic black and non-Hispanic American Indian women and men per 100,000 individuals of the general population than in other race/ethnicity groups (Figure 36.4). In the future, the actual national data from population registries, electronic health records, and Medicare claims data will be an important contribution to the study of national trends in diabetes mortality and will help to eliminate some of the inherent biases of the current data sources. FIGURE 36.2. Death Rates Among Persons With Diabetes, by Age and Sex, U.S., 2008 Deaths were determined based on diabetes as the underlying cause of death. SOURCE: National Vital Statistics System 2008 and National Health Interview Survey 2008 FIGURE 36.3. Death Rates From Diabetes, by Age and Sex, U.S., 2008 Deaths were determined based on diabetes as any cause of death. SOURCE: National Vital Statistics System 2008 FIGURE 36.4. Age-Standardized Death Rates From Diabetes, by
