Chapter 36: Mortality Trends in Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, mortality, death, risk, individuals, study, national, individuals diabetes, disease, data, cvd, rates, trends, glucose, cardiovascular


elevated in individuals with diabetes (4). Diabetes was moderately associated with death from cancers of the liver, pancreas, ovary, colorectum, bladder, lung, and breast (Figure 36.6) (4). Diabetes was also associated with nonvascular, noncancer mortality, including death from renal disease, liver disease, nonhepatic digestive diseases, pneumonia and other infectious diseases, mental disorders, intentional self-harm, external causes, nervous system disorders, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (Figure 36.6). While overall mortality in the general population of the United States has decreased (8), vascular and nonvascular diseases remain leading causes of death for individuals with diabetes. FIGURE 36.6. Hazard Ratios for Death From Cancer and From Noncancer, Nonvascular Causes Among Participants With Diabetes as Compared With Those Without Diabetes at Baseline Panel A shows hazard ratios for deaths from cancer, and Panel B shows hazard ratios for deaths from noncancer, nonvascular causes. With the exception of the classifications “site unspecified or other” in Panel A and “other noncancer, nonvascular deaths” in Panel B, causes of death are presented in descending order according to their estimated hazard ratios. All analyses were stratified on the basis of study, sex, and trial group (where applicable) and adjusted for baseline age, smoking status (current smoker vs. any other status), and body-mass index. There was evidence of heterogeneity in hazard ratios among cancer sites and among the noncancer, nonvascular causes of death (P<0.001 for both comparisons). Participants with known preexisting cardiovascular disease at baseline were excluded from all analyses. The sizes of the data markers are proportional to the inverse of the variance of the loge hazard ratios. In Panel A, risk estimates for cancer of the colorectum were broadly similar to those for cancer at subsites (i.e., colon cancer vs. cancer of the rectosigmoid and anus). In Panel B, death from endocrine disorders does not include death coded as being due to diabetes. Other noncancer, nonvascular deaths are those that could not be attributed to a major organ or system. COPD denotes chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Figure legend from authors: These data are from an international meta-analysis of 97 prospective studies repre- senting 820,900 individuals with diabetes and 123,205 deaths in varied geographic locations throughout North America and Europe. SOURCE: Reference 4, copyright © 2011 Massachusetts Medical Society, reprinted with permission 36–10 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition CARDIOVASCULAR RISK FACTORS IN PERSONS WITH DIABETES The preceding sections outline the interplay among diabetes in CVD, the increasing CVD
