The Journal of Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: ppmv-, pigeons, biv, biv biv, apmv-, virus, respiratory, paramyxovirus, analysis, usa, dutch, infection, alveolar, type, usa usa


MAJOR ARTICLE Zoonotic Infection With Pigeon Paramyxovirus Type 1 Linked to Fatal Pneumonia Thijs Kuiken,1 Mya Breitbart,2 Martin Beer,3 Christian Grund,3 Dirk Höper,3 Bernadette van den Hoogen,1 Jean-Louis H. Kerkhoffs,4,a Aloys C. M. Kroes,4 Karyna Rosario,2 Peter van Run,1 Matthias Schwarz,3 Sanela Svraka,5,b Jens Teifke,3 and Marion Koopmans1,5 The characteristics and risk factors of pigeon paramyxovirus type 1 (PPMV-1) infection in humans are poorly known. We performed virological, pathological, and epidemiological analyses of a Dutch case, and compared the results with those of a US case. Both infec- tions occurred in transplant patients under immunosuppressive therapy and caused fatal respiratory failure. Both virus isolates clus- October tered with PPMV-1, which has pigeons and doves as reservoir. Experimentally inoculated pigeons became infected and transmitted the virus to naive pigeons. Both patients were likely infected by contact with infected pigeons or doves. Given the large populations of feral pigeons with PPMV-1 infection in cities, increasing urbanization, and a higher proportion of immunocompromised individ- uals, the risk of severe human PPMV-1 infections may increase. We recommend testing for avian paramyxovirus type 1, including PPMV-1, in respiratory disease cases where common respiratory pathogens cannot be identified. Keywords. communicable diseases, emerging; immunocompromised host; Paramyxoviridae; respiratory distress syndrome, adult; zoonoses. factors in recent decades are probably responsible for the sig- of APMV-1–like virus, determined its phylogenetic relationship nificant increase of emerging infectious diseases, the majority to other APMV-1 strains, and correlated presence of this virus of which are zoonotic . Of particular concern are emerg- with lesions in tissues obtained from the patient at autopsy. We ing respiratory viruses of the families Orthomyxoviridae [2, also examined virulence and excretion pattern of this virus in 3], Coronaviridae , and Paramyxoviridae . The use chickens and domestic pigeons. of novel molecular techniques has made it possible to identify previously unsuspected or unknown viruses . However, it is METHODS important to assess the clinical and public health relevance of Case Description these viruses by determining their origin and establishing their STANDARD A 54-year-old woman with a history of multiple myeloma impact in the human population. received an allogenic bone marrow transplant in September The impetus for the current study was the identification of 2002, following preparation with a nonmyeloablative regimen a virus related to avian paramyxovirus type 1 (APMV-1) from (cyclosporin) and while on antifungal therapy (intravenous a fatal human case of unknown cause in the Netherlands by itraconazole).
