The Journal of Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: ppmv-, pigeons, biv, biv biv, apmv-, virus, respiratory, paramyxovirus, analysis, usa, dutch, infection, alveolar, type, usa usa


regimen a virus related to avian paramyxovirus type 1 (APMV-1) from (cyclosporin) and while on antifungal therapy (intravenous a fatal human case of unknown cause in the Netherlands by itraconazole). She initially did well, but was hospitalized 8 viral metagenomics analysis . APMV-1 is classified in the weeks after transplantation with symptoms of malaise, anorexia, genus Avulavirus, family Paramyxoviridae . Infection with fever, and abdominal complaints (including abdominal pain, APMV-1 is mainly restricted to birds, but occasionally causes diarrhea, and food intolerance). She lived in the country near mild disease—usually transient conjunctivitis—in humans to a city, but was not employed in agriculture, and there was . So far, there is only one case report, from New York State, no evidence of contact with animals in her clinical history. of a person who died with APMV-1 infection . Gastroscopic examination showed no abnormalities. Infiltrative lesions in the thorax were detected by radiological and com- puted tomographic examinations, and there was progressive Received 26 September 2017; editorial decision 11 January 2018; accepted 17 January 2018; swelling of cervical lymph nodes. No pathogens were detected HEL, LLC-MK2, HEp-2, and human rhabdomyosarcoma cells; Wytemaweg 80, 3015 CN Rotterdam, The Netherlands (). bacterial culture on blood agar, chocolate agar, Columbia blood The Journal of Infectious Diseases® 2018;218:1037–44 agar containing colistin and nalidixic acid, and Sabouraud agar; © The Author(s) 2018. Published by Oxford University Press for the Infectious Diseases Society cytological examination for bacteria, fungi, and Pneumocystis DOI: carinii), and a biopsy of the peripheral right lower lung lobe was Pigeon Paramyxovirus–Linked Pneumonia • JID 2018:218 (1 October) • 1037 histologically normal. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) antigen expres- genome, the assembly was used to design primers for genome sion and lymphoproliferation were detected in a biopsy of the walking, PCR assays were performed with these primers, and right jugular lymph node, and a blood sample was positive for products were sequenced. These efforts resulted in the genome EBV DNA by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Reactivation of completion of the Dutch clinical virus isolate. EBV and associated lymphoproliferation were treated success- Phylogenetic Analysis of the Dutch Clinical Virus Isolate fully with rituximab (anti-CD20) and discontinuation of cyclo- Nucleotide sequences were aligned with the Clustal W program running within the BioEdit software package, version 5.0.9 . examination of the small intestine showed no abnormalities, With the nucleotide sequence alignment, the best-fit model of and no pathogens were detected
