The Journal of Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: ppmv-, pigeons, biv, biv biv, apmv-, virus, respiratory, paramyxovirus, analysis, usa, dutch, infection, alveolar, type, usa usa


within the BioEdit software package, version 5.0.9 . examination of the small intestine showed no abnormalities, With the nucleotide sequence alignment, the best-fit model of and no pathogens were detected in fecal samples by bacterial nucleotide substitution was determined by jModelTest . culture. Maximum-likelihood (ML) phylogenetic trees were generated Five weeks after hospitalization, the patient developed high using the GTR+Γ4+I model of nucleotide substitution and the fever and progressive worsening of respiratory signs. Treatment PhyML package version 3.0 . The reliability of all phyloge- with cotrimoxazole was initiated for suspected P. carinii infec- netic groupings was determined through a bootstrap resampling tion, and with prednisone for suspected bronchiolitis obliter- analysis of a 1000 replicates with PhyML. Trees were visualized ans organizing pneumonia or graft-vs-host disease of the lung. through the FigTree program version 1.4. ( Two weeks later, the patient developed respiratory failure. There uk/software/figtree/) and rooted on the APMV-1 with the high- was crepitation over both lung fields and bilateral, progressively est BLAST similarity in GenBank (APMV-1/NL/152608/1993). expanding, blotchy infiltrates in the thorax by radiological ex- amination. Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacteria (Pseudomonas Virological and Pathological Analyses of Biopsies and Autopsy species) were detected by microscopic examination of BAL Specimens fluid, and treatment with ceftazidime and tobramycin was ini- The following tissue biopsies and autopsy tissue specimens tiated. Despite intubation and artificial respiration at increasing had been fixed in 10% neutral-buffered formalin and embed- pressure, respiratory function deteriorated further and circula- ded in paraffin blocks: heart, lung, jugular lymph node, esoph- tory failure developed. Artificial respiration was stopped after agus, thyroid gland, stomach, pancreas, liver, kidney, skin, 3 days, after which the patient died. diaphragm, and muscle. These specimens were used for detec- Autopsy was performed 1 day after death. There were exten- tion of APMV-1 RNA by real-time reverse-transcription PCR sive areas of bronchopneumonia associated with Pseudomonas (RT-PCR), of APMV-1 antigen by immunoperoxidase method, species infection in both lungs by bacterial culture. In addi- and of histological lesions by hematoxylin and eosin stain tion, there was marked diffuse alveolar damage, characterized (Supplementary Methods). by abundant hyaline membranes lining the alveolar septa. The mucosa of the colon ascendens was lined by a hemorrhagic ex- Characterization of Virulence of the Dutch Clinical Virus Isolate for udate, but autolysis was too advanced to confirm or rule out Chickens and Pigeons graft-vs-host disease, and no satisfactory explanation was found Chickens were inoculated intracerebrally with
