The Journal of Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: ppmv-, pigeons, biv, biv biv, apmv-, virus, respiratory, paramyxovirus, analysis, usa, dutch, infection, alveolar, type, usa usa


from pigeons in New York in 2006 (KC013033.1), and cluster- Table 2). The PPMV-1–associated diffuse alveolar damage was ing in sublineage VIb/1 NA1 (data not shown). exacerbated by bronchopneumonia due to Pseudomonas spe- cies infection, probably from intravenous catheterization. The Virological and Pathological Analyses of Biopsies and Autopsy combination of these 2 pulmonary diseases likely explains the Specimens severe respiratory failure leading to the death of this immuno- Real-time RT-PCR analysis revealed the presence of high lev- suppressed patient. els of PPMV-1 RNA in the left and right lung (Table 2). Lower It is rare to diagnose PPMV-1 infection as the cause of se- levels were detected in liver, kidney, and bone marrow, while vere respiratory disease in humans. To our knowledge, the the remaining tissues tested negative. Immunohistochemistry only other known case was reported by the New York State analysis revealed the expression of PPMV-1 antigen, visible as Department of Health in 2007 . It is not clear whether red-brown granular staining, in the same tissues that tested pos- this paucity of reports is because the disease is rare or because itive with real-time RT-PCR (Table 2). The exact localization of APMV-1, including PPMV-1, is not suspected in such cases. We these granules was not clear, although some aggregates of gran- suggest that APMV-1, including PPMV-1, should be included ules appeared to be located in the cytoplasm of degenerate cells in the differential diagnosis of cases of respiratory disease that (Figure 2). PPMV-1 antigen expression was present in the posi- test negative for more common respiratory pathogens. Samples tive control tissue and absent in the isotype control and negative could be tested by various molecular methods, such as a fam- control tissues. ily-wide RT-PCR assay for paramyxoviruses or metagenomics Histopathological examination demonstrated that PPMV-1 approaches . antigen–expressing sections of lung had diffuse alveolar dam- When they became infected with PPMV-1, the Dutch and age, characterized by loss of alveolar epithelium, rare hyper- New York patients were receiving immunosuppressive therapy trophic type II pneumocytes, widened alveolar septa, and fibrin to improve the success of peripheral blood stem cell or bone thrombi in alveolar capillaries (Figure 2). No histological lesions marrow transplantation. There is an increase in the proportion were apparent in other tissues that expressed PPMV-1 antigen, of immunocompromised people in the population . As or in PPMV-1-negative tissues. these immunocompromised people are at high risk of severe Characterization of
