The Journal of Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: ppmv-, pigeons, biv, biv biv, apmv-, virus, respiratory, paramyxovirus, analysis, usa, dutch, infection, alveolar, type, usa usa


in other tissues that expressed PPMV-1 antigen, of immunocompromised people in the population . As or in PPMV-1-negative tissues. these immunocompromised people are at high risk of severe Characterization of hPPMV-1/NL/579/2003 in Chickens and Pigeons disease from other opportunistic infections , they also Based on intracerebral inoculation into 1-day-old chickens, the may be at risk of severe disease from infection with APMV-1, intracerebral pathogenicity index of hPPMV-1/NL/579/2003 including PPMV-1. was 0.164 (Supplementary Table 2). This corresponds with a PPMV-1 appears to target the lower respiratory tract epithe- lentogenic pathotype. In pigeons, all 5 intratracheally inocu- lium in humans. This is based on the demonstration of PPMV-1 lated animals developed a productive infection, with shedding antigen expression in the alveolar epithelium of autopsy lung from the pharynx between 2 and 10 dpi, and from the cloaca samples from both human cases (Figure 2) . The tissue tro- between 7 and 17 dpi (Supplementary Figure 1). Virus was pism of PPMV-1 in these 2 human cases resembles that of other transmitted to 1 of the 2 naive pigeons. None of the pigeons dis- emerging zoonotic respiratory viruses—H5N1 influenza virus played clinical signs at any time point during the 3-week obser- and the severe acute respiratory syndrome and Middle East res- vation period. No gross lesions were observed in any pigeons at piratory syndrome coronaviruses—that also target the lower autopsy at 21 dpi. However, histopathological analysis showed respiratory tract [20, 22–24]. that all 5 intratracheally inoculated pigeons plus the 1 infected There was evidence of extrarespiratory spread of PPMV-1 in naive pigeon had diffuse interstitial nonpurulent nephritis, the Dutch case. This was based on evidence of PPMV-1 infec- which was absent in 2 negative control pigeons from the same tion in liver, kidney, and bone marrow (Table 2). This is con- flock (Supplementary Figure 2). Also, 1 inoculated pigeon sistent with the New York case, where evidence of PPMV-1 had multifocal nonpurulent pancreatitis. Real-time RT-PCR infection in feces and urine also suggested extrarespiratory 1040 • JID 2018:218 (1 October) • Kuiken et al Pigeon Paramyxovirus–Linked Pneumonia • JID 2018:218 (1 October) • 1041 naivA evitatneserpeR dna )3002/975/LN/1-VMPPh( etalosI lacinilC hctuD eht neewteB nietorP noisuF eht fo etiS egavaelC cityloetorP eht dnuorA nosirapmoC )poT no noitisoP( ecneuqeS dicA onimA .1 elbaT segaenilbuS fo noitaitnereffiD rof desU sniartS 1 epyT surivoxymaraP -buS egaenil epyt-oneG a.oN noisseccA niartS F K Q R R G T V
