The Journal of Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: ppmv-, pigeons, biv, biv biv, apmv-, virus, respiratory, paramyxovirus, analysis, usa, dutch, infection, alveolar, type, usa usa


in domestic pigeons (Columba livia domestica) or their wild relatives (rock pigeons, C. livia), and Figure 2. Pulmonary immunohistochemistry and histopathology of the patient other members of the family Columbidae, especially Eurasian with hPPMV-1/NL/579/2003 infection. A, Diffuse alveolar damage, characterized collared doves (Streptopelia decaocto) and European turtle by thickening of alveolar septa, flooding of alveolar lumina, and presence of hya- line membranes (hematoxylin and eosin [H&E] staining; original magnification ×4.) doves (Streptopelia turtur) . The tropism of hPPMV-1/ B, Higher magnification of A, showing single pulmonary alveole, where epithelial NL/579/2003 for the kidney and pancreas of experimentally lining is replaced by hyaline membranes (H&E; original magnification ×40.) C, Avian infected pigeons (Supplementary Figures 2 and 3) matches the paramyxovirus type 1 antigen visible as granular staining in cytoplasm of degen- erate cell, suggestive of alveolar epithelial cell (immunoperoxidase stain for pigeon tissue tropism of PPMV-1 in naturally infected pigeons . paramyxovirus type 1 [PPMV-1]; original magnification ×100.). The low pathogenicity of this isolate in chickens fits with the phenotype of other PPMV-1 strains . The number of feral pigeons—free-living birds that have The clinical histories of the Dutch and New York cases do descended from domestic pigeons—in European and North not readily explain how they became infected. The Dutch pa- American cities increased substantially from the 1940s to the tient lived in a rural area near a city, but was not employed in 1970s as a result of changes in agricultural practices and the agriculture, and there was no evidence of contact with animals rapid human population increase after World War II. Feral pi- (this study). The New York patient was an urban dweller, but geon numbers then stabilized, likely due to reaching the car- it is unknown whether he had pets or was exposed to birds rying capacity of the urban environment. However, population in other settings . Based on phylogenetic analysis of the growth of feral pigeons is still likely to occur in recently colo- viruses, the most probable route of transmission was contact nized cities and at the newly built outskirts of cities . with infected pigeons or doves. PPMV-1 is environmentally First reported in Italy in 1981 , PPMV-1 subsequently stable in bird feces and can be spread by direct contact or by spread across Europe and has become endemic in feral pigeons, windborne dust . with regular spread to wild pigeons and doves . In
