Bookshelf_NBK619575
KEYWORDS: disorder, affected, pathogenic, individuals, growth, variants, related, testing, neurodevelopmental disorder, neurodevelopmental, ndd, genetic, feeding, related neurodevelopmental, developmental


an affected individual has at conception a 25% chance of being affected, a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% chance of being unaffected and not a carrier. Once the TAF8 pathogenic variants have been identified in an affected family member, carrier testing for at-risk relatives and prenatal/preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Diagnosis No consensus clinical diagnostic criteria for TAF8-related neurodevelopmental disorder (TAF8-NDD) have been published. Suggestive Findings TAF8-NDD should be considered in probands with the following clinical and brain MRI findings and family history. Clinical findings • Severe-to-profound developmental delay / intellectual disability with evidence of neurodegeneration AND • Any of the following features presenting in infancy or childhood: ⚬ Infant feeding difficulties ⚬ Poor growth, including short stature for age and sex ⚬ Microcephaly ⚬ Axial hypotonia with spasticity in the arms and legs ⚬ Visual impairment ⚬ Epilepsy Brain MRI findings • Hypomyelination • Enlarged lateral ventricles • Hypoplastic corpus callosum • Progressive cerebral and cerebellar atrophy Family history is consistent with autosomal recessive inheritance (e.g., affected sibs and/or parental consanguinity). Absence of a known family history does not preclude the diagnosis. Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of TAF8-NDD is established in a proband with suggestive findings and biallelic pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variants in TAF8 identified by molecular genetic testing (see Table 1). Note: (1) Per American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics / Association for Molecular Pathology variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely pathogenic variant" are synonymous TAF8-Related Neurodevelopmental Disorder 3 [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this GeneReview is understood to include likely pathogenic variants. (2) Identification of biallelic TAF8 variants of uncertain significance (or of one known TAF8 pathogenic variant and one TAF8 variant of uncertain significance) does not establish or rule out the diagnosis. Molecular genetic testing approaches can include a combination of gene-targeted testing (multigene panel) and comprehensive genomic testing (exome sequencing, genome sequencing). Gene-targeted testing requires that the clinician determine which gene(s) are likely involved (see Option 1), whereas comprehensive genomic testing does not (see Option 2). Note: Single-gene testing (sequence analysis of TAF8, followed by gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis) is rarely useful and typically NOT recommended. Option 1 When the phenotypic and brain imaging findings suggest the diagnosis of TAF8-NDD, the use of a multigene panel may be considered. A multigene panel that includes TAF8 and other genes of interest (see
