Bookshelf_NBK619575
KEYWORDS: disorder, affected, pathogenic, individuals, growth, variants, related, testing, neurodevelopmental disorder, neurodevelopmental, ndd, genetic, feeding, related neurodevelopmental, developmental


and brain imaging findings suggest the diagnosis of TAF8-NDD, the use of a multigene panel may be considered. A multigene panel that includes TAF8 and other genes of interest (see Differential Diagnosis) is likely to identify the genetic cause of the condition while limiting identification of pathogenic variants and variants of uncertain significance in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype-focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/duplication analysis, and/or other non-sequencing-based tests. tests can be found here. Option 2 When the phenotype is indistinguishable from many other inherited disorders characterized by severe intellectual disability, regression, and neurodegeneration, comprehensive genomic testing may be pursued. Comprehensive genomic testing does not require the clinician to determine which gene is likely involved. Exome sequencing is often used; genome sequencing is also possible. To date, the majority of TAF8 pathogenic variants reported (e.g., missense, nonsense, splice sites) are within the coding region and the immediate intron/ exon splice sites and are likely to be identified on exome sequencing. Only four pathogenic variants have been identified to date (see Table 1). ordering genomic testing can be found here. 4 GeneReviews ® Table 1. TAF8-Related Neurodevelopmental Disorder: Molecular Genetic Testing Proportion of Pathogenic Variants 2 Gene 1 Method Identified by Method Sequence analysis 3 4/4 (100%) 4 TAF8 Gene-targeted deletion/duplication None reported to date 6 analysis 5 1. See Table A. Genes and Databases for chromosome locus and protein. 2. See Molecular Genetics for information on variants detected in this gene. 3. Sequence analysis detects variants that are benign, likely benign, of uncertain significance, likely pathogenic, or pathogenic. Variants may include missense, nonsense, and splice site variants and small intragenic deletions/insertions; typically, exon or whole-gene 4. Data derived from El-Saafin et al , Wong et al , and Nadav et al and from the subscription-based professional view of Human Gene Mutation Database [Stenson et al 2020]. Note that only four pathogenic variants have been identified to date, although this accounts for all
