Bookshelf_NBK619575
KEYWORDS: disorder, affected, pathogenic, individuals, growth, variants, related, testing, neurodevelopmental disorder, neurodevelopmental, ndd, genetic, feeding, related neurodevelopmental, developmental


all affected individuals were assessed for every feature. Prenatal manifestations of TAF8-related neurodevelopmental disorder (TAF8-NDD) • Growth. Significant growth restriction was observed in two fetuses from late-terminated pregnancies, while growth in two other affected fetuses fell within the low-normal range. Fetal weight at termination ranged from below the 3rd centile to just below the 14th centile. Microcephaly was noted in three of the four fetuses. • Neuroimaging. Prenatal ultrasound findings included a hypoplastic cerebellum and an enlarged cisterna magna. ⚬ MRI images of affected fetuses may reveal a flat, open sylvian fissure, small frontal lobes, and a dysmorphic corpus callosum that is short and thick. ⚬ Other findings may include an abnormal brain stem with a flat pons, as well as a small, abnormal vermis with an open fastigium and absence of the primary fissure. ⚬ There may also be an abnormal gyral pattern for gestational age. Postnatal manifestations of TAF8-NDD. The clinical features of the reported eight living affected individuals (ranging in age from 2 years 4 months to 18 years at the time of report) from five families are summarized below. • Developmental delay (DD) and intellectual disability (ID). All living affected individuals have severe- to-profound developmental delay and intellectual disabilities. ⚬ Individuals exhibit a lack of motor development characterized by the absence of initial head control and significant axial hypotonia. ⚬ Age at rolling ranged from six months to never achieved, including no ability to roll in an affected individual as old as age 15 years. ⚬ No reported affected individual has achieved the ability to sit independently, ambulate, or use verbal language skills. ⚬ Signs of developmental regression have been noted in two of the eight affected individuals and include loss of basic motor skills. • Tone abnormalities ⚬ Generalized hypotonia with poor control of the neck and trunk is common in early life. ⚬ Axial hypotonia remains an issue even as spasticity develops. 6 GeneReviews ® ⚬ Most of the affected individuals (7/8) experienced progressive spasticity and a decrease in spontaneous movements particularly in the upper and lower limbs; some affected individuals developed contractures. ⚬ Most affected individuals had both epilepsy and spasticity at the time of diagnosis; however, the natural history of the timing of these symptoms in relation to each other is not well documented. • Epilepsy. Affected individuals typically developed epilepsy between the ages of two and five years, initially experiencing short,
