Bookshelf_NBK619575
KEYWORDS: disorder, affected, pathogenic, individuals, growth, variants, related, testing, neurodevelopmental disorder, neurodevelopmental, ndd, genetic, feeding, related neurodevelopmental, developmental


of these symptoms in relation to each other is not well documented. • Epilepsy. Affected individuals typically developed epilepsy between the ages of two and five years, initially experiencing short, generalized seizures. EEG results revealed multifocal epileptic discharges, and treatment with levetiracetam initially provided seizure control. Over time, seizures progressed, including episodes of cyanosis followed by focal clonic seizures in the left lower limb, and later generalized tonic and tonic-clonic seizures. These seizures were not responsive to sodium valproate, and frequent seizures continued to occur despite anticonvulsant therapy. • Growth. After birth, progressive microcephaly (below the 3rd centile on age- and sex-matched growth charts), poor linear growth (below the 3rd centile for length/height on age- and sex-matched growth charts), and poor weight gain (below the 3rd centile on age- and sex-matched growth charts) were reported. Growth measurements are usually significantly below the average range, including head circumference (2 standard deviations [SD] below the mean), height (4-5 SD below the mean), and weight (4-5 SD below the mean). • Gastrointestinal problems. Feeding difficulties are usually present from birth, accompanied by jaundice, hypoxia, and hypoglycemia. While some symptoms may improve over time, the feeding and growth issues are typically persistent. In some affected individuals, severe dysphagia and gastroesophageal reflux disease warrant placement of a feeding tube. Ongoing feeding issues and poor growth continue to be major challenges, with gastroesophageal reflux disease remaining a significant concern in some affected individuals. • Ophthalmologic involvement. Severe visual impairment includes poor visual fixation and focus as well as nystagmus. In at least one reported individual, severe visual impairment with poor fixation and nystagmus was present from birth [Wong et al 2022]; however, it is unclear when vision impairment developed in the other affected individuals documented to date. • Neuroimaging. Postnatal cerebral imaging is nonspecific but has revealed hypomyelination, a hypoplastic corpus callosum, and brain atrophy. Furthermore, repeated imaging showed a progressive cerebral and cerebellar atrophy. Consistently, reduced levels of N-acetylaspartate, a marker of neuronal viability, were observed on magnetic resonance spectroscopy. • Facial features. No recognizable dysmorphic features have been observed. Prognosis. It is unknown whether the life span of individuals with TAF8-NDD is reduced, although this is suspected due to the severity of the condition, including the inability to ambulate and the intractable epilepsy in most known affected individuals. To date, the oldest reported affected individual was age 18 years at the time of the
