Bookshelf_NBK619575
KEYWORDS: disorder, affected, pathogenic, individuals, growth, variants, related, testing, neurodevelopmental disorder, neurodevelopmental, ndd, genetic, feeding, related neurodevelopmental, developmental


evaluations summarized in Table 6 are recommended. Table 6. TAF8-Related Neurodevelopmental Disorder: Recommended Surveillance System/Concern Evaluation Frequency Growth/ • Measurement of growth parameters Feeding • Eval of nutritional status & safety of oral intake Gastrointestinal Monitor for signs/symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease. Respiratory 1 Monitor for evidence of aspiration & respiratory insufficiency. Development Monitor developmental progress & educational needs. Physical medicine & OT/PT assessment of mobility & self-help Musculoskeletal skills At each visit Assess family need for social work support (e.g., palliative/respite care, home nursing, other local resources), care coordination, or Family/Community follow-up genetic counseling if new questions arise (e.g., family planning). Monitor those w/seizures as clinically indicated. Assess for new manifestations such as seizures. changes in tone, & Neurologic regression of skills. 2-3 yrs after initial brain MRI to Consider repeat brain MRI assess for possible brain atrophy Ophthalmologic involvement Ophthalmology eval Per treating clinician OT = occupational therapy; PT = physical therapy 1. Respiratory issues are not known to be a primary feature of this condition but may be secondary to decreased ambulatory ability and severe epilepsy. 12 GeneReviews ® Evaluation of Relatives at Risk See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Therapies Under Investigation Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not be clinical trials for this disorder. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance TAF8-related neurodevelopmental disorder (TAF8-NDD) is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • The parents of an affected child are presumed to be heterozygous for a TAF8 pathogenic variant. • Molecular genetic testing is recommended for the parents of a proband to confirm that both parents are heterozygous for a TAF8 pathogenic variant and to allow reliable recurrence risk assessment. • If a pathogenic
