Bookshelf_NBK619575
KEYWORDS: disorder, affected, pathogenic, individuals, growth, variants, related, testing, neurodevelopmental disorder, neurodevelopmental, ndd, genetic, feeding, related neurodevelopmental, developmental


recommended for the parents of a proband to confirm that both parents are heterozygous for a TAF8 pathogenic variant and to allow reliable recurrence risk assessment. • If a pathogenic variant is detected in only one parent and parental identity testing has confirmed biological maternity and paternity, it is possible that one of the pathogenic variants identified in the proband occurred as a de novo event in the proband or as a postzygotic de novo event in a mosaic parent [Jónsson et al 2017]. If the proband appears to have homozygous pathogenic variants (i.e., the same two pathogenic variants), additional possibilities to consider include: ⚬ A single- or multiexon deletion in the proband that was not detected by sequence analysis and that resulted in the artifactual appearance of homozygosity; ⚬ Uniparental isodisomy for the parental chromosome with the pathogenic variant that resulted in homozygosity for the pathogenic variant in the proband. • Heterozygotes (carriers) are asymptomatic and are not at risk of developing the disorder. Sibs of a proband • If both parents are known to be heterozygous for a TAF8 pathogenic variant, each sib of an affected individual has at conception a 25% chance of being affected, a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% chance of being unaffected and not a carrier. • Heterozygotes (carriers) are asymptomatic and are not at risk of developing the disorder. Offspring of a proband. To date, individuals with TAF8-NDD are not known to reproduce. Other family members. Each sib of the proband's parents is at a 50% risk of being a carrier of a TAF8 pathogenic variant. TAF8-Related Neurodevelopmental Disorder 13 Carrier Detection Carrier testing for at-risk relatives requires prior identification of the TAF8 pathogenic variants in the family. Related Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to young adults who are carriers or are at risk of being carriers. • It is appropriate to offer TAF8 molecular genetic testing to the reproductive partners of individuals known to be heterozygous for a TAF8 pathogenic variant, particularly if consanguinity is likely. Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Once the TAF8 pathogenic variants have been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and
