Bookshelf_NBK619575
KEYWORDS: disorder, affected, pathogenic, individuals, growth, variants, related, testing, neurodevelopmental disorder, neurodevelopmental, ndd, genetic, feeding, related neurodevelopmental, developmental


a TAF8 pathogenic variant, particularly if consanguinity is likely. Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Once the TAF8 pathogenic variants have been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Differences in perspective may exist among medical professionals and within families regarding the use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing. While most health care professionals would consider use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing to be a personal decision, discussion of these issues may be helpful. Resources GeneReviews staff has selected the following disease-specific and/or umbrella support organizations and/or registries for the benefit of individuals with this disorder and their families. GeneReviews is not responsible for the No specific resources for TAF8-Related Neurodevelopmental Disorder have been identified by GeneReviews staff. Molecular Genetics Information in the Molecular Genetics and OMIM tables may differ from that elsewhere in the GeneReview: tables may contain more recent information. —ED. Table A. TAF8-Related Neurodevelopmental Disorder: Genes and Databases Gene Chromosome Locus Protein HGMD ClinVar TAF8 6p21.1 Transcription initiation factor TAF8 TAF8 TFIID subunit 8 Data are compiled from the following standard references: gene from HGNC; chromosome locus from OMIM; protein from UniProt. Table B. OMIM Entries for TAF8-Related Neurodevelopmental Disorder (View All in OMIM) 609514 TATA BOX-BINDING PROTEIN-ASSOCIATED FACTOR 8; TAF8 619972 NEURODEVELOPMENTAL DISORDER WITH SEVERE MOTOR IMPAIRMENT, ABSENT LANGUAGE, CEREBRAL HYPOMYELINATION, AND BRAIN ATROPHY; NEDMLHB Molecular Pathogenesis TAF8 encodes transcription initiation factor TFIID subunit 8 (TAF8), which is an integral component of the transcription factor IID (TFIID) complex. TAF8 is essential for regulating gene expression during the 14 GeneReviews ® development of the central nervous system and plays a crucial role in the survival of neurons in the developing brain. As part of TFIID, TAF8 is vital for normal fetal brain development and overall fetal growth. Studies suggest that the absence of TAF8 can disrupt both the transcriptome and proteome, leading to abnormal neuronal development and premature neuronal cell death or apoptosis [El-Saafin et al 2018, Nadav et al 2025]. Mechanism of disease causation. Loss of function Table 7. TAF8 Pathogenic Variants Referenced in This GeneReview Reference Sequences DNA Nucleotide Change Predicted Protein Change Comment [Reference] Homozygous splicing variant identified in a large extended consanguineous pedigree w/fetal brain NM_138572.3 c.45+5G>A -- malformations; has a carrier rate of 1/33 in pedigree's village in the Middle East, suggesting a founder effect [Nadav et al 2025]. 1 Variants listed in the table
