www.kjurology.org
KEYWORDS: chronic, prostatitis, pain, patients, urol, cpps, pelvic, syndrome, treatment, chronic prostatitis, pelvic pain, symptoms, chronic pelvic, pain syndrome, therapy


types of CP, chronic bacterial Prostatitis accounts for 25% of all visits to urologists, and prostatitis (CBP) is rare, accounting for only 5% of such pa- up to 15 to 25% of visits to urology clinics in Korea . Men tients . More than 90% of cases of CP are not associated diagnosed with CP experience impairment in both mental with a significant bacteriuria, a condition referred to as and physical domains of health-related quality of life as chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CPPS). Cases of CPPS are measured through validated questionnaires . The wide further subdivided by the presence of inflammation in the scope of recommended treatments for CP indicates both the extraprostatic secretions or semen (category IIIa) or the ab- general uncertainty surrounding the root causes of the con- sence of it (category IIIb). Many hypotheses have been sug- dition and how to appropriately diagnose and treat it. gested for the etiology of CPPS, including infection, in- Unlike benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and prostate flammation, uric acid level, autoimmunity, and neuro- cancer, which are predominantly diseases of older men, muscular spasm. Therapies aimed at these specific etiol- prostatitis affects men of all ages, especially the middle age ogies have met with varied success, a result that may reflect group. Although category I prostatitis (acute bacterial the multifactorial nature of the syndrome. This review pro- prostatitis) is relatively straightforward to diagnose by ob- vides an overview of the current appropriate practice for Korean Journal of Urology ⒸThe Korean Urological Association, 2012 69 Korean J Urol 2012;53:69-77 70 Lee and Choi treating men diagnosed with CP. tioners (63%) and primary care physicians (78%) in Wis- consin tended to implicate bacterial infection as the most DEGREE OF CONFUSION AND FRUSTRATION important cause . Recently, molecular biological re- FOR CP/CPPS search has created exciting new possibilities for discover- ing the root causes of this enigmatic disease. Some evidence CP is a condition generally acknowledged to be associated suggests that hidden bacterial infection of the prostate is with great confusion and frustration for patients and treat- a possible etiology . In Korea, about half (52%) of partic- ing physicians alike. In Canada, physicians reported expe- ipating urologists pointed to hidden bacterial infection as riencing significantly more frustration in treating prosta- the etiology of chronic abacterial prostatitis . This re- titis than they did in treating patients with BPH and pros- sult demonstrates that Korean
