www.kjurology.org
KEYWORDS: chronic, prostatitis, pain, patients, urol, cpps, pelvic, syndrome, treatment, chronic prostatitis, pelvic pain, symptoms, chronic pelvic, pain syndrome, therapy


significantly more frustration in treating prosta- the etiology of chronic abacterial prostatitis . This re- titis than they did in treating patients with BPH and pros- sult demonstrates that Korean urologists regard bacterial tate cancer and they perceived that prostatitis affected pa- infection as an important cause of CP. Psychological factors tients’ quality of life more significantly than did BPH and may also be important in the etiology of CP, and patients almost as significantly as prostate cancer . The degree may benefit from psychotherapy and behavioral support of frustration for physicians in dealing with prostatitis has . In the Netherlands, about 40% of general practi- been driven primarily by a lack of confidence and comfort tioners and 65% of urologists envisaged a psychosomatic in their ability to accurately diagnose and subsequently ra- component to this syndrome . Similarly, 40.8% of Chin- tionalize treatment. In Japan, more than half of urologists ese urologists considered psychosomatic factors as a cause (52.2%; 384/735) felt pessimistic about treating patients of CP . Established diagnostic tests for patients diag- with CP/CPPS . The reasons for this included incon- nosed with CP are typically unrewarding and successful sistent reporting of symptoms by patients (78.1%; 300/ therapeutic treatment is difficult . This situation may 384), lack of confidence in the treatment (60.4%; 232/384), lead to the belief of physicians that a psychosomatic compo- and lack of confidence in their diagnosis (32%; 123/384). nent exists in many patients. These studies support the common frustration experi- There is evidence to suggest that CP/CPPS is initiated enced by physicians in diagnosing and treating this by inflammation provoked by an initiator stimulus within disease. The prime causes of the difficulty may be the poorly the prostate gland, which in susceptible individuals results characterized etiology of CP, the absence of definitive diag- in peripheral nervous system sensitization in the prostate nostic tests, and the absence of effective therapies, the sum and surrounding areas . This condition may result in of which result in physicians feeling pessimistic and lack- neuropathic pain with allodynia and hyperalgesia and may ing confidence in their diagnosis and treatment strategy explain the adequacy of treatments directed at prostatic in- . flammation in men with long-standing symptoms . However, the initiator stimuli have not yet been precisely ETIOLOGY AND PATHOGENESIS defined, and it is likely that more than one factor triggers CP/CPPS . 1. Chronic bacterial prostatitis It
