www.kjurology.org
KEYWORDS: chronic, prostatitis, pain, patients, urol, cpps, pelvic, syndrome, treatment, chronic prostatitis, pelvic pain, symptoms, chronic pelvic, pain syndrome, therapy


However, the initiator stimuli have not yet been precisely ETIOLOGY AND PATHOGENESIS defined, and it is likely that more than one factor triggers CP/CPPS . 1. Chronic bacterial prostatitis It has been proposed that intraprostatic reflux of urine Of patients diagnosed with prostatitis syndrome, 5 to 10% (especially urate) results in chemical injury to the epi- are suffering from chronic bacterial prostatitis CBP . thelium that initiates an immunologic reaction, a possible This condition is often triggered by an infection of the uri- starting point for chronic inflammation . Neverthe- nary tract. The pathogen spectrum includes that of com- less, this hypothesis has not been followed up with con- plex urinary tract infections, with gram-negative and clusive studies and therapeutic achievements. In chronic gram-positive bacteria, although the latter often occur only fibromyalgia, extensive recent researches has provided transiently. Animal experiments have shown that chronic evidence of a lowered pain threshold determined by the in- infection leads to the formation of a biofilm in the prostatic dividual’s genetic characteristics . Those predispo- acini, leading to pathogens forming colonies with enhanced sed patients may have the condition ‘triggered’ by ‘stre- growth conditions . ssors’ such as infection, physical trauma, or severe psycho- logical trauma . These abnormalities may be present 2. CP and CPPS at several levels of pain: processing systems as well as psy- Uncertainty exists in the etiology of the majority of CP cas- chological pathways, both domains being influenced by es and the etiology of CP syndromes is controversial, partic- specific genetic variants . The possibility of impair- ularly when positive cultures for established uropathogens ment of anti-nociceptive pathways due to deficiencies in are lacking. It is evident from a previous study that in- the serotonergic/noradrenergic pathways, such as those fectious causes are detected in only 8% of patients; the ma- present in chronic fibromyalgia, is a consideration that jority of cases appear to suffer from either nonbacterial warrants exploration, as it would have immediate ther- prostatitis or prostatodynia (NIH category III: CP/CPPS) apeutic implications for successfully treating CP/CPPS . This is likely a reason that urologists in the Nether- . The existence of an altered autonomic nervous system lands (40%), Wisconsin (59%), and China (64.6%) consider response in men with CP/CPPS has also recently been re- nonbacterial factors to be most important in the etiology ported . of the syndrome [10-12]. However, Dutch general practi- Korean J Urol
