www.kjurology.org
KEYWORDS: chronic, prostatitis, pain, patients, urol, cpps, pelvic, syndrome, treatment, chronic prostatitis, pelvic pain, symptoms, chronic pelvic, pain syndrome, therapy


men with CP/CPPS has also recently been re- nonbacterial factors to be most important in the etiology ported . of the syndrome [10-12]. However, Dutch general practi- Korean J Urol 2012;53:69-77 Chronic Prostatitis: Approaches for Best Management 71 DIAGNOSIS oratories, Nickel et al. conducted a study to evaluate a simpler screening test, the two-glass test. They compared There is no gold standard for diagnostic testing for it with the four-glass test for the initial evaluation of men CP/CPPS . A history of chronic pelvic pain in a man with a clinical diagnosis of CP/CPPS. The two-glass test without documented infections supports the diagnosis of showed strong concordance with the four-glass test and is CP/CPPS. A history of recurrent or a recent urinary tract suggested to be a reasonable alternative when extrapro- infection should raise suspicion for the existence of CBP. static secretions are not obtained. The four-glass or The evaluation of a patient presenting with symptoms of two-glass test and the ejaculate test can be used to dis- prostatitis must begin with a thorough medical history and tinguish between inflammatory and noninflammatory physical examination. A complete inventory of other medi- forms of the condition . Unfortunately, the results of the cal problems should be obtained to include any neurologic two- or four-glass tests are often neither diagnostic for pros- disorders. tatitis nor useful in directing treatments. Recent reports suggest that there may be little correlation between pyuria 1. Recommended evaluation and symptom manifestations . A diagnostic algorithm Standardized questionnaires may be useful in the evalua- that provides a practical approach to the workup of the ma- tion of prostatitis and have been classified as recommended jority of men presenting with CP/CPPS is shown in Fig. 1. diagnostic tools. Many patients present a constellation of symptoms that may be difficult to assess objectively. 2. Optional evaluation Therefore, through literature review, peer groups, expert The complex conditions surrounding CP/CPPS often re- opinions, and patient testing, a symptom assessment ques- quire multiple diagnostic studies to guide practitioners to- tionnaire was developed by the NIH . The NIH chronic ward therapeutic options. A urethral swab can be per- prostatitis symptom index (NIH-CPSI) consists of nine formed for patients presenting with dysuria or localized parts that outline three major areas of prostatitis: pain, uri- pain to the urethra or penis or patients with a history of sex- nary symptoms, and quality of life . Scores
