www.kjurology.org
KEYWORDS: chronic, prostatitis, pain, patients, urol, cpps, pelvic, syndrome, treatment, chronic prostatitis, pelvic pain, symptoms, chronic pelvic, pain syndrome, therapy


that outline three major areas of prostatitis: pain, uri- pain to the urethra or penis or patients with a history of sex- nary symptoms, and quality of life . Scores can be calcu- ually transmitted diseases or unprotected intercourse . lated on a summative scale or can be used independently Urodynamics offers valuable information on patients with to individually evaluate the three target areas. The symp- predominantly voiding symptoms. It can be used to supple- tom index is useful to longitudinally follow the patient in ment the office evaluations of uroflow and postvoid re- order to monitor changes in a standardized fashion . sidual urine. Urodynamics or videourodynamics help to de- However, this index has limitations in use as the sole diag- tect any prostatic obstruction, primary bladder neck ob- nostic tool. Recent data have indicated that the NIH-CPSI struction, and detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia. These con- is more useful in evaluating the severity of a patient’s cur- ditions, which are accompanied by numerous effective rent symptoms after a diagnosis has been established than treatment options as compared with prostatitis, may con- in assessing the presence or absence of prostatitis . tribute to or cause the pelvic pain and lower urinary tract Nonetheless, the NIH-CPSI remains an important tool for symptoms experienced by the patient . In 1994, Kaplan clinicians and researchers. Depression and psychosocial et al. reported a series of 34 patients with refractory symptoms are concentrated in patients with CP/CPPS and CP who underwent urodynamic evaluation. Evidence of must be addressed in tandem with physical symptoms . bladder outlet obstruction at the vesical neck was observed trained in psychosomatic medicine is helpful. Laboratory showed significant improvement of symptoms after tran- and simple office tests can provide useful information when surethral incision of the bladder neck. Furthermore, in a evaluating the patient with symptoms of prostatitis. second series, patients diagnosed with CP were found to Several additional tests are recommended by the NIH con- have detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia . Cystoscopy is sensus panel in the evaluation. A postvoid residual urine also being used as an additional method of evaluation of measurement provides useful information to determine CP/CPPS patients or as an adjunct to urodynamics. whether a patient has incomplete bladder emptying. Cystoscopy should be performed in any patient with a his- Urinary retention can be a causative factor in recurrent tory of hematuria or abnormal cytology. Patients with irri- urinary tract infections
