www.kjurology.org
KEYWORDS: chronic, prostatitis, pain, patients, urol, cpps, pelvic, syndrome, treatment, chronic prostatitis, pelvic pain, symptoms, chronic pelvic, pain syndrome, therapy


should be performed in any patient with a his- Urinary retention can be a causative factor in recurrent tory of hematuria or abnormal cytology. Patients with irri- urinary tract infections and storage symptoms. Urine flow tative or obstructive symptoms may warrant cystoscopy, rates provide insight into a patient’s overall voiding status. because malignancy can act as a causative agent for that Low maximum flow rates suggest bladder outlet obstruc- symptomatology . tion or decreased detrusor contractility. Urine cytology is a simple test that can provide insight into possible ur- 3. Semen culture othelial malignancy, which can cause irritative or ob- The efficacy of semen culture in the diagnosis and evalua- structive voiding symptoms. Textbooks advise the use of tion of CBP remains unclear. A comprehensive survey de- the Meares-Stamey four-glass test, also known as a quanti- scribed the study results of 40 men with CBP (NIH category tative prostatic localization study. Because of the time-con- II) due to Escherichia coli infection and their subsequent suming technique of the four-glass test and the impossi- treatment by fluoroquinolone therapy . In these pa- bility of establishing this technique in many andrology lab- tients, semen cultures demonstrated significant bacter- Korean J Urol 2012;53:69-77 72 Lee and Choi FIG. 1. A suggested diagnostic algorithm for the evaluation of patients presenting with chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS). UTIs, urinary tract infections; TRUS, transrectal ultrasonography; CT, computed tomography; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; DRE, digital rectal examination; PSA, prostate-specific antigen. iospermia (＞103 ml-1) in 21 of 40 men before treatment. On 5. Serum prostate-specific antigen and CP/CPPS the basis of this limited evidence, semen cultures were In one study addressing this issue, a statistically sig- shown to identify significant bacteriospermia in only about nificant elevation of serum prostate-specific antigen 50% of semen specimens from men with CBP; therefore, (s-PSA) was registered . However, the increase was mi- ejaculate culture is not recommended as a first line of diag- nute and s-PSA should not be interpreted to be a useful ad- nostic evaluation in men with suspected CBP . Further junct for diagnosis of CP/CPPS . The flip side of this coin comparative investigations will be necessary to determine is that, if s-PSA is elevated in a man with CP/CPPS symp- whether ejaculate analysis may provide useful diagnostic toms, the patient should be evaluated for prostate cancer information for the diagnosis of CBP. and CBP . 4.
