www.kjurology.org
KEYWORDS: chronic, prostatitis, pain, patients, urol, cpps, pelvic, syndrome, treatment, chronic prostatitis, pelvic pain, symptoms, chronic pelvic, pain syndrome, therapy


Because functional obstruction may cause CPPS, therapy typing classification system for patients diagnosed with using alpha-receptor blockers may be of significant benefit. urologic chronic pelvic pain syndromes (UCPPS) has re- The combination of an alpha-adrenergic blocker and anti- cently been proposed . UPOINT is a six-point clinical biotic therapy was shown to be more efficacious than anti- classification system that categorizes the phenotype of pa- biotics alone . Positive results from RCTs of al- tients with UCPPS (which includes the CPSs) into one or pha-blockers, e.g., terazosin , alfuzosin , doxazosin more of six clinically identifiable domains as follows: uri- , and tamsulosin , have led to a widespread use of nary, psychosocial, organ-specific, infection, neuro- alpha-blocker in the treatment of CPPS over the past years. easily and quickly categorize patients into one or more performance by blocking the alpha-receptors of the bladder UPOINT domains and propose an individually designed neck and prostate and by direct action on alpha-1A/D-re- phenotypes identified. Most patients will be categorized trials (n=734) could not show beneficial effect on pain . with more than one UPOINT domain and will require mul- Moreover, a more recent adequately powered, large, place- timodal therapy. This concept is outlined in Table 1. bo-controlled randomized trial of 12-week treatment with alfuzosin failed to show any significant difference in the TREATMENT outcome measures with the exception of the Male Sexual 1. CBP pha-blockers for the treatment of CPPS can no more be rec- Fluoroquinolones penetrate relatively well into the pros- ommended and should probably be restricted to patients tate and are therefore the therapy of choice for CBP with with proven bladder outlet obstruction. Therefore, it is rea- a typical administration duration of 4 weeks. If the patho- sonable to use alpha-blockers for men with lower urinary gen is resistant to fluoroquinolones, therapy with co- tract symptoms as the predominant symptom complaint, trimoxazole for 3 months is recommended . For re- especially in combination with antimicrobials. Muscle re- current CBP, each episode can either be treated with anti- laxants may be used if there is evidence of functional abnor- biotics or long-term antibiotic prophylaxis can be adminis- malities in the pelvic floor muscle. Intraprostatic injection trated for a duration of at least 6 months. Surgical proce- of botulinum toxin A is currently being investigated in dures such as transurethral resection of the prostate and these patients and may offer a future
