www.kjurology.org
KEYWORDS: chronic, prostatitis, pain, patients, urol, cpps, pelvic, syndrome, treatment, chronic prostatitis, pelvic pain, symptoms, chronic pelvic, pain syndrome, therapy


least 6 months. Surgical proce- of botulinum toxin A is currently being investigated in dures such as transurethral resection of the prostate and these patients and may offer a future therapeutic radical prostatectomy are regarded as therapies of last re- approach. Another pathogenetic hypothesis is that chronic Korean J Urol 2012;53:69-77 74 Lee and Choi bacterial infection is difficult to detect and cannot be clude repetitive prostate massage or methods to apply en- cultured. For this reason, it is justifiable to treat CP/CPPS ergy to the prostate. There is inadequate evidence support- IIIa patients with fluoroquinolones if they have not been ing the efficacy of these approaches and they remain previously exposed to antibiotics, just as with CBP patients controversial. If anatomical manifestations such as cysts . Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) re- in the prostate are observed, and these cause infravesical duce prostaglandin synthesis by inhibiting the enzyme cy- obstruction, surgical procedures should be performed to re- clooxygenase, leading to a favorable effect on prostatic in- move the obstruction. flammation . For this reason, patients with dominantly Neuromuscular and neuroleptic treatments have been pain-related symptoms may be given NSAIDs. A random- observed to beneficially alter nervous system conditions ized, placebo-controlled trial of pentosan polysulfate found in chronic pain syndrome. Therefore, therapies de- (Elmiron, Alza Pharmaceuticals, Mountain View, CA, signed to improve relaxation and encourage proper use of USA) in the treatment of CPPS demonstrated a slightly the pelvic floor muscle are expected to provide symptomatic weeks, but the difference was not statistically significant exist, preliminary evidence suggests potential efficacy in . Some herbal medicines act in a similar manner and the use of biofeedback and bladder retraining in alleviating could possibly be used, although they have not yet been sub- symptoms . When trigger-point massage was com- other modes of action (e.g., CNS) are indicated for intense 72% of patients reported improvement . Amitriptyline pain. Anticholinergic drugs may be used for symptomatic can be effective for the treatment of pain from chronic mus- treatment of patients with dominant micturition prob- cle spasm and it has been found to be helpful in the manage- lems, including urinary urgency linked to irritable ment of CPPS . A suggested treatment algorithm based bladder. If a patient exhibits the symptoms of CP/CPPS, on these assessments is presented in Fig. 2. picture is often classified as psychosomatic. The diagnosis 3. Discussion of novel treatment in
