www.kjurology.org
KEYWORDS: chronic, prostatitis, pain, patients, urol, cpps, pelvic, syndrome, treatment, chronic prostatitis, pelvic pain, symptoms, chronic pelvic, pain syndrome, therapy


If a patient exhibits the symptoms of CP/CPPS, on these assessments is presented in Fig. 2. picture is often classified as psychosomatic. The diagnosis 3. Discussion of novel treatment in category III prostatitis of a somatoform disorder must be carefully considered in Combination therapy has been suggested as a method to the context of other possible diagnoses and in close coopera- utilize synergism between classes of drugs and appears to tion with a urologist. In such cases, it is particularly im- be superior to monotherapy in the treatment of CP/CPPS portant to define accompanying depressive symptoms, and . A rational framework is required to guide this these must be diagnosed and treated separately from the therapy. UPOINT can be used to classify patients with uro- actual prostatitis symptoms. Sexual dysfunction problems logic chronic pelvic pain and subsequently direct appro- with a partner are frequently accompanied by significant priate therapy . A recently completed, prospective consequences to the relationship . Physical options in- study of 100 CP/CPPS patients treated with multimodal FIG. 2. A suggested therapeutic algori- thm for the treatment of patients pre- senting with chronic prostatitis/chro- nic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS). TUMT, transurethral microwave ther- motherapy. *Amitriptyline, gabapen- tin, biofeedback, massage therapy, acupuncture, neurostimulation. Korean J Urol 2012;53:69-77 Chronic Prostatitis: Approaches for Best Management 75 therapy offered specific therapies associated with each pos- 2. Yoo YN. Prostatitis. Korean J Urol 1994;35:575-85. itive UPOINT domain (e.g., urinary, alpha-blocker or anti- 3. McNaughton Collins M, Pontari MA, O'Leary MP, Calhoun EA, muscarinic; psychosocial, stress reduction/psychological Santanna J, Landis JR, et al. Quality of life is impaired in men with chronic prostatitis: the Chronic Prostatitis Collaborative support; organ-specific, quercetin; infection, antibiotic; Research Network. J Gen Intern Med 2001;16:656-62. neurologic/systemic, amitriptyline or pregabalin; tender- 4. Nickel JC, Downey J, Hunter D, Clark J. Prevalence of prostati- ness, pelvic floor physical therapy) . With a minimum tis-like symptoms in a population based study using the National follow-up duration of 6 months and an average follow-up Institutes of Health chronic prostatitis symptom index. J Urol of 50 weeks, 84 patients reached the primary endpoint of 2001;165:842-5. a six-point or greater improvement in total CPSI. Fifty-one 5. Nickel JC, Nigro M, Valiquette L, Anderson P, Patrick A, patients had a 50% or greater improvement in total CPSI, Mahoney J, et al. Diagnosis and treatment of prostatitis in whereas 84 patients demonstrated 25% or more improve- Canada.
