HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


HHS Public Access Author manuscript J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Published in final edited form as: J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2018 July ; 67(1): 131–143. doi:. Nutritional Considerations in Pediatric Pancreatitis: A Position Paper from the NASPGHAN Pancreas Committee and ESPGHAN Cystic Fibrosis/ Pancreas Working Group Maisam Abu-El-Haija*,+,1, Aliye Uc*,+,2, Steven L. Werlin*,+,3, A. Jay Freeman+,4, Miglena Georgieva>,5, Danijela Jojkić – Pavkov>,6, Daina Kalnins7, Brigitte Kochavi>,8, Bart G. P. Koot>,9, Stephanie Van Biervliet>,10, Jaroslaw Walkowiak>,11, Michael Wilschanski^,>,12, and Veronique D. Morinville^,+,13 Center, Ramat Gan, Israel 9Department of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Academic Medical Centre, Abstract Objectives—Wide variations exist in how physicians manage the nutritional aspects of children affected by acute pancreatitis (AP), acute recurrent pancreatitis (ARP) and chronic (CP) pancreatitis. Better consensus for optimal management is needed. Methods—This consensus statement on nutrition in pediatric pancreatic diseases was developed through a joint ESPGHAN-NASPGHAN working group that performed an evidence-based search Corresponding author information: Veronique D. Morinville, MDCM, FRCPC, Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology and H4A 3J1. . *co-first authors ^co-senior authors +NASPGHAN Pancreas Committee Member >ESPGHAN Cystic Fibrosis/ Pancreas Working Group Member Conflicts reported: nil reported by all authors DISCLAIMER: ESPGHAN/ NASPGHAN are not responsible for the practices of physicians and provide guidelines and position papers as indicators of best practice only. Diagnosis and treatment are at the discretion of physicians. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript of the literature on nutrition in AP, ARP, and CP with a focus on pediatrics. The literature was summarized, quality of evidence reviewed, and expert recommendations developed. The authorship met to discuss the evidence and statements. Voting on recommendations occurred over two rounds based on feedback. A consensus of at least 75% was required to approve a recommendation. Areas requiring further research were identified. Results and Discussion—The literature on nutrition in pediatric pancreatitis is limited. Children with mild AP benefit from starting an early nutritional regimen in the course of the attack. Early nutrition should be attempted in severe AP when possible; enteral nutrition is preferred over parenteral nutrition. Children with ARP are likely to tolerate and benefit from a regular diet. Children with CP need ongoing assessment for growth and nutritional deficiencies, exocrine and endocrine insufficiencies. Conclusion—This document presents the first authoritative recommendations on nutritional considerations in pediatric pancreatitis. Future research should address the gaps in knowledge particularly relating to optimal nutrition for AP in children, role
