HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


document presents the first authoritative recommendations on nutritional considerations in pediatric pancreatitis. Future research should address the gaps in knowledge particularly relating to optimal nutrition for AP in children, role of diet or dietary supplements on recurrent attacks of pancreatitis and pain episodes, monitoring practices to detect early growth and nutritional deficiencies in CP and identifying risk factors that predispose children to these deficiencies. Keywords Pediatrics; acute pancreatitis; acute recurrent pancreatitis; chronic pancreatitis; nutrition; parenteral nutrition; enteral nutrition Introduction Acute, acute recurrent, and chronic pancreatitis are increasingly recognized and diagnosed in children. (1) Few studies are published to answer fundamental questions regarding pancreatitis and nutrition management in pediatric patients. While adult studies have investigated the role of nutrition in pancreatitis, caution should be exercised when extrapolating these data to pediatric patients, as pancreatitis in children has different etiologies, presentations and outcomes compared with adults (2). Management of nutritional needs in children affected by pancreatic diseases varies widely. Historically, most therapy has been based on institutional preferences rather than scientific evidence. The ESPGHAN (European Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition) Cystic Fibrosis/ Pancreas Working Group and the NASPGHAN (North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition) Pancreas Committee combined efforts with the goal to review the available scientific evidence for various nutritional interventions (nil per os (NPO), total parenteral nutrition (TPN), polymeric versus elemental formulas, use of nasogastric and nasojejunal tubes, low versus normal versus high fat diet, supplementation of vitamins or pancreatic enzymes, etc.) in pancreatic disease (acute pancreatitis (AP), acute recurrent pancreatitis (ARP), chronic pancreatitis (CP)). The literature reviews were utilized to make management recommendations based on scientific evidence. Consensus/expert opinion was provided when evidence was insufficient. Suggestions were provided for further research based on identified gaps. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript This clinical document summarizes various aspects of nutritional care in pediatric pancreatic diseases during: (a) acute pancreatitis; (b) between episodes of acute pancreatitis; and (c) chronic pancreatitis, with or without exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, and provides recommendations for management and suggestions for further research. Definitions as per Morinville et al are summarized as follows: AP is defined as requiring at least 2 out of 3 criteria: (1) abdominal pain suggestive of, or compatible with AP (i.e. abdominal pain of acute onset, especially in the epigastric region); (2) serum amylase and /or
