HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


review of the medical literature through MEDLINE and PubMed up to August 2016. E-mail correspondence between the subgroup leaders and two senior authors, and teleconferences between the two senior authors led to the preparation of a draft by each subgroup leader with input of other authors. The manuscript was then shared with the remainder of the authorship for review before a group discussion was held at the October 2016 World Congress of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. At this face-to-face meeting, each subgroup presented pertinent literature J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript review, estimated strength of evidence, and proposed the statement recommendations to vote for each element under consideration. The summary statements/recommendations were discussed, and approved, rejected or modified based on the feedback of attendees. Subsequent to group discussion, each recommendation was voted upon for the first time, using a 5-point scale (5- strongly agree; 4- agree; 3- neutral: neither agree nor disagree; 2- disagree; 1- strongly disagree). It had been previously-agreed that consensus could only be reached if at least 75% of the group voted “4”(agree) or “5” (strongly agree) on a particular recommendation. A modified version of the GRADE recommendations system was carried out, classifying recommendations based on three levels (A= high quality evidence; B= moderate quality evidence; and C= low quality evidence), in addition to designating recommendations as 1= strong recommendation or 2= weak recommendation (5). Authors had reviewed the modified GRADE methodology (as described in www.uptodate.com) (6) ahead of evaluating the various recommendations. Of note, this modified methodology (6) differed from the official GRADE mechanism in that evaluators were not independent from the group developing the recommendations, no independent opinion on level of evidence was provided, and no formal GRADE report of the literature was created for the statements derived. Additionally, the strength of a recommendation was based on the authors’ expert opinion regarding the recommendation, and not directly related to the GRADE criteria. A second round of voting occurred via email in April-May 2017 utilizing the modified recommendations, and request to return voting results within a 14-day timeframe, with responses printed and tabulated. The final manuscript draft was approved by all authors. 1.Nutrition During Acute Pancreatitis One of the main principles in treating patients with AP of any age has been to follow a NPO (7) approach,
