HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


was approved by all authors. 1.Nutrition During Acute Pancreatitis One of the main principles in treating patients with AP of any age has been to follow a NPO (7) approach, with or without the use of TPN, with the aim to suppress pancreatic enzyme demonstrated that this approach can actually lead to an increased risk of infectious complications due to bacterial overgrowth and translocation from the gut, resulting in higher morbidity and mortality in patients with severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) (8). In general, nutrition support will begin after any necessary fluid resuscitation and ensuring hemodynamic stability in the AP patient. Determining the most optimal nutritional support is considered an essential part of AP management but this is not well studied in pediatrics (9, 10). Consequently, few recommendations exist. For the purpose of this document, enteral nutrition will relate to any form of food taken into the gastrointestinal tract-by mouth, gastric, duodenal, or jejunal route. This section will review the evidence for various forms of nutritional support and attempt to derive recommendations based on the literature with respect to the management of children with AP. 1.1 Enteral nutrition (oral, gastric, jejunal) during an episode of acute pancreatitis—Most studies regarding AP and nutrition have been conducted in the adult population, with limited evidence in children. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 1.1a Nutrition in Mild Acute Pancreatitis: Compelling evidence in the adult literature supports early introduction of enteral feeds in mild AP. Enteral support including a full solid diet in mild AP appears to be safe and well-tolerated and is associated with positive length of stay was shorter in patients with predicted mild AP when patients received enteral support compared with “conventional fasting or NPO”(14). In fact, the group that received enteral nutrition had similar pain severity to the group that was NPO (14). In the pediatric literature, Abu-El-Haija et al, reported that enteral nutrition was well tolerated and not associated with adverse pain outcomes in a small cohort of 38 children admitted with AP (15). Another study by the same group found that early enteral nutrition in mild AP was associated with shorter length of stay, lower rate of intensive care admissions and lower rates of progression to severe acute pancreatitis. A general diet, without restrictions of type of food or fat content, was tolerated in patients
