HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


rate of intensive care admissions and lower rates of progression to severe acute pancreatitis. A general diet, without restrictions of type of food or fat content, was tolerated in patients who were allowed to eat by mouth. (16) Summary 1.1: Initiation of enteral nutrition in mild AP has proven to be of benefit in both adults and children. Early initiation of a normal diet (< 48 hours) is feasible in most cases. Oral food intake in children with mild AP is likely to be safe. Recommendation 1.1a: Children with mild acute pancreatitis should be started on a general (regular) diet and advanced as tolerated* 13/13 = 100% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 10 strongly agree; 3 agree; 0 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree GRADE 1B: Strong recommendation; moderate quality evidence *As soon as feasible (preferably within 48 hours of admission) Recommendation 1.1aa: Children with mild acute pancreatitis should be nourished preferably via mouth in contrast to nasogastric route. 13/13 = 100% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 12 strongly agree; 1 agree; 0 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence 1.1b Enteral Nutrition in Severe Acute Pancreatitis: Most studies involving nutrition in SAP have utilized predicted SAP as criterion. The evidence suggests that enteral nutrition (EN) is superior to lack of EN in SAP outcomes, and EN was associated with reduced complications and lower mortality according to previous studies (14, 17–20). SAP carries a high mortality in adult pancreatitis, and carries an increased morbidity in pediatric patients with pancreatitis. Clear evidence from adult data supports EN as beneficial in patients with the feasibility and safety of oral food were studied in adult AP and were shown to decrease J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript the length of hospitalization without a difference in adverse outcomes from oral food.(29) started within 24–48 hours after admission is superior to PN and is associated with reduced complications and lower mortality.(30–33) A recent clinical trial did not show superiority of early nasoenteric tube feeding compared with an oral diet begun after 72 hours, in terms of reducing the rate of infection or death in patients with predicted SAP.(34) It is important to highlight that this study looked at predicted SAP patients, not whether the patients had a complicated course or not. Additionally, both groups eventually
