HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


with predicted SAP.(34) It is important to highlight that this study looked at predicted SAP patients, not whether the patients had a complicated course or not. Additionally, both groups eventually received EN (whether eating by mouth in the “on demand” group versus the enteral tube group) and hence the study focused on the timing and type of nutrition in SAP and did not directly study the impact of using nutrition or not in SAP. Summary 1.1b: Initiation of EN in predicted SAP and SAP seems safe. Early initiation (<72 hours from presentation) might be beneficial. Recommendation 1.1b: Enteral nutrition (oral, nasogastric or nasojejunal as tolerated) should be attempted in children with severe acute pancreatitis within 72 hours from presentation to medical care, once deemed hemodynamically stable. 13/13 = 100% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 10 strongly agree; 3 agree; 0 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence 1.2 Enteral versus Parenteral Nutrition in Acute Pancreatitis—Studies advocate for EN given its safety profile, lower cost and lower risk of infection compared with PN.(17, 26) Enteral nutrition is an integral part of AP management as it is associated with lower incidence of infection, less multi-organ failure, lower surgical rates, reduced mortality rates and shorter hospital stay compared with PN in adult patients according to randomized controlled trials and meta-analyses (33, 35, 36). However, no studies have been performed in children to compare EN and PN in AP. there could be a role for combined therapy with EN and PN. In a randomized study of 100 SAP patients who received PN alone versus PN plus EN versus EN only, the groups with EN included as part of the management had fewer complications compared with the group that had no EN included (62 vs 94 patients). Complications included superinfections (8% vs 30%), hepatic functional insufficiency (4% vs 24%) and intra-peritoneal infections (4% vs 12%). Groups with EN had earlier restoration of oral nutrition (18.5 vs 24.8 days, P<0.05), a P<0.05).(37). A consideration particularly in younger children is the frequent need for sedation for placement of even peripherally placed central access intravenous lines. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Summary 1.2: For patients not meeting caloric goals with EN alone, a combination of EN and PN appears preferable to PN alone. 1.3 Timing of Initiation
