HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Summary 1.2: For patients not meeting caloric goals with EN alone, a combination of EN and PN appears preferable to PN alone. 1.3 Timing of Initiation of Enteral Feedings in Acute Pancreatitis—Studies in adults have shown that EN should be initiated as soon as possible, ideally within 48 hours from admission, especially in the presence of preexisting malnutrition (38) (15) (17) (19) (19)(18)(18)(17). Such comparative studies are not available in pediatrics: therefore management in children is variable due to this lack of guidelines (39). In adult patients with AP who are critically ill and hospitalized in an intensive care unit, EN initiated within 48 hours of admission is associated with a reduction of infectious complications and mortality compared to delayed nutrition (38). In one systematic review of 11 randomized controlled studies, Petrov at al. (40) noted significant benefits of EN over TPN in patients with AP only if nutrition was started within the first 48 hours of admission, whereas no significant benefits were noted if nutritional support was started afterwards. According to published guidelines for adults with AP, early EN initiated within 48 hours of hyperglycemia and death, and by shortening the length of hospitalization in both mild and severe forms of AP (40). Early nutrition has not been standardized for the management of children with AP, due to lack of data (16) (41). In 2010, Park et al. (42) published the data of a retrospective chart review on 271 infants and older children with AP at Yale-New Haven Children’s Hospital. They concluded that infants/toddlers were less likely than older children to directly transition from NPO to oral feedings. According to studies by Mekitarian et al. (43) and Kumar et al. (44), early EN was better than late EN or TPN (the average fasting time for patients with mild disease was 58 hours). A retrospective review of 201 children with AP at Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center reported that 49.7% of children received EN within 24 hours of admission, and 75% received EN within 48 hours. The conclusion of this latter study was that early EN along with early aggressive intravenous fluids management was safe and effective in the management of pediatric AP and was associated with improved outcomes mainly by decreasing the length of hospitalization and rate of SAP (16). Abu-El-Haija et al. (15) published the results of a small (39 pts) retrospective chart review
