HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


with improved outcomes mainly by decreasing the length of hospitalization and rate of SAP (16). Abu-El-Haija et al. (15) published the results of a small (39 pts) retrospective chart review of a prospectively collected nutrition database in mild AP admissions. They concluded that nutrition could be started orally (within 24–48h of admission) without increasing pain severity and the length of stay. Summary 1.3: EN is preferred over PN in AP. No data are available on the timing of initiation of PN if EN fails. Recommendation 1.3a: Enteral nutrition is favored over parenteral nutrition when possible in acute pancreatitis. 13/13 = 100% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 12 strongly agree; 1 agree; 0 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence Recommendation 1.3b: Combination of enteral nutrition and parenteral nutrition, caloric goals with enteral nutrition alone and have not received full calories for a week into hospitalization.* 13/13 = 100% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 11 strongly agree; 2 agree; 0 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence * In infants, there could be consideration for nutritional interventions even earlier than one week into the illness due to infants’ increased fragility versus older children. Recommendation 1.3c Parenteral mode of nutrition should be used when oral/ nasogastric/ nasojejunal feeds are not tolerated. 13/13 = 100% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 8 strongly agree; 5 agree; 0 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence 1.4 Gastric versus Jejunal Feeding in Acute Pancreatitis—The studies that established the practice of early EN for SAP in adults all provided enteral nutrition via NJ tube. (45) Jejunal feeding has the theoretical benefit to provide ‘rest’ for the pancreas by diminishing exocrine secretion into the parenchyma in order to reduce the inflammatory reaction. However, even if pancreatic secretions are preferentially reduced by using jejunal feedings rather than gastric feedings, whether this is clinically beneficial has not been proven. (46) No study has compared the use of gastric versus jejunal feedings in adults or children with to jejunal feedings in predicted or confirmed SAP. In adults with SAP, several small controlled clinical trials have been published.(47–49) A meta-analysis of 3 randomized controlled trials (RCTs), including 157 subjects with SAP, revealed no difference
