HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


confirmed SAP. In adults with SAP, several small controlled clinical trials have been published.(47–49) A meta-analysis of 3 randomized controlled trials (RCTs), including 157 subjects with SAP, revealed no difference in mortality, exacerbation of pain, tracheal aspiration, diarrhea and achievement of the nutritional target when using NG versus NJ feeds. (50). The relative risk of infection in gastric versus jejunal feedings calculated from 2 of the included studies (n=109) also demonstrated no difference (RR 0.78; 95%CI 0.44–1.33).(48, 49) These analyses suggested that gastric feeding is safe and well tolerated in AP. A more recent meta-analysis by Zhu et al reviewed four randomized controlled trials involving 237 patients with SAP and similarly found that NG nutrition was as safe and effective as NJ nutrition in SAP. (51) No report has been published that investigate enteral feeding regimens in pediatric AP. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Summary: Adult studies suggest that NG feeding is as safe and as effective as NJ feeding in AP whenever clinically tolerated. NJ feedings are indicated when oral and NG feedings are not tolerated. Recommendation 1.4a: Jejunal tube feeding should be reserved for those unable to tolerate oral or nasogastric tube feedings in mild acute pancreatitis. 13/13 = 100% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 12 strongly agree; 1 agree; 0 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence Recommendation: 1.4b: Based on the limited data from the adult literature, the use of oral or nasogastric tube feedings in children with severe acute pancreatitis is likely to are important differences in the etiology and pathogenesis of pancreatitis between adults and children. 12/13 = 92% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 7 strongly agree; 5 agree; 1 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence Recommendation 1.4c: Even in severe acute pancreatitis, jejunal tube feeding should be reserved for those unable to tolerate oral or nasogastric tube feeding. 11/13 = 85% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 5 strongly agree; 6 agree; 2 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence 1.5. Diet/ Formula Composition in Acute Pancreatitis—Despite studies in adults with AP demonstrating that nutrition should start as soon as possible, the optimal composition of the enteral feeding (elemental, semi-elemental, polymeric formulations) remains largely unknown with only few publications addressing
