HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


with AP demonstrating that nutrition should start as soon as possible, the optimal composition of the enteral feeding (elemental, semi-elemental, polymeric formulations) remains largely unknown with only few publications addressing this issue (19) (52) (40). Also uncertain is whether any supplementation of specific amino acids or fats or the addition of probiotics is beneficial. Olah et al. (52) reviewed randomized controlled trials for enteral nutrition, including glutamine, arginine, nucleotides and omega-3 fatty acids, and enteral nutrients supplemented with probiotics for patients with AP. These trials demonstrated that significantly different (53) (54) (55) (56). A systematic review and meta-analysis (40) showed that the use of polymeric compared with (semi)elemental formulas did not lead to significantly different rates of feeding intolerance, infectious complications or death in patients with AP. A meta-analysis demonstrated that glutamine supplementation resulted in J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript significantly reduced risk of mortality and infectious complications, but not decreased length of hospital stay (57). Sathiaraj et al (58) and Moraes et al. (12) reported a significantly decreased length of hospitalization in those receiving a soft diet compared with those receiving a clear liquid diet (P <0.001). Jacobson et al. (59) reported no difference in the length of hospitalization, but that a solid diet provided more energy to patients compared with a liquid diet. The pediatric literature relates to different forms of nutrition. Kumar et al. (44) published pediatric experience reporting that rates of perceived intolerance to an initial oral diet were similar between clear liquid and solid diets, 26 and 31% respectively. Abu-El-Haija et al. published a pediatric series echoing the adult population findings of Moraes et al. that a general oral diet was well tolerated in mild AP and was not associated with abdominal pain relapse (12, 15, 16). The practice of separately providing probiotics in AP management was reviewed in a recent publication on the management of AP by Abu-El-Haija et al (60). There have been concerns about use of probiotics as not only of no benefit, but potentially of being harmful to patients with AP. No voting occurred relating to their use within this document. Summary 1.5: No reports document any clinically important differences in outcomes between polymeric and elemental formulas in AP. No studies reveal any evidence that immune-enhanced nutrients or probiotics are beneficial in the management of AP.
