HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


any clinically important differences in outcomes between polymeric and elemental formulas in AP. No studies reveal any evidence that immune-enhanced nutrients or probiotics are beneficial in the management of AP. Recommendation1.5a: The use of specialized formulas or immunonutrition is not necessary in the management of pediatric acute pancreatitis * 13/13 = 100% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 9 strongly agree; 4 agree; 0 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence *Future studies could alter this recommendation 1.6 Areas of Potential Research Relating to Nutrition in Pediatric Acute Pancreatitis—Based on the literature review and discussions regarding nutritional management in acute pancreatitis, several gaps of knowledge are identified. Future research should focus on prospective randomized trials in pediatric AP that include management of pain and complications, disease duration, recurrence of attacks, and outcome. Particular areas identified for study in nutrition related to pediatric AP include the following: • Determining the effect of low fat versus normal fat diet on outcomes of mild AP • Studying the use of early EN versus delayed nutrition in AP • Defining benefits of early (within first 24h, 48h or 72h) versus late EN and PN in the management of predicted SAP and confirmed SAP • Prospective trials involving EN given via oral/NG versus NJ route in children with (predicted) SAP J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript • Confirming the effects of formula composition (complete protein, di-tri-peptides, elemental diet; and/or specifically added components such as glutamine, arginine, nucleotides, omega-3 fatty acids) on outcomes in SAP • Studying the role of the microbiome and how it may relate to intestinal permeability changes and inflammation in AP 2. Nutrition Between Episodes of Acute Recurrent Pancreatitis Nutritional therapy following an AP episode or between episodes of ARP has been minimally studied in adults or children. Historically patients were kept and maintained NPO during an episode of AP until pain and vomiting resolved and until serum levels of pancreatic enzymes returned to normal. This regimen frequently led to prolonged fasting. Since it was presumed that “resting the pancreas” was required to heal an inflamed gland, patients were subsequently treated with a low-fat diet, often for a prolonged period of several weeks or months. In most reports, the term “low fat diet” was not well-defined, nor was the length of time that
