HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


low-fat diet, often for a prolonged period of several weeks or months. In most reports, the term “low fat diet” was not well-defined, nor was the length of time that low fat diet was required. As a reference, a normal fat pediatric diet is defined as a diet containing 30- 40% fat for children 1–3 years old and 25–35% fat for 4–18 years old. Regular fat diets are typically utilized to provide appropriate caloric and nutrient intakes and food variety for growing children. (61). Low fat diet has been defined by adolescent obesity programs as < 30% of total calories consisting of fat, with < 10% of calories from saturated fats, ultra/very low fat has been defined as < 20% of total calories from fat.(62, 63) Others consider “low fat” to be < 10% of total calories from fat. Hence, there is disagreement even with respect to definitions of fat content and diet names, leading to a very heterogeneous clinical practice. Recent evidence summarized above has clearly demonstrated that early, rather than delayed nutrition improves outcome and shortens the duration of disease in AP. A variety of dietary interventions are recommended for adults following attacks of AP and between attacks of ARP. In spite of these recommendations, data supporting them are sparse. Most studies are small, uncontrolled or contradicted by other studies. Aside from case reports, no published evidence exists in children for any of the interventions discussed below. 2.1. Fat Content of Diet in Children with Acute Recurrent Pancreatitis—A low- fat diet has frequently been prescribed following an episode of AP in order to “rest the pancreas”. This concept has led to delayed feeding of patients with AP, a practice that is now generally abandoned, since it is now known that these patients tolerate enteral feedings (12). For the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia-induced ARP, a low-fat diet is required for the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia and prevention of recurrent attacks (64). For mild and moderate AP, the European Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition recommends a diet with “moderate” (undefined) fat content for 3–7 days and a regular diet subsequently (65). A low-fat diet was helpful in the relief of dyspepsia in adults with mild non-alcoholic pancreatic disease. A recent small study in children with AP showed that those given > J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript
