HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


study in children with AP showed that those given > J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 1g/kg/day fat had less pain compared to those given a low fat diet during AP (15), negating the indication for low fat diet in children with AP. None of these studies followed patients beyond the first AP episode. In general, a regular diet appears safe after the first week of illness in AP. Summary 2.1: No studies have been reported on the use of low-fat versus regular-fat diets between episodes of AP. No evidence supports an indication for a diet differing from a regular diet between episodes of AP in children. Recommendation 2.1a: When tolerated, children should receive a regular-fat diet in between episodes of acute recurrent pancreatitis.* 12/13 = 92% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 10 strongly agree; 2 agree; 1 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence *Of note: in selected patients who are intolerant of a regular diet, abdominal pain and vomiting may improve on a low-fat diet. Recommendation 2.1b: A regular-fat diet can safely be started within one week after the onset of illness in acute pancreatitis as tolerated for cases other than caused by hypertriglyceridemia (triglycerides > 10mmol/L or >1000 mg/dL). * 12/13 = 92% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 7 strongly agree; 5 agree; 1 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence 2.2 Use of Pancreatic Enzyme Replacement Therapy in Children with Acute Recurrent Pancreatitis—Feedback regulation of pancreatic enzyme secretion is mediated by luminal cholecystokinin (CCK) - releasing factor (LCRF) that is inactivated by trypsin (66). Following a meal, LCRF interacts with CCK-secreting enterochromaffin cells in the proximal intestine, which stimulates CCK secretion. In theory, providing ingested pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy (PERT) will inactivate LCRF, with the consequence that the pancreas will not be stimulated and will be able to “rest”. Because of this mechanistic rationale, pancreatic enzymes have been given to patients with CP to “rest the pancreas” and therefore to prevent and/or relieve pain. While ample evidence shows that PERT is beneficial for the treatment of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency in CP, whether it is beneficial in the treatment or prevention of pain in CP remains controversial. A Cochrane review and a recent meta-analysis cast doubt on the efficacy of PERT
