HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


CP, whether it is beneficial in the treatment or prevention of pain in CP remains controversial. A Cochrane review and a recent meta-analysis cast doubt on the efficacy of PERT in CP (67, 68). With respect to management between episodes of ARP, no studies report on the effectiveness of PERT following an episode of AP in adults or in children, or in between episodes in ARP. Patients with ARP by definition are pancreatic exocrine sufficient. However, since some patients develop transient pancreatic insufficiency following an J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript episode of severe AP, some authors recommend the use of PERT during the recovery phase (69). The use of pancreatic supplements in patients without exocrine pancreatic insufficiency is not indicated. Summary 2.2: There is insufficient literature reporting on the benefit of pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy in ARP, whether in pediatrics or adults. Recommendation 2.2a: Pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy should not be exocrine pancreatic insufficiency. 13/13 = 100% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 11 strongly agree; 2 agree; 0 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence 2.3 Use of Antioxidants in Acute Recurrent Pancreatitis—Since oxidative stress is associated with pancreatitis and antioxidants are depleted during episodes of AP, it was hypothesized that antioxidant supplementation might be beneficial in the treatment and prevention of episodes (70). Despite data from animal models, published reports in humans has been contradictory (70). A recent meta-analysis demonstrated that in adults, antioxidants reduced the length of stay in AP by 2.59 days but have no effect on CP pain (71) Another meta-analysis demonstrates no benefit in adult patients with CP (72). A recent Cochrane review also demonstrates no benefit for pain in CP (67). In a case report, antioxidants were shown to be beneficial in reducing pain episodes in 3 children with hereditary pancreatitis (73). No other published data are available on the use of antioxidants for AP or ARP in children. Certain vitamins have been used as part of anti-oxidant cocktails used in pancreatitis studies (vitamin C and vitamin E in particular)(73). No studies have specifically investigated whether the use of vitamins alone could be beneficial in AP or ARP. Summary 2.3: No strong medical evidence supports the use of anti-oxidants in the ARP population- whether to reduce risk of recurrence, pain, or improve nutritional
