HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


beneficial in AP or ARP. Summary 2.3: No strong medical evidence supports the use of anti-oxidants in the ARP population- whether to reduce risk of recurrence, pain, or improve nutritional outcome. Studies have not demonstrated any negative effects of antioxidant use. Significant heterogeneity exists in types of antioxidants utilized and dosages across studies for AP and CP. Recommendation 2.3a: There is insufficient evidence to support supplementing children with acute recurrent pancreatitis with antioxidants. We cannot recommend this therapy at this time. 13/13 = 100% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 11 strongly agree; 2 agree; 0 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence 2.4 Use of Probiotics in Acute Recurrent Pancreatitis—Probiotics have been proposed for their potential immunomodulatory effects, restoration of gut integrity, to decrease bacterial translocation and for the prevention of the proliferation of harmful bacteria. However, no literature exists on the application of probiotics between episodes of AP, whether for pediatric or adult populations. Due to lack of medical evidence supporting or refuting use of probiotics in ARP, no summary-voting occurred. 2.5 Areas of Potential Research in Nutritional Management of Acute Recurrent Pancreatitis—Specific questions raised by the literature review and group discussion highlighted the following needs in pediatric ARP: • Determining whether a normal fat diet is harmful and whether or not a low-fat diet is beneficial in reducing pain and recurrent episodes of ARP. • Studying whether PERT improves nutrition and /or reduces pain and recurrent episodes of AP in ARP patients - ideally via a randomized, double-blind, controlled study (based on adult CP literature with some studies showing benefit from PERT) • Determining whether antioxidants and probiotics have beneficial effects such as decreased pain, fewer episodes of AP and improved nutrition. Due to the relative infrequency of ARP, all these proposed studies would need to be conducted as multicenter studies. 3. Nutrition in Children Diagnosed with Chronic Pancreatitis, with or without Exocrine Pancreatic Insufficiency and/or Pancreatogenic Diabetes Data from the INSPPIRE cohort has shown that one third of children with CP have exocrine pancreatic insufficiency (EPI)(74), and a Polish study has demonstrated that 25% of children with CP have malnutrition (75). Nevertheless, data regarding nutrition in pediatric CP are scarce and mostly limited to small retrospective reviews that lack both power
