HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


demonstrated that 25% of children with CP have malnutrition (75). Nevertheless, data regarding nutrition in pediatric CP are scarce and mostly limited to small retrospective reviews that lack both power and consistency to offer real impact on clinical care. As such, clinicians have been required to extrapolate findings from the adult literature or rely on anecdotal experience. Given the differences in etiologies between adult and pediatric patients with CP, particularly the increased identification of CFTR mutations among patients with CP (76), many providers have begun to utilize the results from cystic fibrosis (CF) nutritional studies to guide long-term management. CP and CF patients share many similar nutritional concerns that include, but are not limited to: 1) increased energy expenditure, 2) possible EPI resulting in fat maldigestion/ malabsorption and fat-soluble vitamin deficiencies, 3) micronutrient deficiencies, 4) lessons learned through the broader body of research in CF nutrition provide a logical starting point in discussing nutrition in pediatric CP as many parallels are likely to exist, but J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript do not replace the necessary studies that are required to optimize nutritional care for children with CP. In this section, we review the limited work on pediatric CP nutrition as well as adult CP and pediatric CF nutritional studies as they may pertain to pediatric CP. Recommendations are made where appropriate, but more importantly we highlight the areas where research is required to optimize the nutritional care of pediatric patients with CP. 3.1. Calorie Requirements and Monitoring in Pediatric Patients with Chronic Pancreatitis—The effect of CP on the resting energy expenditure (REE) in children is unknown. Adult literature suggests that REE may be 30–50% greater than normal or up to 1.5–1.8× the basal energy expenditure in patients with CP (77–79). This has led many to recommend a higher calorie diet in adult patients with CP. Given the lack of nutritional guidelines in children with CP, adequate growth and nutrition has been monitored via validated pediatric measures of nutrition including; weight, height, BMI, mid arm circumference, triceps skin fold, handgrip strength, nutritional assessments and bio- impedance in a few studies (80, 81). Duggan et al reported that BMI is lower in patients with CP compared with controls, although 30% of patients with CP in their study were obese. They also reported lower handgrip strength, fat and
