HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


that BMI is lower in patients with CP compared with controls, although 30% of patients with CP in their study were obese. They also reported lower handgrip strength, fat and muscle stores in patients with CP compared with controls (82). Recommendations exist for nutritional management of children and adults with CF and EPI (83). Rasmussen et al. recommend screening patients with CP every 3–6 months; in comparison, children with CF are screened at least every 3 months (81). Summary 3.1: Pediatric patients with CP may have higher resting energy requirements compared with healthy subjects. Routine monitoring of growth parameters with weight, height and BMI is recommended. Limited data exist on other nutritional assessments including anthropometric measurements, handgrip strength, bioelectric impedance to monitor nutrition and adequate growth. Recommendation 3.1a: Children with chronic pancreatitis should undergo routine surveillance to screen for signs of impaired growth and/or malnutrition utilizing validated measures of nutrition including weight, height and body mass index. 13/13 = 100% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 12 strongly agree; 1 agree; 0 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence Recommendation 3.1b: The frequency of evaluation of children with chronic pancreatitis for signs of impaired growth/ malnutrition should be every 3–6 months. 13/13 = 100% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 10 strongly agree; 3 agree; 0 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 3.2. Macronutrient Requirements and Monitoring in Children with Chronic Pancreatitis—The ideal dietary macronutrient (protein, fat, carbohydrate) composition for children with CP has not been studied. Adult recommendations vary from a regular diet with standard protein, fat and carbohydrate proportions to a carbohydrate-rich diet consisting of 1.0–1.5g/kg body weight of protein per day, no more than 30–40% of total calories from fat and approximately 50% of total calories from carbohydrates (10, 79, 80, 84). In some adult studies of patients with CP and persistent abdominal pain, decreasing fat content to less than 30% and/or increasing the proportion of medium chain triglycerides (MCTs) or transitioning to hydrolyzed formulas (10, 85, 86) result in decreased pain (85, 87). In patients with CP and type 3c diabetes mellitus (T3cDM), carbohydrates and the proportion of MCTs may need to be limited to prevent ketoacidosis (10, 80, 81). In pediatric patients with CF
