HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


with CP and type 3c diabetes mellitus (T3cDM), carbohydrates and the proportion of MCTs may need to be limited to prevent ketoacidosis (10, 80, 81). In pediatric patients with CF and EPI, a diet consisting of 35–40% fat, 20% protein and 40–45% carbohydrates has been recommended (88–90). Summary 3.2: No specific studies address the ideal macronutrient composition that is required in the diet of children with CP. Recommendation 3.2a: Children with chronic pancreatitis, with or without exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, should receive a regular diet. 13/13 = 100% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 9 strongly agree; 4 agree; 0 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence Recommendation 3.2b: Children who have both chronic pancreatitis and type 3c diabetes mellitus require specialized diabetic nutritional evaluation. 13/13 = 100% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 9 strongly agree; 4 agree; 0 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence 3.3. Vitamin, Mineral and Trace Element Requirements and Monitoring for Deficiencies in Children with Chronic Pancreatitis—Deficiencies in vitamins, minerals and trace elements have only been studied in adults with CP, but not in children. Deficiencies in the fat-soluble vitamins E, A and D are common in patients with CP (82, 91– 99); vitamin A deficiency specifically correlates with malnutrition (82). Likewise, in patients with CF, fat-soluble vitamin deficiencies are also common. Yearly screening for vitamin D status, preferably at the end of winter, using the serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D measurement is recommended. A minimal 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentration of 30 ng/ml (75 nmol/liter) is considered indicative of vitamin D sufficiency in children with CF. If supplementation is required, the level is rechecked 3 months after initiating therapy or dosing change (100). Annual testing for vitamin A and E (alpha, beta and gamma tocopherol) is also J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript recommended in CF. Additionally vitamin K (PIVKA-II or PT or vitamin concentrations) is monitored in CF if any patient has a history of liver disease and/or bleeding (101, 102). Data regarding water-soluble vitamin deficiencies and requirements is scarce and limited to small-size cohorts in pediatric CP. Serum ascorbate levels were low in a small cohort of adults with CP in South Africa (95). In another study, vitamin C levels were low in patients with alcoholic and tropical pancreatitis compared with controls
