HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence 3.4. Bone Health and Monitoring for Osteoporosis in Children with Chronic Pancreatitis—No data exist on bone health in children with CP. Adults with CP (alcohol- induced) have abnormal bone mineral density (BMD), which is accentuated in the presence of EPI even with use of pancreatic enzymes (111). In one study, an abnormal dual-energy X- ray absorptiometry (DEXA) showing osteopenia/osteoporosis was associated with advanced CP, abnormal fecal elastase and vitamin D levels (112). In adults with CP, 65% have been shown to have low bone mineral density (BMD) compared to 10% of controls (113, 114) with approximately 40% having osteopenia, and about 25% osteoporosis (115). Patients with CP are at a higher risk for bone fractures (Hazard Ratio: 1.7); risk is further increased with alcohol use, older age and longer duration of disease (116). Children with CF undergo baseline BMD if: >8 years of age, if <90% ideal weight, if forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) is <50% predicted, or if on steroids >5 mg/d for >90 days/year, delayed puberty or history of fractures. Follow-up DEXA depends on results of the baseline study (117). Decreased BMD in CF, similar to that seen in adults with CP, is more likely in adolescents and adults and is probably secondary to both systemic inflammation resulting in bone reabsorption and nutritional deficiencies secondary to EPI (118). Summary 3.4: Abnormal BMD is reported in adults with CP and screening is recommended in patients with CF and selected predisposing factors. No data are available for pediatric CP. Recommendation 3.4a: Bone mineral density should be measured in children with chronic pancreatitis and malnutrition, persistently low vitamin D or history of fractures, specifically in vertebrae, hip, or wrist. 13/13 = 100% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 10 strongly agree; 3 agree; 0 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence 3.5 Complications of Chronic Pancreatitis (Exocrine Pancreatic Insufficiency and Type 3c Diabetes Mellitus) and Impact on Nutrition—Patients with CP are at risk for developing both EPI and T3cDM, although the nutritional consequences of these complications in pediatric patients with CP have not been well explored. Adult guidelines suggest that any patient with CP showing poor weight gain, nutritional deficiencies, chronic abdominal pain or steatorrhea should be tested for EPI and treated with appropriate PERT (78, 119, 120). Fecal elastase-1 (FE-1) is widely used for the diagnosis of
