HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


special interest, a recent review has emphasized the importance of monitoring, and preventing hypo- and hyperglycemia, addressing malnutrition, treating EPI and diabetes-related complications in adults with CP and T3cDM (126). No published studies exist on children with CP and T3cDM. Singh et al. reported no difference in Vitamin A and E levels between patients with CP alone compared with CP and T3cDM (127), but Quilliot et al. found lower levels in patients with CP and T3cDM (98). Both Vitamin A and E levels can be lower in the presence of steatorrhea (93, 94). In CF, recommendations for screening and treating with Vitamins A, D, E and other vitamins apply to all patients with CF regardless of EPI or diabetes status. Selenium and zinc are low in adults with CP regardless of the diabetes status, but significantly lower in patients with CP and T3cDM compared with controls (128). However, this finding could not be replicated in a similar study done by the same team (98). Quilliot et al. also showed low selenium and zinc levels and urine copper excretion correlate with diabetes status (129). In another study, serum zinc was higher in patients with CP and EPI, but not different if diabetes was present (130). Selenium has been described as low only in patients with CP and EPI (131), but a study of 7 children with only CP demonstrated low levels (107). In adults with CP and T3cDM, copper levels were not significantly different than in controls. Of note, in CF patients, recommendations for screening of trace elements and minerals are not different between CF, CF with EPI or CF with T3cDM. Summary 3.5: EPI and T3cDM are long-term risks associated with CP. Untreated EPI may result in maldigestion, malabsorption of fat and fat-soluble vitamins, nutritional deficiencies J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript and/or abdominal pain, which may all lead to poor growth. Uncontrolled diabetes in CP, likewise, may lead to poor growth and nutrition. Recommendation 3.5a: Children with chronic pancreatitis should be screened for pancreatic exocrine insufficiency every 6 to 12 months utilizing fecal elastase or 72h fecal fat collection. 12/13 = 92% agreement with recommendation. Voting results: 7 strongly agree; 5 agree; 1 neutral; 0 disagree; 0 strongly disagree GRADE 1C: Strong recommendation; low quality evidence Recommendation 3.5b: In children with chronic pancreatitis and exocrine
