HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, children, recommendation, pancreatitis, nutrition, patients, manuscript author, agree, evidence, strongly, disagree, low, acute


fat, protein and carbohydrate content on disease complications such as recurrent attacks (acute on chronic) and chronic abdominal pain • Determining the prevalence of vitamin, mineral and trace element deficiencies in children with CP • Defining adequate vitamin, mineral and trace element dosing requirements in pediatric CP • Defining potential impact of these deficiencies on disease outcomes • Determining whether children with CP are prone to low BMD • Identifying risk factors that may predispose children to osteopenia and osteoporosis. • Determining the effects of EPI and T3cDM on nutritional outcomes in children with CP • Identifying adequate pancreatic enzyme and vitamin/mineral/trace element dosing for optimal nutrition in children with CP 4. Summary Recommendations Table 1 summarizes the recommendations made by the writing group. All 29 recommendations received at least 75% support (5= strongly agree or 4= agree). Most recommendations are supported by a Grade 1C evidence: strong recommendation but low- quality evidence, and several recommendations are based on expert opinion due to the lack of medical literature. Only one recommendation, recommendation 1.1a relating to advancement of nutrition in mild acute pancreatitis, is supported by moderate-quality evidence. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 July 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 5. Concluding Remarks This document represents the first set of expert opinion recommendations on optimal nutritional management for children with AP, ARP, and CP, involving a combined international effort by NASPGHAN and ESPGHAN. Early enteral nutrition with a return to a normal fat diet appears most optimal for children along the spectrum of AP, ARP, and CP. Little to no research is published involving nutrition in children with ARP. Special attention must be directed towards children with CP, who are at risk of developing complications such as EPI and T3cDM that will further affect their nutritional status. Review of the literature revealed lack of information and data in the area of nutrition in pediatric pancreatology—a limitation that led to most recommendations being expert recommendations rather than strongly evidence-based. This clinical report should serve as basis and stimulus for future research to expand the evidence for specific nutritional interventions in children with pancreatic diseases. Acknowledgments The authorship wish to thank Dr. Martin Wakeham for his review of the acute pancreatitis section, in particular dealing with intensive care management. Funding Sources: This publication was supported by the North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and
