HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: drug, resistance, manuscript, author, author manuscript, antibiotic, model, strategy, time, therapy, manuscript author, combination, combination therapy, years, gonorrhoea


Author manuscript Lancet Microbe. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2024 February 14. Published in final edited form as: Lancet Microbe. 2023 October ; 4(10): e781–e789. doi:. Resistance-minimising strategies for introducing a novel antibiotic for gonorrhoea treatment: a mathematical modelling study Emily Reichert, Boston, MA, USA Reza Yaesoubi, USA Minttu M Rönn, MA, USA Thomas L Gift, Division of STD Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA, USA Joshua A Salomon, Yonatan H Grad Boston, MA, USA Summary Background—Gonorrhoea is a highly prevalent sexually transmitted infection and an urgent public health concern because of increasing antibiotic resistance in Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Only ceftriaxone remains as the recommended treatment in the USA. With the prospect of new anti- gonococcal antibiotics being approved, we aimed to evaluate how to deploy a new drug to maximise its clinically useful lifespan. Methods—We used a compartmental model of gonorrhoea transmission in a US population of men who have sex with men (MSM) to compare strategies for introducing a new antibiotic for gonorrhoea treatment. The MSM population was stratified into three sexual activity groups (low, intermediate, and high) characterised by annual rates of partner change. The four introduction This is an Open Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Contributors YHG conceptualised, designed, and supervised the study. ER developed the mathematical model, simulated the modelled data, and conducted the analysis. ER and YHG verified the underlying data of the study and wrote the original draft of the manuscript. All authors participated in manuscript review and editing, had full access to all the data in the study, and had final responsibility for the decision to submit for publication. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript strategies tested were: (1) random 50–50 allocation, where each treatment-seeking infected individual had a 50% probability of receiving either drug A (current drug; a ceftriaxone-like antibiotic) or drug B (a new antibiotic), effective at time 0; (2) combination therapy of both the current drug and the new antibiotic; (3) reserve strategy, by which the new antibiotic was held in reserve until the current therapy reached a 5% threshold prevalence of resistance; and (4) gradual switch, or the gradual introduction of the new drug until random 50–50 allocation was reached. The primary outcome of interest was the time until 5% prevalence of resistance to each of the drugs (the new drug and the current ceftriaxone-like antibiotic); sensitivity of the primary outcome
