HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: drug, resistance, manuscript, author, author manuscript, antibiotic, model, strategy, time, therapy, manuscript author, combination, combination therapy, years, gonorrhoea


primary outcome of interest was the time until 5% prevalence of resistance to each of the drugs (the new drug and the current ceftriaxone-like antibiotic); sensitivity of the primary outcome to the properties of the new antibiotic, specifically the probability of resistance emergence after treatment and the fitness costs of resistance, was explored. Secondary outcomes included the time to a 1% resistance threshold for each drug, as well as population-level prevalence, mean and range annual incidence, and the cumulative number of incident gonococcal infections. Findings—Under baseline model conditions, a 5% prevalence of resistance to each of drugs A and B was reached within 13·9 years with the reserve strategy, 18·2 years with the gradual switch strategy, 19·2 years with the random 50–50 allocation strategy, and 19·9 years with the combination therapy strategy. The reserve strategy was consistently inferior for mitigating antibiotic resistance under the parameter space explored and was increasingly outperformed by the other strategies as the probability of de novo resistance emergence decreased and as the fitness costs associated with resistance increased. Combination therapy tended to prolong the development of antibiotic resistance and minimise the number of annual gonococcal infections (under baseline model conditions, mean number of incident infections per year 178 641 [range 177 998–181 731] with combination therapy, 180 084 [178 011–184 405] with the reserve strategy). Interpretation—Our study argues for rapid introduction of new anti-gonococcal antibiotics, recognising that the feasibility of each strategy must incorporate cost, safety, and other practical concerns. The analyses should be revisited once robust estimates of key parameters—ie, the likelihood of emergence of resistance and fitness costs of resistance for the new antibiotic—are available. Infectious Diseases. Introduction Increasing antibiotic resistance in Neisseria gonorrhoeae poses an urgent clinical and —remains recommended by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines for empirical treatment of gonorrhoea in the USA,1 underscoring the need to develop new antibiotics to treat this highly prevalent sexually transmitted infection. Two promising, first-in-class candidates currently in phase 3 clinical trials are zoliflodacin and gepotidacin. In phase 2 trials, both demonstrated cure rates of 96% for urogenital infection; cure rates for pharyngeal infection, which has been historically harder to cure, were lower.2,3 Given the scarcity of tools remaining for gonorrhoea treatment, it is imperative to deploy new antibiotics in a way that prolongs their clinical effectiveness. Lancet Microbe. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2024 February 14. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript
