HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: drug, resistance, manuscript, author, author manuscript, antibiotic, model, strategy, time, therapy, manuscript author, combination, combination therapy, years, gonorrhoea


treatment, it is imperative to deploy new antibiotics in a way that prolongs their clinical effectiveness. Lancet Microbe. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2024 February 14. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript The question of how best to use multiple effective antibiotics with the aim of minimising population-level resistance has been explored in mathematical modelling studies considering a range of strategies: (1) random allocation of multiple drugs, (2) combination therapy, (3) holding in reserve a second-line drug until prevalence of resistance to the first-line drug reaches a defined threshold, (4) cycling treatment, and (5) targeted (directed) treatment, where a second-line drug is given only to patients who are non-responsive to the first.4-11 One pervasive finding across these studies is that antibiotic cycling, or the rotation of the antibiotic used as first-line therapy according to a set schedule, is inferior for mitigating antibiotic resistance; however, among alternative approaches the optimal strategy varies by study setting and pathogen of interest. Although one study focused specifically on gonorrhoea,11 none explored how and when to optimally introduce a new antibiotic. Historically, US guidelines for gonorrhoea treatment have followed several strategies. Multiple options enabled providers to choose antibiotics during the 1990s. Increasing resistance then led to combination therapy of ceftriaxone plus azithromycin; however, rising azithromycin resistance in 2020 prompted a return to single-drug treatment with ceftriaxone.12 The question of how to best allocate multiple antibiotics will once again become relevant if zoliflodacin, gepotidacin, or another candidate gains US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval. Therefore, this study aimed to compare the effect of introduction strategies for a novel antibiotic on resistance of N gonorrhoeae in a US population of men who have sex with men (MSM) using a mathematical model of gonorrhoea transmission. We focused on MSM as approximately a third of US cases occur within this population13 and, because of the historic appearance of resistance to antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin within this population,14 gonorrhoea transmission models characterising US MSM have been well researched.15-17 Methods Model overview We modified the susceptible–infectious–susceptible deterministic compartmental gonorrhoea transmission model described in a previous study (figure 1, appendix pp 7-10).17 Briefly, our model consisted of an MSM population stratified into three sexual activity groups (low, intermediate, and high) characterised by annual rates of partner change. Sexual activity group was fixed for each individual, but individuals from different groups interacted with mixing parameter ε. Individuals aged into and
