HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: drug, resistance, manuscript, author, author manuscript, antibiotic, model, strategy, time, therapy, manuscript author, combination, combination therapy, years, gonorrhoea


high) characterised by annual rates of partner change. Sexual activity group was fixed for each individual, but individuals from different groups interacted with mixing parameter ε. Individuals aged into and out of the sexually active population at rate ρ, contributing for 20 years on average. Infected individuals could recover spontaneously or through antibiotic treatment. For those who sought treatment, one could receive drug A (ceftriaxone-like antibiotic) or drug B (new antibiotic), or both. Infections were stratified by symptomatic (Y) versus asymptomatic (Z) status and by resistance profile, where each infection could be resistant to drug A, drug B, neither, or both. We use the term individual only to help conceptualise the movement of this population between model compartments. No ethical approval was required for this modelling study. Lancet Microbe. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2024 February 14. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Model parameterisation Model parameters were determined from the scientific literature or model calibration using maximum likelihood estimations (table 1). We calibrated our model to a beta distribution [Beta(α=59·4, β=1919·2)] with mean 3·0% gonorrhoea prevalence (variance 1·47 × 10−5) at equilibrium, based on recent estimates in MSM.13,21,22 Model simulations for calibration were run for a drug A-only model over 2 years and parameterised using the R package bbmle.23 Antimicrobial susceptibility surveillance data from the Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project informed a conservative estimate of prevalence of resistance to the ceftriaxone-like drug (0·01%) at time 0.12 Relevant properties of ceftriaxone, including the probability of de novo resistance (ωA ) and the fitness cost associated with resistance (1–f A ), were inferred from previous studies.17 We used the term drug A to emphasise that we were modelling a ceftriaxone-like drug, as its parameters are only informed estimates. All gonococcal infections were presumed susceptible to the novel antibiotic, drug B, at time 0. Baseline properties of drug B, including the probability of emergence of de novo resistance upon treatment (ωB ) and the associated fitness cost (1–f B ), were partly informed by the few data points from phase 2 clinical trials for gepotidacin and zoliflodacin. The baseline probability of de novo resistance for drug B was greater than for drug A given gepotidacin’s trial results suggesting resistance upon treatment, observed in two of 69 patients, is more common than with ceftriaxone.3 The baseline relative fitness of strains resistant to drug B was lower than for drug A, in keeping
