HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: drug, resistance, manuscript, author, author manuscript, antibiotic, model, strategy, time, therapy, manuscript author, combination, combination therapy, years, gonorrhoea


observed in two of 69 patients, is more common than with ceftriaxone.3 The baseline relative fitness of strains resistant to drug B was lower than for drug A, in keeping with reports that gyrB mutations associated with zoliflodacin resistance incur a substantial fitness cost.24 However, absolute parameter estimates were assumed and widely explored in the sensitivity analysis, partly to present results useful for any newly approved antibiotic. We assumed resistance mechanisms to drugs A and B were independent, as both zoliflodacin and gepotidacin are first-in-class candidates (of spiropyrimidinetriones and triazaacenaphthylenes, respectively) that target gyrase and topoisomerase, whereas the third-generation cephalosporin ceftriaxone targets penicillin-binding proteins.2,3 Antibiotic introduction strategies We compared four different strategies for the deployment of drug B into the population. (1) Random 50–50 allocation: each treatment-seeking infected individual has a 50% probability of receiving either drug A or drug B, effective at time 0. (2) Combination therapy: each treatment-seeking infected individual receives both drug A and drug B, effective at time 0. (3) Reserve strategy: each treatment-seeking infected individual receives drug A until a 5% prevalence of resistance is reached in the population, at which point drug B is introduced with a sigmoid growth function until it is used for 100% of presenting cases. (4) Gradual switch: each treatment-seeking infected individual receives drug A at time 0, but drug B is gradually introduced into the population until complete random 50–50 allocation is reached within 9·5 years (midpoint 4 years). A threshold of 5% resistance prevalence was used to trigger the switch from drug A to B under the reserve strategy, as this constitutes WHO’s threshold for changing treatment recommendations.25 We incorporated a gradual switch strategy into our analysis to depict Lancet Microbe. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2024 February 14. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript a more realistic introduction scenario for a first-in-class antibiotic, assuming factors such as clinician hesitancy, drug supply, and distribution issues might delay uptake. For both the reserve and gradual switch strategies, the probabilities of receiving drugs A and B (ξA , ξB ) for treatment-seeking individuals were not constant but updated throughout the model using sigmoid functions (appendix p 2). Antibiotic cycling was not considered in this analysis because of the aforementioned evidence against its benefit. Of note, the above scenarios describe only the allocation of an individual’s initial course of treatment. Symptomatic individuals prescribed a drug that was ineffective against
