HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: drug, resistance, manuscript, author, author manuscript, antibiotic, model, strategy, time, therapy, manuscript author, combination, combination therapy, years, gonorrhoea


aforementioned evidence against its benefit. Of note, the above scenarios describe only the allocation of an individual’s initial course of treatment. Symptomatic individuals prescribed a drug that was ineffective against their infection could seek retreatment at rate T with probability k , at which point they received sr s the alternative antibiotic, incorporating a targeted element into all approaches. An exception was assumed for symptomatic individuals with dual-resistant infection; these cases were retreated with a last-resort antibiotic external to our model for which we assumed complete efficacy and did not monitor resistance trends. Model implementation The base model was initialised with the equilibrium prevalence of gonorrhoea achieved via calibration (3·0%) and simulated over 40 years using the R package deSolve version 1.34.26 For the primary outcome of interest, we compared the time until each of drugs A and B among gonococcal infections. We defined this time to loss outcome (T ) by the maximum L of (1) the time to 5% resistance to drug A and (2) the time to 5% resistance to drug B. Secondary outcomes explored include the time to a 1% resistance threshold for each drug, as well as population-level prevalence, mean and range annual incidence, and the cumulative number of incident gonococcal infections. Because baseline parameters describing the properties of the novel drug B were assumed, we performed sensitivity analyses to compare strategies across a large parameter space for both the probability of resistance emergence upon treatment with drug B (ωB ), and the relative fitness of infections resistant to drug B (f ). Since parameters are not known with B certainty for drug A (ceftriaxone-like antibiotic), we reran the sensitivity analysis over 100 years exploring drug B’s properties under two alternate scenarios for drug A: (1) fitness cost for resistant strains (1–f ) increased to 0·10, and (2) the probability of de novo resistance A (ωA ) increased to 10−4. Finally, to broadly assess the effect of model parameterisation, we recalibrated the model and assessed the primary time-to-loss outcome under two alternative targets: 1·5% and 6·0% mean gonorrhoea prevalence at baseline. All code needed to run the model and produce numeric output and figures is available online. Role of the funding source The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention contributed to study design and writing of the report. The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases had no role in study design, data collection,
