HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: drug, resistance, manuscript, author, author manuscript, antibiotic, model, strategy, time, therapy, manuscript author, combination, combination therapy, years, gonorrhoea


for Disease Control and Prevention contributed to study design and writing of the report. The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases had no role in study design, data collection, data analysis, data interpretation, or writing of the report. Lancet Microbe. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2024 February 14. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Results The transmission model projected that continued monotherapy with drug A (a ceftriaxone- like antibiotic) for gonorrhoea treatment would result in a 5% prevalence of resistance warranting new empirical treatment guidelines within 6·5 years in our population (table 2; appendix p 3). Assuming introduction of the novel antibiotic B, with baseline parameters for its rate of de-novo resistance emergence and associated fitness cost, the time to loss (ie, a 5% resistance threshold) of drug A ranged from 6·5 to 19·9 years depending on the introduction 2; appendix p 3). Combination therapy maximised the time until 5% resistance was met for each of the drugs (T =19·9 years); random 50–50 allocation was a close alternative, reducing the time until L the drugs were lost to T =19·2 years (table 2; appendix p 3). By contrast, the reserve L strategy led to a faster build-up of infections resistant to drug A; a 5% prevalence of resistance to drug A was present within 6·5 years. This facilitated an earlier emergence of dual resistance and resulted in the shortest combined empirical lifespan of the drugs for the reserve strategy (T=13·9 years) relative to alternative approaches. Combination therapy also minimised the mean annual number of incident gonococcal infections up until T (table 2). Except for the reserve strategy, every strategy involving L the introduction of drug B saw dual resistant strains rise to comprise more than 99% of infections after the treatments were lost given sufficient time and no alternative antibiotics; this led to the model reequilibrating at a gonorrhoea prevalence approximately three times that at baseline (appendix p 3). Under the reserve strategy, because the overlap of drug A and drug B’s use was minimised, strains resistant to drug B only took over following T . However, if combination therapy was enacted after the loss of drug B at 13·9 years, L dual resistant strains quickly rose to make up more than 99% of infections (appendix p 3). Although the reserve strategy minimised time to loss T , it in turn maximised the incidence L of gonococcal
