HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: drug, resistance, manuscript, author, author manuscript, antibiotic, model, strategy, time, therapy, manuscript author, combination, combination therapy, years, gonorrhoea


probability A of de novo resistance (ωA ) increased to 10−4. Although absolute estimates varied, the additional time to loss of each of drugs A and B (T ) relative to that of the reserve strategy L remained positive across all introduction strategies and drug B parameterisations (appendix p 5). The time by which other strategies extended the empirical use of drugs A and B relative to the reserve strategy generally increased in magnitude as both the probability of resistance emergence and the relative fitness of resistant strains decreased. Finally, we recalibrated the model to achieve a target of 1·5% and 6·0% mean gonorrhoea prevalence at baseline (half and two times our initial assumption, respectively) and evaluated the primary time-to-loss outcome for each introduction strategy under this new model parameterisation (appendix p 6). Relative results were consistent with those previously observed. Discussion This study showed that in a model of gonorrhoea transmission in a population representative of US MSM, among strategies to introduce a new antibiotic with the aim of slowing the spread of resistance, reserving the novel antibiotic until substantial resistance to the current first-line drug has arisen is inferior to strategies that introduce the novel antibiotic earlier. The effect of introducing the novel drug once it becomes available varies depending on its parameters; as resistance to drug B becomes less likely to emerge and more costly, the reserve strategy is increasingly outperformed by alternative strategies in terms of extending the clinical effectiveness of the available antibiotics. In concordance with previous studies, no single introduction strategy for a new antibiotic targeting N gonorrhoeae proves robustly optimal in the long term.4,6,9,10 Under baseline minimised average annual infections, with random 50–50 allocation a close second. Across all parameters explored for drug B, combination therapy also minimised cumulative infections at 10 and 20 years on average. Although the eventual emergence of dual resistant gonorrhoea strains made combination therapy comparable to other strategies long term, its benefits were seen most starkly in the short term, as it delayed emergence of resistant gonococcal strains. As the probability of resistance after drug B treatment decreased, other strategies became more favourable than combination therapy in maximising the drugs’ combined lifespan. This observation indicates that if resistance acquisition is already unlikely, combination therapy loses some advantage. For example, if FDA approval Lancet Microbe. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2024 February 14. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript
