HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: drug, resistance, manuscript, author, author manuscript, antibiotic, model, strategy, time, therapy, manuscript author, combination, combination therapy, years, gonorrhoea


acquisition is already unlikely, combination therapy loses some advantage. For example, if FDA approval Lancet Microbe. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2024 February 14. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript precludes antibiotic candidates with more than 10−7 probability of resistance emergence, the random 50–50 allocation and gradual switch approaches are consistently similar or superior to combination therapy. Substantial between-strategy variation was found in the proportion of infections resistant to drug A at 10 and 20 years, despite drug A’s fixed parameters. This finding suggests that the introduction strategy used for drug B has consequences on resistance trends to drug A. Our analyses focused on the time to loss of the drugs for empirical treatment (T ). L Interpretation of results after T warrants caution. For example, the reserve strategy might L initially appear attractive (appendix p 3), as it precludes the takeover of dual resistant strains. After the loss of drug B at 13·9 years, combination therapy could be enacted to successfully treat cases resistant to drug B only, but only for a short time until dual resistance takes over. Short-term model outcomes are also more relevant than long-term projections, as new tools for gonorrhoea management and prevention (eg, rapid antimicrobial susceptibility diagnostics and vaccines) in development might affect N gonorrhoeae’s dynamics. Of note, the reserve strategy lengthened the projected time between the loss of drugs A and B; although not inherently clinically relevant, having this lag might be more palatable to medical providers than losing both drugs in rapid succession. Other factors beyond those explored here inform how to best deploy a new antibiotic. The cost of a novel therapeutic is a major factor in its use, as are safety, tolerability, allergy, mode and duration of administration, and drug-interaction concerns. Our analysis is best interpreted as an exploration of the ideal antibiotic introduction strategy for deterring resistance in N gonorrhoeae assuming that other practical concerns are not prohibitive (and keeping in mind key model limitations). For example, through exploring combination therapy, we assumed that this option is clinically safe and effective—ie, that drugs A and B have compatible pharmacokinetics, no antagonistic effects, and using a therapeutic dose of both in combination is non-toxic. The feasibility and effectiveness of combination therapy relies on these assumptions. A disparity in the pharmacokinetics of ceftriaxone and azithromycin is one hypothesis for why this combination therapy failed—azithromycin’s long elimination half-life compared with
