HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: drug, resistance, manuscript, author, author manuscript, antibiotic, model, strategy, time, therapy, manuscript author, combination, combination therapy, years, gonorrhoea


of combination therapy relies on these assumptions. A disparity in the pharmacokinetics of ceftriaxone and azithromycin is one hypothesis for why this combination therapy failed—azithromycin’s long elimination half-life compared with ceftriaxone could leave patients exposed to only a sub-inhibitory azithromycin concentration, an environment selective for resistance given recurrent gonococcal infection.27 Once cost and safety concerns are incorporated, random 50–50 allocation might be the most competitive choice as it proved only slightly less effective than combination therapy in reducing the burden of infection and resistance, on average, but is likely to minimise cost and risk of adverse events relative to combination therapy. We were further limited in our study by ignoring bystander selection, or selection for resistance caused by gonorrhoea-infected individuals receiving antibiotics for other indications. The relative importance of bystander compared to direct selection for resistance in N gonorrhoeae is still unclear, and further research is needed to clarify its extent.27 Ceftriaxone is used to treat a variety of bacterial infections; evidence that bystander selection is a major driver of N gonorrhoeae resistance would support restricting use of a novel antibiotic to gonorrhoea indications. We also did not consider the possible importation of Lancet Microbe. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2024 February 14. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript drug resistant strains to this US population from other countries with differing treatment policies. Many of the model parameters describing gonorrhoea’s natural history and transmission are impossible to measure empirically, so we estimated these values with maximum likelihood estimation, an optimisation procedure that here used a single equilibrium prevalence target for model calibration. Prevalence estimates—of gonorrhoea as well as ceftriaxone-resistant strains—are potentially underestimated because of undetected asymptomatic infections. Further, estimating multiple parameters using a single prevalence estimate for calibration suggests that individual parameters would vary under alternative calibration targets or procedures. Baseline assumptions for the characteristics of drug B were based on few phase 2 trial data for zoliflodacin and gepotidacin. Because of parameter uncertainty and our aim to present results applicable for any novel drug, we varied these parameters widely in sensitivity analysis. We also assumed no resistance to the novel antibiotic existed before its introduction, which might not be accurate. Mutations in gyrB associated with zoliflodacin resistance were found at a 0% prevalence in a large N gonorrhoeae genome database, but mutations associated with gepotidacin resistance appeared in isolates resistant to tetracycline, ciprofloxacin, and penicillin, suggesting that
