HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: drug, resistance, manuscript, author, author manuscript, antibiotic, model, strategy, time, therapy, manuscript author, combination, combination therapy, years, gonorrhoea


were found at a 0% prevalence in a large N gonorrhoeae genome database, but mutations associated with gepotidacin resistance appeared in isolates resistant to tetracycline, ciprofloxacin, and penicillin, suggesting that gepotidacin resistance might be more easily acquired in a subset of infections.28,29 Absolute estimates of the time to 5% resistance prevalence for both drugs should therefore be interpreted with caution and not extrapolated; results are best suited for relative interpretation within our population of interest, consistent with our aim of comparing the various introduction strategies. It is key to acknowledge that our model focuses specifically on the MSM population; however, trends in gonorrhoea resistance in MSM in the USA have historically been forewarnings for resistance trends in the general population.13,14 The model does not differentiate infections by anatomical site, which might be relevant given the drug B candidates’ variable efficacy in curing non-urogenital infection.2,3 We also assumed uniform screening and treatment-seeking behaviour across MSM, by symptom status. Overall, the steady accumulation of antibiotic resistance in N gonorrhoeae and rising gonorrhoea rates underscore the importance of optimising all tools that prevent and treat infection. The results here suggest reserve strategies are least optimal and favour combination therapy, although it will be important to revisit these conclusions with updated estimates of the rates of emergence of resistance and fitness cost of resistance, as well as with the effect of additional interventions as they become available. Supplementary Material Refer to Web version on PubMed Central for supplementary material. Acknowledgments This work was supported by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention Epidemiologic and Economic Modeling Agreement (grant to Lancet Microbe. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2024 February 14. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript www.niaid.nih.gov/). The findings and conclusions in this report are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the official position of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. We thank Ashleigh Tuite and colleagues for their deterministic compartmental gonorrhoea transmission model in MSM17 which was adapted for this research study. Declaration of interests YHG reports funding for this work from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC; contract 200-2016-91779) and from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID; grants R01AI132606 and R01AI153521), as well as consulting fees from GlaxoSmithKline outside the scope of the current work. MMR and JAS
