TYPECaseReport
KEYWORDS: dhakensis, pneumonia, bacteremia, patient, normal, aeromonas, patients, lung, infection, normal value, value, data, blood, china, review


Aeromonas pneumonia involve therescuetreatmentoffulminantfatalpneumoniawithDAH. alcohol and cigarette consumption (Baddour and Baselski, 1988) and our patient consumed alcohol regularly and smoked 20 Data availability statement cigarettes per day. His bad habits may leave him vulnerable to A. dhakensisinfection. According to the literature, A. dhakensis bacteremia is more The data presented in the study are deposited in the NCBI lethalthanbacteremiaduetootherAeromonasspecies(Wuetal., repository,accessionnumberPRJNA1120325. 2015;Chenetal.,2016;Zhangetal.,2023).Moreover,A.dhakensis ismorevirulentthanA.hydrophilaandanindependentmortality Ethics statement risk factor in monomicrobial Aeromonas bacteremia (Wu et al., 2015).Inthepresentstudy,thepatientdiedfromrespiratoryfailure and septic shock 13 hours postadmission despite all intensive The studies involving humans were approved by the Ethical progressive respiratory failure and high mortality rate. Hospital.Thestudieswereconductedinaccordancewiththelocal Histopathological examination showed severe hemorrhagic legislation and institutional requirements. The participants pneumonia with necrosis and numerous small gram-negative provided their written informed consent to participate in this bacteria with a remarkable inflammatory cellular reaction, which study. Written informed consent was obtained from the may suggest the virulence of this pathogen and could explain the individual(s) for the publication of any potentially identifiable rapidclinicalcourse.Thepathogenesisofsuchanextremelyrapid images or data included in this article. Written informed consent clinicalcourseremainstobefurtherclarified. wasobtainedfromtheparticipant/patient(s)forthepublicationof Pneumonia with A. dhakensis might be underreported, thiscasereport. underdiagnosed, or misdiagnosed. Many similarities in the Author contributions manifestations exist between A. dhakensis pneumonia and A. hydrophila pneumonia. A. dhakensis is often misidentified as A. hydrophila, A. veronii, or A. caviae by commercial phenotypic LJ: Conceptualization, Data curation, Funding acquisition, about misdiagnosis and non-effective treatment. Corrective editing. DL: Data curation, Methodology, Writing – review & identification of the pathogen may be of great importance for editing. JG: Data curation, Writing – review & editing. XZ: Data the successful treatment of the patients with A. dhakensis curation, Methodology, Writing – review & editing. QS: infection, which relies on molecular identification with the Methodology,Writing–review&editing.XH:Conceptualization, sequences of housekeeping genes . In this Resources,Supervision,Writing–review&editing. FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology 05 frontiersin.org Jiangetal. Funding Publisher’s note The author(s) declare financial support was received for the Allclaimsexpressedinthisarticlearesolelythoseoftheauthors PYJJ2019-207, YEZX_27). The funding bodies had no role in the claimthatmaybemadebyitsmanufacturer,isnotguaranteedor studydesign,datacollectionandanalysis,interpretationofdata,and endorsedbythepublisher. writingthemanuscript. Conflict of interest Supplementary material The authors declare that the research was conducted in the TheSupplementaryMaterialforthisarticlecanbefoundonlineat: absenceofanycommercialorfinancialrelationshipsthatcouldbe construedasapotentialconflictofinterest. full#supplementary-material
