Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


ABSTRACT It is recognized that traditional measures of glucose control (such as hemoglobin A1c [A1C]) provide little information regarding the need for day-to-day changes in therapies. While intermittent self-monitored blood glucose (SMBG) provides additional information with which to make treatment decisions, significant barriers to its use exist, such as inconvenience and lack of timely and regular feedback. Furthermore, important information regarding glucose trends may be missed. Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) has become increasingly reliable and has demonstrated efficacy in terms of improving A1C, reducing hypoglycemia, and improving the time in target glucose range. Incremental progress continues to be made toward a fully functional artificial pancreas, of which CGM will play a vital role. As more and more data are presented to patients and providers, it has become increasingly paramount that the data are organized in a standardized way and that communication of data is streamlined using patients’ mobile devices where available and within the existing clinic infrastructure. Systems that provide immediate feedback to patients and decision support tools for patients and providers have demonstrated superior outcomes compared to routine SMBG alone. Alternate markers of glucose control may provide complementary information about glucose control and long-term prognosis. This chapter will review the latest evidence for use of professional and personal CGM, mobile glucose monitoring approaches, and biomarkers of glycemic control. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The current technology for monitoring of glucose levels has been well established since the 1980′s. This practice is beneficial to patients with diabetes from both a clinical and an economic standpoint when used optimally. Knowledge of the glucose levels that are measured can allow a patient to select an appropriate dose of insulin or implement dietary or other lifestyle changes to regulate their glucose levels. Expert groups provide recommendations for glucose targets, including A1C, self-monitored blood glucose (SMBG), and interstitial glucose ( 1 , 2 ). Although targets vary, expert groups recommend individualization based upon risk of hypoglycemia, polypharmacy, comorbidities, and other characteristics that may affect long-term benefit and individual patient characteristics. The ADA has expanded recommendations for assessing overall glucose levels to include the A1C or CGM metrics such as % Time in Range (TIR, the % of time spent 70-180 mg/dl), or the Glucose Management Indicator (GMI), which is an estimate of A1C that is derived from a 14-day CGM report
