Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


in Range (TIR, the % of time spent 70-180 mg/dl), or the Glucose Management Indicator (GMI), which is an estimate of A1C that is derived from a 14-day CGM report for routine assessment of glucose levels ( 1 ). The landscape of glucose monitoring technologies is expanding and rapidly changing. For a full review of glucose monitoring technologies, the reader is referred to one of many excellent reviews referenced throughout this chapter. Several trends are emerging in glucose monitoring and will be reviewed in more detail in this chapter: CGM : This practice is becoming more widely established as evidence supporting its use has accumulated. The data available through CGM can permit significantly more fine-tuned adjustments in insulin dosing and other therapies than spot testing from self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) can provide. CGM technologies for automatic collection of data have spurred interest in noninvasive glucose monitoring as an additional tool for obtaining information about glucose levels. Closed loop control (CLC): Also known as an “artificial” or “bionic” pancreas, this technology links CGM with automatically controlled insulin delivery. The first steps toward CLC are now in use. Mobile Technology and Decision Support : In recent years, increasing connectivity between glucose monitoring technologies and mobile devices has facilitated ongoing improvements in self-care and communication of data. Alternate Markers of Glucose Control: Finally, the use of additional analytes besides glucose is still being established. This chapter analyzes the technology, benefits, and problems with the use of intermittent SMBG and CGM, mobile technology and decision support, and alternate biomarkers of glycemic control. CONTINUOUS GLUCOSE MONITORS CGM measures glucose levels (typically interstitial glucose) continuously and updates the glucose level display every 5 minutes. Most CGMs consist of 1) a monitor to display the information (in some cases, this is the patient’s mobile device), 2) a sensor that is usually inserted into the subcutaneous tissue, and 3) a transmitter that transmits the sensor data to the monitor. Previously, all devices were approved for adjunctive use only due to limitations in accuracy; in this case patients must still perform fingerstick glucose monitoring in order to guide therapy and perform calibrations. However, in 2016, the FDA approved the use of the Dexcom G5 as the first CGM for stand-alone use. Newer technologies have eliminated the requirements for calibration of CGM with a fingerstick glucose. The accuracy of all commercially available CGMs is still the lowest in the
