Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


for stand-alone use. Newer technologies have eliminated the requirements for calibration of CGM with a fingerstick glucose. The accuracy of all commercially available CGMs is still the lowest in the hypoglycemic range, which is where the need for sensitivity and specificity is great in terms of serving as an alarm for hypoglycemia. CGM can provide both retrospective as well as real-time information to detect: 1) hypoglycemic and hyperglycemic excursions; 2) predict impending hypoglycemia; and 3) wide fluctuations in glucose levels, also known as glycemic variability. 24-hour telephone support is available for all FDA approved CGM devices. Use of CGM can help both the patient and their medical provider make fine tune adjustments to medication therapy and provide insight to the patient on behavioral changes to achieve glycemic control. Additionally, current efforts to link CGM measurement with automatically controlled insulin delivery, has progressed incrementally toward a fully functional artificial pancreas. Systems can be divided according to their intended use as professional CGM (which is a clinic-owned device and provides either retrospective or real-time glucose data) and personal CGM (which is patient-owned and provides real-time glucose data). PROFESSIONAL CGM Professional CGM describes CGM data that are obtained via healthcare provider owned equipment. It does not necessarily provide the glucose results in real time, but downloads the readings after they have been collected, similar to a 24-hour cardiac Holter monitor that provides information about cardiac rhythms after they have occurred. This allows the health care provider to obtain relatively unbiased glucose patterns during typical everyday life. The Endocrine Society recommendations state that professional CGM may be of benefit in adults with diabetes to detect nocturnal hypoglycemia, dawn phenomenon, postprandial hyperglycemia and to assist in management of diabetes therapies ( 3 ). Professional CGM is more readily reimbursed than personal CGM, but interpretation of both personal and professional CGM reports by qualified healthcare professionals may be reimbursed on a monthly basis. Some personal CGM systems can be operated in a blinded fashion in order to provide professional glucose data. These systems will be discussed in more detail later (see “Personal [Real-time] Continuous Glucose Monitoring”). The first device for reading blood glucose levels continuously was a professional CGM that was approved by the FDA in June 1999. This device was the Continuous Glucose Monitor System (CGMS) manufactured by Medtronic MiniMed (Medtronic Diabetes, Northridge, CA) ( 4 ). Since then, newer models have shown improvements in
