Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


June 1999. This device was the Continuous Glucose Monitor System (CGMS) manufactured by Medtronic MiniMed (Medtronic Diabetes, Northridge, CA) ( 4 ). Since then, newer models have shown improvements in accuracy and patient acceptance. In a meta-analysis of 22 articles, professional CGM resulted in a greater reduction in A1c (-0.28%, 95% CI -0.36% to -0.21%, P < 0.00001) as well as TIR (5.59%, 95% CI 0.12 to 11.06, P = 0.05) compared to usual practice ( 5 ). FreeStyle Libre Pro The FreeStyle Libre Pro utilizes the same sensor as the Libre personal CGM. The Libre is factory calibrated and therefore does not require self-monitored blood glucose calibrations. This may be a potential advantage since capillary blood glucose testing is subject to various system and user errors, which in addition to the physiologic lag time between blood and interstitial glucose (which is magnified in the postprandial period) could contribute to CGM error. It collects up to 14 days of glucose readings, which are recorded every 15 minutes. The glucose sensor is fully disposable and a single reader is used to activate and scan multiple devices, allowing multiple patients in one office to undergo the procedure simultaneously. Reports are obtained through the LibreView website, which offers a secure cloud-based system, or the FreeStyle Libre desktop reporting software. Reports provide daily patterns, an assessment of glucose variability and hypoglycemia risk, a daily glucose report, and an overall snapshot report. The overall MARD (Mean Absolute Relative Difference which is calculated by averaging the absolute values of relative differences between CGM measurement results and corresponding comparison method results) for the FreeStyle Libre is 11.4%, 86.7% of readings were in Zone A of the Consensus Error Grid analysis, and 99.7% of results were in Zones A and B ( 6 ). It is important to note that sensor accuracy is lower on day 1 and in the hypoglycemia range (MARD 20.3% for values <72 mg/dl in one study) ( 7 ). Accuracy improves and remains steady over the 14-day wear period. The Libre utilizes glucose oxidase in a “direct signaling” approach that is not dependent on oxygen and minimizes interference by other substances, such as acetaminophen, which may falsely elevated readings on other devices. Dexcom Professional The Dexcom G6 Pro was approved by the FDA in March 2018 and is available in blinded or unblinded mode depending upon whether the goal is to observe glucose
