Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


Professional The Dexcom G6 Pro was approved by the FDA in March 2018 and is available in blinded or unblinded mode depending upon whether the goal is to observe glucose patterns without intervention, to provide immediate feedback to educate and inform patients about their medications and behaviors, or to facilitate decisions about pursuing personal CGM. The sensor, transmitter, and receiver are essentially identical to the personal Dexcom G6 system and features expedited startup time and no calibration. The device measures interstitial glucose levels every 5 minutes and is approved for 10 days of use. The device is downloaded using Dexcom CLARITY, a web-based software program that is also used to download and review personal data. Analysis of Retrospective Data Data from all CGM devices can be studied retrospectively after downloading ( 8 ). It is recommended that diet, activity, symptom, and insulin data are collected during professional CGM to assist with interpretation, either via patient diary, direct entry of events into the device, or use of an accompanying app, depending on the system. Three time periods should be analyzed. These are: Overnight : Out-of-target overnight glucose levels can be modified by adjusting the basal insulin dose. Pre-prandial Period : Out-of-target pre-prandial glucose levels can be modified by adjusting the previous meal bolus, meal, or exercise pattern. Post-prandial period : Out-of-target postprandial glucose levels can be modified by adjusting the immediate meal bolus, meal, or exercise pattern. In certain special situations, targets may need to be adjusted. Other important elements of a professional CGM analysis are shown in Table 1 . An example of a patient who used CGM is presented in Figure 1 . The CGM demonstrated high glucose levels from 6:00 PM to 11:00 PM post-supper and low glucose levels from 12:00 AM to 2AM. Recognition of these patterns allowed appropriately timed treatment interventions. Table 1. Elements of Professional Continuous Glucose Monitoring Analysis View in own window Overall Control Mean Glucose Glucose Variability (Standard Deviation, Coefficient of Variation) Daily Detail Diurnal Patterns: dawn phenomenon, overnight Meal effects Correction Exercise effects Other patterns (work days vs. weekend, menstrual cycles) Hypoglycemia Precipitating factors Corresponding meter glucose (recognition) Figure 1. CGM tracing of a patient whose glucose levels were high from 6:00 PM to 11:PM post-supper and low from 12:00 AM to 2AM. Ambulatory Glucose Profile The ambulatory glucose profile (AGP, Figure 2 ) is a standardized reporting format for glucose data
