Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


PM to 11:PM post-supper and low from 12:00 AM to 2AM. Ambulatory Glucose Profile The ambulatory glucose profile (AGP, Figure 2 ) is a standardized reporting format for glucose data that was developed by an expert panel of diabetes specialists and sponsored by the Helmsley Charitable Trust and is customized for insulin pumps or injection therapy ( 9 ). The universal report is intended to simplify and facilitate interpretation of otherwise complex and lengthy reports with varying terminology. It is anticipated that a standardized report would “help clinicians develop expertise in CGM use, enhance quality of care through enhanced pattern recognition, improve practice efficiencies with minimal disruption of workflow, and engage patients, thereby reinforcing consistent use of CGM technology.” A single page report that the medical team can view and file into a patient’s electronic medical record and that can be used as a shared decision-making tool with people with diabetes was considered to be of great value in the report of the 12th International Conference on Advanced Technologies & Treatments for Diabetes (ATTD 2019) ( 10 ). The AGP is currently employed by many reporting systems and consists of 3 components: 1. Statistical Summary, which utilizes standard metrics and terminology to summarize the number of values, percentage of values, and time in target, above target, and below target, as well as an assessment of glucose variability. 2. Modal day report which collapses data from days or weeks to a single day in order to identify patterns by time of day. Data are presented graphically as 5 distribution curves, representing the median, interquartile range, and 10 th to 90 th percentiles, on the backdrop of target range. 3. Daily View, which facilitates review of within day events. Composite Metrics As a measure of the quality of glycemia, the time in range (TIR), similar to the A1C is limited in its assessment of hypoglycemia. Multiple composite metrics have thus been reported ( 11 ). However, the use of multiple metrics increases complexity and is subject to issues with collinearity. The Glycemia Risk Index (GRI) is a composite metric that was developed using input from 330 clinical experts who analyzed 14-day tracings from 225 adults with diabetes ( 12 ). GRI more heavily weights very high or very low glucose values and correlates with clinician rankings more closely than TIR or time below range (%time < 70 mg/dl, TBR) alone. Figure 2.
