Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


heavily weights very high or very low glucose values and correlates with clinician rankings more closely than TIR or time below range (%time < 70 mg/dl, TBR) alone. Figure 2. Ambulatory Glucose Profile for Insulin Pumps. Green: lines above and below the shaded box (whiskers) show how many of the bolus dosages per hour were between 75 - 90% and between 10 - 25%. Blue: shaded box shows 50% of the bolus dosages in the hour. Orange: median (middle) dot. Bolus Insulin Graph: Combines all bolus insulin doses into one graph to make a one-day (24-hour) picture. Each box on the graph covers 60 minutes of doses. Insulin Profile Graph: Shows basal insulin pump settings over a 24-hour period. Green: 10% of values are above (90% top line) and 10% are below (10% bottom line). Blue: area between blue lines shows 50% of the glucose values. Orange: median (middle) glucose line. Glucose Profile: Daily glucose profiles are combined to make a one-day (24-hour) picture. Ideally, lines would stay within grey shaded area (target range). Glucose Statistics: Metrics include mean glucose, estimated A1C, glucose ranges, coefficient of variation and standard deviation. PERSONAL REAL-TIME CGM (RT-CGM) OR INTERMITTENTLY SCANNED CGM (IS-CGM) RT-CGM devices not only display the current glucose every few minutes, but may also alert the patient for impending (projected alert) or actual (threshold alert) hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia or rate of change in glucose. By comparison, is-CGM requires patient interaction with the device to obtain readings but may still provide alerts for hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. While few head to head studies are available, some studies suggest greater reduction in hypoglycemia and improvement in TIR with RT-CGM compared to is-CGM in persons with type 1 diabetes ( 13 , 14 ), even up to 24 months ( 15 ). Over time, accuracy with RT-CGM and is-CGM has improved substantially ( 16 , 17 , 18 ). In fact, some devices, including the Dexcom and Freestyle Libre are approved for stand-alone use, meaning that under specified conditions, the device may be used to make treatment decisions without confirmatory blood glucose measure. However, the user will still experience a tradeoff between a high alarm sensitivity and specificity for detecting hypoglycemic events, particularly where glucose levels are changing rapidly ( Figure 3 ). Current and recent glucose levels, trend information, and a visual alarm are all presented so that a patient can predict future low
