Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


levels are changing rapidly ( Figure 3 ). Current and recent glucose levels, trend information, and a visual alarm are all presented so that a patient can predict future low or high glucose excursions. Using this information will allow the patient to take actions to spend more time in the euglycemic range and less time in the hypoglycemic or hyperglycemic ranges. This potential decrease in glycemic variability will not necessarily be reflected in an improved A1C value, which reflects mean glycemic levels. Figure 3. Tradeoffs between emphasis on high sensitivity compared to emphasis on high specificity in a hypoglycemic alarm that is part of a continuous glucose monitor. Evidence- Type 1 Diabetes Studies may be divided according to background therapies (insulin pump or injection therapy). STUDIES UTILIZING EITHER INSULIN PUMP OR INJECTIONS AS BACKGROUND THERAPIES The seven-country GuardControl Study was the first randomized controlled trial to ever demonstrate a statistically significant improvement in A1C levels with the use of RT-CGM ( 19 ). The Guardian RT was used either continuously or biweekly for three months and both regimens were compared to control treatment which did not include use of CGM. At one month and at three months the continuous users had significantly lower A1C levels than the controls. The biweekly users had intermediate improvement which did not reach statistical significance compared to the outcomes in the control group. In 2008, the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation Continuous Glucose Monitoring Study Group evaluated 322 adults and children with type 1 diabetes (either injection or insulin pump therapy) and A1C 7-10% who were randomized to either RT-CGM or usual care ( 20 ). RT-CGM was associated with a 0.53% reduction in A1C compared to usual care (p<0.001), but was only significant among subjects over age 24 due to lack of consistent use in younger patients. Hypoglycemia was infrequent and was not different between groups. In 2011, 120 children and adults with type 1 diabetes on insulin pump or injection therapy and A1C <7.5% were randomly assigned to RT-CGM (Freestyle Navigator—not available in the US) or masked CGM every other week ( 21 ). The time spent in hypoglycemia was reduced over 50% at 26 weeks, and patients spent more time in 70-180 mg/dl range. In the IMPACT trial, 241 adults with type 1 diabetes with an A1C less than or equal to 7.5% were randomly assigned to Freestyle flash glucose monitoring (described in
