Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


Hypoglycemia did not differ between groups, but only short-term CGM data were available for comparison and patients with a history of severe hypoglycemia were excluded. STUDIES UTILIZING INJECTION THERAPY AS BACKGROUND In 2016, a 6-month randomized controlled trial, the DIAMOND study, compared RT-CGM (using Dexcom G4 system) versus SMBG in 158 patients with type 1 diabetes on multi-dose injection therapy and demonstrated a significantly lower A1C (between group difference 0.6%, p<0.0001), decrease in hypoglycemia (43 minutes vs. 80 minutes per day, p=0.0002) and less glucose variability with RT-CGM compared to SMBG. This study did not address hypoglycemia frequency in the two groups ( 25 ). The GOLD trial studied 161 patients with type 1 diabetes receiving multiple daily injections with either RT-CGM (Dexcom G4) or standard care in a random order cross-over trial. The mean difference in A1C was 0.43% (p<0.001), favoring RT-CGM. One subject in the CGM group compared to 5 subjects in the standard care group experienced a severe hypoglycemic event. The percentage of time spent in hypoglycemia numerically favored the CGM group but statistical analyses were not presented. There was a significant reduction in standard deviation and MAGE (measures of glucose variability). Overall well-being, diabetes treatment satisfaction, and fear of hypoglycemia improved ( 29 ). In the FLASH-UK study, 156 participants with type 1 diabetes were randomized to intermittently scanned glucose monitoring or usual care ( 30 ). The intervention group had a significantly greater reduction in HbA1 (adjusted treatment difference -0.5%, p<0.001), higher % TIR, and lower % TBR. A randomized controlled trial among 104 adults with type 1 diabetes found that intermittently scanned glucose monitoring improved A1c (estimated treatment difference 0.3% [95% CI, 0.0%-0.6%; P = 0.04) and TIR but not TBR compared to blood glucose monitoring ( 31 ). META-ANALYSES A Cochrane review and another meta-analysis found modest A1c reductions, particularly among patients who were not using insulin pumps, patients under age 18, and among patients with lower adherence ( 32 ). The results were heavily influenced by the STAR3 trial, and the JDRF study did not report a difference between pump users and patients using multiple dose injection therapy. Severe hypoglycemia rates did not differ. However, the quality of most studies was limited due to small sample size, lack of blinding, and lack of sufficient data to compare hypoglycemia rates. Meta-analyses may be hampered by the inclusion of studies with obsolete technology or
