Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


due to small sample size, lack of blinding, and lack of sufficient data to compare hypoglycemia rates. Meta-analyses may be hampered by the inclusion of studies with obsolete technology or lack of consideration for the intended use of the device in the study ( 33 , 34 ). In another meta-analysis, studies that specifically enrolled patients at risk for hypoglycemia and used blinded CGM to assess it did show improvement in hypoglycemia ( 35 ). More recently, a meta-analysis of 21 studies published between 2011-2020 encompassing 2149 individuals with type 1 diabetes revealed that CGM led to a significant reduction in A1C by 0.23% (p=0.0005), with larger treatment effect at higher baseline A1C (>8%), and no effect on severe hypoglycemia or DKA ( 36 ). However, the meta-analysis did not report CGM derived metrics such as TIR or TBR or clinically significant hypoglycemia. In a 2023 meta-analysis of 22 randomized controlled trials that included participants with type 1 diabetes, there was an overall improvement in A1c, TIR and TBR ( 37 ). Reduction in A1C was limited to nonadjunctive devices but all devices resulted in improvement in TIR. PATIENTS WITH HYPOGLYCEMIC UNAWARENESS Many older studies specifically excluded patients with a history of severe hypoglycemia or were underpowered to detect significant hypoglycemia. Recent studies have examined the use of RT- CGM in patients with hypoglycemia unawareness, which is a risk factor for severe hypoglycemia (events requiring outside assistance to treat). In the HypoCOMPaSS trial, 96 patients with a history of hypoglycemia unawareness determined by the GOLD Score of at least 4 or more were randomly assigned in a 2x2 factorial design to insulin pump or injection therapy, both with access to a bolus insulin calculator, and either RT-CGM (Medtronic Continuous Glucose Monitoring System) or SMBG. All patients had diabetes education with a goal toward hypoglycemia avoidance ( 38 ). The results demonstrated a similar reduction in severe hypoglycemia and improvement in hypoglycemia unawareness and fear of hypoglycemia without a significant treatment interaction between insulin or glucose monitoring interventions. Treatment satisfaction was higher with insulin pump compared to injection therapy but similar between RT-CGM and SMBG. The IN CONTROL trial evaluated patients with Type 1 diabetes and hypoglycemia unawareness receiving either injection or insulin pump therapy in a crossover study comparing RT-CTM (Medtronic Paradigm Veo system with a MiniLink transmitter and an Enlite glucose sensor) or SMBG ( 39 ). Hypoglycemia was
