Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


or insulin pump therapy in a crossover study comparing RT-CTM (Medtronic Paradigm Veo system with a MiniLink transmitter and an Enlite glucose sensor) or SMBG ( 39 ). Hypoglycemia was significantly reduced with RT-CGM compared to SMBG (including a 9.8% reduction in events <70 mg/dl and 44% reduction in events <40 mg/dl). Severe hypoglycemic events were significantly reduced but hypoglycemia unawareness was unchanged. In a smaller study of 52 adults with type 1 diabetes and problematic hypoglycemia, immediate randomization to CGM was more effective for preventing severe hypoglycemia (39% fewer events, p<0.05) than a dedicated hypoglycemia avoidance education program alone ( 40 ). CGM also lead to greater reduction in A1c (treatment difference -0.47%, p<0.05), but impaired awareness was restored in 31% of both groups, supporting the concept that CGM assists in earlier recognition and treatment of impending hypoglycemia as opposed to effecting fundamental change in counterregulatory responses. Differences between studies may be explained by differences in populations and the technologies utilized. In the In CONTROL study, contact with patients was less frequent, sensor use was greater (89 vs. 57% in HypoCOMPaSS) and there were no insulin adjustment protocols. Therefore, more studies are needed to understand the potential role of background therapy, other technologies, and clinical support. PATIENT REPORTED OUTCOMES Generic Quality of life scores generally do not improve with RT-CGM but treatment-specific measures, such as diabetes distress, hypoglycemic confidence, fear of hypoglycemia and to a lesser extent, measures of convenience, efficacy and performance, may be improved ( 28 , 41 , 42 ). Evidence- Type 2 Diabetes In patients with type 2 diabetes, even in patients not on insulin, RT-CGM may act as a motivator and positive influence for patients to improve lifestyle. The change in behavior can potentially lead to better glycemic control and weight loss ( 43 ). Moreover, periodic (every 3 months) short-term (14 day) use of real-time CGM may be sufficient to achieve and maintain clinically relevant improvements in A1c in this population ( 44 ). In 2012, Vigersky et al. randomized 100 patients with type 2 diabetes on basal insulin and anti-hyperglycemic agents into either a group that used real-time RT-CGM intermittently (2 weeks on, 1 week off) or a group that recorded SMBG four times per day for 12 weeks. At 12 weeks, they found a statistically significantly greater reduction in A1c by 1.0% in the CGM group compared to 0.5% reduction in
