Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


patients with type 2 diabetes on multiple injections of insulin/day, intermittently scanned CGM was associated with a reduction in acute diabetes events (HR 0.39, 95% CI 0.30-0.51) and all cause hospitalizations (HR 0.68, 95% CI 0.59-0.78) at 6 months compared to the 6 months prior to initiation ( 60 ). Recommendations Patients should be adequately informed of the benefits and limitations of this technology, particularly with respect to the role for SMBG. At a minimum, structured education programs encompassing concepts such as carbohydrate counting and active insulin time (insulin on board) should be completed prior to considering RT-CGM, and payers may require that patients demonstrate that they can reliably and consistently perform SMBG ( 61 ). Several expert groups have issued guidance in the use of RT-CGM. In 2016, the Endocrine Society, co-sponsored by The American Association for Clinical Chemistry, the American Association of Diabetes Educators, and the European Society of Endocrinology, published guidelines for use of insulin pumps and CGM. The guidelines recommended RT-CGM in adults with type 1 diabetes and any A1C who are willing and able to use the devices nearly daily. The panel suggested short-term intermittent use for patients with type 2 diabetes (not requiring prandial insulin) who had an A1C ≥7% and are willing and able to use the device ( 3 ). The American Diabetes Association (ADA) Standards of Care recommend CGM in adults with type 1 diabetes and those with hypoglycemia unawareness or frequent hypoglycemia ( Table 2a ). Among pediatric patients, the ADA notes that CGM may reduce missed school days with regular usage ( 1 ). Table 2 a. ADA 2023 Recommendations for CGM View in own window Group Recommendation (Level of Evidence) Real-time CGM Intermittently Scanned CGM Adults Youth Adults Youth MDI or CSII insulin use Should be offered (A) Should be offered (B-T1D, E-T2D) Should be offered (B) Should be offered (E- T1D) Should be used as close to daily as possible (A) Should be scanned frequently, at least every 8 hours (A) Basal insulin use A NA C NA All Devices are recommended for individuals or caregivers who can use the devices safely The choice of device should be individualized based on patient centered factors. People should have uninterrupted access to supplies to minimize gaps in monitoring (A) Periodic RT-CGM, intermittently scanned CGM, or professional CGM can be helpful where continuous use is not possible (C) Diabetes and
