Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


to assess hypoglycemia and glucose variability. Guiding management and assessing outcomes CGM should be considered for patients with type 1 diabetes and insulin treated type 2 diabetes who are not achieving targets or those with hypoglycemia. All patients should receive training education regarding how to interpret and respond to their data, utilizing standardized programs with follow-up. Performance No accepted standard exists for CGM system performance. However, a mean absolute relative difference ≤10% provides little additional benefit for insulin dosing. Definition and assessment of hypoglycemia Clinical classification Level 1: 54-70 mg/dl with or without symptoms Level 2: <54 mg/dl with or without symptoms (clinically significant) Level 3: cognitive impairment requiring external assistance for recovery Quantification using CGM % of values or time below a given threshold (54 or 70 mg/dl) Number of events (defined as CGM readings persistently below threshold for at least 15 min. with recovery defined as persistent readings over the threshold for at least 15 min.) over a given reporting period) Glycemic Variability Coefficient of Variation should be the primary measure Time in Range The % time in hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia, and target range should be reported. CGM Metrics Standardized reporting using the AGP and integration into electronic health records is recommended. Key metrics: Number of days worn (14 days recommended) % time CGM is active (70% of data from 14 days recommended) Mean glucose Glucose Management Indicator Glycemic variability (%CV, target <36%) % Time in Range (TIR): 70-180 mg/dl (3.9-10.0 mmol/L) %Time Above Range (TAR): 181-250 mg/dl (10.1-13.9 mmol/L), and >250 mg/dl (>13.9 mmol/L) %Time Below Range (TBR): 54-69 mg/dl (3.0-3.8 mmol/L), and <54 mg/dl (3.0 mmol/L) Also, in 2017 the ADA and the European Association for the Study of Diabetes published a joint statement providing recommendations for systematic improvements in clinical use and regulatory handling of CGM devices ( 64 ). Hospital Use CGM is not currently approved for use in the hospital setting. However, during the COVID-19 pandemic, the FDA announced that it would not object to their use in an effort to support reduction in use of personal protective equipment and risk of exposures to staff. Thus, there has been increasing interest in their use. Moreover, an increasing number of patients are using these devices in the ambulatory setting and want to continue their use in the hospital. Recent randomized trials support the use of CGM on the hospital wards, where it has been shown
