Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


in the ambulatory setting and want to continue their use in the hospital. Recent randomized trials support the use of CGM on the hospital wards, where it has been shown to be safe, and may reduce the frequency of hypoglycemia ( 65 , 66 ). In the ICU, there is concern that CGM may be less accurate due to factors such as edema, hypoperfusion, and acidosis but preliminary studies suggest use of CGM in conjunction with periodic point of care (POC) blood glucose (BG) within well-established protocols is safe and may reduce the need for POC BG ( 67 ). In 2020, the Diabetes Technology Society sponsored a panel of experts in inpatient diabetes management to review the evidence for us of CGM in the hospital ( 68 ). The panel agreed that CGM had the potential to improve clinical outcomes, particularly for patients who are unable to communicate signs or symptoms of hypoglycemia, but use is limited by lack of data demonstrating accuracy (particularly in the hypoglycemic range or in case of diabetic ketoacidosis, poor perfusion, or acetaminophen use) and clinical utility, and a lack of decision support systems, including infrastructure for communicating results to care teams and to the electronic medical record. The panel agreed that patients who are admitted with personal CGM devices should be allowed to continue use of such devices under the condition that they are able to self-manage the devices on their own and are followed by an endocrinologist or experienced practitioner who is specifically trained in their use. In particular, the panel advised implementing institutional policies that recommend continued capillary or blood glucose monitoring, ensuring that CGM data are not used for inpatient insulin dosing (since no CGM device is FDA approved in the inpatient setting), and requiring patients to sign safety waivers which illustrate the potential risks and benefits of continued use. Devices must be removed for any MR or CT imaging. The panel made the specific recommendations for clinical care including: Consider use of CGM to reduce exposures (such as for point of care glucose) and need for personal protective equipment in persons with highly contagious diseases. Barring use in the setting of highly contagious disease, CGM values should be confirmed with point of care (POC) glucose prior to making treatment decisions. Hospitals should develop implementation plans which include a process map, protocol, provider/staff/patient education and order sets. Providers should recognize
