Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


with point of care (POC) glucose prior to making treatment decisions. Hospitals should develop implementation plans which include a process map, protocol, provider/staff/patient education and order sets. Providers should recognize CGM pattern caused by compression of the device, which can cause a falsely low value. Providers should ensure patients are not taking medications or supplements that can interfere with CGM. Nurses should be adequately trained on use of CGM, inspect the insertion site every shift, and set expectations that POC values are still necessary to support ongoing use of CGM (typically every 6 hours). Hospitals need to develop security protocols, data storage, visualization tools, and integration within the electronic medical record to support the use of CGM. Hospitals need to identify CGM values in the electronic medical record to distinguish values from blood glucose values. Hospitals need to adopt the Unique Device Identifier (UDI) to track devices in the electronic medical record. Limitations of Use It should be emphasized that most prospective randomized controlled trials enroll highly motivated patients. In the real-world setting, there are concerns about limited resources for training, and less motivated patients may be overwhelmed with the additional data, particularly where complex algorithms are required. Nevertheless, in the Type 1 Diabetes Exchange Registry, CGM use increased from 7% in 2010-2012 to 30% in 2016-2018, and rose more than 10-fold in children ( 69 ). A1C levels were lower in CGM users compared to nonusers. While CGM use has improved substantially over time, more than half of respondents cited cost or insurance coverage as a significant barrier to use ( 70 ). Moreover, disparities in prescribing patterns and implicit bias have been described ( 71 , 72 , 73 ). Modifiable reasons for avoiding use include the hassle of devices (47%) and aversion to having a device attached to the body (35%). Skin reactions and/or difficulty with adhesion are well known and are an important cause of discontinuation ( 74 ). Methods of addressing this barrier such as use of barriers, overlay patches, or topical antihistamines and corticosteroids have been described but additional research is needed ( 75 ). In a multi-national study of 263 patients, persistent sensor use for 12 months was only 30% ( 76 ). Improvement in A1C was associated with higher A1C at baseline, older age, and more frequent sensor use. Diabetes related hospital admissions were reduced following the initiation of sensor augmented pump
