Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


Improvement in A1C was associated with higher A1C at baseline, older age, and more frequent sensor use. Diabetes related hospital admissions were reduced following the initiation of sensor augmented pump therapy and fear of hypoglycemia improved. In the 6-month follow- up phase of the JDRF-CGM trial, RT-CGM was initiated in the control group in a manner that more closely approximates clinical practice ( 77 ). Investigators found a significant reduction in CGM use in all age groups over time. However, increasing sensor use was associated with A1C reduction. It is likely that adherence will improve as technologies improve. Other limitations include possible interference with acetaminophen, ascorbate, and other active agents in glucose-oxidase based electrochemical sensors. They are also dependent on both the sensitivity and specificity on the enzyme availability on the electrode surface. There are well known delay artifacts due to the time lag between glucose concentration in the interstitial fluid and blood glucose. These time ranges, often between 5 and 10 minutes, are not crucial to analyzing retrospective data, but can be critical when CGM is indicated for real-time decision making ( 78 ). Daily Use Patients must be aware that sensor readings can deviate from actual blood glucose measurements, particularly during rapid glucose changes such as that which occurs post-meal or during exercise. Calibration, where necessary, should not be performed when trend arrows indicate rapid swings in glucose. While systems are becoming more reliable, patients may need to verify sensor readings before taking action such as meal boluses or treatment of hypoglycemia depending on the device, even if a device is approved for nonadjunctive use. Alarm thresholds should be set in order to maximize patient compliance, keeping in mind that the sensitivity for detecting hypoglycemia decreases as the threshold is reduced below 70 mg/dl. Conversely, specificity improves to a much smaller degree at lower thresholds, and thus false alarms may not be reduced substantially. Several algorithms have been published that provide specific guidance to patients for responding to trend arrows and alarms and are summarized below. All algorithms are complex and are not integrated within bolus calculators of existing insulin pumps. Therefore, they should only be implemented in patients who have demonstrated an understanding of CGM technology, including lag times between CGM and BGM, calibration procedures, alerts and trend arrows, as well as understanding of insulin action time and the risks of insulin stacking. In one small study,
