Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


lag times between CGM and BGM, calibration procedures, alerts and trend arrows, as well as understanding of insulin action time and the risks of insulin stacking. In one small study, trend arrows were accurate approximately 79% of the time outside of mealtime windows (30 minutes before and 120 min after carbohydrate intake) but this dropped to ~60% within mealtime windows ( 80 ). Thus, algorithms are not intended for use post-meal. The use of automated insulin delivery systems should increase safety and efficacy and reduce the complexity of the trend arrow approach. The algorithm by Jenkins et al. provides tiered recommendations that are based upon the meter glucose and sensor trend arrows ( 81 ). In addition, the algorithm advises patients how to review downloads of the data periodically (weekly) and make adjustments. Patients who were randomly assigned to sensor augmented pump with the algorithm had lower A1C and reported better quality of life at 16 weeks compared to patients who did not get the algorithm. The effect on quality of life persisted at the 32-week follow-up, and was associated with A1C reduction. Importantly, patients who received the algorithm at 16 weeks after initiating sensor augmented pump did not benefit. The DirecNet study algorithm (for use with the Navigator system) recommended that patients increase or decrease the meal + correction bolus by 10-20% based upon the rate of change and provided specific instructions for responding to alarms ( 82 ). Algorithm use was high in the first 3 weeks but dropped off by week 13, despite increasing insulin self- adjustments, possibly as patients became more independent over time. Subsequent methods recommended adjustment of only the correction insulin dose by the amount needed to cover a glucose level that is incrementally higher or lower than the current glucose, based upon the trend arrow ( 83 , 84 ). Klonoff and Kerr proposed a more straightforward correction dose (in 0.5-unit increments), based upon the trend arrow and the patient’s insulin sensitivity ( 85 ). A consensus statement facilitated by the Endocrine Society provides expert guidance on the use of trend arrows for making treatment decisions ( 86 ). The guidance recommends adjustment of boluses pre-meal and no sooner than 4 hours post-meal in 0.5-unit increments based upon the trend arrow and the patient’s sensitivity. The statement recommends no additional treatment within 2 hours of a previous meal bolus, and correction bolus using
