Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


in 0.5-unit increments based upon the trend arrow and the patient’s sensitivity. The statement recommends no additional treatment within 2 hours of a previous meal bolus, and correction bolus using the bolus calculator or usual correction dose only in the 4 hours after a meal. Similar expert guidance has been developed for the Freestyle Libre system ( 87 ). A more recent adaptation of the Endocrine Society guidance incorporated pre-meal glucose levels in addition to the insulin sensitivity ( 88 ) and a small randomized study demonstrated it was more effective than the incorporation of insulin sensitivity alone, particularly among insulin pump patients ( 89 ). Overview of Stand-alone Personal RT-CGM and IS-CGM Systems The first RT-CGM (Guardian, Medtronic R ) was approved in 2004. Since then, additional models and other devices have entered the market, and accuracy and patient satisfaction have improved. Several personal continuous glucose monitors have been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in the United States or carry CE marking for use in Europe and are currently on the market ( Table 5 ). For a full review of regulatory requirements for glucose monitoring devices, the reader is referred to one of several excellent reviews ( 90 ). Table 5. Comparison of Subcutaneous Continuous Glucose Monitoring Devices View in own window Calibration required Confirmatory Fingersticks required prior to treatment Real-time alerts Sensor Life (days) Warm-up (hrs) Remove for MRI, CT diathermy Acetaminophen interference Dexcom G5 Y N Y 7 2 Y Y Dexcom G6 N N Y 10 2 Y N Dexcom G7 N N Y 10 0.5 Y N Medtronic Guardian 3 Y Y Y 7 2 Y Y FreeStyle Libre 14 day N N N 14 1 Y N FreeStyle Libre 2 N N Y 14 1 Y N FreeStyle Libre 3 N N Y 14 1 Y N Eversense (surgical implant) Y N Y 180 NA Y No GUARDIAN CONNECT The Guardian Connect utilizes the Medtronic Guardian Sensor 3, the Guardian Connect transmitter, and the Guardian Connect app to transmit data via Bluetooth every 5 minutes to the user’s smart phone or device (initially only available on iOS devices) via the Guardian Connect App on smartphones and via CareLink personal and professional software. A separate receiver is not available with this system. Data can be shared with others remotely, and SMS messages can be sent in times of
