Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


CareLink personal and professional software. A separate receiver is not available with this system. Data can be shared with others remotely, and SMS messages can be sent in times of hypoglycemia. The system is only approved for adjunctive use and at least 2 daily fingerstick calibrations are required. DEXCOM G6 The Dexcom CGM utilizes a glucose oxidase sensor at the tip of a wire that is implanted in the subcutaneous space. The data are transmitted wirelessly and are displayed on a separate receiver (personal smartphone or device specific receiver). The Dexcom G6 has a sensor life of 10 days, no longer requires calibrations, and minimizes interference by acetaminophen. G6 is also associated with a smartphone app that allows the patient to log activity, set reminders or alarms, and physically see their glucose levels and trends throughout their time wearing the device. The Dexcom CLARITY Diabetes Management Software organizes and presents the patient’s blood glucose data. Dexcom SHARE app allows users to share data with up to 10 other individuals. DEXCOM G7 The Dexcom G7 features a 60% smaller size (the size of 3 stacked quarters) vs. the G6, is fully disposable, and has a shorter 30-minute warm up time and a 12-hour grace period to replace completed sensors. The overall MARD was reported to be 8.2% with the abdomen and 9.1% on the arm ( 17 ). Consistent with previous studies, accuracy is lower at lower sensor glucose, higher glucose rate of change, and on day one of wear. FREESTYLE LIBRE 14 Day The sensor utilizes Wired Enzyme™ technology in which the enzyme and mediator are co- immobilized on the sensor. It offers factory calibration, and therefore nearly eliminates the need for fingerstick monitoring. However, patients are still advised to perform SMBG whenever an alert appears on the reader display (which occurs when the glucose is rising or falling rapidly) or whenever the glucose value does not fit the patient’s symptoms. The reader contains a built-in meter for this purpose. The sensor is FDA approved for 14 days of use. The system is not approved for use in children under age 18, or during pregnancy or in persons requiring hemodialysis. The Libre has minimized the interference by acetaminophen which is present in other devices but interference from other substances such as ascorbic acid or aspirin may be possible. The Libre 14 day differs from other CGM devices in that the
