Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


present in other devices but interference from other substances such as ascorbic acid or aspirin may be possible. The Libre 14 day differs from other CGM devices in that the system does not alert the user for glucose values surpassing a high or low threshold. In addition, glucose values are not automatically made available to the user but are easily and instantly accessed by scanning the sensor with a handheld reader or the associated app FreeStyle LibreLink. However, this product may be attractive option for patients who are averse to the hassle imposed by other RT-CGM devices. Glucoses are measured every minute and recorded every 15 minutes. Data can be accessed using the reader or downloaded to LibreView cloud based online management system, or using the FreeStyle Libre desktop software. The MARD is reported by the manufacturer to be 9.7% overall, and as with other CGM devices, less accurate on day 1 of wear and in hypoglycemia range ( 91 ). FREESTYLE LIBRE 2 The FreeStyle Libre 2 system offers real-time alerts for high or low glucose values and improved accuracy, approved for ages 4 years and older ( 92 ). However, users must continue to scan the device to obtain glucose readings. Moreover, similar to the Libre 14 day, the sensor memory is only 8 hours and glucose data are lost if the sensor is scanned less frequently. FREESTYLE LIBRE 3 The FreeStyle Libre 3 is even smaller than other devices (the size of 2 stacked pennies), does not require scanning unlike older models, but does require the use of a compatible smartphone. The bluetooth range is improved from 20 to 33 feet. Accuracy is improved compared to the Libre 2, with an overall MARD of 9.2% in adults and 9.7% in children ( 16 ). EVERSENSE The Eversense system (Senseonics) is a 90-day implantable sensor that uses fluorescent technology to send measures via a rechargeable transmitter which rests just above the skin to a smartphone app titled Eversense NOW ( 93 ). In a pivotal clinical study of 71 patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes, there were no device-related serious adverse events, and the MARD was 11.1%, with over 99% of samples in clinically acceptable error zones A and B of Clarke Error Grid Analysis ( 94 ). One study reported interference with tetracycline and mannitol, but not with acetaminophen or ascorbic acid ( 95 ).
