Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


zones A and B of Clarke Error Grid Analysis ( 94 ). One study reported interference with tetracycline and mannitol, but not with acetaminophen or ascorbic acid ( 95 ). The Eversense XL CGM system consists of a 180-day implantable sensor that has been shown to have acceptable safety and accuracy with an overall MARD of 9.1% ( 96 ). This option may be particularly useful for patients with privacy concerns, physical disability, needle phobia, allergies or other difficulty with adhesion, or activities or professions that may be barriers to external wear ( 97 ). Sensor Augmented Pumps To date the largest A1C reductions have been observed when sensors are initiated with insulin pump technology. In the observational (nonrandomized) COMISAIR study, patients initiating CGM (with or without insulin pump) achieved significantly larger reductions in A1C (-1.2%) compared to subjects initiating insulin pump alone (-0.6%) or remaining on injections alone (- 0.3%) ( 98 ). There was no difference in outcomes between the DexCom G4 and Enlite sensor. A reduction in time spent in hypoglycemia was observed only in patients using CGM (8% vs 6%, p<0.001). STEPS TOWARDS AN ARTIFICIAL PANCREAS Until recently, RT-CGM technology has operated completely independently of insulin delivery. By combining continuous basal insulin delivery during fasting periods with discrete bolus doses of insulin at mealtimes, insulin delivery can be crafted to mimic the natural pattern of pancreatic insulin release. An artificial pancreas consists of: 1) an automatic and continuous glucose monitor; 2) an implanted continuous insulin delivery system; 3) a control processor to link the insulin delivery rate to the glucose level; and 4) a signal to send the glucose level to the body surface for continuous display onto a monitor. Limitations to full implementation include sensor accuracy and lag time, inadequate onset and offset of currently available rapid acting insulin analogs, meal challenges, and changes in insulin sensitivity due to circadian rhythms, exercise, menstrual cycles, and intercurrent illness ( 99 ). However, even incremental advances improve glucose control without increasing the complexity of decision-making on the part of the patient. These include: Low glucose (threshold) suspend: the insulin pump suspends when the glucose decreases below a pre-set value. Suspend before low: insulin pump suspends when hypoglycemia is predicted. Hybrid closed loop: insulin delivery increases or decreases based upon the sensor glucose value but meal boluses are still required. Closed loop control: fully closed loop delivery without
