Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


is predicted. Hybrid closed loop: insulin delivery increases or decreases based upon the sensor glucose value but meal boluses are still required. Closed loop control: fully closed loop delivery without the need for meal boluses Dual hormone systems: these are hybrid closed loop or closed loop control systems that utilize glucagon or other peptides (such as amylin) in an effort to more closely mimic the physiology of the endocrine pancreas. The long-term safety, efficacy, cost, and cost-effectiveness of an artificial pancreas are still largely unknown at this time. However, the urgency of this technology is demonstrated by the #WeAreNotWaiting movement, which has given rise to home-grown, crowd-sourced, patient driven systems that utilize existing devices which are linked by open-source software, such as Open Artificial Pancreas System , and Loop . Recently Tidepool Loop received FDA approval ( 100 ). A retrospective observational study of patients with Type 1 diabetes demonstrated lower mean glucose, higher time in target range, and less time in hypoglycemia using Open Artificial Pancreas Systems (OpenAPS) compared to sensor augmented pump use alone ( 101 ). In general, open-source systems carry safety concerns, particularly among less tech-savvy patients, in the absence of regulatory approval ( 102 ). However, the healthcare provider can provide safety recommendations as well as a back-up plan in case of system failure ( 103 ). The reader is referred to one of several reviews as a detailed review is beyond the scope of this chapter (104,105). Threshold Suspend Progress is expected toward a fully functional closed loop system in incremental steps. The first step toward a fully automated “artificial pancreas” is the low glucose suspend feature, which is now available. The Medtronic 530G system, containing the Veo insulin pump and Enlite sensor, is the first sensor augmented pump with low threshold suspend and uses the same sensor as the more recent 630G system. The Enlite sensor accuracy is significantly improved over the previous Sof-sensor R , with a MARD of 13.6% when used with the 530G ( 106 ). The Enlite is also one-third of the size of Sof-sensor and the filament is 38% shorter. The Enlite sensor may be worn up to six days. The low threshold suspend SmartGard TM technology suspends the pump for up to two hours in the event of sensor detected hypoglycemia in which the user does not respond to the alarm. Prior to suspension, a “siren” sounds
