Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


the pump for up to two hours in the event of sensor detected hypoglycemia in which the user does not respond to the alarm. Prior to suspension, a “siren” sounds which is distinct from other high or low alerts, and the suspension can be overridden at any time. The MiniMed Connect mobile accessory sends sensor data to an app on a mobile device where data can be viewed (available only with the 530G system). A study that enrolled 247 patients with type 1 diabetes and documented nocturnal hypoglycemia to sensor-augmented pump with or without a low-glucose threshold-suspend feature demonstrated similar A1C between groups at 3 months but lower frequency of nocturnal hypoglycemia ( 107 ). Similar findings were demonstrated in an Australian study of 95 patients, in which the incidence rate ratio for hypoglycemia was 3.6 (95% CI 1.7-7.5, p<0.001) ( 108 ). There were no reports of DKA in either study. Suspend Before Low The next incremental step in closed loop systems is the suspend before low feature, currently available in the Medtronic 640G (approved only in Europe) and the 670G systems. This feature automatically suspends insulin delivery 30 minutes before a low glucose threshold is predicted and resumes delivery once the glucose recovers, without alerting the patient. In a 6-month randomized study of 154 children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes, the 640G system reduced the time spent in hypoglycemia from 2.6 to 1.5% without causing a change in A1C ( 109 ). The t:slim X2 Insulin Pump incorporates Basal IQ technology with predictive low glucose suspend using the Dexcom G5 or G6 sensor. In a randomized cross-over study of 103 participants with type 1 diabetes age 6-72 years of age, predictive low glucose suspend resulted in a 31% reduction in time spent in hypoglycemia < 70 mg/dl without a change in mean glucose or time in hyperglycemia ( 110 ). Hybrid Closed Loop (HCL) This step refers to sensor glucose driven automatic adjustment of basal insulin with or without additional auto boluses, and still requires the patient to bolus for meals. In a recent consensus statement, an ideal candidate for automated insulin delivery systems ( 103 ): Is technically capable of managing a pump, has basic carbohydrate counting skills, and is able to implement a back-up plan (including the use of manual injections). Has realistic expectations of system capabilities. In particular, several situations that are unique to
