Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


counting skills, and is able to implement a back-up plan (including the use of manual injections). Has realistic expectations of system capabilities. In particular, several situations that are unique to HCL are worth emphasizing: Bolusing: pre-blousing approximately 15 minutes prior to meals is critical to maintain TIR. In many systems, delayed boluses not only cause early postmeal hyperglycemia but also precipitate delayed hypoglycemia as the system has already begun to augment insulin delivery in response to hyperglycemia. Exercise management: Similarly, carbohydrate loading prior to exercise while using HCL systems will only stimulate insulin delivery and thus is recommended that users implement other means for management such as setting a higher target, typically with a designated exercise mode, or exiting to manual mode with temporary basal insulin reduction or temporary suspension of the pump. Hypoglycemia management: HCL users typically need fewer carbohydrates (about half) to manage hypoglycemia since the pump has generally already suspended insulin delivery based upon glucose trends. Has adequate support, including diabetes education, insurance coverage, and caregiver or other social support where relevant. Has the ability to transmit data to the healthcare team. Is mentally and psychologically able to implement AID systems. On the other hand, there does not appear to be an ideal threshold A1c for determining candidates for HCL therapy, as those with lower A1c may benefit by reducing TBR and those with higher A1c benefit from reductions in hyperglycemia without the perceived risk of ketoacidosis traditionally attributed to initiation of insulin pump therapy ( 111 ). Thus, less ideal candidates may obtain the greatest benefit in terms of achieving glycemic targets. HCL demonstrates improvements in a range of glycemic outcomes and may confer psychological benefits as well. Most studies have enrolled patients with type 1 diabetes. More data are needed for special populations including type 2 diabetes, especially those with very high insulin requirements, pregnancy, acute illness, steroid use, renal dysfunction, and persons in assisted living facilities ( 112 ). As with CGM, it is important to evaluate these systems in the real-world setting, where user experience can differ from that of the highly controlled and supportive research environment. Cost and insurance hassles, as well as user wear issues are the most commonly reported barriers to use of any diabetes related device. These barriers contribute to diabetes distress and depressive symptoms which can impede self-management behaviors ( 70 , 112 ). HCL systems improve glucose
