Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


to use of any diabetes related device. These barriers contribute to diabetes distress and depressive symptoms which can impede self-management behaviors ( 70 , 112 ). HCL systems improve glucose control but may also introduce additional alarms or alerts which are needed for safety (such as threshold alerts for hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia or HCL mode exits due to insulin delivery exceeding the system’s guardrail) or ongoing functionality such as calibration of the CGM ( 113 ). Newer systems have attempted to address many of these barriers through improved algorithms or other features ( Table 6 ). Devices differ considerably with respect to algorithms used for insulin adjustment and a number of other features ( Table 6 ) ( 114 , 115 , 116 ). There are few head-to-head studies comparing the efficacy and safety of available HCL systems. Details of select systems are presented next. MEDTRONIC 670G The first system to gain FDA approval is the Medtronic 670G, which adjusts basal insulin delivery every 5 minutes when in auto mode. This system utilizes the Guardian sensor 3, which offers enhanced sensor accuracy, with an overall MARD of 9.64% ( 117 ). The system was associated with a reduction in A1C from 7.4 to 6.9% and there were trends in improvement of time in target range and hypoglycemia in a non-randomized study of 124 patients with type 1 diabetes ( 118 ). A subsequent randomized trial of 151 adults and children demonstrated a significant reduction in A1c and TBR compared to insulin pump without CGM ( 119 ). There are few studies addressing long-term use however. In a 1-year prospective observational study of 84 patients, 28% stopped using auto mode by 3 months, and 33% discontinued by 12 months ( 120 ). The most common reasons for discontinuation included sensor issues (62%) and difficulty obtaining supplies (12%), fear of hypoglycemia (12%), and preference for injections (8%) or sports (8%). In a study of 92 youth, 30% discontinued HCL, typically between 3 and 6 months after initiation, due to issues such as difficulty with calibrations, alarms, and extra time needed for operation ( 121 ). MEDTRONIC ADVANCED HYBRID CLOSED LOOP (AHCL) SYSTEM (780G) T his HCL system is approved for use in Europe and features substantially reduce frequency of alerts, improved time in auto mode, remote software updating, an adjustable target setting as low as 100 mg/dl and enable users to view
