Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


a basis. TDI=total daily insulin dose, CIR=carbohydrate to insulin ratio, AIT=active insulin time, ISF=insulin sensitivity factor. *Safety mode provides a mechanism to ensure insulin delivery in case of loss of sensor input or threshold for insulin delivery guardrail is reached. Closed Loop Systems (CLC) Additional steps toward closed loop control (CLC) insulin delivery require algorithmic insulin adjustments, which arguably present additional safety concerns. Overnight CLC insulin delivery is relatively straightforward, whereas post-meal control and exercise effects remain the most challenging of events to manage. Until recently, most randomized studies have been small and reported only short-term outcomes, often in controlled settings. ILET BIONIC PANCREAS The iLet Bionic pancreas was approved by the FDA in 2023. This insulin pump is initiated using the patient’s body weight and requires meal announcements (designated as small, medium, or large) but not formal carb counting and thus represents an incremental step toward a fully closed loop insulin pump. In A 13-week multi-center randomized study of 219 participants with type 1 diabetes demonstrated a greater reduction in A1c with the iLet bionic pancreas (-0.5%, [95% CI -0.6 to -0.3; P<0.001) but no difference in hypoglycemia compared to standard care ( 132 ). OTHER SYSTEMS Systems have utilized single hormone (rapid acting insulin only) or dual hormone (both fast- acting insulin analog and glucagon to imitate normal physiology) as directed by a computer algorithm ( Figure 4 ) ( 133 ). At this time, there are insufficient data demonstrating the superiority of one system or algorithm compared to others. The three most common algorithms are: Model Predictive Control (MPC): predicts future glucose levels and adjusts insulin delivery in response. Proportional Integral Derivative (PID): calculates the deviation of glucose from target to determine insulin delivery. Fuzzy Logic (FL): mimics insulin dosing based upon clinical expertise. A meta-analysis of 40 randomized studies (35 studies using insulin alone and 9 dual hormone studies) including 1027 participants with type 1 diabetes demonstrated a significant increase in % time in target range (70-180 mg/dl, weighted mean difference 9.6%, 95% CI 7.5-12%), as well as less time in hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia, regardless of type of system ( 134 ). In another meta-analysis of 24 studies and 585 participants (7 studies using dual-hormone therapy and 20 studies of insulin only) reported greater improvement in time in target with artificial pancreas systems (12.6%, 95% CI 9.0-16.2, p<0.0001), and greater improvement with dual hormone compared to
