Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


and 20 studies of insulin only) reported greater improvement in time in target with artificial pancreas systems (12.6%, 95% CI 9.0-16.2, p<0.0001), and greater improvement with dual hormone compared to single hormone systems ( 135 ). Another meta-analysis of studies with at least 8 weeks duration confirmed these findings ( 136 ). A systematic review and meta-analysis of 25 studies in 504 children demonstrated superior %TIR with CLC and bi-hormonal systems vs. single hormone systems ( 137 ). Figure 4. Dual hormone Closed Loop Control system. MINIMALLY INVASIVE AND NON-INVASIVE GLUCOSE MONITORS Continuous hypoglycemia detection systems using current sensing technology must be either implanted (fully or partially, either subcutaneously or into a blood vessel). Implantation is more secure, but may be associated with biocompatibility problems or local irritation. Less invasive methods may be categorized as minimally invasive or noninvasive. Minimally invasive techniques extract fluid (tears or interstitial fluid) while noninvasive technologies do not. Minimally invasive methods include electrical, nanotechnology, and optical approaches while noninvasive techniques rely on some form of radiation without the need to access bodily fluids. Noninvasive methods frequently incorporate electric, thermal, optical, or nanotechnology methods for detection. Many noninvasive devices under development are aimed for non- continuous monitoring as they often require controlled surroundings including factors such as light, motion and temperature. Optical approaches utilize reflective, absorptive, or refractive properties of infrared and optical bands of the light spectrum to detect glucose. Pure optical methods under development utilize Raman and Near infra-red spectroscopy. Thermal methods detect glucose via the far-infrared band of the spectrum and provide noninvasive approaches for glucose monitoring. Electric methods use electromagnetic radiation, currents, or ultrasound approaches to detect dielectric properties of glucose. Reverse iontophoresis has been employed with early minimally invasive approaches while bioimpedance spectroscopy has been used in recent noninvasive approaches. Nanotechnologies aim to miniaturize existing technologies, including fluorescence and surface plasmon resonance (SPR) approaches ( 138 ). Few devices (other than interstitial CGMs discussed above) have demonstrated high levels of accuracy recommended by expert groups, though several have been approved by CE or FDA ( 139 ). MOBILE TECHNOLOGY AND DECISION SUPPORT It has become increasingly clear that the isolated use of glucose monitoring technologies without a specific plan to address the data provides minimal benefit, particularly among patients with type 2 diabetes or who are not using insulin ( 140 ). In order for glucose monitoring to provide the most
