Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


the data provides minimal benefit, particularly among patients with type 2 diabetes or who are not using insulin ( 140 ). In order for glucose monitoring to provide the most benefit, patients and providers must be able to easily obtain and communicate the data. Data must be organized in such a way that patterns can be identified, and patients must receive feedback at the point of care. The widespread use of mobile devices provides opportunities for data collection, analysis, and communication of results with health care providers as well as facilitates digital or remote clinical models of care ( 141 ). Finally, as healthcare providers are inundated with more data and spend increasing amounts of time using electronic medical records, it has also become paramount that devices and or reports from the devices communicate or interface with these systems ( 142 ). Hurdles to wider implementation of mobile technology include the lack of usability (both for patients, as well as providers who may be expected to review and act upon reports), safety, efficacy (including long-term adherence), and cost-effectiveness studies ( 143 ). The lack of data is in part due to the rapidly changing technology itself, which renders the technology obsolete by the time a vigorous clinical trial is conducted and published. The fee for service model is a major barrier to adapting many glucose monitoring technologies, which often require frequent feedback and treatment adjustments, efforts that are not reimbursed without an actual office visit. Finally, cyber security is a big concern for all medical devices, especially for devices that are controlled by a smartphone ( 144 ). Device Downloading, Connectivity, and Interoperability Manual recording of glucose data is fraught with inaccuracies ( 145 ). Most monitors can be downloaded, via a tethering cable or wireless connection, either by the patient or healthcare provider. Each glucose monitoring device generally works with its own proprietary management software. However, several programs (Tidepool, Glooko/Diasend, Carelink by Medtronic, Accu-chek) are capable of downloading and organizing data for multiple different devices ( 146 ). Reports are standardized across all device downloads, facilitating efficient and actionable patient and healthcare provider review. These programs also facilitate population health and telehealth strategies (discussed below). The Nightscout Project is a crowd sourced application that provides a free mobile technology platform for patients who want to access their devices in real time on any mobile device ( 147 ). Recent
