Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


a crowd sourced application that provides a free mobile technology platform for patients who want to access their devices in real time on any mobile device ( 147 ). Recent data suggest that retrospective weekly review of data is associated with improved TIR ( 148 , 149 ) as well as patient reported outcomes including confidence in avoiding hypoglycemia, overall well-being and diabetes distress ( 150 ). Direct connectivity of blood glucose or CGM levels to cell phones or other devices not only improves data integrity but may also simplify the assimilation of glucose levels with other data such as insulin use, carbohydrate intake, and activity levels for the purpose of facilitating insulin dose adjustments in real time or retrospectively. Cell phone connectivity may also improve communication with providers. A few meters with direct cellular capability are available. Devices with direct cellular or Bluetooth connections may be paired with apps that facilitate collection, communication, and analysis of a variety of data and provide tools for education (such as nutrition information) at the point of care. Currently, both the Tandem t:slim X2 and Insulet’s Omnipod 5 System are FDA approved for remote blousing via a cell phone app ( 151 , 152 ). A regulatory pathway has been developed for alternate controller enabled (ACE) infusion pumps which can be operated in conjunction with interchangeable components, particularly CGMs ( 153 ). In 2019, the FDA approved the first such devices (Tandem t:Slim X2 and Omnipod DASH system). Diabetes Apps A variety of stand-alone smart phone applications that support glucose monitoring are also available. Most provide information and track data (usually manually entered), some allow insulin or carbohydrate documentation, facilitate carbohydrate or calorie counting, promote weight loss, track or promote physical activity, enhance medication adherence, and use motivational or self-efficacy approaches, and a few provide an insulin dosing calculator. Simple apps provide information or tracking functions while more sophisticated approaches incorporate gaming theory and machine learning approaches that learn from the user’s previous experiences to optimize interactions. Apps have shown limited magnitude and sustainability of effect due to a variety of factors, including user fatigue, require continuous data entry (e.g., most apps do not connect directly with a glucose meter), and lack of integration with the health care team. Moreover, most apps have not been evaluated by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Data privacy is also a concern, as no federal regulations
