Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


integration with the health care team. Moreover, most apps have not been evaluated by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Data privacy is also a concern, as no federal regulations currently prevent app developers from disclosing data to third parties. Most apps (81% in one survey of Android apps) do not have privacy policies, and of those that do, 49% share user data with third parties ( 154 ). Expert groups have developed policy or guidance statements to improve standardization and functionality ( 155 , 156 , 157 ). Efficacy While the data are still evolving with respect to mobile diabetes applications, several systematic reviews and meta-analyses demonstrate modest (~0.5%) reductions in A1C in persons with type 2 diabetes, especially among younger patients, apps that provide healthcare provider feedback, or had other features including wireless entry of data ( 158 , 159 , 160 , 161 ). The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality published a systematic review of comparative effectiveness studies assessing apps or programs available through a mobile device for the purpose of diabetes self-management ( 162 ). For type 1 diabetes, 6 apps were identified, 3 of which were associated with improvement in A1c, 2 of which were associated with improvement in hypoglycemia. Five apps for patients with type 2 diabetes were identified, 3 of which were associated with improvement in A1c. Efficacy is variable, in part because app features vary but also because apps are often studied as part of a multi-component intervention, making it difficult to assess individual elements, particularly the effect of additional health care provider support. Other researchers have focused on identifying standard evidence-based features that should be included in diabetes apps, such as education, glucose monitoring, and reminders ( 163 , 164 ). Usability In a systematic review of 20 studies, only one third of the 20 apps met the authors’ health literacy standards ( 165 ). Usability was measured in 7 studies through satisfaction surveys from patients and experts, and ranged from 38-80%. The most common usability problems were multi-step tasks, limited functionality, and poor system navigation. While many apps are rated high quality for performing a single task, most do not address diabetes self-management tasks comprehensively ( 166 ) or otherwise do not function properly ( 165 , 167 ). Decision Support The use of pattern management software improves health care provider efficiency and accuracy in identifying needed therapeutic adjustments
