Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


otherwise do not function properly ( 165 , 167 ). Decision Support The use of pattern management software improves health care provider efficiency and accuracy in identifying needed therapeutic adjustments ( 168 , 169 ). Software programs provide graphs or charts and may in some cases provide dosing advice, either for the healthcare provider or directly to the patient. Insulin Dosing Calculators Insulin dosing calculators have been used for years as a means of incorporating glucose measures into routine practice, largely in concert with continuous insulin infusion pumps. While numerous apps have become available for bolus insulin calculation and basal insulin titration, it is important to note that only a few have been formally evaluated and approved by regulatory agencies. In addition, many still require manual data entry, few integrate within existing electronic medical records, and published evidence for efficacy is limited ( 170 ). All approved insulin calculators or dose titration apps require a prescription or need to be set up by a healthcare provider. Many such apps operate in conjunction with connected meters and insulin pens, which are subject to regulatory oversight and long-term support ( 171 ). Such support ensures safety and that software is updated to address any problems with operation and device compatibility. The functionality of connected pens ranges from insulin tracking functions, including insulin on board calculations and reminders to smart insulin pens which feature bolus dose calculators and more advanced decision support such as dose titration and coaching features ( 172 ). A full review of insulin dosing apps is beyond the scope of this chapter. Bolus calculators are known to substantially improve dosing accuracy and glycemic control in outpatients with type 1 diabetes ( 173 , 174 , 175 ). Bolus calculators might be particularly helpful for patients with poor numeracy. A number of stand-alone smart-phone apps for bolus insulin calculation have been developed but safety and efficacy remain a concern ( 176 , 177 ). Though algorithms typically incorporate the current glucose level, active insulin time, and carbohydrate intake, some do not account for activity or illness. Applications that improve the accuracy of carbohydrate counting, which is a major source of error (regardless of educational level), are desirable ( 178 ). Reports from connected pens provide insight into missed or altered insulin doses and when integrated with CGM data can also facilitate the evaluation of timing of boluses. Likewise, basal insulin
