Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


Reports from connected pens provide insight into missed or altered insulin doses and when integrated with CGM data can also facilitate the evaluation of timing of boluses. Likewise, basal insulin calculators have been developed to recommend ongoing adjustments in therapy, either for titration or for mealtime insulin calculations. Unfortunately, efficacy and safety studies are not currently available for most apps. Most basal insulin titration apps account only for fasting glucose measures and not overnight trends. Although there are a plethora of apps available, the ultimate choice should be individualized to the needs of the patient. Those patients only needing a resource that assists with carbohydrate counting can be referred to common apps like MyFitnessPal or Calorie King. For glucose monitoring, apps that require manual entry of data should be minimized as they are not likely to be utilized long-term. Universal platforms that can download multiple devices can increase clinic efficiency. Where possible, patients should be invited to directly link with their clinic. This is particularly useful for telehealth visits. Smart insulin pens provide assistance with insulin dosing and can also be downloaded using some universal platforms. Integration within the Electronic Health Record (EHR) The major limitation of patient generated data is that it does not integrate within the EHR in a meaningful way. Some opportunities exist with the integration of Apple Health Kit and Samsung S-Health which can transmit data from a variety of apps but this process requires multiple steps and can be cumbersome ( 179 , 180 ). Recently, a consensus report from the Integration of Continuous Glucose Monitoring Data into the Electronic Health Record (iCoDE) project was published, setting standards for integration of CGM data within the EHR ( 181 ). Under these standards, data would be accessed by placing an order in the EHR. This would generate a notice to the patient via email or electronic message to obtain consent for sharing data. Once approved, standardized report is uploaded to the EHR. Importantly, none of these mobile health tools replace frequent patient contact and feedback ( 182 ). BIOMARKERS OF GLYCEMIC CONTROL Hemoglobin A1c (A1C) A1C is the best biomarker indicator of glycemic control over the past 2-3 months due to strong data predicting complications ( 1 , 2 ). In addition, the American Diabetes Association has recommended its use for the diagnosis of diabetes ( 1 ). Hemoglobin A1c refers to the nonenzymatic addition of
