Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


1 , 2 ). In addition, the American Diabetes Association has recommended its use for the diagnosis of diabetes ( 1 ). Hemoglobin A1c refers to the nonenzymatic addition of glucose to the N-terminal valine of the hemoglobin beta chain. Assays are based upon charge and structural differences between hemoglobin molecules ( 183 , 184 ). Therefore, variants in hemoglobin molecules may lead to analytic interferences. It should be noted that some homozygous hemoglobin variants (HbC or HbD, or sickle cell disease) also alter erythrocyte life span and therefore, even if the assay does not show analytic interference, other methods of monitoring glycemia should be utilized, as A1C will be falsely low. Individual assay interferences are available at the National Glycohemohemoglobin Standardization Program website: www.ngsp.org ( 185 ). Several commercial home monitoring kits are also available ( 186 ). The two reference methods used to standardize A1c levels are 1) HPLC and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry or 2) a two- dimensional approach using HPLC and capillary electrophoresis with UV-detection ( 187 ). A brief summary of assay methods is described below. HPLC methods utilize the fact that glycated hemoglobin has a lower isoelectric point and migrates faster than other hemoglobin components. As such it has variable interference with hemoglobinopathies that alter the charge of the molecule (such as HbF and carbamylated Hb), but these may be revealed through individual inspection of the chromatograms. Boronate affinity methods are based upon glucose binding to m-aminophenylboronic acid and measures glycation on the N-terminal valine on the beta chain but also glycation at other sites. There is minimal interference from hemoglobinopathies but this assay is not widely available. Immunoassays make use of antibody binding to glucose and N-terminal amino acids on the beta chain and therefore may be affected by hemoglobinopathies with structural changes at these sites, including HbF but not HbE, HbD, or carbamylated Hb. Some newer assays have attempted to correct for these interferences. Enzymatic methods lyse whole blood, releasing glycated N-terminal valines which are detected using a chromogenic reaction and are not affected by hemoglobin variants. An Organization with links to governmental regulatory agencies, the National Glycohemoglobin Standardization Program (NGSP) (< http://www.ngsp.org/news.asp >), evaluates every laboratory and home test for A1C, sets accuracy standards, and certifies which methods meet their standards ( 188 ). The trend in industry is for monitors to become increasingly more accurate and the trend in regulatory
