Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


association between A1C and retinopathy ( 202 ). Data from the ARIC study demonstrated that A1C, fructosamine, glycated albumin, and 1,5-AG were consistent with residual hyperglycemia among blacks compared to whites, and the prognostic value for incident cardiovascular disease, end stage renal disease and retinopathy were similar by race ( 203 ). It should be noted that the range of available A1C was relatively narrow in NHANES and ARIC, and further data across an expansive range is needed. In relation to CGMs, utility of A1C is further enhanced when used as a complement to glycemic data measured by CGM ( 10 ). Other biomarkers are becoming more widely used, however, A1C remains the most common biomarker. Other measures of average glycemia such as fructosamine and 1,5-anhydroglucitol are available, but their translation into average glucose levels and prognostic significance are not as clear as for A1C ( 1 ). Fructosamine A short to medium-term marker (reflecting the average glucose control over the past few weeks) may be useful for determining control over a period of days to weeks since A1C does not reflect recent changes in glucose control. Alternate markers may also be useful in patients with discrepant A1C and self-monitored blood glucose readings as well as patients with other hematologic conditions known to affect A1C. Fructosamine is a term that refers to a family of glycated serum proteins and this family is comprised primarily of albumin and to a lesser extent, globulins, and to an even lesser extent, other circulating serum proteins. No product exists for home use that measures serum fructosamine. A home blood fructosamine monitor, Duet Glucose Control System, was marketed in the early 2000′s and then withdrawn from the market. No subsequent home fructosamine test has been available since then. Randomized controlled trials have reported inconsistent effects of frequent monitoring on A1C lowering, possibly due to differences in execution of therapeutic interventions ( 204 , 205 ). Serial monitoring of short-term markers may also facilitate timely elective surgery in patients whose procedure is delayed due to an elevated A1C. In a recent study, fructosamine was a better predictor of post-operative complications in patients undergoing primary total joint arthroplasty ( 206 ). GLYCATED ALBUMIN The largest constituent of fructosamine is glycated albumin. Several investigators and companies are developing portable assays for glycated albumin to assess overall control during periods of rapidly changing glucose levels. In these situations, an
