Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


fructosamine is glycated albumin. Several investigators and companies are developing portable assays for glycated albumin to assess overall control during periods of rapidly changing glucose levels. In these situations, an A1C test may change too slowly to capture a sudden increase or decrease in mean glycemia. The components of the necessary technology appear to be in place to build a commercial instrument for home testing of glycated albumin. However, there is no randomized controlled trial showing that the measurement of glycated albumin improves outcomes. In the ARIC study, fructosamine, glycated albumin, and 1,5-AG were associated with incident diabetes, even after adjustment for baseline A1C and fasting glucose. In the ARIC study, both fructosamine and glycated albumin predicted incident retinopathy and nephropathy, even after adjusting for A1C ( 207 ). However, in adults with severe chronic kidney disease, none of the markers, including A1C, fructosamine, or glycated albumin were very highly correlated with fasting glucose, and there did not appear to be an advantage of one marker over another ( 208 ). In addition, baseline glycated albumin and fructosamine were associated with cardiovascular outcomes over a 20-year follow-up period after adjusting for other risk factors, but the overall magnitude of associations was similar to A1C ( 209 ). In the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT), glycated albumin had a similar association with retinopathy and nephropathy as A1C, but the combination of both markers provided even better prediction ( 210 ). Short-term markers are also of interest for use in pregnancy, where glucose levels are changing more quickly than can be reflected by A1C. Unfortunately, glycated albumin does not predict gestational diabetes more effectively than A1C or fasting glucose ( 211 ). However, other preliminary data suggests that glycated albumin may be a better predictor of pregnancy complications than A1C ( 212 ). 1,5-Anhyroglucitol The aforementioned biomarkers for measuring glycemic control, (A1C, fructosamine, and glycated albumin) only reflect mean levels of glycemia. These measures can fail to portray hyperglycemic excursions if they are balanced by hypoglycemic excursions. Plasma 1,5- anhydroglucitol (1,5-AG) is a naturally occurring dietary monosaccharide, with a structure similar to that of glucose ( Figure 5 ). This analyte has been proposed as a marker for postprandial hyperglycemia ( 213 ). An automated laboratory grade assay named Glycomark is approved in the U.S. for measuring 1,5-AG as a short-term marker for glycemic control. A similar laboratory assay has been
