Monitoring Technologies- Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, insulin, cgm, type, type diabetes, patients, free, monitoring, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free


213 ). An automated laboratory grade assay named Glycomark is approved in the U.S. for measuring 1,5-AG as a short-term marker for glycemic control. A similar laboratory assay has been used in Japan. During normoglycemia, 1,5-AG is maintained at constant steady-state levels because of a large body pool compared with the amount of intake and because this substance is metabolically inert. Normally, 1,5-AG is filtered and completely reabsorbed by the renal tubules. During acute hyperglycemia when the blood glucose levels exceed 180 mg/dl, which is the renal threshold for spilling glucose into the urine, serum 1,5-AG falls. This fall occurs due to competitive inhibition of renal tubular reabsorption by filtered glucose. The greater the amount of glucose in renal filtrate (due to hyperglycemia), the less 1, 5-AG is reabsorbed by the kidneys. The 1,5-AG levels respond sensitively and rapidly to rises in serum glucose and a fall in the serum level of this analyte can indicate transient elevations of serum glucose occurring over as short a period as a few days. Measurement of 1,5-AG can be useful in assessing the prior 1-2 weeks for: 1) the degree of postprandial hyperglycemia; and 2) the mean short-term level of glycemia. This assay might prove useful in assessing the extent of glycemic variability that is present in an individual with a close-to-normal A1C level, but who is suspected to be alternating between frequent periods of hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia. In such a patient, the 1,5-AG level would be low, which would indicate frequent periods of hyperglycemia, whereas in a patient with little glycemic variability, the 1,5-AG levels would not be particularly depressed because of a lack of frequent hyperglycemic periods. In the ARIC study, 1,5-AG was associated with severe hypoglycemia after adjustment for other variables, an observation which is consistent with the role of 1,5-AG in reflecting glycemic variability, a known risk factor for hypoglycemia ( 214 ). Longitudinal data from the ARIC study showed that 1,5-AG was associated with ESRD over a 19-year follow-up period, but the relationship was no longer significant after adjusting for glucose control with other markers ( 215 ). Among participants with diabetes and A1C <7%, each 5 mcg/mL decrease in 1,5-AG was associated with an increase in dementia risk by 16%, and at A1C >7%, there was also a significant association over a median 21-year follow-up period ( 216 ). There was also an association of 1,5-AG and
