Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: liver, prednisolone, dili, liver injury, injury, hepatitis, day, patient, levels, okano, immunoglobulin, case, therapy, figure, antibody


characteristics of corticosteroids are sometimes used in the treatment of DILI [7-9]. While some cases of DILI resulting from corticosteroid use have been reported [10-13], this phenomenon is rare. In this case, we identified a female patient with acute DILI associated with oral prednisolone. Case Presentation A 40-year-old woman was referred to the gastroenterology department of our hospital due to liver injury. The patient was first identified with proteinuria at the age of 23. At 25, she was referred to our nephrology department due to suspected chronic nephritis diagnosed at another clinic. Although recommended to undergo a renal biopsy for diagnosis, she opted for outpatient follow-up without biopsy at her request. Her proteinuria remained stable at around 0.5-1.0g/day. At 36, upon persuasion from her medical attendant and given the persistent proteinuria, she underwent a percutaneous renal biopsy at another specialty facility. The biopsy confirmed IgA nephropathy. Oral prednisolone was started at 30mg/day (-42 months) and later tapered to 5mg/day (Figure 1). An exacerbation of IgA nephropathy with increased urinary protein excretion was identified at 38 years old (-22 months) (Figure 1). The patient underwent tonsillectomy, and the prednisolone dose, previously maintained at 5mg/day, was increased to 30mg/day following a three-day pulse therapy of methylprednisolone sodium succinate 500mg/day. During follow-up with prednisolone at 30mg/day, her liver enzymes transiently elevated but normalized spontaneously (Figure 1). The prednisolone was tapered to 5mg every other day, and her liver enzymes remained within normal limits until her recent episode of liver injury (day 1). How to cite this article Okano H, Takagi M, Mukai K, et al. (February 15, 2024) The Possibility of Acute Drug-Induced Liver Injury Associated With Prednisolone. Cureus 16(2): e54227. DOI FIGURE 1: Clinical course before referral to the gastroenterological department. For a nephrotic syndrome derived from immunoglobulin A nephropathy, the patient had been administered low- dose oral prednisolone for a long period before the onset of liver injury. During follow-up, she was undergone tonsillectomy. The initial oral prednisolone dose for IgA nephropathy with nephrotic syndrome was 30 mg/day. This was subsequently tapered to either 5 mg/day for approximately three months (first introduction) or 5 mg every other day for approximately six months (after exacerbation). AST, aspartate aminotransferase; ALT, alanine aminotransferase. On presentation, the patient was asymptomatic. Her height was 153 cm and weight was 78.2 kg (body mass index, 33.4). The abdomen was soft and flat, without palpable masses or hepatomegaly.
