Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: liver, prednisolone, dili, liver injury, injury, hepatitis, day, patient, levels, okano, immunoglobulin, case, therapy, figure, antibody


total bilirubin; ChE, Cholinesterase; T-Chol, total cholesterol; BUN, blood urea nitrogen; UA, uric acid; Crea, Creatinine; eGFR, estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate; HBsAg; hepatitis B surface antigen; COI, cut-off index; HCVAb, anti-hepatitis C virus antibody; IgG-HBc, Immunoglobulin G antibody to the hepatitis B core antigen; IgM-HSV, Immunoglobulin M antibody to herpes simplex virus; IgM-CMV, Immunoglobulin M antibody to cytomegalovirus; IgM-EBV, Immunoglobulin M antibody to Epstein-Barr virus; EBNA, Epstein-Barr virus-nuclear antibody; IgM-HAV, Immunoglobulin M antibody to hepatitis A virus; HEV RNA, hepatitis E virus ribonucleic acid; HCVRNA, hepatitis C virus ribonucleic acid; IgG, Immunoglobulin G; IgA, Immunoglobulin A; IgM, 2024 Okano et al. Cureus 16(2): e54227. DOI 3 of 7 Immunoglobulin M; ANA, Anti-nuclear antibody; AMAM2, anti-mitochondrial antibody M2 subtype. #1: Serum ALP levels measured using the International Federation of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine (IFCC) method could be calculated as 0.34 times the ALP levels measured using the Japan Society of Clinical Chemistry (JSCC) method. FIGURE 2: Abdominal ultrasonography (US) of the liver. (a) The liver had a dull edge. (b, c) No mass was detected in the liver, and no dilatations were seen in either of the intrahepatic bile ducts or in the common bile duct. (d) The gallbladder showed no abnormalities on imaging. At the time of referral, we suspected that one or more of the patient's medications were causing the liver injury. We initially considered stopping all medications to address the liver injury but decided against stopping prednisolone due to its importance in treating IgA nephropathy and its reported utility in some cases of DILI . Although ALT levels improved after withdrawing the other suspect medications, they remained above 300 IU/L (Figure 3). AST levels continued to increase after drug cessation (Figure 3). After one month, the patient underwent an abdominal US-guided liver biopsy for differential diagnosis of the liver injury. Histopathological examination of the biopsy specimens showed centrilobular necrosis with hemorrhage (Figures 4a-4c). Fatty change of the liver was not apparent in the specimen. Additionally, a drug-induced lymphocyte-stimulation test (DLST) with prednisolone yielded positive results (Table 2). Based on these findings, liver injury was attributed to prednisolone use. Prednisolone was therefore discontinued, and AST and ALT levels returned to near-normal within one month (Figure 3). The value of T- Bil remained within normal limits during follow-up (data not shown). Due to the concern for prednisolone- induced hepatitis, all other medications except prednisolone were restarted after liver enzyme
