Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: liver, prednisolone, dili, liver injury, injury, hepatitis, day, patient, levels, okano, immunoglobulin, case, therapy, figure, antibody


of T- Bil remained within normal limits during follow-up (data not shown). Due to the concern for prednisolone- induced hepatitis, all other medications except prednisolone were restarted after liver enzyme levels normalized. Despite this, the hepatitis did not recur. Therefore, we ultimately diagnosed the patient with prednisolone-induced DILI. FIGURE 3: Clinical course after reference to the department of gastroenterology. Under continuing prednisolone administration, AST and ALT levels remained >200 IU/L. However, these values recovered lower than 50 IU/L after cessation of prednisolone. 2024 Okano et al. Cureus 16(2): e54227. DOI 4 of 7 FIGURE 4: Histological findings of the liver. (a) Hematoxylin and eosin stain, magnification x10. (b) Azan stain, magnification x10. (c) Hematoxylin and eosin stain, magnification x40. Histopathological studies showed necrosis with hemorrhage in the centrilobular zone of the liver. Fatty changes of hepatocytes were not shown. These histopathological changes were thought to be a result of drug-induced liver injury. Drug Measured value (cpm) Stimulation index (%) Judge Prednisolone 386 244 (+) Control 158 - TABLE 2: Result of drug lymphocyte stimulation test. cpm, count per minute. Considering the cessation of prednisolone, the patient is currently receiving mizoribine 100mg/day. While her liver enzyme levels remain within normal range, a switch to alternative medications may be necessary due to the estimated daily urine protein excretion of 1-2 grams and an eGFR of 30-40. Discussion DILI is a major concern for both patients and healthcare providers . Drugs are estimated to cause about 10% of all fulminant hepatitis cases in Japan and 15% to 20% of cases in Western countries . Because no specific markers or tests are generally available for DILI diagnosis, early detection during acute liver injury can be difficult . Therefore, a prudent differential diagnosis is crucial. For suspected DILI cases, careful consideration of recent comprehensive reports on the disease is essential , and causality unidentified, with estimates suggesting that only around 10% are ultimately diagnosed . Several side effects of corticosteroid therapy are well-known, particularly steatohepatitis . However, despite histopathological examination of liver biopsy specimens, we did not observe steatohepatitis in this case. Therefore, we believe that the patient's liver injury was not related to any abnormalities in fat metabolism resulting from long-term, low-dose prednisolone administration. A limited number of reports have described corticosteroid-induced liver damage, primarily following high- dose methylprednisolone therapy [10-13]. However, the present case developed liver injury during maintenance therapy with low-dose prednisolone
