Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: liver, prednisolone, dili, liver injury, injury, hepatitis, day, patient, levels, okano, immunoglobulin, case, therapy, figure, antibody


A limited number of reports have described corticosteroid-induced liver damage, primarily following high- dose methylprednisolone therapy [10-13]. However, the present case developed liver injury during maintenance therapy with low-dose prednisolone (5 mg every other day). A review of the English literature revealed no published reports of liver injury induced by low-dose oral steroids. This case may represent the first documented instance of acute DILI associated with low-dose oral prednisolone. Although the high-dose prednisolone administration approximately two years prior to hepatitis onset may be relevant to the development of acute hepatitis, the mechanisms underlying this association remain unclear. While Ueno et al. reported a link between drug-induced autoimmune-like hepatitis and hepatitis following high-dose methylprednisolone treatment, no evidence of autoimmune hepatitis was found in this case. Generally, DILI would be expected to improve after discontinuing the causative drug. However, due to the importance of various pharmacotherapies in most treatment regimens, the decision to suspend suspected 2024 Okano et al. Cureus 16(2): e54227. DOI 5 of 7 diagnosing DILI and identifying causal drugs, as permanently discontinuing a medication could worsen the underlying disease being treated. In this case, the liver injury occurred approximately 22 months after the increase in prednisolone dosage. Possible causes include contamination of the medication or the use of an undisclosed herbal or natural supplement. However, the rapid decline in liver enzyme levels following prednisolone discontinuation suggests a potential association between the medication and liver injury. Conclusions We diagnosed the present patient with suspected DILI caused by prednisolone. This case highlights the importance of considering corticosteroids as a potential cause of DILI, even though they exert immunosuppressive effects and are sometimes used to treat DILI itself. The available literature suggests that high-dose corticosteroid therapy is a potential risk factor for DILI. However, low-dose, long-term corticosteroid use may also represent another risk factor for DILI. Corticosteroid therapy is now employed for a wide range of disease categories and is commonly prescribed. Therefore, the possibility of DILI induced by prednisolone should be considered in clinical practice. Additional Information Author Contributions All authors have reviewed the final version to be published and agreed to be accountable for all aspects of the work. Concept and design: Hiroshi Okano, Katsumi Mukai, Akira Nishimura Acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data: Hiroshi Okano, Mikio Takagi, Kana Asakawa, Youichirou Baba, Tetsuya Murata Drafting of the manuscript: Hiroshi Okano, Mikio Takagi, Katsumi Mukai, Akira Nishimura, Tetsuya Murata Critical review
