Epidemiol.Infect.(2016),144,2597–2604. ©CambridgeUniversityPress2016
KEYWORDS: children, samples, patients, antigens, igm, phagocytophilum, serum, antibodies, igg, lnb, positive, immunoblot, anaplasma, specific, tick-borne


doi: Assessment of antibodies against surface and outer membrane proteins of Anaplasma phagocytophilum in Lyme borreliosis and tick-borne encephalitis paediatric patients L. KRBKOVÁ1*, L. HOMOLA1, A. HLAVÁC ˇ OVÁ1, P. MIKOLÁŠEK1, J. BEDNÁR ˇ OVÁ2 AND Z. C ˇ ERMÁKOVÁ3 3DepartmentofClinicalBiochemistry,UniversityHospital,Brno,DepartmentofLaboratoryMethods,Facultyof Medicine, MasarykUniversity, Brno, CzechRepublic Received 10 September 2015; Final revision 6 April 2016; Accepted 27 April 2016; first published online 16 May 2016 SUMMARY To examine evidence of positive antibodies against immunogenic proteins of Anaplasma phagocytophilum in patients with other tick-borne infections and to diagnose possible co- infections, 412 serum specimens were tested by immunoblotting using three specific Anaplasma antigens: surface proteins p44 and Asp62 and outer membrane protein A (OmpA). In total, 284 serum samples from children with Lyme borreliosis and 12 serum samples from children with tick-borne encephalitis were tested. Sera from patients with viral aseptic meningitis (n=47) and from blood donors (n=69) were used as controls. Among all serum specimens from patients with tick-borne infections submitted for this study, six samples (2·0%) showed positive IgM reactions and seven samples (2·4%) were IgG positive for A. phagocytophilum by immunoblot. Borderline reactivity was found in 30 samples (10·14%) for IgM and 36 samples (12·2%) for IgG. The difference between patients and blood donors was statistically significant for IgM (P=0·006) and for IgG (P=0·0007) antibodies. A statisticallysignificant result was obtained for IgG (P=0·02) but not for IgM between patients and children with aseptic meningitis. Immunoblot using three specific antigens provides novel information about the positivity of antibodies to A. phagocytophilum in children with other tick-borne infections. Taking into account clinical and laboratory findings of children despite antibody positivity, no case of human granulocytic anaplasmosis was demonstrated. Key words: Anaplasma phagocytophilum, human granulocytic anaplasmosis, Lyme borreliosis major surface proteins, outer membrane protein A, tick-borne encephalitis. INTRODUCTION previously had cycled exclusively within natural zoo- notic hosts have been identified as human pathogens. Anincreasingincidenceoftick-bornediseasesconstitu- Anaplasma phagocytophilum, as a causative agent of tes a serious medical problem. New pathogens that human granulocytic anaplasmosis (HGA), was first described in the United States in 1994 . Since 2009, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have Children’s Infectious Diseases, Faculty of Medicine and declared HGA to be a notifiable disease . New cases have been reported from several countries in Brno,CzechRepublic. (Email:) Europe, including Slovenia, Spain, Austria, Germany, 2598 L. Krbková and others TheNetherlands,Sweden,Denmark,Norway,Poland, patients with other tick-borne diseases using Western Croatia and Latvia .
