Epidemiol.Infect.(2016),144,2597–2604. ©CambridgeUniversityPress2016
KEYWORDS: children, samples, patients, antigens, igm, phagocytophilum, serum, antibodies, igg, lnb, positive, immunoblot, anaplasma, specific, tick-borne


reported from several countries in Brno,CzechRepublic. (Email:) Europe, including Slovenia, Spain, Austria, Germany, 2598 L. Krbková and others TheNetherlands,Sweden,Denmark,Norway,Poland, patients with other tick-borne diseases using Western Croatia and Latvia . The first confirmed case of blot and in the case of positive results to search for HGA in Europe was described in Slovenia , and possible co-infections. the first paediatric case, in an 11-year-old girl, also in Slovenia.MostcasesofHGAhavebeencontracted PATIENTS AND METHODS ingeographicalregionsthatareendemicforLymebor- reliosis(LB)andtick-borneencephalitis(TBE).Ixodes Altogether, 412 serum samples (284 serum samples ricinus, I. scapularis, and I. persulcatus are the arthro- from children with LB, 12 serum samples from chil- pod hosts for the causative agents of LB and TBE as dren with TBE and 116 controls) were tested by well as for HGA. immunoblot using three specific antigens derived A. phagocytophilum is an obligate, intracellular from A. phagocytophilum. Gram-negative bacterium that infects granulocytes Serum samples were selected retrospectively from and causes a non-specific febrile illness. The usual clin- 296 children with tick-borne infections (2–18 years) icalsignsandsymptomsincludefever,chills,headache, and 47 children with aseptic meningitis (AM) as con- andgeneralizedmyalgia.Anaplasmosisisassociated trols (2–18 years) who had been admitted to the with suggestive changes in routine laboratory test Department of Children’s Infectious Diseases at the in total leukocyte and platelet concentrations. 2002 to 2014. Archived serum samples were stored Characteristic intracytoplasmatic morulae are observed at−20°Cuntilusedinthisstudy.Onlyserumsamples in peripheral blood granulocytes. Inflammatory mark- obtained prior to antibiotic treatment were used. At ers, such as C-reactive protein and the erythrocyte the time of sampling, no IFA testing was required sedimentation rate, rise during the fever period. Serum with the exception of three samples, where there was ment with doxycycline for 10–l4 days is effective, and possible to perform IFA tests and Anaplasma PCR administration of macrolides can bring about recov- for all samples due to small amount of material. ery in children aged <8 years . Whole blood is required for PCR detection. The clinical diagnosismaybeconfirmed byspecific All children with Lyme neuroborreliosis (LNB) (n laboratory tests, which include polymerase chain re- =138) fulfilled three criteria for the diagnosis as action (PCR) or cultivation. The examination of recommended in several guidelines: clinical signs and bloodsmearsforintracytoplasmicmorulaeisnotasen- symptoms consistent with neuroborreliosis, lympho- sitive approach for laboratory diagnosis, even in cytic pleocytosis (mononuclear cell count >5/μl) in PCR-positive or culture-positive patients. Serological cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and intrathecally synthe- testsarenotstandardized.Indirectimmunofluorescence sized IgM/IgG antibodies (antibody index >1·4) [12, assay(IFA)isperformedtoaccessfourfoldincreasesin 13]. Children diagnosed with TBE (n=12) had
