Epidemiol.Infect.(2016),144,2597–2604. ©CambridgeUniversityPress2016
KEYWORDS: children, samples, patients, antigens, igm, phagocytophilum, serum, antibodies, igg, lnb, positive, immunoblot, anaplasma, specific, tick-borne


immunoblot assay in Differences in the detection of positively reacting 10·8% of adult patients with suspected LB . In the antibodies against three specific Anaplasma antigens tick vector collected from humans, the prevalence of between the TBE group of children with tick-borne A. phagocytophilum is 1·5% in Prague parks, Czech infectionsandblooddonorswerefoundtobestatistic- Republic. Ticks collected by flagging were infected by ally significant (IgM: P=0·006; IgG: P=0·0007) Anaplasma in 11·8% of samples . based on pooled borderline and positive values. A NostudytodatehasdemonstratedantibodiestoA. significantly higher number of A. phagocytophilum- phagocytophilum in children with proven tick-borne reactive sera in the patient group compared to the infections in the Czech Republic. To examine this AMgroupofchildrenin IgGclassmaybeduetoan- more closely, children with diagnoses of LNB, LA amnestic antibodies. This finding probably reflects and TBE were selected for serological evaluation of previous asymptomatic A. phagocytophilum infection. antibodies. LNB in children is usually an early disse- ItisgenerallyknownthatIgMantibodiestoA.phago- minated disease with IgM/IgG antibody response to cytophilum are less specific than IgG antibodies and B. burgdorferi, while LA is a late-disseminated infec- result in more false positives. Higher frequency of tion accompanied by a strong IgG response [13, 22– IgM antibodies were observed in LB patients vs. 24]. TBE in children is an acute AM/encephalitis blood donors in Southern Germany . with a maximum incubation period of 3 weeks after IndatafromSwitzerland,thehighestprevalenceof atickbite,similartoHGA.Threechildrendiagnosed A. phagocytophilum antibodies occurred in people asTBEweresuspectedofHGAinthefebrilephaseof who were seropositive for B. burgdorferi (13%) and the illness. Their laboratory findings showed leuko- TBEV (20%) . In Slovenia, where all three infec- penia, thrombocytopenia and elevated liver enzymes. tions are endemic, the healthy population of children Similar laboratory abnormalities were found in TBE and young adults was assessed for the presence of patients . Immunoblot test with three specific antibodies to B. burgdorferi, A. phagocytophilum and Immunoreactivity in tick-borne diseases 2603 TBEV. An identical percentage of antibodies (15·4%) with erythema migrans. The total number of clinical to A. phagocytophilum and B. burgdorferi, respective- symptoms did not differ between patients with HGA ly, was detected . aloneandthosewhowereco-infected.Noinformation TocompareourresultswithsimilarEuropeanstud- about disseminated LB is given in that study . ies is problematical even if only immunoblot is used. In order to identify possible co-infection with LB, Enrolment criteria for patients are not identical and TBE and HGA, antibodies to A. phagocytophilum several antigens are used in commercially available wereexaminedbyimmunoblotusingthreespecificanti- immunoblots. Serological evidence of HGA infection gens. The present study investigating archived serum investigated
