Epidemiol.Infect.(2016),144,2597–2604. ©CambridgeUniversityPress2016
KEYWORDS: children, samples, patients, antigens, igm, phagocytophilum, serum, antibodies, igg, lnb, positive, immunoblot, anaplasma, specific, tick-borne


and TBE and HGA, antibodies to A. phagocytophilum several antigens are used in commercially available wereexaminedbyimmunoblotusingthreespecificanti- immunoblots. Serological evidence of HGA infection gens. The present study investigating archived serum investigated by IFA in LB patients (n=43) has been samples of 296 children and 116 controls was limited confirmedinoneindividual(2·3%)withpreviousneu- by an insufficient amount of sera to perform IFA and roborreliosisinastudyfromnorthernSpain.Ina immunoblot simultaneously. However, immunoblot is study by Lebech et al., antibodies to Ehrlichia equi generallythoughttoprovidemoredetailedinformation (now renamed A. phagocytophilum) were assayed by than IFA . No paired samples were available IFA in the sera of 132 patients with LNB. for performing seroconversion or antibody rise titre. Reactivity was found in five patients (3·8%) of Another disadvantage is the retrospective review of andmyalgiacompatiblewiththeprobablecasedefini- tion could not be obtained, e.g. unrelated antibiotic tion of HGA . Our results correlate with the last treatment during the last 3 months. twomentionedstudiesofpatientswithprovenLB,al- The emerging pathogen infection anaplasmosis though different tests were used. caused by A. phagocytophilum has become a notifiable Anassessmentofcut-offvalueandassayvalidation disease in the Czech Republic, as elsewhere in Europe. is part of the development of the new assay. There is Asshowninthisstudy,co-infectionwithA.phagocyto- never a clear border between negative and positive philuminchildrenwithothertick-bornediseaseshasnot results and cut-off range helps to achieve balance be- beenprovenbyimmunoblotwiththreespecificantigens tweenD-SPandD-SN.Ithastobetakenintoaccount derived from A. phagocytophilum. The diagnosis of that the cut-off range for tested immunoblot assay is HGA is currently based on PCR testing or on investi- exactly defined between 5·5% and 13%. The values gating paired serum samples by IFA. To differentiate falling between the cut-off range are classified as bor- an on-going infection from previous exposure to A. derline, and would require testing by a confirmatory phagocytophilum, IgM and IgG antibodies tested by assay or retesting. immunoblot with specific antigens could be used. SerumsamplesfrompatientswithHGAcross-react The results of this study have shown a small num- with E. chaffeensis, E. ewingii and Orientia tsutsuga- ber of positive Anaplasma antibodies in children dorferi has been recognized to occur in patients with testing for HGA in children diagnosed with these responsetoA.phagocytophilum.Positivereaction two tick-borne infections even in tick-infested areas. to A. phagocytophilum in IgM was present in three More prospective studies comparing IFA, immuno- samples of children with LA and in three samples of blot and PCR detection of A. phagocytophilum are children with LNB, but the reaction was negative if neededinchildrenwithtick-borneinfections.Thesen- tested against Borrelia antigens in IgM. We conclude sitivity and specificity of the new immunoblot with
