Thoracic Aortic Aneurysms
KEYWORDS: aneurysms, aortic, thoracic, taas, aorta, aneurysm, rupture, thoracic aortic, aortic aneurysms, ascending, chest, compression, diameter, pain, size


A thoracic aortic diameter ≥ 50% larger than normal is considered an aneurysm (normal diameter varies by location). Most thoracic aortic aneurysms do not cause symptoms, although some patients have chest or back pain; other symptoms and signs are usually the result of complications (eg, dissection, compression of adjacent structures, thromboembolism, rupture). Risk of rupture is proportional to the size of the aneurysm. Diagnosis is made by CT angiography or transesophageal echocardiography (TEE). Treatment is endovascular stent grafting or surgery. Thoracic aortic aneurysms (TAAs) are abnormal dilatations of the aorta above the diaphragm. TAAs account for one-fourth of aortic aneurysms. Males and females are affected equally. Locations of TAAs (1) include Ascending thoracic aorta (between the aortic root and brachiocephalic, or innominate, artery): 46% Aortic arch (including the brachiocephalic, carotid, and subclavian arteries): 21% Descending thoracic aorta (distal to the left subclavian artery): 35% Complications Complications of TAAs include Aortic dissection Compression or erosion into adjacent structures Leak or rupture Thromboembolism Aneurysms of the ascending aorta sometimes affect the aortic root, causing aortic valve regurgitation, or occlusion of the coronary arterial ostia, causing angina, myocardial infarction, or syncope. Etiology of Thoracic Aortic Aneurysms Most thoracic aortic aneurysms result from Atherosclerosis Risk factors for both thoracic aortic aneurysms and aortic dissections include prolonged hypertension, dyslipidemia, and smoking. Additional risk factors for TAAs include presence of aneurysms elsewhere in the body, infection, aortitis, and older age (peak incidence at age 65 to 70 years). Congenital connective tissue disorders (eg, Marfan syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, Loeys-Dietz syndrome) cause cystic medial necrosis, a degenerative change that leads to TAAs complicated by aortic dissection and by widening of the proximal aorta and aortic valve (annuloaortic ectasia), which causes aortic regurgitation. Marfan syndrome causes 50% of cases of annuloaortic ectasia, but cystic medial necrosis and its complications can occur in young people even if no congenital connective tissue disorder is present. Infected (mycotic) TAAs result from hematogenous spread of systemic or local infections (eg, sepsis, pneumonia), lymphangitic spread (eg, tuberculosis), or direct extension (eg, in osteomyelitis or pericarditis). Bacterial endocarditis and tertiary syphilis are uncommon causes. TAAs occur in some vasculitic disorders (eg, giant cell arteritis, Takayasu arteritis, granulomatosis with polyangiitis). Blunt chest trauma can cause a pseudoaneurysm (false aneurysm) due to injury to the aortic wall resulting in a communication between the arterial lumen and overlying connective tissue and blood leaking outside the confines of the
