Thoracic Aortic Aneurysms
KEYWORDS: aneurysms, aortic, thoracic, taas, aorta, aneurysm, rupture, thoracic aortic, aortic aneurysms, ascending, chest, compression, diameter, pain, size


pseudoaneurysm (false aneurysm) due to injury to the aortic wall resulting in a communication between the arterial lumen and overlying connective tissue and blood leaking outside the confines of the aorta; a blood-filled cavity forms outside the vessel wall and seals the leak as it thromboses). Symptoms and Signs of Thoracic Aortic Aneurysms Most thoracic aortic aneurysms are asymptomatic until complications (eg, thromboembolism, rupture, aortic regurgitation, dissection) develop. However, compression of adjacent structures can cause back pain (due to compression of vertebra), cough or wheezing (due to compression of the tracheobronchial tree), dysphagia (due to esophageal compression), hoarseness (due to left recurrent laryngeal or vagus nerve compression), chest pain (due to coronary artery compression), and superior vena cava syndrome (due to compression of the central veins or superior vena cava). Erosion of aneurysms into the lungs causes hemoptysis or pneumonitis; erosion into the esophagus (aortoesophageal fistula) causes massive hematemesis. Dissection manifests with tearing chest pain, often radiating to the back between the shoulder blades. Thromboembolism may cause stroke, abdominal pain (due to mesenteric ischemia), or extremity pain. Ruptured TAA that is not immediately fatal manifests with severe chest or back pain and hypotension or shock. Exsanguination due to rupture most commonly occurs into the pleural or pericardial space. Additional signs include Horner syndrome (miosis, ptosis, anhidrosis) due to compression of sympathetic ganglia, palpable downward pull of the trachea with each cardiac contraction (tracheal tug), and tracheal deviation. Visible or palpable chest wall pulsations, occasionally more prominent than the left ventricular apical impulse, are unusual but may occur. Syphilitic aneurysms of the aortic root classically lead to aortic regurgitation and inflammatory stenosis of the coronary artery ostia, which may manifest as chest pain due to myocardial ischemia. Syphilitic aneurysms do not dissect. Diagnosis of Thoracic Aortic Aneurysms Incidental radiograph finding Confirmation by CT angiography (CTA), magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), or transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) Thoracic aortic aneurysms are usually first suspected when a chest radiograph incidentally shows a widened mediastinum or enlargement of the aortic knob. However, chest radiography has poor sensitivity for TAA and is not a reliable diagnostic tool (eg, in patients with chest pain and suspected aortic aneurysm). Chest radiograph abnormalities or symptoms and signs suggesting an aneurysm should be followed up with a cross-sectional imaging test; choice among these tests is based on availability and local experience (1). If rupture is suspected, TEE (for ascending dissection) or CTA,
