Thoracic Aortic Aneurysms
KEYWORDS: aneurysms, aortic, thoracic, taas, aorta, aneurysm, rupture, thoracic aortic, aortic aneurysms, ascending, chest, compression, diameter, pain, size


be followed up with a cross-sectional imaging test; choice among these tests is based on availability and local experience (1). If rupture is suspected, TEE (for ascending dissection) or CTA, depending on availability, should be done immediately. Chest CTA can delineate aneurysm size and proximal or distal extent, detect leakage, and identify coincidental pathology. MRA may provide similar detail. Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) can delineate aneurysm size and extent and detect leakage of aneurysms of the ascending but not descending aorta. TEE cannot show the entire thoracic aorta, but it can be extremely useful in detecting the entry point in aortic dissection. Contrast angiography provides the best image of the arterial lumen, but it is not the preferred imaging study. It gives no information on extraluminal structures (ie, as an alternative diagnosis), it is invasive, and it has a significant risk of renal and extremity atheroembolism and contrast nephropathy. Aortic root dilation or unexplained ascending aorta aneurysms warrant serologic testing for syphilis. If a mycotic aneurysm is suspected, bacterial and fungal blood cultures are done. Treatment of Thoracic Aortic Aneurysms Control of hypertension and other comorbidities Endovascular stent grafting or open surgical repair Immediate control of hypertension is essential. Medical management with optimal control of hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes, and respiratory disease is the appropriate treatment until surgery is indicated. Treatment is endovascular stent grafting when anatomically possible and open surgical repair for more complex aneurysms. Ruptured TAAs, if untreated, are universally fatal. They require immediate intervention, as do leaking aneurysms and those that cause acute dissection or acute valvular regurgitation. Transcatheter-placed endovascular stent grafts (endografts) for descending TAAs and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms (TAAAs) are a less invasive alternative to open surgery. Surgery involves a median sternotomy (for ascending and aortic arch aneurysms) or left thoracotomy or thoracoretroperitoneal exposure (for descending and TAAs) and replacement with a synthetic graft. With emergency open surgery, the mortality rate at 1 month is approximately 30 to 50% (1). Patients who survive have a high incidence of serious complications (eg, renal failure, respiratory failure, severe neurologic damage). Elective surgery is indicated for aneurysms that are Large Rapidly enlarging (> 0.5 cm/year) Causing bronchial compression Causing aortobronchial or aortoesophageal fistulas Symptomatic Traumatic Mycotic Aneurysms of the ascending aorta are generally considered large if the diameter is > 5.5 cm or twice the native size of the ascending aorta or if the aortic size index (aortic diameter in
