Thoracic Aortic Aneurysms
KEYWORDS: aneurysms, aortic, thoracic, taas, aorta, aneurysm, rupture, thoracic aortic, aortic aneurysms, ascending, chest, compression, diameter, pain, size


aorta are generally considered large if the diameter is > 5.5 cm or twice the native size of the ascending aorta or if the aortic size index (aortic diameter in relation to body surface 2 area) is ≥ 2.75 cm/m . In the descending aorta, aneurysms are generally considered large if they are > 6 cm. In patients with Marfan syndrome, large aneurysms are those that are ≥ 4.5 to 5 cm in any location. Treatment of mycotic aneurysms is aggressive antimicrobial therapy directed at the specific pathogen. Generally, these aneurysms must also be surgically repaired. Although open surgical repair of an intact TAA improves outcome, mortality rate may still exceed 7% at 30 days (2). The mortality rate is lower with endovascular stent grafts, although life-long surveillance is still required (3). Risk of death increases greatly if aneurysms are complicated (eg, located in the aortic arch or thoracoabdominal aorta) or if patients are older or have coronary artery disease, symptoms, or preexisting renal insufficiency. Perioperative complications (eg, stroke, spinal injury, acute renal failure) occur in about 10 to 20% (4). Asymptomatic aneurysms that do not meet criteria for elective surgical or endovascular repair are treated with aggressive blood pressure control using a beta-blocker and other antihypertensives if necessary. Smoking cessation is essential. Dyslipidemia, diabetes, and respiratory diseases should all be treated. Patients require frequent follow-ups to check for symptoms and serial CT or ultrasound every 6 to 12 months. Imaging frequency depends on aneurysm size. Prognosis for Thoracic Aortic Aneurysms Thoracic abdominal aneurysms enlarge an average of 3 to 5 mm/year. Risk factors for rapid enlargement include larger size of aneurysm, location in the descending aorta, and presence of mural thrombi. The risk of rupture appears to rise abruptly as TAAs reach 6 cm in diameter. Median diameter at aneurysm rupture is approximately 6 cm for ascending aneurysms and 7 cm for descending aneurysms (1, 2); smaller aneurysms also may rupture, especially in patients with connective tissue disorders or saccular aneurysms. Survival rate of patients with untreated large TAAs is 25% at 2 years. TAA rupture has a mortality of 97% (3). Key Points Thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) is a ≥ 50% increase in diameter of the thoracic aorta. TAAs may dissect, compress, or erode into adjacent structures, cause thromboembolism, leak, or rupture. Median diameter at aneurysm rupture is 6 cm for ascending aneurysms and 7 cm for descending
