The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


the soil. The mountainous regions of Europe, the Northern Indian Subcontinent, the extensive mountain ranges of China, the Andean region in South America and the lesser ranges of Africa are all iodine deficient. Also, the Ganges Valley in India, the Irawaddy Valley in Burma, and the Songkala valley in Northern China are also areas of endemic iodine deficiency. Iodine deficiency in populations residing in these areas will persist until iodine enters the food chain through addition of iodine to foods (e.g. iodization of salt) or dietary diversification introduces foods produced in iodine-sufficient areas. DIETARY SOURCES OF IODINE The native iodine content of most foods and beverages is low, and most commonly consumed foods provide 3 to 80 µg per serving (3-7). Major dietary sources of iodine in the USA, Europe and Australia are bread, milk and to a lesser extent seafood (3,4). Based on direct food analysis, mean intake of dietary iodine is ≈140 µg/day in Switzerland and 100-180 µg/day in Libya (3,6). Boiling, baking, and canning of foods containing iodised salt cause only small losses (of foods contain(8). Iodine content in foods is also influenced by iodine-containing compounds used in irrigation, fertilizers, and livestock feed. Iodophors, used for cleaning milk cans and teats in the dairy industry, can increase the native iodine content of dairy products through contamination of iodine containing residues (9); there are few data on the bioavailability of iodine or potential health risks from these iodophors. Traditionally, iodate was used in bread making as a dough conditioner, but it is being replaced by non-iodine-containing conditioners. Recommendations for daily iodine intake by age group are shown in Table 1 . Table 1 Recommendations for iodine intake (µg/day) by age or population group View in own window Age or population group a U.S. Institute of Medicine (ref.5) Age or population group c World Health Organization (ref.1) Infants 0–12 months b 110-130 Children 0-5 years 90 Children 1-8 years 90 Children 6-12 years 120 Children 9-13 years 120 Adults n 9-13 yea 150 Adults >12 years 150 Pregnancy 220 Pregnancy 250 Lactation 290 Lactation 250 a Recommended Daily Allowance. b Adequate Intake. c Recommended Nutrient Intake. IODINE DEFICIENCY IN ANIMAL MODELS Studies in rats have been carried out using the diet consumed by the people of Jixian village in China (10-13). This village was severely iodine deficient with 11% prevalence of endemic cretinism. The diet included available main crops
