The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


the diet consumed by the people of Jixian village in China (10-13). This village was severely iodine deficient with 11% prevalence of endemic cretinism. The diet included available main crops (maize, wheat), vegetables, and water from the area with an iodine content of 4.5 µg/kg. After the dam had received the diet for 4 months, there was obvious neonatal goiter, fetal serum T4 was 3.6 µg/L compared to controls of 10.4 µg/L and they had higher 125I uptake and reduced brain weights. The density of brain cells was increased in the cerebral hemispheres. The cerebellum showed delayed disappearance of the external granular layer with reduced incorporation of 3H leucine in comparison to the control group. Other more detailed studies have been carried out on the number and distribution of dendritic spines along the apical shaft of the pyramidal cells of the cerebral cortex of the rat (14). These dendritic spines can be accurately measured and have been studied in relation to both iodine deficiency and hypothyroidism. Their appearance and development reflects the formation of synaptic contacts with afferents from other neurons. In normal rats there is a progressive increase in the number of spines from 10 to 80 days of age. These studies have demonstrated a significant effect of an iodine deficient diet on the number and distribution of the spines on the pyramidal cells of the visual cortex. This effect is similar to that of thyroidectomy. More detailed studies following thyroidectomy indicated the importance of the timing of the procedure. If carried out before the 10th day of life, recovery is unlikely to occur unless there is immediate replacement with L-T4. At 40 or 70 days, replacement can restore a normal distribution of spines even if there is a 30 day delay in its initiation. These differences confirm the need for early treatment of congenital hypothyroidism and prevention of iodine deficiency in the newborn infant in order to prevent brain damage and mental retardation. Severe iodine deficiency has been produced in the marmoset (Callithrix Jacchus Jacchus) with a mixed diet of maize (60%), peas (15%), torula yeast (10%) and dried iodine deficient mutton (10%). The newborn iodine-deficient marmosets showed some sparsity of hair growth (15). The thyroid gland was enlarged with gross reduction in plasma T4 in both mothers and newborns, and was greater in the second pregnancy than in the first, suggesting a greater severity of iodine deficiency.
