The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


enlarged with gross reduction in plasma T4 in both mothers and newborns, and was greater in the second pregnancy than in the first, suggesting a greater severity of iodine deficiency. There was a significant reduction in brain weight in the newborns from the second pregnancy, but not from the first. The findings were more striking in the cerebellum with reduction in weight and cell number evident and histological changes indicating impaired cell acquisition. These findings demonstrate the significant effects of iodine deficiency on the primate brain. Severe iodine deficiency has been produced in sheep (16) with a low-iodine diet of crushed maize and pelleted pea pollard (8-15 ug iodine/kg) which provided 5-8 ug iodine per day for sheep weighing 40-50 kg. The iodine deficient fetuses at 140 days were grossly different in physical appearance in comparison to the control fetuses. There was reduced weight, absence of wool growth, goiter, varying degrees of subluxation of the foot joints, and deformation of the skull. (Fig. 2) There was also delayed bone maturation as indicated by delayed appearance of epiphyses in the limbs (17). Goiter was evident from 70 days in the iodine-deficient fetuses and thyroid histology revealed hyperplasia from 56 days gestation, associated with a reduction in fetal thyroid iodine content and reduced plasma T4 values. There was a lowered brain weight and DNA content as early as 70 days, indicating a reduction in cell number probably due to delayed neuroblast multiplication which normally occurs from 40-80 days in the sheep. Findings in the cerebellum were similar to those already described in marmoset (16). A single intramuscular injection of iodized oil (1 ml = 480 mg iodine) given to the iodine deficient mother at 100 days gestation was followed by partial restoration of the lambs’ brain weight and body weight with restoration of maternal and fetal plasma T4 values to normal (16). Studies of the mechanisms involved revealed significant effects of fetal thyroidectomy in late gestation and a significant effect of maternal thyroidectomy on brain development mid gestation. The combination of maternal thyroidectomy (carried out 6 weeks before pregnancy) and fetal thyroidectomy produced more severe effects than that of iodine deficiency, and was associated with greater reduction in both maternal and fetal thyroid hormone levels (17). These findings in animal models confirm the importance of both maternal and fetal thyroid hormones in fetal brain development. IODINE DEFICIENCY IN THE HUMAN LIFE CYCLE
