The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


thyroid hormone levels (17). These findings in animal models confirm the importance of both maternal and fetal thyroid hormones in fetal brain development. IODINE DEFICIENCY IN THE HUMAN LIFE CYCLE The term IDD refers to all the ill-effects of iodine deficiency in a population that can be prevented by ensuring that the population has an adequate intake of iodine (1). These effects are listed in Table 2 . Brain damage and irreversible mental retardation are the most important disorders induced by iodine deficiency: in 1990 it was estimated that among the 1572 million people in the world exposed to iodine deficiency (28.9 % of the then world population), 11.2 million were affected by overt cretinism, the most extreme form of mental retardation due to iodine deficiency and that another 43 million people were affected by some degree of itellectual impairment (18). Thus, iodine deficiency was a leading global cause of preventable mental impairment. Table 2 The spectrum of iodine deficiency disorders, IDD (ref.1). View in own window Fetus Miscarriage Stillbirths Congenital anomalies Increased perinatal morbidity and mortality Endemic cretinism Neonate Neonatal goiter Neonatal hypothyroidism Endemic neurocognitive impairment Increased susceptibility of the thyroid gland to nuclear radiation Child and adolescent Goiter (Subclinical) hypothyroidism Impaired mental function Retarded physical development Increased susceptibility of the thyroid gland to nuclear radiation Adult Goiter with its complications Hypothyroidism Impaired mental function Spontaneous hyperthyroidism in the elderly Iodine-induced hyperthyroidism Increased susceptibility of the thyroid gland to nuclear radiation Iodine Deficiency In Pregnancy Iodine deficiency in the fetus is the result of iodine deficiency in the mother. The consequence of iodine deficiency during pregnancy is impaired synthesis of thyroid hormones by the mother and the fetus. An insufficient supply of thyroid hormones to the developing brain may result in neurocognitive impairment (19-25). The physiologic role of thyroid hormones is to ensure that normal growth and development occurs through specific effects on the rate of cell differentiation and gene expression. Thyroid hormone action is exerted through the binding of T3 to nuclear receptors which regulate the expression of specific genes in different brain regions during fetal and early postnatal life. The T3 which is bound to the nuclear receptors is primarily dependent on its local intracellular production from T4 via type II deiodinase and not from circulating T3. Brain Development In Humans Figure 1 shows the time course of the development of the brain and of thyroid function
