The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


T4 via type II deiodinase and not from circulating T3. Brain Development In Humans Figure 1 shows the time course of the development of the brain and of thyroid function in the human fetus and neonate. Brain growth is characterized by two periods of maximal growth velocity (26). The first one occurs during the first and second trimesters between the third and the fifth months of gestation. This phase corresponds to neuronal multiplication, migration and organization. The second phase takes place from the third trimester onwards up to the second and third years postnatally. It corresponds to glial cell multiplication, migration and myelinization. The first phase occurs before fetal thyroid has reached its functional capacity. During this phase, the supply of thyroid hormones to the growing fetus is almost exclusively of maternal origin while during the second phase, the supply of thyroid hormones to the fetus is essentially, but not solely, of fetal origin (27). Figure 1 Ontogenesis of thyroid function and regulation in humans during fetal and early postnatal life in relation to the velocity of brain growth. From Delange and Fisher (ref.28). In humans, T4 can be found in the first trimester coelomic fluid from 6 weeks of gestational age, long before the onset of secretion of T4 by the fetal thyroid, which occurs at the 24th week of gestation (29). Nuclear T3 receptors and the amount of T3 bound to these receptors increases six to tenfold between 10 and 16 weeks (30). The T4 and T3 found in early human fetuses up to mid gestation are likely to be entirely or mostly of maternal origin. As a consequence, infants born to women with hypothyroxinemia at 12 weeks gestation (fT4 concentrations; <10th percentile) had lower developmental scores (31). In addition, substantial amounts of T4 are transferred from mother to fetus during late gestation (32). The deiodinases are involved in the action of thyroid hormones in the brain, especially deiodinase D3 that is found in the uterine implantation site and in the placenta, producing rT3 from T4 and 3’,5’-T2 from T3 and thus having a protective effect to avoid an excess of thyroid hormone reaching the fetus. Severe Iodine Deficiency in Pregnancy: Cretinism and Increased Fetal and Perinatal Mortality The most serious adverse effect of iodine deficiency is damage to the fetus. Iodine treatment of pregnant women in areas of severe deficiency reduces fetal and perinatal mortality and improves
