The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


The most serious adverse effect of iodine deficiency is damage to the fetus. Iodine treatment of pregnant women in areas of severe deficiency reduces fetal and perinatal mortality and improves motor and cognitive performance of the offspring. Severe iodine deficiency in utero causes a condition characterized by gross mental retardation along with varying degrees of short stature, deaf mutism, and spasticity that is termed cretinism. These disorders are described in detail below. Mild-To-Moderate Deficiency in Pregnancy The potential adverse effects of mild-to-moderate iodine deficiency during pregnancy in humans are unclear (33). Observational studies have shown associations between both mild maternal iodine deficiency and mild maternal thyroid hypofunction and decreased child cognition (33). In Europe, several randomized controlled trials of iodine supplementation in mild-to-moderately iodine deficient pregnant women have been done, and iodine reduced maternal and newborn thyroid size, and, in some, decreased maternal TSH; however, none of the trials showed an effect on maternal and newborn total or free thyroid hormone concentrations (33). No data are yet available from randomized placebo-controlled trials in regions of mild to moderate iodine insufficiency on the relation between maternal iodine supplementation and neurobehavioral development in the offspring (33). Iodine Deficiency in the Neonate An increased perinatal mortality due to iodine deficiency has been shown in Zaire from the results of a controlled trial of iodized oil injections alternating with a control injection given in the latter half of pregnancy (34). There was a substantial fall in infant mortality with improved birth weight following the iodized oil injection. Low birth weight of any cause is generally associated with a higher rate of congenital anomalies and higher risk through childhood. This has been demonstrated in the longer term follow up of the controlled trial in Papua New Guinea in children up to the age of 12 years (35) and in Indonesia (36). A reduction of infant mortality has also been reported from China following iodine supplementation of irrigation water in areas of severe iodine deficiency. Iodine replacement has probably been an important factor in the national decrease in infant mortality in China (37). Apart from mortality, the importance of thyroid function in the neonate relates to the fact that the brain of the human infant at birth has only reached about one third of its full size and continues to grow rapidly until the end of the second year (38). Thyroid hormone, dependent on an adequate
