The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


The incidence of permanent congenital hypothyroidism was very similar in the four cities but the rate of transient hypothyroidism was much greater in Freiburg, associated with the lowest level of urine iodine excretion, than in Stockholm, with intermediate findings from Rome and Brussels. In developing countries with more severe iodine deficiency, observations have now been made using blood taken from the umbilical vein just after birth. Neonatal chemical hypothyroidism was defined by serum levels of T4 lesser than 3 ug/dl and TSH greater than 100 mIU/L). In the most severely iodine deficient environments in Northern India, where more than 50% of the population has urinary iodine levels below 25 ug per gram creatinine, the incidence of neonatal hypothyroidism was 75 to 115 per thousand births (40). By contrast in Delhi, where only mild iodine deficiency is present with low prevalence of goiter and no cretinism, the incidence drops to 6 per thousand. In control areas without goiter the level was only one per thousand. There is similar evidence from neonatal observations in neonates in Zaire in Africa where a rate of 10% of biochemical hypothyroidism has been found (41). This hypothyroidism persists into infancy and childhood if the deficiency is not corrected, and results in retardation of physical and mental development (42). These observations indicate a much greater risk of mental impairment in severely iodine deficient populations than is indicated by the presence of cretinism. Another important aspect of iodine deficiency in the neonate and child is an increased susceptibility of the thyroid gland to radioactive fall-out. Thyroidal uptake of radioiodine reached its maximum value in the earliest years of life and then declined progressively into adult life (43). The apparent thyroidal iodine turnover rate was much higher in young infants than in adults and decreased progressively with age. In order to provide the normal rate of T4 secretion, Delange (43) estimated the turnover rate for intrathyroidal iodine must be 25-30 times higher in young infants than in adolescents and adults. In iodine deficiency a further increase in turnover rate is required to maintain normal thyroid hormone levels. This is the reason for the greatly increased susceptibility of the neonate and fetus to iodine deficiency. Iodine deficiency also causes an increased uptake of the radioiodide resulting from nuclear radiation. Protection against this increased uptake can be provided by correction of iodine deficiency. Iodine Deficiency in the Child There is cross-sectional
