The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


increased uptake of the radioiodide resulting from nuclear radiation. Protection against this increased uptake can be provided by correction of iodine deficiency. Iodine Deficiency in the Child There is cross-sectional evidence that impairment of thyroid function evidenced in mothers and neonates in conditions of mild-to-moderate iodine deficiency affects the intellectual development of their offspring. Aghini-Lombardi et al. (44) reported that in children aged 6-10 years in an area in Tuscany who had mild iodine deficiency (64 μg iodine/day), the reaction time was delayed compared with matched controls from an iodine sufficient area (142 μg iodine/day). The cognitive abilities of the children were not affected. Similarly, it was reported that in an area of Southern Spain with mild iodine deficiency (median urinary iodine of 90 μg/L), the intelligence quotient (IQ) was significantly higher in children with urinary iodine levels above 100 μg/L (45). A recent randomized controlled study in Albania in a moderately iodine deficient area showed that information processing, fine motor skill and visual problem solving significantly improved in school-children after iodine repletion of the population (46). In a randomized, placebo-controlled, trial in mildly-deficient New Zealand children aged 10-13 y, children were randomly assigned to receive a daily tablet containing either 150 μg iodine or placebo for 28 wk (47). At the end of the trial, the overall cognitive score of the iodine-supplemented group was 0.19 SDs higher than that of the placebo group (P<0.02). These controlled trials suggest that mild to moderate iodine deficiency could prevent children from attaining their full intellectual potential (46,47). As these anomalies were reversible, they probably result from lately acquired and reversible subclinical hypothyroidism, rather than from fetal and/or neonatal hypothyroidism. In severe iodine deficiency, the frequency distribution of IQ in normal appearing children is shifted towards low values as compared to children who were not exposed to in utero iodine deficiency because of correction of the deficiency in the mothers before or during early gestation (48-49). In a meta-analysis of 19 studies on neuromotor and cognitive functions in conditions of moderate to severe iodine deficiency, Bleichrodt and Born (50) concluded that iodine deficiency resulted in a loss of 13.5 IQ points at the level of the global population.A more recent metanalysis conducted on studies in China produced a very similar result (51). Several of these studies are summarized in Table 4 . Table 4 Neurointellectual Deficits in Infants and Schoolchildren in Conditions of
