The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


studies in China produced a very similar result (51). Several of these studies are summarized in Table 4 . Table 4 Neurointellectual Deficits in Infants and Schoolchildren in Conditions of Mild to Moderate Iodine Deficiency View in own window REGIONS TESTS FINDINGS AUTHORS Spain Locally adpated BAYLEY McCARTHY CATTELL Lower psychomotor and mental development than controls Bleichrodt et al. 1989 (52) Italy Sicily BENDER- GESTALT Low preceptual integrative motor ability Neuromuscular and neurosensorial abnormalities Vermiglio et al. 1990 (53) Tuscany WECHSLER RAVEN Low verbal IQ, perception, motor and attentive functions Fenzi et al. 1990 (54) Tuscany WISC Reaction time Lower velocity of motor response to visual stimuli Vitti et al. 1992 (55) Aghini-Lombardi et al. 1995 (44) India Verbal, pictorial learning tests Tests of motivation Lower capacities learning Tiwari et al. 1996 (56) Iran Bender-Gestalt Raven Retardation in psychomotor development Azizi et al. 1993 (57) Malawi Psychometric tests including verbal fluency Loss of 10 IQ points as compared to iodine-supplemented controls Shrestha 1994 (58) Benin Battery of 8 non verbal tests exploring fluid intelligence and 2 psychomotor tests Loss of 5 IQ points as compared to controls supplemented with iodine for one year van den Briel et al. 2000 (59) Data from cross-sectional studies on iodine intake and child growth are mixed, with most studies finding modest positive correlations (60). In five Asian countries, household access to iodized salt was correlated with increased weight-for-age and mid-upper-arm circumference in infancy (61). However, controlled intervention studies of iodized oil alone and iodine given with other micronutrients have generally not found effects on child growth (60). In iodine-deficient children, impaired thyroid function and goiter are inversely correlated with IGF-1 and IGFBP-3 concentrations (62). Recent controlled trials found iodine repletion increased insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 and insulin-like growth factor binding protein (IGFBP)-3 and improved somatic growth in children (60). Iodine deficiency in the adult Iodine status is a key determinant of thyroid disorders in adults (63). Severe iodine deficiency causes goitre and hypothyroidism because, despite an increase in thyroid activity to maximise iodine uptake and recycling in this setting, iodine concentrations are still too low to enable sufficient production of thyroid hormone. In mild-to-moderate iodine deficiency, increased thyroid activity can compensate for low iodine intake and maintain euthyroidism in most individuals, but at a price: chronic thyroid stimulation results in an increase in the prevalence of toxic nodular goitre and hyperthyroidism in populations. Thus,
