The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


intake and maintain euthyroidism in most individuals, but at a price: chronic thyroid stimulation results in an increase in the prevalence of toxic nodular goitre and hyperthyroidism in populations. Thus, a consequence of longstanding iodine deficiency in the adult (64-67) and child (68) is the development of hyperthyroidism, especially in multinodular goiters with autonomous nodules. The pathogenesis of this syndrome is discussed later in this chapter, in the section on side effects of iodine supplementation. This high prevalence of nodular autonomy usually results in a further increase in the prevalence of hyperthyroidism if iodine intake is subsequently increased by salt iodisation. However, this increase is transient because iodine sufficiency normalises thyroid activity which, in the long term, reduces nodular autonomy. Increased iodine intake in an iodine-deficient population is associated with a small increase in the prevalence of subclinical hypothyroidism and thyroid autoimmunity; whether these increases are also transient is unclear. Thus, optimisation of population iodine intake is an important component of preventive health care to reduce the prevalence of thyroid disorders (63). SPECIFIC IODINE DEFICIENCY DISORDERS Endemic goiter Epidemiology Endemic goiter is characterized by enlargement of the thyroid gland in a significantly large fraction of a population group, and is generally considered to be due to insufficient iodine in the daily diet. Endemic goiter exists in a population when >5% of 6-12 year-old children have enlarged thyroid glands Figure 2 shows a young girl with a soft diffuse goitre and an elderly woman with a huge, longstanding multinodular goiter, both resulting from iodine deficiency. Most mountainous districts in the world have been or still are endemic goiter regions. The disease may be seen throughout the Andes, in the whole sweep of the Himalayas, in the European Alps where iodide prophylaxis has not yet reached the entire population, in Greece and the Middle Eastern countries, in many foci in the People's Republic of China, and in the highlands of New Guinea. There are or were also important endemias in non-mountainous regions, as for example, the belt extending from the Cameroon grasslands across northern Zaire and the Central African Republic to the borders of Uganda and Rwanda, as well as in Holland, Central Europe and the interior of Brazil. An endemic existed in the Great Lakes region in North America until it was corrected by iodized salt in the early 1900s. Goiter maps of various countries have been repeatedly drawn, requiring modification
