The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


in the Great Lakes region in North America until it was corrected by iodized salt in the early 1900s. Goiter maps of various countries have been repeatedly drawn, requiring modification as successful prophylactic measures have been introduced. Although goiter was an important problem in many regions of the United States in the past (69), more recent US surveys have shown it in no more than 4-11% of schoolchildren, with evidence of continued adequate iodine nutrition in the country since 1988 (70,71). This finding is a testimony to the effectiveness of iodine prophylaxis in preventing endemic goiter. The world or regional distribution of goiter was exhaustively reviewed by Kelly and Snedden in 1960 (72) and, most recently, in 2005 (73). These surveys reveal striking differences in the rate of goiter in different endemic regions and even in adjacent districts. The geographic unevenness of an endemia undoubtedly has much to do with the habits of the population and their ability and/or desire to import iodine containing foods. In attempting to account for the variability in the expression of endemic goiter from one locality to the next, the availability of iodine should be investigated before searching for some other subtle dietary or genetic factors. The key to the problem almost always lies in the availability of iodine. One must also consider the possibility that an observed goiter rate may not reflect current conditions, but rather may be a legacy of pre-existing iodine deficiency that has not yet been entirely resolved by an improvement in the supply of iodine. The assessment of goiter in a population, and its limitations, are discussed in the section on assessment of the IDD status of the population. Etiology Iodine Deficiency The arguments supporting iodine deficiency as the cause of endemic goiter are four: (1) the close association between a low iodine content in food and water and the appearance of the disease in the population; (2) the sharp reduction in incidence when iodine is added to the diet; (3) the demonstration that the metabolism of iodine by patients with endemic goiter fits the pattern that would be expected from iodine deficiency and is reversed by iodine repletion; and 4) iodine deficiency causes changes in the thyroid glands of animals that are similar to those seen in humans (74,75). Almost invariably, careful assessment of the iodine intake of a goitrous population reveals levels considerably below normal. Goitrogenic factors Although
