The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


animals that are similar to those seen in humans (74,75). Almost invariably, careful assessment of the iodine intake of a goitrous population reveals levels considerably below normal. Goitrogenic factors Although the relation of iodine deficiency to endemic goiter is well established, other factors may be involved. A whole variety of naturally occurring agents have been identified that might be goitrogenic in man (76,77). It should be recognized that goitrogens are usually active only if iodine supply is limited and/or goitrogen intake is of long duration. Many of these have only been tested in animals and/or have been shown to possess antithyroid effects in vitro. These compounds belong to the following chemical groups: Sulfurated organics (like thiocyanate, isothiocyanate, goitrin and disulphides) Flavonoids (polyphenols) Polyhydroxyphenols and phenol derivatives Pyridines, phthalate esters and metabolites, Polychlorinated (PCB) and polybrominated (PBB) biphenyls Organochlorines (like DDT) Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) Inorganic iodine (in excess) Gaitan (76) divides goitrogens into agents acting directly on the thyroid gland and those causing goiter by indirect action. The former group is subdivided into those inhibiting transport of iodide into the thyroid (like thiocyanate and isothiocyanate), those acting on the intrathyroidal oxidation and organic binding process of iodide and/or the coupling reaction (like phenolic compounds) some phthalate derivatives (disulfides and goitrin) and those interfering with proteolysis, dehalogenation and hormone release (like iodide and lithium). Indirect goitrogens increase the rate of thyroid hormone metabolism (like 2,4-dinitrophenol, PCB's and PBB's). Soybean, an important protein source in many third world countries, interrupts the enterohepatic cycle of thyroid hormone (78) and may cause goiter when iodine intake is limited. Some of these goitrogens are synthetic and are used medicinally. Others occur in certain widely used food plants (79). The initial recognition of dietary goitrogenesis is attributed to Chesney et al. (80) who in 1928 found that rabbits fed largely on cabbage developed goiters. In 1936, Barker (81) found that thiocyanate used in large doses to treat hypertension resulted in goiter. In 1936, Hercus and Purves (82) reported their studies on the production of goiter in rats by feeding the seeds of several species of Brassica (rape, choumoellier, turnip, etc.). Both Mackenzie and MacKenzie (83) and Astwood (84) found in the 1940’s that certain drugs such as thiourea and related compounds caused hyperplasia of the thyroid when administered to rats. Their investigations quickly led to the introduction of the thionamide series of antithyroid drugs, now so
