The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


as thiourea and related compounds caused hyperplasia of the thyroid when administered to rats. Their investigations quickly led to the introduction of the thionamide series of antithyroid drugs, now so familiar in clinical therapeutics. Thiocyanate and precursors of thiocyanate, such as the cyanogenic glycosides, form another group of widely distributed natural antithyroid substances. They have been found particularly in the widely used tuber cassava (manioc) (85). Cassava causes goiter when fed to rats (86). Certain sulfur-containing onion volatiles are also goitrogenic (87). All of these substances interfere with the accumulation of thyroidal iodide, an effect that usually can be overcome by an increasing iodine intake. Delange et al. (88) observed a striking difference in incidence of goiter in two regions of an isolated island in the Kivu Lake in Eastern Dem. Rep. of Congo, although the iodine intake of both groups was approximately the same. There was a major difference in the use of cassava. Cassava has been implicated as a contributing factor in endemic goiter in Zaire (89,90). In a study of several communities in the Ubangi region of Zaire, a relationship between goiter, thiocyanate and iodide excretion was described. The thiocyanate was derived from intestinal breakdown of the cyanogenic glycoside, linamarin, from cassava and its conversion to thiocyanate by the liver. The results indicated a reciprocal relationship between iodide and thiocyanate in that increasing amounts of iodide protected increasingly against the thiocyanate derived from the cassava (89). Thiocyanate may cross the human placenta (89, 91) and affect the thyroid of the fetus. Excessive intake of iodine may cause goiter. A localized endemia has been reported on the coast of Hokkaido in Northern Japan (92). In this district the diet contained a huge amount of seaweed, and excretion of 127I in the urine exceeded 20 mg/day. The uptake of RAI by the thyroid was low, and some of it could be discharged by administration of thiocyanate, indicating impairment of organification. Similar findings have been reported from coastal (93) and continental (94) China. Firm evidence for goitrogenic action in humans has only been shown for a few compounds: thiocyanate, goitrin, resorcinol, dinitrophenol, PBB's and its oxides, excess iodine and high doses of lithium (77). A definite role in endemic goiter has only been proved for thiocyanate and sulfurated organics, although substantial and circumstantial evidence favors the view that natural goitrogens, acting in concert with iodine deficiency, may determine the pattern
