The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


has only been proved for thiocyanate and sulfurated organics, although substantial and circumstantial evidence favors the view that natural goitrogens, acting in concert with iodine deficiency, may determine the pattern and severity of the condition. An example is the possible role of the consumption of pearl millet in the etiology of endemic goiter in Sudan (95). Selenium deficiency may have profound effects on thyroid hormone metabolism and possibly also on the thyroid gland itself (96-98). In this situation the function of type I deiodinase (a selenoprotein) is impaired. Type I deiodinase plays a major role in T4 deiodination in peripheral tissues. It has been shown that when, in an area of combined iodine and selenium deficiency, only selenium is supplemented, serum T4 decreases (99). This effect is explained by restoration of type I deiodinase activity leading to normalization of T4 deiodination while T4 synthesis remains impaired because of continued iodine deficiency. Selenium deficiency also leads to a reduction of the selenium containing enzyme glutathione peroxidase. Glutathione peroxidase detoxifies H2O2 which is abundantly present in the thyroid gland as a substrate for the thyroperoxidase that catalyzes iodide oxidation and binding to thyroglobulin, and the oxidative coupling of iodotyrosines into iodothyronines. Reduced detoxification of H2O2 may lead to thyroid cell death (96,100). Elevated H2O2 levels in thyrocytes may be more toxic under situations of increased TSH stimulation such as is present in areas with severe iodine deficiency. Extensive epidemiological data collected in China indicated that all selenium-deficient areas were IDD-endemic areas. However, the reverse is not true: IDD can be very severe in many selenium-rich areas (101). Deficiencies of iron (102,103) and vitamin A (104) may also have a goitrogenic effect in areas of iodine deficiency ( Table 5 ). Table 5 Dietary Goitrogens View in own window Goitrogen Mechanism Foods Cassava, lima beans, linseed, sorghum, sweet potato Contain cyanogenic glucosides; they are metabolized to thiocyanates that compete with iodine for thyroidal uptake Cruciferous vegetables: cabbage, kale, cauliflower, broccoli, turnips, rapeseed Contains glucosinolates; metabolites compete with iodine for thyroidal uptake Soy, millet Flavonoids impair thyroid peroxidase activity Nutrients Selenium deficiency Accumulated peroxides may damage the thyroid, and deiodinase deficiency impairs thyroid hormone synthesis Iron deficiency Reduces heme-dependent thyroperoxidase activity in the thyroid and may blunt the efficacy of iodine prophylaxis Vitamin A deficiency Increases TSH stimulation and goiter through decreased vitamin A-mediated suppression of the pituitary TSHβ gene Pathology There are no
