The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


and may blunt the efficacy of iodine prophylaxis Vitamin A deficiency Increases TSH stimulation and goiter through decreased vitamin A-mediated suppression of the pituitary TSHβ gene Pathology There are no gross or microscopic features that distinguish the thyroid of endemic goiter from changes that may appear in simple and sporadic goiter. The changes evolve through stages. In the very young, or in older patients who have lived under constant iodide deprivation, the finding is extreme hyperplasia. In some instances only a cellular organ is found, with little or no colloid. ( Figure 3 ) The evolution of pathologic findings in humans have been detailed and well illustrated by Correa (105) and Studer and Ramelli (106) and follow the pattern of events first described by Marine (107) and known as the Marine cycle. In this formulation, repeated episodes of hyperplasia induced by iodine deficiency are followed by involution and atrophy, the result being a gland containing a mixed bag of nodules, zones of hyperplasia, and involuting, degenerative, and repair elements. Figure 3 Histological section of large goiter removed because of pressure symptoms in Papua New Guinea, showing intense hyperplasia with no colloid. From Buttfield and Hetzel (140). Diagnosis A diagnosis of endemic goiter implies that the cause is known, or at least strongly suspected. Usually water and food are found to have very low iodine content. The thyroid glands are often diffusely enlarged in childhood, but are almost always nodular in adults. The typical laboratory findings are elevated radioiodine thyroidal uptake (RAIU), normal or low T4 and FT4 levels, normal or elevated T3 levels, normal or elevated TSH levels, and diminished urinary 127I excretion. RAIU is typically suppressible when thyroid hormone is given, but not always. Scanning with radioiodine or TcO4- shows a mottled distribution of the isotope. Antithyroglobulin or thyroperoxidase antibodies are usually absent. In an area of endemic goiter, the diagnosis can be presumed if the goiter is a community problem, but one must always be wary of missing individual patients with thyroiditis, thyrotoxicosis or thyroid carcinoma. Pathophysiology When iodine intake is abnormally low, adequate secretion of thyroid hormones may still be achieved by marked modifications of thyroid activity. These adaptive processes include stimulation of the trapping mechanism of iodide by the thyroid as well as stimulation of the subsequent steps of the intrathyroidal metabolism of iodine leading to preferential synthesis and secretion of T3. They are triggered and
