The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


iodide by the thyroid as well as stimulation of the subsequent steps of the intrathyroidal metabolism of iodine leading to preferential synthesis and secretion of T3. They are triggered and maintained by increased secretion of TSH. The morphological consequence of prolonged thyrotropic stimulation is thyroid hyperplasia (108). The first functional consequence of iodine deficiency is an increase in the uptake of iodide by the thyroid mediated via a transmembrane protein, the sodium iodide symporter (NIS) (109). There is a clear inverse relation between iodine supply and thyroidal uptake of radioiodide. The increased uptake may be accompanied by and may result from an increase in the serum levels of TSH. However, elevated TSH in endemic goiter is usually systematically found only in conditions of extreme iodine deficiency. In conditions of mild iodine deficiency, elevated TSH is typically found in only a small fraction of subjects, usually the youngest (110). It is possible that it is the sensitivity of the thyroid to TSH rather than the TSH level itself that mainly varies with iodide supply. However, whatever the relative roles of TSH levels and sensitivity to TSH, the thyroid is stimulated as demonstrated by increased secretion and elevated serum levels of thyroglobulin. For any adequate adjustment of iodine supply to the thyroid, iodide trapping must fulfill two conditions. First, it must reduce the amount of iodide excreted in the urine to a level corresponding to the level of iodine intake in order to preserve the preexisting iodine stores. Second, it must ensure the accumulation in the thyroid of definite amounts of iodide per day, estimated at least 100 μg/day in adolescents and adults. The increase in the iodide clearance by the thyroid despite the decrease in the serum concentration of iodide maintains a normal absolute uptake of iodide by the thyroid and an organic iodine content of the thyroid which remains within the limits of normal (i.e., 10-20 mg) as long as the iodine intake remains above a threshold of about 50 μg/day. Below this critical level of iodine intake, despite a further increase of thyroid iodide clearance, the absolute uptake of iodide diminishes and the iodine content of the thyroid decreases with functional consequences resulting in the development of a goiter (111,112). Thyroid hyperplasia induced by iodine deficiency is associated with an altered pattern of thyroid hormonogenesis: the abnormal configuration of the poorly iodinated thyroglobulin in the thyroid colloid is accompanied
