The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


(111,112). Thyroid hyperplasia induced by iodine deficiency is associated with an altered pattern of thyroid hormonogenesis: the abnormal configuration of the poorly iodinated thyroglobulin in the thyroid colloid is accompanied by an increase in poorly iodinated compounds, monoiodotyrosine (MIT) and T3, and a decrease in diiodotyrosine (DIT) and T4. The increase of the MIT/DIT and T3/T4 ratios is closely related to the degree of iodine depletion of the gland (113). The T3/T4 ratio in the serum may be elevated in conditions of iodine deficiency because: 1) thyroidal secretion of T4 and T3 is in the proportion in which they exist within the gland; and/or 2) preferential secretion of T3 or increased peripheral conversion of T4 to T3. The shift to increased T3 secretion plays an important role in the adaptation to iodine deficiency because T3 possesses about 4 times the metabolic potency of T4 but requires only 75 % as much iodine for synthesis. However, efficient adaptation to iodine deficiency is possible in the absence of goiter as demonstrated in nongoitrous patients in endemic goiter areas such as New Guinea (114) and the Congo (115). Moreover, adequate adaptation to iodine deficiency has been demonstrated in areas of severe iodine deficiency in the absence of endemic goiter (116). This clearly indicates that goiter is not required for achieving efficient adaptation to iodine deficiency. Rather, in these conditions, efficient adaptation to iodine deficiency is possible thanks to a high iodide trapping capacity but with only a slight enlargement of the thyroid. At this stage, the characteristic hyperplastic picture includes abundant parenchyma, high follicular epithelium and rare colloid. On the contrary, in large goiters, the major part of the gland is occupied by extremely distended vesicles filled with colloid with a flattened epithelium. The mechanism responsible for the development of colloid goiter is not fully understood (117), but it does not appear to be TSH hyperstimulation. It must be the consequence of an imbalance between thyroglobulin synthesis and hydrolysis, i.e. secretion. In these conditions, iodide is diluted while thyroglobulin is in excess, resulting in a lesser degree of iodization of thyroglobulin and, consequently, in a decrease in iodothyronine synthesis and secretion (118). Hydrolysis of large amounts of poorly iodinated thyroglobulin will result in an important leak of iodide by the thyroid and enhanced urinary loss of iodide, further aggravating the state of iodine deficiency (119). Therefore, large colloid goiters in endemic iodine deficiency
