The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


an important leak of iodide by the thyroid and enhanced urinary loss of iodide, further aggravating the state of iodine deficiency (119). Therefore, large colloid goiters in endemic iodine deficiency represent maladaptation instead of adaptation to iodine deficiency because they may produce a vicious cycle of iodine loss and defective thyroid hormones synthesis. Endemic cretinism Epidemiology When McCarrison described cretinism in north-western India during the first decade of this century (120), he delineated a neurologic form, with predominantly neuromotor defects, including strabismus, deaf-mutism, spastic diplegia, and other disorders of gait and coordination. The patients usually had a goiter. The other form, which he called the myxedematous form, showed evidence of severe hypothyroidism, short stature, and markedly delayed bone and sexual maturation. The patients usually had a thyroid normal in size and position, and were seldom deaf. Neurological Cretinism The three characteristic features of neurological endemic cretinism in its fully developed form are extremely severe mental deficiency together with squint, deaf mutism and motor spasticity with disorders of the arms and legs of a characteristic nature. ( Figure 4 ). As would be expected with a deficiency disease, there is a wide range in the severity of the clinical features in the population affected (120-122). Figure 4 (a). Male from Ecuador about 40 years old, deaf-mute, unable to stand or walk. Use of the hands was strikingly spared, despite proximal upper-extremity spasticity. Figure 4 (b). Male from South western China with the typical facies of neurological cretinism, who is also deaf-mute and suffering from less severe proximal muscle weakness in lower limbs. Mental deficiency is characterized by a marked impairment of the capacity for abstract thought but vision is unaffected. Autonomic, vegetative, personal, social functions and memory appear to be relatively well preserved except in the most severe cases. Deafness is the striking feature. This may be complete in as many as 50% cretins. It has been confirmed by auditory brain stem evoked potential studies which showed no cochlear or brain stem responses even at the highest sound frequencies. These findings suggest a cochlear lesion. In subjects with reduced hearing a high tone defect is apparent. Deafness is sometimes absent in subjects with other signs of cretinism. Nearly all totally deaf cretins are mute and many with some hearing have no intelligible speech. The motor disorder shows a characteristic proximal rigidity of both lower and upper extremities and the trunk. There
