The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


cretins are mute and many with some hearing have no intelligible speech. The motor disorder shows a characteristic proximal rigidity of both lower and upper extremities and the trunk. There is a corresponding proximal spasticity with markedly exaggerated deep tendon reflexes at the knees, adductors and biceps. Spastic involvement of the feet and hands is unusual or, if present, is much milder than that of the proximal limbs. Function of the hands and feet is characteristically preserved so that most cretins can walk. This observation is very useful in differentiating cretinism from other forms of cerebral palsy commonly encountered in endemic areas, such as cerebral palsy from birth injury or meningitis. In addition to frank cretinism, a larger proportion of the population suffers from some degree of intellectual impairment and coordination defect. Comparative population based neuropsychological assessments of children in areas of iodine deficiency compared with areas with adequate iodine intake confirm a shift of the intelligence curve to the left in the iodine deficient areas. Careful examination of affected individuals in such areas reveals a pattern of neurological involvement similar to that seen in frank cretins, although of milder degree. In assessing these less severe defects, nonverbal tests are most helpful and school progress is a good indicator. After the age of 3 years drawings are very useful, indicating a defect in visual motor integration. Finally, elevated hearing thresholds have been reported in children with no other signs of endemic cretinism in conditions of mild iodine deficiency (123). DeLong (124) suggests that the neuropathological basis of the clinical picture includes underdevelopment of the cochlea for deafness; maldevelopment of the cerebral neocortex for mental retardation; and maldevelopment of the corpus striatum (especially putamen and globus pallidus) for the motor disorder. The cerebellum, hypothalamus, visual system, and hippocampus are relatively spared. Pathophysiology of neurological cretinism Developmental neuropathology and available epidemiologic data suggest that the period from about 12-14 weeks until 20-30 weeks of gestation may be the critical period during which damage occurs (19). Cortical and striatal neuron proliferation, migration, and early formation of neuropil occur between 12 and 18 weeks. Cochlear development occurs at the same time. These data correlate well with the data from the Papua New Guinea trial which indicated that iodine repletion must occur by three months of pregnancy to prevent cretinism (35). Studies already cited above on the effect of iodine deficiency on brain cell development
