The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


which indicated that iodine repletion must occur by three months of pregnancy to prevent cretinism (35). Studies already cited above on the effect of iodine deficiency on brain cell development in the newborn rat, sheep and marmoset suggest that iodine deficiency has an early effect on neuroblast multiplication. Brain weight is reduced and there are a reduced number of cells, a greater density of cells in the cerebral cortex and reduced cell acquisition in the cerebellum. Because maternal thyroxine crosses the placenta, it is now envisaged that neurological cretinism is predominantly caused by maternal hypothyroidism due to iodine deficiency (125). It has been suggested that an autosomal recessive predisposition, besides maternal iodine deficiency, may play an etiological role in neurological cretinism (126). Myxedematous Cretinism The typical myxedematous cretin (Fig 5) has a less severe degree of mental retardation than the neurological cretin, but has all the features of extremely severe hypothyroidism present since early life, as in untreated sporadic congenital hypothyroidism (127-129): severe growth retardation, incomplete maturation of the facial features including the naso-orbital configuration, atrophy of the mandibles, puffy features, myxedematous, thickened and dry skin, dry and decreased hair, eyelashes and eyebrows and much delayed sexual maturation. Figure 5 Myxedematous endemic cretinism in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Four inhabitants aged 15-20 years : a normal male and three females with severe longstanding hypothyroidism with dwarfism, retarded sexual development, puffy features, dry skin and hair and severe mental retardation. Contrasting with the general population and with neurological cretinism, goiter is usually absent and the thyroid is often not palpable, suggesting thyroid atrophy. This diagnosis is confirmed by thyroid scans that show a thyroid in the normal location but of small volume with a very heterogeneous and patchy distribution of the tracer (114). Thyroidal uptake of radioiodine is much lower than in the general population. The serum levels of T4 and T3 are extremely low, often undetectable, and TSH is dramatically high. Markedly enlarged sella turcicas have been demonstrated, suggesting pituitary adenomas (130). Myxedematous cretinism used to be particularly common in Zaire. Early reports indicated limited neurological abnormalities in the cretins in this country, but one has to be cautious in interpreting these reports as comprehensive neurological examinations had not been performed (128). The movements are torpid and the reflex relaxation is usually much prolonged. However, hyperreflexia and Babinski signs were occasionally reported while knock knees and flat feet were
