The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


been performed (128). The movements are torpid and the reflex relaxation is usually much prolonged. However, hyperreflexia and Babinski signs were occasionally reported while knock knees and flat feet were obvious in the photographs of these patients in the literature. Subsequent expert neurological examination of some of these patients by De Long (120) suggested some of them had the neurological signs reported in the neurological type of cretinism, but they were partly obscured by the status of severe hypothyroidism. This is an important finding as it indicates in utero damage from hypothyroxinemia from maternal iodine deficiency does occur in myxedematous cretinism and is followed by severe, irreversible hypothyroidism in infancy and childhood. Etiology and Pathophysiology of myxedematous cretinism Three additional factors, acting alone or in combination, have been proposed for explaining the particularity of thyroid atrophy characteristic of the myxedematous type of cretinism (131): 1) Thiocyanate overload resulting from the chronic consumption of poorly detoxified cassava (88). Its role has been suggested in Zaire from the observation that populations in areas with severe but uniform iodine deficiency exhibit cretinism only when a critical threshold in the dietary supply of SCN is reached. SCN crosses the placenta and inhibits the trapping of iodide by the placenta and fetal thyroid (41, 90). This explanation is not necessarily relevant to other areas such as western China where myxedematous cretinism has been described. 2) Selenium deficiency. Severe selenium deficiency has been reported in Zaire in populations where myxedematous cretinism is endemic (95,98). Selenium is present in glutathione peroxidase (Gpx) that detoxifies H2O2 produced in excess in thyroid cells hyperstimulated by TSH because of iodine deficiency. Accumulation of H2O2 within the thyroid cells could induce thyroid cell destruction and thyroid fibrosis resulting in myxedematous cretinism. It has been proposed that the combination of deficiencies in iodine and selenium and SCN overload are required for the occurrence of severe thyroid failure during the perinatal period, and subsequent development of myxedematous cretinism (95). 3) Immunological mechanisms. Some authors (132,133) but not others (134) suggested immunological factors cause destruction of the thyroid, both in endemic and sporadic congenital hypothyroidism. The role of autoimmunity in the etiology endemic cretinism remains controversial. ASSESSMENT OF IODINE STATUS IN POPULATIONS Four methods are generally recommended for assessment of iodine nutrition in populations: urinary iodine concentration (UI), the goiter rate, serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), and serum thyroglobulin (Tg) (see overview in Table
