The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


are generally recommended for assessment of iodine nutrition in populations: urinary iodine concentration (UI), the goiter rate, serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), and serum thyroglobulin (Tg) (see overview in Table 6 ). These indicators are complementary, in that UI is a sensitive indicator of recent iodine intake (days) and Tg shows an intermediate response (weeks to months), whereas changes in the goiter rate reflect long-term iodine nutrition (months to years). Thyroid size Two methods are available for measuring goiter: neck inspection and palpation, and thyroid ultrasonography. By palpation, a thyroid is considered goitrous when each lateral lobe has a volume greater than the terminal phalanx of the thumbs of the subject being examined. In the classification system of WHO (1), grade 0 is defined as a thyroid that is not palpable or visible, grade 1 is a goiter that is palpable but not visible when the neck is in the normal position (i.e., the thyroid is not visibly enlarged), and grade 2 goiter is a thyroid that is clearly visible when the neck is in a normal position (see Figure 6 ). Goiter surveys are usually done in school age children. However, palpation of goiter in areas of mild iodine deficiency has poor sensitivity and specificity; in such areas, measurement of thyroid volume (Tvol) by ultrasound is preferable (135). Thyroid ultrasound is non-invasive, quickly done (2-3 mins per subject) and feasible even in remote areas using portable equipment. However, interpretation of Tvol data requires valid references from iodine-sufficient children. In a recent multicenter study, Tvol was measured in 6-12 y-old children (n=3529) living in areas of long-term iodine sufficiency on five continents. Age- and body surface area- specific 97 th percentiles for Tvol were calculated for boys and girls (136). Goiter can be classified according to these international reference criteria, but they are only applicable if Tvol is determined by a standard method (1). In areas of endemic goiter, although thyroid size predictably decreases in response to increases in iodine intake, thyroid size may not return to normal for months or years after correction of iodine deficiency (137,138). During this transition period, the goiter rate is difficult to interpret, because it reflects both a population’s history of iodine nutrition and its present status. Aghini-Lombardi et al. (138) suggested that enlarged thyroids in children who were iodine deficient during the first years of life may not regress completely after introduction of
