The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


its present status. Aghini-Lombardi et al. (138) suggested that enlarged thyroids in children who were iodine deficient during the first years of life may not regress completely after introduction of salt iodization. If true, this suggests that to achieve a goiter rate <5% in children may require that they grow up under conditions of iodine sufficiency. A sustained salt iodization program will decrease the goiter rate by ultrasound to <5% in school-age children and this indicates disappearance of iodine deficiency as a significant public health problem (1). WHO recommends the total goiter rate be used to define severity of iodine deficiency in populations using the following criteria: <5%, iodine sufficiency; 5.0%–19.9%, mild deficiency; 20.0%–29.9%, moderate deficiency; and >30%, severe deficiency (1). Urinary iodine concentration (UIC) Because >90% of ingested iodine is excreted in the urine, UI is an excellent indicator of recent iodine intake. UI can be expressed as a concentration (µg/L), in relationship to creatinine excretion (µg iodine/g creatinine), or as 24-hour excretion (µg/day), which is termed urinary iodine excretion (UIE). For populations, because it is impractical to collect 24-hour samples in field studies, UI can be measured in spot urine specimens from a representative sample of the target group, and expressed as the median, in µg/L (1). Variations in hydration among individuals generally even out in a large number of samples, so that the median UI in spot samples correlates well with that from 24-hour samples. For national, school-based surveys of iodine nutrition, the median UI from a representative sample of spot urine collections from ≈1200 children (30 sampling clusters x 40 children per cluster) can be used to classify a population’s iodine status (1) ( Table 7 ). However, the median UI is often misinterpreted. Individual iodine intakes, and, therefore, spot UI concentrations are highly variable from day-to-day (139), and a common mistake is to assume that all subjects with a spot UI <100 µg/L are iodine deficient. To estimate iodine intakes in individuals, 24-hour collections are preferable, but difficult to obtain. An alternative is to use the age-and sex adjusted iodine:creatinine ratio in adults, but this also has limitations (140). Creatinine may be unreliable for estimating daily iodine excretion from spot samples, especially in malnourished subjects where creatinine concentration is low. Daily iodine intake for population estimates can be extrapolated from UI, using estimates of mean 24-hour urine volume and assuming an average iodine bioavailability of
