The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


where creatinine concentration is low. Daily iodine intake for population estimates can be extrapolated from UI, using estimates of mean 24-hour urine volume and assuming an average iodine bioavailability of 92% using the formula: Urinary iodine (µg/L) x 0.0235 x body weight (kg) = daily iodine intake (5). Using this formula, a median UI of 100 μg/L corresponds roughly to an average daily intake of 150 μg. Thyroid stimulating hormone Because serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) concentration is determined mainly by the level of circulating thyroid hormone, which in turn reflects iodine intake, TSH can be used as an indicator of iodine nutrition. However, in older children and adults, although serum TSH may be slightly increased by iodine deficiency, values often remain within the normal range. TSH is therefore a relatively insensitive indicator of iodine nutrition in adults (1). In contrast, TSH is a sensitive indicator of iodine status in the newborn period (141, 142). Compared to the adult, the newborn thyroid contains less iodine but has higher rates of iodine turnover. Particularly when iodine supply is low, maintaining high iodine turnover requires increased TSH stimulation. Serum TSH concentrations are therefore increased in iodine deficient infants for the first few weeks of life, a condition termed transient newborn hypothyroidism or hyperthyrotropinemia. In areas of iodine deficiency, an increase in transient newborn hypothyroidism, indicated by >3 % of newborn TSH values above the threshold of 5 mIU/L in whole blood collected 3 to 4 days after birth, suggests but is not diagnostic of iodine deficiency in the population (141, 142). TSH is used in many countries for routine newborn screening to detect congenital hypothyroidism. If already in place, such screening offers a sensitive indicator of population iodine nutrition providing the timing of heel-stick blood collection is standardised and the TSH assay is modified to report TSH values in the range from normal to the cut-off level for diagnosis of congenital hypothyroidism (141). Newborn TSH is an important measure because it reflects iodine status during a period when the developing brain is particularly sensitive to iodine deficiency. Thyroglobulin Thyroglobulin (Tg) is synthesized only in the thyroid, and is the most abundant intrathyroidal protein. In iodine sufficiency, small amounts of Tg are secreted into the circulation, and serum Tg is normally <10 µg/L (143). In areas of endemic goiter, serum Tg increases due to greater thyroid cell mass and TSH stimulation. Serum Tg
