The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


into the circulation, and serum Tg is normally <10 µg/L (143). In areas of endemic goiter, serum Tg increases due to greater thyroid cell mass and TSH stimulation. Serum Tg is well correlated with the severity of iodine deficiency as measured by UI (144). Intervention studies examining the potential of Tg as an indicator of response to iodized oil and potassium iodide have shown that Tg falls rapidly with iodine repletion, and that Tg is a more sensitive indicator of iodine repletion than TSH or T4 (145,146). However, commercially-available assays measure serum Tg, which requires venipuncture, centrifugation and frozen sample transport, which may be difficult in remote areas. A new assay for Tg has been developed for dried blood spots taken by a finger prick (147,148), simplifying collection and transport. In prospective studies, dried blood spot Tg has been shown to be a sensitive measure of iodine status and reflects improved thyroid function within several months after iodine repletion (147,148). However, several questions need to be resolved before Tg can be widely adopted as an indicator of iodine status. One question is the need for concurrent measurement of anti-Tg antibodies to avoid potential underestimation of Tg; it is unclear how prevalent anti-Tg antibodies are in iodine deficiency, or whether they are precipitated by iodine prophylaxis (149). Another limitation is large interassay variability and poor reproducibility, even with the use of standardization (143). This has made it difficult to establish normal ranges and/or cutoffs to distinguish severity of iodine deficiency. However, recently international reference ranges for DBS Tg in iodine-sufficient school children (4-40 μg/L) has been made available (147) and a similar reference range proposed for DBS Tg in iodine sufficient pregnant women (150). Thyroid hormone concentrations In contrast, thyroid hormone concentrations are poor indicators of iodine status. In iodine-deficient populations, serum T3 increases or remains unchanged, and serum T4 usually decreases. However, these changes are often within the normal range, and the overlap with iodine-sufficient populations is large enough to make thyroid hormone levels an insensitive measure of iodine nutrition (1). Table 6 Indicators of iodine status at population level View in own window Indicator (units) Age Group Advantages Disadvantages Application Median urinary iodine concentration (μg/L) School-age children, adults and pregnant women § Spot urine samples are easy to obtain § Relatively low cost § External quality control program in place § Not useful for individual assessment § Assesses iodine
