The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


than adequate Risk of iodine-induced hyperthyroidism in susceptible groups >300 Excessive Risk of adverse health consequences (iodine-induced hyperthyroidism, autoimmune thyroid disease and hypothyroidism) Pregnant women < 150 Insufficient 150 – 249 Adequate 250 – 499 More than adequate ≥ 500 Excessive a Lactating women b < 100 Insufficient ≥ 100 Adequate Children less than 2 years old < 100 Insufficient ≥ 100 Adequate a The term “excessive” means in excess of the amount required to prevent and control iodine deficiency. b In lactating women, the figures for median urinary iodine are lower than the iodine requirements because of the iodine excreted in breast milk. Figure 6 Three women of the Himalayas with stage II goiters. IODINE FORTIFICATION AND SUPPLEMENTATION Iodized salt Iodized salt is considered the most appropriate measure for iodine fortification (1). The advantage of iodized salt is that it is used by nearly all sections of a community, irrespective of social and economic status. It is consumed as a condiment at roughly the same level throughout the year. Its production is often confined to a few centers so that fortification can occur on a large scale and with better controlled conditions. There are two forms of iodine which can be used to iodize salt: iodide and iodate, usually as the potassium salt. Iodate is less soluble and more stable than iodide and is therefore preferred for tropical moist conditions. When used, both are generally referred to as "iodized" salt. The daily requirement of iodine is 150 µg per person for adults (1). The level of iodization of salt has to be sufficient to cover this requirement, considering potential losses from the point of production to the point of consumption, including the expected shelf life. It also should take into account the per capita salt consumption in an area. Although salt consumption in the range 10-15 g per day is common in developed countries, this is regarded as excessive because of a potential increased risk of hypertension. Therefore, intakes in the range of 3-6 g per day, or even less, are being recommended. This potential reduction in salt intakes should be taken into account when setting iodine levels in fortified salt. Iodized salt can also be used as a feed supplement for cattle and other livestock in iodine deficient areas. Allowing for these factors, the level of iodine as iodate currently recommended to provide 150 ug of iodine per
