The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


feed supplement for cattle and other livestock in iodine deficient areas. Allowing for these factors, the level of iodine as iodate currently recommended to provide 150 ug of iodine per day is in the range of 20-40 mg per kg salt (1). The packaging of the iodized salt is very important. Jute bags have been used extensively but in humid conditions, the salt absorbs moisture. The iodate dissolves and will drip out of the bag if it is porous, and much of the iodine will be lost; up to 75% over a period of nine months. To avoid this, waterproofing is required, achieved by a polythene lining inside the jute bag or else a plastic bag. The additional cost of a plastic bag may be justified by reduced iodine losses and the potential resale value of the bags (151,152). The use of iodized salt in the prevention of IDD has been reviewed (151). The control of the iodine concentration in salt at production level should be performed by using titration methods to provide quantitative data or, in the case of imported salt, by using reliable test kits to provide qualitative data at the point of entry. Consignments with suspect iodine levels should be rechecked by titration. National monitoring programs should: 1) periodically check salt iodine levels in retail shops and households using reliable test kits; 2) conduct occasionally goiter prevalence surveys; and 3) regularly measure urinary iodine. In order to determine the proportion of households using adequately iodized salt in a large geographic area, it is recommended to use cluster surveys at the provincial or national levels. It is also recommended to identify high risk communities where there are inadequate proportions of households using adequately iodized salt. Salt iodization remains the most cost-effective way of delivering iodine and of improving cognition in iodine-deficient populations (153). Worldwide, the annual costs of salt iodization are estimated at 0.02-0.05 US$ per child covered, and the costs per child death averted are US$ 1000 and per DALY gained are US$34-36 (153). Looked at in another way, prior to widespread salt iodization, the annual potential losses attributable to iodine deficiency in the developing world have been estimated to be US$35.7 billion as compared with an estimated US$0.5 billion annual cost for salt iodization, i.e., a 70:1 benefit:cost ratio (154). Iodine supplements In areas of iodine deficiency where iodized salt is not available, iodine supplements are
