The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


estimated US$0.5 billion annual cost for salt iodization, i.e., a 70:1 benefit:cost ratio (154). Iodine supplements In areas of iodine deficiency where iodized salt is not available, iodine supplements are recommended by expert groups for women of reproductive age, pregnant women and lactating women (1,155). All pregnant women should consume approximately 250 µg iodine daily (1,155). To achieve a total of 250 µg iodine ingestion daily, strategies may need to be varied based on country of origin; in some countries, iodized oil supplements (see below) given once a year may be appropriate, in others, potassium iodide supplements may be given daily (1,155). In most regions, including the United States, women who are planning pregnancy or currently pregnant, should supplement their diet with a daily oral supplement that contains 150 µg of iodine in the form of potassium iodide (155). This is optimally started at least 3 months in advance of planned pregnancy. There is no need to initiate iodine supplementation in pregnant women who are being treated for hyperthyroidism or who are taking LT4 (155). Iodized oil Iodized oil ("Lipiodol®") was first used for the correction of iodine deficiency in Papua New Guinea (73). Buttfield and Hetzel (156) demonstrated the effectiveness of a single iodized oil injection (4 ml) in correcting iodine deficiency for a period of up to 4 1/2 years. Another trial in the Western Highlands of New Guinea demonstrated prevention of endemic cretinism and a reduction in fetal and neonatal deaths in the iodine treated group, if the iodized oil injection was given before pregnancy (126). Goiter in the treated population often resolved one to three months after the injection. However, the administration of iodized oil to adults with multinodular goiters in several other countries has not seen resolution or even diminution in size of their goiters. Extensive additional studies on the use of iodized oil in the correction and prevention of IDD have been conducted in Latin America, Africa, Asia and Eastern Europe (157). The physiology and pharmacology of iodized oil in goiter prophylaxis has been extensively reviewed (158). Experience has confirmed the convenience of 200-400 mg the oral administration of iodized oil at yearly intervals through the primary health care system at the village level. In general, the effect of oral administration lasts half the time of the same dose given by injection (159-161). In regions of moderate-to-severe iodine deficiency without effective salt iodisation, lactating
