The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


methods have been found ineffective or are inapplicable. Iodized oil can be regarded as an emergency measure for the control of severe IDD until an effective iodized salt program can be introduced. The spectacular and rapid effects of iodized oil in reducing goiter can be important in demonstrating the benefits of iodization, which can lead to community demand for iodized salt. In general, iodized oil administration should be avoided over the age of 45 because of the possibility of precipitating hyperthyroidism in subjects with longstanding goiter (see further in section VI 3). The possibility of linking up an iodized oil program with other preventative programs, such as the Child Immunization Program, has been discussed (163). Great progress has been made with child immunization programs in Africa and Asia. To this series of measures, oral iodized oil administration could readily be added to cover young children over the first 2-5 years of life. Women of reproductive age would require separate coverage through the primary health care system, especially the family planning health care system or in antenatal services at the same time as with tetanus toxoid. Iodized bread Iodized bread has been used effectively in the State of Tasmania in Australia (164). Successful use of iodized bread was also reported in Russia (165). Since 2009 by law in Australia and New Zealand, all salt used in baking of bread and similar edible products must be iodized salt. Early results from urinary iodine monitoring in Australia since implementation of this mandatory practice has seen correction of mild iodine deficiency in the population as a whole (6). Iodized water Water has some of the advantages of salt as a vehicle for iodine fortification. Both are daily necessities and thus their iodization will reach the most vulnerable groups – the poor and the isolated. Water fortified at a regular rate with iodine provides the thyroid with a steady daily ration, which is physiologically desirable (166). Systems for iodization of drinking water can be classified as follows: Silicone elastomers releasing iodine. A commercial version of this approach is the “Rhodifuse” system of Rhône-Poulenc-Rorer-Doman (now Adventis). Silicone matrices containing 30 % sodium iodide are placed in polyethylene baskets. When the baskets are placed in wells, sodium iodide is released into the water according to the porosity and the surface/volume ratio. Initially successfully used in Mali (167), the system was then used in Burkina Fasso and the
