The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


iodide is released into the water according to the porosity and the surface/volume ratio. Initially successfully used in Mali (167), the system was then used in Burkina Fasso and the Central African Republic. Limitations to the system were climatic conditions, the cost of the diffuser and its maintenance. A similar device was manufactured locally in Malaysia (168). Iodide added to running water in pipes. A commercial example is the Hydroline system used in Sicily (169). The apparatus consisted of a canister filled with coarse crystals of iodine through which water was diverted from the line by a pressure differential. The system was highly efficient with a cost estimated at $ 0.04/person/day. A similar system used in the Sarawak region of Malaysia resulted in the reduction of goiter rate from 61% to 30% within 9 months together with improved thyroid function (170). Iodide added to run-off water. This technique was used by Cao at all (171) in Southern Xinjiang, China. It resulted in an increase of iodine intake by plants, possible benefits on rice production, increased iodine uptake by the thyroids of sheep and chickens, increased iodine in eggs and increased survival of newborn lambs. Manual addition of iodine to standing water. In this approach, iodine is added directly to vessels containing drinking water. It has been used most notably in northern Thailand, particularly to improve iodine nutrition in schoolchildren. A review of water iodization programs (166) concluded that when properly monitored, the procedure is efficient in controlling iodine deficiency in smaller communities. But it is generally more expensive than iodized salt in large-scale national programs and that it is unlikely to be self-sustaining in poor rural countries and thus requires permanent external funding. CURRENT GLOBAL STATUS OF IDD CONTROL PROGRAMS Until 1990, only a few countries Switzerland, some of the Scandinavian countries, Australia, the U.S. and Canada were completely iodine sufficient. Since then, globally, the number of households using iodized salt has risen from <20% to >70%, dramatically reducing iodine deficiency (172). This effort has been achieved by a coalition of international organizations, including ICCIDD (now IGN), WHO, MI and UNICEF, working closely with national IDD control committees and the salt industry; this informal partnership was established after the World Summit for Children in 1990. The two most commonly used approaches to assessing iodine nutrition on the population level are estimation of the household penetration of adequately iodized salt (HHIS)
