The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


Summit for Children in 1990. The two most commonly used approaches to assessing iodine nutrition on the population level are estimation of the household penetration of adequately iodized salt (HHIS) and measurement of urinary iodine concentrations (UICs) (173). UIC surveys are usually done in school aged children (SAC), because they are a convenient population, easy to reach through school based surveys and usually representative of the general population (173). Therefore, WHO use UICs from 6-12 y-old children in nationally-representative surveys, expressed as the median in µg/L, to classify a population’s iodine status ( Table 1 ). More countries are beginning to carry out studies in high-risk population groups, i.e. women of reproductive age, pregnant women and younger children, however data is limited and the majority of countries still conduct routine iodine monitoring in SAC (174). In 2017, representative UIC surveys are available for 139 countries. There are no up-to-date UIC data available for 55 countries. Available UIC data now cover >98% of the world’s population of SAC (174). Figure 7 Shows countries classified by iodine nutrition in 2017 according to degree of public health importance based on the median UIC. Iodine intake is inadequate in 19 countries, adequate in 110 and excessive in 10. There are no up-to-date UIC data available for 55 countries. Reference (174). Overall, approximately 75% of households worldwide have access to iodized salt. Those with the greatest access are living in the WHO regions of the Western Pacific and the Americas, and those with the least access are residing in the Eastern Mediterranean region (175,176). The International Child Development Steering Group identified iodine deficiency as one of four key global risk factors for impaired child development where the need for intervention is urgent (177). But controlling IDD in the remaining 1/3 rd of the global population at risk will not be easy. Although the key contributors to successful national programs have been identified (1), reaching economically disadvantaged groups living in remote areas and convincing small scale salt producers to iodize their salt are major challenges. An important strategy will be to strengthen national coalitions that include government partners, national and international agencies, the health-care sector and salt producers. In the countries that have begun iodized salt programs, sustainability will become a major focus. These programs are fragile and require a long-term commitment from governments. In several countries where iodine deficiency had been eliminated, salt iodization programs
