The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


programs, sustainability will become a major focus. These programs are fragile and require a long-term commitment from governments. In several countries where iodine deficiency had been eliminated, salt iodization programs fell apart, and iodine deficiency recurred (178). Children in iodine deficient areas are vulnerable to even short-term lapses in iodized salt programs (179). To this end, countries should monitor the state of their iodine nutrition every three years and report to the World Health Assembly on their progress (180). Advocacy should focus on damage to reproduction and cognitive development. Governments need to understand the serious impact of iodine deficiency; many still equate iodine deficiency with goiter, a mostly cosmetic problem and thus a low priority. IDD is one of the most important causes of preventable neurocognitive impairment worldwide, and elimination of IDD can contribute to at least five of the Millennium Development Goals (181): 1) Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger; 2) Achieve universal primary education; 3) Reduce child mortality; 4) Improve maternal health; and 5) Develop a global partnership for development. The World Bank (182) strongly recommends that governments invest in micronutrient programs, including salt iodization, to promote development, concluding: “Probably no other technology offers as large an opportunity to improve lives at such low cost and in such a short time.” MONITORING THE IMPACT OF PROGRAMS OF SALT IODIZATION The social process for successful implementation of a national IDD control program includes the following components (1): situation assessment communication of results to health professionals, political authorities and the public development of an action plan implementation of the plan evaluation of its impact at population level The last phase, monitoring, is often neglected not only because it is the last phase in the process, but because it may be overshadowed by other components of the program such as implementation. In addition, many countries affected by IDD are low-income countries without the financial or technical resources to support a laboratory needed to properly monitor salt quality and iodine status. The most cost-effective way to achieve the virtual elimination of IDD is through universal salt iodization, USI. The indicators used in monitoring and evaluating IDD control programs include both indicators to monitor and evaluate the salt iodization process, as well as indicators to monitor the impact of salt iodization on the target populations (these have been discussed previously). Table 10 summarizes the criteria for monitoring progress towards sustainable elimination of IDD as
