The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


of Japan (91) due to daily intake of seaweeds rich in iodine or, in Eastern China, because of the high iodine content of the drinking water from shallow wells (92), the prevalence of thyroid enlargement and goiter is high, as compared to populations with normal iodine intakes. Also, the prevalence of subclinical hypothyroidism is elevated. The mechanisms behind this impairment of thyroid function are probably both iodine enhancement of thyroid autoimmunity and reversible inhibition of thyroid function by excess iodine (the Wolff-Chaikoff effect) in susceptible subjects (185). However, this type of thyroid failure has not been observed in neonates after the administration of huge doses of iodized oil to their mothers during pregnancy (162). Increased thyroid volume in children due to iodine excess has been observed when the median urinary iodine is >500 μg/L (186). Iodine-induced hyperthyroidism, IIH Iodine-induced hyperthyroidism (IIH) is the main complication of iodine prophylaxis. It has been reported in most iodine supplementation programs (187). But it is rare following a well executed program of iodine supplementation, for example as in Iran (188). The outbreak of IIH most extensively investigated occurred in Tasmania in the late 1960’s. This followed iodine supplementation simultaneously by tablets of iodide, iodized bread and the use of iodophors by the milk industry (189). The incidence of hyperthyroidism increased from 24/100000 in 1963 to 125/100000 in 1967. The disease occurred most frequently in individuals over 40 years of age with multinodular goiter and preexisting heart diseases (189). The most severe manifestations were cardiovascular and were occasionally fatal. The epidemic lasted about 10 to 12 years, but it was followed by an incidence of hyperthyroidism somewhat less than that existing prior to the epidemic. The introduction of iodized salt in Zimbabwe resulted in a sharp increase in the incidence of IIH from 3/100000 to 7/100000 over 18 months (190). A high risk of IIH was also reported from Eastern Congo following the introduction of iodized salt (191). A multicenter study conducted in seven African countries, including Zimbabwe and Congo (192) showed that the occurrence of IIH in the last two countries was due to the sudden introduction of poorly monitored and excessively iodized salt in populations which had been severely iodine deficient for very long periods in the past. The conclusion of the study was that the risk of IIH was related to a rapid increment of iodine intake resulting in a state of
