The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


long periods in the past. The conclusion of the study was that the risk of IIH was related to a rapid increment of iodine intake resulting in a state of acute iodine overload. IIH following iodine fortification of salt cannot be entirely avoided even when fortification provides only physiological amounts of iodine. In a well-controlled longitudinal study in Switzerland, the incidence of hyperthyroidism transiently increased by 27% during one year after the iodine supply was increased from 90 μg/day to 150 μg/day (193). The reason for the development of IIH after iodine fortification and/or supplementation is thought to be that iodine deficiency increases thyrocyte proliferation and mutation rates which, in turn, trigger the development of multifocal autonomous growth with scattered cell clones harboring activation mutations of the TSH receptors (194). Measurement of total intrathyroidal iodine by means of X-ray fluorescence scanning shows that only some nodules keep their capacity to store iodine, become autonomous and cause hyperthyroidism (195). It should be noted that there is considerable anecdotal evidence that increased iodine intake in patients with Graves’ disease may exacerbate hyperthyroidism in susceptible patients. It thus appears that IIH can be considered one of the iodine deficiency disorders, and it may be largely unavoidable in the early phase of iodine repletion in iodine deficient populations, particularly in those with moderate to severe iodine deficiency. Its incidence reverts to normal or even below normal after one to ten years of iodine supplementation (196). Iodine-induced thyroiditis Another potential complication of excessive iodine intake is the aggravation or the induction of autoimmune thyroiditis by iodine supplementation. In experimental conditions, excessive iodine intake can precipitate spontaneous thyroiditis in genetically predisposed strains of beagles, rats or chickens (196). Potential mechanisms involved in iodine-induced thyroiditis in animal models include: 1) triggering of thyroid autoimmune reactivity by increasing the immunogenicity of thyroglobulin; and/or 2) damage to the thyroid and cell injury by free radicals. Attention was drawn to iodine-induced thyroiditis in humans when studies conducted in the United States following the implementation of salt iodization showed an increased frequency of Hashimoto’s thyroiditis in goiters removed by surgery (197). Studies following the introduction of iodized oil in Greece pointed out the possible development of thyroid autoantibodies (198). Kahaly et al. (199) reported the development of thyroid autoantibodies and lymphocytic infiltration in 6 out of 31 patients with endemic goiter treated during 6 months with a dose of 500 μg
