The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


al. (199) reported the development of thyroid autoantibodies and lymphocytic infiltration in 6 out of 31 patients with endemic goiter treated during 6 months with a dose of 500 μg potassium iodide (KI) per day. Acute massive iodine overload (daily consumption of at least 50 mg iodine daily) in healthy adults resulted in a sharp increase in thyroid peroxidase antibody titers together with elevated prevalence of goiter and serum TSH values. The prevalence of all abnormalities decreased after removal of iodine excess (202). Finally, cross sectional studies of populations with different iodine intakes in Italy (63), Great Britain (64) and more recently in Denmark and Iceland (65) showed that the frequency of thyroid autoantibodies and hypothyroidism is higher in iodine replete populations than in iodine deficient populations. It is also recognized that the frequency of thyroid antibodies (200) and of autoimmune thyroiditis (201) is higher in the United States than in Europe, while the iodine intake is lower in Europe. Hypothyroidism To investigate the effects of iodine intake on thyroid disorders in China, a prospective 5-year survey was done in three rural communities with mildly deficient, more than adequate (previously mildly deficient iodine intake), and excessive iodine intake (median UIs of 88, 214 and 634 µg/L, respectively) (203,204). High iodine intakes did not increase rates of overt hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism, but did increase cumulative incidence of subclinical hypothyroidism (0.2 percent, 2.6 percent, and 2.9 percent, respectively) and autoimmune thyroiditis (0.2 percent, 1.0 percent, and 1.3 percent, respectively). In most people, these disorders were not sustained. Denmark has documented the pattern of thyroid disease after careful introduction of iodized salt. Pederson et al (205,206) prospectively identified new cases of overt hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism in Denmark before and for the first 6-7 yr after introduction of iodized salt. There was a moderate increase in the incidence rate of overt hypothyroidism (RR = 1.35; 95% CI = 1.11-1.66) that occurred primarily in young and middle-aged subjects with previously moderate iodine deficiency. The overall incidence rate of hyperthyroidism also increased, from 102.8 to 138.7/100,000/year. But in contrast to IIH, many of the new cases were observed in younger adults (20-39 y), and were presumably of autoimmune origin. Thyroid cancer (TC) In animals, chronic overstimulation of the thyroid by TSH can produce thyroid neoplasms (207). However, the relationship between thyroid cancer and endemic goiter has long been debated without agreement on a possible causal relationship
