The Iodine Deficiency Disorders
KEYWORDS: iodine, thyroid, deficiency, iodine deficiency, goiter, endemic, salt, iodized, intake, development, clin, children, endocrinol, cretinism, population


of the thyroid by TSH can produce thyroid neoplasms (207). However, the relationship between thyroid cancer and endemic goiter has long been debated without agreement on a possible causal relationship (208-212). The available evidence suggests iodine deficiency is a risk factor for thyroid cancer, particularly for follicular TC and possibly, for anaplastic TC (213). A recent review (213) concluded that: a) there are consistent data showing an increase in thyroid cancer (mainly follicular) in iodine deficient animals; b) there is a plausible mechanism (chronic TSH stimulation induced by iodine deficiency); c) there is consistent data from before and after studies of iodine prophylaxis showing a decrease in follicular thyroid cancer and anaplastic thyroid cancer; d) there is an indirect association between changes in iodine intake and thyroid cancer mortality in the decade from 2000 to 2010; e) autopsy studies of occult thyroid cancer show higher microcarcinoma rates with lower iodine intakes; and f) case control studies suggest a lower risk of TC with higher total iodine intakes. It appears the prognosis of thyroid cancer is significantly improved following iodine supplementation due to a shift towards differentiated forms of thyroid cancer that are diagnosed at earlier stages. Overall, it appears that correction of iodine deficiency decreases the risk of, and the morbidity from, thyroid cancer (2013). Thus, the benefits of correcting iodine deficiency far outweigh its risks (63, 214, 215). Iodine-induced hyperthyroidism and other adverse effects can be almost entirely avoided by adequate and sustained quality assurance and monitoring of iodine supplementation which should also confirm adequate iodine intake. In summary, enormous progress has been made globally over the past two decades in understanding and eliminating iodine deficiency as the major cause of preventable brain damage in the fetus, newborn and infant and as a cause of thyroid disorders in adults. Three quarters of the world’s population now has access to iodine on a daily basis through edible iodized salt, but sustainability remains a challenge in many countries. Many recent excellent clinical research studies have revealed that IDD are not confined to remote, mountainous areas in developing countries as we once thought, but are a global public health problem that affects most countries, including developed countries and island nations (216). The recognition of the universality of iodine deficiency highlights the need for more research into the pathogenesis and consequences of mild to moderate iodine deficiency and the development of new strategies
