Chapter
KEYWORDS: interventions, health, cases, control, program, countries, percent, intervention, disease, ofthe, study, use, care, new, years


Improving the Health of Populations: Lessons of Experience Carol Ann Medlin, Mushtaque Chowdhury, Dean T. Jamison, and Anthony Measham In the past 50 years,the world has experienced enormous and countries than income growth. Furthermore, improvements unprecedented gains in the health of human populations. in health brought about by investments in technological Progress has been especially apparent in developing countries. progress generate an important and positive feedback Average life expectancy has risen by more than 60 percent,from loop favoring economic growth and development in these 40 years in 1950 to 65 years today.In 1950,roughly 28 percent countries. of children died before their fifth birthday, but by 1990, this An important question that follows is what can be done to number had fallen to 10 percent. Furthermore, many of the further consolidate these gains and ensure that the fruits of world’s most deadly and debilitating diseases, including lep- scientific and technology progress are placed in the hands of rosy, measles, poliomyelitis (polio), and many childhood ill- the people in developing countries who stand to benefit most? nesses,have been effectively contained in most areas and virtu- Because the work of the Disease Control Priorities Project ally eliminated in others. Smallpox, a highly contagious and (DCPP) focuses primarily on identifying the most cost- deadly disease that affected more than 50 million people a year effective interventions for diseases and conditions affecting the Researchers have identified economic growth, rising vides the starting point for analysis.The goal is to isolate the incomes,and better living conditions brought about by rapid critical factors—in particular those “actionable”through spe- social and political transformations in many societies as major cific public policies—that have contributed to the effective recent years, the role of scientific and technological progress gies and services in low-income settings. has emerged as a crucial,but little understood,factor underly- To address this question,the DCPP joined forces with the ing these gains.As Davis (1956,306–7) observes,“It seems clear Center for Global Development in Washington,DC,to create that the great reduction of mortality in underdeveloped areas the What Works Working Group, which was funded by the since 1940 has been brought about mainly by the discovery of DCPP and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. DCPP new methods ofdisease treatment applicable at reasonable cost authors were asked to identify outstanding examples of suc- [and] by the diffusion ofthese new methods.” cessful implementation of programs and projects geared Newresearchhassoughttovalidate,andindeedquantify, toward the deployment of proven cost-effective
