Chapter
KEYWORDS: interventions, health, cases, control, program, countries, percent, intervention, disease, ofthe, study, use, care, new, years


overdetermining allow us to reach tentative conclusions about the most signifi- causality rather than overlooking or ignoring key factors cant elements associated with the interventions’success. related to success. In a related point, the study design makes ThestudythusfollowedoneofMill’s(1843)fivemethodsof discerning the relative contributions ofthe various factors dif- experimental reasoning: the method of agreement. Such a ficult,because weights cannot be assigned easily. method postulates that“if two or more instances of the phe- Remarkably few rigorous studies of this sort attempt to nomenon(A)...haveonlyonecircumstance(B)incommon, track the implementation of proven, cost-effective interven- thecircumstance(B)inwhichalonealltheinstancesagreeisthe tions in the field.Although we have a good understanding of cause(oreffect)ofthegivenphenomenon(A).”Forthisstudy, the efficacy ofthe available arsenal ofinterventions for treating thephenomenon(A)isrepresentedbysuccess.Casesthatqual- and preventing diseases specific to low-income countries, we ifiedassuccesseshadtoconformtothefollowingfivecriteria: often know little about the range of programmatic and policy options that are needed to support these interventions in the • Scale. All cases selected for study involved a national, real world.This study represents the first major contribution regional, or global scale. Pilot projects or interventions toward the development of a body of knowledge in that area, implemented on a subnational scale were not considered. and the preliminary conclusions reached should be understood • Importance. Selected cases addressed a problem of major in that context (Collier and Brady 2004). program’s inception, in terms of disability-adjusted life years, a composite measure of mortality and morbidity CASES caused by the disease. • Health impact. Selected cases had documented evidence of From an initial set of nominations received from DCPP tion targeted by the intervention.Process indicators,includ- we selected a subset of17 cases for study.We could not consider ing immunization coverage rates, were not considered an many cases that were nominated because of the absence • Duration. All cases selected for study had a life span of at of the many successes in international health that have been least five consecutive years. achieved during the past 50 years, not the full universe. • Cost-effectiveness. Selected cases relied on interventions Nonetheless, the cases draw from all three continents of the that had been proven to be cost-effective at a threshold developing world—Africa, Asia, and Latin America and the of approximately US$100 per disability-adjusted life year Caribbean—and involve both communicable and noncommu- saved. nicable diseases as well as curative and preventive care. Most 166 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Carol Ann Medlin, Mushtaque Chowdhury, Dean Jamison, and others cases are national-level programs, but a few involve regional
