Chapter
KEYWORDS: interventions, health, cases, control, program, countries, percent, intervention, disease, ofthe, study, use, care, new, years


preventive care. Most 166 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Carol Ann Medlin, Mushtaque Chowdhury, Dean Jamison, and others cases are national-level programs, but a few involve regional droppedby36and43percent,respectively.Mortalityattrib- initiatives,and one is global. utedtodiarrheafell82percentamonginfantsand62per- Many near misses did not make the cut. The reasons for centamongchildren.Theprojectclosedin1991. this exclusion varied. For example, a program in Costa Rica, • Guinea worm eradication. Twenty countries in Asia and ElSalvador,and Guatemala to promote hand washing appears Sub-Saharan Africa began a global campaign to eradicate to have resulted in a dramatic decline in child morbidity guinea worm in the mid 1980s. Led by the Carter Center, andmortality but did not meet the duration criterion because the United Nations Children’s Fund, the U.S. Centers for a successful schistosomiasis control program in the Arab safety through deep-well digging, environmental control, Republic of Egypt that included treatment of blood flukes in and the use ofcloth filters for drinking water;health educa- infected individuals was later linked to high prevalence rates of tion programs; and case management, containment, and (Frank and others 2000). Nonetheless, the most common lion cases of guinea worm had been prevented and global rationale for excluding a case from this study had to do with a prevalence had dropped by 99 percent.The project is ongo- lack ofconsistent documentation and ofanalysis ofthe health ing in three countries. impact ofthe program in question.Thus,a reasonable conclu- • Family planning. In Bangladesh,family planning has been sion is that the true universe of cases is much larger than the promoted since the 1970s through a door-to-door outreach subset ofcases we examined. program conducted by young,married women who provide Each case reviewed here illustrates how a discrete health information about limiting family size or spacing pregnan- intervention or combination of interventions was successfully cies along with products. An extensive media campaign brought to scale in a specific context.To gain insight into this accompanied the outreach program. Health impact— process, we can distinguish between the intervention—for Contraceptive use among married women in Bangladesh is example,the tool or technology that has been proven to be cost- approximately 50 percent today,compared with only 8 per- effective for the treatment or prevention of a given disease— cent in the mid 1970s,and the average number of children and the programmatic characteristics and policies that per family is 3.3,down from 7 in the mid 1970s.The project contributed to the successful delivery or deployment of the is
