Chapter
KEYWORDS: interventions, health, cases, control, program, countries, percent, intervention, disease, ofthe, study, use, care, new, years


control. The Moroccan National Blindness now symptom free.In Central and East Africa,the program Control Program, launched in 1991, promoted the use of has helped prevent an estimated 40,000 cases of blindness “SAFE” interventions (surgery, antibiotics to control the each year. The Onchocerciasis Control Program (OCP) infection, facial cleanliness, and environmental improve- ended in 2002.The African Programmefor Onchocerciasis ments), with the goal of eliminating trachoma by 2005. Control is ongoing. Health impact—Overall prevalence rates have fallen by Organization launched a campaign to eradicate polio from children under the age of10 has seen a 90 percent reduction the Americas.National vaccine days were held twice a year since 1997.The project is ongoing. and were targeted at children under the age of five,regard- • Tuberculosis control. In 1991, China launched a 10-year less of their immunization status, to increase coverage in program in 13 of its 31 mainland provinces to apply the countries with weak routine immunization programs. An directly observed therapy short course(DOTS) strategy to extensive surveillance system and mop-up campaigns to turberculosis (TB) control.Peru,previously one of23 high- address outbreaks were crucial during the campaign’s final burden countries that collectively account for 80 percent of • Salt fluoridation. In Jamaica,a formal agreement between achieved a 95 percent cure rate for new cases and a cure rate the Ministry ofHealth and the country’s only salt producer of 90 percent for those patients who had previously com- introduced fluoridation to salt in 1987 to prevent caries. pleted treatment unsuccessfully.The number ofpeople with 168 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Carol Ann Medlin, Mushtaque Chowdhury, Dean Jamison, and others TB declined by more than 37 percent between 1999 and public sector’s regulatory or legislative authority was critical. 2000. The project ended in 2001, but important elements Governments in Poland and South Africa passed strict laws, have been incorporated in the 10-year National Plan for the despite strong opposition from the tobacco industry,requiring incidence declined each year by 6 percent. The program in enclosed public places, and prohibiting tobacco media achieved a case detection rate of 70 percent and an 85 per- advertisements, among other things. Governments also used cent cure rate.The project is ongoing. their authority creatively to encourage health-promoting behaviors and to discourage risky ones.In Mexico,the govern- GENERAL FINDINGS ment provided direct cash payments to poor families in exchange for visits to health care clinics and school attendance. first two have special relevance
