Chapter
KEYWORDS: interventions, health, cases, control, program, countries, percent, intervention, disease, ofthe, study, use, care, new, years


what is currently understood about per disability-adjusted life year. In the case of onchocerciasis whether weak policy environments can make good use ofcare- period of28 years,transmission has been virtually halted in 20 tion indicates,different types ofprogrammatic characteristics West African countries,and nearly 600,000 cases of blindness and policies are needed for the deployment of different types have been averted at an annual cost of only US$1 per person. of interventions. How these characteristics interact with dif- In the case of guinea worm control, in which donors have ferent policy environments—whether strong, weak, or in invested approximately US$88 million over a 12-year period, between—deserves further scrutiny and exploration.Second, disease prevalence has fallen by 99 percent, and only 35,000 evidence from the cases of successful government action people remain affected, down from 3.5 million, at a cost of should call into question any premature and overly general US$5 to US$8 per person. conclusions about public sector ineffectiveness in developing Country ownership was another distinguishing feature of countries.Even though such a small sample of cases is surely successful programs. A government’s willingness to commit insufficient to close the book on these important policy scarce funding to scaling up an intervention can be an impor- debates,it should at least encourage further study and refine- tant indication ofthis ownership,although not the sole predic- ment ofthe arguments. tor. Despite the extremely constrained budgets of the seven participating countries, the campaign to eliminate measles in southern Africa was almost entirely funded by their min- INTERVENTION TYPE, PROGRAMMATIC 96 percent ofthe cost ofthe 100 Percent Condom Program.In Morocco,the government bore the bulk ofthe costs for imple- Programmatic characteristics and policies associated with menting the SAFE strategy to address blindness caused by tra- successful outcomes appear to vary by intervention type. choma,with contributions from the United Nations Children’s Thestarting point for this discussion is the intervention,tech- Fund and the International Trachoma Initiative, an interna- nology, or tool in question. What allows for the widespread tional public-private partnership. deployment of a proven,cost-effective intervention? What are Most ofthe cases we reviewed benefited from new research the steps for converting a proven, cost-effective intervention findings and technical innovation. Successful cases appear to into a fully fledged health program that has been successfully display the openness and receptivity needed to make good use brought to scale,preferably at the national level? Is it possible of new knowledge and to support ongoing research when to distinguish
