Chapter
KEYWORDS: interventions, health, cases, control, program, countries, percent, intervention, disease, ofthe, study, use, care, new, years


a similar dilemma with regard to establishing throughout the country.In just eight years,the teams carried aneffectivesystemofoutreachandreferraltoaddressagrow- out more than 26,000 surgeries. The effort required the ing TB problem by scaling up DOTS. Although DOTS is involvement of 43 physicians and 119 nurses working in relatively standardized as far as service interventions go (see 34 clinics.However,despite the relatively standardized nature chapter 16), the treatment protocol is highly transaction of this kind of service-intensive intervention,human capacity intensive,andcomplicatedcasesmayrequirespecializedtreat- constraints may slow progress. Compared with product- ment.DOTSisthusalsohighlydependentonwell-developed intensive interventions for which community volunteers can be systems of outreach and referral for its success. However, recruited to assist with distribution,service-intensive interven- Chinafacedachallengingsituationbecausemostvillagedoc- tions require a more specialized workforce.Even when nurses torswhowereneededtoconductpatientdiagnosis,treatment, and other health workers with lower-level skills can substitute and surveillance in rural areas were in private practice and for more highly trained physicians, constraints on human hadlittleincentivetotreatpatientsforwhomdrugswerenow resource capacity may persist. Morocco faces a backlog of provided free of charge. In response, the government created about 15,000 cases,many ofwhich are urgent. a financial scheme to provide incentives for these doctors to participate. For each patient enrolled in the treatment pro- Strengthened Outreach and Referral Systems. If the inter- gram, village doctors received US$1. They received an vention is not easily standardized,or if it is highly transaction additional US$2 for each smear examination carried out in intensive,its successful deployment will also depend on well- the county TB dispensary during a two-month period and developed outreach and referral systems.Outreach systems are another US$4 for each patient who completed treatment. needed to ensure that those requiring care will have access to Simultaneously,thegovernmentmadesignificantadministra- care,and referral systems are needed to route patients requir- tive, managerial, and institutional investments. Tens of ing additional care toward specialized care and treatment facil- thousands of staff from TB dispensaries were trained, and ities.However,ensuring that such systems are in place for spe- supervisory systems were put into place. Furthermore, the cific programs and projects is a major challenge in countries governmentsetupanationalTBprojectofficeandaTBcon- where the health care system is already weak and under consid- trol center to oversee and coordinate the various levels of erable strain. governmentinvolvement. 174 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Carol Ann Medlin, Mushtaque Chowdhury, Dean Jamison, and others Demand-Side Incentives. Demand-side incentives can be received more on-the-job training,and clinics benefited from a designed to complement supply-side investments.Indeed,both steadier flow ofpharmaceutical and other supplies. skeptics and supporters of governments’
