Chapter
KEYWORDS: interventions, health, cases, control, program, countries, percent, intervention, disease, ofthe, study, use, care, new, years


Demand-Side Incentives. Demand-side incentives can be received more on-the-job training,and clinics benefited from a designed to complement supply-side investments.Indeed,both steadier flow ofpharmaceutical and other supplies. skeptics and supporters of governments’ ability to translate public spending into effective service provision and positive Summary. In sum, service-intensive interventions are highly as a means of quality control to improve routine care (Filmer, intensive interventions. The more standardized the interven- Hammer, and Pritchett 2000). Economists consider demand- tion, the more likely that it can be delivered by means of side incentives to be valuable tools for stimulating weak military-like campaigns in the same manner as product- artificially dampen demand.This was how at least two of the workers involved will need to be higher. If complications of cases included in this study constructively used demand-side treatment are possible—or ifthe intervention cannot easily be incentives. However, in neither case was this use an either-or standardized—its deployment will likely require fairly elabo- proposition;that is,both demand-side and supply-side invest- rate systems of outreach and referral. Although recent ments were relied on to generate the successful outcomes that scholarship has strongly encouraged the use of demand-side qualified the cases for this study. mechanisms, particularly in an effort to address quality con- In Peru, the newly revised National Tuberculosis Control cerns in public sector service provision,evidence from the cases Program offered food packages, employment training, and highlighted in this chapter suggests that a variety ofmodalities stipends to patients to improve compliance with the drug treat- are possible and that a mix of supply- and demand-side ment regime. Simultaneously, the program was dramatically incentives may even be desirable. scaled up and the number of participating health centers rose from 977 to 6,539 over the next decade.In the clinics,nurses Behavioral Change Interventions were the medical personnel responsible for administering DOTS. In isolated rural areas, the program recruited local Behavioral change interventions (box 8.3) are designed to leaders to serve under the direction of the nursing staff to induce or encourage an individual behavior change or habit administer the treatment and follow up with patients. modification to achieve specific health goals. The focus is nally known as PROGRESA,but now called “Oportunidades”) example,the use oforal rehydration therapy to treat childhood also provides a compelling example ofhow a program can use diarrhea. Behavioral change interventions are often linked to care services.The program offers cash transfers to families in insecticide-treated bednets.However,unlike product-intensive exchange for the attendance
