Chapter
KEYWORDS: interventions, health, cases, control, program, countries, percent, intervention, disease, ofthe, study, use, care, new, years


strategies and policy their husbands’objections if they were opposed to the use of instruments and that some are more effective than others at contraceptives.The fact that the campaign and the provision of alteringhowindividualsperceiveriskandweighthecostsand contraceptive commodities addressed an unmet need among benefits of behavioral change. Chapter 11, for example, pro- Bangladeshi women may provide a partial explanation for the vides an in-depth discussion of how and when fiscal instru- rapid acceptance of the program when it was launched on a ments may be used effectively to alter producers’ and con- large scale. sumers’decisionsinwaysthatencouragehealthybehaviors. Regulatory Policies. By contrast, other behavioral changes, Information,Education,and Communication. Recent stud- such as using condoms to prevent HIV infection and other ies have challenged the effectiveness of mass IEC campaigns sexually transmitted infections and stopping smoking, have (Kremer and Miguel 2003), and evidence from the cases clearly been harder to induce,although the precise reasons for appears to support a degree of healthy skepticism. However, this difficulty remain elusive (see,in particular,chapters 18 and IEC campaigns did appear to have an effect in the cases under 46). Nevertheless, evidence from the cases suggests that gov- review when they were accompanied by the promotion of a ernments can put the right mix of policies in place to either increase if the product was adapted to fit the local circum- behaviors. For example, they may use regulatory policies to stances or cultural context.In Sub-Saharan Africa,educational ensure compliance through nonfinancial means and may com- campaigns to stop transmission ofthe guinea worm to humans plement these by using fines and sanctions as an enforcement have encouraged the construction and maintenance of safe mechanism. water sources (through deep-well digging and the application The Thai government’s 100 Percent Condom Program is an of larvicide to contaminated ponds) and the use of cloth or excellent example ofsuch a strategy.In 1991,the National AIDS nylon filters to purify drinking water,in addition to case iden- Committee launched a national program to be implemented at tification and containment.The primary IEC tool was so-called the provincial level requiring all workers in brothels and other community mobilization. client not using a condom.The program had several compo- a primary target of the campaign to promote the use of oral during regular health checks and a media campaign to raise rehydration salts for the treatment of diarrhea in children, awareness of the risks of HIV and the dangers associated with especially those under three years
