Chapter
KEYWORDS: interventions, health, cases, control, program, countries, percent, intervention, disease, ofthe, study, use, care, new, years


a media campaign to raise rehydration salts for the treatment of diarrhea in children, awareness of the risks of HIV and the dangers associated with especially those under three years of age. Television was the unprotected sex.What gave the program its unique character primary educational medium and proved to be an effective was its regulatory and enforcement component.Local govern- illiterate households.Appropriate product design and branding for monitoring and enforcing condom use in the brothels. were essential. Oral rehydration salt packets were supplied in Those brothels that failed to comply with the strict policy a 200-milliliter size, not the standard 1-liter packs, because would be fined or forced to shut down.The results were impres- mothers did not have appropriate containers at home and sive. Condom use in brothels exceeded 90 percent in just the felt that a full liter was too much to give to a child to drink. first year ofthe program,up from 14 percent in 1989.Thenum- By contrast, in Bangladesh, where few households had access ber of new HIV infections fell by more than 80 percent,from to door to teach mothers how to make the solution in their program appears to have generated important spillover effects, homes. or externalities, in unexpected places. For example, studies 176 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Carol Ann Medlin, Mushtaque Chowdhury, Dean Jamison, and others indicate that indirect sex workers—a group that cannot be Environmental Control Interventions reached through similar enforcement strategies—have also As with behavioral change interventions, environmental con- begun to insist that their clients use condoms. trolinterventionsaregearedtowardpreventionandareusedin conjunctionwithothertreatmentsoralonewheneffectivevac- Taxation and Subsidies. Another option for discouraging cines or other prophylaxes are unavailable. However, rather high-risk behaviors is the adoption oftaxation policies.A 1997 thanfocusonriskfactorsassociatedwithindividualbehavior, study by the World Bank in partnership with the World Health environmental control interventions target risks associated Organization found that a price increase of10 percent on cig- with the physical environment that are largely beyond the arettes would lower smoking rates by about 4 percent in high- individual’s control.The physical environment refers to media income countries and about 8 percent in low-income countries inthenatural(water,air,orsoil)orman-made(housing,roads) (Jha and Chaloupka 2000,358).In South Africa,a 50 percent environment.Examplesofenvironmentalcontrolinterventions tax on the retail price ofcigarettes contributed to a 30 percent include many vector control strategies, such as aerial and decrease in consumption. In Poland, an increase in taxes on householdspraying,waterandsanitationprojects,andairqual- cigarettes from 30 to 47 percent ofthe retail price,in conjunc- itycontrolmeasures.(See,inparticular,chapters41and43.) tion with
