Chapter
KEYWORDS: interventions, health, cases, control, program, countries, percent, intervention, disease, ofthe, study, use, care, new, years


control strategies, such as aerial and decrease in consumption. In Poland, an increase in taxes on householdspraying,waterandsanitationprojects,andairqual- cigarettes from 30 to 47 percent ofthe retail price,in conjunc- itycontrolmeasures.(See,inparticular,chapters41and43.) tion with other policies—including a ban on smoking in health Few of the cases reviewed for this study involved “pure” care establishments,schools,enclosed spaces in the workplace, environmental control interventions;although in several cases and elsewhere—contributed to a dramatic decline in smoking environmental control measures were coupled with other types rates. Before the fall of communism, Poland had the highest of interventions. Whenever activities involved in executing 1990s, there were 4 million fewer smokers compared with services,nonhealth government agencies will be involved,and theprevious decade,and cigarette consumption had fallen by strong political and technical leadership will be required ofthe 10 percent.These successes led to a 30 percent decrease in lung ministry of health to ensure that proper attention is given to cancer among men age 20 to 44 and a 19 percent decrease health care concerns during implementation. among men age 45 to 64 over the same period. Successful interventions in this category also appeared to be The section on service-intensive investments has already associated with strong multicountry partnerships,particularly discussed the remarkable power ofexplicit subsidies to encour- in relation to vector control activities. This factor raises an age health-promoting behaviors. The Mexican case of PRO- interesting question concerning governments’ capacity to GRESA offers a by now familiar example of such a strategy. engage in these types of partnerships. Technical capacity, Although none of the cases included in this study dealt with although essential,is just the first hurdle,because what is ulti- subsidies explicitly directed at behavioral change interventions, mately required is a political and financial commitment at the evidence suggests that they have a significant effect.However, highest levels in participating countries. as Nugent and Knaul discuss in chapter 11, poorly targeted In the case of Chagas disease control, the Southern Cone subsidies can be costly, particularly relative to the result Initiative brought together the seven countries in the endemic achieved.Much more research is needed in this area to under- region under a coordinated, comprehensive, Chagas disease stand the specific contexts in which subsidies can achieve their control strategy. This multicountry approach was led by the types ofinterventions. that disease transmission from neighboring countries was threatening the health gains achieved under Brazil’s national Summary. In sum, behavioral change interventions differ eradication plan.A central aim ofthe Southern Cone
