Chapter
KEYWORDS: interventions, health, cases, control, program, countries, percent, intervention, disease, ofthe, study, use, care, new, years


ofinterventions. that disease transmission from neighboring countries was threatening the health gains achieved under Brazil’s national Summary. In sum, behavioral change interventions differ eradication plan.A central aim ofthe Southern Cone Initiative from both product-intensive and environmental control was to eliminate the protozoan parasite,Trypanosoma cruzi,in interventions in that they require active participation by the the region by coordinating technical efforts to detect and elim- individual for the intervention to be fully effective. In some inate it. This coordination ensured consistent use of highly cases,this requirement is also true for service-intensive inter- effective control measures across the region and limited any ventions, but it is not as exclusively true as for behavioral possibility ofreinvasion.Infested homes throughout the region change interventions.The degree to which incentives (or disin- were treated with long-lasting pyrethroid insecticides and centives) are needed to induce (or discourage) behavior structurally improved to eliminate hiding places for the blood- depends on the interaction between the usage characteristics of sucking insects that spread the parasite. These coordinated the intervention,the perceived risk of not using the interven- environmental control efforts,combined with blood screening, tion, and the perceived effectiveness of the intervention. To proved to be highly successful at interrupting Chagas disease have an effect,policy incentives (and disincentives) must either transmission in the region. succeed in changing the individual’s risk-benefit assessment or Environmental control interventions also appear to be char- make ignoring the policy extremely costly. acterized by many consecutive years of sustained activity. In Improving the Health of Populations: Lessons of Experience | 177 some cases,this activity may take the form ofongoing mainte- have a critical role to play in providing technical assistance to nance offilters and distribution systems to prevent recontami- countriesinformulatingpoliciesanddevelopingstrategicplans nation.In other cases,as in the case ofvectorborne disease con- thataretailoredtowardtheirspecificneedsandcapabilities. trol in which elimination or eradication is within reach, the Perhaps the most successful example ofbundling interven- intervention must be sustained at least until transmission has tions included in our study is the Moroccan National Blindness been interrupted in humans.(The intervention may need to be Control Program, launched in 1991. The program was based sustained for much longer,or indefinitely,ifthe disease has an on the development in the mid 1980s of SAFE,a comprehen- animal host.) In the case of onchocerciasis,the lifetime of the sive strategy to treat and prevent trachoma.The philosophy of filarial load is 14 years,and vector spraying would need to be the new strategy,which was heavily researched and promoted
