Chapter
KEYWORDS: interventions, health, cases, control, program, countries, percent, intervention, disease, ofthe, study, use, care, new, years


Collier,D.,and H.E.Brady,eds.2004.Rethinking Social Inquiry: Diverse In some respects,the study also presents a sobering view of the difficulties inherent in moving from a cost-effective inter- Davis,K.1956.“The Amazing Decline of Mortality in Underdeveloped vention to a successful program or project.No single formula Areas.”American Economic Review46 (2):305–18. is available, and identification of unique characteristics and Devarajan,S.,D.Dollar,and T.Holmgren.2001.Aid and Reform in Africa: attributes that will permit the large-scale,effective deployment Lessons from Ten Case Studies.Washington,DC:World Bank. ofmany known interventions is difficult. Eckholm, E. 1989.“River Blindness: Conquering an Ancient Scourge.” NewYork Times Magazine,January 8. In addition,evidence from the case studies suggests that the programmatic characteristics and policies associated with suc- Filmer,D.,J.S.Hammer,and L.H.Pritchett.2000.“Weak Links in the Chain:A Diagnosis ofHealth Policy in Poor Countries.”World Bank cessful outcomes vary depending on the type of intervention. Research Observer15 (2):199–224. Although no single formula exists,the implementation of the Frank,C.,M.K.Mohamed,G.T.Strickland,D.Lavanchy,R.R.Arthur, programs and projects structured around various types ofinter- L. S. Magder, and others. 2000. “The Role of Parenteral ventions appears to depend on certain types of organizational, Antischistosomal Therapy in the Spread ofHepatitis C Virus in Egypt.” Lancet 355 (9207):887–91. managerial,and financial capacities that can be anticipated and Jamison,D.T.1993.“Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries: specifically targeted for strengthening before the full-scale An Overview.”In Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries,ed. launch ofa program or project.Thus,the findings ofthis study D.T.Jamison,W.H.Mosley,A.R.Measham,and J.L.Bobadilla,3–34. may serve as pointers for future research seeking to understand New York:Oxford University Press. the range of government capacities that are needed to support ———.2002.“Cost-Effectiveness Analysis:Concepts and Applications.” various contexts and in different parts ofthe world. Economic Growth in an Environment of Partially Endogenous ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Technical Progress.” In Health and Economic Growth: Findings and Policy Implications,ed.G.Lopez-Casasnovas,B.Rivera,and L.Currais, 67–91.Cambridge,MA:MIT Press. The authors gratefully acknowledge the helpful comments and Jha, P., and F. Chaloupka. 2000. “The Economics of Global Tobacco feedback from Gerald T. Keusch, Phil Musgrove, John Control.”British Medical Journal321:358–61. Peabody, and members of the What Works Working Group. Kremer, M., and E. Miguel. 2003. “The Illusion of Sustainability.” Thanks also to Carol Kolb for providing excellent research http:// emlab.berkeley.edu/users/emiguel/miguel_illusion.pdf. assistance.The basic idea for the What Works Working Group, Levine,R.,and the What Works Working Group with Molly Kinder.2004. Center for Global Development. Richard Klausner,and we owe him special acknowledgment. Mill, J. S. 1843.“Of the Four Methods of Experimental Inquiry.”In A System ofLogic,Raciocinative,and Inductive.Book 3.Reprint.Toronto: impact data presented about the 17 cases reviewed for this study are drawn Medicine17 (24):1971–81. from Levine and What Works
