WHO guideline
KEYWORDS: guideline, rhd, rheumatic, prevention, heart, group, disease, fever, rheumatic fever, evidence, streptococcus, development, diagnosis, heart disease, rheumatic heart


city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. Dotted and dashed lines on maps represent approximate border lines for which there may not yet be full agreement. The mention of specific companies or of certain manufacturers’ products does not imply that they are endorsed or recommended by WHO in preference to others of a similar nature that are not mentioned. Errors and omissions excepted, the names of proprietary products are distinguished by initial capital letters. All reasonable precautions have been taken by WHO to verify the information contained in this publication. However, the published material is being distributed without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied. The responsibility for the interpretation and use of the material lies with the reader. In no event shall WHO be liable for damages arising from its use. Acknowledgements The WHO guideline on the prevention and diagnosis of rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease Adolescent Health and Ageing (MCA) under the leadership of Dr Anshu Banerjee (Director). Other departments represented on the WHO Steering Group include: Antimicrobial Resistance, Surveillance, Prevention and Control (AMR); Immunizations, Vaccines and Biologicals (IVB); Control of Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTD); Noncommunicable Diseases (NCD); Sexual and Reproductive Health and Research (SRH); and Quality assurance, Norms and Standards (QNS). Responsible technical officers Bernadette Daelmans, Nigel Rollins and Wilson Were, WHO MCA WHO Steering Group members In addition to the responsible technical officers, the following WHO staff participated in the development process: Representatives from WHO Headquarters Anshu Banerjee, Pedro Albajar Vinas (NTD), Doris Chou (SRH), Martin Friede (IVB), Taskeen Khan (NCD), Carmen Passoa de Silva (AMR), Pura Rayco Solon (QNS), Kate Strong (MCA) Representatives from WHO regional and country offices Africa: Adjoa Abdodjan-Prince, Geoffrey K Bisoborwa, Jean-Marie Dangou Americas: Betzabe Butron Riveros, Anselm Hennis Eastern Mediterranean: Hicham El Berri, Khalid Siddeeg, Slim Slama Europe: Jill Louise Farrington, Martin Will Weber South-East Asia: Gampo Dorji, Rajesh Mehta Western Pacific: Tsogzolmaa Bayandorj, Mark Andrew Jacobs Guideline Development Group WHO would like to thank the members of the Guideline Development Group (GDG) for their commitment, enthusiasm and expertise. The GDG members were: Kampala, Uganda v Elizabeth Machila, Beat RHD, Zambia Ana Olga Mocumbi, Instituto National de Saude, Maputo, Mozambique Prakash Raj Regmi, Nepal Heart Foundation, Lalitpur, Nepal Andrea Beaton and Ana Olga Mocumbi chaired the GDG meetings. External Review Group WHO is grateful for the contributions of the
