WHO guideline
KEYWORDS: guideline, rhd, rheumatic, prevention, heart, group, disease, fever, rheumatic fever, evidence, streptococcus, development, diagnosis, heart disease, rheumatic heart


kill susceptible organisms or keep them from growing. Antimicrobial resistance predates the use of antimicrobials in human medicine and many bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites are intrinsically resistant to some antimicrobials. Microorganisms can also acquire resistance by being exposed to antimicrobials. Infection with antimicrobial-resistant pathogens makes infections harder to treat and increases the risk of disease spread, severe illness and death. Benzathine benzylpenicillin: a long-acting antibiotic for intramuscular administration, also referred to as benzathine penicillin G (BPG). BPG is effective against Streptococcus pyogenes. basic diagnostic tests to classify a patient in terms of the probability of having a target condition or a future health outcome. Clinically-suspected streptococcal throat infection: Pharyngitis is most frequently viral in origin, and antibiotics are therefore of no benefit. However, when throat infection is bacterial, the most common causative agent is GAS. There are consistent signs and symptoms that make GAS pharyngitis more likely, including the presence of sore throat and fever, and a lack of rhinorrhea or cough. The presence of rhinorrhea or cough are more likely in viral pharyngitis. Echocardiography: use of ultrasound to investigate the structure and function of the heart, and a sensitive tool for diagnosing valvular pathology. Standard echocardiography refers to use of fully-functional machines that have become smaller and more portable over time. Handheld echocardiography involves use of devices that lack some features of fully-functional echocardiography machines, such as spectral Doppler, but retain diagnostic capabilities and are typically much more affordable than full-sized machines. Guideline development Certainty of evidence: In the context of evidence syntheses, this phrase refers to the evidence attributes that enable a certain level of confidence that an estimate of an effect or association is correct. In the context of normative or standard-setting product development, the certainty of the evidence determines the level of confidence that the estimates of an effect are adequate to support a particular decision or recommendation (alternative terms: quality of the evidence, confidence in the estimate of effect). Conflict of interest: A set of circumstances that creates a risk that professional judgement or actions regarding a primary interest will be unduly influenced by a secondary interest; any interest declared by an expert that may affect or reasonably be perceived to affect the expert’s objectivity and independence in providing advice. A conflict of interest is of two basic types: financial, and non- financial or intellectual. ix Evidence-to-decision frameworks: These are tabular displays of relevant
