WHO guideline
KEYWORDS: guideline, rhd, rheumatic, prevention, heart, group, disease, fever, rheumatic fever, evidence, streptococcus, development, diagnosis, heart disease, rheumatic heart


objectivity and independence in providing advice. A conflict of interest is of two basic types: financial, and non- financial or intellectual. ix Evidence-to-decision frameworks: These are tabular displays of relevant considerations which decision-makers use to make a decision or to formulate a recommendation. Considerations include benefits, harms, acceptability and feasibility of the intervention; equity; resource implications; among others. GRADE: The Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation is a system for assessing the certainty (quality) of a body of evidence and for structuring considerations when formulating recommendations in clinical or public health guidelines. GRADE evidence tables or GRADE profiles: These are tabular displays of summary measures of effect and the GRADE certainty (quality) assessments of the body of evidence for a specific question (usually defined in Population, Intervention, Comparator and Outcome (PICO) format for questions about interventions). Guideline Development Group: A multidisciplinary group made up of external individual experts from all WHO regions whose central task is to develop evidence-based recommendations, in addition to formulating the general scope and contents of a guideline. Potential members of the Guideline Development Group are identified by the WHO Steering Group and are selected to encompass the technical skills, diverse perspectives and geographical representation needed. Its membership should be balanced in terms of gender and geography. Guideline methodologist: an expert in systematic reviews, GRADE and the translation of evidence into recommendations. Guideline-related research gaps: These represent uncertainties about the facts that arise during the guideline development process and that may affect the recommendation(s). Guideline-related research gaps have various sources, most notably the systematic review(s) and other research or information that supports the domains of the evidence-to-decision framework. Guiding principle: a high-level normative statement that provides guidance or principles underpinning a recommendation or other normative statement, based on human rights standards or conventions, or on ethics principles. Steering Group: a group of staff members from relevant WHO departments at all three levels of the Organization, whose work directly deals with or is relevant to the topic of the guideline and who help direct the process of product development. Systematic review: an objective, reproducible and explicit method of finding answers to specific research questions by searching for and collecting all available studies related to that question, critically appraising relevant primary research, and then analysing and synthesizing the results. … Group A Streptococcus: also referred to as Streptococcus pyogenes or GAS, is a species of beta- haemolytic
