WHO guideline
KEYWORDS: guideline, rhd, rheumatic, prevention, heart, group, disease, fever, rheumatic fever, evidence, streptococcus, development, diagnosis, heart disease, rheumatic heart


critically appraising relevant primary research, and then analysing and synthesizing the results. … Group A Streptococcus: also referred to as Streptococcus pyogenes or GAS, is a species of beta- haemolytic Gram-positive bacteria that is responsible for a wide range of infections. Health education: includes a broad range of approaches and may focus on the communication communication designed to support specific behaviours such as medication adherence or focus on transferable skills and knowledge that equip people to make more autonomous decisions relating to their health and to adapt to changing circumstances. Jones criteria: a set of criteria for diagnosis of rheumatic fever. To establish the diagnosis of rheumatic fever, two major or one major and one minor criteria are required. Last updated in 2015, the Jones criteria remain the standard set of criteria used to diagnose RF. Latent or subclinical RHD: a previously used term that refers to individuals who have structural or functional lesions of the heart caused by RF but who do not experience clinical manifestations. Since the publication of the 2023 WHF Guidelines for the echocardiographic diagnosis of rheumatic heart disease, these terms are no longer used. x WHO guideline on the prevention and diagnosis of rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease Pharyngitis: an inflammation of the throat that is most frequently viral in origin, however, when infection is bacterial, the most common causative agent is Streptococcus pyogenes, a group A beta- haemolytic Streptococcus bacterium. Streptococcal pharyngitis is an important cause of rheumatic fever. Point-of-care testing: medical diagnostic testing at or near the time and place of patient care, using rapid diagnostic tests. Populations: In this guideline, “children” refers to people aged 0–9 years, “adolescents” to people aged 10–19 years, “adults” are people 20 years of age and older, and “young adults” refers to people aged 20–39 years. Prevention of rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease Primordial prevention: aims to avoid episodes of streptococcal infection by addressing poverty, improving living and housing standards including access to clean water and sanitation, reducing Primary prevention: can be achieved through the effective diagnosis and prompt treatment of pharyngitis and perhaps superficial skin infections caused by Streptococcus pyogenes, a group A beta- haemolytic Streptococcus bacterium. Secondary prevention: involves continuous antibiotic prophylaxis given to patients with a previous history of RF/RHD to prevent a recurrence of RF and the onset of RHD, or when RHD has occurred, to limit its progression to more
