WHO guideline
KEYWORDS: guideline, rhd, rheumatic, prevention, heart, group, disease, fever, rheumatic fever, evidence, streptococcus, development, diagnosis, heart disease, rheumatic heart


middle- income countries and in marginalized communities in middle- and high-income countries, including Indigenous populations. RHD is characterized by chronic structural and/or functional changes in the heart, most commonly in the valves, caused by one or more episodes of rheumatic fever (RF). RF is an autoimmune inflammatory reaction to throat infections (pharyngitis) or possibly to superficial skin and skin structure infections (SSSIs) caused by Streptococcus pyogenes, a group A beta-haemolytic Streptococcus (GAS) bacterium. The first episode of RF is commonly seen in children aged 5 to 14 years. Recurrent episodes are most common within 1 year of the first episode but can occur throughout the life course. RHD most commonly starts in childhood with a diagnostic peak in young adults1 aged 20 to 39 years. RHD can lead to death or lifelong disability, however, effective early intervention can prevent premature morbidity and mortality. RHD affected an estimated 55 million people globally and caused 360,000 deaths in 2021 (1). In the twentieth century, the incidence of RF and the prevalence of RHD declined substantially in Europe and North America, and in other high-income settings. However, the gains have not been equitably distributed globally and many regions including sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East, Central and South Asia, tropical Latin America and the South Pacific continue to have endemic RF and RHD. The prevalence of RHD is estimated to peak between the ages of 20 and 29 years, declines steadily until around 50 years when it then remains relatively stable (2). There is a higher prevalence of RHD among women across nearly all world regions (2). burdens of RHD. There are four levels of prevention: 1) reducing GAS infections through improvements in housing, living conditions and sanitation (primordial prevention); 2) treatment of GAS throat infections and possibly GAS skin infections (primary prevention of RF); 3) prevention of recurrence of RF through antibiotic prophylaxis (secondary prevention of RHD onset and progression); and 4) treatment of the complications of RHD with medications including anticoagulants, and cardiac interventions including surgery (tertiary prevention). Scope and target audience for selected topics relating to RF and RHD. It is not intended to encompass all aspects of the prevention, detection and clinical care of the disease in affected populations and subpopulations. Readers are encouraged to identify high-quality, evidence-informed national and local guidance to complement this guideline. This guideline encompasses the following: 1. primary prevention of RF and RHD, specifically the
