WHO guideline
KEYWORDS: guideline, rhd, rheumatic, prevention, heart, group, disease, fever, rheumatic fever, evidence, streptococcus, development, diagnosis, heart disease, rheumatic heart


subpopulations. Readers are encouraged to identify high-quality, evidence-informed national and local guidance to complement this guideline. This guideline encompasses the following: 1. primary prevention of RF and RHD, specifically the identification and treatment of suspected GAS pharyngitis and GAS skin infections; 1 In this guideline, subpopulations defined by age are: children: up to 9 years; adolescents: 10 to 19 years; adults: 20 years and older; and young adults: 20 to 39 years. xiii 2. secondary prevention of recurrent RF and of RHD, specifically the use of long-term antibiotic prophylaxis, interventions to increase adherence to antibiotic prophylaxis regimes, and screening for early RHD; and 3. management of RF, specifically the treatment of RF with anti-inflammatory drugs. This guideline is intended for use by a wide range of audiences, including national and local policy- makers and their expert advisers, as well as technical and programme staff at organizations involved in the prevention of RF and RHD, and the identification and care of people with RF or RHD. The guideline interested in addressing gaps in the evidence. The audience for this guideline is a global one, across diverse settings with varied perspectives and resources. The content is relevant to all Member States, and in particular countries and regions where populations are at moderate/high risk of RF/RHD. Methods These recommendations are based on the most current, high-quality scientific evidence and were formulated following processes and using methods meeting the highest international standards for guideline development, as outlined in the WHO handbook for guideline development (2nd edition, 2014) (3). The main steps for the development of WHO guidelines include: 1) establishment of the general scope of the guideline and development of the key questions and a detailed workplan; 2) identification of contributors to the guideline process including the Guideline Development Group (GDG; a diverse panel of technical experts and other stakeholders); 3) assessment of declarations of interest and management of any conflicts of interest of all contributors; 4) conduct of systematic reviews of the evidence to address the key questions; 5) assessment of the certainty (quality) of the body of evidence for critical and important outcomes; 6) formulation of recommendations by the GDG; 7) drafting of the guideline document for review and approval by the GDG followed by targeted peer review; 8) review and approval by WHO’s quality assurance body; and 9) publication and dissemination. Updating The WHO Secretariat for this guideline will continue to
