WHO guideline
KEYWORDS: guideline, rhd, rheumatic, prevention, heart, group, disease, fever, rheumatic fever, evidence, streptococcus, development, diagnosis, heart disease, rheumatic heart


GDG followed by targeted peer review; 8) review and approval by WHO’s quality assurance body; and 9) publication and dissemination. Updating The WHO Secretariat for this guideline will continue to follow advances in the research on the prevention, diagnosis and management of RF and RHD, particularly for questions for which the certainty (quality) of evidence was found to be low or very low. If new evidence emerges or other important considerations this guideline. Unless new evidence necessitates an earlier review, at 5 years from publication of this guideline, the evidence and appraise the need for updating or revalidating the current guideline. WHO will seek stakeholder input on the scope of the updated guideline, as new interventions and considerations emerge. Guiding principles RF and RHD are associated with poverty, residential overcrowding, insufficient access to clean water following guiding principles, which underpin all of the recommendations in this guideline, as well as their adoption, adaptation and implementation in Member States: 1. Programme managers and health workers should work with local authorities and community leaders to ensure adequate living conditions including access to clean water, adequate sanitation and living spaces, housing, and appropriate ventilation in homes and residences. xiv WHO guideline on the prevention and diagnosis of rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease 2. Policy-makers and programme managers should ensure equitable access to screening and treatment services for people with suspected or confirmed GAS infections and RF/RHD. This applies particularly to vulnerable populations living in areas with moderate/high risk of RF/RHD. All people must have access to high-quality services for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of RF/RHD, as recommended in this guideline.
