Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 February 14; 21(6): 1691-1702
KEYWORDS: liver, gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, patients, probiotics, diseases, lactobacillus, cirrhosis, bacteria, liver diseases, cells, nafld, nash, composition


they also affect the systemic Propionic and butyric acids were shown to regulate immune system. Moreover, interactions between cell proliferation and differentiation, and to induce gut microbiota and the liver[8-12] or brain[13-15] have hormone release, the hepatic control of lipids, and been analyzed. The composition of the microbiota is carbohydrate metabolism. Moreover, several SCFAs also associated with various diseases. In this review, have been shown to exert anti-inflammatory and we summarize the current understanding of the immunomodulatory effects. role of gut microbiota, especially in relation to liver treatment of liver diseases by probiotics. Although we harbor more than 104 bacterial species in the gut and the composition is relatively stable in each person without causing inflammation, the COMPOSITION OF GUT MICROBIOTA mechanisms responsible for maintaining the flora over Methods for analyzing gut microbiota the long term are not yet clearly understood. The Since most of the gut bacteria cannot be cultured, maintenance of the gut flora may be based on immune comprehensive analyses of them have been difficult. tolerance to microbiota because of the formation of Advances in molecular biological techniques have the repertoire of microbiota during early life after birth, enabled the analyses of the whole genomes of gut when the immune system is too immature to eradicate microbiota, and real-time PCR, microarray, and intestinal micro-organisms. pyrosequencing have been applied to improve the Round et al showed that Bacteroides fragilis resolution of the microbial biodiversity and quantifi- could induce immune tolerance to gut microbiota cation of microbial species. Among those gene- by developing and promoting functions of Foxp3+ based methods, DNA pyrosequencing based on 16S regulatory T cells (Tregs) through polysaccharide A rRNA genes is currently the most useful method for produced by the bacteria. In another study, certain comprehensive analysis of gut microbiota with high Clostridium species, especially phylogenetic clusters IV resolution and accurate quantification. and XIV (but not Lactobacillus or Bacteroides species) were the most effective in inducing the differentiation Composition of gut microbiota and its change according of Tregs. Natural killer T (NKT) cells, a subgroup to age of T cells that recognize self-antigens and microbial Claesson et al analyzed the composition of intestinal lipid antigens presented by CD1d, have an important microbiota by pyrosequencing of over 40000 16S role in the development and the composition of gut rRNA gene V4 region amplicons. They found that microbiota through the CD1d molecule. Conversely, the phylum Bacteroides was
