Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 February 14; 21(6): 1691-1702
KEYWORDS: liver, gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, patients, probiotics, diseases, lactobacillus, cirrhosis, bacteria, liver diseases, cells, nafld, nash, composition


over 40000 16S role in the development and the composition of gut rRNA gene V4 region amplicons. They found that microbiota through the CD1d molecule. Conversely, the phylum Bacteroides was the most predominant the development and maturation of mucosal and species of bacteria in 68% of the individuals studied, systemic NKT cells are controlled by commensal gut with an average proportion of 57%, followed by the microbiota. Moreover, CD1d presents self-antigens phylum Firmicutes with an average proportion of and microbial lipid antigens to NKT cells, which are WJG|www.wjgnet.com 1692 February 14, 2015|Volume 21|Issue 6| Minemura M et al. Gut microbiota and liver diseases but rather microbial dysbiosis causes those diseases. Table 2 Changes in gut microbiota in human diseases Diseases Change in microbiota GUT MICROBIOTA AND THE LIVER Allergies Lactobacillus spp. ↓ Since 70% of the liver’s blood is supplied from the Bifidbacterium adolescentis ↓ Clostridium difficile ↓ portal vein, gut-derived toxins and microbial products Helicobacter pylori ↓ constantly enter the liver. The liver could thus be Autism Bacteroidetes ↑ greatly influenced by the composition and function of Proteobacteria ↑ gut microbes, mainly by receiving metabolites derived Actinobacteria ↓ Firmicutes ↓ from the microbes. Obesity Bacteroidetes ↓ In normal conditions, small amounts of bacteria or Lactobacillus ↑ bacterial metabolites enter the liver, and most of them Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio ↓ are eliminated by Kupffer cells with little activation. Type 2 Diabetes Firmicutes ↓ Clostridia ↓ However, when the gut-mucosal barrier is damaged by Betaproteobacteria ↓ intestinal inflammation or portal hypertension, large Bacteroidetes/Firmicutes ratio ↑ amounts of bacteria enter the liver and activate Kupffer Celiac disease Bacteroides vulgatus ↑ cells and hepatic stellate cells. One of the pathogenic Escherichia coli ↓ Clostridium coccoides ↓ bacteria-derived factors is lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and LPS activates those cells via its binding to Toll- like receptor 4 on their surface. Upon the activation of involved in the pathogenesis of human inflammatory those cells, pro-inflammatory cytokines are produced bowel disease. Thus, cross-talk between the mi- and are involved in liver damage. It is of note that crobiota and CD1d-restricted NKT cells plays an im- alcohol was shown to disrupt the intestinal epithelial portant role in microbial homeostasis and intestinal cell tight junctions and impair the functioning of the inflammation. gut barrier, leading to bacterial translocation and These overall data suggest that the immune tole- enhanced entry of bacteria metabolites into the portal rance is important not only for
