Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 February 14; 21(6): 1691-1702
KEYWORDS: liver, gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, patients, probiotics, diseases, lactobacillus, cirrhosis, bacteria, liver diseases, cells, nafld, nash, composition


inflammation. gut barrier, leading to bacterial translocation and These overall data suggest that the immune tole- enhanced entry of bacteria metabolites into the portal rance is important not only for the maintenance of gut vein. microbiota, but also for suppressing harmful immune Moreover, the impaired motility of the intestines, responses to microbiota in the gut. Inflammatory increased epithelial permeability, and increased release bowel diseases are now thought to be caused by an of pro-inflammatory cytokines in the intestines found uncontrolled immune response to gut microbiota. in cases of liver cirrhosis with portal hypertension may affect the liver. Role of gut microbiota in the maturation of the immune system GUT MICROBIOTA AND LIVER DISEASES The role of gut microbiota in gut immune maturation, including the numbers of intestinal CD4+and CD8+ There are several reports on the changes in gut T cells and dendritic cells, has been demonstrated in microbiota in liver diseases, and the representative data mice. The effect of early gut colonization on systemic are summarized in Table 3. immune responses was also shown by Hansen et al, who reported that a single oral inoculation of a bacteria Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease suspension made from caecal content of specific Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common pathogen-free mice to germ-free mice at 3 wk of age, disease all over the world, following the increasing but not at 1 wk of age, permanently changed the gut prevalence of obesity and metabolic syndrome. microbiota composition, and the delayed colonization About 10% of patients with NAFLD are now thought caused permanent changes in the immune systems to progress to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) of the mice. The mechanisms responsible for the with the potential to develop liver cirrhosis and even influence of commensal bacteria on host immunity are hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Since it is now thought to be nutrient- and metabolite-dependent. evident that the gut microbiota play an important role Collectively, these data indicate an interplay in energy storage and the subsequent development between gut microbiota and the host’s immune system. of obesity, the role of gut microbiota in the deve- lopment and progression of NAFLD has become a GUT MICROBIOTA AND HUMAN focus of research. Indeed, the compositions of microbiota have been DISEASES shown to differ in obese and lean individuals, with Several specific changes in the composition of gut increased Firmicutes and decreased Bacteroidetes levels microbiota in a number of human
