Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 February 14; 21(6): 1691-1702
KEYWORDS: liver, gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, patients, probiotics, diseases, lactobacillus, cirrhosis, bacteria, liver diseases, cells, nafld, nash, composition


DISEASES shown to differ in obese and lean individuals, with Several specific changes in the composition of gut increased Firmicutes and decreased Bacteroidetes levels microbiota in a number of human diseases have in the obese under the intake of the same amount been reported (Table 2). It would be reasonable to of food. Extensive analyses of gut microbiota in speculate that not a single disease-causing microbe patients with NAFLD have been performed recently, WJG|www.wjgnet.com 1693 February 14, 2015|Volume 21|Issue 6| Minemura M et al. Gut microbiota and liver diseases gut microbiota to the prognosis of patients with liver Table 3 Changes in gut microbiota in liver diseases cirrhosis. Qin et al analyzed the gut microbiomes in liver Diseases Change in microbiota Ref. cirrhosis patients by quantitative metagenomics, and NAFLD Bacteroidetes ↓ they found that the gut microbiota in the patients Prevotella ↑ Porphyromonas ↑ contained less Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes and more Cirrhosis Enterobacteriaceae ↑ Streptococcus spp. and Veillonella spp. compared Streptococcaceae ↑ to healthy controls. Both Streptococcus spp. and Bifidobacteria ↓ Veillonella spp. are bacteria of oral origin and might be Lachnospiraceae ↓ Bacteroidetes ↓ associated with the pathophysiology of liver cirrhosis. Firmicutes ↓ Although the functions and the contribution of these Streptococcus spp. ↑ bacteria in the pathogenesis and complications of liver Veillonella spp. ↑ cirrhosis remain to be clarified, these findings could Alcoholics Bacteroidaceae ↓ help develop a new therapeutic strategy against liver Prevotellaceae ↑ Alcoholic liver cirrhosis Enterobactericaea ↑ cirrhosis by focusing on the gut microbiota. Cirrhosis with Porphyromonadacae ↑ encephalopathy Alcaligenacae ↑ Alcoholic liver disease Chronic alcohol consumption is related to fatty liver, NAFLD: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. liver fibrosis and liver cirrhosis, and both alcohol and acetaldehyde have been suspected to be pathogenic and individuals with NAFLD were found to show a for liver injury. However, the importance of gut lower percentage of Bacteroidetes and higher levels of microbiota in the pathogenesis of alcoholic liver injury Prevotella and Porphyromonas species compared to has been revealed. In alcohol-fed mice, Akkermansia healthy controls. Moreover, the predisposition to develop and Bacteroides were increased, and Lactobacillus to NAFLD was dependent on the expression of Toll-like was decreased. In human alcoholics, a decrease receptors (TLR) 4 or 9, or tumor necrosis factor-alpha in Bacteroidaceae and an increase in Prevotellaceae (TNF-α) receptor. were found. Besides gut dysbiosis, increased gut The mechanisms underlying the progression from permeability-due to the disruption of tight
