Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 February 14; 21(6): 1691-1702
KEYWORDS: liver, gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, patients, probiotics, diseases, lactobacillus, cirrhosis, bacteria, liver diseases, cells, nafld, nash, composition


necrosis factor-alpha in Bacteroidaceae and an increase in Prevotellaceae (TNF-α) receptor. were found. Besides gut dysbiosis, increased gut The mechanisms underlying the progression from permeability-due to the disruption of tight junctions simple fatty liver to NASH are not fully understood, caused by ethanol and acetaldehyde-leads to the but a study suggested that NASH harbors modified increased entry of LPS, endotoxin and bacterial DNA microbiota that produce endogenous ethanol, leading into the liver. These activate Kupffer cells via to the development of NASH. TLR4 or TLR 9 on the cell surface, and induce pro- A bacteria-mediated mechanism for the progression inflammatory cytokines from Kupffer cells. of NASH was recently proposed by Imajo et al. They Tuomisto et al analyzed bacterial DNA in the found that obesity-induced leptin upregulates CD14 feces of patients with alcoholic liver cirrhosis, and via STAT3 signaling, resulting in hyper-responsibility to they found that the feces contained more bacterial low-dose LPSs, leading to the liver inflammation and DNA of Enterobactericaea compared to those of he- fibrosis of NASH. althy volunteers. They also analyzed ascites, and found that 50% of the ascites from the alcoholic liver Liver cirrhosis cirrhosis patients contained Enterobactericaea, a In liver cirrhosis, the decreased secretions of bile Clostridium leptum group or Lactobacillus spp.. acid and portal hypertension could affect the composition and the growth of gut microbiota. Previous Hepatic encephalopathy studies revealed that the gut microbiota in Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a complication often patients with liver cirrhosis showed a higher prevalence found in patients with advanced liver cirrhosis. It of pathogenic bacteria such as Enterobacteriaceae greatly affects the quality of life in those patients. HE and Streptococcaceae and a lower prevalence of be- is characterized by reversible cognitive impairment neficial bacteria such as Bifidobacteria and Lachno­ which is caused not by organic organ damage but spiraceae compared to healthy controls. The gut by toxic substances produced by microbiota in the microbial communities were the same irrespective intestine. Although ammonia is thought to be the main of their etiologies, indicating that the composition factor causing HE, other factors such as mercaptans, characteristics in the liver cirrhosis patients were due phenols, short- and medium-chain fatty acids and mostly to the liver cirrhosis. Interestingly, a positive benzodiazepine-like compounds could contribute to correlation was observed between the patients’ Child- the development of HE. Since most of these factors Turcotte-Pugh (CTP) scores and Streptococcaceae, are derived from gut microbiota,
