Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 February 14; 21(6): 1691-1702
KEYWORDS: liver, gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, patients, probiotics, diseases, lactobacillus, cirrhosis, bacteria, liver diseases, cells, nafld, nash, composition


compounds could contribute to correlation was observed between the patients’ Child- the development of HE. Since most of these factors Turcotte-Pugh (CTP) scores and Streptococcaceae, are derived from gut microbiota, analyses of the whereas Lachnospiraceae was significantly decreased composition of the microbes will be important for both in the cirrhosis patients and negatively correlated the understanding and management of HE. with the CTP scores, suggesting a contribution of A report from Bajaj et al found that fecal WJG|www.wjgnet.com 1694 February 14, 2015|Volume 21|Issue 6| Minemura M et al. Gut microbiota and liver diseases microbiota in cirrhotic patients contained significantly Intratumoral interleukin-17-producing T helper higher levels of Enterobacteriaceae, Alcaligeneceae, cells (Th17) were found to be associated with poor and Fusobacteriaceae and lower levels of Rumino­ prognoses of patients with HCC, possibly due to the coccaceae and Lachnospiraceae compared to those in promotion of angiogenesis and tumor growth, and controls. Moreover, in cirrhotic patients with HE, the most of these Th17 cells are generated in the gut by correlation between Porphyromonadacae and Alca­ an interaction with gut microbiota. Therefore, there ligenacae with poor performance on cognitive tests could be close associations among HCC progression, was observed. However, Bajaj et al later reported the generation of Th17 cells, and gut microbiota. Taken that sigmoid colon mucosal microbiomes are different together, the above-described findings indicate that the from stool microbiomes in patients with liver cirrhosis development of liver cancer can be modulated by gut and HE, and they found that in patients with HE the microbiota, suggesting the possibility of therapeutic mucosal microbiome, but not the stool microbiome, intervention. showed less Roseburia and more Enterococcus, Ve­ illonella, Megasphaera, and Burkholderia compared UTILIZATION OF PROBIOTICS IN LIVER to non-HE subjects. These data suggest that a stool microbiota analysis might not be enough to DISEASES understand the pathogenesis of HE, and that changes Bacterial translocation and endotoxemia, which in the colonic mucosal microbiota could contribute to can be caused by increased permeability of the the development of HE. intestinal mucosa, are thought to contribute to the pathogenesis of various complications in liver cirrhosis HCC such as hepatic encephalopathy and spontaneous Eighty percent of HCCs develop in fibrotic or cirrhotic bacterial peritonitis. The changes of intestinal livers, and the main etiologies include hepatitis B, microflora might also be associated with the patho- hepatitis C, and alcohol intake. However, as obesity genesis of NASH. Beneficial effects of probiotics
