Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 February 14; 21(6): 1691-1702
KEYWORDS: liver, gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, patients, probiotics, diseases, lactobacillus, cirrhosis, bacteria, liver diseases, cells, nafld, nash, composition


and the main etiologies include hepatitis B, microflora might also be associated with the patho- hepatitis C, and alcohol intake. However, as obesity genesis of NASH. Beneficial effects of probiotics has become more prevalent in most developed cou- have been reported in not only gastrointestinal but ntries, the development of HCC in patients with also liver diseases. Here we describe therapeutic trials NAFLD has been increasing. In viral hepatitis, chronic using probiotics and their indications in liver diseases. inflammation of the liver is thought to be associated with hepatocarcinogenesis, but the mechanism un- HE derlying the development of HCC in NAFLD patients HE is a common complication of liver cirrhosis. has not been clarified. Gut flora are associated with the pathogenesis of Yoshimoto et al reported that obese mice show HE, because urease-producing gut bacteria such as alterations of gut microbiota, leading to an increased Klebsiella and Proteus species can increase the produc- production of a gut bacterial metabolite, deoxycholic tion of ammonia and endotoxins. It was reported in acid (DCA), which is known to cause DNA damage. several studies that the alteration of gut flora using Increased levels of DCA in the enterohepatic circulation probiotics and/or prebiotics could improve HE. The induce a senescence-associated secretory phenotype probiotics include strains of lactic acid bacilli (e.g., in the hepatic stellate cells, which secrete inflammatory Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium), a nonpathogenic and tumor-promoting factors in the liver. The obese strain of Escherichia coli (e.g., E. coli Nissle 1917), mice showed HCC development after exposure to a Clostridium butyricum, Streptococcus salivarius, and chemical carcinogen. These data indicate that gut Saccharomyces boulardii (a nonpathogenic strain bacterial metabolites promote obesity-induced HCC of yeast), and VSL#3. The most-studied probiotic, development in mice. Yoshimoto et al also found VSL#3, consists of a mixture of eight probiotic strains that a similar pathway may contribute to NASH- (Streptococcus thermophilus, Bifidobacterium breve, associated HCC development in humans. B. longum, B. infantis, Lactobacillus acidophilus, L. Dapito et al demonstrated in a mouse model plantarum, L. paracasei, and L. bulgaricus). that TLR4 activation by LPS from the intestinal As of 2011, nine randomized controlled trials microbiota was closely associated with injury- and (RCTs) had been reported comparing probiotics and inflammation-driven tumor promotion but not with synbiotics with no intervention or placebo in patients the tumor initiation of hepatocarcinogenesis induced with HE (Table 4)[69-77]. Some of these studies included by a combination of diethylnitrosamine
