Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 February 14; 21(6): 1691-1702
KEYWORDS: liver, gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, patients, probiotics, diseases, lactobacillus, cirrhosis, bacteria, liver diseases, cells, nafld, nash, composition


Bifidobacterium (subtype not available) and FOS vs 60 d NH3 ↓ lactulose Psychometric test: improved 1Pereg et al 2011 40 (20/20) Lactobacillus acidophilus, Lactobacillus bulgaricus, 6 mo NH3 ↓ Bifidobacterium bifidum, and Streptococcus thermophiles (Bio-plus, Supherb, Israel) vs placebo Agrawal et al 2012 235 (157/78) VSL#3 vs lactulose or none > 3 mo NH3 (arterial) ↓ Psychometric test: improved Secondary prophylaxis of HE Lunia et al 2014 160 (86/74) VSL#3 vs placebo > 6 mo NH3 (arterial) ↓ Prevention of HE 1RCTs included in meta-analysis by McGee et al; 2RCTs included in meta-analysis by Holte et al. to patients treated with placebo or no intervention, that probiotics could be effective in preventing overt but treatment with neither probiotics nor synbiotics HE. did not significantly alter the clinically relevant On the other hand, Lactobacillus GG AT strain outcomes (i.e., mortality and quality of life). The 53103 (LGG), which is a well-studied probiotic with trials had high risks of systematic and random errors, a published history of safety and efficacy in humans, because each sample size was small and the dosing was examined to evaluate its safety and tolerability in periods and quantities of the probiotics were different patients with minimal HE. The trial showed that LGG among the trials. was safe and well-tolerated in patients with cirrhosis After those meta-analyses, Agrawal et al reported and could cause reductions of the endotoxemia and a randomized trial examining the use of probiotics TNF-α production seen in these patients. for the secondary prophylaxis of HE. The study as- Among the various probiotics, the most efficacious signed 235 patients who had suffered from HE pre- species for HE appeared to be Lactobacilli and viously, and the results showed that recurrent HE Bifidobacteria. However, additional prospective and occurred in fewer patients who received probiotics randomized controlled trials are needed before these or lactulose compared with no treatment (34% and probiotics can be routinely recommended. 27%, respectively, vs 57%). There was no significant difference in recurrence rates between the patients Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis who received probiotics and those who received NAFLD is characterized by the accumulation of lactulose. Lunia et al reported preventive effects triglyceride in hepatocytes in non-alcohol users. NAFLD of probiotics on the development of HE in patients can progress to more severe liver diseases, such as with liver cirrhosis who had not experienced overt HE. NASH. It has been reported the NAFLD/NASH Patients who received
