Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 February 14; 21(6): 1691-1702
KEYWORDS: liver, gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, patients, probiotics, diseases, lactobacillus, cirrhosis, bacteria, liver diseases, cells, nafld, nash, composition


in patients can progress to more severe liver diseases, such as with liver cirrhosis who had not experienced overt HE. NASH. It has been reported the NAFLD/NASH Patients who received the probiotics were less likely was associated with increased intestinal permeability to develop overt HE compared to controls (1.2% vs and small bowel bacterial overgrowth, which could 19%; HR = 2.1). These prospective trials indicate increase the production of proinflammatory cytokines WJG|www.wjgnet.com 1696 February 14, 2015|Volume 21|Issue 6| Minemura M et al. Gut microbiota and liver diseases Table 5 Randomized controlled trials for non-alcoholic steatohepatitis Ref. Year Sample size Treatment regimens Duration Favorable effects Other (treatment/placebo) information 1Aller et al 2011 28 (14/14) Lactobacillus bulgaricus and Streptococcus 3 mo ALT ↓ Cardiovascular thermophiles vs placebo risk factors: NS 1Vajro et al 2011 20 (10/10) Lactobacillus rhamnosus strain GG vs 8 wk ALT ↓ Hepatorenal US placebo PG-PS IgA ↓ ratio: NS 1Malaguarnera et al 2012 66 (34/32) Bifidobacterium longum with fructo- 24 wk ALT ↓ CRP ↓ TNF-α ↓ oligosaccharides vs placebo LDL-cholesterol ↓ Serum endotoxin ↓ HOMA-IR↓ Steatosis ↓ NASH activity index ↓ 1Wong et al 2013 20 (10/10) Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus 6 mo AST ↓ deslbrueckii, Lactobacillus acidophilus, Liver fat (IHTG) ↓ Lactobacillus rhamnosus and Bifidobacterium bifidum (The Lepicol probiotic formula) vs usual care 1RCTs included in meta-analysis by Ma et al. PG-PS: Peptidoglycan-polysaccharide; IHTG: Intrahepatic triglyceride content; NASH: Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis; NS: Not significant. and contribute to the pathogenesis of NASH. Lactobacillus, bifidobacterium, and streptococcus Several pharmacologic treatments for NAFLD/NASH are used as probiotics for patients with NASH, and have been reported, including insulin-sensitizers (e.g., prebiotics such as fructo-oligosaccharides (FOS) are pioglitazone), antioxidants (e.g., N-acetylcysteine, frequently used with these probiotics because they vitamin E), ursodeoxycholic acid, and anti-TNF-α ag- can be fermented by bifidobacteria and lactobacilli. ents, but a standard treatment has not been esta- FOS could contribute to bifidobacteria growth as the blished. dominant species in the large bowel and reduce the In animal models of NASH, treatments with pro- growth of harmful bacteria. biotics such as VSL#3 improved the histological fin- Although the above-described studies have several dings including reduced fat deposits and damage to limitations including small sample sizes and a lack the liver parenchyma, with decreasing serum alanine of data about the patients’ diets and exercise, the aminotransferase (ALT) levels. VSL#3 also treatments with probiotics and prebiotics for patients reduced oxidative and inflammatory liver
