Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 February 14; 21(6): 1691-1702
KEYWORDS: liver, gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, patients, probiotics, diseases, lactobacillus, cirrhosis, bacteria, liver diseases, cells, nafld, nash, composition


with decreasing serum alanine of data about the patients’ diets and exercise, the aminotransferase (ALT) levels. VSL#3 also treatments with probiotics and prebiotics for patients reduced oxidative and inflammatory liver damage in with NAFLD are promising. mouse NASH models. Several clinical trials of probiotics administered to Alcoholic liver disease patients with NAFLD have been reported. Loguercio The chronic consumption of alcohol induces various et al found that the administration of VSL#3 biological abnormalities including liver injury (ranging might reduce liver injury and improve liver function from fatty liver, liver fibrosis, and alcoholic hepatitis in NAFLD patients. Four relatively high-quality RCTs to liver cirrhosis), pancreatitis, impaired neutrophil that evaluated the effects of probiotics in NAFLD functions, endotoxemia, and increased oxidative patients were reported (Table 5)[90-93]. All four trials stress in the gut. Most of these abnormalities could showed that probiotic therapy significantly decreased be associated with altered gut microbiota, raising the the serum levels of ALT, but only two of the trials possibility that probiotics would be effective for the revealed an improvement of liver steatosis, which improvement of these conditions. was evaluated by repeated liver biopsies or proton- In an open-label study with Lactobacillus casei magnetic resonance. Ma et al performed a meta- Shirota, patients with alcoholic cirrhosis who analysis of these four RCTs to assess the efficacy received the probiotic for 4 wk showed a restoration of probiotic therapies, and they found that the pro- of neutrophil phagocytic capacity, possibly due to the biotic therapy significantly decreased the levels of decreased expression of TLR4 on the surface of these aminotransferases, total-cholesterol, high-density cells. In a mouse model fed an ethanol-containing diet, lipoprotein (HDL) and TNF-α in the serum, and the heat-killed Lactobacillus brevis (L. brevis) SBC8803 homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance. significantly decreased the serum levels of ALT and The lower levels of HDL in the probiotic-treated groups AST and the hepatic content of triglyceride and total compared to the placebo groups was unexpected, cholesterol in the liver caused by ethanol, which may and the mechanism is unclear. In two of the RCTs, be associated with the up-regulation of TNF-α and probiotics were used with prebiotics in NAFLD sterol regulatory element-binding proteins in the patients, and the combination significantly reduced liver. the patients’ serum aminotransferase levels and liver In a pilot study reported by Kirpich et al, steatosis. alcoholic patients who received bifidobacteria and WJG|www.wjgnet.com 1697 February 14,
