Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 February 14; 21(6): 1691-1702
KEYWORDS: liver, gut, microbiota, gut microbiota, patients, probiotics, diseases, lactobacillus, cirrhosis, bacteria, liver diseases, cells, nafld, nash, composition


significantly reduced liver. the patients’ serum aminotransferase levels and liver In a pilot study reported by Kirpich et al, steatosis. alcoholic patients who received bifidobacteria and WJG|www.wjgnet.com 1697 February 14, 2015|Volume 21|Issue 6| Minemura M et al. Gut microbiota and liver diseases lactobacilli for 5 d showed increased numbers of those Surgical procedures bacteria in the gut, and they showed significantly Probiotic and symbiotic therapies have been attempted lower AST and ALT activity in the serum, indicating to maintain liver function or prevent post-surgical that a short-term administration of probiotics can infections in patients undergoing liver resection or liver change the gut microbiota, leading to the amelioration transplantation. of liver injury induced by chronic alcohol consumption. Rayes reported a randomized double-blind study The therapeutic effect of probiotics could be due to with a composition of four lactic acid bacteria (Pedia­ a reduction in oxidative stress and inflammation coccus pentosaceus 5-33:3, Leuconostoc mesen­ in the intestine and liver and the preservation of teroides 77:1, Lactobacillus paracasei ssp. paracasei gut barrier function. L. plantarum was recently F19, and L. plantarum 2362) and four fibers. microencapsulated and administered to rats chronically The treated group received probiotics for 15 d, and fed alcohol. The rats showed reductions in the the control group received fibers only. The treated levels of endotoxemia, serum aminotransferase, NF- group showed less post-operative infections (3% κB, cytokines such as TNF-α, and IL12/p40, and they in the treated group vs 48% in the control group) also showed improvements in the histology of the and needed shorter antibiotic therapy compared to intestine and liver. Considering the greater survival the control group. Similar results were obtained in of probiotics under gastric acidic conditions, this a study conducted in Japan in which probiotics approach might be efficacious. However, the bacteria- treatment reduced the perioperative infections in liver free culture supernatant of Lactobacillus rhamnosus transplantation recipients from 24% to 4%. In another GG was proven to suppress the alcohol-induced study, treatment with probiotics 3 d preoperatively intestinal permeability, endotoxemia and subsequent and 7 d postoperatively was found to be efficacious liver injury. It thus remains uncertain whether the for the better and faster recovery of liver functions. survival of probiotics is necessary for obtaining the These data suggest that perioperative probiotics or optimal effect of treatment with probiotics. synbiotics may have significant benefits by reducing infections and by maintaining liver functions in patients HCC undergoing
