Zhuetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2018) 18:379
KEYWORDS: marneffei, ngs, fig, patient, reported, infection, sequences, multiple, diagnosis, case, lower, disseminated, lesions, blood, pcr


Case presentation dian ink staining and acid-fast staining of CSF were all A 22-year-old man presented with a 70-day history of negative. The local hospital suspected disseminated tu- bilateral lower extremities weakness, followed by fever, berculosis infection and empirical anti-tuberculosis productive cough and jaundice. On March 20th 2017, treatment with isoniazid, rifampin, ethambutol and pyra- the patient suddenly developed lower limb weakness zinamide wasprescribed. without any other notable symptoms. After the patient’s After the treatment, no remission of the previous raphy (CT) scan found no abnormalities while the con- discomforts including fever (T 39 °C), productive max trast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) detected cough and jaundice in the early April. Repeated blood, multiple lesions in the brain and abnormal signals in sputum and CSFcultures all came back negative. During spinal cord on T2 (Fig. 1a,b). Chest CT scan revealed the next two months, the patient continuously to have multiple nodules in both lungs and a large lesion in intermittent low grade fever, weakness of lower extrem- lower left lung combined with cavity formation and ities and jaundice and by the end of May, rashes started gas-fluid levels inside (Fig. 1c). Abdomen CT scan to appear over his face and back. The local medical showed hepatosplenomegaly and multiple retroperiton- facility then transferred the patient to our hospital on eal lymph node enlargement. Laboratory tests reported a June7th,2017. leucocyte count of 12.7×103 cells/μL, a alanine amino- A careful history was taken and the patient reported transferase activity (ALT) of 116 U/L, a total bilirubin no significant past medical history and denied any his- concentration (TBil) of 37 μmol/L (direct bilirubin toryofaddiction,drugabuse,andexposuretotoxicmat- and moderate anemia. HIVserology test, HBV/HCVser- papules on the patient’s face and backside, which were ology test, serum T-SPOT.TB test, blood culture and 0.5 cm to 2 cm in diameter with crusted center (Fig. 2). Fig.1Imagine examination of the brain, spine, vertebra and lung: (a, b) Contrasted MRI were conducted on May 24th, 2017, and an axial T2-weighted image of the head found multiple lesions in the brain and abnormal signals were observed in spinal cord and vertebra in both sagittal and axial imaging. c Chest CT scan was conducted on May 28th and found multiple nodules in both lungs and a large lesion in lower left lung combined with cavity formation and gas-fluid levels inside. d PET/CT scan was conducted on June 10th and revealed abnormal uptake in the lesions
