Zhuetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2018) 18:379
KEYWORDS: marneffei, ngs, fig, patient, reported, infection, sequences, multiple, diagnosis, case, lower, disseminated, lesions, blood, pcr


a large lesion in lower left lung combined with cavity formation and gas-fluid levels inside. d PET/CT scan was conducted on June 10th and revealed abnormal uptake in the lesions of lung (SUV =5.4), mediastinal lymph nodes (SUV =4.4), liver (SUV =3.8), left adrenal max max max gland (SUV =2.0), prostate (SUV =6.6) and bones (SUV =9.4). No abnormal uptake was found in brain max max max Zhuetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2018) 18:379 Page3of7 Fig.2Skinbiopsy,cultureresultandskinlesion:aHematoxylin-eosinstainingrevealedspore-likestructureindermis.bKOHbasedsmear revealedlargeamountofhyphainskinlesion.cFluorescentstainingconfirmedthepresentoffungiinskinlesion.d.Skintissueculturerevealed thatcoloniesat25°Cproduceadiffusibleawind-redpigment.e-f.Physicalexaminationdiscoveredmultiplepapulesinthesizebetween soybeanandcoinpresentedonthepatient’sfaceandbacksidewithumbilicationandincrustationinthecenterofthelesion.g-h.Thepapules onthepatient’sfaceandbacksideresolvedafter3weeksoftreatment His skin and conjunctiva were yellow and both legs’ control(inwhichnoT.marneffeinucleotidesequencewas creased muscle tone and positive Babinski signs in both cians reached the diagnosis of T.marneffei infection and lower extremities. Laboratory testing revealed a intravenous anti-fungi therapy consisting of 25 mg C-reactive protein concentration of 29 mg/L, a ferritin amphotericinBdeoxycholateand250mgitraconazoleper concentration over 2000 ng/ml, an ALT of 36 U/L, an day was initiated. On July 14th, culture of the skin lesion aspartate transaminase activity (AST) of 119 U/L, and a tissue reported T.marneffei (Fig. 2) and 7 days later, re- Tbil of 302.6. HIV RNA test were negative, and the peated blood and bone marrow culturefor bacteria, fungi lymphocyte subsets were within normal range. Blood gas and tuberculosis all came back negative. On July 19th, analysis suggested a type II respiratory failure and other NGS reported detecting 25,906 of 28,648,375 T.marneffei laboratory results were all insignificant. Contrast MRI nucleotide sequences (0.09%) in the BALF sample and scans revealed multiple lesions in the brain with ring en- 17,877 of 28,648,375 T.marneffei nucleotide sequences hancement, and abnormal enhanced lesions in spinal (0.062%)intheCSFsample.TheculturesofbothCSFand cord, pia mater spinals and vertebrae similar to previous BALF for fungi and bacteria came back negative (Both imaging results. Contrasted CT scan further discovered Myco/F lytic system from BD company and Sabouraud’s suspicious lesions in liver, spleen, left adrenal gland, agarmediumwereusedinfungalculture). prostate, intra-abdominal lymph nodes and positron We then conducted sequencing of the isolated emission tomography/computed tomography scan found strain from the skin lesion culture, and a 97% cover- abnormal uptakes in these regions as well. After obtain- age of T.marneffei was identified (Fig. 3b). Close rela- ing written consents from the patient, bone marrow bi- tionship between our strain and other T.marneffei opsy and skin biopsy of the facial lesions were strains was revealed in phylogenetic analysis (Fig. 3c). conductedon June8thfollowedbylumbarpuncture and Confirmatory nested PCR was done in patient’s fibro bronchoscope in later days. All samples were sent blood, CSF, BALF and bone
