Zhuetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2018) 18:379
KEYWORDS: marneffei, ngs, fig, patient, reported, infection, sequences, multiple, diagnosis, case, lower, disseminated, lesions, blood, pcr


revealed in phylogenetic analysis (Fig. 3c). conductedon June8thfollowedbylumbarpuncture and Confirmatory nested PCR was done in patient’s fibro bronchoscope in later days. All samples were sent blood, CSF, BALF and bone marrow samples and all for culture and NGS (See Additional file 1 for NGS PCR results were positive. method) and during the following days, only supportive In consideration of all the facts, the physicians diag- treatmentsweregiven. nosed the patient with disseminated T.marneffei infec- On July 11th, NGS reported detecting 18,987 of tion, which invaded lung, bone marrow, central nervous 28,648,375T.marneffei nucleotidesequences(Cover rate: system and skin. The anti-fungi therapy consisting of 0.066%)inbonemarrowand144,780of28,648,375T.mar- amphotericin B deoxycholate and itraconazole was con- neffei nucleotide sequences (Cover rate: 0.51%) in DNA tinuously prescribed and the patient’s fever resolved extracted from the skin lesions (Fig. 3a). Considering the three days after the initiation of the treatment, while Zhuetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2018) 18:379 Page4of7 Fig.3(Seelegendonnextpage.) Zhuetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2018) 18:379 Page5of7 (Seefigureonpreviouspage.) Fig.3SequencingresultsandPhylogeneticanalysis:aTheproportionsoftheidentifiedsequencingreadsamongdifferentclinicalsamples.The besthitisbasedonthehighestalignmentscorebetweenthequerysequenceandthedatabasesequencesegment.TheT.marneffeiownedthe mostbesthitsandwasthemostfrequentdetectedspecies.bSequencingoftheisolatedstrainwasconductedandatotalcoverageof97%was obtained.cPhylogeneticanalysisdisclosedacloseconnectionbetweentheisolatedstrainand4otherT.marneffeistrains lesions and lower limb weakness resolved within a due to the limited culture positive rate . Trad- month of the therapy (Fig. 4). Until this article was sub- itional PCR (including RT-PCR and nested PCR) or mitted,thetotal amount ofamphotericinBdeoxycholate advanced multiplexed PCR assays provides advan- reached 1170 mg, and the patient was discharged from tages of high sensitivity, low cost and fast detection, to raise a few suspicious pathogens prior to examin- Discussion and conclusions ation and the latter method is usually restricted to This is the first case report describing the diagnosis of only limited range of pathogens. Therefore, these disseminated T.marneffei infection in a HIV-negative methods are currently best applicable in certain detected unique sequence reads corresponding to fections . Under such circumstances, the imple- T.marneffei from multiple body fluids and tissues mentation of NGS in clinical field enabled a fast and including bone marrow, CSF, BALF, and skin tissue. In comparably accurate diagnostic tool for physicians, this particular case, NGS identified T.marneffei as the and most importantly, it does not require a prede- causative agent without any prior assumptions from fined range of suspicious pathogens. The principles the physicians, leading to a prompt treatment and of NGS in infectious diseases are composed of three quick relieve of the disease. The sequencing data, main procedures, the identification of the DNA nu- features and skin tissue culture result, finally assisted these nucleotides against the catalogue of causative seminated T.marneffei infection. acquired sequences points to
