Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


ABSTRACT Pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas (PPGLs) are rare neuroendocrine tumors arising from chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla or neural crest progenitors located outside of the adrenal gland, respectively. These tumors are derived from either sympathetic tissue in the adrenal or extra-adrenal abdominal locations (sympathetic PPGLs) or parasympathetic tissue in the thorax, head, and neck (parasympathetic PPGLs). The clinical presentation is so variable that a PPGL has been described as “the great masquerader”( 1 ). The extensive signs and symptoms of PPGLs arise from the hemodynamic and metabolic effects of the catecholamines that these tumors produce, store, and secrete. Therefore, a thorough understanding of these tumors’ physiology, genetics, and pathophysiology is vital for providing optimal care, as discussed in detail in this chapter. Recent advances have greatly enhanced our understanding of PPGLs, providing a new viewpoint on their metastatic features, a classification of these tumors according to their genetic profiles, and, most recently, an analysis of their immune characteristics. Additionally, there has been a better understanding of catecholamine metabolism, its clinical implications for particular tumor phenotypes, and the development of specific imaging features. The newer targeted therapies for metastatic PPGLs are based on our improved understanding of tumor biology and the design of new PPGL-specific compounds with fewer side effects. There has been extensive research in the field of PPGLs in the last decade that has shed new light on genetics and multiple possible metabolic and other pathways that participate in the pathogenesis of these tumors. This article details the current literature on diagnosing and managing PPGLs, focusing on recent advancements in the field. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas (PPGLs) are highly vascular neuroendocrine tumors that produce catecholamines and metabolites ( 2 )( 3 ). They originate from chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla or their neural crest and likely other progenitors outside the adrenal gland, respectively ( 4 ). PPGLs are estimated to occur in about 2–8 of 1 million people per year, and approximately 0.1% of hypertensive patients harbor a PPGL—about 10% of patients with PPGL present with adrenal incidentaloma ( 5 , 6 ). According to the 2022 WHO classification of tumors (fifth edition), based on their location/origin, these neuroendocrine neoplasms are classified as tumors of the adrenal medulla and extra-adrenal paraganglia ( 2 ). Catecholamines are primarily metabolized in the cytoplasm
