Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


(fifth edition), based on their location/origin, these neuroendocrine neoplasms are classified as tumors of the adrenal medulla and extra-adrenal paraganglia ( 2 ). Catecholamines are primarily metabolized in the cytoplasm of tumor cells, but only about 70% of PPGLs release them into circulation ( 7 , 8 ). In the remaining 30% of tumors, catecholamines are efficiently metabolized in the cytoplasm to either metanephrines or 3-methoxytyramine, and only these metabolites are released ( 7 , 8 ). As discussed further in this chapter, these tumors reuptake released catecholamines using the cell membrane norepinephrine transporter into the tumor cell, allowing the re-storage or metabolism of catecholamines, which are essential mechanisms to be considered for drug interactions. Pheochromocytomas represent about 80% of the tumors and originate from medullary chromaffin tissue, now also referred to as intra-adrenal paragangliomas ( 4 , 9 ). The remaining 20% of tumors come from extra-adrenal paraganglia, referred to as paragangliomas ( 1 ). Paragangliomas are classified based on their origin: those that arise from parasympathetic ganglia of the skull base and neck region, as well as the anterior mediastinum (e.g., along the vagal nerve, glomus, carotid, jugular, and tympanic areas), and those that originate from the sympathetic ganglia in the abdomen, less commonly from the pelvis and rarely from posterior mediastinum or any other body location ( 9 ). According to the WHO, all pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas have metastatic potential, as they can metastasize many years after successfully eradicating a primary tumor without evidence of residual disease or recurrence on early (3-6 months) postoperative imaging ( 2 ). Currently, metastatic PPGLs are defined by the presence of the disease only in the bones and lymph nodes ( 2 ). Most PPGLs represent sporadic tumors, and about 40% of PPGLs are of familial origin, with about 25 known susceptibility genes, making them the most hereditary among all human tumors ( 10 , 11 ). PPGLs can be classified into three broad clusters based on currently known PPGL mutations and their pathogenetic pathways. Cluster 1 includes genes belonging to the Krebs cycle and the hypoxia signaling pathway. Cluster 2 mutations entail abnormal activation of kinase signaling pathways like PI3Kinase/AKT, RAS/RAF/ERK, and mTOR pathways ( 12 ). Cluster 3 includes activating mutations of the Wnt-signaling pathway (Wnt receptor signaling and Hedgehog signaling) ( 1 , 13 , 14 ). This activation of Wnt and Hedgehog signaling is secondary to somatic
