Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


activating mutations of the Wnt-signaling pathway (Wnt receptor signaling and Hedgehog signaling) ( 1 , 13 , 14 ). This activation of Wnt and Hedgehog signaling is secondary to somatic mutations of the CSDE1 (cold shock domain containing E1) and MAML3 (Mastermind-like transcriptional coactivator 3) genes ( 14 ). On the other hand, according to the catecholamine secretory patterns, PPGLs can be characterized into three different phenotypical categories – noradrenergic phenotype (predominant norepinephrine secreting), adrenergic phenotype (predominant epinephrine producing), and dopamine secreting ( 1 ). These distinct biochemical phenotypes of PPGL lead to a constellation of symptoms and signs based on the predominant hormone secreted, resulting in different clinical manifestations ( 3 ). CLINICAL FEATURES The clinical presentation is so variable that a PPGL has been termed “the great masquerader.” The varied signs and symptoms of PPGLs mainly reflect the hemodynamic and metabolic actions of the catecholamines produced and subsequently secreted by the tumors ( 10 , 15 )( 3 ). However, the presence of signs and symptoms of catecholamine excess remains the principal reason for initial suspicion of PPGLs; not all PPGLs exhibit these manifestations. The main reason is that an increasing proportion of these tumors are now being discovered incidentally during imaging procedures for unrelated conditions or during routine periodic screening in patients with identified mutations that predispose to the tumor ( 16 , 17 ). In such patients, the clinical presentation, if any present, may differ considerably (based on the biochemical phenotype) compared to patients in whom the tumor is suspected based on signs and symptoms. PPGLs can synthesize, metabolize, reuptake, and release catecholamines, including norepinephrine, epinephrine, and/or dopamine. While the former two exert organ-specific effects after binding to adrenoreceptors, dopamine is hemodynamically inert unless secreted at very high levels, which results in hypotension ( 1 ). Catecholamines bind to active α- and β-adrenoceptors throughout the body, profoundly impacting the cardiovascular system and leading to specific clinical features. Hypertension is the most common indicator and can be chronic or episodic, with the episodic form being the more usual presentation occurring alongside normal blood pressure or ongoing hypertension. The effects of catecholamines on α1-adrenoceptors in the vessels and pre-capillary sphincters result in vasoconstriction and a subsequent increase in blood pressure ( 1 , 18 ). The action of catecholamines on the β1-adrenoceptors in the cardiac conduction system leads to overactivation of the sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes, causing tachycardia;
