Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


blood pressure ( 1 , 18 ). The action of catecholamines on the β1-adrenoceptors in the cardiac conduction system leads to overactivation of the sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes, causing tachycardia; the β-adrenoceptor action also increases cardiac output, resulting in further elevation of blood pressure ( 1 , 18 ). PPGL may also present with hypotension, postural hypotension, or alternating episodes of high and low blood pressure due to the epinephrine stimulation of β2-adrenoceptors on the peripheral arteries and the resulting vasodilation ( 1 , 18 , 19 ). Norepinephrine, with its higher affinity towards α1- followed by β1-adrenoceptor, is continuously released (rather than episodic release) and mediates vasoconstriction, leading to sustained hypertension ( 20 ). Thus, patients with the noradrenergic phenotype can have hypertensive encephalopathy that sometimes leads to ischemic attack/stroke, intestinal ischemia leading to intestinal necrosis, followed by sepsis, renal failure, muscle necrosis, and myoglobinuria ( 1 , 18 , 21 – 23 ). Less frequent clinical manifestations include fever of unknown origin (hypermetabolic state) and constipation ( 21 ). Catecholamine-induced hypertension (CIH) is a unique cause of secondary hypertension due to norepinephrine and epinephrine excess ( 20 ). On the contrary, patients with the adrenergic phenotype may sometimes present with hypotension resulting in tachycardia and even cardiogenic shock due to the vasodilatory effects of epinephrine, mediated by prominent β2-adrenoceptor overstimulation ( 10 , 16 , 20 , 22 , 23 ). Furthermore, patients with the adrenergic phenotype have commonly the episodic release of epinephrine from the tumor. Thus, these patients more often present with paroxysmal tachycardia and hypertension, or much less frequently hypotension. Headache occurs in up to 90% of patients with PPGL. In some patients, catecholamine-induced headache may be similar to tension headache. Excessive, most commonly truncal, sweating occurs in approximately 60-70% of patients; however, since many tumors are now found as incidentalomas, sweating is much less common. Another sign of excess catecholamine is also pallor, observed in approximately 27% of patients, while only a few patients may have flushing ( 24 ). The presence of the 3 Ps triad, including headache (pain), palpitations, and generalized inappropriate sweating (perspiration) in patients with hypertension, should lead to immediate suspicion for a PPGL. In the recent study by Geroula et al. ( 25 ), presentations like hyperhidrosis, tremor, and pallor were 66% to 102% more prevalent in patients with PPGLs compared to those without any tumor, showing a consistent
