Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


et al. ( 25 ), presentations like hyperhidrosis, tremor, and pallor were 66% to 102% more prevalent in patients with PPGLs compared to those without any tumor, showing a consistent significance. Furthermore, palpitations were 28% more common, while muscle weakness and constipation were 23% to 60% more prevalent among those with these tumors. However, no significant differences were noted for headaches, flushing, or panic/anxiety between the two groups ( 25 ). Other common (but non-specific) complaints are severe anxiety, tremulousness, vomiting, weakness, fatigue, dyspnea, weight loss despite normal appetite (caused by catecholamine-induced glycogenolysis and lipolysis), visual problems during an attack, and profound tiredness and polyuria, most experienced after an attack ( 1 ). Most patients also present with severe episodes of anxiety, nervousness, or panic attacks. Attacks (spells) of signs and symptoms may occur weekly, several times daily, or as infrequently as once every few months. Most last less than an hour (sometimes even a few minutes), but very rarely more than several days. Attacks may be precipitated by palpitation of the tumor, changes in posture, physical exertion, anxiety, trauma, pain, consumption of foods or beverages containing tyramine (certain cheeses, beers, and wines), use of specific drugs (histamine, glucagon, tyramine, phenothiazine, metoclopramide, adrenocorticotropic hormone), intubation, induction of anesthesia, chemotherapy, endoscopy, catheterization, and micturition or bladder distention (with a bladder PGL) ( 1 ). Patients with the dopaminergic phenotype may have some very non-specific manifestations as described above in this section, e.g., nausea and vomiting (possibly due to some stimulation of the D2 receptor in the brain), diarrhea (stimulation of D1 receptors in the intestinal tract) and hypotension (due to vasodilatory effects of dopamine) ( 26 ). Except for the clinical signs and symptoms described so far, patients with PPGL can, in up to 54% of cases, have tumor-related pain due to large primary tumors or due to metastatic lesions, most often bone metastases ( 27 ). Highly variable symptomatology in patients with PPGL can reflect variations in the nature and types of catecholamines secreted, as well as co-secretion of neuropeptides: vasoactive intestinal peptide, corticotropin, neuropeptide Y, atrial natriuretic factor, growth hormone-releasing factor, somatostatin, parathyroid hormone-related peptide, calcitonin, and adrenomedullin. The classic example is PPGL with ectopic secretion of corticotropin or corticotropin-releasing factor, resulting in the presentation of Cushing syndrome ( 28 , 29 ). PPGLs have also been described as secreting excessive amounts of vasoactive intestinal peptide, resulting in the
