Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


corticotropin-releasing factor, resulting in the presentation of Cushing syndrome ( 28 , 29 ). PPGLs have also been described as secreting excessive amounts of vasoactive intestinal peptide, resulting in the presentation of watery diarrhea and hypokalemia ( 30 ). As described above, neglecting the secretory status of these tumors predisposes patients to serious and life-threatening cardiovascular complications due to excess catecholamines, including severe hypertension, acute myocardial infarction, cardiac arrhythmias, pulmonary edema, heart failure due to aseptic cardiomyopathy, and shock ( 31 ). GENETICS PPGLs are neuroendocrine tumors with a heritable rate of approximately 40%, and a significant number arise from somatic mutations in over 25 susceptible genes ( 13 , 14 , 24 – 26 ). Given the high prevalence of somatic mutations in these tumors, somatic mutation analysis is always advised when tumor samples are accessible. While genetic panels specifically for pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas are still commonly utilized and provide a convenient means for practical genetic evaluation in clinical settings (12 of the most prevalent susceptibility genes are found in many patients), the reduction in costs, broad availability, and comprehensive coverage of all known susceptibility genes offered by next-generation sequencing technology is becoming much more desirable ( 1 ). Dependence only on germline mutation testing will miss 40% of somatic mutations that could be found in the tumors. Identifying these somatic mutations is crucial for future treatments, especially in cases of locally advanced disease or metastatic progression. The classification of the susceptibility genes is into three primary clusters as described earlier: Cluster 1 includes genes associated with the Krebs cycle and the hypoxia signaling pathway, with the most significant genes being the succinate dehydrogenase gene family (subunits A-D), fumarate dehydrogenase, EPAS1 (or HIF2A : hypoxia-inducible factor 2α), and von Hippel-Lindau ( VHL) ; cluster 2 involves genes tied to the kinase signaling pathway, primarily RET , NF1 , TMEM127 , and MAX, and cluster 3 consists of the CSDE1 and UBTF-MAML3 genes. Tumors in cluster 1 typically manifest as extra-adrenal PGLs (except VHL) and usually display the noradrenergic biochemical profile, while to a lesser extent, particularly those linked to SDH mutations, may also exhibit the dopaminergic biochemical profile ( 10 ). Tumors classified as Cluster 1 are frequently very aggressive and metastatic and present with a high rate of multiplicity and recurrence ( 1 ). Among the SDH gene family, PPGLs associated with SDHA mutations show the highest metastatic
