Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


both clusters, including when to start screening and the screening method, is provided in figure 2 . A more recent update on the genetics of PPGL comes from Tothill et al., whose integrated single-nuclei RNA sequencing and bulk-tissue gene-expression analysis confirmed the presence of seven distinct gene-expression subtypes of PPGL, each with significant associations with specific genetic mutations and clinical characteristics ( 42 ). The most recent study from 2025 further advanced this understanding through multi-omic profiling of 94 SDHB tumors from 79 patients, identifying that TERT and ATRX mutations correlate with metastatic progression, along with an elevated mutational burden and altered telomere architecture ( 43 ). FIGURE 1. Genes and features of pheochromocytoma and paraganglioma-associated syndromes. Genetic and clinical features of genes described for PPGL syndromes, modified from Pacak 2022 ( 10 ). CCHD, cyanotic congenital heart disease; CNS, central nervous system; CSS, Carney-Stratakis syndrome; ELST, endolymphatic sac tumor; HB, hemangioblastoma; HLRCC, hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma; MTC, medullary thyroid carcinoma; NB, neuroblastoma; PA, pituitary adenoma; PC, pulmonary chondroma; PNET, pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor; ccRCC, clear cell renal cell carcinoma; GIST, gastrointestinal stromal tumor; PCC, pheochromocytoma; PGL, paraganglioma; NA, noradrenergic; DA, dopaminergic; A, adrenergic; *Associated with Carney-Stratakis syndrome or Carney triad. **Included in three P Association (3PA). Figure 2. Recommended screening for PPGL syndromes according to genetic classification. Adapted with permission from Kuo and Pacak 2025 ( 44 ). ATA-H, American Thyroid Association (ATA) high risk; ATA-HST, ATA highest risk; ATA-MOD, ATA moderate risk; BP, blood pressure; HC, head circumference; MRI-AP, MRI of abdomen and pelvis; MRI-HN, MRI of head and neck; MRI-TAP, MRI of thorax, abdomen, and pelvis; PTH, parathyroid hormone; SDHD -pi, paternally inherited SDHD pathogenic variant; MEN, multiple neuroendocrine neoplasia; CS, Carney syndrome; CSS, Carney-Stratakis syndrome; 3PA, 3 P association; NF1, neurofibromatosis type 1; TSC, tuberous sclerosis complex. BIOCHEMICAL TESTING Missing a PPGL can have a detrimental outcome. Therefore, biochemical evaluation should include highly sensitive tests to exclude a PPGL safely. Depending on their biochemical phenotype, PPGLs can secrete any combination of catecholamines, including all, none, or some of the following: epinephrine, norepinephrine, dopamine. These Catecholamines are produced and stored in intratumoral vesicles, leading to concentrations that typically exceed normal plasma levels by more than a thousand times ( 37 ). This is particularly critical in scenarios that may trigger a massive release of catecholamines into circulation, leading to life-threatening cardiovascular complications. Such situations include manipulation
