Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


thousand times ( 37 ). This is particularly critical in scenarios that may trigger a massive release of catecholamines into circulation, leading to life-threatening cardiovascular complications. Such situations include manipulation of the tumor during surgery, accidents, manual palpations, obstetric procedures, or cases of tumor instability due to ischemia, hemorrhage, or rupture ( 10 ). Additionally, the displacement of catecholamines is also possible due to certain foods or drugs like tyramine-rich food, amphetamines, or other stimulants ( 16 ). Moreover, catecholamines are efficiently metabolized within the tumor cell cytoplasm into their metabolites (primarily metanephrines). As a result, about 30% of these tumors may not present with elevated levels of catecholamines in their blood or urine ( 10 ). As the secretion of catecholamines from a PPGL is episodic, a single estimation of plasma or urinary epinephrine and norepinephrine most likely misses the biochemical diagnosis. In contrast, the metabolites of catecholamines (epinephrine is metabolized to metanephrine, and norepinephrine is metabolized to normetanephrine) are constantly released into circulation ( 38 ). This intra-tumoral process occurs independently of catecholamine release, which can occur intermittently or at low rates. In line with these concepts, numerous independent studies have confirmed that measurements of initially fractionated metanephrines (i.e., normetanephrine and metanephrine measured separately; currently free metanephrine and normetanephrine are measured either in plasma or urine) in urine or plasma provide superior diagnostic sensitivity over measurement of the parent catecholamines ( 39 ). Consequent to the above considerations, although current, outdated US Endocrine Society guidelines recommend plasma or urinary free metanephrines as initial screening tests ( 40 ). There is a notable difference in the secretion patterns: tumors with a noradrenergic phenotype release about 50% of their norepinephrine content on a daily basis, while epinephrine tumors release only 3-5% per day ( 1 ). As a result, PPGLs with the norepinephrine phenotype are more likely to present with sustained hypertension, with or without tachycardia. In contrast, PPGLs with the adrenergic phenotype more often present with episodic symptoms and signs (refer to the clinical presentation section). In resting conditions, about 70% of catecholamines released by the tumor are taken back by the cell membrane norepinephrine transporter system via the catecholamine reuptake process ( 1 ). This is of clinical significance because certain medications, like most tricyclic antidepressants and monoamine oxidase inhibitors, can block catecholamine reuptake, causing a false elevation in catecholamine and metanephrine levels ( 24 ). A detailed
