Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


significance because certain medications, like most tricyclic antidepressants and monoamine oxidase inhibitors, can block catecholamine reuptake, causing a false elevation in catecholamine and metanephrine levels ( 24 ). A detailed list of medications that can interfere with testing is listed in figure 3 . One should consider withholding these medications (only if the patient’s clinical condition permits) that can lead to false-positive test results. The kidneys typically eliminate 14-16% of plasma metanephrines, while nearly all catecholamines are also cleared by the kidneys ( 20 ). In individuals with renal failure, there are significantly elevated levels of plasma catecholamines in comparison to free metanephrines. Therefore, plasma catecholamine concentrations should not be utilized for patients with kidney failure needing evaluation for PPGLs; instead, free metanephrines should be assessed. Consequently, a modified cutoff for plasma free metanephrines in patients with renal failure should be established, approximately 25-30% higher than that for those without kidney issues ( 45 ). Additionally, an updated recommendation suggests that the analysis of plasma or urine metanephrines and 3-methoxytyramine should be performed using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), which avoids most analytical interferences from medications, is cost-efficient, and highly precise ( 46 – 48 ). It is important to note that measuring dopamine and 3-methoxytyramine in urine for assessing PPGL is no longer advisable ( 49 ). Recently, age-specific reference intervals have been established, particularly noting that infants up to six months of age show increased levels of free normetanephrine and 3-methoxytyramine, which then decline sharply; in infants younger than one year, these values are considerably lower compared to those later in childhood ( 50 ). A high diagnostic sensitivity for detecting these tumors is achieved if blood measurements are collected in the supine position, especially after an overnight fast and after a patient has been recumbent in a stress-free environment for at least 20 to 30 minutes before sampling ( 43 ). Urinary metanephrine, with measurement of urinary creatinine for collection verification, can be used as an alternative option, especially in centers where supine blood sampling is not feasible. Caffeine, smoking, and alcohol intake, as well as strenuous physical activity, should be withheld for approximately 24 hours before testing to avoid false-positive results. A 3-fold increase in normetanephrine, metanephrine, or 3-methoxytyramine levels above the upper limit of the age-adjusted reference is rarely a false-positive result, except when patients are on antidepressants and psychostimulants. Levels of catecholamine metabolites
