Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


normetanephrine, metanephrine, or 3-methoxytyramine levels above the upper limit of the age-adjusted reference is rarely a false-positive result, except when patients are on antidepressants and psychostimulants. Levels of catecholamine metabolites within the reference range typically exclude the tumors, while equivocal results (<2-3-fold above the upper limit) require additional tests if reference intervals are appropriately established and measurement methods are accurate and precise ( 44 , 45 ). False-negative metanephrine could be observed in tumors that are smaller than 1 cm, dopamine-secreting head and neck tumors (recommend measuring 3-Methoxytyramine), or nonfunctional tumors ( 7 ). Also, it is important to note that urine dopamine levels should never be used in the diagnostic workup, as most of the dopamine in mammalian urine is formed in renal cells, rendering this test unacceptable for evaluating PPGLs ( 42 ). Figure 3. Medications that interfere with the testing of plasma or urinary metanephrines. Adapted from Hannah-Schmouni et al ( 24 ) and Lenders et al ( 51 ). LC-ECD, liquid chromatography with electrochemical or fluorometric detection; HPCL, High Performance Liquid Chromatography. As the underlying genetic mutation leads to variable expression of catecholamine biosynthetic enzymes, there is a profound difference in the types and amount of catecholamines produced by these tumors ( 46 ). Moreover, regulatory and constitutive secretory pathways, which are also genotype dependent, contribute to variations in the catecholamine content displayed by tumors ( 46 ). Hence, a greater understanding of the genetic background will allow physicians to further advance diagnostic approaches (and thus treatment options). Approaching genetic testing using an individual patient’s clinical presentation is considered cost-effective, timely, and valuable for early and effective treatment of patients, especially with hereditary PPGLs. LOCALIZATION STUDIES Tumor localization should usually only be initiated once the clinical evidence and biochemical proof of a PPGL is established. In patients with a hereditary predisposition, a previous history of a PPGL, or other PPGL syndromic presentations where the pre-test probability of a PPGL is relatively high, less-compelling biochemical evidence might justify the use of imaging studies. Imaging also plays a key role in screening patients with genetic predispositions to PPGL development. For carrier screening and biochemical evaluations, a CT or MRI is often recommended every few years to detect tumors in early stages, if at all. Adding whole-body imaging is particularly important for SDH mutation carriers, as these tumors are sometimes missed by only biochemical evaluations ( 54 ). Either
