Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


adrenal gland and present with a small likelihood of metastases, even if a hereditary component is present ( 58 ). On the contrary, functional imaging is necessary for lesions that produce norepinephrine or secrete normetanephrine and are larger than 5 cm or associated with a hereditary tumor syndrome (as these characteristics determine the metastatic potential). Functional imaging also allows for the determination of the extent of disease, including the presence of multiple tumors or metastases, which is information that can be important for appropriately guiding subsequent management and treatment ( 59 ). Historically, functional imaging has been performed with 123 I- or 131 I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scintigraphy. Though 123 I-MIBG SPECT has high sensitivity for detection of adrenal pheochromocytoma, it has unacceptably low sensitivity for the detection of extra-adrenal PGLs (56% to 75%) and metastases, especially in the presence of SDHx mutations ( 60 ). Moreover, certain medications, such as opioids, tricyclic antidepressants, and perhaps anti-hypertensives like labetalol, can also affect MIBG uptake, leading to less intense or false-negative scans. Nonetheless, 123 I-MIBG is useful to identify patients with metastatic PPGL because MIBG avid lesions indicate that these patients may benefit from treatment with therapeutic doses of 131 I-MIBG. Given the low sensitivity of MIBG imaging, the US Endocrine Society Guidelines recommend using 18 F-FDG PET scan as a preferred functional imaging modality in patients with metastatic disease ( 40 ). However, many recent studies have shown that metastatic lesions were missed on 18 F-FDG PET scan ( 61 , 62 ). As PPGLs express somatostatin receptors (SSTRs), imaging modalities based on SSTR (DOTA peptides, particularly 68 GaDOTA(0)-Tyr( 3 )-octreotate ( 68 Ga-DOTATATE) are now viewed as gold standard for the detection of PPGLs. The first functional imaging specific to neuroendocrine tumors, including PPGLs, was 18 F-fluorodopa ( 18 F-FDOPA), an amino acid analog and catecholamine precursor that is taken up by the amino acid transporter. Initially, lower sensitivity was now improved by inhibiting DOPA decarboxylase by pretreatment with carbidopa, which enhances the tracer uptake by the tumor ( 63 ). From all PPGLs, 18 F-FDOPA PET is extremely sensitive for patients with head and neck PGLs, sometimes identifying small tumors missed by all other imaging techniques. This technique also appears to be particularly effective for patients with SDH mutations or biochemically silent PHEO/PGL or both and may be valuable as a screening technique, particularly for patients with SDHD mutations. 18
