Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


used to determine eligibility for peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT), offering targeted radiotherapy for inoperable or metastatic disease ( 55 ) ,( 56 ) . Figure 4 summarizes the current proposed PET radiopharmaceuticals for PPGL imaging according to genetic background ( 66 ). Figure 4. Current proposed PET radiopharmaceuticals for PPGL imaging based on genetic background. Adapted from Taïeb et al ( 66 ). METASTATIC POTENTIAL OF PPGL According to the WHO, all PPGLs have metastatic potential, as they can metastasize many years after successfully eradicating the primary tumor without evidence of residual disease or recurrence on postoperative imaging ( 1 ). The patterns of metastatic behavior vary between cluster 1 and cluster 2 tumors, particularly evident in the occurrence rates of 20–30% and 2–7% in patients, respectively. The most common sites for metastasis are the lymph nodes, followed by the bones, and then the liver and other organs. Patients with soft tissue lesions are typically classified as high-risk and have a shorter survival rate compared to those without such lesions ( 1 ). Additionally, it has been found that pheochromocytomas present a lower risk of metastasis compared to sympathetic PGLs (usually located outside the head and neck), with rates of approximately 5–20% versus 15–35%, respectively ( 10 ). Recent research has indicated a correlation between the development of metastases and SDHB mutations, high levels of norepinephrine and dopamine, increased levels of 3-methoxytyramine and normetanephrine, the size of the primary tumor, its multiplicity, and an extra-adrenal location ( 27 , 67 - 69 ). The risk factors include the age at which the primary diagnosis is made, the tumor location—where parasympathetic tumors are typically the least likely to metastasize—the presence of multiple or recurrent tumors, genetic factors, elevated oncometabolite levels (such as succinate and fumarate in mutations of the SDH and fumarate hydratase genes, respectively), high levels of 3-methoxytyramine, and established genetic abnormalities (like TERT structural rearrangements, copy number gains, and ATRX mutations), all of which serve as reliable predictors of tumor behavior over the course of the disease ( 10 ). Ultimately, the most effective imaging technique for identifying metastatic lesions is 68 Ga/ 64 Cu-DOTATATE, which should be conducted for both initial staging and re-staging following therapeutic procedures ( 38 , 57 – 61 ). MANAGEMENT OF PPGLs PPGLs are rare tumors that are represented in only a few specialized centers worldwide. In 2021, the North American Neuroendocrine
