Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


( 38 , 57 – 61 ). MANAGEMENT OF PPGLs PPGLs are rare tumors that are represented in only a few specialized centers worldwide. In 2021, the North American Neuroendocrine Tumor Society established a consensus guideline for surveillance and management of metastatic or unresectable PPGL ( 62 ). According to this guideline, there is now consensus on the therapies for metastatic PPGL or locally advanced PPGL. Treatment for unresectable tumors should focus on stabilizing tumor growth (which can include complete or partial responses, as well as stable disease) and/or controlling catecholamine production and secretion ( 62 ). Surgical management of metastatic PPGL is usually not recommended unless there is tumor mass effect or there is appropriate justification for removal of a tumor (e.g., primary tumor or usually a large metastatic lesion) such as a particularly large tumor which upon resection would lead to a significant decrease in circulating catecholamine concentrations, whose end-organ effects cannot be well controlled by various drugs. The definitive treatment of PPGL is surgical excision of the tumor. Laparoscopic surgery is commonly the technique of first choice for resection of adrenal and extra-adrenal PPGLs when oncologic principles can be followed ( 70 ). Exposure to high levels of circulating catecholamines during surgery may cause hypertensive crises and arrhythmias, which can occur even when patients are preoperatively normotensive and asymptomatic. All patients with PPGL should therefore receive appropriate preoperative medical management to block the effects of released catecholamines ( 40 ). Hence, it is of utmost importance that the preparation of the patient for surgery requires adequate preoperative medical treatment to minimize operative and postoperative complications. Exceptions to this rule include endocrine emergencies like necrotic PPGL leading to severe hypotension, other surgical emergencies ( 71 ) or the tumors that secrete high amounts of dopamine or epinephrine. Pre-Operative Medical Management (Blockade) As described above, once diagnosed with PPGL, patients should be placed on antihypertensive medications, preferentially α followed by β-adrenoceptor blockade ( 3 ). Figure 5 summarizes the list of available drugs and suggested doses. The first choice should be an α-adrenoceptor blocker. A β-adrenoceptor blocker may be used for preoperative control of arrhythmias, tachycardia, or angina. However, loss of β-adrenergic-mediated vasodilatation in a patient with unopposed catecholamine-induced vasoconstriction via α-adrenoceptors can result in dangerous increases in blood pressure, sometimes a hypertensive crisis. Therefore, β-adrenoceptor blockers usually should not be employed without first blocking α-adrenergic-mediated vasoconstriction. Labetalol (more
