Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


vasoconstriction via α-adrenoceptors can result in dangerous increases in blood pressure, sometimes a hypertensive crisis. Therefore, β-adrenoceptor blockers usually should not be employed without first blocking α-adrenergic-mediated vasoconstriction. Labetalol (more potent β than α-antagonist activities with α: β of 1:5-7) should not be used as the initial therapy because it can result in paradoxical hypertension due to its high affinity to β-adrenoceptors. Phenoxybenzamine, a long-acting α-adrenoceptor blocker, is commonly the preferred drug in patients who have elevated blood pressures. Short acting α 1 -adrenoceptor blockers like prazosin, terazosin, and doxazosin are used when phenoxybenzamine is not available or when a patient’s hypertension is not severe enough to warrant the use of a long-acting α-adrenoceptor blocker, or simply as good alternative to phenoxybenzamine that is not available in many countries ( 72 ). As there is a high chance that these medications can cause orthostatic hypotension, they should be started at night ( 72 ). The doses should be titrated to achieve normo-tension or mild tolerable hypotension. The patients should also be advised to maintain adequate water and salt intake to maintain adequate intravascular volume. Calcium channel blockers (CCBs) can be added if a goal blood pressure control is not achieved with adequate α- and β-adrenoceptor blockade. CCBs can also be used as initial agents of choice in patients who have normo-tension/mild hypertension, and/or who could not tolerate an α-blocker due to hypotension (usually seen in PPGLs that secrete dopamine predominantly). Patients with non-secreting head and neck tumors with normal blood pressure may not be placed on pre-procedural blockade ( 37 ). Figure 5. Medications used for symptom management and preoperative blockade for PPGLs. Adapted from Martucci et al ( 63 ). In patients who did not achieve adequate blood pressure control despite being on optimized doses of α and β-adrenoceptor blockade, metyrosine (a competitive inhibitor of tyrosine hydroxylase) can be added to prevent catecholamine synthesis. Metyrosine acts by decreasing catecholamine synthesis, and its main side effects include depression, anxiety, and sleepiness due to its effects on the central nervous system (as it can cross the blood-brain barrier) ( 37 ). In some patients, blood pressure can reach very high values, and such a situation is termed a hypertensive crisis when it is life-threatening or compromises vital organ function. The hypertensive crises are the result of a rapid and marked release of catecholamines from the tumor. Patients may experience hypertensive crises
