Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


it is life-threatening or compromises vital organ function. The hypertensive crises are the result of a rapid and marked release of catecholamines from the tumor. Patients may experience hypertensive crises in different ways. Some report severe headaches or diaphoresis, while others have visual disturbances, palpitations, encephalopathy, acute myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, or cerebrovascular accidents. Therefore, it is crucial to start proper antihypertensive therapy immediately. Management of a hypertensive crisis, short-acting intravenous (IV) agents are preferred over oral medications because splanchnic vasoconstriction can impair absorption, and oral agents may have prolonged effects that can be dangerous if subsequent hypotension develops ( 64 ). Continuous IV infusions are ideal. In contrast, IV bolus medications e.g. diuretics (unless heart failure is present) should be avoided due to the potential risk of intravascular volume depletion caused by chronic α 1 -adrenoceptor-mediated vasoconstriction ( 23 ). α-Adrenoceptor blockers would be cornerstone of treatment, although their availability is limited and therefore, impractical (for example, IV phentolamine or oral/IV phenoxybenzamine) ( 23 ). β-Blockers should never be used without adequate α-blockade because of the risk of unopposed α-stimulation, which could worsen hypertension ( 23 ). Calcium channel blockers like nicardipine, clevidipine, and nitroprusside can be utilized, but each has potential side effects, such as cyanide toxicity with nitroprusside ( 23 ). Verapamil is preferred among calcium channel blockers when concurrent tachyarrhythmias are present. Additionally, magnesium sulfate may be beneficial, especially in cases of arrhythmias or during pregnancy ( 23 ). Fenoldopam is rarely used but may offer renal-protective effects. Once blood pressure is controlled, a transition to oral α-blockers (such as doxazosin) should be initiated, followed by β-blockers (like metoprolol) if tachycardia persists ( 23 ). Certain medications are to be avoided in patients with PPGLs. The effects of some drugs are more obvious due to their mechanism of action, such as the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist metoclopramide ( 51 , 65 ). More recently, peptide and corticosteroid hormones, including corticotropin, glucagon, and glucocorticoids (intravenous), have been shown to have adverse reactions in this patient population unless patient are on appropriate adrenergic blockade ( 51 , 65 ). Other classes of drugs relatively contraindicated in patients with PPGL are tricyclic antidepressants, antidepressants that are serotonin or norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors like Cymbalta and Effexor, again, unless these patients are on appropriate adrenergic blockade ( 51 , 65 ). Furthermore, displacement of catecholamines from storage can have devastating
