Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors like Cymbalta and Effexor, again, unless these patients are on appropriate adrenergic blockade ( 51 , 65 ). Furthermore, displacement of catecholamines from storage can have devastating sequelae. Many drugs for obesity management fall in this category, such as phentermine (Adipex, Fastin, and Zantryl), phendimetrazine (Bontril, Adipost, and Plegine), sibutramine (Meridia), methamphetamine (Desoxyn), and phenylethylamine (Fenphedra). Other over-the-counter medications, such as nasal decongestants containing ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, or phenylpropanolamine, can also lead to drug interference ( 51 , 65 ). Surgery As described earlier, surgical resection is the treatment of choice. A less invasive surgical method should be chosen based on the skill level of the surgical team. There are currently no prospective clinical trials that directly compare laparoscopic and open adrenalectomy techniques for PPGL in either adult or pediatric patients ( 66 ). An open surgical approach may be considered for patients who present with tumor size greater than 5-10 cm in diameter, multifocal tumors in the same area, presence of regional lymph node metastases on preoperative scans, or tumors that are invading or closely located to adjacent organs or vascular structures ( 66 ). The risks of operative mortality are extremely low if performed by an experienced surgical team, including a skilled anesthesiologist to monitor for intraoperative hypertensive crises ( 37 ). Surgery can also be used as a curative treatment for recurrent or limited metastatic tumors; it can also be used as a debulking technique for patients with extensive metastatic disease to reduce symptoms/signs and imminent complications from tumor size ( 2 ). However, the long-term benefits of debulking procedures for patients with metastatic disease may be limited ( 73 ). Chemotherapy In cases of rapidly growing tumors, chemotherapy is typically the preferred treatment strategy. Traditional chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and dacarbazine (CVD) has been used most extensively with progressive and widely metastatic PPGLs ( 81 , 82 ). This regimen is administered over two days and repeated every 21 days. CVD chemotherapy is usually well tolerated for long periods, with an increased time between the doses can be tried in patients who develop toxicities. Clinicians using chemotherapy should be aware of potentially fatal complications arising from excessive catecholamine release as tumor cells are destroyed (usually within the first 24 hours), and patients should be closely monitored, preferably in an intensive care unit, especially in patients who have extensive disease and high baseline catecholamine levels.
