Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


(usually within the first 24 hours), and patients should be closely monitored, preferably in an intensive care unit, especially in patients who have extensive disease and high baseline catecholamine levels. Recent studies have indicated that the use of tyrosine kinase inhibitors has shown promise in treating these tumors ( 67 ). A meta-analysis assessing CVD chemotherapy revealed that 37% of patients with metastatic pheochromocytoma or paraganglioma experienced a partial response to this treatment ( 68 ). However, it is important to note that this analysis included patients with minimal or no progression of metastatic lesions prior to their enrollment in the CVD chemotherapy protocol. In contrast, a separate study focusing exclusively on patients with progressive metastatic disease reported a response rate of 33%, with a corresponding, albeit non-significant, improvement in overall survival (6.4 years for responders versus 3.7 years for non-responders)( 69 ). When the genetics is taken into account, Cluster 1 metastatic PPGLs demonstrate a better response to CVD chemotherapeutic regimen compared to Cluster 2 tumors ( 70 , 71 ). This is particularly relevant for SDHB mutations, where complete or partial responses were observed in approximately 83% of cases ( 71 ). The potential response in other SDH mutations, such as A, C, and D, remains uncertain. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors, including sunitinib, axitinib, and more recently, lenvatinib, cabozantinib, and pazopanib, provide additional treatment options for these patients, with overall response rates similar to CVD chemotherapy in about one-third of patients (except those with SDH mutations) ( 67 , 72 , 73 ). These inhibitors may also be particularly useful for patients with Cluster 2 tumors and those with von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) syndrome who have not responded to CVD or temozolomide chemotherapy, as summarized in recent clinical reviews ( 74 , 75 ). Targeted Therapy Lately, theranostic-based targeted radiotherapeutic approaches are gaining popularity as a favored treatment for patients with metastatic, locally invasive, or inoperable pheochromocytoma or paraganglioma, particularly when the overall tumor growth rate is slow to moderate. These treatment techniques emphasize the targeting of receptors and transporters found on tumor cells, such as somatostatin receptors and the norepinephrine transporter, enabling a more personalized therapy plan ( 55 ). An additional advantage is the ability to obtain whole-body scans, which not only help monitor tumor burden and treatment response but also assist clinicians in deciding whether a change in therapeutic strategy is necessary. 131 I-MIBG, a targeted radionucleotide
