Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


scans, which not only help monitor tumor burden and treatment response but also assist clinicians in deciding whether a change in therapeutic strategy is necessary. 131 I-MIBG, a targeted radionucleotide therapy, is available in two strengths: low-specific activity (LSA) and high-specific activity (HSA) MIBG (Azedra®), which has received FDA approval ( 56 ). The HSA formula is nearly entirely composed of radiolabeled 131 I-MIBG, unlike the conventional or LSA formula, where 1 in 2000 MIBG molecules are radiolabeled with 131 I. As a result, HSA offers greater specificity and reduced side effects compared to LSA 131 I-MIBG ( 76 , 77 ). Typically, the single dose administered to patients using HSA is higher in radiation (approximately 500 mCi or 8 mCi/kg for those weighing less than 62.5 kg and can be repeated once) than LSA 131 I-MIBG (with an average dose of about 200 mCi, usually given in three doses) ( 77 ). In the initial single-arm phase II study, patients diagnosed with metastatic or inoperable pheochromocytoma and paraganglioma were treated with one or two cycles of HSA 131 I-MIBG ( 77 ). Within the first year, 23% of patients showed an objective partial response, while 69% maintained stable disease ( 77 ). The median overall survival for the initial treatment was 36.7 months. Predictably, the administration of HSA 131 I-MIBG resulted in myelosuppression in around 72% of patients, with myelodysplastic syndrome in 4% and acute leukemia in 3% ( 77 ). Some severe hematologic side effects might be attributed to previous systemic cytotoxic interventions (such as chemotherapy) in a number of patients. Notably, there were no acute cardiovascular incidents reported with this treatment approach ( 77 ). However, HSA has been discontinued in April 2024 and is no longer available worldwide. Another available radiotherapeutic option is PRRT ( 56 ), which utilizes either somatostatin receptor analogs DOTATATE or DOTATOC radiolabeled with 177 Lu or 90 Y; however, neither of these therapies is currently FDA-approved for these tumor types, although they have received approval from the European Medicines Agency (EMA). Among the various PRRT options, 177 Lu-DOTATATE (Lutathera®) is the most commonly used in medical institutions globally. In meta-analyses involving patients with metastatic or locally advanced pheochromocytoma or paraganglioma receiving either Lutathera® or 177 Lu/ 90 Y-DOTATATE/DOTATOC, 90% of individuals experienced either a partial response or stable disease ( 60 , 78 ). Consequently, the results associated with Lutathera® and
