Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tumors, metastatic, ppgls, free, imaging, tumor, pheochromocytoma, ppgl, article, paraganglioma, pmc, free article, pacak


and that no further follow-up is necessary. On long-term follow-up, about 17% of tumors recur, with about half of these showing signs of metastatic disease. Individuals with SDH mutations have a perpetual risk of pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas (PPGL), requiring continuous monitoring, even if they show no symptoms at first. Regular follow-up for asymptomatic carriers ( SDHA , SDHB , SDHC , SDHD ) should include annual clinical examinations, biochemical tests every 2 years during childhood and annually in adulthood, and MRI imaging every 2–3 years ( 52 ). Ultrasound and functional imaging are not recommended as first-line follow-up methods ( 52 ). If a carrier has never developed a tumor and remains asymptomatic, screening can be delayed to every 5 years after age 70, with follow-up ceasing at age 80 ( 52 ). It is crucial to conduct thorough screening for pregnant individuals with SDH mutations due to the elevated risks of PPGL during pregnancy ( 82 ). Although follow-up is especially important for patients identified with mutations of disease-causing genes, there is currently no method based on pathological examination of a resected tumor to rule out the potential for malignancy or recurrence. Thus, long-term periodic follow-up is recommended for all cases of PPGL ( 7 , 57 ). CONCLUSIONS PPGLs are neural crest-derived tumors, and currently, more than 40% have a known genetic cause. Thus, all patients with PPGLs should be considered for genetic testing. Genetic testing should be based on several considerations: syndromic features, family history, age at diagnosis, multifocal and metastatic presentation, tumor location, and the dopaminergic biochemical phenotype. PPGLs are tumors that are diagnosed based on the measurement of plasma or urinary free metanephrines and 3-methoxytyramine since 30% of these tumors do not secrete catecholamines. All patients with metastatic disease should undergo appropriate genetic testing based on the biochemical profile and primary tumor location. CT is an excellent imaging modality in patients with biochemically proven PPGL. MRI is recommended in patients with metastatic PPGL to liver, cardiac PGL, and also for detection of skull base and neck PGL; in patients with surgical clips that cause artifacts when using CT, in patients with an allergy to CT contrast, and in patients in whom radiation exposure should be limited (children, pregnant women, and those with recent excessive radiation exposure). 68 Ga DOTATATE scanning is the preferred functional modality in patients with metastatic disease and head and neck PGLs.
