Stress Testing
KEYWORDS: stress, exercise, patients, testing, coronary, stress testing, artery, coronary artery, ecg, echocardiography, used, heart, ischemia, acute, imaging


theophylline, caffeine) may produce a false-negative result, so such substances (including tea, coffee, cocoa, chocolate, certain energy supplements and drinks, and caffeinated sodas) should be avoided for 24 hours before testing. Exercise stress testing Exercise is preferred to drugs for increasing cardiac demand because it more closely replicates ischemia-inducing stressors. Usually, a patient walks on a conventional treadmill, following the Bruce protocol or a similar exercise schedule, until the target heart rate is reached or symptoms occur. The Bruce protocol (most commonly used) increases treadmill speed and slope incrementally at roughly 3- minute intervals. Pharmacologic stress testing Pharmacologic stress testing is usually used when patients cannot walk on a treadmill long enough to reach their target heart rate because of deconditioning, musculoskeletal disorders, obesity, peripheral arterial disease, or other disorders. Drugs used include IV dipyridamole, adenosine, regadenoson, and dobutamine. Dipyridamole augments endogenous adenosine, causing coronary artery vasodilation. It increases myocardial blood flow in normal coronary arteries but not in arteries distal to a stenosis, creating a “steal” phenomenon from stenosed arteries and an imbalance in perfusion. Dipyridamole-induced ischemia or other adverse effects (eg, nausea, vomiting, headache, bronchospasm) occur in about 10% of patients, but these effects can be reversed by IV aminophylline. Severe reactions occur in < 1% of patients. Contraindications include asthma, acute phase myocardial infarction (MI), unstable angina pectoris, critical aortic stenosis, and systemic hypotension (systolic BP < 90 mm Hg). Adenosine has the same effect as dipyridamole but must be given in a continuous IV infusion because it is rapidly degraded in the plasma. Adverse effects include transient flushing, chest pain, and tachycardia, which can be reversed by terminating the infusion. Regadenoson is a more selective adenosine agonist than either dipyridamole or adenosine and is non- inferior for the diagnosis of ischemia with fewer adverse effects and greater ease of administration. Dobutamine is an inotrope, chronotrope, and vasodilator used mainly when dipyridamole and adenosine are contraindicated (eg, in patients with asthma or 2nd-degree atrioventricular block) and when echocardiography is used to image the heart. Dobutamine must be used with caution in patients who have severe hypertension or arrhythmia, left ventricular outflow tract obstruction, multiple previous MIs, or acute MI. Diagnostic Stress Test Methodology Several imaging tests can detect ischemia after exercise or pharmacologic stress: ECG Radionuclide perfusion imaging Echocardiography Electrocardiography (ECG) ECG is always used with stress testing to diagnose coronary artery disease and help determine prognosis.
