Stress Testing
KEYWORDS: stress, exercise, patients, testing, coronary, stress testing, artery, coronary artery, ecg, echocardiography, used, heart, ischemia, acute, imaging


detect ischemia after exercise or pharmacologic stress: ECG Radionuclide perfusion imaging Echocardiography Electrocardiography (ECG) ECG is always used with stress testing to diagnose coronary artery disease and help determine prognosis. Stress ECG alone (ie, without radionuclide imaging or echocardiography) is most useful in patients with Intermediate likelihood of CAD based on age and sex Normal ECG at rest Diagnosis involves assessment of ST-segment response (a measure of global subendocardial ischemia), BP response, and the patient’s symptoms. Average sensitivity is 67%; average specificity is 72%. Sensitivity and specificity are lower in women partly because incidence of CAD is lower in young and middle-aged women. Prognosis worsens with depth of ST depression. Radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging Radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging is more sensitive (85 to 90%) and specific (70 to 80%) than ECG stress testing. Combining findings from both tests increases sensitivity for coronary artery disease. Myocardial perfusion imaging is particularly useful for patients with Baseline ECG abnormalities that may interfere with interpretation of ECG changes during a stress test (eg, bundle branch block, fixed-rate pacemakers, digitalis effects). High probability of false-positive results on exercise ECGs (eg, premenopausal women, patients with mitral valve prolapse) This imaging test can help determine the functional significance of coronary artery stenosis, identified by coronary angiography, when surgeons are choosing lesions to bypass or dilate via percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Echocardiography Echocardiography is useful when information about more than just perfusion is needed. Echocardiography detects wall motion abnormalities that are a sign of regional ischemia and, using Doppler techniques, helps evaluate valvular disorders that may contribute to or result from ischemia or valvular disorders unrelated to ischemia but which deserve concomitant evaluation. The echocardiogram is typically obtained immediately before and after an exercise treadmill test or during dobutamine infusion. Echocardiography is relatively portable, does not use ionizing radiation, has a rapid acquisition time, and is inexpensive, but it is difficult to carry out in patients with obesity and in patients with COPD and lung hyperinflation. Done by experts, stress echocardiography has a predictive value similar to that of stress myocardial radionuclide perfusion testing. Stress hemodynamic echocardiography is considered for selected individuals for diagnosis of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. Radionuclide ventriculography Radionuclide ventriculography is occasionally used with exercise stress testing instead of echocardiography to assess exercise ejection fraction (EF), the best prognostic indicator in patients with coronary artery disease. Normally, EF is ≥ 5 percentage points
