RESEARCH
KEYWORDS: antibiotic, intervention, urinary, care, tract, urinary tract, older, doi, infections, study, suspected, clusters, bmj, tract infections, suspected urinary


in frail older adults older, have physical or mental disabilities, or both, Implementation of the intervention resulted in a clinically relevant and dependency in activities of daily living, not use Summary reduction in antibiotic prescribing for suspected urinary tract prophylactic antibiotics, not receive hospice care, and infections (UTIs) without evidence for increased adverse outcomes not be estimated to have a very limited life expectancy Cluster 38 clusters consisting of Located in Poland, (≤1 month). Participation ended when participants Study design randomised general practices and older the Netherlands, died, moved away from the cluster, started prophylactic controlled trial adult care organisations Norway, and Sweden antibiotics, received hospice care, or were estimated 1041 frail older adults Mean age: Sex: Dementia: to have a very limited life expectancy (≤1 month). Population aged  years or older 86 years 71% women 44% incidence Participants were excluded from analysis if they participated for less than two months. At study start, Comparison Intervention Control the care organisations identified eligible participants Multifaceted antibiotic stewardship intervention Usual care and provided written study information. Enrolment was continued during the study for new patients in Decision Educational Educational and tool toolbox evaluation sessions the care of the participating care organisations. A researcher or nurse obtained written informed consent from participants (or their representatives in case of legal incapacity). 502 539 randomisation and blinding Outcomes Intervention v control, per person year Adjusted rate ratio % CI In November 2019, an independent data manager performed block randomisation to assign clusters Antibiotic prescriptions for suspected UTIs . . . to . . to intervention or usual care using SAS software Complications within  days aer suspected UTIs <. No important difference . All cause mortality . No important difference . cluster size (small ≤7%, medium 8-14%, large ≥15% of participants, see supplementary table S1). Owing © 2023 BMJ Publishing Group Ltd to the nature of the intervention, blinding was not 2 doi: | BMJ 2023;380:e072319 | the bmj Protected by including for uses related to text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. BMJ: first published as on February 2023. Downloaded from on May by guest. RESEARCH possible. To minimise the risk of contamination, the We used a participatory-action-research approach for study aims were not explicitly stated to the control implementation, integrated in sessions for education clusters; we invited them to participate in research and evaluation. In participatory action research, action on
