RESEARCH
KEYWORDS: antibiotic, intervention, urinary, care, tract, urinary tract, older, doi, infections, study, suspected, clusters, bmj, tract infections, suspected urinary


aims were not explicitly stated to the control implementation, integrated in sessions for education clusters; we invited them to participate in research and evaluation. In participatory action research, action on urinary tract infections in which they would be researchers go through a cyclical process of reflection randomised to receive education either during the on the local situation, development and planning study or after study completion. of interventions, and the action of implementation, followed by returning to reflection.26 27 We modified intervention this approach through previous development of the The healthcare professionals in the intervention decision tool and toolbox and providing education on clusters received a multifaceted antibiotic stewardship its use.22 intervention. Its development and tailoring were guided by our previous qualitative interview study; details on Intervention in practice the design have been published previously.22 23 We report At the start of the intervention period, healthcare the intervention following the Template for Intervention professionals received information about the decision Description and Replication (TIDieR) guidelines.25 The tool and toolbox materials. In each cluster, one or control clusters provided care as usual. more educational sessions were held with general The intervention period was intended to last practitioners and nursing staff, with a median duration four months and began in February 2020. After a of 60 minutes (range 40-120). During the educational month, it was interrupted by the first wave of the sessions, attending healthcare professionals (median covid-19 pandemic, resulting in a six month pause. In 5, range 1-21) received training from the researchers September 2020, the intervention period was resumed on how to recognise urinary tract infections using after a feasibility assessment of restarting the trial and the decision tool, followed by joint reflection on local intervention, considering the burden of the pandemic practice and plans for implementation. If the session months in Poland and the Netherlands (September to session was held on restart of the intervention period. October 2020), and three more months in Norway and Additionally, in 17 of 19 intervention clusters, at Sweden (September to November 2020). least one evaluation session took place with a median duration of 30 minutes (range 30-60). In these Intervention design sessions, healthcare professionals (median 3, range Figure 1 provides a visual overview of the intervention. 1-16) and researchers reflected on the implementation The antibiotic stewardship intervention consisted process and planned additional actions. When of a decision tool to guide appropriate antibiotic use possible, sessions
