RESEARCH
KEYWORDS: antibiotic, intervention, urinary, care, tract, urinary tract, older, doi, infections, study, suspected, clusters, bmj, tract infections, suspected urinary


intervention. 1-16) and researchers reflected on the implementation The antibiotic stewardship intervention consisted process and planned additional actions. When of a decision tool to guide appropriate antibiotic use possible, sessions were held at the workplace of the for suspected urinary tract infections in frail older healthcare professionals; however, most took place adults, which was developed by an international online because of the covid-19 pandemic. Researchers expert team and is congruent with the latest treatment and healthcare professionals had regular phone guidelines.5 8-11 To support implementation, we contact to monitor implementation progress. In one composed a toolbox of educational materials, such as general practice and one residential care home (part pocket cards, posters, and information leaflets. These of two separate Dutch clusters), no sessions took place materials targeted healthcare professionals as well as these facilities no longer wished to participate in the as patients and informal caregivers. Supplementary intervention after the covid-19 pause. material S1 includes the decision tool and examples of The antibiotic stewardship intervention and its toolbox materials.23 implementation were tailored in each country by the Antibiotic stewardship intervention Decision tool Toolbox with educational materials Antibiotic prescribing or active Such as pocket cards, posters, or e-learning monitoring based on symptoms Implementation using participatory action research Educational sessions Reflection Planning Evaluation sessions For general practitioners Multidisciplinary For nursing staff Action with key people Pause due February 2020 September to November 2020 to covid-19 Fig 1 | Design and implementation of the antibiotic stewardship intervention the bmj | BMJ 2023;380:e072319 | doi: 3 Protected by including for uses related to text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. BMJ: first published as on February 2023. Downloaded from on May by guest. RESEARCH research teams based on their local experience and and the role of others when a urinary tract infection qualitative interviews, and within the clusters by the was suspected.22 To accommodate varying group healthcare professionals through the participatory- sizes and differences in local collaborations, the action-research approach. We aligned toolbox educational sessions were multidisciplinary in Norway materials with national guidelines and added and Poland but separate for general practitioners and locally available materials. The qualitative study nursing staff in Sweden and the Netherlands. Across showed knowledge gaps on recognition of symptoms clusters, specific efforts by action researchers (ie, related to urinary tract infection and asymptomatic healthcare professionals and researchers) varied. bacteriuria, which we covered during the educational For example,
