RESEARCH
KEYWORDS: antibiotic, intervention, urinary, care, tract, urinary tract, older, doi, infections, study, suspected, clusters, bmj, tract infections, suspected urinary


SD=standard deviation. *No missing data on country, age, sex, site of residence. For other variables, <2% was registered as missing/ details, antibiotic treatment, and disease course were unknown, with the exception of recurrent urinary tract infections (n=30, 2.9%). prospectively registered on the day of consultation †Pragmatically defined as cognitive impairment without dementia diagnosis. and after seven and 21 days of follow-up (primary and ‡Range 0-6 from independent to dependent. secondary outcomes except all cause mortality). To evaluate the implementation separately in a process avoid missing suspected urinary tract infections with evaluation.23 antibiotic prescriptions (eg, if forgotten, prescribed out Outcomes registered these through a review of the medical files The primary outcome measure was the number of in Poland, the Netherlands, and Norway, and monthly antibiotic prescriptions for suspected urinary tract consultation of attending healthcare professionals in infections. The clinical suspicion of a urinary tract Sweden. All cause mortality (secondary outcome) was infection was not defined, but rather left to the registered when patients stopped study participation. attending doctor. Prescriptions were registered on the For scoring the appropriateness of antibiotic day of a suspected urinary tract infection or during prescriptions (secondary outcome), an independent 21 days of follow-up to include prescriptions after a researcher blinded to the trial arms scored prescriptions wait-and-see policy. Secondary outcomes included the as appropriate, inappropriate, or unknown when number of antibiotic prescriptions during office hours information was missing based on the decision tool on the day of a suspected urinary tract infection (we (see supplementary material S2). had planned in the protocol to evaluate this within the 21 days; however, data on whether the prescription was covid-19 impact within or outside of office hours were only available on We paused the study from March until August 2020, the day the urinary tract infection was suspected and during the intervention period. During the follow-up not on days 2 to 21), the number of inappropriate (not period, we collected anonymised data on covid-19 adherent to the decision tool) antibiotic prescriptions incidence in the participating care organisations at the for suspected urinary tract infections, and the number cluster level only. of suspected urinary tract infections. Additional secondary outcomes were adverse outcomes: the sample size number of complications within 21 days after each For the sample size calculation, we assumed a suspected urinary tract infection (ie, the presence clinically relevant reduction in antibiotic prescribing (yes or no) of delirium, pyelonephritis,
