RESEARCH
KEYWORDS: antibiotic, intervention, urinary, care, tract, urinary tract, older, doi, infections, study, suspected, clusters, bmj, tract infections, suspected urinary


across subgroups per country, in men, women, patients with and without dementia, with and without urinary incontinence, with and without an indwelling catheter, and younger and older than 80 years. ci=confidence interval loss to follow-up, we increased the cluster size to 20 prespecified prognostic factors: cardiovascular disease patients. In total, we aimed to include 680 participants and immunosuppression. All analyses were performed in 34 clusters.23 according to the intention-to-treat principle. Subsequently, we performed planned subgroup Data analysis analyses to assess the primary outcome in groups For the primary outcome, we used a generalised linear in each country, with different sex, age younger or mixed model for count outcomes with a negative older than 80 years, and the presence of dementia, binomial distribution. Two separate random intercepts urinary incontinence, and an indwelling catheter. We were included to correct for clustering at the level of assessed whether effect modification was present by a cluster (general practice and corresponding care incorporating interaction terms in the adjusted model organisation) and to correct for repeated measurements described above. This model was compared with the within patients. The comparison between intervention adjusted model using a likelihood ratio test. and control group was estimated with the time by In sensitivity analyses, we performed multiple treatment interaction (period by intervention). In a imputation to assess the impact of missing values second model, we adjusted for prespecified prognostic on variables selected as potential confounders. We factors: age, sex, dependency in activities of daily living imputed missing data using chained equations with (Katz activities of daily living score),30 presence of an predictive mean matching for continuous variables indwelling catheter, dementia, recurrent urinary tract and regression models for dichotomous and count infections, diabetes mellitus, and kidney disorders. variables, and included corrections for clustering. For secondary analyses on the numbers of suspected The imputation model was performed stratified urinary tract infections, antibiotic prescriptions in office per trial arm and included the prognostic factors hours, and inappropriate antibiotic prescriptions, we specified previously, urinary incontinence, faecal used the generalised linear mixed model for negative incontinence, mild cognitive impairment, pulmonary binomial distributions as described above. Because of disease, country, site of residence, and study period.31 the low incidence, we only present descriptive statistics We generated 40 imputed datasets. The primary and 21 days after each suspected urinary tract infection. To evaluate whether the covid-19 pandemic affected For all cause mortality, we used a generalised linear
