RESEARCH
KEYWORDS: antibiotic, intervention, urinary, care, tract, urinary tract, older, doi, infections, study, suspected, clusters, bmj, tract infections, suspected urinary


40 imputed datasets. The primary and 21 days after each suspected urinary tract infection. To evaluate whether the covid-19 pandemic affected For all cause mortality, we used a generalised linear intervention and usual care clusters differently, mixed model for binary outcomes, with a random we assessed the presence of covid-19 outbreaks in intercept to correct for clustering at the cluster level. participating clusters in anonymised data. We defined In the second model we adjusted for two additional an outbreak as three or more older adults with a the bmj | BMJ 2023;380:e072319 | doi: 7 Protected by including for uses related to text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. BMJ: first published as on February 2023. Downloaded from on May by guest. RESEARCH positive SARS-CoV-2 test result registered in the same least one symptom specific to the urinary tract was month in the same care organisation, and we present reported, of which the most common was urgency/ descriptive statistics. frequency of urination (49%) (see supplementary Data were analysed with SPSS version 26 table S3). Fever was reported in 18% of urinary tract (descriptive statistics) and Stata version 14 (mixed infection episodes, more frequently in the usual care model analyses). Multiple imputation was performed group than in the intervention group (21% v 11%). with the mice package 3.13 in R version 4.03. Primary and secondary outcomes Patient and public involvement Of 1041 participants, 799 were not prescribed The design of the antibiotic stewardship intervention antibiotics for a suspected urinary tract infection, was informed by results from qualitative in-depth and 242 participants received on average 1.4 (range interviews with patients, informal caregivers, and 1-5) antibiotic prescriptions during the entire study healthcare professionals in the four participating period. In the baseline period, the number of antibiotic countries.23 In the process of the trial design, a meeting prescriptions for suspected urinary tract infections was held with representatives of Network Utrecht care was 87 per 174 person years (0.50 per person year) in Center Utrecht, the Netherlands. Their suggestions on (0.44 per person year) in the usual care group (table the protocol were taken into account—for example, we 2). The primary outcome in the follow-up period included delirium among the registered complications was 54 per 202 person years (0.27 per person year) and created patient directed toolbox materials. in the intervention group and 121 per 209 person Also, the project was discussed with
