RESEARCH
KEYWORDS: antibiotic, intervention, urinary, care, tract, urinary tract, older, doi, infections, study, suspected, clusters, bmj, tract infections, suspected urinary


results. Additionally, it would have been valuable to similar in Poland (0.28, 0.11 to 0.73), the Netherlands evaluate patient reported outcomes, microbiological (0.32, 0.12 to 0.82), and Norway (0.40, 0.16 to 1.03), outcomes, and the cost effectiveness of our results. but not in Sweden (2.25, 0.57 to 8.88). We chose not to evaluate these outcomes to minimise participant burden and increase study feasibility. covid-19 outbreaks Furthermore, we used one sided testing for our In the follow-up period, 15 of 38 participating power calculation; nevertheless, we included enough clusters had at least one covid-19 outbreak (see participants and reported our results in line with supplementary table S5). Generally, the presence of recommendations.34 Finally, a possible limitation is outbreaks appeared to be relatively balanced between that the covid-19 pandemic affected the study. During intervention and control clusters; however, differences the pandemic, lower antibiotic use has been reported between countries were large. While seven out of in general practice; however, this decrease was found eight clusters in Poland had outbreaks, in Norway, predominantly for respiratory tract infections, not no clusters had outbreaks. In the Netherlands, three urinary tract infections.35 36 Any negative impact on intervention and two control clusters (out of 11) had the validity and generalisability of our results is likely outbreaks. In Sweden, outbreaks occurred in three to be limited, because the intervention and control intervention clusters only (see supplementary table groups were similarly affected by covid-19 outbreaks S5). in the countries where the intervention was effective (except for Sweden). That the intervention was effective discussion despite difficult circumstances for implementation is In this pragmatic cluster randomised controlled promising. trial in older adult care settings in four European Our study yielded several unanticipated findings. countries, implementation of a multifaceted antibiotic Firstly, clusters receiving usual care showed an overall stewardship intervention resulted in a substantial, increase in antibiotic prescribing over time (table 2). clinically relevant reduction in antibiotic prescription Prospectively registering urinary tract infections rates for suspected urinary tract infections with a rate might have prompted awareness of prescribing ratio of 0.42. This reduction in antibiotic use appeared behaviour (ie, a Hawthorne effect) and consequently to be safe, as adverse outcomes and all cause mortality lowered prescription rates in the baseline period did not differ between groups. in both groups.37 The overall increase in the follow- up period could reflect regression to the mean in strengths and weaknesses of this study clusters
