RESEARCH
KEYWORDS: antibiotic, intervention, urinary, care, tract, urinary tract, older, doi, infections, study, suspected, clusters, bmj, tract infections, suspected urinary


did not differ between groups. in both groups.37 The overall increase in the follow- up period could reflect regression to the mean in strengths and weaknesses of this study clusters with usual care. Secondly, in Sweden, no The strength of this study lies in the combination apparent beneficial intervention effect was observed. of methodologies that allowed us to deal with the Importantly, the rate ratio estimate of 2.25 (95% complexity of this topic. The previous qualitative confidence interval 0.57 to 8.88) has considerable study gave us a deeper understanding of the relevant uncertainty (fig 3). The antibiotic prescribing rates decision making processes, the knowledge gaps were relatively low in both the intervention group and in recognition of asymptomatic bacteriuria and the usual care group and decreased even further in urinary tract infections, and the heterogeneous care the usual care group. These low rates are presumably settings, thereby improving the antibiotic stewardship a consequence of the Swedish strategic programme intervention.22 The participatory-action-research against antibiotic resistance (Strama), which has been component enabled healthcare professionals to tailor implemented for many years and includes specific implementation to their practice. Finally, the pragmatic actions for urinary tract infections in older adults.38 39 controlled trial design in a diverse international setting Furthermore, patients with dementia were under- increased generalisability of the results. represented in Sweden (see supplementary table S2), This study also had several limitations. Firstly, we whereas the intervention effect appeared to be much prospectively registered data on suspected urinary stronger in this subgroup. tract infections and thus could not collect information on antibiotic prescriptions for other indications. comparison with literature Theoretically, the decrease in antibiotic use for Our findings are consistent with several previous suspected urinary tract infections could have been studies in showing a reduction in antibiotic use for accompanied by an increase in antibiotic use for other suspected urinary tract infections without evidence for indications.33 This could be why a smaller number of increased adverse outcomes.14-18 40 41 Our intervention patients in the intervention group presented with fever was centred around a decision tool and, similar compared with the usual care group (see supplementary to others, was multifaceted with an educational table S3). Our intervention could therefore have component.14 42 43 In the United States, a comparable prompted healthcare professionals to better evaluate decision tool restricted to uncomplicated cystitis was the bmj | BMJ 2023;380:e072319 | doi: 9 Protected by including for
