RESEARCH
KEYWORDS: antibiotic, intervention, urinary, care, tract, urinary tract, older, doi, infections, study, suspected, clusters, bmj, tract infections, suspected urinary


the United States, a comparable prompted healthcare professionals to better evaluate decision tool restricted to uncomplicated cystitis was the bmj | BMJ 2023;380:e072319 | doi: 9 Protected by including for uses related to text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. BMJ: first published as on February 2023. Downloaded from on May by guest. RESEARCH developed and evaluated as useful in long term care conclusion settings.41 44 Our results in European settings further A multifaceted antibiotic stewardship intervention endorse consensus recommendations for use of a safely reduced antibiotic prescribing for suspected decision tool.6 When a meta-analysis evaluated the urinary tract infections in older adults. Implementation impact of antibiotic stewardship interventions in long across diverse older adult care settings requires the term care settings, it found that they were associated active participation of all healthcare professionals, as with a 14% reduction in antibiotic use.18 Although well as tailoring to the local situation. study designs varied considerably, our effect size—a rate ratio of 0.42—is larger compared with most authOr aFFiliatiOns studies. This is exactly the same effect size as found 1Department of Medicine for Older People, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Amsterdam, Netherlands participation of nursing staff and incorporation of the complexity of the setting comprising multiple stakeholders.21 25 45-48 Understanding the value of the Care, Region Västra Götaland, Borås, Sweden studies reported positive effects on (appropriate) We thank the general practices and older adult care organisations for their participation. antibiotic use; however, the authors underlined that compliance with components was poorly reported.49 Contributors: CH, TV, ML, PS, and MGC conceptualised the study and obtained funding. AP drafted the study protocol with EH, WG, SHO, To improve reporting, the TIDieR checklist can provide ML, SH, PS, RG, ESA, MGC, AK, TP, AM, NZ, TV, and CH. EH, SHO, SL, SS, guidance.25 We used this checklist and plan to identify and AK collected data. EH, SHO, SL, ML, SH, PS, SS, ESA, AK, MGC, WG, AM, TV, and CH designed and delivered the intervention. NZ, AP, and factors for successful implementation in a separate EH wrote the statistical analysis plan. NZ and EH performed statistical process evaluation.23 analyses. EH drafted the manuscript, which was critically revised by all authors. All authors read and approved the final manuscript. EH and AP are guarantors. The corresponding author attests that all implications for practice and future research listed authors meet authorship criteria and that no others meeting
