RESEARCH
KEYWORDS: antibiotic, intervention, urinary, care, tract, urinary tract, older, doi, infections, study, suspected, clusters, bmj, tract infections, suspected urinary


the final manuscript. EH and AP are guarantors. The corresponding author attests that all implications for practice and future research listed authors meet authorship criteria and that no others meeting the Our multifaceted antibiotic stewardship intervention criteria have been omitted. can be recommended for use in clinical practice to Funding: This work was supported by the Joint Programming Initiative reduce antibiotic use for suspected urinary tract on Antimicrobial Resistance (reference No JPIAMR_2017_P007) through national funding agencies: National Science Centre infections in frail older adults. From our subgroup Poland (UMO-2017/25/Z/NZ7/03024), ZonMw the Netherlands analyses, the antibiotic stewardship intervention (549003002), the Research Council of Norway (284253/H10), appears to be effective across most subgroups, and the Swedish Research Council (2017-05975). The Healthcare Board, Region Västra Götaland (VGFOUREG-855761, 932013, and indicating wide applicability for implementation. 969127) partially funded the Swedish part of the study. The funders The effectivity across diverse settings in our study had no role in or authority in the study design, data collection, data makes it plausible that tailored implementation analysis, interpretation, writing, or the decision to submit the article for publication. in other countries would be effective as well. Competing interests: All authors have completed the ICMJE uniform Moreover, we find it promising that the intervention disclosure form at www.icmje.org/disclosure-of-interest/ and declare: effect appeared to be much stronger in patients support from the Joint Programming Initiative on Antimicrobial with dementia, because antibiotic stewardship Resistance through national funding agencies National Science usually is difficult in this population.50 Therefore, Centre Poland, ZonMw the Netherlands, the Research Council of Norway, and the Swedish Research Council, and support from the implementation should perhaps be prioritised in Healthcare Board, Region Västra Götaland for the submitted work; care settings for patients with dementia. Another no financial relationships with any organisations that might have an relevant finding is that the intervention effect interest in the submitted work in the previous three years; no other relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced the appeared to be weaker in patients with urinary submitted work. SH is head of the Antibiotic Center for Primary Care, to apply because recognition of symptoms specific quality improvement/antibiotic stewardship programmes for nursing homes. to the urinary tract is more complicated in patients Ethical approval: This study was approved by the Committee of tract infections in these patients. Finally, whereas in Norway (2018/2521/REK sør-øst A), and the Swedish Ethical Review Authority (2019-00796/1228-18(2019-02541)). In
