Original Article 432 Balkan Med J 2017;34:432-5
KEYWORDS: resistance, study, antibiotic, period, urinary, utis, patterns, children, antibiotic resistance, treatment, tract, urinary tract, years, gram, infections


The Balkan Medical Journal published by Galenos Publishing House. Gökçe et al. Bacterial Resistance Patterns of Urinary Tract Infections 433 problem in children. If treatment is delayed or inadequate, Gram (-) bacteria to antimicrobials (ampicillin, amoxicillin- recurrent UTIs in particular can lead to permanent damage clavulanate, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, cefazolin, including renal parenchymal scarring, poor kidney function, cefuroxime, ceftriaxone, cefixime (first, second and third high blood pressure and even chronic kidney disease (1). generation cephalosporins), amikacin (an aminoglycoside) UTIs are treated empirically until urine culture results are and ciprofloxacin (a fluoroquinoline) was identified. Written available. Due to unnecessary and inappropriate use of informed consent was obtained from at least one parent and antibiotics and the failure of empirical treatment in community- ethical approval was obtained from the Marmara University uropathogens, especially among Gram-negatives, worldwide AEK/120187481). (2). Statistical analysis Physicians should know the antibiotic susceptibility patterns of uropathogens to determine appropriate empirical therapy. When Statistical analysis was performed using The Statistical Package prescribing empirical therapy for community-acquired UTIs, for the Social Sciences 16.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, Illinois, we should be aware of resistance patterns in our community. USA). The frequency of microorganisms and their resistance Because antibiotic resistance patterns may change over time to the tested antibiotics were compared for two time periods, in the same geographical region, continued monitoring is namely, 2001-2003 and 2011-2014 using the chi-square test. required. Therefore, in the present study, we studied the The accepted level of significance was 0.05. changing susceptibility patterns of commonly used antibiotics in community UTIs and, in particular, in community-acquired RESULTS Gram (-) UTIs in children over a 10-year period. Four hundred and sixty-five uncomplicated community- acquired Gram (-) UTIs were analysed in study period 1 MATERIALS AND METHODS (2001-2003) and 400 in study period 2 (2011-2014). Sixty- one percent of patients were female (1.5 girls : 1 boy). In study Patients period 1, 59% of patients were female (1.42 girls : 1 boy) In this retrospective study, the study population consisted of whereas in study period 2, 64% of patients were female (1.75 children aged from 2 months to 16 years living on the Asian girls : 1 boy). The mean age of children included in the study side of İstanbul, who were admitted or consulted with culture- was 3 years and 9 months (between 2 months and 16 years) proven Gram (-) UTIs to the Paediatric Nephrology Clinic (in study period
