Hindawi
KEYWORDS: liver, lipid, metabolism, lipid metabolism, insulin, hepatic, fibrosis, hcc, steatosis, cells, metabolic, abnormal, pathway, related, hscs


Triglycerides are insulin isdependent oncoordinating intracellular signaling the main components of lipid droplets, and if the content pathways. Insulin can activate IRTK (insulin receptor tyro- of triglycerides in lipid droplets is high or low, this can sine kinase), which mediates the phosphorylation of ATP lead to lipid metabolism disorders. Papazyan R found that to stimulate the metabolism of glucose in association with whenthesynthesisoftriglycerideswasreducedbydepressing PDK1andmTORC2.Insulincanalsodownregulateglycogen diacylglycerol acylase, oxidative stress, inflammation, fibro- related enzymes and inactivate glycogen synthase kinase sis, and cell damage were aggravated despite a reduction whichreducestheproductionofglucoseintheliver. in hepatic steatosis . Perilipin-5 regulates the storage of triglycerides inlipiddroplets. Iftheexpression ofperilipin- 2.3.The Relationshipbetween GlucoseMetabolism and Lipid 5 is downregulated, this leads to pathological lipolysis and Metabolism. Sugar metabolism is closely related to lipid lipotoxicity although the lipid droplets are small . Con- liver steatosis. When insulin resistance occurs, lipolysis is storedinaninertstoragemodetopreventthedevelopment suppressedand lipid synthesis isincreased duetothe effect of NASH from NAFLD. The study by Raichur S showed ofhyperinsulinemia. Abnormallipidmetabolism, especially an interesting phenomenon, where a significant increase in theaccumulation ofectopiclipids,iscloselyassociated with ceramidecontentwasobservedinamousemodelofNASH insulin resistance. Samuel VT found that the inhibitory .Ceramideisanintermediatemetaboliteofsphingolipid effect of insulin on liver gluconeogenesis was significantly whichcan be upregulated by highexpression of proinflam- reduced . Diacylglycerol is a product of lipolysis, which matory factors. Ceramide can accelerate the progression of can activate PKC to impair the insulin signal. Raddatz K hepatic steatosis to NASH due to the promotion of inflam- foundthatalthoughthefatcontentintheliverincreased,the mation byinteracting with TNF-𝛼. Whentheexpression of levelofinsulin resistance decreased significantly in highfat ceramideisdownregulated,complicationssuchasfattyliver, fedPrkce(acoregenewhichpromoteslipolysistoupregulate celldamage,andinsulinresistanceintheNASHmodelcanbe diacylglycerol content) knockout mice . Ectopic lipid alleviated. accumulationinthelivercanactivaterelatedpathwayswhich Lipotoxicitynotonlyisharmfultocellsundertheregu- regulateinsulinfunctionresultinginreducedglucoseuptake lationofinflammatorymechanisms,endoplasmicreticulum andhepaticglycogensynthesisinvivo.Theaccumulationof stress, and reactive oxygen species (ROS), but also affects ectopic lipid increases the transport of glucose to the liver the biological functions of organelles. The most important and stimulates de novo lipid synthesis which can lead to organelles affected are mitochondria and the endoplasmic hyperlipidemia.Inaddition,inametabolicandinflammatory reticulum.Studieshaveshownthatincreasing thelevel environment caused by lipid accumulation, macrophages ofautophagyintheliverinthenonalcoholicfattylivermodel are increased in white adipose tissue which promotes the can eliminate polarization and damaged mitochondria . esterification of fatty acids and induces hyperlipidemia. ThisprocessreducesATPconsumption and theproduction Macrophagescanalsoregulatelipolysis,whichresultsinthe of free radicals which is caused by the reverse function of transportationoffattyacidstotheliverandtheaccumulation mitochondrialATPsynthetase.Incontrast,ifmitochondrial ofacetyl-CoAintheliver.Acetyl-CoAisastrongactivatorof autophagyissuppressed,severelivermitochondrialdamage pyruvatecarboxylase,whichcanpromotethetransformation andhepaticsteatosiswilldevelop.Therefore,mitochon- ofglyceroltoglucoseknownasgluconeogenesis. drial autophagy plays an important role in the reduction Whentheliverisinapathologicalstate,livermetabolism of hepatic steatosis and inhibition of the progression of homeostasisisdamaged,andmetabolicdisorderswillfurther NAFLDtoNASH. Inaddition tomitochondrial autophagy, aggravateliverdisease.Consequently, itisessentialtodeter- liver steatosis can also cause the changes of mitochondrial mine the relationship between liver
