Hindawi
KEYWORDS: liver, lipid, metabolism, lipid metabolism, insulin, hepatic, fibrosis, hcc, steatosis, cells, metabolic, abnormal, pathway, related, hscs


of hepatic steatosis and inhibition of the progression of homeostasisisdamaged,andmetabolicdisorderswillfurther NAFLDtoNASH. Inaddition tomitochondrial autophagy, aggravateliverdisease.Consequently, itisessentialtodeter- liver steatosis can also cause the changes of mitochondrial mine the relationship between liver diseases and metabolic dynamics. Excessive fat accumulation can directly lead to disorders. the mitochondrial damage . Nakagawa H found that endoplasmic reticulum stress plays an important role in 3.MajorLiver Diseases the development of NASH from hepatic steatosis. When the level of endoplasmic reticulum stress was improved in 3.1. Hepatic Steatosis. Hepatic steatosis is one of the major mice,obviousNASHcharacteristicsappearedinhepatocytes, morbidity rate is approximately 25% . When liver cell bridging “netted” fibrosis. When hepatic steatosis has pro- damage, inflammation, and fibrosis occur, simple hepatic gressedtoNASH,itcanquicklydevelopintoaliveradenoma steatosisistransformedintoNASHwhichisahighriskfactor andeventuallyleadtoHCC. BioMedResearchInternational 3 In addition to lipotoxicity, “glucose toxicity” caused by cells, and macrophages induced bymonocytes which result glucosemetabolismdisordersisinvolvedinthepathogenesis in upregulated metabolic inflammation . This process of NASH. Excess carbohydrates activate the fat synthesis of cell recruitment aggravates the chronic inflammatory pathwaywhichisregulatedbyacetyl-CoAcarboxylase,SCD- reaction in the liver. Mononuclear cells can secrete fibrotic 1,andfattyacidsynthasetoaggravatehepaticsteatosis.Fruc- factorssuchasTGF-𝛽andPDGF.Thesefibroticfactors tose can increase the expression of CD36 and is associated not only upregulate monocyte-induced macrophages, but withdenovolipidsynthesis-relatedproteinssuchasChREBP also promote the differentiation of HSCs into myofibrob- topromotelipidsynthesis .Excessglucoseandfructose lasts. The above process is the main source of extracellu- canregulatetheexpressionofChREBPandSREBP1cdirectly. lar matrix, especially collagen, in liver fibrosis caused by In addition, fructose can also improve the downstream fat chronicinflammation .TheIL-1andTNFpathwayscan synthesisgenetopromotetheaccumulationoflipids.SofticS prolong the survival time of HSCs which is regulated by confirmedthathepaticsteatosis inmicewasaggravated fol- mononuclear cells . Kazankov K analyzed macrophage lowingtheinhibitionoffructosemetabolism.Theincidence markers in more than 300 patients with hepatic steatosis. ofhepaticsteatosiswasalsosignificantlyincreasedinhumans He found that the level of macrophage activation is closely withfructosemetabolismdisorders. related to the grade of liver fibrosis and disease . Lipid metabolismalsoparticipatesintheactivationofmacrophages 3.2. Hepatic Fibrosis. Most chronic liver injuries can evolve . Adipocytokines play multiple roles in the progression into liver fibrosis which is closely related to the activation from NAFLD to liver cirrhosis. Leptin promotes the liver ofHSCs. TheprocessbywhichHSCsareactivated involves fibrosis,butadiponectinpreventstheprogressofliverfibrosis thetransformation ofHSCsfromthestaticstateinVitamin . Leptin can upregulate the expression of the 𝛼SMA, A lipid droplets to the facilitated fibrous state . The Type 1 Collagen, and TGF𝛽. Hedgehog pathway which is HSCsinthefacilitatedfibrousstatecantransdifferentiateinto closelyassociatedwithliverfibrosisisregulatedbylipid. myofibroblastsandproducesuperfluousECM(extracellular The Hedgehog pathway can activate HSCs to transform it matrix)whichisresponsibleforliverfibrosis.Inthisprocess, intoproliferatingmyofibroblast.WhenNAFLDprogressesto the intracellular vitamin A will be lost. Liver fibrosis is an NASHwhosepathologicalfeatureisliverfibrosis,theexpres- effectiveindicatorofliver-relatedcomplications andspecific sionofHedgehogissignificantlyupregulated.Hedgehog liver diseases. Liver disease can lead to vitamin A home- signalingpathwayisalsoinvolvedinlipidsynthesisandsugar ostasisimpairedandleadtovitaminAdeficiencyeventually. utilization . Guy CD found that when the Hedgehog
