Hindawi
KEYWORDS: liver, lipid, metabolism, lipid metabolism, insulin, hepatic, fibrosis, hcc, steatosis, cells, metabolic, abnormal, pathway, related, hscs


lost. Liver fibrosis is an NASHwhosepathologicalfeatureisliverfibrosis,theexpres- effectiveindicatorofliver-relatedcomplications andspecific sionofHedgehogissignificantlyupregulated.Hedgehog liver diseases. Liver disease can lead to vitamin A home- signalingpathwayisalsoinvolvedinlipidsynthesisandsugar ostasisimpairedandleadtovitaminAdeficiencyeventually. utilization . Guy CD found that when the Hedgehog Lipolysis can stimulate the activation of HSCs which can signalingpathwayissuppressed,theaccumulationofmuscle promotethesecretion ofextracellular matrixand accelerate fibroblastsinthelivercanbereduced. theprocessofliverfibrosis.Hepaticsteatosisinthelong termmayevolve toliverfibrosis.Cholesterolisaconfirmed 3.3.HepatocellularCarcinoma. Although the main riskfac- endogenous activator of LXR (liver X receptor) which can torsforHCCareHBVandHCVinfection,HCCinducedby not only regulate lipometabolism and glycometabolism but virusinfectionisdecreasingannuallyduetothedevelopment also modulate the activation of HSCs . In addition to ofeffectivehepatitisBvaccinesandanti-HCVdrugs. lowering cholesterol uptake, LXR prevents the progression Obesity,ahighriskfactorforHCC,hasattractedsignificant of liver fibrosis. Beaven, S. W et al. found that the mice attention . When lipid metabolism is disturbed, the whichlackLXR𝛼andLXR𝛽areeasiertodevelopliverfibrosis balance is broken between lipid synthesis and lipid decom- .Ithasbeenprovedthatlipiddroplet-associatedprotein position.Thedecreaseoflipoproteinsynthesisandlipophagy RAB18playsanimportantroleinthemetabolismofvitamins canresultinlipotoxicitywhichmaycausechronicliverinjury and cholesterol . Lipid metabolism disorder can lead .Lipotoxicityisoneoftheimportantmechanismsforthe to the downregulation of PPAR and/or the dysfunction of developmentofNASHtoHCC.Consequently,themetabolic PPAR.PPARcanreversetheprocessofHSCsactivationand relatedfactorssuchastypeIIdiabetes,obesity,andmetabolic preventthedevelopmentofliver fibrosisbydownregulating syndrome are becoming the risk factors of HCC. Scientists the expression of fibrogenic cytokines secreted by HSCs. are paying more and moreattention to metabolic disorders StudieshaveshownthattheinhibitionofPPARcanincrease andHCC.Peoplewithabdominalobesityhaveahigherrisk theriskofsufferingliverfibrosisandtheactivation ofPPAR ofHCC.Visceralfatisofgreatsignificanceinpredicting canreduceliverinjuryandliverfibrosis.Itisstrange therecurrenceofHCC.Thelipidaccumulationcausedby thattheexpression ofBMP6(bonemorphogenetic protein) abnormal lipidmetabolism mayresultintheremodeling of isupregulated inNAFLDbut notin other liver diseases. In adiposetissue.Inthereconstitutedadiposetissue,thediffer- thestudyinvitro,itisfoundthatBMP6inhibitstheactivity entiation oftheadipocytesisactivated andtheangiogenesis of HSCs and reduces the expression of the fibrotic gene appears, which provides a favorable microenvironment for .Theremustbeaconnection between lipidmetabolism the development of HCC. Not only that, abnormal lipid and BMP6 activation, but the specific mechanism is not metabolismcanleadtothedisorderedsecretoryofadipokine clear. Macrophages play an important role in the progres- characterizedbyleptinreductionandincreasedadiponectin. sion of liver fibrosis because it has obvious improvement Leptincannotonlypromotethedevelopmentofliverfibrosis, of liver fibrosis after exhaustion of macrophages . but also promote the development of HCC by activating During metabolic disorder, CCL2 and MCP-1 can activate JAK/STAT pathway and ERK pathway. Upregulated leptin fibroblast-related macrophages such as phagocytes, Kupffer caninhibittheapoptosisoftumortissuethroughsuppressing 4 BioMedResearchInternational antiapoptotic pathwaymediated byTGF𝛽.Leptinplays insulin increase the level of IGF-1 and its bioavailability. aroleinpromotingtheproliferationoftumorcells.Whatis Activated IGF-1 can inhibit the receptor-mediated apop- more,leptincanalsoprovideamicroenvironmentfortumor tosis pathway in tumor cells and promote their prolifer- growth. The biological function of adiponectin is opposite ation . Hyperglycemia and insulin resistance increase toleptin.Adiponectincaninhibittheproliferationoftumor the expression of proinflammatory factors TNF-𝛼 and IL- cellsthroughregulatingAMPKsignalingpathwayandmTOR 6, which can lead to chronic inflammation. Hyperglycemia signaling pathway. Jiang CM found that low adiponectin can induce the accumulation of ROS. Excess ROS can be is closely related to the occurrence of HCC . Senes- combinedwithDNAwhichleadstothedevelopmentofHCC cent adipocytes which secret more cytokines can aggravate . chronic
