Hindawi
KEYWORDS: liver, lipid, metabolism, lipid metabolism, insulin, hepatic, fibrosis, hcc, steatosis, cells, metabolic, abnormal, pathway, related, hscs


induce the accumulation of ROS. Excess ROS can be is closely related to the occurrence of HCC . Senes- combinedwithDNAwhichleadstothedevelopmentofHCC cent adipocytes which secret more cytokines can aggravate . chronic inflammation associated with obesity. The process abovewhichiscalledtheSASPcanpromotethedevelopment 3.4. Acute Liver Failure. Acute liver failure is characterized ofHCC.WhentheSASPprocessissuppressed,theincidence by massive liver cell necrosis. Acute liver injury is often ofHCCissignificantly reduced.Chronicinflammation accompanied by metabolic disorders, acidosis, and sepsis. causedbylivermetabolicdiseases,liverfibrosis,thedeathof Thesecomplicationscanleadtohypoglycemia,hypokalemia, parenchymal cells, and lack of monitoring the proliferation lactic acidosis, and hyperammonemia. Abnormal levels of ofabnormalliverparenchymalcellsarethemainriskfactors metabolites can induce coma. Metabolic dysfunction is an for HCC. Park EJ conducted research on the correlation important factor in the deterioration of acute liver failure betweenobesityandlivercancer,whichconfirmedthatthere . Abnormality of lipoprotein metabolism is caused by isarelationshipbetweenabnormallipidmetabolismandthe acuteliverfailureandincreasesthecontentofcholesterolon developmentofHCC.Theauthorsfoundthatmalemicewith thecellmembrane.Thisprocesscanreducethedeformability a high fat diet were more likely to develop HCC. This may of cells. This is the reason that cells are more vulnerable to berelatedtotheactivation ofHSCsandhepatocytes, which damage in people with abnormal lipid metabolism. Lyso- can secrete TNF and IL-6 to activate STAT3. STAT3 is an somal lipase is an important enzyme which can hydrolyze importanttumortranscriptionfactor,whichcanpromotethe triglycerides and cholesterol. This enzyme is essential to occurrence of liver cancer . In addition to the theory decompose lipid into free cholesterol and free fatty acids. of inflammatory induction, some scholars believe that the When this enzyme is suppressed, lipid can deposit in the progression of NASH to HCC is caused by the TNF signal liverandfinallyformintoacuteliverfailure.Thedisease activated by TNFR1. The TNFR1 signal in hepatocytes and hepatoma progenitor cells can be upregulated by IKK𝛽 whichlackslysosomallipaseiscalledWolmandisease(lyso- to activate the NF-𝜅B signaling pathway which mediates somal acid lipase deficiency). Abnormal glycometabolism also induces acute liver failure. When the people are short cell proliferation. Nakagawa H found that inhibition of the ofhepaticfructose1-phosphatealdolase,eating fructosecan TNFR1signalnotonlypreventedtheprogressionofNAFLD leadtoacuteliverfailure.AcuteliverfailurecanresultinOS to NASH, but also decreased the incidence of HCC . (oxidative stress),whichbringsaboutchangesinmitochon- With abnormal lipid metabolism, the production of ROS is increased by upregulating 𝛽-oxidation and 𝜔-oxidation. drialstructuralproteinsandDNAresultinginATPdepletion andimpairedATPproduction.ExcessaccumulationofROS Oxidative stress can damage the genome and aggravate the can induce a shift in JNK proteins in mitochondria, which mitochondrialburden.Theinjuredlivercellscanalsoactivate are responsible for mitochondrial inactivation, aggravation theJNKpathwaywhichisrelatedtocellsurvivalandstress. of OS, and liver injury . There is transient lipid accu- Metabolic disorder of lipids also plays an important role mulation in the liver after major hepatectomy. Therefore, in tumor recurrence . A prospective study found that acuteliverfailureafterhepatectomyisoftenaccompaniedby excessive ROS caused by abnormal lipid metabolism can lipid metabolism disorders. Ekaterina Kachaylo found that
