JournalofCrohn'sandColitis(2014)8,1179–1207
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, crohn, children, therapy, crohn disease, treatment, remission, etal, pediatric, sdisease, bowel, ifx, infliximab, risk


recurrence within the family is more prevalent than in websites of both societies ESPGHAN and ECCO. Tools that adults.3,4Childhoodisatimeofdynamicphysicalchanges, facilitate the use of the guidelines are made available as boneaccrualandgrowthalongwithemotionalmaturation. treatmentalgorithmsandwithsupplementaltables.Guide- Pediatric inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is also more linememberswillpresenttheguidelinestotheirrespective often extensive and is associated with a more aggressive nationalsocietiesandprovidetranslationswheneverpossible. disease course, including a greater propensity for disease Anupdateofthecurrentguidelinesisplannedevery3–4years extensionandearlyimmunomodulation.5–7 by the pediatric ECCO/ESPGHAN IBD working groups. The The cumulative risk of progression to complicated CD groupwillseekanevaluationoftheapplicabilityandimpact (i.e.fistulizingorstricturingdisease)issimilartoadults,but ofguidelinesbytheusersinordertoimprovetheupdate. byvirtueofearlyonsetofdisease,childrenaremorelikely tohaveundergonesurgerybyyoungadulthood.Bytheageof 1.3. Treatment goals 30years,theriskofsurgicalresectionwas48±5%and14±2% in pediatric and adult onset CD, respectively.7 The develop- TheaimsoftherapyinpediatricCDtraditionallyhavebeen mentofnewmedicationsinclinicaltrialsettingsmayhavethe torelievesymptoms,optimizegrowth,andimprovequality potentialtochangethenaturalhistory,butentailhighercosts of life while minimizing drug toxicity. The notion that andadditionaltoxicity.Evidence-basedconsensusstatements achievingmucosalhealingmaypotentiallychangethenatural canprovideguidanceforphysicianswhocareforthisvulnerable history of the disease and decrease the need for surgeryhas andcomplicatedpopulation. placed “deep remission” (meaning mucosal healing) in the Theobjectiveoftheseguidelinesistoprovidestateofthe centerofinterestasbeingthedesiredtreatmenttarget.Early art guidance for medical treatment and long term manage- treatment with biologics and immunomodulatory agents ment of children and adolescents with CD, while individual- improve rates of mucosal healing and clinical remission in izingtherapybasedonriskandbenefit,basedonathorough adults8–10andthereisfirstevidenceinpediatricCDpatients.11 reviewoftheexistingevidence.Theguidelinesareintended InaFrenchGETAIDcomparativestudyof51adultCDpatients, to help and support (pediatric) gastroenterologists who are mucosalhealingwasachievedin2/18(11%)withmethotrexate experiencedinthecareofchildrenandadolescents. (MTX),in9/18(50%)withazathioprine(AZA)andin9/15(60%) with infliximab IFX.12 Induction of complete mucosal healing 1.1. Consensus/guidelines strategy withIFXinearly-stageCDpredictedsustainedclinicalremission andsteroid-freeremissioninadults.13 Theguidelineshavebeenpreparedbyaninternationalworking However,therisksandbenefitsoftreattotargetstrategies groupofspecialistsinpediatricIBDfromtheEuropeanSociety whenpatientsareinremissionarestill controversialandthe of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition evidenceonwhichtobasefirmrecommendationsforescalat- (ESPGHAN)andtheEuropeanCrohn'sandColitisOrganization ingmedicaltherapytoachievethistargetinlowriskpatients (ECCO), following an open call to the societies' members as well as the selection of patients for early aggressive constitutingtheGuidelineDevelopmentGroup(GDG).Atotal immunotherapy remains difficult to ascertain. Moreover, the of25topicsweredistributedbetweenfiveworkinggroups,as necessarydegreeofmucosalhealingandthenecessarydepth sucheachtopicwasaddressedbyatleast2authorswhoalso of transmural healing are still unclear. Pediatric magnetic performedasystematicreviewoftherelevantliterature. resonance imaging (MRI)-based inflammatory and damage Databases used included Medline-PubMed, Pre medline, scores are under development, similar to the MaRIA and Embase and the Cochrane Library using appropriate search Lemann-scoresdevelopedforadultCD,andoffertheopportu- strategiesrelevant totheclinicalquestions(available upon nitytoevaluatemorethansimplymucosalhealing.14,15 request);lastsearchdatewasJune30th,2013.Therewasno Non-invasivebiomarkersofmucosalhealingsuchasfecal formal quality appraisal of the included studies but the calprotectin are particularly useful forchildren asaway of contents were discussed during the meetings. The level of monitoring resolution or recurrence of intestinal inflamma- evidence was scored according to the Oxford Centre for tion,16 but the cutoff value in each scenario that should Evidence-Based Medicine 2011 Levels of Evidence. (http:// triggerchangeinmanagementisstillelusive. www.cebm.net/mod_product/design/files/CEBM-Levels-of- Improvedqualityoflifeisanothercentraloutcomeinthe Evidence-2.1.pdf). Particular attention was given to short management of CD, especially in children, but usually andlongtermoutcomedataforefficacyandsafety. quality of life (QoL) increases as the inflammatory disease All members interacted during two face-to-face meet- is under control. Linear growth impairment is a unique ings, by iterative e-mails in the form of a modified Delphi feature of pre-pubertal pediatric patients with
