JournalofCrohn'sandColitis(2014)8,1179–1207
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, crohn, children, therapy, crohn disease, treatment, remission, etal, pediatric, sdisease, bowel, ifx, infliximab, risk


NNT=4), when compared to placebo.263 However, the absolute effect size is modest, 1. Ifproveneffective,immunosupressantsandanti-TNFagents averaging8–13%at1yearforclinicalrecurrenceand15%for should generally be continued for a prolonged period of endoscopicrecurrence.264 time,atleastforseveralyears. The role of 5-ASA for maintenance of surgically-induced 2. Drug discontinuation may be considered in some patients remission in adult CD was analyzed in a recent Cochrane who are in complete sustained steroid-free remission for reviewof9RCT'swithinconsistentresults.265Althoughthere severalyearsafteranindividualbenefit-riskdiscussionwith was a slight advantage to use 5-ASA as relapse prevention thefamily,butnotbeforegrowthandpubertyiscompleted. (basedonthemeta-analysisof7studies)(OR0.68;95%CI0.52 Theriskofrecurrenceislowerinthosewithoutevidenceof to0.90) the number needed totreat toavoid 1 relapse was mucosal inflammation. Therefore, before stepping down, highwith16to19patients.Giventhelackofpediatricdata completemucosalhealingshouldbeverifiedbyendoscopic recommendtheroutineuseof5-ASAasmaintenancetherapy. py. Ensuring normal hemoglobin, WBC, CRP and ESR is Treatment with IFX vs. placebo for one year was investi- mandatorybutnotenoughforassessingtherisk. gatedinoneRCTofadultsfollowingileocolonicresectionfor 3. Steppingdownfrom combinationtherapyofanti-TNFwith CD:therateofrecurrenceintheIFXgroupwas9.1%compared thiopurinesorMTXtoanti-TNFmonotherapyisrecommend- with 84.6% with patients receiving placebo, P=0.0006,266 edfollowing6monthsoftherapy,afterensuringcomplete indicatingaclearadvantageofIFXuse. remissionwithmucosalhealing. Downloaded from by guest on May ConsensusGuidelinesofECCO/ESPGHAN 1197 4. Stepping down from anti-TNF, if chosen, should be to InalandmarkRCTof80CDadultpatients,VanAsscheet thiopurines or MTX. Stopping all treatments is usually not al.202 showed that maintaining azathioprine after 6months advisable in children except for a small minority of of combination therapy with IFX did not provide clinical patientswithverymildandlimiteddiseasewhoentered benefit after a 2-year follow-up (mucosal healing rate at deep remission for a long period of time after careful 2year 64% with combo therapy vs. 61% with monotherapy, discussionwiththefamilyontheriskofrelapseandother and similar rate of the need to change dose or stop IFX). A complications. retrospective study confirmed that, with or without AZA withdrawal,abouthalfofCDpatientsrequiredIFXcessation Treatmentde-escalationmaybeconsideredinpatientswith or optimization after two years.279 This is in line with the longstandingremissioninordertoreducecostandsideeffects. notion that antibodies to IFX develop during the first few The latter is especially important in children and adolescents monthsofIFXtreatmentandthoseinsustainedremission since they have many potential future treatment years. Data with IFX will likely stay that way. No study explored arelimitedtobaserecommendationsondrugcessationbutasa MTX discontinuation after MTX/anti-TNF combination generalrulereflectedconsistentlyfromdifferentadultstudies, therapy. the presence of biological inflammation is associated with a In the pivotal prospective STORI study, 44% adult CD higherriskof1–2yearrelapseafterdrugcessation.271 patientswhoweretreatedforatleast1yearwithIFXandan In a retrospective study of 120 CD patients who were immunomodulator experienced a relapse within one year in steroid-free remission on 6MP for at least 6months, 36 after discontinuation of IFX while continuing the immunosup- stopped treatment.272 The cumulative probabilities of relapse pressivedrug.280Riskfactorsforrelapseincludedmalesex,the forthosecontinuingtreatmentat1,2,3,and5yearswere29%, absence of surgical resection, leukocyte counts N6.0·109/L, 45%, 55%, and 61%, respectively, as compared with 36%, 71%, and levels of hemoglobin b145 g/L, C-reactive protein 85%,and85%,forthosestoppingtreatment,respectively.The N5 mg/L, and fecal calprotectin N300μg/g. Mucosal healing median length of remission was considerably
