Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


ABSTRACT Gestational Diabetes (GDM) is characterized by glucose intolerance first manifesting during pregnancy and is an important risk factor for abnormal birthweight including large-for-gestational age birth, birth injury, and neonatal metabolic alterations--particularly when persistent maternal hyperglycemia exists. Individuals with GDM face short-term pregnancy complications, such as cesarean section and hypertensive disorders, and long-term complications, including an increased lifetime risk for type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Many of these complications associated with GDM can be moderated with lifestyle changes and pharmacotherapeutic interventions to reduce maternal hyperglycemia and thereby improve maternal and neonatal health. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . PREVALENCE AND PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Gestational diabetes (GDM) is a major problem in the US with a rapidly rising prevalence ranging from 6 to 20% of pregnancies across the world ( 1 – 4 ). The prevalence is highest in racial and ethnic groups that have a higher incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM): Hispanic, Black, American Indian, and Asian or Pacific Islander individuals ( 1 ). In the US, the prevalence of GDM was 7.8 per 100 births in 2020 with a higher annual percent change from 5% annually from 2016-2019 to 13% in 2020 ( 5 ). There are significant differences in the rate of GDM also by rural/urban status, age, body mass index (BMI), and state of residence ( 5 , 6 ). Insulin resistance is paired with increased insulin secretion during pregnancy; however, among individuals with GDM, inadequate β-cell compensation relative to the level of insulin resistance results in failure to maintain euglycemia ( 7 ). GDM is caused by carbohydrate intolerance due to abnormalities in at least 3 aspects of fuel metabolism: insulin resistance, impaired insulin secretion, and increased hepatic glucose production ( 8 , 9 ). Although insulin resistance is a universal finding in pregnancies with GDM, the cellular mechanisms for insulin resistance are multifactorial. Insulin binding to its receptor is unchanged in pregnant individuals ( 10 ). Pregnancy reduces the capacity for insulin-stimulated glucose transport independent of obesity, due in part to a tissue-specific decrease in insulin receptor phosphorylation and decreased expression of Insulin Receptor Substrate-1 (IRS-1), a major docking protein in skeletal muscle ( 11 ). In addition to these mechanisms, in muscle specimens from individuals with GDM, IRS-1 is further decreased and there are reciprocal and inverse changes in the degree of
