Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


( 11 ). In addition to these mechanisms, in muscle specimens from individuals with GDM, IRS-1 is further decreased and there are reciprocal and inverse changes in the degree of serine and tyrosine phosphorylation of the insulin receptor (IR) and IRS-1, further inhibiting insulin signaling ( 12 ). Individuals with GDM also have higher circulating free fatty acids (FFA) and reduced peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) expression in adipose tissue, a target for thiazolidinediones ( 13 ). There is evidence for a decrease in the number of glucose transporters (GLUT-4) in adipocytes in individuals with GDM and an abnormal translocation of these transporters that results in the reduced ability of insulin to recruit them to the cell surface, which contributes to the overall insulin resistance with GDM ( 14 ). In individuals with GDM, serum adiponectin levels decrease and leptin, IL-6, and TNFα increase ( 15 ). Although dysglycemia usually remits after pregnancy, individuals with a history of GDM have a nearly 10-fold higher risk of progressing to type 2 diabetes than those without GDM and up to 70% of individuals diagnosed with GDM will develop T2DM later in life ( 16 – 18 ). Both GDM and T2DM are further exacerbated by increasing obesity and age. Thus, pregnancy is a “stress test” for the eventual development of glucose intolerance outside of pregnancy, and GDM may represent an unmasking of the predisposition of T2DM induced by the hormonal changes of pregnancy ( 19 , 20 ). DATA TO SUPPORT THE SCREENING, DIAGNOSIS, AND TREATMENT OF GESTATIONAL DIABETES As early as the 1940s, glucose intolerance and GDM distinct from pregestational DM were recognized to have adverse maternal and perinatal outcomes ( 21 ). Over the course of the following eight decades, candidates for screening or testing as well as the diagnostic criteria of GDM were debated ( 22 , 23 ). Early on, value was placed on recognition of GDM to identify individuals at risk for T2DM ( 24 ). More recently, robust studies have demonstrated the more immediate obstetric and perinatal benefits of screening, diagnosing, and treating GDM ( 1 , 24 , 25 ). The first was a landmark trial conducted in Austria and New Zealand referred to as the ACHOIS trial (Australian Carbohydrate Intolerance Study in Pregnant Women), which demonstrated reduced serious perinatal outcomes with intervention/treatment of GDM versus no intervention (1% versus 4%) ( 24 ). This RCT
