Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


ACHOIS trial (Australian Carbohydrate Intolerance Study in Pregnant Women), which demonstrated reduced serious perinatal outcomes with intervention/treatment of GDM versus no intervention (1% versus 4%) ( 24 ). This RCT enrolled 1000 pregnant individuals with either ≥1 risk factor for GDM or positive 1-hour 50 gm glucose challenge test (GCT) (≥140mg/dL) after completion of a blinded 75 gm glucose tolerance test (GTT) at 24-34 weeks gestation and demonstrated no severe glucose impairment. Individuals were randomized to receive dietary advice, self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG), and insulin therapy as needed to achieve fasting glucose <99 mg/dL and 2-hour postprandial values <126 mg/dL versus routine care. The primary outcome of fetal or neonatal death, shoulder dystocia, bone fracture, and nerve palsy were reduced in the intervention group compared with routine care (1% versus 4%). Although the induction of labor rate was higher in the intervention group, the cesarean delivery rate was not different. A second landmark randomized controlled trial (RCT), the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development Maternal- Fetal Medicine Units Network study (NICHD MFMU Network), demonstrated significant differences in meaningful secondary outcomes (mean birthweight, neonatal fat mass, large for gestational age infants, birthweight >4000 g, shoulder dystocia, cesarean delivery, and hypertensive disorders of pregnancy) by treating mild GDM ( 25 ). A total of 958 pregnant individuals who met criteria for mild GDM between 24-31 weeks were randomly assigned to usual prenatal care (control) or dietary interventions, SMBG, and insulin therapy if necessary (treatment group). Although there was no significant difference in groups in the frequency of the composite outcome and no perinatal deaths in this population with very mild GDM, there were significant reductions with treatment in several pre-specified secondary outcomes. Furthermore, treatment of mild GDM was also associated with reduced rates for hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. There is also compelling data that the risk of adverse maternal and fetal outcomes from maternal carbohydrate intolerance is along a graded continuum ( 26 , 27 ). The Hyperglycemia and Adverse Outcomes (HAPO) trial enrolled 25,505 pregnant individuals at 15 centers in nine countries, with participants completing a 2-hour 75 gm GTT at 24-32 weeks’ gestation ( 27 ). Data remained blinded if the fasting glucose ≤105 mg/dL and the 2-hour plasma glucose was ≤200 mg/dL. This trial demonstrated that a fasting blood glucose (FBG) ≥92 mg/dl, a 1-hour value ≥180 mg/dl, or a 2-hour value of ≥153 mg/dl increased
