Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


2-hour plasma glucose was ≤200 mg/dL. This trial demonstrated that a fasting blood glucose (FBG) ≥92 mg/dl, a 1-hour value ≥180 mg/dl, or a 2-hour value of ≥153 mg/dl increased the risk by 1.75-fold for large for gestational age (LGA or more than 90 th percentile for weight of all babies of the same gestational age) and an elevated cord-blood C-peptide consistent with fetal hyperinsulinemia. Furthermore, the fasting glucose was more strongly predictive of these outcomes than the 1-hour or 2-hour value stressing the importance of fasting glucose levels in predicting poor perinatal outcomes. The results also indicated a strong and continuous association with these outcomes and maternal glucose levels below those considered diagnostic of GDM. DIAGNOSIS OF GESTATIONAL DIABETES The implications of diabetes recognized for the first time in pregnancy on both maternal and perinatal outcomes have been known for nearly a century ( 21 , 28 ). Nevertheless, substantial controversy persists when considering which individuals warrant screening or outright diagnostic testing, at which gestational age this should occur, and the laboratory cutoffs which should confirm the diagnosis and prompt possible intervention. Evaluation for what we currently define as GDM, for “early GDM” or for T2DM first diagnosed in pregnancy may take place in a risk-based or universal manner. In general, the basic tenants of screening as defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) are met: GDM and DM are significant health problems with significant consequences if left untreated, a suitable test exists, with benefits of screening outweighing the risks ( 29 ). The lack of consensus generally results from concerns about cost-effectiveness of differing strategies and psychological and public health burdens with increased prevalence of the condition. Unfortunately, the historical definition of GDM as a glucose-intolerant state with onset or first recognition during pregnancy allows for inclusion of both unrecognized, pregestational, overt diabetes in addition to “true” gestational diabetes resulting from the physiologic and hormonal changes of pregnancy. Since individuals with undiagnosed pregestational diabetes are at increased risk for both maternal and fetal complications, including major malformations if their hemoglobin A1c is ≥ 6.5% in the first trimester, the International Association of the Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups (IADPSG) recommends that GDM be only diagnosed if the glucose intolerance was identified in pregnancy and the pregnant individual did not qualify for pre-existing (overt) diabetes ( 30 ). The details and nuanced considerations of the current understanding of GDM
