Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


intolerance was identified in pregnancy and the pregnant individual did not qualify for pre-existing (overt) diabetes ( 30 ). The details and nuanced considerations of the current understanding of GDM as well as screening and testing modalities are described in the literature ( 31 – 33 ). In the US, the US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) recommend universal screening for all pregnant individuals at 24-28 weeks gestation since prior use of historic factors alone failed to identify 50% of patients with GDM ( 1 ). ACOG further supports a two-step process involving a 50 gm,1-hour glucose challenge test (GCT) followed by a 100 gm, 3-hour oral glucose tolerance test (GTT) ( 1 ). The diagnosis of GDM is made if two or more abnormal values are seen in the 3-hour GTT. Although elevation of just one out of four values in the 3-hour GTT is still associated with adverse outcomes, there is not clear evidence that this subset of patients would benefit from treatment ( 1 , 34 ). The one-step International Association of the Diabetes and Pregnancy Study (IADPSG) approach is utilized more frequently internationally and is supported by organizations such as National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) in UK and Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (RANZOG) ( 35 , 36 ). The American Diabetes Association (ADA) continues to recognize that there is no clear evidence which supports IADPSG versus traditional ACOG two-step screening approach ( 37 ). Table 1. Gestational Diabetes. Screening and Diagnostic Criteria, performed at 24-28 weeks’ gestation for individuals without evidence of pregestational diabetes α View in own window One-step approach Perform a 75 gm GTT, with plasma glucose measurement when patient is fasting, at 1 and 2 hours. Test should occur in the morning following ≥8 hour fast Diagnosis of GDM is made with ≥1 of the following: Fasting ≥92mg/dL 1 hour ≥180mg/dL 2 hour ≥153mg/dL Benefits: Single diagnostic test Disadvantages: Must be fasting, increased prevalence of GDM without clear perinatal or long-term differences in outcomes compared to two-step approach, increased healthcare costs Supported by: IADPSG, ADA, NICE, RANZOG Two-step approach Perform a non-fasting 50 gm GCT, with plasma glucose measurement at 1 hour If glucose level measured 1 hour after the load is ≥130, 135, or 140 mg/dL β , proceed to a 100 gm GTT.
