Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


level glucose ≥162 mg/dl) for the diagnosis of gestational diabetes by the Gestational Diabetes Mellitus Trial of Diagnostic Detection Thresholds ( GEMS) trial group did not increase the risk for LGA infant ( 43 ). Currently there is no consensus about the adoption of the IADPSG criteria over the ACOG criteria. The NIH held a Consensus Conference in March of 2013 ( 44 ). They acknowledged that the HAPO study was the first to demonstrate that glycemic thresholds currently lower than the ACOG diagnostic criteria thresholds correlated with LGA and adopting the 75 gm GTT would be beneficial in standardizing diagnostic criteria internationally. However, they concluded that there were insufficient data from RCTs demonstrating that adopting the lower glucose thresholds would significantly benefit the much larger population of women who make the diagnostic criteria for GDM based on the IADPSG criteria and such adoption could markedly increase cost of treatment. Further, there was a concern that adopting the IADPSG criteria could triple the prevalence of GDM, potentially outstripping the resources to treat it. Recent clinical trials comparing screening strategies confirm that the one-step approach has been associated with an upwards of threefold increase in the prevalence of GDM compared to the two-step approach, but there is no clear evidence that the increased diagnosis is associated with improved maternal or perinatal outcomes ( 37 , 39 , 45 , 46 ). At the consensus conference, it was also argued that it is not clear how much the increased risk of LGA at lower glucose thresholds observed in the HAPO trial on which it was based was due to maternal obesity or mild hyperglycemia. A retrospective review of nearly 10,000 individuals who were diagnosed with GDM using the IADPSG criteria showed an overall GDM prevalence of 24%. After excluding individuals who required treatment for GDM, 75% of GDM individuals were overweight or obese. Although GDM nearly doubled the risk of LGA over obesity alone (22.3% versus 12.7% respectively), in individuals without GDM, 21.6% of LGA was attributable to being overweight and obese. The combination of GDM in addition to being overweight or obese did not add much to the attributable risk for LGA and accounted for 23.3% of LGA infants ( 47 ). The threshold levels for the 3-hour GTT have been debated. The initial diagnostic thresholds for the 3-hour GTT were initially established by O’Sullivan and Mahan ( 48 ). National
