Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


). The threshold levels for the 3-hour GTT have been debated. The initial diagnostic thresholds for the 3-hour GTT were initially established by O’Sullivan and Mahan ( 48 ). National Diabetes Data Group and Carpenter and Coustan criteria have subsequently been developed since with Carpenter and Coustan criteria suggesting more stringent thresholds ( 49 , 50 ). Further retrospective investigations have shown that the lower Carpenter and Coustan criteria may diagnose more patients that could benefit from treatment of GDM ( 51 – 53 ). Therefore, ACOG and ADA recommend the Carpenter and Coustan criteria ( 37 , 54 ). Recently, Hillier et al published the results of their pragmatic, randomized trial comparing one-step screening with two-step screening in which nearly 24,000 individuals were randomized ( 45 ). The diagnosis of GDM was roughly doubled using the one-step approach versus the two-step approach, at rates of 16.5% and 8.5% respectively (unadjusted relative risk, 1.94; 97.5% confidence interval [CI], 1.79 to 2.11) ( 40 ). Importantly, there were no significant differences between diagnostic approaches with the primary outcomes (LGA infants, perinatal composite, gestational hypertension or preeclampsia, and primary cesarean delivery). Potential limitations include a sample size underpowered to detect differences in the groups, treatment of individuals with a single elevated GTT value, and suboptimal adherence to protocols ( 38 ). A meta-analysis comparing one-step and two-step screening methods showed a twofold risk of the diagnosis of GDM with the one-step approach without a difference in the risk of LGA infants ( 39 ). Screening Prior to 24 Weeks Gestation- Who, Why, and How? Several factors have contributed to newer recommendations to consider early screening for diabetes: the rising incidence of T2DM because of the obesity epidemic, in addition to a better understanding of the risks associated with hyperglycemia early in pregnancy, such as congenital anomalies and miscarriage ( 55 ). In an obstetric setting, the best time to screen for and diagnose T2DM is as early as possible in the pregnancy, ideally in the first trimester before the placental effects causing insulin resistance have begun. There is not a recognized lower gestational age cutoff at which insulin resistance can be attributed to placental effects, though this likely occurs prior to the GDM screening range of 24-28 weeks. There is conflicting evidence that screening for GDM prior to 24 weeks gestational age is beneficial. A RCT of 962 individuals examining early screening
