Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


5-30 years ( 1 , 16 – 18 , 63 , 64 ). Individuals with fasting hyperglycemia, obesity, those belonging to a racial/ethnic group with a high prevalence of T2DM (in particular those who self-identify as Asian and Pacific Islander and Hispanic), or who demonstrate impaired glucose tolerance or fasting glucose at 6 weeks postpartum, have the highest risk of developing T2DM ( 1 , 3 , 63 ). Counseling about diet, weight loss, and exercise is essential and is likely to improve insulin sensitivity. Thiazolidinediones, metformin, and lifestyle modifications have all been demonstrated to decrease the risk of developing T2DM in GDM women who have impaired fasting glucose or glucose intolerance postpartum ( 65 – 67 ). The potential risks to the infant from GDM are similar to those in pregnancies complicated by T1DM or T2DM with suboptimal control in the second half of pregnancy (stillbirth, macrosomia, shoulder dystocia, premature delivery, neonatal hypoglycemia, hyperbilirubinemia, and NICU admission). Notably congenital malformations and miscarriage risks would not be observed with later-onset insulin resistance with GDM ( 1 , 62 , 68 , 69 ). Like pregestational DM, the degree of hyperglycemia correlates with perinatal risk. Among diet-controlled GDM pregnancies the risk of stillbirth is not increased compared to the general population ( 70 ). The developmental origin of health and disease suggests that there can be an association with maternal health on the future health of the child ( 71 , 72 ). In addition to immediate postnatal risks, infants of individuals with GDM are themselves at increased risk for childhood and adult-onset obesity and diabetes ( 73 ). MEDICAL NUTRITION MANAGEMENT AND EXERCISE Individuals with GDM should be taught home glucose monitoring to ensure that their glycemic goals are being met throughout the duration of pregnancy. The same goals are utilized in GDM pregnancies as in pregestational DM: a fasting glucose <95mg/dL, 1-hour postprandial <140mg/dL and 2-hour postprandial <120mg/dL ( 1 , 37 ). The best therapy for GDM depends on the severity of the glucose intolerance, the individual’s response to non-pharmacologic or pharmacologic treatment, as well as effects on fetal growth. Diet and exercise alone will maintain the fasting and postprandial blood glucose values within the target range in at least 50% of individual with GDM. A 2018 meta-analysis evaluating diet modifications illustrated improvements in fasting and postprandial glucose values and lower need for medical treatment when compared with
