Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


at least 50% of individual with GDM. A 2018 meta-analysis evaluating diet modifications illustrated improvements in fasting and postprandial glucose values and lower need for medical treatment when compared with controls ( 74 ). Furthermore, diet modifications were also associated with lower infant birth weight and less macrosomia ( 74 ). Nevertheless, data are limited regarding the optimal GDM diet to achieve euglycemia and avoid perinatal complications of GDM. The current recommended diet for GDM includes consumption of at least 175 gm of carbohydrate, with complex carbohydrates favored over simple carbohydrates, a minimum of 71 gm of protein, and 28 gm of fiber to provide adequate macronutrients and avoid ketosis ( 75 ). There is little evidence to support one dietary approach over another, but common practice is three meals and 2-3 snacks daily to distribute carbohydrate intake and reduce postprandial hyperglycemia. The caloric intake and weight gain recommendations are also consistent with what is recommended in individuals with obesity or T2DM. We recommend multidisciplinary care with a dietician or nurse educator familiar with GDM to individualize a dietary plan. In 2009, the Institute of Medicine (name changed to National Academy of Medicine in 2015), published recommended gestational weight gain (GWG) based on pre-pregnancy BMI, with less GWG recommended for overweight and obese individuals compared to those with normal BMI ( 76 ). Nevertheless, follow up studies demonstrated a large proportion of pregnant individuals worldwide had GWG above (27.8%) and below (39.4%) the IOM guidelines, with highest mean GWG and pre-pregnancy BMI observed in North America ( 77 ). Furthermore, a variety of adverse outcomes have been observed in the setting of excess GWG, including LGA and macrosomic infants in the GDM population ( 78 – 80 ). As a result, the question has been raised whether weight gain less than the IOM guidelines in GDM pregnancies could improve outcomes. There are studies suggesting that weight gain less than IOM recommendations for overweight GDM women may decrease insulin requirements, cesarean delivery, and improve pregnancy outcomes without appreciably increasing small for gestational age (SGA) ( 81 – 83 ). Further, a third study suggesting that slight weight loss (mean of 1.4 kg) in overweight GDM women decreased birth weight without increasing SGA ( 84 ). Larger meta-analyses confirmed these findings but failed to identify an ideal weight gain range for optimal outcomes ( 85 ). These findings have yet to be
