Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


SGA ( 84 ). Larger meta-analyses confirmed these findings but failed to identify an ideal weight gain range for optimal outcomes ( 85 ). These findings have yet to be included in GWG guidelines specific to pregnant individuals living with diabetes. Since postprandial glucose levels have been strongly associated with the risk of macrosomia it has been suggested that carbohydrate restriction to ~33-40% of total calories may be helpful to blunt the postprandial glucose excursions, in addition to preventing excessive weight gain ( 86 ). However, the actual dietary composition that optimizes perinatal outcomes is unknown. There is also growing concern that individuals are substituting fat for carbohydrates which has been associated with adverse fetal programming including oxidative stress as well as an insulin resistant phenotype ( 87 , 88 ). Although a low carbohydrate, higher fat diet has been conventionally recommended to minimize postprandial hyperglycemia, a review of the few randomized controlled trials examining nutritional management in 250 GDM individuals suggested that a diet higher in complex carbohydrate and fiber, low in simple sugar and lower in saturated fat may be effective in blunting postprandial hyperglycemia, preventing worsened insulin resistance, and excess fetal growth ( 89 ). A more recent trial challenged the traditional low-carb/higher-fat diet and demonstrated that a diet with higher complex carbohydrates and lower-fat reduced fasting blood glucose and infant adiposity ( 90 ). Given these trials, a diet of complex carbohydrates is recommended over simple carbohydrates primarily due to slower digestion time which prevents rapid increases in blood glucose. The role of exercise in GDM may be even more important than in individuals with preexisting diabetes given exercise in some individuals may lessen the need for medical therapy. This idea is similar to the evidence in non-pregnant individuals with diabetes which supports weight training due to increases in lean muscle and increased tissue sensitivity to insulin. A 2013 review showed that in individuals with GDM, five of seven (~70%) activity-based interventions showed improvement in glycemic control or limiting insulin use ( 91 ). In most successful studies (3 times/week), insulin needs decrease by 2-3-fold, and overweight or obese women benefited the most with a longer delay from diagnosis to initiation of insulin therapy. Moderate exercise is well tolerated and has been shown in several trials in individuals with GDM to lower maternal glucose levels ( 92 – 94 ). Using exercise after a meal in
