Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


is well tolerated and has been shown in several trials in individuals with GDM to lower maternal glucose levels ( 92 – 94 ). Using exercise after a meal in the form of a brisk walk may blunt the postprandial glucose excursions sufficiently in some individuals that medical therapy might be avoided. Establishing a regular routine of modest exercise during pregnancy, per ACOG of 30 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity at least 5 days/week, may also have long lasting benefits for the individual with GDM who clearly has an appreciable risk of developing T2DM in the future ( 1 ). MEDICAL TREATMENT OPTIONS Once the diagnosis of gestational diabetes is confirmed and glycemic control exceeds target ranges despite dietary education and lifestyle changes, pharmacotherapy must be considered. Prior to the 21st century, insulin was the sole medical option for GDM. After the introduction of oral agents such as glyburide and metformin, initiation of these agents increased, with addition or transition to insulin therapy if glycemic control remained suboptimal. In 2018, ACOG joined the ADA in endorsing insulin as first-line therapy and this was reaffirmed in the 2024 ADA Standards of Care. In contrast, the Society of Maternal-Fetal Medicine (SMFM) released a statement recommending metformin as a reasonable first-choice therapy in addition to insulin ( 1 , 75 , 95 ). The optimal use of oral agents for the management of GDM is an area of ongoing investigation ( 96 , 97 ). Although there are few data from randomized controlled trials to determine the optimal therapeutic glycemic targets, the standard of care is that individuals who have fasting blood glucose levels >95 mg/dl, 1-hour postprandial glucose levels >140 mg/dl or 2-hour postprandial glucose levels >120 mg/dl be started on medical therapy. In 5 randomized trials it was demonstrated that if insulin therapy is started in individuals with GDM whose maternal glucose values are at target levels on diet alone but whose fetuses demonstrate excessive growth by an increased abdominal circumference (AC) relative to the biparietal diameter (BPD) i.e. body to head disproportion, the rate of fetal macrosomia can be decreased ( 81 ). This fetal based strategy using ultrasound at 29-33 weeks to measure the AC in order dictate the aggressiveness of maternal glycemic control has been recommended by the Fifth International Workshop-Conference on Gestational Diabetes and the IADPSG ( 30 , 98 , 99 ). Evidence also suggests that
