Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


aggressiveness of maternal glycemic control has been recommended by the Fifth International Workshop-Conference on Gestational Diabetes and the IADPSG ( 30 , 98 , 99 ). Evidence also suggests that higher glycemic targets may have similar outcomes to lower glycemic targets ( 100 ). The threshold to initiate pharmacologic therapy by maternal fetal medicine specialists can differ, but most providers recommend initiation of pharmacologic therapy if 30-50% of blood glucose values are elevated ( 101 ). Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) has also been proposed as an adjunct to traditional glucose monitoring. CGM use has proven beneficial in type 1 diabetes in pregnancy, and its use is recommended by ADA and ACOG ( 75 , 102 , 103 ). However, there is no clear evidence of its benefit in the setting of GDM. One meta-analysis including 6 trials of 482 individuals with GDM showed that CGM use may achieve lower average blood glucose levels, lower maternal weight gain and infant birth weight, but the studies were limited by overall small sample sizes ( 104 ). The specific metrics of CGM data, including pregnancy-specific time-in-range, has not been clearly established and further research should be done before widespread implementation of CGM in GDM. GDM can often be treated with twice daily injections of intermediate or long-acting insulin (i.e., NPH, glargine, detemir) and mealtime injections of lispro or aspart as necessary for postprandial hyperglycemia. Short acting insulin (i.e., lispro or aspart) is preferred over regular insulin due to time of onset and duration to better control postprandial glycemic excursions. See Endotext chapter “Pregestational Diabetes” for details regarding antepartum, intrapartum, and postpartum insulin dosing regimens ( 105 ). Metformin One of the largest experiences with metformin in the setting of GDM was with metformin initiated later in pregnancy ( 106 ). In this randomized, controlled Metformin in Gestation (MIG) trial, 751 individuals with GDM were randomized to metformin versus insulin. Individuals that did not get adequate glycemic control on metformin received insulin. There was no difference in both groups concerning the primary composite outcome (neonatal hypoglycemia, respiratory distress, need for phototherapy, birth trauma, 5- minute APGAR <7), or premature birth. As such, metformin did not appear to increase any adverse outcomes, although it was associated with a slight increase in preterm birth; however, this did not appear to be clinically relevant. Importantly, 46% of the individuals in the metformin group required supplemental insulin to
