Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


associated with a slight increase in preterm birth; however, this did not appear to be clinically relevant. Importantly, 46% of the individuals in the metformin group required supplemental insulin to achieve adequate glycemic control. This study demonstrated interesting metformin benefits including reduced maternal weight gain, improved patient satisfaction, and reduced incidence of gestational hypertension. In a smaller RCT, Ijas et al demonstrated metformin had a 32% rate of requiring supplemental insulin ( 107 ). They also noted individuals needing supplemental insulin added to metformin were more likely to be obese, have higher fasting blood glucose levels, and initiated pharmacotherapy earlier. Spaulonci et al randomized 47 individuals with GDM to metformin or insulin and demonstrated significant metformin benefits including: less gestational weight gain, lower mean glucose levels, and lower rates of neonatal hypoglycemia ( 108 ). Overall, meta-analyses have demonstrated largely reassuring outcomes for metformin compared to insulin and glyburide ( 109 – 112 ). Early initiation of metformin after diagnosis of GDM did not show benefit in fasting BGs over standard of care ( 113 ). Metformin should be avoided in individuals with renal insufficiency. It is typically prescribed in divided doses starting with 500 mg once or twice daily for 1 week and then increasing to a maximum dose of 2500 mg daily in divided doses with meals. Common side effects include gastrointestinal complaints (occurring in 2.5-45.7% of pregnant individuals in studies) ( 109 ). These randomized trials have shown short-term efficacy and safety of metformin use in pregnancy for GDM treatment. Until recently, long-term safety data of in-utero metformin exposure has been lacking, though several studies have been published commenting on infant and childhood weight, BMI, cardiovascular health, and neurodevelopmental outcomes. The earliest follow-up studies in metformin-exposed infants suggested they had larger measures of subcutaneous fat when compared to those exposed to insulin ( 110 ). Another study in PCOS women comparing metformin to placebo showed that although women randomized to metformin gained less weight during pregnancy, at 1 year postpartum the women who used metformin in pregnancy lost less weight and their infants were heavier than those in the placebo group ( 112 ). These fetal and neonatal results are likely because metformin is concentrated in the fetal compartment with umbilical artery and vein levels being up to twice those seen in the maternal serum ( 114 , 115 ). Hypothetically if metformin increases insulin sensitivity in
