Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


fetal compartment with umbilical artery and vein levels being up to twice those seen in the maternal serum ( 114 , 115 ). Hypothetically if metformin increases insulin sensitivity in the fetus, it might be possible for excess nutrient flux across the placenta to result in increased fetal adipogenesis. More recent studies also identified slight increased weight in metformin-exposed infants, a relationship that may no longer be present after 4 years of age ( 116 , 117 ). Long-term follow up of BMI is conflicting ( 112 , 117 ). A very large study in New Zealand evaluated outcomes at 4 years of age in nearly 4000 individuals, with no differences in growth and development assessments compared to insulin-exposed children ( 118 ). The metabolic and weight differences warrant further investigation since similar patterns of low birth weight followed by accelerated growth are associated with adverse long-term outcomes ( 119 ). At least one study has failed to demonstrate such a relationship in this population ( 120 ). A study of 211 individuals with GDM randomized to insulin versus metformin during pregnancy found similar developmental outcomes by 2 years of age ( 111 ). In review, the ADA and ACOG note that insulin is the first-line agent for treatment of GDM if lifestyle changes have not achieved glycemic targets ( 1 , 75 ). The ADA notes that although individual RCTs have shown short-term benefits and safety of metformin and glyburide, long- term safety data are lacking ( 75 ). Both organizations acknowledge that 20-45% of women fail metformin monotherapy necessitating that insulin be added ( 1 ). Counseling is necessary to explain to women that although current data do not demonstrate any adverse short-term outcomes, there are concerns about placental transfer of metformin, potential increased preterm birth, and lack of data on long term outcomes of fetuses exposed to metformin in-utero, metformin’s effect on fetal insulin sensitivity, hepatic gluconeogenesis, and the long-term fetal programming implications are unknown. SMFM suggests that metformin is a reasonable and safe alternate first line pharmacologic treatment ( 95 ). The UK NICE guidelines also suggest that metformin as a first-line medication for patients with GDM who require pharmacologic therapy ( 121 ). Glyburide and Other Agents Glyburide is the only sulfonylurea that has been studied in a large, randomized trial in individuals with GDM. It was approved by the 5th International Workshop and IADPSG
