Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


Other Agents Glyburide is the only sulfonylurea that has been studied in a large, randomized trial in individuals with GDM. It was approved by the 5th International Workshop and IADPSG as a possible alternative to insulin in individuals with GDM due to several RCTs ( 122 ). The dose ranges from 2.5-20 mg daily in divided doses. Glyburide exposure in most RCTs is limited to the second and third trimesters, so the effect on embryogenesis was not studied, but there are no convincing reports that it is a teratogen. Due to its peak at 3-4 hours, many individuals have inadequate control of their 1- or 2-hour postprandial glucoses and then become hypoglycemic 3-4 hours later and data suggest that serum concentrations with usual doses are lower in pregnant individuals. If used, it should be given 30 mins-1-hour before breakfast and dinner and should not be given before bedtime due to the risk of nocturnal or early morning hypoglycemia considering its 3–4-hour peak (similar to regular insulin). For individuals unwilling to administer multiple daily insulin injections who have postprandial glucoses well controlled by glyburide but have fasting hyperglycemia, adding intermediate or long-acting insulin before bedtime to the glyburide can sometimes be useful. If both postprandial and fasting glucoses remain elevated, the individual should be switched to insulin. The earliest RCTs offered glyburide as a safe alternative to insulin, without significant differences in perinatal outcomes ( 123 ). In the last 20 years, growing evidence has suggested there is increased risk of both maternal and neonatal hypoglycemia with glyburide use ( 109 , 124 – 127 ). In some trials, maternal glycemic control, macrosomia, neonatal hypoglycemia, and neonatal outcomes were not different between groups although in others, there was a significantly greater rate of macrosomic infants in the glyburide group (( 123 , 128 , 129 )). In a meta-analysis examining metformin versus insulin versus glibenclamide (glyburide) treatment for individuals with GDM, there were higher rates of macrosomia (risk ratio 2.62) and neonatal hypoglycemia (risk ratio 2.04) among those treated with glibenclamide compared with insulin ( 109 ). This is the same publication reviewed above that showed the increased risk of preterm birth in individuals treated with metformin compared with insulin. This meta-analysis in addition to a second meta-analysis showed significantly worse neonatal outcomes among offspring of individuals with GDM treated with glyburide compared to insulin ( 109 , 128 ). There
