Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


meta-analysis in addition to a second meta-analysis showed significantly worse neonatal outcomes among offspring of individuals with GDM treated with glyburide compared to insulin ( 109 , 128 ). There were higher rates of neonatal hypoglycemia, respiratory distress syndrome, macrosomia, and birth injury without significant differences in glycemic control ( 124 , 128 ). A RCT compared the efficacy of metformin with glyburide for glycemic control in GDM ( 124 ). In the individuals who achieved adequate glycemic control, the mean glucose levels were not statistically different between the two groups. However, 26 individuals in the metformin group (34.7%) and 12 individuals in the glyburide group (16.2%) did not achieve adequate glycemic control and required insulin therapy (p=0.01). Thus, in this study, the need for insulin supplementation with metformin was twice as high as the failure rate of glyburide when used in the management of GDM ( 124 ). These findings are consistent with the general finding that approximately, 15% of individuals will fail maximum dose glyburide therapy and need supplemental insulin, especially if dietary restriction is not carefully followed. Although it was initially thought not to appreciably cross the placenta or significantly affect fetal insulin levels, examination using HPLC mass spectrometry suggested a modest amount of glyburide does cross ( 114 ). There is not sufficient information available on thiazolidinediones, meglitinides, dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP-4) inhibitors, glucagon like peptide 1 (GLP-1) agonists, sodium-glucose transport protein 2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors, and such agents should only be used in the setting of approved clinical trials as their teratogenic potential is unknown. Acarbose was studied in two very small studies in individuals with GDM and given its minimal GI absorption is likely to be safe, but GI side effects are often prohibitive ( 130 ). Safety studies of GLP-1 agonists and SGLT2 inhibitors have shown potential teratogenicity and adverse pregnancy outcomes mostly derived from animal studies ( 131 ). Limited observational studies in humans have not shown significant adverse outcomes with periconceptional use of GLP-1 agonists ( 132 , 133 ). The effect of use in later pregnancy and for gestational diabetes is unknown. Additional information about the use of these medications outside of pregnancy can be found in the chapter entitled “Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes” in the Diabetes Mellitus and Carbohydrate Metabolism section of Endotext ( 134 ). FETAL SURVEILLANCE AND DELIVERY OPTIONS
