Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes” in the Diabetes Mellitus and Carbohydrate Metabolism section of Endotext ( 134 ). FETAL SURVEILLANCE AND DELIVERY OPTIONS IN GESTATIONAL DIABETES Individuals with GDM who require pharmacotherapy but do not have other comorbidities should initiate once or twice weekly antenatal fetal surveillance at 32 weeks gestation ( 135 ). There is no consensus regarding antepartum testing in individuals with diet-controlled GDM ( 1 ). For those individuals with diet-controlled GDM extending pregnancy beyond 40 weeks gestation, consideration could be made to initiate antenatal testing ( 135 ). An ultrasound for growth to look for head to body disproportion (large abdominal circumference compared to the biparietal diameter) and evidence of LGA should be considered at ~29-32 weeks ( 1 ). The documented risks associated with attempted vaginal delivery with a fetal estimated weight >4500 gm in the setting of pregestational diabetes have resulted in a reasonable practice of offering cesarean delivery ( 136 ). This recommendation is extended to those with GDM and a fetal estimated weight >4500 gm ( 1 ). Nevertheless, a Cochrane review found insufficient evidence in using fetal biometry to assist in guiding the medical management of GDM to improve either perinatal or maternal health outcomes ( 137 ). When GDM is well-controlled with either diet or medications, delivery <39 weeks gestation is not warranted. Delivery is usually recommended by 40 6/7 weeks for uncomplicated diet-controlled GDM and by 39 6/7 weeks for well-controlled GDM on medication( 138 ). Earlier delivery should be considered with suboptimal glucose control or other complicating factors such as hypertension ( 138 ). The framework of evaluating the risks and benefits of induction of labor to expectant management in both high-risk and low-risk individuals has shifted from a historical lens of induction of labor compared to spontaneous labor; multiple studies have demonstrated no increased risk of cesarean delivery with induction of labor <40 weeks gestation ( 139 – 141 ). POSTPARTUM ISSUES IN WOMEN WITH GESTATIONAL DIABETES Re-Evaluating Glucose Tolerance Postpartum and Future Risk of Diabetes Identification of poor glycemic control in pregnancy to predict risk for T2DM was present in the earliest screening and diagnostic strategies. Up to 70% of individuals with GDM are estimated to ultimately develop T2DM within 20-30 years after delivery. Differentiation of GDM from previously undiagnosed T2DM should be performed via a 75-gram 2-hour GTT
