Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


during pregnancy if done before 3 months postpartum ( 149 ). A study looking at utility of using A1c vs 2h GTT vs FPG for screening of individuals with recent GDM showed that A1c and A1c plus FPG did not have the sensitivity and specificity to diagnose impaired carbohydrate metabolism postpartum ( 150 , 151 ). The importance of diagnosing impaired glucose intolerance lies in its value in predicting the future development of T2DM. In one series which mainly studied Hispanic individuals, a diagnosis of impaired glucose tolerance was the most potent predictor of the development of T2DM in individuals with a history of GDM; 80% of such women developed diabetes in the subsequent 5-7 years ( 152 ). Intensified efforts promoting diet, exercise and weight loss should be instituted in these individuals. Other studies have shown other risk factors for development of prediabetes and/or T2DM after GDM including earlier diagnosis of GDM in pregnancy, insulin therapy during pregnancy, and BMI ( 64 , 153 , 154 ). A study in Italy showed pre-pregnancy BMI and PCOS as strong predictors of postpartum impaired glucose tolerance ( 155 , 156 ). A1c within 12 months postpartum may be useful in addition to GTT to diagnose some women with history of GDM and normal glucose tolerance. A study of 141 individuals in Spain with recent GDM found that 10% had normal glucose tolerance, normal FPG, and isolated A1c 5.7-6.4% suggesting that A1c is a useful tool to diagnose prediabetes in individuals with a history of GDM with normal glucose tolerance postpartum ( 156 ). Interestingly, in this study the group of individuals with isolated A1c 5.7-6.4% with normal glucose tolerance and normal FPG were more likely to be non-Hispanic White and more likely had higher LDL-C values. A1c is a sensitive test in detecting prediabetes and overt diabetes in postpartum individuals with history of GDM ( 157 ). The TRIPOD study demonstrated that the use of a thiazolidinedione postpartum in individuals with a history of GDM and persistent impaired glucose intolerance decreased the development of T2DM ( 158 ). The rate of T2DM in the 133 individuals randomized to troglitazone was 5.4% versus 12.1% in the 133 individuals randomized to placebo at a median follow-up of 30 months ( 159 ). The protection from diabetes was closely related to the degree of reduction of insulin secretion three months after randomization and persisted
