Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


a median follow-up of 30 months ( 159 ). The protection from diabetes was closely related to the degree of reduction of insulin secretion three months after randomization and persisted 8 months after the medication was stopped. In the PIPOD study, use of Pioglitazone to the same high-risk patient group stabilized previously falling β-cell function and revealed a close association between reduced insulin requirements and low risk of diabetes ( 7 , 67 ). However, using thiazolidinediones for the purpose of preventing the development of T2DM in individuals with a history of GDM has not been recommended. The Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) Trial analyzed their data in individuals with a history of GDM ( 66 ). A total of 349 individuals had a history of GDM, and such a history conferred a 74% increased risk for the development of T2DM compared with individuals without a history of GDM. In the placebo arm, individuals developed T2DM at an alarming rate of 17% per year but this rate was cut in half by either use of metformin or diet and exercise. The DPP, TRIPOD, and PIPOD studies support clinical management that focuses on identifying individuals who meet criteria for metabolic syndrome, achieving postpartum weight loss, and instituting aggressive interventions beginning with lifestyle changes to decrease insulin resistance for the primary prevention of T2DM. Individuals with a history of GDM who display normal testing postpartum should undergo lifestyle interventions for postpartum weight reduction and receive repeat testing at least every 3 years ( 37 ). For individuals who may have subsequent pregnancies, screening more frequently has the advantage of detecting abnormal glucose metabolism before the next pregnancy to ensure preconception glucose control ( 1 ). Breastfeeding Breastfeeding should be encouraged in all individuals with a history of GDM for improving maternal and offspring health outcomes. Lactation completes the reproductive cycle and is associated with significant short- and long-term cardiometabolic benefits for both mother and infant, with most demonstrating a dose-dependent relationship ( 160 ). Professional society recommendations recommend exclusive breastfeeding for the first 6 months of life, then ongoing breastfeeding with complementary foods through the second year or as long as desired by both mother and child ( 160 – 162 ). Initially the correlation between breastfeeding and reduced incidence of T2DM were based on self-reported lactation status and diabetes diagnoses. Subsequent larger studies have confirmed this relationship. Over 1200 individuals who had
