Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: pubmed, diabetes, jun, available, cited, internet, cited jun, gdm, https, jun available, available https, gestational, nih, gov, nih gov


the correlation between breastfeeding and reduced incidence of T2DM were based on self-reported lactation status and diabetes diagnoses. Subsequent larger studies have confirmed this relationship. Over 1200 individuals who had at least 1 live birth and reported lactation duration were followed in a community-based prospective study over 30 years, with diabetes screening performed up to 7 times (CARDIA study) ( 163 ). Not only was there a three-fold increased incidence of T2DM in those with no breastfeeding compared to any breastfeeding, but the relative hazard was also graded based on duration of breastfeeding ( 163 ). These findings were also reported in the most recent meta-analysis evaluating the relationship between lactation and maternal risk of T2DM ( 164 ). For children, breastmilk intake also appears to decrease the risk of developing obesity and impaired glucose tolerance ( 165 ). In the large EPOCH study (Exploring Perinatal Outcomes Among Children Study), offspring of individuals with diabetes (primarily GDM) who were breastfed for at least 6 months had a slower BMI growth trajectory during childhood and a lower childhood BMI than those who were not breastfed ( 166 ). There is a growing literature suggesting that some of the protective benefits on childhood obesity and programming the infant immune system from breast milk may be influenced by appetite regulatory hormones, biomarkers of oxidative stress and inflammation, and the milk microbiome ( 167 – 170 ). Contraception Discussing contraception and family planning during pregnancy is an effective way to promote safe pregnancy interval, with optimal outcomes observed when delivery and conception are at least 18 months apart ( 171 ). For individuals with GDM, the postpartum and inter-pregnancy periods offer a tremendous opportunity to employ diet, lifestyle, and other therapeutic changes to reduce the risk of subsequent GDM or T2DM ( 171 ). All pharmacologic options for contraception are considered safe in the setting of recent or remote GDM, though estrogen-containing methods should be delayed until ≥21 days postpartum to reduce the risk of thromboembolism ( 172 ). Estrogen may negatively impact breast milk production, so consideration of infant feeding method should also be weighed against initiation. We recommend a patient-centered approach to counseling and selecting a contraceptive method. There is limited data on the influence of various contraceptive methods on long-term risk of T2DM, insulin sensitivity, glycemic control, weight gain, and hypercholesterolemia ( 173 ). Extensive research evaluating these relationships concludes the
