Sick sinus syndrome overview
KEYWORDS: sinus, syndrome, sinus syndrome, sick, sick sinus, patients, node, usually, symptoms, associated, bradycardia, sss, sinus node, include, heart


Overview Sick sinus syndrome (SSS) is a term used to describe a number of different abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias) caused by a malfunction of the sinus node, the heart's "natural" pacemaker. It encompasses disorders causing reduced automaticity of the sinoatrial node, exit block, and sinus arrest. The syndrome primarily affects the elderly, and is associated with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation or flutter in approximately half of the patients and with distal conduction disease in up to one tenth of patients. Sick sinus syndrome was first described by Dr. Keith and Dr. Flack, in 1907. In 2015, MYH6 gene mutations were first implicated in the pathogenesis of sick sinus syndrome. In 1972, Dr. Mandel found a new method of assessing sinus node function, known as sinus node recovery time. There is no classification system for sick sinus syndrome. Sick sinus syndrome occurs as an improperly propagated signal from the sinoatrial (SA) node. Age- dependent progressive fibrosis of the sinus nodal tissue and Remodeling of a sinuatrial node are the potential mechanisms of this abnormally formed signal propagation. MYH6 gene may also be involved in the pathogenesis of this condition. Sick sinus syndrome can result in many abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias), including sinus arrest, sinus node exit block, sinus bradycardia, and other types of bradycardia (slow heart rate). Sick sinus syndrome may also be caused by a variety of conditions including but not limited to myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillation, drugs or toxins, infections,medications, electrolyte abnormalities, hypothermia, hypoxemia, hypercarbia, and acidosis. Sick sinus syndrome must be differentiated from other cause of syncope, lightheadedness, dizziness, and tachycardia-bradycardia syndrome. The incidence of SSS increases with increasing age, occurring in 1 of every 600 cardiac patients above the age of 65 years old. Sick sinus syndrome (SSS) usually occurs in individuals older than 50 years old. There is no difference in incidence of SSS between men and women. In addition, the black population was found to have a 41% lower risk of developing SSS as compared to the white population. There is insufficient evidence to recommend routine screening for sick sinus syndrome. Sick sinus syndrome natural history progress over decades. Patients are usually asymptomatic at first, but then symptoms may present due to the insufficient blood supply. Sinus pause or severe bradycardia may present with the central nervous system (CNS) under perfusion which manifests with presyncope or syncope. Possible complications of sick sinus syndrome include cerebrovascular events,
