Sick sinus syndrome overview
KEYWORDS: sinus, syndrome, sinus syndrome, sick, sick sinus, patients, node, usually, symptoms, associated, bradycardia, sss, sinus node, include, heart


Sinus pause or severe bradycardia may present with the central nervous system (CNS) under perfusion which manifests with presyncope or syncope. Possible complications of sick sinus syndrome include cerebrovascular events, stroke, transient ischemic events, renal, gastrointestinal hypo-perfusion, thromboembolism, Fatigue and exercise intolerance. The syndrome is progressive, which means it usually gets worse over time. Patients with sick sinus syndrome (SSS) may present with nonspecific symptoms or be asymptomatic. 50 percent of patients present with syncope or pre-syncope related to the decreased cerebral perfusion secondary to bradyarrhythmias or tachyarrhythmias. Some of the symptoms that may develop among patients include memory loss, dizziness or light-headedness, Palpitations, chest pain or angina, shortness of breath, fatigue, and headache. Patients with sick sinus syndrome usually appear normal. Physical examination of patients with sick sinus syndrome is usually remarkable for bradycard associated with the diagnosis of sick sinus syndrome. However, electrolyte abnormalities may be one of the causes. Possible metabolic disturbances associated with sick sinus syndrome include hyperkalemia, hypokalemia, hypoglycemia, hypocalcemia, and hypoxia. Sick sinus syndrome is a collection of heart rhythm disorders that include sinus bradycardia, sinus pauses and sinus arrest. Sick sinus syndrome can evolve towards causing atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, ectopic atrial tachycardia, sinus node reentrant tachycardia, and tachycardia-bradycardia. There are no echocardiography/ultrasound findings associated with sick sinus syndrome. The management of sick sinus syndrome depends on the underlying cause and the presenting symptoms. Asymptomatic patients are usually monitored without therapy. Atropine may be used in the presence of symptoms or hemodynamic compromise. The management of sick sinus syndrome depends on the underlying cause and the presenting symptoms. After correcting the reversible causes of sick sinus syndrome, it can be managed by placing an implantable pacemaker. Indications of the implantable pacemaker include, patients with documented bradycardia and are symptomatic, patients with chronotropic incompetence, sinus node dysfunction secondary to medications necessitated by another medical condition, and patients with heart rate < 40 per minute. Historical Perspective Sick sinus syndrome was first described by Dr. Keith and Dr. Flack, in 1907. In 2015, MYH6 gene mutations were first implicated in the pathogenesis of sick sinus syndrome. In 1972, Dr. Mandel found a new method of assessing sinus node function, known as sinus node recovery time. Classification There is no classification system for sick sinus syndrome. Pathophysiology Sick sinus syndrome occurs as an improperly propagated signal from the sinoatrial (SA) node. Age- dependent progressive fibrosis of
