Sick sinus syndrome overview
KEYWORDS: sinus, syndrome, sinus syndrome, sick, sick sinus, patients, node, usually, symptoms, associated, bradycardia, sss, sinus node, include, heart


Classification There is no classification system for sick sinus syndrome. Pathophysiology Sick sinus syndrome occurs as an improperly propagated signal from the sinoatrial (SA) node. Age- dependent progressive fibrosis of the sinus nodal tissue and Remodeling of a sinuatrial node are the potential mechanisms of this abnormally formed signal propagation. MYH6 gene may also be involved in the pathogenesis of this condition. Causes Sick sinus syndrome can result in many abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias), including sinus arrest, sinus node exit block, sinus bradycardia, and other types of bradycardia (slow heart rate). Sick sinus syndrome may also be caused by a variety of conditions including but not limited to myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillation, drugs or toxins, infections,medications, electrolyte abnormalities, hypothermia, hypoxemia, hypercarbia, and acidosis. Differentiating Sick sinus syndrome from other Diseases Sick sinus syndrome must be differentiated from other cause of syncope, lightheadedness, dizziness, and tachycardia-bradycardia syndrome. Epidemiology and Demographics The incidence of SSS increases with increasing age, occurring in 1 of every 600 cardiac patients above the age of 65 years old. Sick sinus syndrome (SSS) usually occurs in individuals older than 50 years old. There is no difference in incidence of SSS between men and women. In addition, the black population was found to have a 41% lower risk of developing SSS as compared to the white population. Screening There is insufficient evidence to recommend routine screening for sick sinus syndrome. Natural history, Complications and Prognosis Sick sinus syndrome natural history progress over decades. Patients are usually asymptomatic at first, but then symptoms may present due to the insufficient blood supply. Sinus pause or severe bradycardia may present with the central nervous system (CNS) under perfusion which manifests with presyncope or syncope. Possible complications of sick sinus syndrome include cerebrovascular events, stroke, transient ischemic events, renal, gastrointestinal hypo-perfusion, thromboembolism, Fatigue and exercise intolerance. The syndrome is progressive, which means it usually gets worse over time. Diagnosis History and Symptoms Patients with sick sinus syndrome (SSS) may present with nonspecific symptoms or be asymptomatic. 50 percent of patients present with syncope or pre-syncope related to the decreased cerebral perfusion secondary to bradyarrhythmias or tachyarrhythmias. Some of the symptoms that may develop among patients include memory loss, dizziness or light-headedness, Palpitations, chest pain or angina, shortness of breath, fatigue, and headache. Physical Examination Patients with sick sinus syndrome usually appear normal. Physical examination of patients with sick sinus syndrome is usually
