Sick sinus syndrome overview
KEYWORDS: sinus, syndrome, sinus syndrome, sick, sick sinus, patients, node, usually, symptoms, associated, bradycardia, sss, sinus node, include, heart


chest pain or angina, shortness of breath, fatigue, and headache. Physical Examination Patients with sick sinus syndrome usually appear normal. Physical examination of patients with sick sinus syndrome is usually remarkable for bradycardia, tachycardia, and signs of the organ hypoperfusion. Laboratory Findings There is no laboratory findings associated with the diagnosis of sick sinus syndrome. However, electrolyte abnormalities may be one of the causes. Possible metabolic disturbances associated with sick sinus syndrome include hyperkalemia, hypokalemia, hypoglycemia, hypocalcemia, and hypoxia. Electrocardiogram 3/5 Sick sinus syndrome is a collection of heart rhythm disorders that include sinus bradycardia, sinus pauses and sinus arrest. Sick sinus syndrome can evolve towards causing atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, ectopic atrial tachycardia, sinus node reentrant tachycardia, and tachycardia-bradycardia. Echocardiography There are no echocardiography/ultrasound findings associated with sick sinus syndrome. X Ray There are no x-ray findings associated with sick sinus syndrome. CT Scan There are no CT scan findings associated with sick sinus syndrome. MRI There are no MRI findings associated with sick sinus syndrome. Other Imaging Findings There are no other imaging findings associated with sick sinus syndrome. Other Diagnostic Studies There are no other diagnostic studies associated with sick sinus syndrome. Treatment Medical Therapy The management of sick sinus syndrome depends on the underlying cause and the presenting symptoms. Asymptomatic patients are usually monitored without therapy. Atropine may be used in the presence of symptoms or hemodynamic compromise. Surgery The management of sick sinus syndrome depends on the underlying cause and the presenting symptoms. After correcting the reversible causes of sick sinus syndrome, it can be managed by placing an implantable pacemaker. Indications of the implantable pacemaker include, patients with documented bradycardia and are symptomatic, patients with chronotropic incompetence, sinus node dysfunction secondary to medications necessitated by another medical condition, and patients with heart rate < 40 per minute.
