Case report
KEYWORDS: nasal, gout, case, bmj, management, diagnosis, report, gouty, reported, review, cases, case report, nose, tophi, richards


Case report A rare case of nasal gout Emma Richards , Emma Watts , Lisha McClelland Birmingham NHS Foundation Gout is an increasingly common metabolic disorder were associated with nasal obstruction and Trust, Birmingham, UK worldwide. Classical presentation is with acute attacks correlated with his joint pains, which were usually of arthritis affecting the first metatarsophalangeal joint. managed with diclofenac (having previously been Correspondence to With disease progression, tophi may also appear. We intolerant of colchicine). He had no other signifi- Emma Richards; present an unusual case of nasal gout in a 55-y ear- old cant medical history, but he was becoming conscious emma. richards13@ nhs. net man who was referred to the Ear, Nose and Throat of the cosmetic impact of his nasal changes, partic- Accepted 18 September 2020 and episodic pain. We discuss the work up, diagnosis found to have a tophus of his left elbow. and management of this case and review the limited His GP commenced him on allopurinol and literature on this topic. referred him to rheumatology for further opinion. Rheumatology review corroborated the history and examination and an ultrasound of his nose and CT scan of the sinuses were ordered. Referral was made BACKGROUND to the Ear, Nose and Thorat (ENT) for further Gout is a well-k nown metabolic disorder associ- management. ated with joint inflammation. It is already the most ENT review confirmed the obvious irregularity common inflammatory arthritis worldwide and overlying the nasal bones with increased pigmen- continues to increase in prevalence.1 The disease tation of overlying skin (figure 1). The episodes classically affects men (M:F ratio 4.3:1) and is rare of swelling, redness and tenderness were associ- in those under 20 years, increasing in prevalence ated with fluctuations in smell and nasal obstruc- until the ninth decade.2 Other risk factors include tive symptoms, therefore a nasendoscopy was genetic factors and certain medications such as performed to rule out underlying masses. diuretics.3 Pathophysiologically, gout is a disorder of purine INVESTIGATIONS metabolism leading to hyperuricaemia as a sequelae of impaired renal excretion of urate. The disease ► Ultrasound of the nose: suggested non- specific diffuse swelling across the nasal bridge. trajectory is categorised into three parts: asymp- tomatic hyperuricaemia, periods of acute attacks of ► Flexible nasendoscopy: ruled out any under- lying mass. gouty arthritis and a final stage of chronic topha- ceous gout.3 4 During acute attacks, symptoms of ► CT scan
