Case report
KEYWORDS: nasal, gout, case, bmj, management, diagnosis, report, gouty, reported, review, cases, case report, nose, tophi, richards


of ► Flexible nasendoscopy: ruled out any under- lying mass. gouty arthritis and a final stage of chronic topha- ceous gout.3 4 During acute attacks, symptoms of ► CT scan of the sinuses (figure 2): demonstrated a subcutaneous lesion around the dorsum of the severe pain, swelling and erythema occur, usually nose with flecks of calcification, which could be becoming most intense in the first 24 hours. consistent with gouty deposits. Following recurrent acute attacks, around 50% of people with untreated gout will develop tophi by 10 years.5 Clinically, gout typically manifests in the DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS extremities because the lower temperature is more The initial differential diagnosis included topha- condusive to the precipitation of urate from the ceous gout due to the coincidence of nasal symptoms plasma.5 In roughly 75% of cases, the first meta- with flares of known gout affecting the metatarso- tarsophalangeal joint is affected first.3 Other areas phalangeal joints and elbows. Other differentials commonly affected include the tarsals, ankles, included soft tissue and bony neoplasms knees and finger joints.3 Negatively birefringent urate crystals seen on TREATMENT polarising microscopic examination of specimens Following informed discussion, the patient opted is the gold standard for diagnosis. However this is to undergo debulking biopsy using an intercartilag- often impractical. Serum uric acid levels and joint inous approach. X-r ays also have a role,6 but in most cases it is the Clinically, the patient benefitted from a good history and examination that generates the highest cosmetic outcome. Histology confirmed deposits suspicion. Our case emphasises the importance of of amorphous material interspersed within fibro- careful history and examination in the establish- adipose tissue and skeletal muscle fibres. Needle- © BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2020. No commercial ment of a strong differential when presented with like clefts were associated with a foreign body type re- use. See rights and an unusual manifestation of this condition. granulomatous reaction and patchy dense chronic permissions. Published by BMJ. inflammation, supporting a diagnosis of gout. To cite: Richards E, Watts E, CASE PRESENTATION McClelland L. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e234788. A 55- year-o ld man presented to his General Prac- doi:- tice with a 4- year history of intermittent swelling 234788 and redness over the bridge of his nose following Richards E, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e234788. doi: 1 Case report in the English language. This presentation fits with the tendency for crystals to precipitate in cool extremities.
