Case report
KEYWORDS: nasal, gout, case, bmj, management, diagnosis, report, gouty, reported, review, cases, case report, nose, tophi, richards


following Richards E, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e234788. doi: 1 Case report in the English language. This presentation fits with the tendency for crystals to precipitate in cool extremities. All reported cases feature middle-a ged males presenting with predominant symptoms of nasal obstruction and poor cosmetic appearance that improved following surgical management.8 As in this case, the nasal lesion is frequently tender, however a number of patients have reported painless lumps.9 10 All reported cases (bar one) have occurred in patients with known gouty arthritis and often poorly controlled serum urate levels.11 This reflects the natural progression of the condition as tophi typically develop during later stages. Thus, nasal tophi are unlikely to be the initial presentation of this systemic condition. Although this case demonstrated no features of bony invasion, Wu et al describe a 2×2×1.5 cm lesion on the nasal dorsum associated with nasal bone destruction which required repair with a titanium mesh plate.8 Similarly, CT imaging provided by Chen et al revealed a tophaceous lesion invading into the nasal bone and septal cartilage.10 CT scan proved the investigation of choice across all available literature reports. The majority of published cases were managed surgically and CT scan helped in operative planning. Chen et al advocated the role of ultrasound guided fine needle aspira- tion cytology (FNAC) and microscopy for diagnostics. This non- invasive option was particularly beneficial as their patient declined surgical management, electing to optimise medical therapy once reassured of the nature of the lesion.10 Papanico- laou (PAP) staining and polarised light microscopy may have a role in confirming pathology prior to surgical excision.10 Ultra- sound has proven a useful investigation of tophi elsewhere in the body and is cost-e ffective, non- invasive and easy to perform.12 However, in our case, where no FNAC was performed, ultra- sound provided little diagnostic assistance. Ultrasound FNAC therefore should be considered a safe and quick way to establish Figure 1 Examination revealed irregularity and increased a diagnosis prior to definitive management. Flexible nasendos- pigmentation over dorsum of nose. copy is another relevant investigation, which to our knowl- edge was only explicitly reported by Chen et al.10 This easily accessible modality enables direct visualisation of nasal cavity OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP to assess for underlying masses while awaiting further radiolog- Following biopsy and diagnosis, he was referred back to the ical imaging. Where nasal bone involvement is likely to require rheumatology team
