Case report
KEYWORDS: nasal, gout, case, bmj, management, diagnosis, report, gouty, reported, review, cases, case report, nose, tophi, richards


assess for underlying masses while awaiting further radiolog- Following biopsy and diagnosis, he was referred back to the ical imaging. Where nasal bone involvement is likely to require rheumatology team for ongoing management. reconstruction, flexible nasendoscopy is indispensible to enable surgical planning. DISCUSSION Numerous management options have been described in the As the incidence of gout increases, so too does the variability regarding the size of the lesion, involvement of underlying bone istic joint arthropathy that is classically reported. The literature and structural issues such as deviated nasal septum following reports tophaceous lesions presenting in the breast, ears, spine, trauma.13 Management of nasal gout does not yet have a defined abdominal striae and even heart valves.7 Nasal tophi, however, treatment protocol due to its rarity and variable presentation. remain a rare manifestation with fewer than 10 reported cases The main options available are an open biopsy or transnasal approach. In our case, an intercartilaginous approach was used as this allowed good access to the soft tissue of the dorsum without causing an external scar. This involves an incision between the upper and lower alar cartilages. It has the advan- tage of involving and preserving the interdomal ligaments and involves the least undermining. If the tophi were present within the nasal cavity, then a direct biopsy could have been performed for diagnosis. In contrast, an open approach that involves an infracartilaginous incision and a connecting transcolumellar inci- sion involves extensive undermining and an external scar but allows for excellent exposure, which may be necessary for more extensive disease.14 Diagnostic confirmation of nasal gout in these cases derives from postoperative tissue analysis. Kwak et al advocate the Figure 2 CT scan of the sinuses shows flecks of calcification over the importance of fresh samples, as formalin fixation can dissolve dorsum of the nose. the monosodium urate crystals.13 Management of all reported 2 Richards E, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e234788. doi: Case report cases have produced satisfactory cosmetic results and improve- Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. ment in nasal obstruction. Although the maximum duration of ORCID iDs reported follow- up is 2 years, no recurrences have thus far been Emma Richards http:// orcid. org/ 0000- 0001-9 778- 534X reported.8 It remains to be seen what the long- term recurrence Emma Watts http:// orcid. org/ 0000- 0001- 7087- 7324 rates are for tophaceous nasal gout. This case report, together
