Bookshelf_NBK1104
KEYWORDS: cdls, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, pathogenic variant, lange, individuals, lange syndrome, cornelia lange, cornelia, features, testing, proband, variants, genetic


assessment for new manifestations such as seizures or signs of autonomic dysfunction; monitor developmental progress and educational needs; behavioral assessment for anxiety, attention, and aggressive or self-injurious behavior; assessment of mobility and self-help skills. At least annually: ophthalmology evaluation; dental evaluation with cleaning; audiology evaluation in childhood and adolescence. Genetic counseling NIPBL-CdLS, RAD21-CdLS, SMC3-CdLS and BRD4-CdLS are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner; HDAC8-CdLS and SMC1A-CdLS are inherited in an X-linked manner. The majority of affected individuals have a de novo heterozygous pathogenic variant in NIPBL. Fewer than 1% of individuals with autosomal dominant CdLS have an affected parent. When the parents are clinically unaffected, the risk to the sibs of a proband with CdLS is estimated to be 1.5% because of the possibility of germline mosaicism. The risk to sibs of a male proband with X-linked CdLS depends on the status of the proband's mother; the risk to sibs of a female proband with X- linked CdLS depends on the status of the proband's mother and father. Prenatal testing for a pregnancy at increased risk and preimplantation genetic testing are possible for families in which the pathogenic variant has been identified. Diagnosis features and others displaying more severe, classic features. An international consensus statement has define d both cardinal and suggestive features, as well as a scoring system to define classic and non-classic CdLS to assist with clinical genetic testing decisions [Kline et al 2018]. Suggestive Findings Cornelia de Lange syndrome (CdLS) should be suspected in individuals with the following clinical and radiographic features. Clinical findings • Distinctive craniofacial appearance (often recognizable; see Figure 1) including: ⚬ Microcephaly (mean occipital frontal circumference <2nd centile) ⚬ Synophrys with highly arched and/or thick eyebrows ⚬ Long, thick eyelashes ⚬ Short nasal bridge, upturned nasal tip with anteverted nares ⚬ Long and/or smooth philtrum, thin vermilion of the upper lip, downturned corners of the mouth ⚬ Highly arched palate with or without cleft palate ⚬ Small widely spaced teeth ⚬ Micrognathia with or without mandibular spurs • Growth failure, which may be detected prenatally and persists postnatally • Developmental delay / intellectual disability, varying from mild to profound • Limb abnormalities (either symmetric or asymmetric) ranging from severe reduction defects with complete absence of the forearms, to various forms of oligodactyly (missing digits) involving primarily the Cornelia de Lange Syndrome 3 upper extremities, to small hands (micromelia) and phalangeal abnormalities (5th digit
