Bookshelf_NBK1104
KEYWORDS: cdls, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, pathogenic variant, lange, individuals, lange syndrome, cornelia lange, cornelia, features, testing, proband, variants, genetic


absence of the forearms, to various forms of oligodactyly (missing digits) involving primarily the Cornelia de Lange Syndrome 3 upper extremities, to small hands (micromelia) and phalangeal abnormalities (5th digit clinodactyly and short first metacarpal resulting in a proximally placed thumb) at the mild end • Hypertrichosis. Thick scalp hair that often extends onto the temporal regions and at times involves the face, ears, back, and arms Radiographic findings. In those without limb deficiencies, the presence of a short first metacarpal on plain radiograph resulting in a proximally placed thumb can be useful in diagnosis. Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of CdLS is established in a proband with the above clinical features and/or by the identification on molecular genetic testing of a heterozygous pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variant in NIPBL, RAD21, SMC3, or BRD4 or a hemizygous pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variant in HDAC8 or SMC1A (see Table 1). Note: (1) Per American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics / Association for Molecular Pathology variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely pathogenic variant" are synonymous [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this GeneReview is understood to include likely pathogenic variants. (2) The identification of variants of uncertain significance cannot be used to confirm or rule out the diagnosis. Molecular genetic testing approaches can include a combination of gene-targeted testing (serial single-gene testing, multigene panel) and comprehensive genomic testing (exome sequencing, exome array, genome sequencing) depending on the phenotype. Gene-targeted testing requires that the clinician determine which gene(s) are likely involved, whereas genomic testing does not. Because the phenotype of Cornelia de Lange syndrome can be broad, individuals with distinctive features described in Suggestive Findings are likely to be diagnosed using gene-targeted testing (see Option 1), whereas those in whom the diagnosis of Cornelia de Lange syndrome has not been considered are more likely to be diagnosed using genomic testing (see Option 2). Option 1 When the phenotypic findings suggest the diagnosis of Cornelia de Lange syndrome, molecular genetic testing approaches include use of a multigene panel or serial single gene testing. A Cornelia de Lange syndrome multigene panel that contains at least NIPBL, SMC1A, HDAC8, SMC3, RAD21 and BRD4 and several additional genes that can cause a phenotype resembling CdLS, such as AFF4, ANKRD11, CREBBP, and EP300 (see Differential Diagnosis), is the most effective way of detecting causal variants [Kline et al 2018]. Because of
