Bookshelf_NBK1104
KEYWORDS: cdls, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, pathogenic variant, lange, individuals, lange syndrome, cornelia lange, cornelia, features, testing, proband, variants, genetic


cause a phenotype resembling CdLS, such as AFF4, ANKRD11, CREBBP, and EP300 (see Differential Diagnosis), is the most effective way of detecting causal variants [Kline et al 2018]. Because of the significant frequency of somatic mosaicism [Huisman et al 2013], testing capable of detecting mosaicism, such as next generation sequencing (NGS), should be considered, preferably using uncultured fibroblasts, although buccal cells or bladder epithelial cells can also be used. This approach is most likely to identify the genetic cause of the condition while limiting identification of pathogenic variants and variants of uncertain significance in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype-focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/duplication analysis, and/or other non-sequencing-based tests. For CdLS, a multigene panel that also includes deletion/ duplication analysis is recommended (see Table 1). 4 GeneReviews ® Figure 1. Classic CdLS craniofacial features tests can be found here. Serial single-gene testing. Sequential molecular genetic testing of NIPBL, SMC1A, HDAC8, SMC3, RAD21 and BRD4 may be considered: • For individuals with features strongly suggestive of CdLS who score highly on the international consensus scoring criteria or for whom multigene panel testing is not available, NIPBL sequence analysis may be considered first. If no pathogenic variant is identified, gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis of NIPBL should be considered next. • If no NIPBL pathogenic variant is identified and the affected individual has milder physical features of CdLS, consider SMC1A sequence and gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis next. • If no NIPBL or SMC1A pathogenic variant is identified and CdLS is highly suspected (especially in an individual with milder features), consider BRD4, SMC3, RAD21, and HDAC8 sequence analysis and gene- targeted deletion/duplication analysis. Option 2 When the diagnosis of Cornelia de Lange syndrome is not strongly considered due to atypical phenotypic features, comprehensive genomic testing (which does not require the clinician to determine which gene[s] are likely involved) is the best option. Exome sequencing is most commonly used; genome sequencing is also possible. ordering genomic testing can be
