Bookshelf_NBK1104
KEYWORDS: cdls, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, pathogenic variant, lange, individuals, lange syndrome, cornelia lange, cornelia, features, testing, proband, variants, genetic


contact. • Repetitive behaviors, which can be exacerbated by anxiety, are common and are associated with more marked intellectual disability and autistic features. • Clinically significant self-injurious behavior occurs in 56% of individuals, with hand-directed self- injurious behavior the most common. Neurologic. Overall, approximately 25% of individuals with CdLS have seizures. Partial epilepsy is the most common type with age of onset typically before age two years. Most affected individuals respond well to standard medical therapy and are able to be weaned off medical therapy after a few years [Verrotti et al 2013] (see Management, Treatment of Manifestations). Limb involvement. Severe abnormalities of the upper extremities are seen in 25% of individuals with CdLS. • Upper-extremity deficiencies ranging from severe reduction defects with complete absence of the forearms to various forms of oligodactyly (missing digits) are present in about one third of those with classic features. • In the absence of limb deficiency, micromelia (small hands), proximally placed thumbs, and fifth-fing er clinodactyly occur in nearly all individuals (see Figure 3). • Radioulnar synostosis is common and may result in flexion contractures of the elbows. • The lower extremities are less involved than the upper extremities. The feet are often small and syndactyly of the second and third toes occurs in more than 80% of affected individuals [Jackson et al 1993]. Gastrointestinal. Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is present in a majority of affected indivdiuals. Other complications of GERD including esophagitis, aspiration, chemical pneumonitis, and irritability can be avoided by diagnosis and treatment of GERD in the neonatal period (see Management). Approximately one third have evidence of aspiration and 15% require a feeding tube [Luzzani et al 2003]. Other gastrointestinal abnormalities include: • Pyloric stenosis (4%), the most frequent cause of persistent vomiting in the newborn period • Intestinal malrotation (2%) • Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) (1%) CDH has been diagnosed both pre- and postnatally, but may be underascertained, especially in infants who die in the perinatal period. Ophthalmologic. As many as 60% of affected individuals demonstrate some degree of ptosis as well as other ocular problems including myopia (60%) and nystagmus (37%) [Levin et al 1990]. Other ophthalmologic abnormalities: 8 GeneReviews ® • Nasolacrimal duct stenosis • Glaucoma • Microcornea • Astigmatism • Optic atrophy • Coloboma of the optic nerve • Strabismus • Proptosis Otolaryngologic. Sensorineural hearing impairment is noted in 40% of children with CdLS, and conductive hearing
