Bookshelf_NBK1104
KEYWORDS: cdls, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, pathogenic variant, lange, individuals, lange syndrome, cornelia lange, cornelia, features, testing, proband, variants, genetic


• Astigmatism • Optic atrophy • Coloboma of the optic nerve • Strabismus • Proptosis Otolaryngologic. Sensorineural hearing impairment is noted in 40% of children with CdLS, and conductive hearing impairment in 60% [Marchisio et al 2014]. Notably, for a significant proportion hearing loss (both sensorineural and conductive) improves over time [Janek et al 2016] Genitourinary • Kidney abnormalities, primarily vesicoureteral reflux, have been reported in 12% of affected individuals. • Cryptorchidism occurs in 73% of males with CdLS • Hypoplastic (small) genitalia occur in 57% and hypospadias in 9% of males [Jackson et al 1993] • Bicornuate uterus, which can cause abdominal pain, has been observed in five (25%) of 20 affected females [Oliver et al 2010, Kline et al 2015]. Cardiovascular. Approximately 30% of individuals with CdLS have congenital heart disease [Chatfield et al 2012]. The most common abnormalities include (in descending order): • Pulmonic or peripheral pulmonic stenosis • Ventricular septal defects • Atrial septal defects • Coarctation or hypoplastic aortic arch • Aortic valve anomaly • Tetralogy of Fallot • Double-outlet right ventricle • Atrioventricular canal defect Immunologic. Antibody deficiency has been described in several individuals with CdLS, indicating a need for immunologic screening and management of immunodeficiency in those affected individuals with severe or recurrent infections [Jyonouchi et al 2013]. The most common reported recurrent infections include chronic ear infections, chronic viral respiratory infections, and pneumonia. Impaired T-cell function may be associated with antibody deficiencies observed in persons with CdLS. Hematologic. Thrombocytopenia often resolves after infancy, but can rarely transition to persistent idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura [Lambert et al 2011]. In most cases, anemia is transient. Other features • A characteristic low-pitched cry that tends to disappear in late infancy has been described in 75% of children with CdLS and is associated with more severe cases [Jackson et al 1993]. • Hypoplastic nipples and umbilicus are seen in 50%. Prognosis. The majority of familial cases suggest that expressivity is relatively consistent within a family. In the absence of severe congenital anomalies of internal organs, life expectancy is not significantly reduced. • Beck & Fenger studied mortality in 48 individuals with CdLS born between 1917 and 1982 and found a modest increase in mortality over the general population when comparing cumulative survival Cornelia de Lange Syndrome 9 rates; the increase is more significant among the younger age groups. They also reported two individuals who died at ages
