Bookshelf_NBK1104
KEYWORDS: cdls, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, pathogenic variant, lange, individuals, lange syndrome, cornelia lange, cornelia, features, testing, proband, variants, genetic


population when comparing cumulative survival Cornelia de Lange Syndrome 9 rates; the increase is more significant among the younger age groups. They also reported two individuals who died at ages 54 and 61 years. • Schrier et al reported 295 affected individuals in whom a cause of death was known. Respiratory causes, including aspiration/reflux and pneumonias, were the most common primary causes (31%), followed by gastrointestinal disease, including obstruction/volvulus (19%). Congenital anomalies accounted for 15% of deaths and included congenital diaphragmatic hernia and congenital heart defects. Acquired cardiac disease accounted for 3% of deaths. Neurologic causes and accidents each accounted for 8%, sepsis for 4%, cancer for 2%, kidney disease for 1.7%, and other causes 9% of deaths. Phenotype Correlations by Gene NIPBL Individuals with classic findings of CdLS, including characteristic facial features and limb anomalies, are more likely to have a pathogenic variant in NIPBL. Other Genes Milder phenotypes that retain some of the characteristic facial features but with variable cognitive and limb or structural involvement compared to individuals with a pathogenic variant in NIPBL have been consistently described and can be seen in individuals with a heterozygous pathogenic variant in BRD4, SMC3 or RAD21 or a hemizygous pathogenic variant in HDAC8 or SMC1A [Deardorff et al 2007, Selicorni et al 2007, Rohatgi et al 2010, Kaiser et al 2014, Minor et al 2014, Gil-Rodríguez et al 2015, Olley et al 2018] (see Figure 2). SMC1A and SMC3 • Individuals with SMC1A or SMC3 pathogenic variants typically have fewer structural anomalies and less severe growth restriction than those with NIPBL pathogenic variants; however, they have significant intellectual disability that can range from moderate to severe [Deardorff et al 2007, Gil-Rodríguez et al 2015, Huisman et al 2017]. • Compared to individuals with a heterozygous NIPBL pathogenic variant, the facial features in those with SMC1A or SMC3 pathogenic variants include slightly flatter and broader eyebrows and a broader and longer nasal bridge [Rohatgi et al 2010]. • Those with pathogenic variants in SMC3 specifically often have subtle or absent synophrys, wider bulbous nose, and a long but well-formed philtrum. • Cardiac malformations, although typically mild, are also observed (~56%) in individuals with SMC3 pathogenic variants, and less frequently in individuals with SMC1A pathogenic variants [Gil-Rodríguez et al 2015]. RAD21. Individuals with a heterozygous RAD21 pathogenic variant: • Typically do not have major structural differences. • Have milder cognitive impairment compared
