Bookshelf_NBK1104
KEYWORDS: cdls, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, pathogenic variant, lange, individuals, lange syndrome, cornelia lange, cornelia, features, testing, proband, variants, genetic


with SMC1A pathogenic variants [Gil-Rodríguez et al 2015]. RAD21. Individuals with a heterozygous RAD21 pathogenic variant: • Typically do not have major structural differences. • Have milder cognitive impairment compared to those with classic CdLS. Specifically, 10% have normal cognition, 45% have mild cognitive impairment and none have severe or profound cognitive disability [Krab et al 2020]. • Often display growth restriction, minor skeletal anomalies, and facial features that overlap with CdLS [Deardorff et al 2012, Krab et al 2020]. HDAC8 • Males with a hemizygous pathogenic variant in HDAC8 have facial features that overlap with CdLS but typically display delayed closure of the anterior fontanelle, hooded eyelids, widely spaced eyes, a wide 10 GeneReviews ® Figure 3. Range of limb anomalies in CdLS nose, mosaic skin pigmentation, dental anomalies, and happy or friendly personalities. Growth also tends to be less severely affected with lower frequency of postnatal growth restriction and microcephaly reported. • Females. The clinical presentation for a female with a heterozygous pathogenic variant in HDAC8 overlaps that of males, but the severity is greatly influenced by the pattern of X inactivation [Kaiser et al 2014]. Genotype-Phenotype Correlations NIPBL. Individuals with pathogenic missense variants and in-frame deletions in NIPBL have been found to have less severe growth deficiency, milder intellectual disability, and fewer structural anomalies [Gillis et al 2004, Ajmone et al 2014, Ansari et al 2014] compared to those with pathogenic loss-of-function NIPBL variants. SMC1A. Pathogenic variants that cause a CdLS phenotype are typically missense and can result in a range of severity. Of note, loss of function pathogenic variants in SMC1A cause an early-infantile epileptic encephalopathy (OMIM 301044; see Genetically Related Disorders). Nomenclature Cornelia de Lange syndrome (CdLS) was first described by Vrolik in 1849, who reported a case as an extreme example of oligodactyly [Oostra et al 1994]. Brachmann provided a detailed account of a case of symmetric monodactyly, antecubital webbing, dwarfism, cervical ribs, and hirsutism. In the 1930s, Cornelia de Lange, a Dutch pediatrician, described two unrelated girls with similar features and named the condition after the city in which she worked: typus degenerativus amstelodamensis [de Lange 1933, de Knecht-van Eekelen & Hennekam 1994]. Some examples in the literature refer to the disorder as Brachmann-de Lange syndrome; however, it is more widely referred to as Cornelia de Lange syndrome in honor of Dr de Lange’s contributions to the understanding of the disorder. Prevalence The
