Bookshelf_NBK1104
KEYWORDS: cdls, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, pathogenic variant, lange, individuals, lange syndrome, cornelia lange, cornelia, features, testing, proband, variants, genetic


hearing loss 7 12 GeneReviews ® Table 4. continued from previous page. Features of Differential Disorder Gene Disorder MOI Overlapping w/CdLS Distinguishing from CdLS Short stature, microcephaly, Alazami-Yuan clinodactyly, hirsutism, TAF6 syndrome (OMIM AR DD/ID, & facial dysmorphism Widow’s peak (rare) 617126) w/long philtrum, thin & arched eyebrows, synophrys 8 AD = autosomal dominant; AR = autosomal recessive; CdLS = Cornelia de Lange syndrome; DD = developmental delay; ID = intellectual disability; MOI = mode of inheritance; XL = X-linked 1. Izumi et al 2. KBG syndrome is caused by either a heterozygous pathogenic variant in ANKRD11 or deletion of 16q24.3 that includes ANKRD11. 3. Ansari et al , Parenti et al 4. Individuals with Bohring-Opitz syndrome (BOS) can have a specific limb posture termed "BOS posture," described as an external rotation or adduction of the shoulders with flexion of the wrists and fingers at the metacarpophalangeal joint. 5. Woods et al 6. EP300 pathogenic variants cause a phenotype that resembles RSTS caused by mutation of CREBBP. However, with the exception of the low-hanging columella, the facial features in EP300-RSTS are less marked. Although the thumbs and halluces are broad, angulation is very uncommon. Intellectual disability is variable but is usually less severe and occasionally normal (see Rubinstein-Taybi Syndrome). 7. O'Rawe et al 8. Alazami et al , Yuan et al Deletions of chromosome 2q31.1 (OMIM 613681). Deletions in this region that encompass the HOXD cluster produce limb reduction defects similar to those seen in CdLS as well as genitourinary and developmental abnormalities [Del Campo et al 1999]. Individuals with deletion of 2q31.1 do not have the characteristic facies of CdLS. Fryns syndrome can be considered in the differential diagnosis of CdLS, most often due to the presence of diaphragmatic defects (diaphragmatic hernia, eventration, hypoplasia, or agenesis) in both disorders. Fryns syndrome and CdLS are characterized by cardiac and kidney anomalies, as well as cleft palate, long philtrum, micrognathia, and distal digital hypoplasia (nails, terminal phalanges). However, other features of Fryns syndrome vary (e.g., widely spaced eyes, broad nasal bridge, and macrostomia). While survival beyond the neonatal period has been rare for Fryns syndrome, severe developmental delay and intellectual disability are common. The molecular diagnosis of Fryns syndrome can be established in proband with suggestive findin gs and biallelic pathogenic variants in PIGN identified by molecular genetic testing. Genetic heterogeneity for not had PIGN pathogenic variants identified. Fetal alcohol syndrome
