Bookshelf_NBK1104
KEYWORDS: cdls, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, pathogenic variant, lange, individuals, lange syndrome, cornelia lange, cornelia, features, testing, proband, variants, genetic


established in proband with suggestive findin gs and biallelic pathogenic variants in PIGN identified by molecular genetic testing. Genetic heterogeneity for not had PIGN pathogenic variants identified. Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS). Features common to both FAS and CdLS include intrauterine growth restriction, failure to thrive, developmental abnormalities, hyperactivity, microcephaly, facial hypertrichosis in the newborn, short palpebral fissures, short nose with anteverted nares, long and smooth philtrum, thin vermilion of the upper lip, and cardiac defects. However, the hands and feet in FAS are not small and speech is less affected than in CdLS. A history of alcohol use during pregnancy is useful in discriminating FAS from CdLS. Management al 2018]. Cornelia de Lange Syndrome 13 Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis To establish the extent of disease and needs in an individual diagnosed with Cornelia de Lange syndrome, the evaluations summarized in Table 5 (if not performed as part of the evaluation that led to the diagnosis) are recommended. Table 5. Recommended Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis in Individuals with Cornelia de Lange Syndrome System/Concern Evaluation Comment Constitutional Measurement of growth parameters CdLS-specific growth charts are available. 1 Neurologic Neurologic eval Consider EEG if seizures are a concern. • Motor, adaptive, cognitive, & speech-language eval. Speech therapy is highly recommended to optimize communication skills Development Developmental assessment & should be implemented in 1st 18 mos of life. • Eval for early intervention / special education For persons age >12 mos: screen for concerns incl sleep disturbances, Behavioral Neuropsychiatric eval ADHD, anxiety, &/or findings suggestive of ASD. Consider radiographs of upper To assess for radioulnar synostosis extremities To incl assessment of: • Gross motor & fine motor skills Musculoskeletal • Limb deficiencies Orthopedics / physical medicine & • Scoliosis rehab / PT & OT eval • Mobility, activities of daily living, & need for adaptive devices • Need for PT (to improve gross motor skills) &/or OT (to improve fine motor skills) • Consider upper GI series to evaluate for malrotation. • Consider endoscopy, pH probe for severe or refractory GERD. Gastrointestinal/ Gastroenterology / nutrition / feeding • Eval of aspiration risk Feeding team eval • Eval of nutritional status • Consider eval for gastrostomy tube placement in those w/ dysphagia &/or aspiration risk. Incl eval for nasolacrimal duct patency, ptosis, assessment of visual acuity, Eyes Ophthalmologic eval dilated fundus exam, measurement of intraocular pressure Hearing Audiologic eval 2 Assess for hearing loss. •
