Bookshelf_NBK1104
KEYWORDS: cdls, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, pathogenic variant, lange, individuals, lange syndrome, cornelia lange, cornelia, features, testing, proband, variants, genetic


variant found in the proband cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, possible explanations include a de novo pathogenic variant in the proband or germline mosaicism in a parent. The frequency of parental germline mosaicism is approximately 1.5%; a frequency of 3.4%-5.4% was reported in a cohort highly enriched for rare familial cases [Slavin et al 2012; Author, unpublished data]. Sibs of a proband. The risk to the sibs of the proband depends on the genetic status of the proband's parents: • If a parent of the proband is affected and/or is known to have the pathogenic variant identified in the proband, the recurrence risk to the sibs is 50%. • If the proband has a known CdLS-related pathogenic variant that cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent and/or the parents are clinically unaffected, the risk to the sibs of a proband has been estimated at 1.5% because of the possibility of germline mosaicism [Jackson et al 1993]. Offspring of a proband • Each child of an individual with autosomal dominant CdLS has a 50% chance of inheriting the pathogenic variant. • While most familial recurrences of CdLS are the result of germline mosaicism in a phenotypically normal parent, rare cases of mildly affected individuals with CdLS having children with CdLS have been reported. Other family members. The risk to other family members depends on the status of the proband's parents: if a parent is affected, the parent's family members may be at risk. X-Linked Inheritance – Risk to Family Members Parents of a male proband Cornelia de Lange Syndrome 19 • The predominance of individuals with X-linked CdLS have the disorder as the result of a de novo SMC1A or HDAC8 pathogenic variant. • The father of an affected male will not have CdLS nor will he be hemizygous for the pathogenic variant. • In a family with more than one affected individual, the mother of an affected male is typically heterozygous for the causative variant; alternatively, if she has no other affected relatives and the causative variant cannot be detected in her leukocyte DNA, she most likely has germline mosaicism. • Note: Unlike a typical X-linked gene, SMC1A is not fully inactivated in the process of X-chromosome inactivation. In this setting, a heterozygous mother is likely to display some features of CdLS that are milder than those of her affected son. However,
