Bookshelf_NBK1104
KEYWORDS: cdls, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, pathogenic variant, lange, individuals, lange syndrome, cornelia lange, cornelia, features, testing, proband, variants, genetic


in the process of X-chromosome inactivation. In this setting, a heterozygous mother is likely to display some features of CdLS that are milder than those of her affected son. However, to date, too few families with SMC1A-CdLS have been identified to fully evaluate this model. Parents of a female proband • A female proband may have inherited the causative variant from either her mother or her father, or the pathogenic variant may be de novo. • Detailed evaluation of the parents and review of the extended family history may help distinguish probands with a de novo pathogenic variant from those with an inherited pathogenic variant. Molecular genetic testing of the parents can determine if the pathogenic variant was inherited. Note: Testing of parental leukocyte DNA may not detect all instances of somatic mosaicism. • Germline mosaicism for an SMC1A pathogenic variant was reported in the father of multiple affected daughters [Deardorff et al 2007]. Sibs of a male proband. The risk to sibs of a male proband depends on the genetic status of the mother: • If the mother of the proband has an SMC1A or HDAC8 pathogenic variant, the chance of transmitting it in each pregnancy is 50%. ⚬ Male sibs who inherit the pathogenic variant will be affected; ⚬ Female sibs who inherit the pathogenic variant will be heterozygous. Females who are heterozygous for an SMC1A pathogenic variant are likely to have some features of CdLS; females who are heterozygous for an HDAC8 pathogenic variant may or may not have clear clinical findings of CdLS depending on the pattern of X-linked inactivation. • If the proband represents a simplex case (i.e., a single occurrence in a family) and if the pathogenic variant cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of the mother, the risk to sibs is approximately 1% because of the possibility of maternal germline mosaicism. Sibs of a female proband. The risk to sibs depends on the genetic status of the parents: • If the mother of the proband has an SMC1A or HDAC8 pathogenic variant, the chance of transmitting it in each pregnancy is 50%. Males who inherit the pathogenic variant will be affected; females who inherit the pathogenic variant will be heterozygotes (see Sibs of a male proband). • If the father of the proband has a pathogenic variant, he will transmit it to all his daughters and none of his sons. • If
