Bookshelf_NBK1104
KEYWORDS: cdls, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, pathogenic variant, lange, individuals, lange syndrome, cornelia lange, cornelia, features, testing, proband, variants, genetic


of a male proband). • If the father of the proband has a pathogenic variant, he will transmit it to all his daughters and none of his sons. • If the proband represents a simplex case (i.e., a single occurrence in a family) and if the pathogenic variant cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, the risk to sibs is approximately 1% because of the possibility of parental germline mosaicism. Offspring of a proband children. • Males with X-linked CdLS would transmit the pathogenic variant to all of their daughters and none of their sons. 20 GeneReviews ® • Females with X-linked CdLS would have a 50% chance of transmitting the pathogenic variant to each child. Other family members. The risk to other family members depends on the status of the proband's parents: if a parent has a pathogenic variant, the parent's family members may be at risk. Related Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to young adults who are affected or at risk. DNA banking. Because it is likely that testing methodology and our understanding of genes, pathogenic mechanisms, and diseases will improve in the future, consideration should be given to banking DNA from probands in whom a molecular diagnosis has not been confirmed (i.e., the causative pathogenic mechanism is unknown). For more information, see Huang et al . Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Molecular genetic testing. Once the CdLS-causative pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Ultrasound examination. High-resolution ultrasound examination to follow growth and to evaluate the limbs, heart, diaphragm, palate, and other organs or structures affected in CdLS may be offered to families in which a pathogenic variant has not been identified. Reported prenatal ultrasound findings: • Increased nuchal translucency in the first trimester [Sekimoto et al 2000, Huang & Porto 2002, Clark et al 2012] • Growth failure, which typically presents in the second trimester • The typical in utero facial profile of a fetus with CdLS consisting of micrognathia, a prominent upper lip, and a depressed nasal bridge with somewhat anteverted nares [Ranzini et al 1997, Boog et al 1999, Urban
