Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


composed of one or more unique pure substances called elements, familiar examples of which are hydrogen, oxygen, carbon, nitrogen, calcium, and iron. The smallest unit of any of these pure substances (elements) is an atom. Atoms are made up of subatomic particles such as the proton, electron and neutron. Two or more atoms combine to form a molecule, such as the water molecules, proteins, and sugars found in living things. Molecules are the chemical building blocks of all body structures. Acellis the smallest independently functioning unit of a living organism. Even bacteria, which are extremely small, independently-living organisms, have a cellular structure. Each bacterium is a single cell. All living structures of human anatomy contain cells, and almost all functions of human physiology are performed in cells or are initiated by cells. Access for free at openstax.org 1.2 • Structural Organization of the Human Body 11 A human cell typically consists of flexible membranes that enclose cytoplasm, a water-based cellular fluid together with a variety of tiny functioning units calledorganelles. In humans, as in all organisms, cells perform all functions of life. Atissueis a group of many similar cells (though sometimes composed of a few related types) that work together to perform a specific function. Anorganis an anatomically distinct structure of the body composed of two or more tissue types. Each organ performs one or more specific physiological functions. Anorgan systemis a group of organs that work together to perform major functions or meet physiological needs of the body. This book covers eleven distinct organ systems in the human body (Figure 1.4andFigure 1.5). Assigning organs to organ systems can be imprecise since organs that “belong” to one system can also have functions integral to another system. In fact, most organs contribute to more than one system. In this book and throughout your studies of biological sciences, you will often read descriptions related to similarities and differences among biological structures, processes, and health related to a person's biological sex. People often use the words "female" and "male" to describe two different concepts: our sense of gender identity, and our biological sex as determined by our chromosomes, hormones, organs, and other physical characteristics. For some people, gender identity is different from biological sex or their sex assigned at birth. Throughout this book, "female" and "male" refer to sex only, and the typical anatomy and physiology of XX and XY individuals is discussed.
