Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


sex or their sex assigned at birth. Throughout this book, "female" and "male" refer to sex only, and the typical anatomy and physiology of XX and XY individuals is discussed. 12 1 • An Introduction to the Human Body FIGURE1.4 Organ Systems of the Human Body Organs that work together are grouped into organ systems. Access for free at openstax.org 1.2 • Structural Organization of the Human Body 13 FIGURE1.5 Organ Systems of the Human Body (continued) Organs that work together are grouped into organ systems. The organism level is the highest level of organization. Anorganismis a living being that has a cellular structure and that can independently perform all physiologic functions necessary for life. In multicellular organisms, including humans, all cells, tissues, organs, and organ systems of the body work together to maintain the life and health of the 14 1 • An Introduction to the Human Body organism. 1.3 Functions of Human Life LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Explain the importance of organization to the function of the human organism • Distinguish between metabolism, anabolism, and catabolism • Provide at least two examples of human responsiveness and human movement • Compare and contrast growth, differentiation, and reproduction The different organ systems each have different functions and therefore unique roles to perform in physiology. These many functions can be summarized in terms of a few that we might consider definitive of human life: organization, metabolism, responsiveness, movement, development, and reproduction. Organization A human body consists of trillions of cells organized in a way that maintains distinct internal compartments. These compartments keep body cells separated from external environmental threats and keep the cells moist and nourished. They also separate internal body fluids from the countless microorganisms that grow on body surfaces, including the lining of certain passageways that connect to the outer surface of the body. The intestinal tract, for example, is home to more bacterial cells than the total of all human cells in the body, yet these bacteria are outside the body and cannot be allowed to circulate freely inside the body. Cells, for example, have a cell membrane (also referred to as the plasma membrane) that keeps the intracellular environment—the fluids and organelles—separate from the extracellular environment. Blood vessels keep blood inside a closed circulatory system, and nerves and muscles are wrapped in connective tissue sheaths that separate
