Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the body monitor and react to deviations from homeostasis using negative feedback.Negative feedbackis a mechanism that reverses a deviation from the set point. Therefore, negative feedback maintains body parameters within their normal range. The maintenance of homeostasis by negative feedback goes on throughout the body at all times, and an understanding of negative feedback is thus fundamental to an understanding of human physiology. Negative Feedback A negative feedback system has three basic components (Figure 1.10a). Asensor, also referred to a receptor, is a component of a feedback system that monitors a physiological value. This value is reported to the control center. Thecontrol centeris the component in a feedback system that compares the value to the normal range. If the value deviates too much from the set point, then the control center activates an effector. Aneffectoris the component in a feedback system that causes a change to reverse the situation and return the value to the normal range. Access for free at openstax.org 1.5 • Homeostasis 21 FIGURE1.10 Negative Feedback System In a negative feedback system, a stimulus—a deviation from a set point—is resisted through a physiological process that returns the body to homeostasis. (a) A negative feedback system has five basic parts. (b) Body temperature is regulated by negative feedback. In order to set the system in motion, a stimulus must drive a physiological parameter beyond its normal range (that is, beyond homeostasis). This stimulus is “heard” by a specific sensor. For example, in the control of blood glucose, specific endocrine cells in the pancreas detect excess glucose (the stimulus) in the bloodstream. These pancreatic beta cells respond to the increased level of blood glucose by releasing the hormone insulin into the bloodstream. The insulin signals skeletal muscle fibers, fat cells (adipocytes), and liver cells to take up the excess glucose, removing it from the bloodstream. As glucose concentration in the bloodstream drops, the decrease in concentration—the actual negative feedback—is detected by pancreatic alpha cells, and insulin release stops. This prevents blood sugar levels from continuing to drop below the normal range. Humans have a similar temperature regulation feedback system that works by promoting either heat loss or heat gain (Figure 1.10b). When the brain’s temperature regulation center receives data from the sensors indicating that the body’s temperature exceeds its normal range, it stimulates a cluster of brain cells referred to as the “heat-loss center.” This stimulation has three major
