Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


how the body being described is oriented, the terms are used as if it is in anatomical position. For example, a scar in the “anterior (front) carpal (wrist) region” would be present on the palm side of the wrist. The term “anterior” would be used even if the hand were palm down on a table. 24 1 • An Introduction to the Human Body FIGURE1.12 Regions of the Human Body The human body is shown in anatomical position in an (a) anterior view and a (b) posterior view. The regions of the body are labeled in boldface. A body that is lying down is described as either prone or supine.Pronedescribes a face-down orientation, and supinedescribes a face up orientation. These terms are sometimes used in describing the position of the body during specific physical examinations or surgical procedures. Regional Terms The human body’s numerous regions have specific terms to help increase precision (seeFigure 1.12). Notice that the term “brachium” or “arm” is reserved for the “upper arm” and “antebrachium” or “forearm” is used rather than “lower arm.” Similarly, “femur” or “thigh” is correct, and “leg” or “crus” is reserved for the portion of the lower limb between the knee and the ankle. You will be able to describe the body’s regions using the terms from the figure. Directional Terms Certain directional anatomical terms appear throughout this and any other anatomy textbook (Figure 1.13). These terms are essential for describing the relative locations of different body structures. For instance, an anatomist might describe one band of tissue as “inferior to” another or a physician might describe a tumor as “superficial to” a deeper body structure. Commit these terms to memory to avoid confusion when you are studying or describing the locations of particular body parts. • Anterior(orventral) Describes the front or direction toward the front of the body. The toes are anterior to the foot. • Posterior(ordorsal) Describes the back or direction toward the back of the body. The popliteus is posterior to the patella. • Superior(orcranial) describes a position above or higher than another part of the body proper. The orbits are superior to the oris. Access for free at openstax.org 1.6 • Anatomical Terminology 25 • Inferior(orcaudal) describes a position below or lower than another part of the body proper; near or toward the tail (in humans, the coccyx, or lowest part of the spinal column). The pelvis is
