Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


position below or lower than another part of the body proper; near or toward the tail (in humans, the coccyx, or lowest part of the spinal column). The pelvis is inferior to the abdomen. • Lateraldescribes the side or direction toward the side of the body. The thumb (pollex) is lateral to the digits. • Medialdescribes the middle or direction toward the middle of the body. The hallux is the medial toe. • Proximaldescribes a position in a limb that is nearer to the point of attachment or the trunk of the body. The brachium is proximal to the antebrachium. • Distaldescribes a position in a limb that is farther from the point of attachment or the trunk of the body. The crus is distal to the femur. • Superficialdescribes a position closer to the surface of the body. The skin is superficial to the bones. • Deepdescribes a position farther from the surface of the body. The brain is deep to the skull. FIGURE1.13 Directional Terms Applied to the Human Body Paired directional terms are shown as applied to the human body. Body Planes Asectionis a two-dimensional surface of a three-dimensional structure that has been cut. Modern medical imaging devices enable clinicians to obtain “virtual sections” of living bodies. We call these scans. Body sections and scans can be correctly interpreted, however, only if the viewer understands the plane along which the section was made. A planeis an imaginary two-dimensional surface that passes through the body. There are three planes commonly referred to in anatomy and medicine, as illustrated inFigure 1.14. • Thesagittal planeis the plane that divides the body or an organ vertically into right and left sides. If this vertical plane runs directly down the middle of the body, it is called the midsagittal or median plane. If it divides the body into unequal right and left sides, it is called a parasagittal plane or less commonly a longitudinal section. • Thefrontal planeis the plane that divides the body or an organ into an anterior (front) portion and a posterior (rear) portion. The frontal plane is often referred to as a coronal plane. (“Corona” is Latin for “crown.”) • Thetransverse planeis the plane that divides the body or organ horizontally into upper and lower portions. 26 1 • An Introduction to the Human Body Transverse planes produce images referred to as cross sections. FIGURE1.14 Planes of the
