Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


two-dimensional, vertical plane that ventral describes the front or direction toward the divides the body or organ into right and left sides front of the body; also referred to as anterior section in anatomy, a single flat surface of a three- ventral cavity larger body cavity located anterior to dimensional structure that has been cut through the posterior (dorsal) body cavity; includes the sensor (also, receptor) reports a monitored serous membrane-lined pleural cavities for the physiological value to the control center lungs, pericardial cavity for the heart, and peritoneal serosa membrane that covers organs and reduces cavity for the abdominal and pelvic organs; also friction; also referred to as serous membrane referred to as anterior body cavity serous membrane membrane that covers organs and X-ray form of high energy electromagnetic radiation reduces friction; also referred to as serosa with a short wavelength capable of penetrating set point ideal value for a physiological parameter; solids and ionizing gases; used in medicine as a the level or small range within which a physiological diagnostic aid to visualize body structures such as parameter such as blood pressure is stable and bones Chapter Review 1.1Overview of Anatomy and Physiology 1.2Structural Organization of the Human Body Human anatomy is the scientific study of the body’s structures. In the past, anatomy has primarily been Life processes of the human body are maintained at studied via observing injuries, and later by the several levels of structural organization. These include dissection of anatomical structures of cadavers, but in the chemical, cellular, tissue, organ, organ system, and the past century, computer-assisted imaging the organism level. Higher levels of organization are techniques have allowed clinicians to look inside the built from lower levels. Therefore, molecules combine living body. Human physiology is the scientific study of to form cells, cells combine to form tissues, tissues the chemistry and physics of the structures of the body. combine to form organs, organs combine to form organ Physiology explains how the structures of the body systems, and organ systems combine to form work together to maintain life. It is difficult to study organisms. structure (anatomy) without knowledge of function 1.3Functions of Human Life (physiology). The two disciplines are typically studied together because form and function are closely related Most processes that occur in the human body are not in all living things. 34 1 • Interactive Link Questions consciously controlled. They occur continuously to
