Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


function are closely related Most processes that occur in the human body are not in all living things. 34 1 • Interactive Link Questions consciously controlled. They occur continuously to response until an end point is reached. build, maintain, and sustain life. These processes 1.6Anatomical Terminology include: organization, in terms of the maintenance of essential body boundaries; metabolism, including Ancient Greek and Latin words are used to build energy transfer via anabolic and catabolic reactions; anatomical terms. A standard reference position for responsiveness; movement; and growth, mapping the body’s structures is the normal differentiation, reproduction, and renewal. anatomical position. Regions of the body are identified using terms such as “occipital” that are more precise 1.4Requirements for Human Life than common words and phrases such as “the back of Humans cannot survive for more than a few minutes the head.” Directional terms such as anterior and without oxygen, for more than several days without posterior are essential for accurately describing the water, and for more than several weeks without relative locations of body structures. Images of the carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, vitamins, and minerals. body’s interior commonly align along one of three Although the body can respond to high temperatures planes: the sagittal, frontal, or transverse. The body’s by sweating and to low temperatures by shivering and organs are organized in one of two main increased fuel consumption, long-term exposure to cavities—dorsal (also referred to posterior) and ventral extreme heat and cold is not compatible with survival. (also referred to anterior)—which are further sub- The body requires a precise atmospheric pressure to divided according to the structures present in each maintain its gases in solution and to facilitate area. The serous membranes have two layers—parietal respiration—the intake of oxygen and the release of and visceral—surrounding a fluid filled space. Serous carbon dioxide. Humans also require blood pressure membranes cover the lungs (pleural serosa), heart high enough to ensure that blood reaches all body (pericardial serosa), and some abdominopelvic organs tissues but low enough to avoid damage to blood (peritoneal serosa). vessels. 1.7Medical Imaging 1.5Homeostasis Detailed anatomical drawings of the human body first Homeostasis is the activity of cells throughout the body became available in the fifteenth and sixteenth to maintain the physiological state within a narrow centuries; however, it was not until the end of the range that is compatible with life. Homeostasis is nineteenth century, and the discovery of X-rays, that
