Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


state within a narrow centuries; however, it was not until the end of the range that is compatible with life. Homeostasis is nineteenth century, and the discovery of X-rays, that regulated by negative feedback loops and, much less anatomists and physicians discovered non-surgical frequently, by positive feedback loops. Both have the methods to look inside a living body. Since then, many same components of a stimulus, sensor, control center, other techniques, including CT scans, MRI scans, PET and effector; however, negative feedback loops work to scans, and ultrasonography, have been developed, prevent an excessive response to the stimulus, providing more accurate and detailed views of the form whereas positive feedback loops intensify the and function of the human body. Interactive Link Questions 1. View thisanimation( 3. A CT or CAT scan relies on a circling scanner that metabolic)to learn more about metabolic revolves around the patient’s body. Watch this processes. What kind of catabolism occurs in the video( learn more heart? about CT and CAT scans. What type of radiation 2. Water concentration in the body is critical for does a CT scanner use? proper functioning. A person’s body retains very 4. A patient undergoing an MRI is surrounded by a tight control on water levels without conscious tube-shaped scanner. Watch thisvideo control by the person. Watch thisvideo ( learn more about ( learn more about MRIs. What is the function of magnets in an MRI? water concentration in the body. Which organ has 5. PET relies on radioactive substances administered primary control over the amount of water in the several minutes before the scan. Watch thisvideo body? ( learn more about PET. How is PET used in chemotherapy? Access for free at openstax.org 1 • Review Questions 35 Review Questions 6. Which of the following specialties might focus on 13. Cancer cells can be characterized as “generic” studying all of the structures of the ankle and foot? cells that perform no specialized body function. a. microscopic anatomy Thus cancer cells lack ________. b. muscle anatomy a. differentiation c. regional anatomy b. reproduction d. systemic anatomy c. responsiveness d. both reproduction and responsiveness 7. A scientist wants to study how the body uses foods and fluids during a marathon run. This scientist is 14. Humans have the most urgent need for a most likely a(n) ________. continuous supply of ________. a. exercise physiologist a. food b. microscopic anatomist b. nitrogen
