Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Which of the following is an example of a normal 23. The heart is within the ________. physiologic process that uses a positive feedback a. cranial cavity loop? b. mediastinum a. blood pressure regulation c. posterior (dorsal) cavity b. childbirth d. All of the above c. regulation of fluid balance 24. In 1901, Wilhelm Röntgen was the first person to d. temperature regulation win the Nobel Prize for physics. For what discovery 20. What is the position of the body when it is in the did he win? “normal anatomical position?” a. nuclear physics a. The person is prone with upper limbs, b. radiopharmaceuticals including palms, touching sides and lower c. the link between radiation and cancer limbs touching at sides. d. X-rays b. The person is standing facing the observer, 25. Which of the following imaging techniques would with upper limbs extended out at a ninety- be best to use to study the uptake of nutrients by degree angle from the torso and lower limbs rapidly multiplying cancer cells? in a wide stance with feet pointing laterally a. CT c. The person is supine with upper limbs, b. MRI including palms, touching sides and lower c. PET limbs touching at sides. d. ultrasonography d. None of the above 26. Which of the following imaging studies can be 21. To make a banana split, you halve a banana into used most safely during pregnancy? two long, thin, right and left sides along the a. CT scans ________. b. PET scans a. coronal plane c. ultrasounds b. longitudinal plane d. X-rays c. midsagittal plane d. transverse plane 27. What are two major disadvantages of MRI scans? a. release of radiation and poor quality images 22. The lumbar region is ________. b. high cost and the need for shielding from the a. inferior to the gluteal region magnetic signals b. inferior to the umbilical region c. can only view metabolically active tissues and c. superior to the cervical region inadequate availability of equipment d. superior to the popliteal region d. release of radiation and the need for a patient to be confined to metal tube for up to 30 minutes Critical Thinking Questions 28. Name at least three reasons to study anatomy and 32. Explain why the smell of smoke when you are physiology. sitting at a campfire does not trigger alarm, but 29. For whom would an appreciation of the structural
