Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


and 32. Explain why the smell of smoke when you are physiology. sitting at a campfire does not trigger alarm, but 29. For whom would an appreciation of the structural the smell of smoke in your residence hall does. characteristics of the human heart come more 33. Identify three different ways that growth can easily: an alien who lands on Earth, abducts a occur in the human body. human, and dissects his heart, or an anatomy and 34. When you open a bottle of sparkling water, the physiology student performing a dissection of the carbon dioxide gas in the bottle form bubbles. If heart on her very first day of class? Why? the bottle is left open, the water will eventually 30. Name the six levels of organization of the human “go flat.” Explain these phenomena in terms of body. atmospheric pressure. 31. The and the testes are a part of which body 35. On his midsummer trek through the desert, Josh system? Can these organs be members of more ran out of water. Why is this particularly than one organ system? Why or why not? dangerous? Access for free at openstax.org 1 • Critical Thinking Questions 37 36. Identify the four components of a negative 39. If a bullet were to penetrate a lung, which three feedback loop and explain what would happen if anterior thoracic body cavities would it enter, and secretion of a body chemical controlled by a which layer of the serous membrane would it negative feedback system became too great. encounter first? 37. What regulatory processes would your body use if 40. Which medical imaging technique is most you were trapped by a blizzard in an unheated, dangerous to use repeatedly, and why? uninsulated cabin in the woods? 41. Explain why ultrasound imaging is the technique 38. In which direction would an MRI scanner move to of choice for studying fetal growth and produce sequential images of the body in the development. frontal plane, and in which direction would an MRI scanner move to produce sequential images of the body in the sagittal plane? 38 1 • Critical Thinking Questions Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 2 The Chemical Level of Organization Figure2.1 Human DNAHuman DNA is described as a double helix that resembles a molecular spiral staircase. In humans the DNA is organized into 46 chromosomes. CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will
