Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


your bones. Some other elements you might be familiar with are oxygen, sodium, and iron. The elements in the human body are shown inFigure 2.2, beginning with the most abundant: oxygen (O), carbon (C), hydrogen (H), and nitrogen (N). Each element’s name can be replaced by a one- or two-letter symbol; you will become familiar with some of these during this course. All the elements in your body are derived from the foods you eat and the air you breathe. FIGURE2.2 Elements of the Human Body The main elements that compose the human body are shown from most abundant to least abundant. Access for free at openstax.org 2.1 • Elements and Atoms: The Building Blocks of Matter 41 In nature, elements rarely occur alone. Instead, they combine to form compounds. Acompoundis a substance composed of two or more elements joined by chemical bonds. For example, the compound glucose is an important body fuel. It is always composed of the same three elements: carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Moreover, the elements that make up any given compound always occur in the same relative amounts. In glucose, there are always six carbon and six oxygen units for every twelve hydrogen units. But what, exactly, are these “units” of elements? Atoms and Subatomic Particles Anatomis the smallest quantity of an element that retains the unique properties of that element. In other words, an atom of hydrogen is a unit of hydrogen—the smallest amount of hydrogen that can exist. As you might guess, atoms are almost unfathomably small. The period at the end of this sentence is millions of atoms wide. Atomic Structure and Energy Atoms are made up of even smaller subatomic particles, three types of which are important: theproton,neutron, andelectron. The number of positively-charged protons and non-charged (“neutral”) neutrons, gives mass to the atom, and the number of protons determines the element. The number of negatively-charged electrons that “spin” around the nucleus at close to the speed of light equals the number of protons. An electron has about 1/2000th the mass of a proton or neutron. Figure 2.3shows two models that can help you imagine the structure of an atom—in this case, helium (He). In the planetary model, helium’s two electrons are shown circling the nucleus in a fixed orbit depicted as a ring. Although this model is helpful in visualizing atomic structure, in reality, electrons do not travel in fixed orbits, but
