Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


in the body, extremely high heat—such as a very high fever—can damage body cells and be life- threatening. On the other hand, normal body temperature is not high enough to promote the chemical reactions that sustain life. That is where catalysts come in. In chemistry, acatalystis a substance that increases the rate of a chemical reaction without itself undergoing any change. You can think of a catalyst as a chemical change agent. They help increase the rate and force at which atoms, ions, and molecules collide, thereby increasing the probability that their valence shell electrons will interact. The most important catalysts in the human body are enzymes. Anenzymeis a catalyst composed of protein or ribonucleic acid (RNA), both of which will be discussed later in this chapter. Like all catalysts, enzymes work by lowering the level of energy that needs to be invested in a chemical reaction. A chemical reaction’sactivation energyis the “threshold” level of energy needed to break the bonds in the reactants. Once those bonds are broken, new arrangements can form. Without an enzyme to act as a catalyst, a much larger investment of energy is needed to ignite a chemical reaction (Figure 2.13). FIGURE2.13 Enzymes Enzymes decrease the activation energy required for a given chemical reaction to occur. (a) Without an enzyme, the energy input needed for a reaction to begin is high. (b) With the help of an enzyme, less energy is needed for a reaction to begin. Enzymes are critical to the body’s healthy functioning. They assist, for example, with the breakdown of food and its conversion to energy. In fact, most of the chemical reactions in the body are facilitated by enzymes. 2.4 Inorganic Compounds Essential to Human Functioning LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Compare and contrast inorganic and organic compounds • Identify the properties of water that make it essential to life • Explain the role of salts in body functioning • Distinguish between acids and bases, and explain their role in pH • Discuss the role of buffers in helping the body maintain pH homeostasis Access for free at openstax.org 2.4 • Inorganic Compounds Essential to Human Functioning 55 The concepts you have learned so far in this chapter govern all forms of matter, and would work as a foundation for geology as well as biology. This section of the chapter narrows the
