Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


to participate in chemical reactions. Strong acids are compounds that release all of their H+in solution; that is, they ionize completely. Hydrochloric acid (HCl), which is released from cells in the lining of the stomach, is a strong acid because it releases all of its H+in the stomach’s watery environment. This strong acid aids in digestion and kills ingested microbes. Weak acids do not ionize completely; that is, some of their hydrogenionsremain bonded within a compound in solution. An example of a weak acid is vinegar, or acetic acid; it is called acetate after it gives up a proton. Access for free at openstax.org 2.4 • Inorganic Compounds Essential to Human Functioning 59 FIGURE2.16 Acids and Bases (a) In aqueous solution, an acid dissociates into hydrogen ions (H+) and anions. Nearly every molecule of a strong acid dissociates, producing a high concentration of H+. (b) In aqueous solution, a base dissociates into hydroxyl ions (OH–) and cations. Nearly every molecule of a strong base dissociates, producing a high concentration of OH–. Bases Abaseis a substance that releases hydroxyl ions (OH–) in solution, or one that accepts H+already present in solution (seeFigure 2.16b). The hydroxyl ions (also known as hydroxide ions) or other basic substances combine with H+present to form a water molecule, thereby removing H+and reducing the solution’s acidity. Strong bases release most or all of their hydroxyl ions; weak bases release only some hydroxyl ions or absorb only a few H+. Food mixed with hydrochloric acid from the stomach would burn the small intestine, the next portion of the digestive tract after the stomach, if it were not for the release of bicarbonate (HCO –), a weak base that attracts H+. Bicarbonate 3 accepts some of the H+protons, thereby reducing the acidity of the solution. The Concept of pH The relative acidity or alkalinity of a solution can be indicated by its pH. A solution’spHis the negative, base-10 logarithm of the hydrogen ion (H+) concentration of the solution. As an example, a pH 4 solution has an H+ concentration that is ten times greater than that of a pH 5 solution. That is, a solution with a pH of 4 is ten times more acidic than a solution with a pH of 5. The concept of pH will begin to make more sense when you study the pH scale, like that shown inFigure 2.17. The scale consists of a
