Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


pH rises above 7.45, the buffer will act as a weak acid and contribute hydrogen ions. Access for free at openstax.org 2.5 • Organic Compounds Essential to Human Functioning 61 HOMEOSTATIC IMBALANCES Acids and Bases Excessive acidity of the blood and other body fluids is known as acidosis. Common causes of acidosis are situations and disorders that reduce the effectiveness of breathing, especially the person’s ability to exhale fully, which causes a buildup of CO (and H+) in the bloodstream. Acidosis can also be caused by metabolic problems that reduce the 2 level or function of buffers that act as bases, or that promote the production of acids. For instance, with severe diarrhea, too much bicarbonate can be lost from the body, allowing acids to build up in body fluids. In people with poorly managed diabetes (ineffective regulation of blood sugar), acids called ketones are produced as a form of body fuel. These can build up in the blood, causing a serious condition called diabetic ketoacidosis. Kidney failure, liver failure, heart failure, cancer, and other disorders also can prompt metabolic acidosis. In contrast, alkalosis is a condition in which the blood and other body fluids are too alkaline (basic). As with acidosis, respiratory disorders are a major cause; however, in respiratory alkalosis, carbon dioxide levels fall too low. Lung disease, aspirin overdose, shock, and ordinary anxiety can cause respiratory alkalosis, which reduces the normal concentration of H+. Metabolic alkalosis often results from prolonged, severe vomiting, which causes a loss of hydrogen and chloride ions (as components of HCl). Medications also can prompt alkalosis. These include diuretics that cause the body to lose potassium ions, as well as antacids when taken in excessive amounts, for instance by someone with persistent heartburn or an ulcer. 2.5 Organic Compounds Essential to Human Functioning LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Identify four types of organic molecules essential to human functioning • Explain the chemistry behind carbon’s affinity for covalently bonding in organic compounds • Provide examples of three types of carbohydrates, and identify the primary functions of carbohydrates in the body • Discuss four types of lipids important in human functioning • Describe the structure of proteins, and discuss their importance to human functioning • Identify the building blocks of nucleic acids, and the roles of DNA, RNA, and ATP in human functioning Organic compounds typically
