Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


2.1). Functional Groups Important in Human Physiology Functional Structural Importance group formula Hydroxyl groups are polar. They are components of all four types of organic Hydroxyl —O—H compounds discussed in this chapter. They are involved in dehydration synthesis and hydrolysis reactions. Carboxyl groups are found within fatty acids, amino acids, and many other Carboxyl acids. Amino —N—H Amino groups are found within amino acids, the building blocks of proteins. 2 Methyl —C—H Methyl groups are found within amino acids. 3 Phosphate —P—O 2– Phosphate groups are found within phospholipids and nucleotides. 4 TABLE2.1 Carbon’s affinity for covalent bonding means that many distinct and relatively stable organic molecules nevertheless readily form larger, more complex molecules. Any large molecule is referred to asmacromolecule(macro- = “large”), and the organic compounds in this section all fit this description. However, some macromolecules are made up of several “copies” of single units called monomer (mono- = “one”; -mer = “part”). Like beads in a long necklace, these monomers link by covalent bonds to form long polymers (poly- = “many”). There are many examples of monomers and polymers among the organic compounds. Monomers form polymers by engaging in dehydration synthesis (seeFigure 2.14). As was noted earlier, this reaction results in the release of a molecule of water. Each monomer contributes: One gives up a hydrogen atom and the other gives up a hydroxyl group. Polymers are split into monomers by hydrolysis (-lysis = “rupture”). The bonds between their monomers are broken, via the donation of a molecule of water, which contributes a hydrogen atom to one monomer and a hydroxyl group to the other. Carbohydrates The term carbohydrate means “hydrated carbon.” Recall that the root hydro- indicates water. Acarbohydrateis a molecule composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen; in most carbohydrates, hydrogen and oxygen are found in the same two-to-one relative proportions they have in water. In fact, the chemical formula for a “generic” molecule of carbohydrate is (CH O) . 2 n Carbohydrates are referred to as saccharides, a word meaning “sugars.” Three forms are important in the body. Monosaccharides are the monomers of carbohydrates. Disaccharides (di- = “two”) are made up of two monomers. Polysaccharidesare the polymers, and can consist of hundreds to thousands of monomers. Monosaccharides Amonosaccharideis a monomer of carbohydrates. Five monosaccharides are important in the body. Three of these are the hexose sugars, so called because they each contain six atoms of carbon.
