Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Monosaccharides Amonosaccharideis a monomer of carbohydrates. Five monosaccharides are important in the body. Three of these are the hexose sugars, so called because they each contain six atoms of carbon. These are glucose, fructose, and galactose, shown inFigure 2.18a. The remaining monosaccharides are the two pentose sugars, each of which contains five atoms of carbon. They are ribose and deoxyribose, shown inFigure 2.18b. Access for free at openstax.org 2.5 • Organic Compounds Essential to Human Functioning 63 FIGURE2.18 Five Important Monosaccharides Disaccharides Adisaccharideis a pair of monosaccharides. Disaccharides are formed via dehydration synthesis, and the bond linking them is referred to as a glycosidic bond (glyco- = “sugar”). Three disaccharides (shown inFigure 2.19) are important to humans. These are sucrose, commonly referred to as table sugar; lactose, or milk sugar; and maltose, or malt sugar. As you can tell from their common names, you consume these in your diet; however, your body cannot use them directly. Instead, in the digestive tract, they are split into their component monosaccharides via hydrolysis. 64 2 • The Chemical Level of Organization FIGURE2.19 Three Important Disaccharides All three important disaccharides form by dehydration synthesis. INTERACTIVE LINK Watch thisvideo( observe the formation of a disaccharide. What happens when water encounters a glycosidic bond? Polysaccharides Polysaccharides can contain a few to a thousand or more monosaccharides. Three are important to the body (Figure 2.20): • Starches are polymers of glucose. They occur in long chains called amylose or branched chains called amylopectin, both of which are stored in plant-based foods and are relatively easy to digest. Access for free at openstax.org 2.5 • Organic Compounds Essential to Human Functioning 65 • Glycogen is also a polymer of glucose, but it is stored in the tissues of animals, especially in the muscles and liver. It is not considered a dietary carbohydrate because very little glycogen remains in animal tissues after slaughter; however, the human body stores excess glucose as glycogen, again, in the muscles and liver. • Cellulose, a polysaccharide that is the primary component of the cell wall of green plants, is the component of plant food referred to as “fiber”. In humans, cellulose/fiber is not digestible; however, dietary fiber has many health benefits. It helps you feel full so you eat less, it promotes a healthy digestive tract, and a diet high in fiber is thought to reduce the risk of heart disease and possibly
