Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


nucleotide adenosine triphosphate (ATP), is composed of a ribose sugar, an adenine base, and three phosphate groups (Figure 2.30). ATP is classified as a high energy compound because the two covalent bonds linking its three phosphates store a significant amount of potential energy. In the body, the energy released from these high energy bonds helps fuel the body’s activities, from muscle contraction to the transport of substances in and out of cells to anabolic chemical reactions. 74 2 • The Chemical Level of Organization FIGURE2.30 Structure of Adenosine Triphosphate (ATP) When a phosphate group is cleaved from ATP, the products are adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and inorganic phosphate (P). This hydrolysis reaction can be written: i Removal of a second phosphate leaves adenosine monophosphate (AMP) and two phosphate groups. Again, these reactions also liberate the energy that had been stored in the phosphate-phosphate bonds. They are reversible, too, as when ADP undergoes phosphorylation.Phosphorylationis the addition of a phosphate group to an organic compound, in this case, resulting in ATP. In such cases, the same level of energy that had been released during hydrolysis must be reinvested to power dehydration synthesis. Cells can also transfer a phosphate group from ATP to another organic compound. For example, when glucose first enters a cell, a phosphate group is transferred from ATP, forming glucose phosphate (C H O —P) and ADP. Once 6 12 6 glucose is phosphorylated in this way, it can be stored as glycogen or metabolized for immediate energy. Access for free at openstax.org 2 • Key Terms 75 Key Terms acid compound that releases hydrogen ions (H+) in disulfide bond covalent bond formed within a solution polypeptide between sulfide groups of sulfur- activation energy amount of energy greater than the containing amino acids, for example, cysteine energy contained in the reactants, which must be electron subatomic particle having a negative charge overcome for a reaction to proceed and nearly no mass; found orbiting the atom’s adenosine triphosphate (ATP) nucleotide containing nucleus ribose and an adenine base that is essential in electron shell area of space a given distance from an energy transfer atom’s nucleus in which electrons are grouped amino acid building block of proteins; characterized element substance that cannot be created or broken by an amino and carboxyl functional groups and a down by ordinary chemical means variable side-chain enzyme protein or RNA that catalyzes chemical anion atom with a
