Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


compound consisting of more than steroid (also, sterol) lipid compound composed of two carbohydrate monomers bonded by four hydrocarbon rings bonded to a variety of other dehydration synthesis via glycosidic bonds atoms and molecules potential energy stored energy matter possesses substrate reactant in an enzymatic reaction because of the positioning or structure of its suspension liquid mixture in which particles components distributed in the liquid settle out over time product one or more substances produced by a synthesis reaction type of anabolic reaction in which chemical reaction two or more atoms or molecules bond, resulting in prostaglandin lipid compound derived from fatty acid the formation of a larger molecule chains and important in regulating several body triglyceride lipid compound composed of a glycerol processes molecule bonded with three fatty acid chains protein class of organic compounds that are valence shell outermost electron shell of an atom Chapter Review 2.1Elements and Atoms: The Building with other atoms is largely due to the behavior of the Blocks of Matter electrons within the atom’s outermost electron shell, called its valence shell. Helium, as well as larger atoms The human body is composed of elements, the most with eight electrons in their valence shell, is unlikely to abundant of which are oxygen (O), carbon (C), participate in chemical reactions because they are hydrogen (H) and nitrogen (N). You obtain these stable. All other atoms tend to accept, donate, or share elements from the foods you eat and the air you electrons in a process that brings the electrons in their breathe. The smallest unit of an element that retains all valence shell to eight (or in the case of hydrogen, to of the properties of that element is an atom. But, two). atoms themselves contain many subatomic particles, the three most important of which are protons, 2.2Chemical Bonds neutrons, and electrons. These particles do not vary in Each moment of life, atoms of oxygen, carbon, quality from one element to another; rather, what gives hydrogen, and the other elements of the human body an element its distinctive identification is the quantity are making and breaking chemical bonds. Ions are of its protons, called its atomic number. Protons and charged atoms that form when an atom donates or neutrons contribute nearly all of an atom’s mass; the accepts one or more negatively charged electrons. number of protons and neutrons is an element’s mass Cations (ions
