Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


atom donates or neutrons contribute nearly all of an atom’s mass; the accepts one or more negatively charged electrons. number of protons and neutrons is an element’s mass Cations (ions with a positive charge) are attracted to number. Heavier and lighter versions of the same anions (ions with a negative charge). This attraction is element can occur in nature because these versions called an ionic bond. In covalent bonds, the have different numbers of neutrons. Different versions participating atoms do not lose or gain electrons, but of an element are called isotopes. rather share them. Molecules with nonpolar covalent The tendency of an atom to be stable or to react readily bonds are electrically balanced, and have a linear Access for free at openstax.org 2 • Chapter Review 77 three-dimensional shape. Molecules with polar The pH of any solution is its relative concentration of covalent bonds have “poles”—regions of weakly H+. A solution with pH 7 is neutral. Solutions with pH positive and negative charge—and have a triangular below 7 are acids, and solutions with pH above 7 are three-dimensional shape. An atom of oxygen and two bases. A change in a single digit on the pH scale (e.g., atoms of hydrogen form water molecules by means of from 7 to 8) represents a ten-fold increase or decrease polar covalent bonds. Hydrogen bonds link hydrogen in the concentration of H+. In a healthy adult, the pH of atoms already participating in polar covalent bonds to blood ranges from 7.35 to 7.45. Homeostatic control anions or electronegative regions of other polar mechanisms important for keeping blood in a healthy molecules. Hydrogen bonds link water molecules, pH range include chemicals called buffers, weak acids resulting in the properties of water that are important and weak bases released when the pH of blood or to living things. other body fluids fluctuates in either direction outside of this normal range. 2.3Chemical Reactions 2.5Organic Compounds Essential to Human Chemical reactions, in which chemical bonds are Functioning broken and formed, require an initial investment of energy. Kinetic energy, the energy of matter in motion, Organic compounds essential to human functioning fuels the collisions of atoms, ions, and molecules that include carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and are necessary if their old bonds are to break and new nucleotides. These compounds are said to be organic ones to form. All molecules store potential energy, because they contain both carbon
