Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


if their old bonds are to break and new nucleotides. These compounds are said to be organic ones to form. All molecules store potential energy, because they contain both carbon and hydrogen. which is released when their bonds are broken. Carbon atoms in organic compounds readily share electrons with hydrogen and other atoms, usually Four forms of energy essential to human functioning oxygen, and sometimes nitrogen. Carbon atoms also are: chemical energy, which is stored and released as may bond with one or more functional groups such as chemical bonds are formed and broken; mechanical carboxyls, hydroxyls, aminos, or phosphates. energy, which directly powers physical activity; radiant Monomers are single units of organic compounds. They energy, emitted as waves such as in sunlight; and bond by dehydration synthesis to form polymers, which electrical energy, the power of moving electrons. can in turn be broken by hydrolysis. Chemical reactions begin with reactants and end with Carbohydrate compounds provide essential body fuel. products. Synthesis reactions bond reactants together, Their structural forms include monosaccharides such a process that requires energy, whereas decomposition as glucose, disaccharides such as lactose, and reactions break the bonds within a reactant and polysaccharides, including starches (polymers of thereby release energy. In exchange reactions, bonds glucose), glycogen (the storage form of glucose), and are both broken and formed, and energy is exchanged. fiber. All body cells can use glucose for fuel. It is The rate at which chemical reactions occur is converted via an oxidation-reduction reaction to ATP. influenced by several properties of the reactants: Lipids are hydrophobic compounds that provide body temperature, concentration and pressure, and the fuel and are important components of many biological presence or absence of a catalyst. An enzyme is a compounds. Triglycerides are the most abundant lipid catalytic protein that speeds up chemical reactions in in the body, and are composed of a glycerol backbone the human body. attached to three fatty acid chains. Phospholipids are 2.4Inorganic Compounds Essential to compounds composed of a diglyceride with a Human Functioning phosphate group attached at the molecule’s head. The result is a molecule with polar and nonpolar regions. Inorganic compounds essential to human functioning Steroids are lipids formed of four hydrocarbon rings. include water, salts, acids, and bases. These The most important is cholesterol. Prostaglandins are compounds are inorganic; that is, they do not contain signaling molecules derived from unsaturated fatty both hydrogen and carbon.
