Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


acids, and bases. These The most important is cholesterol. Prostaglandins are compounds are inorganic; that is, they do not contain signaling molecules derived from unsaturated fatty both hydrogen and carbon. Water is a lubricant and acids. cushion, a heat sink, a component of liquid mixtures, a byproduct of dehydration synthesis reactions, and a Proteins are critical components of all body tissues. reactant in hydrolysis reactions. Salts are compounds They are made up of monomers called amino acids, that, when dissolved in water, dissociate into ions other which contain nitrogen, joined by peptide bonds. than H+or OH–. In contrast, acids release H+in Protein shape is critical to its function. Most body solution, making it more acidic. Bases accept H+, proteins are globular. An example is enzymes, which thereby making the solution more alkaline (caustic). catalyze chemical reactions. 78 2 • Interactive Link Questions Nucleotides are compounds with three building blocks: body’s fundamental molecule of energy transfer. one or more phosphate groups, a pentose sugar, and a Removal or addition of phosphates releases or invests nitrogen-containing base. DNA and RNA are nucleic energy. acids that function in protein synthesis. ATP is the Interactive Link Questions 1. Visit thiswebsite( 2. Visit thiswebsite( view the periodic table. In the periodic table of the electenergy)to learn about electrical energy and elements, elements in a single column have the the attraction/repulsion of charges. What happens same number of electrons that can participate in a to the charged electroscope when a conductor is chemical reaction. These electrons are known as moved between its plastic sheets, and why? “valence electrons.” For example, the elements in 3. Watch thisvideo( the first column all have a single valence disaccharide)to observe the formation of a electron—an electron that can be “donated” in a disaccharide. What happens when water chemical reaction with another atom. What is the encounters a glycosidic bond? meaning of a mass number shown in parentheses? Review Questions 4. Together, just four elements make up more than 95 9. Which of the following is a molecule, butnota percent of the body’s mass. These include compound? ________. a. H O 2 a. calcium, magnesium, iron, and carbon b. 2H b. oxygen, calcium, iron, and nitrogen c. H 2 c. sodium, chlorine, carbon, and hydrogen d. H+ d. oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, and nitrogen 10. A molecule of ammonia contains one atom of 5. The smallest unit of an element that still
