Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


an intravenous solution of 4 molecules found in nature. Are the bonds between bicarbonate. Why? the atoms ionic or covalent? 43. If the disaccharide maltose is formed from two 37. In a hurry one day, you merely rinse your lunch glucose monosaccharides, which are hexose dishes with water. As you are drying your salad sugars, how many atoms of carbon, hydrogen, and bowl, you notice that it still has an oily film. Why oxygen does maltose contain and why? was the water alone not effective in cleaning the 44. Once dietary fats are digested and absorbed, why bowl? can they not be released directly into the 38. Could two atoms of oxygen engage in ionic bloodstream? bonding? Why or why not? Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 3 The Cellular Level of Organization Figure3.1 Fluorescence-stained Cell Undergoing MitosisA lung cell from a newt, commonly studied for its similarity to human lung cells, is stained with fluorescent dyes. The green stain reveals mitotic spindles, red is the cell membrane and part of the cytoplasm, and the structures that appear light blue are chromosomes. This cell is in anaphase of mitosis. (credit: “Mortadelo2005”/Wikimedia Commons) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Describe the structure and function of the cell membrane, including its regulation of materials into and out of the cell • Describe the functions of the various cytoplasmic organelles • Explain the structure and contents of the nucleus, as well as the process of DNA replication • Explain the process by which a cell builds proteins using the DNA code • List the stages of the cell cycle in order, including the steps of cell division in somatic cells • Discuss how a cell differentiates and becomes more specialized • List the morphological and physiological characteristics of some representative cell types in the human body INTRODUCTION You developed from a single fertilized egg cell into the complex organism containing trillions of cells that you see when you look in a mirror. During this developmental process, early, undifferentiated cells differentiate and become specialized in their structure and function. These different cell types form specialized tissues that work in concert to perform all of the functions necessary for the living organism. Cellular and developmental biologists study how the continued division of a single cell leads to such complexity and differentiation. Consider the difference between a structural cell in
