Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


three-base sequence of mRNA, so-called because they directly encode amino acids. Like DNA replication, there are three stages to transcription: initiation, elongation, and termination. FIGURE3.26 Transcription: from DNA to mRNA In the first of the two stages of making protein from DNA, a gene on the DNA molecule is transcribed into a complementary mRNA molecule. Stage 1: Initiation.A region at the beginning of the gene called apromoter—a particular sequence of nucleotides—triggers the start of transcription. Stage 2: Elongation.Transcription starts when RNA polymerase unwinds the DNA segment. One strand, referred to as the coding strand, becomes the template with the genes to be coded. The polymerase then aligns the correct nucleic acid (A, C, G, or U) with its complementary base on the coding strand of DNA.RNA polymeraseis an enzyme that adds new nucleotides to a growing strand of RNA. This process builds a strand of mRNA. Stage 3: Termination.At the end of the gene, a sequence of nucleotides called the terminator sequence causes the new RNA to fold up on itself. This fold causes the RNA to separate from the gene and from RNA polymerase, ending transcription. Before the mRNA molecule leaves the nucleus and proceeds to protein synthesis, it is modified in a number of ways. For this reason, it is often called a pre-mRNA at this stage. For example, your DNA, and thus complementary mRNA, contains long regions called non-coding regions that do not code for amino acids. Their function is still a mystery, but the process calledsplicingremoves these non-coding regions from the pre-mRNA transcript (Figure 3.27). A spliceosome—a structure composed of various proteins and other molecules—attaches to the mRNA and “splices” or cuts out the non-coding regions. The removed segment of the transcript is called anintron. The remaining exons are pasted together. Anexonis a segment of RNA that remains after splicing. Interestingly, some introns that are removed from mRNA are not always non-coding. When different coding regions of mRNA are spliced out, different variations of the protein will eventually result, with differences in structure and function. This process results in a much larger variety of possible proteins and protein functions. When the mRNA transcript is ready, it travels out of the nucleus and into the cytoplasm. Access for free at openstax.org 3.4 • Protein Synthesis 105 FIGURE3.27 Splicing DNA In the nucleus, a structure called a spliceosome cuts out introns (noncoding regions) within a pre-mRNA transcript and
