Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


efficiency of protein synthesis. A single ribosome might translate an mRNA molecule in approximately one minute; so multiple ribosomes aboard a single transcript could produce multiple times the number of the same protein in the same minute. Apolyribosomeis a string of ribosomes translating a single mRNA strand. INTERACTIVE LINK Watch thisvideo( learn about ribosomes. The ribosome binds to the mRNA molecule to start translation of its code into a protein. What happens to the small and large ribosomal subunits at the end of translation? 3.5 Cell Growth and Division LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the stages of the cell cycle • Discuss how the cell cycle is regulated • Describe the implications of losing control over the cell cycle • Describe the stages of mitosis and cytokinesis, in order So far in this chapter, you have read numerous times of the importance and prevalence of cell division. While there are a few cells in the body that do not undergo cell division (such as gametes, red blood cells, most neurons, and some muscle cells), most somatic cells divide regularly. Asomatic cellis a general term for a body cell, and all human cells, except for the cells that produce eggs and sperm (which are referred to as germ cells), are somatic cells. Somatic cells containtwocopies of each of their chromosomes (one copy received from each parent). A homologouspair of chromosomes is the two copies of a single chromosome found in each somatic cell. The human is adiploidorganism, having 23 homologous pairs of chromosomes in each of the somatic cells. The condition of having pairs of chromosomes is known as diploidy. Cells in the body replace themselves over the lifetime of a person. For example, the cells lining the gastrointestinal tract must be frequently replaced when constantly “worn off” by the movement of food through the gut. But what triggers a cell to divide, and how does it prepare for and complete cell division? Thecell cycleis the sequence of events in the life of the cell from the moment it is created at the end of a previous cycle of cell division until it then divides itself, generating two new cells. 108 3 • The Cellular Level of Organization The Cell Cycle One “turn” or cycle of the cell cycle consists of two general phases: interphase, followed by mitosis and cytokinesis. Interphaseis
