Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


3 • The Cellular Level of Organization The Cell Cycle One “turn” or cycle of the cell cycle consists of two general phases: interphase, followed by mitosis and cytokinesis. Interphaseis the period of the cell cycle during which the cell is not dividing. The majority of cells are in interphase most of the time.Mitosisis the division of genetic material, during which the cell nucleus breaks down and two new, fully functional, nuclei are formed.Cytokinesisdivides the cytoplasm into two distinctive cells. Interphase A cell grows and carries out all normal metabolic functions and processes in a period called G (Figure 3.30).G 1 1 phase(gap 1 phase) is the first gap, or growth phase in the cell cycle. For cells that will divide again, G is followed 1 by replication of the DNA, during the S phase. TheS phase(synthesis phase) is period during which a cell replicates its DNA. FIGURE3.30 Cell Cycle The two major phases of the cell cycle include mitosis (designated M), when the cell divides, and interphase, when the cell grows and performs all of its normal functions. Interphase is further subdivided into G1, S, and G2phases. After the synthesis phase, the cell proceeds through the G phase. TheG phaseis a second gap phase, during 2 2 which the cell continues to grow and makes the necessary preparations for mitosis. Between G , S, and G phases, 1 2 cells will vary the most in their duration of the G1 phase. It is here that a cell might spend a couple of hours, or many days. The S phase typically lasts between 8-10 hours and the G phase approximately 5 hours. In contrast to these 2 phases, theG phaseis a resting phase of the cell cycle. Cells that have temporarily stopped dividing and are resting 0 (a common condition) and cells that have permanently ceased dividing (like nerve cells) are said to be in G . 0 The Structure of Chromosomes Billions of cells in the human body divide every day. During the synthesis phase (S, for DNA synthesis) of interphase, the amount of DNA within the cell precisely doubles. Therefore, after DNA replication but before cell division, each cell actually containstwocopies of each chromosome. Each copy of the chromosome is referred to as asister chromatidand is physically bound to the other copy.(Note that the term "sister chromatid" is used regardless of the sex of the person.) Thecentromereis the
