Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


chromosome is referred to as asister chromatidand is physically bound to the other copy.(Note that the term "sister chromatid" is used regardless of the sex of the person.) Thecentromereis the structure that attaches one sister chromatid to another. Because a human cell has 46 chromosomes, during this phase, there are 92 chromatids (46 × 2) in the cell. Make sure not to confuse the concept of a pair of chromatids (one chromosome and its exact copy attached during mitosis) and a homologous pair of chromosomes (two paired chromosomes which were inherited separately, one from each parent) (Figure 3.31). Access for free at openstax.org 3.5 • Cell Growth and Division 109 FIGURE3.31 A Homologous Pair of Chromosomes with their Attached Sister Chromatids The red and blue colors correspond to a homologous pair of chromosomes. Each member of the pair was separately inherited from one parent. Each chromosome in the homologous pair is also bound to an identical sister chromatid, which is produced by DNA replication, and results in the familiar “X” shape. Mitosis and Cytokinesis Themitotic phaseof the cell typically takes between 1 and 2 hours. During this phase, a cell undergoes two major processes. First, it completes mitosis, during which the contents of the nucleus are equitably pulled apart and distributed between its two halves. Cytokinesis then occurs, dividing the cytoplasm and cell body into two new cells. Mitosis is divided into four major stages that take place after interphase (Figure 3.32) and in the following order: prophase, metaphase, anaphase, and telophase. The process is then followed by cytokinesis. FIGURE3.32 Cell Division: Mitosis Followed by Cytokinesis The stages of cell division oversee the separation of identical genetic material into two new nuclei, followed by the division of the cytoplasm. 110 3 • The Cellular Level of Organization Prophaseis the first phase of mitosis, during which the loosely packed chromatin coils and condenses into visible chromosomes. During prophase, each chromosome becomes visible with its identical partner attached, forming the familiar X-shape of sister chromatids. The nucleolus disappears early during this phase, and the nuclear envelope also disintegrates. A major occurrence during prophase concerns a very important structure that contains the origin site for microtubule growth. Recall the cellular structures called centrioles that serve as origin points from which microtubules extend. These tiny structures also play a very important role during mitosis. Acentrosomeis a pair of centrioles together. The cell contains two
