Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


composed of a requiring) or active (energy-requiring) transport phospholipid bilayer, with hydrophobic internal lipid processes. During passive transport, materials move by “tails” and hydrophilic external phosphate “heads.” simple diffusion or by facilitated diffusion through the Various membrane proteins are scattered throughout membrane, down their concentration gradient. Water the bilayer, both inserted within it and attached to it Access for free at openstax.org 3 • Chapter Review 119 passes through the membrane in a diffusion process by-side. This nuclear envelope is studded with protein- called osmosis. During active transport, energy is lined pores that allow materials to be trafficked into expended to assist material movement across the and out of the nucleus. The nucleus contains one or membrane in a direction against their concentration more nucleoli, which serve as sites for ribosome gradient. Active transport may take place with the help synthesis. The nucleus houses the genetic material of of protein pumps or through the use of vesicles. the cell: DNA. DNA is normally found as a loosely contained structure called chromatin within the 3.2The Cytoplasm and Cellular Organelles nucleus, where it is wound up and associated with a The internal environmental of a living cell is made up of variety of histone proteins. When a cell is about to a fluid, jelly-like substance called cytosol, which divide, the chromatin coils tightly and condenses to consists mainly of water, but also contains various form chromosomes. dissolved nutrients and other molecules. The cell There is a pool of cells constantly dividing within your contains an array of cellular organelles, each one body. The result is billions of new cells being created performing a unique function and helping to maintain each day. Before any cell is ready to divide, it must the health and activity of the cell. The cytosol and replicate its DNA so that each new daughter cell will organelles together compose the cell’s cytoplasm. receive an exact copy of the organism’s genome. A Most organelles are surrounded by a lipid membrane variety of enzymes are enlisted during DNA replication. similar to the cell membrane of the cell. The These enzymes unwind the DNA molecule, separate endoplasmic reticulum (ER), Golgi apparatus, and the two strands, and assist with the building of lysosomes share a functional connectivity and are complementary strands along each parent strand. The collectively referred to as the endomembrane system. original DNA strands serve as templates from which There
