Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


lysosomes share a functional connectivity and are complementary strands along each parent strand. The collectively referred to as the endomembrane system. original DNA strands serve as templates from which There are two types of ER: smooth and rough. While the nucleotide sequence of the new strands are the smooth ER performs many functions, including lipid determined and synthesized. When replication is synthesis and ion storage, the rough ER is mainly completed, two identical DNA molecules exist. Each responsible for protein synthesis using its associated one contains one original strand and one newly ribosomes. The rough ER sends newly made proteins synthesized complementary strand. to the Golgi apparatus where they are modified and packaged for delivery to various locations within or 3.4Protein Synthesis outside of the cell. Some of these protein products are DNA stores the information necessary for instructing enzymes destined to break down unwanted material the cell to perform all of its functions. Cells use the and are packaged as lysosomes for use inside the cell. genetic code stored within DNA to build proteins, Cells also contain mitochondria and peroxisomes, which ultimately determine the structure and function which are the organelles responsible for producing the of the cell. This genetic code lies in the particular cell’s energy supply and detoxifying certain chemicals, sequence of nucleotides that make up each gene along respectively. Biochemical reactions within the DNA molecule. To “read” this code, the cell must mitochondria transform energy-carrying molecules into perform two sequential steps. In the first step, the usable form of cellular energy known as ATP. transcription, the DNA code is converted into an RNA Peroxisomes contain enzymes that transform harmful code. A molecule of messenger RNA that is substances such as free radicals into oxygen and water. complementary to a specific gene is synthesized in a Cells also contain a miniaturized “skeleton” of protein process similar to DNA replication. The molecule of filaments that extend throughout its interior. Three mRNA provides the code to synthesize a protein. In the different kinds of filaments compose this cytoskeleton process of translation, the mRNA attaches to a (in order of increasing thickness): microfilaments, ribosome. Next, tRNA molecules shuttle the intermediate filaments, and microtubules. Each appropriate amino acids to the ribosome, one-by-one, cytoskeletal component performs unique functions as coded by sequential triplet codons on the mRNA, until well as provides a supportive framework for the cell. the protein is fully synthesized.
