Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


one-by-one, cytoskeletal component performs unique functions as coded by sequential triplet codons on the mRNA, until well as provides a supportive framework for the cell. the protein is fully synthesized. When completed, the mRNA detaches from the ribosome, and the protein is 3.3The Nucleus and DNA Replication released. Typically, multiple ribosomes attach to a The nucleus is the command center of the cell, single mRNA molecule at once such that multiple containing the genetic instructions for all of the proteins can be manufactured from the mRNA materials a cell will make (and thus all of its functions it concurrently. can perform). The nucleus is encased within a membrane of two interconnected lipid bilayers, side- 120 3 • Interactive Link Questions 3.5Cell Growth and Division 3.6Cellular Differentiation The life of cell consists of stages that make up the cell One of the major areas of research in biology is that of cycle. After a cell is born, it passes through an how cells specialize to assume their unique structures interphase before it is ready to replicate itself and and functions, since all cells essentially originate from produce daughter cells. This interphase includes two a single fertilized egg. Cell differentiation is the process gap phases (G and G ), as well as an S phase, during of cells becoming specialized as they body develops. A 1 2 which its DNA is replicated in preparation for cell stem cell is an unspecialized cell that can divide division. The cell cycle is under precise regulation by without limit as needed and can, under specific chemical messengers both inside and outside the cell conditions, differentiate into specialized cells. Stem that provide “stop” and “go” signals for movement cells are divided into several categories according to from one phase to the next. Failures of these signals their potential to differentiate. While all somatic cells can result in cells that continue to divide contain the exact same genome, different cell types uncontrollably, which can lead to cancer. only express some of those genes at any given time. These differences in gene expression ultimately dictate Once a cell has completed interphase and is ready for a cell’s unique morphological and physiological cell division, it proceeds through four separate stages characteristics. The primary mechanism that of mitosis (prophase, metaphase, anaphase, and determines which genes will be expressed and which telophase). Telophase is followed by the division of the ones
