Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


both glucose and oxygen ________ and ________, respectively. are available to the cell? a. nucleus; cytoplasm a. mitochondria b. nucleolus; nucleus b. peroxisomes c. nucleolus; cytoplasm c. lysosomes d. cytoplasm; nucleus d. ER 122 3 • Critical Thinking Questions 22. How many “letters” of an RNA molecule, in 26. What is a primary function of tumor suppressor sequence, does it take to provide the code for a genes? single amino acid? a. stop all cells from dividing a. 1 b. stop certain cells from dividing b. 2 c. help oncogenes produce oncoproteins c. 3 d. allow the cell to skip certain phases of the cell d. 4 cycle 23. Which of the following isnotmade out of RNA? 27. Arrange the following terms in order of increasing a. the carriers that shuffle amino acids to a specialization: oligopotency, pleuripotency, growing polypeptide strand unipotency, multipotency. b. the ribosome a. multipotency, pleuripotency, oligopotency, c. the messenger molecule that provides the unipotency code for protein synthesis b. pleuripotency, oligopotency, multipotency d. the intron unipotency c. oligopotency, pleuripotency, unipotency, 24. Which of the following phases is characterized by multipotency preparation for DNA synthesis? d. pleuripotency, multipotency, oligopotency, a. G 0 unipotency b. G 1 c. G 28. Which type of stem cell gives rise to red and white 2 d. S blood cells? a. endothelial 25. A mutation in the gene for a cyclin protein might b. epithelial result in which of the following? c. hematopoietic a. a cell with additional genetic material than d. mesenchymal normal b. cancer 29. What multipotent stem cells from children c. a cell with less genetic material than normal sometimes banked by parents? d. any of the above a. fetal stem cells b. embryonic stem cells c. cells from the umbilical cord and from baby teeth d. hematopoietic stem cells from red and white blood cells Critical Thinking Questions 30. What materials can easily diffuse through the lipid 36. Why is it important that DNA replication take place bilayer, and why? before cell division? What would happen if cell 31. Why is receptor-mediated endocytosis said to be division of a body cell took place without DNA more selective than phagocytosis or pinocytosis? replication, or when DNA replication was 32. What do osmosis, diffusion, filtration, and the incomplete? movement of ions away from like charge all have 37. Briefly explain the similarities between in common? In what way do they
