Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


What do osmosis, diffusion, filtration, and the incomplete? movement of ions away from like charge all have 37. Briefly explain the similarities between in common? In what way do they differ? transcription and DNA replication. 33. Explain why the structure of the ER, mitochondria, 38. Contrast transcription and translation. Name at and Golgi apparatus assist their respective least three differences between the two functions. processes. 34. Compare and contrast lysosomes with 39. What would happen if anaphase proceeded even peroxisomes: name at least two similarities and though the sister chromatids were not properly one difference. attached to their respective microtubules and 35. Explain in your own words why DNA replication is lined up at the metaphase plate? said to be “semiconservative”? 40. What are cyclins and cyclin-dependent kinases, and how do they interact? Access for free at openstax.org 3 • Critical Thinking Questions 123 41. Explain how a transcription factor ultimately 42. Discuss two reasons why the therapeutic use of determines whether or not a protein will be embryonic stem cells can present a problem. present in a given cell? 124 3 • Critical Thinking Questions Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 4 The Tissue Level of Organization Figure4.1 Micrograph of Cervical TissueThis figure is a view of the regular architecture of normal tissue contrasted with the irregular arrangement of cancerous cells. (credit: “Haymanj”/Wikimedia Commons) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Identify the main tissue types and discuss their roles in the human body • Identify the four types of tissue membranes and the characteristics of each that make them functional • Explain the functions of various epithelial tissues and how their forms enable their functions • Explain the functions of various connective tissues and how their forms enable their functions • Describe the characteristics of muscle tissue and how these enable function • Discuss the characteristics of nervous tissue and how these enable information processing and control of muscular and glandular activities INTRODUCTION The body contains at least 200 distinct cell types. These cells contain essentially the same internal structures yet they vary enormously in shape and function. The different types of cells are not randomly distributed throughout the body; rather they occur in organized layers, a level of organization referred to as tissue. The micrograph that opens this chapter shows the high degree of organization among different types of cells in the
