Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Organization FIGURE4.3 Embryonic Origin of Tissues and Major Organs INTERACTIVE LINK View thisslideshow( learn more about stem cells. How do somatic stem cells differ from embryonic stem cells? Tissue Membranes Atissue membraneis a thin layer or sheet of cells that covers the outside of the body (for example, skin), the organs (for example, pericardium), internal passageways that lead to the exterior of the body (for example, mucosa of stomach), and the lining of the moveable joint cavities. There are two basic types of tissue membranes: connective tissue and epithelial membranes (Figure 4.4). Access for free at openstax.org 4.1 • Types of Tissues 129 FIGURE4.4 Tissue Membranes The two broad categories of tissue membranes in the body are (1) connective tissue membranes, which include synovial membranes, and (2) epithelial membranes, which include mucous membranes, serous membranes, and the cutaneous membrane, in other words, the skin. Connective Tissue Membranes Theconnective tissue membraneis formed solely from connective tissue. These membranes encapsulate organs, such as the kidneys, and line our movable joints. Asynovial membraneis a type of connective tissue membrane that lines the cavity of a freely movable joint. For example, synovial membranes surround the joints of the shoulder, elbow, and knee. Fibroblasts in the inner layer of the synovial membrane release hyaluronan into the joint cavity. The hyaluronan effectively traps available water to form the synovial fluid, a natural lubricant that enables the bones of a joint to move freely against one another without much friction. This synovial fluid readily exchanges water and nutrients with blood, as do all body fluids. Epithelial Membranes Theepithelial membraneis composed of epithelium attached to a layer of connective tissue, for example, your skin. Themucous membraneis also a composite of connective and epithelial tissues. Sometimes called mucosae, these epithelial membranes line the body cavities and hollow passageways that open to the external environment, and include the digestive, respiratory, excretory, and reproductive tracts. Mucus, produced by the epithelial exocrine 130 4 • The Tissue Level of Organization glands, covers the epithelial layer. The underlying connective tissue, called thelamina propria(literally “own layer”), help support the fragile epithelial layer. Aserous membraneis an epithelial membrane composed of mesodermally derived epithelium called the mesothelium that is supported by connective tissue. These membranes line the coelomic cavities of the body, that is, those cavities that do not open to the outside, and they cover the organs located within those cavities. They are essentially membranous
