Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


columnar epithelia are heterogeneous epithelia because they include additional types of cells interspersed among the epithelial cells. For example, agoblet cellis a mucous-secreting unicellular “gland” interspersed between the columnar epithelial cells of mucous membranes (Figure 4.7). Access for free at openstax.org 4.2 • Epithelial Tissue 135 FIGURE4.7 Goblet Cell (a) In the lining of the small intestine, columnar epithelium cells are interspersed with goblet cells. (b) The arrows in this micrograph point to the mucous-secreting goblet cells. LM × 1600. (Micrograph provided by the Regents of University of Michigan Medical School © 2012) INTERACTIVE LINK View theUniversity of Michigan WebScope( explore the tissue sample in greater detail. Stratified Epithelium A stratified epithelium consists of several stacked layers of cells. This epithelium protects against physical and chemical wear and tear. The stratified epithelium is named by the shape of the most apical layer of cells, closest to the free space.Stratified squamous epitheliumis the most common type of stratified epithelium in the human body. The apical cells are squamous, whereas the basal layer contains either columnar or cuboidal cells. The top layer may be covered with dead cells filled with keratin. Mammalian skin is an example of this dry, keratinized, stratified squamous epithelium. The lining of the mouth cavity is an example of an unkeratinized, stratified squamous epithelium.Stratified cuboidal epitheliumandstratified columnar epitheliumcan also be found in certain glands and ducts, but are uncommon in the human body. Another kind of stratified epithelium istransitional epithelium, so-called because of the gradual changes in the shapes of the apical cells as the bladder fills with urine. It is found only in the urinary system, specifically the ureters and urinary bladder. When the bladder is empty, this epithelium is convoluted and has cuboidal apical cells with convex, umbrella shaped, apical surfaces. As the bladder fills with urine, this epithelium loses its convolutions and the apical cells transition from cuboidal to squamous. It appears thicker and more multi-layered when the bladder is empty, and more stretched out and less stratified when the bladder is full and distended.Figure 4.8summarizes the different categories of epithelial cell tissue cells. 136 4 • The Tissue Level of Organization FIGURE4.8 Summary of Epithelial Tissue Cells INTERACTIVE LINK Watch thisvideo( find out more about the anatomy of epithelial tissues. Where in the body would one find non-keratinizing stratified squamous epithelium? Access for free at openstax.org 4.2 • Epithelial Tissue 137 Glandular Epithelium A
