Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


delicate organs and, of course, the skeletal system. Specialized cells in connective tissue defend the body from microorganisms that enter the body. Transport of fluid, nutrients, waste, and chemical messengers is ensured by specialized fluid connective tissues, such as blood and lymph. Adipose cells store surplus energy in the form of fat and contribute to the thermal insulation of the body. Embryonic Connective Tissue All connective tissues derive from the mesodermal layer of the embryo (seeFigure 4.3). The first connective tissue Access for free at openstax.org 4.3 • Connective Tissue Supports and Protects 141 to develop in the embryo ismesenchyme, the stem cell line from which all connective tissues are later derived. Clusters of mesenchymal cells are scattered throughout adult tissue and supply the cells needed for replacement and repair after a connective tissue injury. A second type of embryonic connective tissue forms in the umbilical cord, calledmucous connective tissueor Wharton’s jelly. This tissue is no longer present after birth, leaving only scattered mesenchymal cells throughout the body. Classification of Connective Tissues The three broad categories of connective tissue are classified according to the characteristics of their ground substance and the types of fibers found within the matrix (Table 4.1).Connective tissue properincludesloose connective tissueanddense connective tissue. Both tissues have a variety of cell types and protein fibers suspended in a viscous ground substance. Dense connective tissue is reinforced by bundles of fibers that provide tensile strength, elasticity, and protection. In loose connective tissue, the fibers are loosely organized, leaving large spaces in between.Supportive connective tissue—bone and cartilage—provide structure and strength to the body and protect soft tissues. A few distinct cell types and densely packed fibers in a matrix characterize these tissues. In bone, the matrix is rigid and described as calcified because of the deposited calcium salts. Influid connective tissue, in other words, lymph and blood, various specialized cells circulate in a watery fluid containing salts, nutrients, and dissolved proteins. Connective Tissue Examples Connective tissue proper Supportive connective tissue Fluid connective tissue Loose connective tissue • Areolar Cartilage • Adipose • Hyaline • Reticular Blood • Fibrocartilage Dense connective tissue Lymph • Elastic • Dense regular Bone • Elastic • Dense-irregular TABLE4.1 Connective Tissue Proper Fibroblasts are present in all connective tissue proper (Figure 4.12). Fibrocytes, adipocytes, and mesenchymal cells are fixed cells, which means they remain within the connective tissue. Other cells move in and out of the
