Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


that could not otherwise directly enter the bloodstream. In this way, specialized lymphatic capillaries transport absorbed fats away from the intestine and deliver these molecules to the blood. FIGURE4.17 Blood: A Fluid Connective Tissue Blood is a fluid connective tissue containing erythrocytes and various types of leukocytes that circulate in a liquid extracellular matrix. LM × 1600. (Micrograph provided by the Regents of University of Michigan Medical School © 2012) INTERACTIVE LINK View theUniversity of Michigan Webscope( explore the tissue sample in greater detail. 4.4 Muscle Tissue and Motion LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Identify the three types of muscle tissue • Compare and contrast the functions of each muscle tissue type • Explain how muscle tissue can enable motion Muscle tissue is characterized by properties that allow movement. Muscle cells are excitable; they respond to a stimulus. They are contractile, meaning they can shorten and generate a pulling force. When attached between two movable objects, in other words, bones, contractions of the muscles cause the bones to move. Some muscle movement is voluntary, which means it is under conscious control. For example, a person decides to open a book and read a chapter on anatomy. Other movements are involuntary, meaning they are not under conscious control, such as the contraction of your pupil in bright light. Muscle tissue is classified into three types according to structure and function: skeletal, cardiac, and smooth (Table 4.2). 148 4 • The Tissue Level of Organization Comparison of Structure and Properties of Muscle Tissue Types Tissue Histology Function Location Long cylindrical fiber, Attached to bones and striated, many Voluntary movement, produces heat, protects around entrance points Skeletal peripherally located organs to body (e.g., mouth, nuclei anus) Short, branched, Cardiac striated, single central Contracts to pump blood Heart nucleus Short, spindle-shaped, Involuntary movement, moves food, no evident striation, involuntary control of respiration, moves Walls of major organs Smooth single nucleus in each secretions, regulates flow of blood in arteries and passageways fiber by contraction TABLE4.2 Skeletal muscleis attached to bones and its contraction makes possible locomotion, facial expressions, posture, and other voluntary movements of the body. Forty percent of your body mass is made up of skeletal muscle. Skeletal muscles generate heat as a byproduct of their contraction and thus participate in thermal homeostasis. Shivering is an involuntary contraction of skeletal muscles in response to
