Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


cellular shapes and arrangements: squamous, cuboidal, or columnar The human body contains more than 200 types of cells epithelia. Single cell layers form simple epithelia, that can all be classified into four types of tissues: whereas stacked cells form stratified epithelia. Very epithelial, connective, muscle, and nervous. Epithelial few capillaries penetrate these tissues. tissues act as coverings controlling the movement of materials across the surface. Connective tissue Glands are secretory tissues and organs that are integrates the various parts of the body and provides derived from epithelial tissues. Exocrine glands release support and protection to organs. Muscle tissue allows their products through ducts. Endocrine glands secrete the body to move. Nervous tissues propagate hormones directly into the interstitial fluid and blood information. stream. Glands are classified both according to the type of secretion and by their structure. Merocrine The study of the shape and arrangement of cells in glands secrete products as they are synthesized. tissue is called histology. All cells and tissues in the Apocrine glands release secretions by pinching off the body derive from three germ layers in the embryo: the apical portion of the cell, whereas holocrine gland cells ectoderm, mesoderm, and endoderm. store their secretions until they rupture and release Different types of tissues form membranes that their contents. In this case, the cell becomes part of enclose organs, provide a friction-free interaction the secretion. between organs, and keep organs together. Synovial 4.3Connective Tissue Supports and membranes are connective tissue membranes that Protects protect and line the joints. Epithelial membranes are formed from epithelial tissue attached to a layer of Connective tissue is a heterogeneous tissue with many connective tissue. There are three types of epithelial cell shapes and tissue architecture. Structurally, all membranes: mucous, which contain glands; serous, connective tissues contain cells that are embedded in which secrete fluid; and cutaneous which makes up the an extracellular matrix stabilized by proteins. The skin. chemical nature and physical layout of the extracellular matrix and proteins vary enormously among tissues, 4.2Epithelial Tissue reflecting the variety of functions that connective In epithelial tissue, cells are closely packed with little tissue fulfills in the body. Connective tissues separate or no extracellular matrix except for the basal lamina and cushion organs, protecting them from shifting or that separates the epithelium from underlying tissue. traumatic injury. Connect tissues provide support and The main functions of epithelia are protection from the assist
