Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


organs, protecting them from shifting or that separates the epithelium from underlying tissue. traumatic injury. Connect tissues provide support and The main functions of epithelia are protection from the assist movement, store and transport energy environment, coverage, secretion and excretion, molecules, protect against infections, and contribute to absorption, and filtration. Cells are bound together by temperature homeostasis. tight junctions that form an impermeable barrier. They Many different cells contribute to the formation of can also be connected by gap junctions, which allow connective tissues. They originate in the mesodermal free exchange of soluble molecules between cells, and germ layer and differentiate from mesenchyme and anchoring junctions, which attach cell to cell or cell to hematopoietic tissue in the bone marrow. Fibroblasts matrix. The different types of epithelial tissues are 158 4 • Chapter Review are the most abundant and secrete many protein Cells are attached to one another at intercalated disks. fibers, adipocytes specialize in fat storage, The cells are interconnected physically and hematopoietic cells from the bone marrow give rise to electrochemically to act as a syncytium. Cardiac all the blood cells, chondrocytes form cartilage, and muscle cells contract autonomously and involuntarily. osteocytes form bone. The extracellular matrix Smooth muscle is involuntary. Each cell is a spindle- contains fluid, proteins, polysaccharide derivatives, shaped fiber and contains a single nucleus. No and, in the case of bone, mineral crystals. Protein fibers striations are evident because the actin and myosin fall into three major groups: collagen fibers that are filaments do not align in the cytoplasm. thick, strong, flexible, and resist stretch; reticular fibers 4.5Nervous Tissue Mediates Perception that are thin and form a supportive mesh; and elastin and Response fibers that are thin and elastic. The most prominent cell of the nervous tissue, the The major types of connective tissue are connective neuron, is characterized mainly by its ability to receive tissue proper, supportive tissue, and fluid tissue. Loose stimuli and respond by generating an electrical signal, connective tissue proper includes adipose tissue, known as an action potential, which can travel rapidly areolar tissue, and reticular tissue. These serve to hold over great distances in the body. A typical neuron organs and other tissues in place and, in the case of displays a distinctive morphology: a large cell body adipose tissue, isolate and store energy reserves. The branches out into short extensions called dendrites, matrix is the most abundant feature
