Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


of displays a distinctive morphology: a large cell body adipose tissue, isolate and store energy reserves. The branches out into short extensions called dendrites, matrix is the most abundant feature for loose tissue which receive chemical signals from other neurons, although adipose tissue does not have much and a long tail called an axon, which relays signals extracellular matrix. Dense connective tissue proper is away from the cell to other neurons, muscles, or richer in fibers and may be regular, with fibers oriented glands. Many axons are wrapped by a myelin sheath, a in parallel as in ligaments and tendons, or irregular, lipid derivative that acts as an insulator and speeds up with fibers oriented in several directions. Organ the transmission of the action potential. Other cells in capsules (collagenous type) and walls of arteries the nervous tissue, the neuroglia, include the (elastic type) contain dense irregular connective tissue. astrocytes, microglia, oligodendrocytes, and Schwann Cartilage and bone are supportive tissue. Cartilage cells. contains chondrocytes and is somewhat flexible. Hyaline cartilage is smooth and clear, covers joints, and 4.6Tissue Injury and Aging is found in the growing portion of bones. Fibrocartilage Inflammation is the classic response of the body to is tough because of extra collagen fibers and forms, injury and follows a common sequence of events. The among other things, the intervertebral discs. Elastic area is red, feels warm to the touch, swells, and is cartilage can stretch and recoil to its original shape painful. Injured cells, mast cells, and resident because of its high content of elastic fibers. The matrix macrophages release chemical signals that cause contains very few blood vessels. Bones are made of a vasodilation and fluid leakage in the surrounding rigid, mineralized matrix containing calcium salts, tissue. The repair phase includes blood clotting, crystals, and osteocytes lodged in lacunae. Bone tissue followed by regeneration of tissue as fibroblasts is highly vascularized. Cancellous bone is spongy and deposit collagen. Some tissues regenerate more less solid than compact bone. Fluid tissue, for example readily than others. Epithelial and connective tissues blood and lymph, is characterized by a liquid matrix replace damaged or dead cells from a supply of adult and no supporting fibers. stem cells. Muscle and nervous tissues undergo either 4.4Muscle Tissue and Motion slow regeneration or do not repair at all. The three types of muscle cells are skeletal, cardiac, Age affects all the tissues and
