Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Steroids such as cortisol are used to 35. One of the main functions of connective tissue is control some autoimmune diseases and severe to integrate organs and organ systems in the body. arthritis by down-regulating the inflammatory Discuss how blood fulfills this role. response. After reading the role of inflammation in 36. Why does an injury to cartilage, especially hyaline the body’s response to infection, can you predict cartilage, heal much more slowly than a bone an undesirable consequence of taking anti- fracture? inflammatory drugs on a regular basis? 37. You are watching cells in a dish spontaneously 43. As an individual ages, a constellation of symptoms contract. They are all contracting at different begins the decline to the point where an rates; some fast, some slow. After a while, several individual’s functioning is compromised. Identify cells link up and they begin contracting in and discuss two factors that have a role in factors synchrony. Discuss what is going on and what type leading to the compromised situation. of cells you are looking at. 44. Discuss changes that occur in cells as a person 38. Why does skeletal muscle look striated? ages. 162 4 • Critical Thinking Questions Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 5 The Integumentary System Figure5.1 Your skin is a vital part of your life and appearance (a–b). Some people choose to embellish it with tattoos (a) or makeup (b). (credit a: Steve Teo; credit b: “spaceodissey”/flickr) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying the chapter, you will be able to: • Describe the integumentary system and the role it plays in homeostasis • Describe the layers of the skin and the functions of each layer • Describe the accessory structures of the skin and the functions of each • Describe the changes that occur in the integumentary system during the aging process • Discuss several common diseases, disorders, and injuries that affect the integumentary system • Explain treatments for some common diseases, disorders, and injuries of the integumentary system INTRODUCTION What do you think when you look at your skin in the mirror? Do you think about covering it with makeup, adding a tattoo, or maybe a body piercing? Or do you think about the fact that the skin belongs to one of the body’s most essential and dynamic systems: the integumentary system? The integumentary system refers to the skin and its accessory structures, and it is responsible for
