Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


belongs to one of the body’s most essential and dynamic systems: the integumentary system? The integumentary system refers to the skin and its accessory structures, and it is responsible for much more than simply lending to your outward appearance. In the adult human body, the skin makes up about 16 percent of body weight and covers an area of 1.5 to 2 m2. In fact, the skin and accessory structures are the largest organ system in the human body. As such, the skin protects your inner organs and it is in need of daily care and protection to maintain its health. This chapter will introduce the structure and functions of the integumentary system, as well as some of the diseases, disorders, and injuries that can affect this system. 5.1 Layers of the Skin LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Identify the components of the integumentary system • Describe the layers of the skin and the functions of each layer • Identify and describe the hypodermis and deep fascia • Describe the role of keratinocytes and their life cycle • Describe the role of melanocytes in skin pigmentation Although you may not typically think of the skin as an organ, it is in fact made of tissues that work together as a single structure to perform unique and critical functions. The skin and its accessory structures make up the integumentary system, which provides the body with overall protection. The skin is made of multiple layers of cells and tissues, which are held to underlying structures by connective tissue (Figure 5.2). The deeper layer of skin is well vascularized (has numerous blood vessels). It also has numerous sensory, and autonomic and sympathetic 164 5 • The Integumentary System nerve fibers ensuring communication to and from the brain. FIGURE5.2 Layers of Skin The skin is composed of two main layers: the epidermis, made of closely packed epithelial cells, and the dermis, made of dense, irregular connective tissue that houses blood vessels, hair follicles, sweat glands, and other structures. Beneath the dermis lies the hypodermis, which is composed mainly of loose connective and fatty tissues. INTERACTIVE LINK The skin consists of two main layers and a closely associated layer. View thisanimation( layers)to learn more about layers of the skin. What are the basic functions of each of these layers? The Epidermis Theepidermisis composed of keratinized, stratified
