Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


of asthma or a heart attack. However, in these cases the effect on skin color has nothing do with the skin’s pigmentation. INTERACTIVE LINK This ABC video follows the story of a pair of fraternal African-American twins, one of whom is albino. Watch this video( learn about the challenges these children and their family face. Which ethnicities do you think are exempt from the possibility of albinism? 5.2 Accessory Structures of the Skin LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Identify the accessory structures of the skin • Describe the structure and function of hair and nails • Describe the structure and function of sweat glands and sebaceous glands Accessory structures of the skin include hair, nails, sweat glands, and sebaceous glands. These structures embryologically originate from the epidermis and can extend down through the dermis into the hypodermis. Hair Hairis a keratinous filament growing out of the epidermis. It is primarily made of dead, keratinized cells. Strands of hair originate in an epidermal penetration of the dermis called thehair follicle. Thehair shaftis the part of the hair not anchored to the follicle, and much of this is exposed at the skin’s surface. The rest of the hair, which is anchored in the follicle, lies below the surface of the skin and is referred to as thehair root. The hair root ends deep in the dermis at thehair bulb, and includes a layer of mitotically active basal cells called thehair matrix. The hair bulb surrounds thehair papilla, which is made of connective tissue and contains blood capillaries and nerve endings from the dermis (Figure 5.11). Access for free at openstax.org 5.2 • Accessory Structures of the Skin 173 FIGURE5.11 Hair Hair follicles originate in the epidermis and have many different parts. Just as the basal layer of the epidermis forms the layers of epidermis that get pushed to the surface as the dead skin on the surface sheds, the basal cells of the hair bulb divide and push cells outward in the hair root and shaft as the hair grows. Themedullaforms the central core of the hair, which is surrounded by thecortex, a layer of compressed, keratinized cells that is covered by an outer layer of very hard, keratinized cells known as thecuticle. These layers are depicted in a longitudinal cross-section of the hair follicle (Figure 5.12), although not all hair has a
