Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


pushes the old hair out as the growth cycle repeats itself. Hair typically grows at the rate of 0.3 mm per day during the anagen phase. On average, 50 hairs are lost and replaced per day. Hair loss occurs if there is more hair shed than what is replaced and can happen due to hormonal or dietary changes. Hair loss can also result from the aging process, or the influence of hormones. Access for free at openstax.org 5.2 • Accessory Structures of the Skin 175 Hair Color Similar to the skin, hair gets its color from the pigment melanin, produced by melanocytes in the hair papilla. Different hair color results from differences in the type of melanin, which is genetically determined. As a person ages, the melanin production decreases, and hair tends to lose its color and becomes gray and/or white. Nails The nail bed is a specialized structure of the epidermis that is found at the tips of our fingers and toes. Thenail body is formed on thenail bed, and protects the tips of our fingers and toes as they are the farthest extremities and the parts of the body that experience the maximum mechanical stress (Figure 5.13). In addition, the nail body forms a back-support for picking up small objects with the fingers. The nail body is composed of densely packed dead keratinocytes. The epidermis in this part of the body has evolved a specialized structure upon which nails can form. The nail body forms at thenail root, which has a matrix of proliferating cells from the stratum basale that enables the nail to grow continuously. The lateralnail foldoverlaps the nail on the sides, helping to anchor the nail body. The nail fold that meets the proximal end of the nail body forms thenail cuticle, also called theeponychium. The nail bed is rich in blood vessels, making it appear pink, except at the base, where a thick layer of epithelium over the nail matrix forms a crescent-shaped region called thelunula(the “little moon”). The area beneath the free edge of the nail, furthest from the cuticle, is called thehyponychium. It consists of a thickened layer of stratum corneum. FIGURE5.13 Nails The nail is an accessory structure of the integumentary system. INTERACTIVE LINK Nails are accessory structures of the integumentary system. Visit thislink( learn more about the origin and growth of fingernails. Sweat Glands When the body becomes warm,sudoriferous glandsproduce
