Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


system. INTERACTIVE LINK Nails are accessory structures of the integumentary system. Visit thislink( learn more about the origin and growth of fingernails. Sweat Glands When the body becomes warm,sudoriferous glandsproduce sweat to cool the body. Sweat glands develop from epidermal projections into the dermis and are classified as merocrine glands; that is, the secretions are excreted by 176 5 • The Integumentary System exocytosis through a duct without affecting the cells of the gland. There are two types of sweat glands, each secreting slightly different products. Aneccrine sweat glandis type of gland that produces a hypotonic sweat for thermoregulation. These glands are found all over the skin’s surface, but are especially abundant on the palms of the hand, the soles of the feet, and the forehead (Figure 5.14). They are coiled glands lying deep in the dermis, with the duct rising up to a pore on the skin surface, where the sweat is released. This type of sweat, released by exocytosis, is hypotonic and composed mostly of water, with some salt, antibodies, traces of metabolic waste, and dermicidin, an antimicrobial peptide. Eccrine glands are a primary component of thermoregulation in humans and thus help to maintain homeostasis. FIGURE5.14 Eccrine Gland Eccrine glands are coiled glands in the dermis that release sweat that is mostly water. Anapocrine sweat glandis usually associated with hair follicles in densely hairy areas, such as armpits and genital regions. Apocrine sweat glands are larger than eccrine sweat glands and lie deeper in the dermis, sometimes even reaching the hypodermis, with the duct normally emptying into the hair follicle. In addition to water and salts, apocrine sweat includes organic compounds that make the sweat thicker and subject to bacterial decomposition and subsequent smell. The release of this sweat is under both nervous and hormonal control, and plays a role in the poorly understood human pheromone response. Most commercial antiperspirants use an aluminum-based compound as their primary active ingredient to stop sweat. When the antiperspirant enters the sweat gland duct, the aluminum-based compounds precipitate due to a change in pH and form a physical block in the duct, which prevents sweat from coming out of the pore. INTERACTIVE LINK Sweating regulates body temperature. The composition of the sweat determines whether body odor is a byproduct of sweating. Visit thislink( learn more about sweating and body odor. Sebaceous Glands Asebaceous glandis a type of oil gland that is found
