Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


ointments (Mayo Clinic 2012). FIGURE5.18 Basal Cell Carcinoma Basal cell carcinoma can take several different forms. Similar to other forms of skin cancer, it is readily cured if caught early and treated. (credit: John Hendrix, MD) Squamous Cell Carcinoma Squamous cell carcinomais a cancer that affects the keratinocytes of the stratum spinosum and presents as lesions commonly found on the scalp, ears, and hands (Figure 5.19). It is the second most common skin cancer. The American Cancer Society reports that two of 10 skin cancers are squamous cell carcinomas, and it is more aggressive than basal cell carcinoma. If not removed, these carcinomas can metastasize. Surgery and radiation are used to cure squamous cell carcinoma. FIGURE5.19 Squamous Cell Carcinoma Squamous cell carcinoma presents here as a lesion on an individual’s nose. (credit: the National Cancer Institute) Melanoma Amelanomais a cancer characterized by the uncontrolled growth of melanocytes, the pigment-producing cells in the epidermis. Typically, a melanoma develops from a mole. It is the most fatal of all skin cancers, as it is highly metastatic and can be difficult to detect before it has spread to other organs. Melanomas usually appear as asymmetrical brown and black patches with uneven borders and a raised surface (Figure 5.20). Treatment typically involves surgical excision and immunotherapy. FIGURE5.20 Melanoma Melanomas typically present as large brown or black patches with uneven borders and a raised surface. 182 5 • The Integumentary System (credit: the National Cancer Institute / Centers for Disease Control) Doctors often give their patients the following ABCDE mnemonic to help with the diagnosis of early-stage melanoma. If you observe a mole on your body displaying these signs, consult a doctor. • Asymmetry – the two sides are not symmetrical • Borders – the edges are irregular in shape • Color – the color is varied shades of brown or black • Diameter – it is larger than 6 mm (0.24 in) • Evolving – its shape has changed Some specialists cite the following additional signs for the most serious form, nodular melanoma: • Elevated – it is raised on the skin surface • Firm – it feels hard to the touch • Growing – it is getting larger Skin Disorders Two common skin disorders are eczema and acne. Eczema is an inflammatory condition and occurs in individuals of all ages. Acne involves the clogging of pores, which can lead to infection and inflammation,
