Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


be repaired by the body, because the local tissues used for repair are damaged and require excision (debridement), or amputation in severe cases, followed by grafting of the skin from an unaffected part of the body, or from skin grown in tissue culture for grafting purposes. FIGURE5.23 Calculating the Size of a Burn The size of a burn will guide decisions made about the need for specialized treatment. Specific parts of the body are associated with a percentage of body area. Access for free at openstax.org 5.4 • Diseases, Disorders, and Injuries of the Integumentary System 185 INTERACTIVE LINK Skin grafts are required when the damage from trauma or infection cannot be closed with sutures or staples. Watch thisvideo( learn more about skin grafting procedures. Scars and Keloids Most cuts or wounds, with the exception of ones that only scratch the surface (the epidermis), lead to scar formation. Ascaris collagen-rich skin formed after the process of wound healing that differs from normal skin. Scarring occurs in cases in which there is repair of skin damage, but the skin fails to regenerate the original skin structure. Fibroblasts generate scar tissue in the form of collagen, and the bulk of repair is due to the basket-weave pattern generated by collagen fibers and does not result in regeneration of the typical cellular structure of skin. Instead, the tissue is fibrous in nature and does not allow for the regeneration of accessory structures, such as hair follicles, sweat glands, or sebaceous glands. Sometimes, there is an overproduction of scar tissue, because the process of collagen formation does not stop when the wound is healed; this results in the formation of a raised or hypertrophic scar called akeloid. In contrast, scars that result from acne and chickenpox have a sunken appearance and are called atrophic scars. Scarring of skin after wound healing is a natural process and does not need to be treated further. Application of mineral oil and lotions may reduce the formation of scar tissue. However, modern cosmetic procedures, such as dermabrasion, laser treatments, and filler injections have been invented as remedies for severe scarring. All of these procedures try to reorganize the structure of the epidermis and underlying collagen tissue to make it look more natural. Bedsores and Stretch Marks Skin and its underlying tissue can be affected by excessive pressure. One example of this is called abedsore. Bedsores, also called decubitis
