Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


it look more natural. Bedsores and Stretch Marks Skin and its underlying tissue can be affected by excessive pressure. One example of this is called abedsore. Bedsores, also called decubitis ulcers, are caused by constant, long-term, unrelieved pressure on certain body parts that are bony, reducing blood flow to the area and leading to necrosis (tissue death). Bedsores are most common in elderly patients who have debilitating conditions that cause them to be immobile. Most hospitals and long-term care facilities have the practice of turning the patients every few hours to prevent the incidence of bedsores. If left untreated by removal of necrotized tissue, bedsores can be fatal if they become infected. The skin can also be affected by pressure associated with rapid growth. Astretch markresults when the dermis is stretched beyond its limits of elasticity, as the skin stretches to accommodate the excess pressure. Stretch marks usually accompany rapid weight gain during puberty and pregnancy. They initially have a reddish hue, but lighten over time. Other than for cosmetic reasons, treatment of stretch marks is not required. They occur most commonly over the hips and abdomen. Calluses When you wear shoes that do not fit well and are a constant source of abrasion on your toes, you tend to form a callusat the point of contact. This occurs because the basal stem cells in the stratum basale are triggered to divide more often to increase the thickness of the skin at the point of abrasion to protect the rest of the body from further damage. This is an example of a minor or local injury, and the skin manages to react and treat the problem independent of the rest of the body. Calluses can also form on your fingers if they are subject to constant mechanical stress, such as long periods of writing, playing string instruments, or video games. Acornis a specialized form of callus. Corns form from abrasions on the skin that result from an elliptical-type motion. 186 5 • Key Terms Key Terms acne skin condition due to infected sebaceous glands eponychium nail fold that meets the proximal end of albinism genetic disorder that affects the skin, in the nail body, also called the cuticle which there is no melanin production external root sheath outer layer of the hair follicle anagen active phase of the hair growth cycle that is an extension of the epidermis, which apocrine
