Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the process of vitiligo skin condition in which melanocytes in certain wound healing that is different from normal skin areas lose the ability to produce melanin, possibly sebaceous gland type of oil gland found in the due an autoimmune reaction that leads to loss of dermis all over the body and helps to lubricate and color in patches waterproof the skin and hair by secreting sebum Chapter Review 5.1Layers of the Skin spinosum to protect cells from UV rays. The skin is composed of two major layers: a superficial The dermis connects the epidermis to the hypodermis, epidermis and a deeper dermis. The epidermis consists and provides strength and elasticity due to the of several layers beginning with the innermost presence of collagen and elastin fibers. It has only two (deepest) stratum basale (germinatum), followed by layers: the papillary layer with papillae that extend into the stratum spinosum, stratum granulosum, stratum the epidermis and the lower, reticular layer composed lucidum (when present), and ending with the of loose connective tissue. The hypodermis, deep to outermost layer, the stratum corneum. The topmost the dermis of skin, is the connective tissue that layer, the stratum corneum, consists of dead cells that connects the dermis to underlying structures; it also shed periodically and is progressively replaced by cells harbors adipose tissue for fat storage and protection. formed from the basal layer. The stratum basale also 5.2Accessory Structures of the Skin contains melanocytes, cells that produce melanin, the pigment primarily responsible for giving skin its color. Accessory structures of the skin include hair, nails, Melanin is transferred to keratinocytes in the stratum sweat glands, and sebaceous glands. Hair is made of 188 5 • Interactive Link Questions dead keratinized cells, and gets its color from melanin 5.4Diseases, Disorders, and Injuries of the pigments. Nails, also made of dead keratinized cells, Integumentary System protect the extremities of our fingers and toes from Skin cancer is a result of damage to the DNA of skin mechanical damage. Sweat glands and sebaceous cells, often due to excessive exposure to UV radiation. glands produce sweat and sebum, respectively. Each of Basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma are these fluids has a role to play in maintaining highly curable, and arise from cells in the stratum homeostasis. Sweat cools the body surface when it basale and stratum spinosum, respectively. Melanoma gets overheated and helps excrete small amounts of
