Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


curable, and arise from cells in the stratum homeostasis. Sweat cools the body surface when it basale and stratum spinosum, respectively. Melanoma gets overheated and helps excrete small amounts of is the most dangerous form of skin cancer, affecting metabolic waste. Sebum acts as a natural moisturizer melanocytes, which can spread/metastasize to other and keeps the dead, flaky, outer keratin layer healthy. organs. Burns are an injury to the skin that occur as a 5.3Functions of the Integumentary System result of exposure to extreme heat, radiation, or chemicals. First-degree and second-degree burns The skin plays important roles in protection, sensing usually heal quickly, but third-degree burns can be stimuli, thermoregulation, and vitamin D synthesis. It is fatal because they penetrate the full thickness of the the first layer of defense to prevent dehydration, skin. Scars occur when there is repair of skin damage. infection, and injury to the rest of the body. Sweat Fibroblasts generate scar tissue in the form of collagen, glands in the skin allow the skin surface to cool when which forms a basket-weave pattern that looks the body gets overheated. Thermoregulation is also different from normal skin. accomplished by the dilation or constriction of heat- carrying blood vessels in the skin. Immune cells Bedsores and stretch marks are the result of excessive present among the skin layers patrol the areas to keep pressure on the skin and underlying tissue. Bedsores them free of foreign materials. Fat stores in the are characterized by necrosis of tissue due to hypodermis aid in both thermoregulation and immobility, whereas stretch marks result from rapid protection. Finally, the skin plays a role in the synthesis growth. Eczema is an allergic reaction that manifests as of vitamin D, which is necessary for our well-being but a rash, and acne results from clogged sebaceous not easily available in natural foods. glands. Eczema and acne are usually long-term skin conditions that may be treated successfully in mild cases. Calluses and corns are the result of abrasive pressure on the skin. Interactive Link Questions 1. The skin consists of two layers and a closely 3. Figure 5.6If you zoom on the cells of the stratum associated layer. View thisanimation spinosum, what is distinctive about them? ( learn more about 4. This ABC video follows the story of a pair of layers of the skin. What are the basic functions of fraternal African-American twins, one of
