Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


bones in the human skeleton are in the carpals of the wrists and the tarsals of the ankles. Short bones provide stability and support as well as some limited motion. 196 6 • Bone Tissue and the Skeletal System Flat Bones The term “flat bone” is somewhat of a misnomer because, although a flat bone is typically thin, it is also often curved. Examples include the cranial (skull) bones, the scapulae (shoulder blades), the sternum (breastbone), and the ribs. Flat bones serve as points of attachment for muscles and often protect internal organs. Irregular Bones Anirregular boneis one that does not have any easily characterized shape and therefore does not fit any other classification. These bones tend to have more complex shapes, like the vertebrae that support the spinal cord and protect it from compressive forces. Many facial bones, particularly the ones containing sinuses, are classified as irregular bones. Sesamoid Bones Asesamoid boneis a small, round bone that, as the name suggests, is shaped like a sesame seed. These bones form in tendons (the sheaths of tissue that connect bones to muscles) where a great deal of pressure is generated in a joint. The sesamoid bones protect tendons by helping them overcome compressive forces. Sesamoid bones vary in number and placement from person to person but are typically found in tendons associated with the feet, hands, and knees. The patellae (singular = patella) are the only sesamoid bones found in common with every person.Table 6.1reviews bone classifications with their associated features, functions, and examples. Bone Classifications Bone Features Function(s) Examples classification Femur, tibia, fibula, metatarsals, Cylinder-like shape, longer Long Leverage humerus, ulna, radius, than it is wide metacarpals, phalanges Cube-like shape, Provide stability, support, Short approximately equal in while allowing for some Carpals, tarsals length, width, and thickness motion Points of attachment for Sternum, ribs, scapulae, cranial Flat Thin and curved muscles; protectors of bones internal organs Irregular Complex shape Protect internal organs Vertebrae, facial bones Small and round; embedded Protect tendons from Sesamoid Patellae in tendons compressive forces TABLE6.1 6.3 Bone Structure LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Identify the anatomical features of a bone • Define and list examples of bone markings • Describe the histology of bone tissue • Compare and contrast compact and spongy bone • Identify the structures that compose compact and spongy bone • Describe how
