Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


bone markings • Describe the histology of bone tissue • Compare and contrast compact and spongy bone • Identify the structures that compose compact and spongy bone • Describe how bones are nourished and innervated Access for free at openstax.org 6.3 • Bone Structure 197 Bone tissue (osseous tissue) differs greatly from other tissues in the body. Bone is hard and many of its functions depend on that characteristic hardness. Later discussions in this chapter will show that bone is also dynamic in that its shape adjusts to accommodate stresses. This section will examine the gross anatomy of bone first and then move on to its histology. Gross Anatomy of Bone The structure of a long bone allows for the best visualization of all of the parts of a bone (Figure 6.7). A long bone has two parts: thediaphysisand theepiphysis. The diaphysis is the tubular shaft that runs between the proximal and distal ends of the bone. The hollow region in the diaphysis is called themedullary cavity, which is filled with yellow marrow. The walls of the diaphysis are composed of dense and hardcompact bone. FIGURE6.7 Anatomy of a Long Bone A typical long bone shows the gross anatomical characteristics of bone. The wider section at each end of the bone is called the epiphysis (plural = epiphyses), which is filled with spongy bone. Red marrow fills the spaces in the spongy bone. Each epiphysis meets the diaphysis at the metaphysis, the narrow area that contains theepiphyseal plate(growth plate), a layer of hyaline (transparent) cartilage in a growing bone. When the bone stops growing in early adulthood (approximately 18–21 years), the cartilage is replaced by osseous tissue and the epiphyseal plate becomes an epiphyseal line. The medullary cavity has a delicate membranous lining called theendosteum(end- = “inside”; oste- = “bone”), where bone growth, repair, and remodeling occur. The outer surface of the bone is covered with a fibrous membrane called theperiosteum(peri- =“around” or “surrounding”). The periosteum contains blood vessels, nerves, and lymphatic vessels that nourish compact bone. Tendons and ligaments also attach to bones at the periosteum. The 198 6 • Bone Tissue and the Skeletal System periosteum covers the entire outer surface except where the epiphyses meet other bones to form joints (Figure 6.8). In this region, the epiphyses are covered witharticular cartilage, a thin layer of cartilage that reduces friction and acts as a shock absorber. FIGURE6.8 Periosteum
