Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


to form joints (Figure 6.8). In this region, the epiphyses are covered witharticular cartilage, a thin layer of cartilage that reduces friction and acts as a shock absorber. FIGURE6.8 Periosteum and Endosteum The periosteum forms the outer surface of bone, and the endosteum lines the medullary cavity. Flat bones, like those of the cranium, consist of a layer ofdiploë(spongy bone), lined on either side by a layer of compact bone (Figure 6.9). The two layers of compact bone and the interior spongy bone work together to protect the internal organs. If the outer layer of a cranial bone fractures, the brain is still protected by the intact inner layer. FIGURE6.9 Anatomy of a Flat Bone This cross-section of a flat bone shows the spongy bone (diploë) lined on either side by a layer of compact bone. Bone Markings The surface features of bones vary considerably, depending on the function and location in the body.Table 6.2 describes the bone markings, which are illustrated in (Figure 6.10). There are three general classes of bone markings: (1) articulations, (2) projections, and (3) holes. As the name implies, anarticulationis where two bone surfaces come together (articulus = “joint”). These surfaces tend to conform to one another, such as one being rounded and the other cupped, to facilitate the function of the articulation. Aprojectionis an area of a bone that projects above the surface of the bone. These are the attachment points for tendons and ligaments. In general, their size and shape is an indication of the forces exerted through the attachment to the bone. Aholeis an opening or groove in the bone that allows blood vessels and nerves to enter the bone. As with the other markings, their size and shape reflect the size of the vessels and nerves that penetrate the bone at these points. Access for free at openstax.org 6.3 • Bone Structure 199 Bone Markings Marking Description Example Articulations Where two bones meet Knee joint Head Prominent rounded surface Head of femur Facet Flat surface Vertebrae Condyle Rounded surface Occipital condyles Projections Raised markings Spinous process of the vertebrae Protuberance Protruding Chin Process Prominence feature Transverse process of vertebra Spine Sharp process Ischial spine Tubercle Small, rounded process Tubercle of humerus Tuberosity Rough surface Deltoid tuberosity Line Slight, elongated ridge Temporal lines of the parietal bones Crest Ridge Iliac crest Holes Holes and depressions Foramen (holes through which blood vessels can
