Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Tuberosity Rough surface Deltoid tuberosity Line Slight, elongated ridge Temporal lines of the parietal bones Crest Ridge Iliac crest Holes Holes and depressions Foramen (holes through which blood vessels can pass through) Fossa Elongated basin Mandibular fossa Fovea Small pit Fovea capitis on the head of the femur Sulcus Groove Sigmoid sulcus of the temporal bones Canal Passage in bone Auditory canal Fissure Slit through bone Auricular fissure Foramen Hole through bone Foramen magnum in the occipital bone Meatus Opening into canal External auditory meatus Sinus Air-filled space in bone Nasal sinus TABLE6.2 200 6 • Bone Tissue and the Skeletal System FIGURE6.10 Bone Features The surface features of bones depend on their function, location, attachment of ligaments and tendons, or the penetration of blood vessels and nerves. Bone Cells and Tissue Bone contains a relatively small number of cells entrenched in a matrix of collagen fibers that provide a surface for inorganic salt crystals to adhere. These salt crystals form when calcium phosphate and calcium carbonate combine to create hydroxyapatite, which incorporates other inorganic salts like magnesium hydroxide, fluoride, and sulfate as it crystallizes, or calcifies, on the collagen fibers. The hydroxyapatite crystals give bones their hardness and strength, while the collagen fibers give them flexibility so that they are not brittle. Although bone cells compose a small amount of the bone volume, they are crucial to the function of bones. Four types of cells are found within bone tissue: osteoblasts, osteocytes, osteogenic cells, and osteoclasts (Figure 6.11). Access for free at openstax.org 6.3 • Bone Structure 201 FIGURE6.11 Bone Cells Four types of cells are found within bone tissue. Osteogenic cells are undifferentiated and develop into osteoblasts. When osteoblasts get trapped within the calcified matrix, their structure and function changes, and they become osteocytes. Osteoclasts develop from monocytes and macrophages and differ in appearance from other bone cells. Theosteoblastis the bone cell responsible for forming new bone and is found in the growing portions of bone, including the periosteum and endosteum. Osteoblasts, which do not divide, synthesize and secrete the collagen matrix and calcium salts. As the secreted matrix surrounding the osteoblast calcifies, the osteoblast become trapped within it; as a result, it changes in structure and becomes anosteocyte, the primary cell of mature bone and the most common type of bone cell. Each osteocyte is located in a space called alacunaand is surrounded by bone tissue. Osteocytes
