Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


anosteocyte, the primary cell of mature bone and the most common type of bone cell. Each osteocyte is located in a space called alacunaand is surrounded by bone tissue. Osteocytes maintain the mineral concentration of the matrix via the secretion of enzymes. Like osteoblasts, osteocytes lack mitotic activity. They can communicate with each other and receive nutrients via long cytoplasmic processes that extend throughcanaliculi(singular = canaliculus), channels within the bone matrix. If osteoblasts and osteocytes are incapable of mitosis, then how are they replenished when old ones die? The answer lies in the properties of a third category of bone cells—theosteogenic cell. These osteogenic cells are undifferentiated with high mitotic activity and they are the only bone cells that divide. Immature osteogenic cells are found in the deep layers of the periosteum and the marrow. They differentiate and develop into osteoblasts. The dynamic nature of bone means that new tissue is constantly formed, and old, injured, or unnecessary bone is dissolved for repair or for calcium release. The cell responsible for bone resorption, or breakdown, is theosteoclast. They are found on bone surfaces, are multinucleated, and originate from monocytes and macrophages, two types of white blood cells, not from osteogenic cells. Osteoclasts are continually breaking down old bone while osteoblasts are continually forming new bone. The ongoing balance between osteoblasts and osteoclasts is responsible for the constant but subtle reshaping of bone.Table 6.3reviews the bone cells, their functions, and locations. Bone Cells Cell type Function Location Osteogenic Develop into osteoblasts Deep layers of the periosteum and the marrow cells Growing portions of bone, including periosteum and Osteoblasts Bone formation endosteum TABLE6.3 202 6 • Bone Tissue and the Skeletal System Cell type Function Location Maintain mineral concentration of Osteocytes Entrapped in matrix matrix Bone surfaces and at sites of old, injured, or unneeded Osteoclasts Bone resorption bone TABLE6.3 Compact and Spongy Bone The differences between compact and spongy bone are best explored via their histology. Most bones contain compact and spongy osseous tissue, but their distribution and concentration vary based on the bone’s overall function. Compact bone is dense so that it can withstand compressive forces, while spongy (cancellous) bone has open spaces and supports shifts in weight distribution. Compact Bone Compact bone is the denser, stronger of the two types of bone tissue (Figure 6.12). It can be found under the periosteum and in the diaphyses of long bones,
