Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the bone in its deformed position. When a broken bone is manipulated and set into its natural position without surgery, the procedure is called a closed reduction.Open reductionrequires surgery to expose the fracture and reset the bone. While some fractures can be minor, others are quite severe and result in grave complications. For example, a fractured diaphysis of the femur has the potential to release fat globules into the bloodstream. These can become lodged in the capillary beds of the lungs, leading to respiratory distress and if not treated quickly, death. Types of Fractures Fractures are classified by their complexity, location, and other features (Figure 6.20).Table 6.4outlines common types of fractures. Some fractures may be described using more than one term because it may have the features of more than one type (e.g., an open transverse fracture). Access for free at openstax.org 6.5 • Fractures: Bone Repair 213 FIGURE6.20 Types of Fractures Compare healthy bone with different types of fractures: (a) closed fracture, (b) open fracture, (c) transverse fracture, (d) spiral fracture, (e) comminuted fracture, (f) impacted fracture, (g) greenstick fracture, and (h) oblique fracture. 214 6 • Bone Tissue and the Skeletal System Types of Fractures Type of fracture Description Transverse Occurs straight across the long axis of the bone Oblique Occurs at an angle that is not 90 degrees Spiral Bone segments are pulled apart as a result of a twisting motion Comminuted Several breaks result in many small pieces between two large segments Impacted One fragment is driven into the other, usually as a result of compression Greenstick A partial fracture in which only one side of the bone is broken Open (or A fracture in which at least one end of the broken bone tears through the skin; carries a high compound) risk of infection Closed (or A fracture in which the skin remains intact simple) TABLE6.4 Bone Repair When a bone breaks, blood flows from any vessel torn by the fracture. These vessels could be in the periosteum, osteons, and/or medullary cavity. The blood begins to clot, and about six to eight hours after the fracture, the clotting blood has formed afracture hematoma(Figure 6.21a). The disruption of blood flow to the bone results in the death of bone cells around the fracture. FIGURE6.21 Stages in Fracture Repair The healing of a bone fracture follows a series of progressive steps: (a) A fracture hematoma forms. (b)
