Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


death of bone cells around the fracture. FIGURE6.21 Stages in Fracture Repair The healing of a bone fracture follows a series of progressive steps: (a) A fracture hematoma forms. (b) Internal and external calli form. (c) Cartilage of the calli is replaced by trabecular bone. (d) Remodeling occurs. Within about 48 hours after the fracture, chondrocytes from the endosteum have created aninternal callus(plural = calli) by secreting a fibrocartilaginous matrix between the two ends of the broken bone, while the periosteal chondrocytes and osteoblasts create anexternal callusof hyaline cartilage and bone, respectively, around the outside of the break (Figure 6.21b). This stabilizes the fracture. Over the next several weeks, osteoclasts resorb the dead bone; osteogenic cells become active, divide, and differentiate into osteoblasts. The cartilage in the calli is replaced by trabecular bone via endochondral ossification (Figure 6.21c). Eventually, the internal and external calli unite, compact bone replaces spongy bone at the outer margins of the Access for free at openstax.org 6.6 • Exercise, Nutrition, Hormones, and Bone Tissue 215 fracture, and healing is complete. A slight swelling may remain on the outer surface of the bone, but quite often, that region undergoes remodeling (Figure 6.21d), and no external evidence of the fracture remains. INTERACTIVE LINK Visit thiswebsite( review different types of fractures and then take a short self-assessment quiz. 6.6 Exercise, Nutrition, Hormones, and Bone Tissue LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the effect exercise has on bone tissue • List the nutrients that affect bone health • Discuss the role those nutrients play in bone health • Describe the effects of hormones on bone tissue All of the organ systems of your body are interdependent, and the skeletal system is no exception. The food you take in via your digestive system and the hormones secreted by your endocrine system affect your bones. Even using your muscles to engage in exercise has an impact on your bones. Exercise and Bone Tissue During long space missions, astronauts can lose approximately 1 to 2 percent of their bone mass per month. This loss of bone mass is thought to be caused by the lack of mechanical stress on astronauts’ bones due to the low gravitational forces in space. Lack of mechanical stress causes bones to lose mineral salts and collagen fibers, and thus strength. Similarly, mechanical stress stimulates the deposition of mineral
