Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


skin triggers the body to produce its own vitamin D (Figure 6.22), but many people, especially those of darker complexion and those living in northern latitudes where the sun’s rays are not as strong, are deficient in vitamin D. In cases of deficiency, a doctor can prescribe a vitamin D supplement. 216 6 • Bone Tissue and the Skeletal System FIGURE6.22 Synthesis of Vitamin D Sunlight is one source of vitamin D. Other Nutrients Vitamin K also supports bone mineralization and may have a synergistic role with vitamin D in the regulation of bone growth. Green leafy vegetables are a good source of vitamin K. The minerals magnesium and fluoride may also play a role in supporting bone health. While magnesium is only found in trace amounts in the human body, more than 60 percent of it is in the skeleton, suggesting it plays a role in the structure of bone. Fluoride can displace the hydroxyl group in bone’s hydroxyapatite crystals and form fluorapatite. Similar to its effect on dental enamel, fluorapatite helps stabilize and strengthen bone mineral. Fluoride can also enter spaces within hydroxyapatite crystals, thus increasing their density. Omega-3 fatty acids have long been known to reduce inflammation in various parts of the body. Inflammation can interfere with the function of osteoblasts, so consuming omega-3 fatty acids, in the diet or in supplements, may also help enhance production of new osseous tissue.Table 6.5summarizes the role of nutrients in bone health. Access for free at openstax.org 6.6 • Exercise, Nutrition, Hormones, and Bone Tissue 217 Nutrients and Bone Health Nutrient Role in bone health Needed to make calcium phosphate and calcium carbonate, which form the hydroxyapatite Calcium crystals that give bone its hardness Vitamin D Needed for calcium absorption Vitamin K Supports bone mineralization; may have synergistic effect with vitamin D Magnesium Structural component of bone Fluoride Structural component of bone Omega-3 fatty Reduces inflammation that may interfere with osteoblast function acids TABLE6.5 Hormones and Bone Tissue The endocrine system produces and secretes hormones, many of which interact with the skeletal system. These hormones are involved in controlling bone growth, maintaining bone once it is formed, and remodeling it. Hormones That Influence Osteoblasts and/or Maintain the Matrix Several hormones are necessary for controlling bone growth and maintaining the bone matrix. The pituitary gland secretes growth hormone (GH), which, as its name implies, controls bone growth in several ways. It
