Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


parathyroid hormone (PTH) and calcitonin. PTH stimulates osteoclast proliferation and activity. As a result, calcium is released from the bones into the circulation, thus increasing the calcium ion concentration in the blood. PTH also promotes the reabsorption of calcium by the kidney tubules, which can affect calcium homeostasis (see below). The small intestine is also affected by PTH, albeit indirectly. Because another function of PTH is to stimulate the Access for free at openstax.org 6.7 • Calcium Homeostasis: Interactions of the Skeletal System and Other Organ Systems 219 synthesis of vitamin D, and because vitamin D promotes intestinal absorption of calcium, PTH indirectly increases calcium uptake by the small intestine. Calcitonin, a hormone secreted by the thyroid gland, has some effects that counteract those of PTH. Calcitonin inhibits osteoclast activity and stimulates calcium uptake by the bones, thus reducing the concentration of calcium ions in the blood. As evidenced by their opposing functions in maintaining calcium homeostasis, PTH and calcitonin are generallynotsecreted at the same time.Table 6.6summarizes the hormones that influence the skeletal system. Hormones That Affect the Skeletal System Hormone Role Growth Increases length of long bones, enhances mineralization, and improves bone density hormone Thyroxine Stimulates bone growth and promotes synthesis of bone matrix Sex Promote osteoblastic activity and production of bone matrix; responsible for adolescent growth hormones spurt; promote conversion of epiphyseal plate to epiphyseal line Calcitriol Stimulates absorption of calcium and phosphate from digestive tract Parathyroid Stimulates osteoclast proliferation and resorption of bone by osteoclasts; promotes reabsorption hormone of calcium by kidney tubules; indirectly increases calcium absorption by small intestine Calcitonin Inhibits osteoclast activity and stimulates calcium uptake by bones TABLE6.6 6.7 Calcium Homeostasis: Interactions of the Skeletal System and Other Organ Systems LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the effect of too much or too little calcium on the body • Explain the process of calcium homeostasis Calcium is not only the most abundant mineral in bone, it is also the most abundant mineral in the human body. Calcium ions are needed not only for bone mineralization but for tooth health, regulation of the heart rate and strength of contraction, blood coagulation, contraction of smooth and skeletal muscle cells, and regulation of nerve impulse conduction. The normal level of calcium in the blood is about 10 mg/dL. When the body cannot maintain this level, a person will
