Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the periosteum. Flat bones consist of two layers storage of minerals and fat, and hematopoiesis. of compact bone surrounding a layer of spongy bone. Together, the muscular system and skeletal system are Bone markings depend on the function and location of known as the musculoskeletal system. bones. Articulations are places where two bones meet. 6.2Bone Classification Projections stick out from the surface of the bone and provide attachment points for tendons and ligaments. Bones can be classified according to their shapes. Long Holes are openings or depressions in the bones. bones, such as the femur, are longer than they are wide. Short bones, such as the carpals, are Bone matrix consists of collagen fibers and organic approximately equal in length, width, and thickness. ground substance, primarily hydroxyapatite formed Flat bones are thin, but are often curved, such as the from calcium salts. Osteogenic cells develop into ribs. Irregular bones such as those of the face have no osteoblasts. Osteoblasts are cells that make new bone. characteristic shape. Sesamoid bones, such as the They become osteocytes, the cells of mature bone, patellae, are small and round, and are located in when they get trapped in the matrix. Osteoclasts tendons. engage in bone resorption. Compact bone is dense and composed of osteons, while spongy bone is less dense 6.3Bone Structure and made up of trabeculae. Blood vessels and nerves A hollow medullary cavity filled with yellow marrow enter the bone through the nutrient foramina to runs the length of the diaphysis of a long bone. The nourish and innervate bones. walls of the diaphysis are compact bone. The 6.4Bone Formation and Development epiphyses, which are wider sections at each end of a long bone, are filled with spongy bone and red marrow. All bone formation is a replacement process. Embryos The epiphyseal plate, a layer of hyaline cartilage, is develop a cartilaginous skeleton and various replaced by osseous tissue as the organ grows in membranes. During development, these are replaced length. The medullary cavity has a delicate by bone during the ossification process. In intramembranous ossification, bone develops directly Access for free at openstax.org 6 • Review Questions 223 from sheets of mesenchymal connective tissue. In osseous tissue. Growth hormone increases the length endochondral ossification, bone develops by replacing of long bones, enhances mineralization, and improves hyaline cartilage. Activity in the epiphyseal plate bone density. Thyroxine stimulates bone growth and enables bones
