Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


length endochondral ossification, bone develops by replacing of long bones, enhances mineralization, and improves hyaline cartilage. Activity in the epiphyseal plate bone density. Thyroxine stimulates bone growth and enables bones to grow in length. Modeling allows promotes the synthesis of bone matrix. The sex bones to grow in diameter. Remodeling occurs as bone hormones (estrogen and testosterone) promote is resorbed and replaced by new bone. Osteogenesis osteoblastic activity and the production of bone matrix, imperfecta is a genetic disease in which collagen are responsible for the adolescent growth spurt, and production is altered, resulting in fragile, brittle bones. promote closure of the epiphyseal plates. Osteoporosis is a disease characterized by decreased bone mass 6.5Fractures: Bone Repair that is common in aging adults. Calcitriol stimulates the Fractured bones may be repaired by closed reduction digestive tract to absorb calcium and phosphate. or open reduction. Fractures are classified by their Parathyroid hormone (PTH) stimulates osteoclast complexity, location, and other features. Common proliferation and resorption of bone by osteoclasts. types of fractures are transverse, oblique, spiral, Vitamin D plays a synergistic role with PTH in comminuted, impacted, greenstick, open (or stimulating the osteoclasts. Additional functions of compound), and closed (or simple). Healing of PTH include promoting reabsorption of calcium by fractures begins with the formation of a hematoma, kidney tubules and indirectly increasing calcium followed by internal and external calli. Osteoclasts absorption from the small intestine. Calcitonin inhibits resorb dead bone, while osteoblasts create new bone osteoclast activity and stimulates calcium uptake by that replaces the cartilage in the calli. The calli bones. eventually unite, remodeling occurs, and healing is 6.7Calcium Homeostasis: Interactions of complete. the Skeletal System and Other Organ 6.6Exercise, Nutrition, Hormones, and Bone Systems Tissue Calcium homeostasis, i.e., maintaining a blood calcium Mechanical stress stimulates the deposition of mineral level of about 10 mg/dL, is critical for normal body salts and collagen fibers within bones. Calcium, the functions. Hypocalcemia can result in problems with predominant mineral in bone, cannot be absorbed from blood coagulation, muscle contraction, nerve the small intestine if vitamin D is lacking. Vitamin K functioning, and bone strength. Hypercalcemia can supports bone mineralization and may have a result in lethargy, sluggish reflexes, constipation and synergistic role with vitamin D. Magnesium and loss of appetite, confusion, and coma. Calcium fluoride, as structural elements, play a supporting role homeostasis is controlled by PTH, vitamin D, and in bone health.
