Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


36. With respect to their direct effects on osseous 38. All of the following play a role in calcium tissue, which pair of hormones has actions that homeostasis except oppose each other? a. thyroxine a. estrogen and testosterone b. calcitonin b. calcitonin and calcitriol c. parathyroid hormone c. estrogen and progesterone d. vitamin D d. calcitonin and parathyroid hormone 39. Which of the following is most likely to be released when blood calcium levels are elevated? a. thyroxine b. calcitonin c. parathyroid hormone d. vitamin D Critical Thinking Questions 40. The skeletal system is composed of bone and 48. In terms of origin and composition, what are the cartilage and has many functions. Choose three of differences between an internal callus and an these functions and discuss what features of the external callus? skeletal system allow it to accomplish these 49. If you were a dietician who had a young female functions. patient with a family history of osteoporosis, what 41. What are the structural and functional differences foods would you suggest she include in her diet? between a tarsal and a metatarsal? Why? 42. What are the structural and functional differences 50. During the early years of space exploration our between the femur and the patella? astronauts, who had been floating in space, would 43. If the articular cartilage at the end of one of your return to earth showing significant bone loss long bones were to degenerate, what symptoms dependent on how long they were in space. do you think you would experience? Why? Discuss how this might happen and what could be 44. In what ways is the structural makeup of compact done to alleviate this condition. and spongy bone well suited to their respective 51. An individual with very low levels of vitamin D functions? presents themselves to you complaining of 45. In what ways do intramembranous and seemingly fragile bones. Explain how these might endochondral ossification differ? be connected. 46. Considering how a long bone develops, what are 52. Describe the effects caused when the parathyroid the similarities and differences between a primary gland fails to respond to calcium bound to its and a secondary ossification center? receptors. 47. What is the difference between closed reduction and open reduction? In what type of fracture would closed reduction most likely occur? In what type of fracture would open reduction most likely occur? Access for free at
