Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


objects or turn your head and trunk. In addition to providing for support and movements of the body, the skeleton has protective and storage functions. It protects the internal organs, including the brain, spinal cord, heart, lungs, and pelvic organs. The bones of the skeleton serve as the primary storage site for important minerals such as calcium and phosphate. The bone marrow found within bones stores fat and houses the blood-cell producing tissue of the body. The skeleton is subdivided into two major divisions—the axial and appendicular. The Axial Skeleton The skeleton is subdivided into two major divisions—the axial and appendicular. Theaxial skeletonforms the vertical, central axis of the body and includes all bones of the head, neck, chest, and back (Figure 7.2). It serves to protect the brain, spinal cord, heart, and lungs. It also serves as the attachment site for muscles that move the head, neck, and back, and for muscles that act across the shoulder and hip joints to move their corresponding limbs. The axial skeleton of the adult consists of 80 bones, including theskull, thevertebral column, and thethoracic cage. The skull is formed by 22 bones. Also associated with the head are an additional seven bones, including the hyoid boneand theear ossicles(three small bones found in each middle ear). The vertebral column consists of 24 bones, each called avertebra, plus thesacrumandcoccyx. The thoracic cage includes the 12 pairs ofribs, and the sternum, the flattened bone of the anterior chest. Access for free at openstax.org 7.2 • The Skull 229 FIGURE7.2 Axial and Appendicular Skeleton The axial skeleton supports the head, neck, back, and chest and thus forms the vertical axis of the body. It consists of the skull, vertebral column (including the sacrum and coccyx), and the thoracic cage, formed by the ribs and sternum. The appendicular skeleton is made up of all bones of the upper and lower limbs. The Appendicular Skeleton Theappendicular skeletonincludes all bones of the upper and lower limbs, plus the bones that attach each limb to the axial skeleton. There are 126 bones in the appendicular skeleton of an adult. The bones of the appendicular skeleton are covered in a separate chapter. 7.2 The Skull LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • List and identify the bones of the brain case and face • Locate the major suture lines of the skull and name
