Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


this section, you will be able to: • List and identify the bones of the brain case and face • Locate the major suture lines of the skull and name the bones associated with each • Locate and define the boundaries of the anterior, middle, and posterior cranial fossae, the temporal fossa, and infratemporal fossa • Define the paranasal sinuses and identify the location of each • Name the bones that make up the walls of the orbit and identify the openings associated with the orbit • Identify the bones and structures that form the nasal septum and nasal conchae, and locate the hyoid bone • Identify the bony openings of the skull Thecranium(skull) is the skeletal structure of the head that supports the face and protects the brain. It is subdivided into thefacial bonesand thebrain case, or cranial vault (Figure 7.3). The facial bones underlie the facial 230 7 • Axial Skeleton structures, form the nasal cavity, enclose the eyeballs, and support the teeth of the upper and lower jaws. The rounded brain case surrounds and protects the brain and houses the middle and inner ear structures. In the adult, the skull consists of 22 individual bones, 21 of which are immobile and united into a single unit. The 22nd bone is themandible(lower jaw), which is the only moveable bone of the skull. FIGURE7.3 Parts of the Skull The skull consists of the rounded brain case that houses the brain and the facial bones that form the upper and lower jaws, nose, orbits, and other facial structures. INTERACTIVE LINK Watch thisvideo( view a rotating and exploded skull, with color-coded bones. Which bone (yellow) is centrally located and joins with most of the other bones of the skull? Anterior View of Skull The anterior skull consists of the facial bones and provides the bony support for the eyes and structures of the face. This view of the skull is dominated by the openings of the orbits and the nasal cavity. Also seen are the upper and lower jaws, with their respective teeth (Figure 7.4). Theorbitis the bony socket that houses the eyeball and muscles that move the eyeball or open the upper eyelid. The upper margin of the anterior orbit is thesupraorbital margin. Located near the midpoint of the supraorbital margin is a small opening called thesupraorbital foramen. This provides for passage of a sensory nerve to the skin of
