Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


is thesupraorbital margin. Located near the midpoint of the supraorbital margin is a small opening called thesupraorbital foramen. This provides for passage of a sensory nerve to the skin of the forehead. Below the orbit is theinfraorbital foramen, which is the point of emergence for a sensory nerve that supplies the anterior face below the orbit. Access for free at openstax.org 7.2 • The Skull 231 FIGURE7.4 Anterior View of Skull An anterior view of the skull shows the bones that form the forehead, orbits (eye sockets), nasal cavity, nasal septum, and upper and lower jaws. Inside the nasal area of the skull, thenasal cavityis divided into halves by thenasal septum. The upper portion of the nasal septum is formed by theperpendicular plate of the ethmoid boneand the lower portion is thevomer bone. Each side of the nasal cavity is triangular in shape, with a broad inferior space that narrows superiorly. When looking into the nasal cavity from the front of the skull, two bony plates are seen projecting from each lateral wall. The larger of these is theinferior nasal concha, an independent bone of the skull. Located just above the inferior concha is themiddle nasal concha, which is part of the ethmoid bone. A third bony plate, also part of the ethmoid bone, is thesuperior nasal concha. It is much smaller and out of sight, above the middle concha. The superior nasal concha is located just lateral to the perpendicular plate, in the upper nasal cavity. Lateral View of Skull A view of the lateral skull is dominated by the large, rounded brain case above and the upper and lower jaws with their teeth below (Figure 7.5). Separating these areas is the bridge of bone called the zygomatic arch. The zygomatic archis the bony arch on the side of skull that spans from the area of the cheek to just above the ear canal. It is formed by the junction of two bony processes: a short anterior component, thetemporal process of the zygomatic bone(the cheekbone) and a longer posterior portion, thezygomatic process of the temporal bone, extending forward from the temporal bone. Thus the temporal process (anteriorly) and the zygomatic process (posteriorly) join together, like the two ends of a drawbridge, to form the zygomatic arch. One of the major muscles that pulls the mandible upward during biting and chewing arises from the zygomatic arch. On the lateral side
