Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


a drawbridge, to form the zygomatic arch. One of the major muscles that pulls the mandible upward during biting and chewing arises from the zygomatic arch. On the lateral side of the brain case, above the level of the zygomatic arch, is a shallow space called thetemporal fossa. Below the level of the zygomatic arch and deep to the vertical portion of the mandible is another space called theinfratemporal fossa. Both the temporal fossa and infratemporal fossa contain muscles that act on the mandible during chewing. 232 7 • Axial Skeleton FIGURE7.5 Lateral View of Skull The lateral skull shows the large rounded brain case, zygomatic arch, and the upper and lower jaws. The zygomatic arch is formed jointly by the zygomatic process of the temporal bone and the temporal process of the zygomatic bone. The shallow space above the zygomatic arch is the temporal fossa. The space inferior to the zygomatic arch and deep to the posterior mandible is the infratemporal fossa. Bones of the Brain Case The brain case contains and protects the brain. The interior space that is almost completely occupied by the brain is called thecranial cavity. This cavity is bounded superiorly by the rounded top of the skull, which is called the calvaria(skullcap), and the lateral and posterior sides of the skull. The bones that form the top and sides of the brain case are usually referred to as the “flat” bones of the skull. The floor of the brain case is referred to as the base of the skull. This is a complex area that varies in depth and has numerous openings for the passage of cranial nerves, blood vessels, and the spinal cord. Inside the skull, the base is subdivided into three large spaces, called theanterior cranial fossa,middle cranial fossa, andposterior cranial fossa(fossa = “trench or ditch”) (Figure 7.6). From anterior to posterior, the fossae increase in depth. The shape and depth of each fossa corresponds to the shape and size of the brain region that each houses. The boundaries and openings of the cranial fossae (singular = fossa) will be described in a later section. Access for free at openstax.org 7.2 • The Skull 233 FIGURE7.6 Cranial Fossae The bones of the brain case surround and protect the brain, which occupies the cranial cavity. The base of the brain case, which forms the floor of cranial cavity, is subdivided into the shallow
