Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


brain case surround and protect the brain, which occupies the cranial cavity. The base of the brain case, which forms the floor of cranial cavity, is subdivided into the shallow anterior cranial fossa, the middle cranial fossa, and the deep posterior cranial fossa. The brain case consists of eight bones. These include the paired parietal and temporal bones, plus the unpaired frontal, occipital, sphenoid, and ethmoid bones. Parietal Bone Theparietal boneforms most of the upper lateral side of the skull (seeFigure 7.5). These are paired bones, with the right and left parietal bones joining together at the top of the skull. Each parietal bone is also bounded anteriorly by the frontal bone, inferiorly by the temporal bone, and posteriorly by the occipital bone. Temporal Bone Thetemporal boneforms the lower lateral side of the skull (seeFigure 7.5). Common wisdom has it that the temporal bone (temporal = “time”) is so named because this area of the head (the temple) is where hair typically first turns gray, indicating the passage of time. The temporal bone is subdivided into several regions (Figure 7.7). The flattened, upper portion is the squamous portion of the temporal bone. Below this area and projecting anteriorly is the zygomatic process of the temporal bone, which forms the posterior portion of the zygomatic arch. Posteriorly is the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. Projecting inferiorly from this region is a large prominence, themastoid process, which serves as a muscle attachment site. The mastoid process can easily be felt on the side of the head just behind your earlobe. On the interior of the skull, the petrous portion of each temporal bone forms the prominent, diagonally orientedpetrous ridgein the floor of the cranial cavity. Located inside each petrous ridge are small cavities that house the structures of the middle and inner ears. 234 7 • Axial Skeleton FIGURE7.7 Temporal Bone A lateral view of the isolated temporal bone shows the squamous, mastoid, and zygomatic portions of the temporal bone. Important landmarks of the temporal bone, as shown inFigure 7.8, include the following: • External acoustic meatus(ear canal)—This is the large opening on the lateral side of the skull that is associated with the ear. • Internal acoustic meatus—This opening is located inside the cranial cavity, on the medial side of the petrous ridge. It connects to the middle and inner ear cavities of the temporal bone. • Mandibular fossa—This is
