Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


(petrous portion of temporal bone) separates the middle and posterior cranial fossae. Frontal Bone Thefrontal boneis the single bone that forms the forehead. At its anterior midline, between the eyebrows, there is a slight depression called theglabella(seeFigure 7.5). The frontal bone also forms the supraorbital margin of the orbit. Near the middle of this margin, is the supraorbital foramen, the opening that provides passage for a sensory nerve to the forehead. The frontal bone is thickened just above each supraorbital margin, forming rounded brow 236 7 • Axial Skeleton ridges. These are located just behind your eyebrows and vary in size among individuals, although they are generally larger in males. Inside the cranial cavity, the frontal bone extends posteriorly. This flattened region forms both the roof of the orbit below and the floor of the anterior cranial cavity above (seeFigure 7.8b). Occipital Bone Theoccipital boneis the single bone that forms the posterior skull and posterior base of the cranial cavity (Figure 7.9; see alsoFigure 7.8). On its outside surface, at the posterior midline, is a small protrusion called theexternal occipital protuberance, which serves as an attachment site for a ligament of the posterior neck. Lateral to either side of this bump is asuperior nuchal line(nuchal = “nape” or “posterior neck”). The nuchal lines represent the most superior point at which muscles of the neck attach to the skull, with only the scalp covering the skull above these lines. On the base of the skull, the occipital bone contains the large opening of theforamen magnum, which allows for passage of the spinal cord as it exits the skull. On either side of the foramen magnum is an oval-shaped occipital condyle. These condyles form joints with the first cervical vertebra and thus support the skull on top of the vertebral column. FIGURE7.9 Posterior View of Skull This view of the posterior skull shows attachment sites for muscles and joints that support the skull. Sphenoid Bone Thesphenoid boneis a single, complex bone of the central skull (Figure 7.10). It serves as a “keystone” bone, because it joins with almost every other bone of the skull. The sphenoid forms much of the base of the central skull (seeFigure 7.8) and also extends laterally to contribute to the sides of the skull (seeFigure 7.5). Inside the cranial cavity, the right and leftlesser wings of the sphenoid bone, which resemble the wings of a flying bird,
