Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


contribute to the sides of the skull (seeFigure 7.5). Inside the cranial cavity, the right and leftlesser wings of the sphenoid bone, which resemble the wings of a flying bird, form the lip of a prominent ridge that marks the boundary between the anterior and middle cranial fossae. Thesella turcica (“Turkish saddle”) is located at the midline of the middle cranial fossa. This bony region of the sphenoid bone is named for its resemblance to the horse saddles used by the Ottoman Turks, with a high back and a tall front. The rounded depression in the floor of the sella turcica is thehypophyseal (pituitary) fossa, which houses the pea- sized pituitary (hypophyseal) gland. Thegreater wings of the sphenoid boneextend laterally to either side away from the sella turcica, where they form the anterior floor of the middle cranial fossa. The greater wing is best seen on the outside of the lateral skull, where it forms a rectangular area immediately anterior to the squamous portion of the temporal bone. On the inferior aspect of the skull, each half of the sphenoid bone forms two thin, vertically oriented bony plates. These are themedial pterygoid plateandlateral pterygoid plate(pterygoid = “wing-shaped”). The right and left medial pterygoid plates form the posterior, lateral walls of the nasal cavity. The somewhat larger lateral pterygoid plates serve as attachment sites for chewing muscles that fill the infratemporal space and act on the mandible. Access for free at openstax.org 7.2 • The Skull 237 FIGURE7.10 Sphenoid Bone Shown in isolation in (a) superior and (b) posterior views, the sphenoid bone is a single midline bone that forms the anterior walls and floor of the middle cranial fossa. It has a pair of lesser wings and a pair of greater wings. The sella turcica surrounds the hypophyseal fossa. Projecting downward are the medial and lateral pterygoid plates. The sphenoid has multiple openings for the passage of nerves and blood vessels, including the optic canal, superior orbital fissure, foramen rotundum, foramen ovale, and foramen spinosum. Ethmoid Bone Theethmoid boneis a single, midline bone that forms the roof and lateral walls of the upper nasal cavity, the upper portion of the nasal septum, and contributes to the medial wall of the orbit (Figure 7.11andFigure 7.12). On the interior of the skull, the ethmoid also forms a portion of the floor of the anterior cranial cavity (seeFigure 7.8b). Within the nasal cavity,
