Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


repair is required to correct cleft palate defects. 242 7 • Axial Skeleton Zygomatic Bone Thezygomatic boneis also known as the cheekbone. Each of the paired zygomatic bones forms much of the lateral wall of the orbit and the lateral-inferior margins of the anterior orbital opening (seeFigure 7.4). The short temporal process of the zygomatic bone projects posteriorly, where it forms the anterior portion of the zygomatic arch (see Figure 7.5). Nasal Bone Thenasal boneis one of two small bones that articulate (join) with each other to form the bony base (bridge) of the nose. They also support the cartilages that form the lateral walls of the nose (seeFigure 7.11). These are the bones that are damaged when the nose is broken. Lacrimal Bone Eachlacrimal boneis a small, rectangular bone that forms the anterior, medial wall of the orbit (seeFigure 7.4and Figure 7.5). The anterior portion of the lacrimal bone forms a shallow depression called thelacrimal fossa, and extending inferiorly from this is thenasolacrimal canal. The lacrimal fluid (tears of the eye), which serves to maintain the moist surface of the eye, drains at the medial corner of the eye into the nasolacrimal canal. This duct then extends downward to open into the nasal cavity, behind the inferior nasal concha. In the nasal cavity, the lacrimal fluid normally drains posteriorly, but with an increased flow of tears due to crying or eye irritation, some fluid will also drain anteriorly, thus causing a runny nose. Inferior Nasal Conchae The right and left inferior nasal conchae form a curved bony plate that projects into the nasal cavity space from the lower lateral wall (seeFigure 7.13). The inferior concha is the largest of the nasal conchae and can easily be seen when looking into the anterior opening of the nasal cavity. Vomer Bone The unpaired vomer bone, often referred to simply as the vomer, is triangular-shaped and forms the posterior- inferior part of the nasal septum (seeFigure 7.11). The vomer is best seen when looking from behind into the posterior openings of the nasal cavity (seeFigure 7.8a). In this view, the vomer is seen to form the entire height of the nasal septum. A much smaller portion of the vomer can also be seen when looking into the anterior opening of the nasal cavity. Mandible Themandibleforms the lower jaw and is the only moveable bone of the skull. At the time of birth,
