Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


seen when looking into the anterior opening of the nasal cavity. Mandible Themandibleforms the lower jaw and is the only moveable bone of the skull. At the time of birth, the mandible consists of paired right and left bones, but these fuse together during the first year to form the single U-shaped mandible of the adult skull. Each side of the mandible consists of a horizontal body and posteriorly, a vertically orientedramus of the mandible(ramus = “branch”). The outside margin of the mandible, where the body and ramus come together is called theangle of the mandible(Figure 7.15). The ramus on each side of the mandible has two upward-going bony projections. The more anterior projection is the flattenedcoronoid process of the mandible, which provides attachment for one of the biting muscles. The posterior projection is thecondylar process of the mandible, which is topped by the oval-shapedcondyle. The condyle of the mandible articulates (joins) with the mandibular fossa and articular tubercle of the temporal bone. Together these articulations form the temporomandibular joint, which allows for opening and closing of the mouth (seeFigure 7.5). The broad U-shaped curve located between the coronoid and condylar processes is themandibular notch. Important landmarks for the mandible include the following: • Alveolar process of the mandible—This is the upper border of the mandibular body and serves to anchor the lower teeth. • Mental protuberance—The forward projection from the inferior margin of the anterior mandible that forms the chin (mental = “chin”). • Mental foramen—The opening located on each side of the anterior-lateral mandible, which is the exit site for a sensory nerve that supplies the chin. • Mylohyoid line—This bony ridge extends along the inner aspect of the mandibular body (seeFigure 7.11). The muscle that forms the floor of the oral cavity attaches to the mylohyoid lines on both sides of the mandible. • Mandibular foramen—This opening is located on the medial side of the ramus of the mandible. The opening Access for free at openstax.org 7.2 • The Skull 243 leads into a tunnel that runs down the length of the mandibular body. The sensory nerve and blood vessels that supply the lower teeth enter the mandibular foramen and then follow this tunnel. Thus, to numb the lower teeth prior to dental work, the dentist must inject anesthesia into the lateral wall of the oral cavity at a point prior to where this sensory nerve enters
