Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


vertebrae, designated T1–T12. The lower back contains the L1–L5 lumbar vertebrae. The single sacrum, which is also part of the pelvis, is formed by the fusion of five sacral vertebrae. Similarly, the coccyx, or tailbone, results from the fusion of four small coccygeal vertebrae. However, the sacral and coccygeal fusions do not start until age 20 and are not completed until middle age. An interesting anatomical fact is that almost all mammals have seven cervical vertebrae, regardless of body size. This means that there are large variations in the size of cervical vertebrae, ranging from the very small cervical vertebrae of a shrew to the greatly elongated vertebrae in the neck of a giraffe. In a full-grown giraffe, each cervical vertebra is 11 inches tall. Curvatures of the Vertebral Column The adult vertebral column does not form a straight line, but instead has four curvatures along its length (seeFigure 7.20). These curves increase the vertebral column’s strength, flexibility, and ability to absorb shock. When the load on the spine is increased, by carrying a heavy backpack for example, the curvatures increase in depth (become more curved) to accommodate the extra weight. They then spring back when the weight is removed. The four adult curvatures are classified as either primary or secondary curvatures. Primary curves are retained from the original fetal curvature, while secondary curvatures develop after birth. 250 7 • Axial Skeleton During fetal development, the body is flexed anteriorly into the fetal position, giving the entire vertebral column a single curvature that is concave anteriorly. In the adult, this fetal curvature is retained in two regions of the vertebral column as thethoracic curve, which involves the thoracic vertebrae, and thesacrococcygeal curve, formed by the sacrum and coccyx. Each of these is thus called aprimary curvebecause they are retained from the original fetal curvature of the vertebral column. Asecondary curvedevelops gradually after birth as the child learns to sit upright, stand, and walk. Secondary curves are concave posteriorly, opposite in direction to the original fetal curvature. Thecervical curveof the neck region develops as the infant begins to hold their head upright when sitting. Later, as the child begins to stand and then to walk, thelumbar curveof the lower back develops. In adults, the lumbar curve is generally deeper in females. Disorders associated with the curvature of the spine includekyphosis(an excessive posterior curvature of the thoracic region),lordosis(an excessive anterior curvature of
