Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the Vertebral Column (a) Scoliosis is an abnormal lateral bending of the vertebral column. (b) An excessive curvature of the upper thoracic vertebral column is called kyphosis. (c) Lordosis is an excessive curvature in the Access for free at openstax.org 7.3 • The Vertebral Column 251 lumbar region of the vertebral column. FIGURE7.22 Osteoporosis Osteoporosis is an age-related disorder that causes the gradual loss of bone density and strength. When the thoracic vertebrae are affected, there can be a gradual collapse of the vertebrae. This results in kyphosis, an excessive curvature of the thoracic region. INTERACTIVE LINK Osteoporosis is a common age-related bone disease in which bone density and strength is decreased. Watch this video( get a better understanding of how thoracic vertebrae may become weakened and may fracture due to this disease. How may vertebral osteoporosis contribute to kyphosis? General Structure of a Vertebra Within the different regions of the vertebral column, vertebrae vary in size and shape, but they all follow a similar structural pattern. A typical vertebra will consist of a body, a vertebral arch, and seven processes (Figure 7.23). The body is the anterior portion of each vertebra and is the part that supports the body weight. Because of this, the vertebral bodies progressively increase in size and thickness going down the vertebral column. The bodies of adjacent vertebrae are separated and strongly united by an intervertebral disc. Thevertebral archforms the posterior portion of each vertebra. It consists of four parts, the right and left pedicles and the right and left laminae. Eachpedicleforms one of the lateral sides of the vertebral arch. The pedicles are anchored to the posterior side of the vertebral body. Eachlaminaforms part of the posterior roof of the vertebral arch. The large opening between the vertebral arch and body is thevertebral foramen, which contains the spinal cord. In the intact vertebral column, the vertebral foramina of all of the vertebrae align to form thevertebral (spinal) canal, which serves as the bony protection and passageway for the spinal cord down the back. When the vertebrae are aligned together in the vertebral column, notches in the margins of the pedicles of adjacent vertebrae together form anintervertebral foramen, the opening through which a spinal nerve exits from the vertebral column (Figure 7.24). Seven processes arise from the vertebral arch. Each pairedtransverse processprojects laterally and arises from the junction point between the pedicle and lamina. The
