Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


inner aspect of the anterior arch of the atlas, where it is held in place by the transverse ligament. FIGURE7.25 Cervical Vertebrae A typical cervical vertebra has a small body, a bifid spinous process, transverse processes that have a transverse foramen and are curved for spinal nerve passage. The atlas (C1 vertebra) does not have a body or spinous process. It consists of an anterior and a posterior arch and elongated transverse processes. The axis (C2 vertebra) has the upward projecting dens, which articulates with the anterior arch of the atlas. 254 7 • Axial Skeleton Thoracic Vertebrae The bodies of thethoracic vertebraeare larger than those of cervical vertebrae (Figure 7.26). The characteristic feature for a typical midthoracic vertebra is the spinous process, which is long and has a pronounced downward angle that causes it to overlap the next inferior vertebra. The superior articular processes of thoracic vertebrae face anteriorly and the inferior processes face posteriorly. These orientations are important determinants for the type and range of movements available to the thoracic region of the vertebral column. Thoracic vertebrae have several additional articulation sites, each of which is called afacet, where a rib is attached. Most thoracic vertebrae have two facets located on the lateral sides of the body, each of which is called acostal facet(costal = “rib”). These are for articulation with the head (end) of a rib. An additional facet is located on the transverse process for articulation with the tubercle of a rib. FIGURE7.26 Thoracic Vertebrae A typical thoracic vertebra is distinguished by the spinous process, which is long and projects downward to overlap the next inferior vertebra. It also has articulation sites (facets) on the vertebral body and a transverse process for rib attachment. FIGURE7.27 Rib Articulation in Thoracic Vertebrae Thoracic vertebrae have superior and inferior articular facets on the vertebral body for articulation with the head of a rib, and a transverse process facet for articulation with the rib tubercle. Access for free at openstax.org 7.3 • The Vertebral Column 255 Lumbar Vertebrae Lumbar vertebraecarry the greatest amount of body weight and are thus characterized by the large size and thickness of the vertebral body (Figure 7.28). They have short transverse processes and a short, blunt spinous process that projects posteriorly. The articular processes are large, with the superior process facing backward and the inferior facing forward. FIGURE7.28 Lumbar Vertebrae Lumbar vertebrae are characterized by
