Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


blunt spinous process that projects posteriorly. The articular processes are large, with the superior process facing backward and the inferior facing forward. FIGURE7.28 Lumbar Vertebrae Lumbar vertebrae are characterized by having a large, thick body and a short, rounded spinous process. Sacrum and Coccyx The sacrum is a triangular-shaped bone that is thick and wide across its superior base where it is weight bearing and then tapers down to an inferior, non-weight bearing apex (Figure 7.29). It is formed by the fusion of five sacral vertebrae, a process that does not begin until after the age of 20. On the anterior surface of the older adult sacrum, the lines of vertebral fusion can be seen as four transverse ridges. On the posterior surface, running down the midline, is themedian sacral crest, a bumpy ridge that is the remnant of the fused spinous processes (median = “midline”; while medial = “toward, but not necessarily at, the midline”). Similarly, the fused transverse processes of the sacral vertebrae form thelateral sacral crest. Thesacral promontoryis the anterior lip of the superior base of the sacrum. Lateral to this is the roughened auricular surface, which joins with the ilium portion of the hipbone to form the immobile sacroiliac joints of the pelvis. Passing inferiorly through the sacrum is a bony tunnel called thesacral canal, which terminates at thesacral hiatusnear the inferior tip of the sacrum. The anterior and posterior surfaces of the sacrum have a series of paired openings calledsacral foramina(singular = foramen) that connect to the sacral canal. Each of these openings is called aposterior (dorsal) sacral foramenoranterior (ventral) sacral foramen. These openings allow for the anterior and posterior branches of the sacral spinal nerves to exit the sacrum. Thesuperior articular process of the sacrum, one of which is found on either side of the superior opening of the sacral canal, articulates with the inferior articular processes from the L5 vertebra. The coccyx, or tailbone, is derived from the fusion of four very small coccygeal vertebrae (seeFigure 7.29). It articulates with the inferior tip of the sacrum. It is not weight bearing in the standing position, but may receive some body weight when sitting. 256 7 • Axial Skeleton FIGURE7.29 Sacrum and Coccyx The sacrum is formed from the fusion of five sacral vertebrae, whose lines of fusion are indicated by the transverse ridges. The fused spinous processes form the median sacral crest, while
