Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


anchored posteriorly to the 12 thoracic vertebrae (T1–T12). The thoracic cage protects the heart and lungs. FIGURE7.32 Thoracic Cage The thoracic cage is formed by the (a) sternum and (b) 12 pairs of ribs with their costal cartilages. The ribs are anchored posteriorly to the 12 thoracic vertebrae. The sternum consists of the manubrium, body, and xiphoid process. The ribs are classified as true ribs (1–7) and false ribs (8–12). The last two pairs of false ribs are also known as floating ribs (11–12). Sternum The sternum is the elongated bony structure that anchors the anterior thoracic cage. It consists of three parts: the manubrium, body, and xiphoid process. Themanubriumis the wider, superior portion of the sternum. The top of the manubrium has a shallow, U-shaped border called thejugular (suprasternal) notch. This can be easily felt at the anterior base of the neck, between the medial ends of the clavicles. Theclavicular notchis the shallow depression located on either side at the superior-lateral margins of the manubrium. This is the site of the sternoclavicular joint, between the sternum and clavicle. The first ribs also attach to the manubrium. The elongated, central portion of the sternum is the body. The manubrium and body join together at thesternal angle, so called because the junction between these two components is not flat, but forms a slight bend. The second rib attaches to the sternum at the sternal angle. Since the first rib is hidden behind the clavicle, the second rib is the highest rib that can be identified by palpation. Thus, the sternal angle and second rib are important landmarks for the identification and counting of the lower ribs. Ribs 3–7 attach to the sternal body. The inferior tip of the sternum is thexiphoid process. This small structure is cartilaginous early in life, but gradually becomes ossified starting during middle age. Ribs Each rib is a curved, flattened bone that contributes to the wall of the thorax. The ribs articulate posteriorly with the T1–T12 thoracic vertebrae, and most attach anteriorly via their costal cartilages to the sternum. There are 12 pairs 260 7 • Axial Skeleton of ribs. The ribs are numbered 1–12 in accordance with the thoracic vertebrae. Parts of a Typical Rib The posterior end of a typical rib is called thehead of the rib(seeFigure 7.27). This region articulates primarily with the costal facet located on the body of the same numbered
