Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


The posterior end of a typical rib is called thehead of the rib(seeFigure 7.27). This region articulates primarily with the costal facet located on the body of the same numbered thoracic vertebra and to a lesser degree, with the costal facet located on the body of the next higher vertebra. Lateral to the head is the narrowedneck of the rib. A small bump on the posterior rib surface is thetubercle of the rib, which articulates with the facet located on the transverse process of the same numbered vertebra. The remainder of the rib is thebody of the rib(shaft). Just lateral to the tubercle is theangle of the rib, the point at which the rib has its greatest degree of curvature. The angles of the ribs form the most posterior extent of the thoracic cage. In the anatomical position, the angles align with the medial border of the scapula. A shallowcostal groovefor the passage of blood vessels and a nerve is found along the inferior margin of each rib. Rib Classifications The bony ribs do not extend anteriorly completely around to the sternum. Instead, each rib ends in acostal cartilage. These cartilages are made of hyaline cartilage and can extend for several inches. Most ribs are then attached, either directly or indirectly, to the sternum via their costal cartilage (seeFigure 7.32). The ribs are classified into three groups based on their relationship to the sternum. Ribs 1–7 are classified astrue ribs(vertebrosternal ribs). The costal cartilage from each of these ribs attaches directly to the sternum. Ribs 8–12 are calledfalse ribs(vertebrochondral ribs). The costal cartilages from these ribs do not attach directly to the sternum. For ribs 8–10, the costal cartilages are attached to the cartilage of the next higher rib. Thus, the cartilage of rib 10 attaches to the cartilage of rib 9, rib 9 then attaches to rib 8, and rib 8 is attached to rib 7. The last two false ribs (11–12) are also calledfloating ribs(vertebral ribs). These are short ribs that do not attach to the sternum at all. Instead, their small costal cartilages terminate within the musculature of the lateral abdominal wall. 7.5 Embryonic Development of the Axial Skeleton LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Discuss the two types of embryonic bone development within the skull • Describe the development of the vertebral column and thoracic cage The axial
