Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


compensated by upward growth by the bones of the lateral skull, resulting in a long, narrow, wedge-shaped head. This condition, known as scaphocephaly, accounts for approximately 50 percent of craniosynostosis abnormalities. Although the skull is misshapen, the brain still has adequate room to grow and thus there is no accompanying abnormal neurological development. In cases of complex craniosynostosis, several sutures close prematurely. The amount and degree of skull deformity is determined by the location and extent of the sutures involved. This results in more severe constraints on skull growth, which can alter or impede proper brain growth and development. Cases of craniosynostosis are usually treated with surgery. A team of physicians will open the skull along the fused suture, which will then allow the skull bones to resume their growth in this area. In some cases, parts of the skull will be removed and replaced with an artificial plate. The earlier after birth that surgery is performed, the better the outcome. After treatment, most children continue to grow and develop normally and do not exhibit any neurological problems. Access for free at openstax.org 7 • Key Terms 263 Key Terms alveolar process of the mandible upper border of vertebral column mandibular body that contains the lower teeth clavicular notch paired notches located on the alveolar process of the maxilla curved, inferior superior-lateral sides of the sternal manubrium, for margin of the maxilla that supports and anchors the articulation with the clavicle upper teeth coccyx small bone located at inferior end of the adult angle of the mandible rounded corner located at vertebral column that is formed by the fusion of four outside margin of the body and ramus junction coccygeal vertebrae; also referred to as the angle of the rib portion of rib with greatest curvature; “tailbone” together, the rib angles form the most posterior condylar process of the mandible thickened upward extent of the thoracic cage projection from posterior margin of mandibular anterior (ventral) sacral foramen one of the series of ramus paired openings located on the anterior (ventral) condyle oval-shaped process located at the top of side of the sacrum the condylar process of the mandible anterior arch anterior portion of the ring-like C1 coronal suture joint that unites the frontal bone to (atlas) vertebra the right and left parietal bones across the top of anterior cranial fossa shallowest and most anterior the skull cranial fossa of the
