Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


that are located in the thoracic region process of the zygomatic bone and posteriorly by (upper back) of the vertebral column the zygomatic process of the temporal bone transverse foramen opening found only in the zygomatic bone cheekbone; paired bones that transverse processes of cervical vertebrae contribute to the lateral orbit and anterior zygomatic transverse process paired bony processes that arch extends laterally from the vertebral arch of a zygomatic process of the temporal bone extension vertebra from the temporal bone that forms the posterior true ribs vertebrosternal ribs 1–7 that attach via their portion of the zygomatic arch Chapter Review 7.1Divisions of the Skeletal System 7.2The Skull The skeletal system includes all of the bones, The skull consists of the brain case and the facial cartilages, and ligaments of the body. It serves to bones. The brain case surrounds and protects the support the body, protect the brain and other internal brain, which occupies the cranial cavity inside the skull. organs, and provides a rigid structure upon which It consists of the rounded calvaria and a complex base. muscles can pull to generate body movements. It also The brain case is formed by eight bones, the paired stores fat and the tissue responsible for the production parietal and temporal bones plus the unpaired frontal, of blood cells. The skeleton is subdivided into two occipital, sphenoid, and ethmoid bones. The narrow parts. The axial skeleton forms a vertical axis that gap between the bones is filled with dense, fibrous includes the head, neck, back, and chest. It has 80 connective tissue that unites the bones. The sagittal bones and consists of the skull, vertebral column, and suture joins the right and left parietal bones. The thoracic cage. The adult vertebral column consists of coronal suture joins the parietal bones to the frontal 24 vertebrae plus the sacrum and coccyx. The thoracic bone, the lambdoid suture joins them to the occipital cage is formed by 12 pairs of ribs and the sternum. The bone, and the squamous suture joins them to the appendicular skeleton consists of 126 bones in the temporal bone. adult and includes all of the bones of the upper and The facial bones support the facial structures and form lower limbs plus the bones that anchor each limb to the upper and lower jaws. These consist of 14 bones, the axial skeleton. with the paired maxillary, palatine, zygomatic,
