Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


form lower limbs plus the bones that anchor each limb to the upper and lower jaws. These consist of 14 bones, the axial skeleton. with the paired maxillary, palatine, zygomatic, nasal, lacrimal, and inferior conchae bones and the unpaired 268 7 • Chapter Review vomer and mandible bones. The ethmoid bone also bone posteriorly. The temporal fossa is the shallow contributes to the formation of facial structures. The space located on the lateral skull above the level of the maxilla forms the upper jaw and the mandible forms zygomatic arch. The infratemporal fossa is located the lower jaw. The maxilla also forms the larger below the zygomatic arch and deep to the ramus of the anterior portion of the hard palate, which is completed mandible. by the smaller palatine bones that form the posterior The hyoid bone is located in the upper neck and does portion of the hard palate. not join with any other bone. It is held in position by The floor of the cranial cavity increases in depth from muscles and serves to support the tongue above, the front to back and is divided into three cranial fossae. larynx below, and the pharynx posteriorly. The anterior cranial fossa is located between the 7.3The Vertebral Column frontal bone and lesser wing of the sphenoid bone. A small area of the ethmoid bone, consisting of the crista The vertebral column forms the neck and back. The galli and cribriform plates, is located at the midline of vertebral column originally develops as 33 vertebrae, this fossa. The middle cranial fossa extends from the but is eventually reduced to 24 vertebrae, plus the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone to the petrous ridge sacrum and coccyx. The vertebrae are divided into the (petrous portion of temporal bone). The right and left cervical region (C1–C7 vertebrae), the thoracic region sides are separated at the midline by the sella turcica, (T1–T12 vertebrae), and the lumbar region (L1–L5 which surrounds the shallow hypophyseal fossa. vertebrae). The sacrum arises from the fusion of five Openings through the skull in the floor of the middle sacral vertebrae and the coccyx from the fusion of four fossa include the optic canal and superior orbital small coccygeal vertebrae. The vertebral column has fissure, which open into the posterior orbit, the four curvatures, the cervical, thoracic, lumbar, and foramen rotundum, foramen ovale, and foramen sacrococcygeal curves. The thoracic and
