Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


The vertebral column has fissure, which open into the posterior orbit, the four curvatures, the cervical, thoracic, lumbar, and foramen rotundum, foramen ovale, and foramen sacrococcygeal curves. The thoracic and spinosum, and the exit of the carotid canal with its sacrococcygeal curves are primary curves retained underlying foramen lacerum. The deep posterior from the original fetal curvature. The cervical and cranial fossa extends from the petrous ridge to the lumbar curves develop after birth and thus are occipital bone. Openings here include the large secondary curves. The cervical curve develops as the foramen magnum, plus the internal acoustic meatus, infant begins to hold up the head, and the lumbar curve jugular foramina, and hypoglossal canals. Additional appears with standing and walking. openings located on the external base of the skull A typical vertebra consists of an enlarged anterior include the stylomastoid foramen and the entrance to portion called the body, which provides weight-bearing the carotid canal. support. Attached posteriorly to the body is a vertebral The anterior skull has the orbits that house the arch, which surrounds and defines the vertebral eyeballs and associated muscles. The walls of the orbit foramen for passage of the spinal cord. The vertebral are formed by contributions from seven bones: the arch consists of the pedicles, which attach to the frontal, zygomatic, maxillary, palatine, ethmoid, vertebral body, and the laminae, which come together lacrimal, and sphenoid. Located at the superior margin to form the roof of the arch. Arising from the vertebral of the orbit is the supraorbital foramen, and below the arch are the laterally projecting transverse processes orbit is the infraorbital foramen. The mandible has two and the posteriorly oriented spinous process. The openings, the mandibular foramen on its inner surface superior articular processes project upward, where and the mental foramen on its external surface near they articulate with the downward projecting inferior the chin. The nasal conchae are bony projections from articular processes of the next higher vertebrae. the lateral walls of the nasal cavity. The large inferior A typical cervical vertebra has a small body, a bifid (Y- nasal concha is an independent bone, while the middle shaped) spinous process, and U-shaped transverse and superior conchae are parts of the ethmoid bone. processes with a transverse foramen. In addition to The nasal septum is formed by the perpendicular plate these characteristics, the axis (C2 vertebra) also has of the ethmoid
