Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


ethmoid bone. processes with a transverse foramen. In addition to The nasal septum is formed by the perpendicular plate these characteristics, the axis (C2 vertebra) also has of the ethmoid bone, the vomer bone, and the septal the dens projecting upward from the vertebral body. cartilage. The paranasal sinuses are air-filled spaces The atlas (C1 vertebra) differs from the other cervical located within the frontal, maxillary, sphenoid, and vertebrae in that it does not have a body, but instead ethmoid bones. consists of bony ring formed by the anterior and On the lateral skull, the zygomatic arch consists of two posterior arches. The atlas articulates with the dens parts, the temporal process of the zygomatic bone from the axis. A typical thoracic vertebra is anteriorly and the zygomatic process of the temporal distinguished by its long, downward projecting spinous Access for free at openstax.org 7 • Chapter Review 269 process. Thoracic vertebrae also have articulation of the ribs forms the most posterior portion of the facets on the body and transverse processes for thoracic cage. The costal groove in the inferior margin attachment of the ribs. Lumbar vertebrae support the of each rib carries blood vessels and a nerve. greatest amount of body weight and thus have a large, Anteriorly, each rib ends in a costal cartilage. True ribs thick body. They also have a short, blunt spinous (1–7) attach directly to the sternum via their costal process. The sacrum is triangular in shape. The median cartilage. The false ribs (8–12) either attach to the sacral crest is formed by the fused vertebral spinous sternum indirectly or not at all. Ribs 8–10 have their processes and the lateral sacral crest is derived from costal cartilages attached to the cartilage of the next the fused transverse processes. Anterior (ventral) and higher rib. The floating ribs (11–12) are short and do posterior (dorsal) sacral foramina allow branches of the not attach to the sternum or to another rib. sacral spinal nerves to exit the sacrum. The auricular 7.5Embryonic Development of the Axial surfaces are articulation sites on the lateral sacrum Skeleton that anchor the sacrum to the hipbones to form the pelvis. The coccyx is small and derived from the fusion Formation of the axial skeleton begins during early of four small vertebrae. embryonic development with the appearance of the rod-like notochord along the dorsal length of the early The intervertebral discs
