Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


of the axial skeleton begins during early of four small vertebrae. embryonic development with the appearance of the rod-like notochord along the dorsal length of the early The intervertebral discs fill in the gaps between the embryo. Repeating, paired blocks of tissue called bodies of adjacent vertebrae. They provide strong somites then appear along either side of notochord. As attachments and padding between the vertebrae. The the somites grow, they split into parts, one of which is outer, fibrous layer of a disc is called the anulus called a sclerotome. This consists of mesenchyme, the fibrosus. The gel-like interior is called the nucleus embryonic tissue that will become the bones, pulposus. The disc can change shape to allow for cartilages, and connective tissues of the body. movement between vertebrae. If the anulus fibrosus is weakened or damaged, the nucleus pulposus can Mesenchyme in the head region will produce the bones protrude outward, resulting in a herniated disc. of the skull via two different mechanisms. The bones of the brain case arise via intramembranous ossification The anterior longitudinal ligament runs along the full in which embryonic mesenchyme tissue converts length of the anterior vertebral column, uniting the directly into bone. At the time of birth, these bones are vertebral bodies. The supraspinous ligament is located separated by fontanelles, wide areas of fibrous posteriorly and interconnects the spinous processes of connective tissue. As the bones grow, the fontanelles the thoracic and lumbar vertebrae. In the neck, this are reduced to sutures, which allow for continued ligament expands to become the nuchal ligament. The growth of the skull throughout childhood. In contrast, nuchal ligament is attached to the cervical spinous the cranial base and facial bones are produced by the processes and superiorly to the base of the skull, out to process of endochondral ossification, in which the external occipital protuberance. The posterior mesenchyme tissue initially produces a hyaline longitudinal ligament runs within the vertebral canal cartilage model of the future bone. The cartilage model and unites the posterior sides of the vertebral bodies. allows for growth of the bone and is gradually The ligamentum flavum unites the lamina of adjacent converted into bone over a period of many years. vertebrae. The vertebrae, ribs, and sternum also develop via 7.4The Thoracic Cage endochondral ossification. Mesenchyme accumulates The thoracic cage protects the heart and lungs. It is around the notochord and produces hyaline cartilage
