Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


ribs, and sternum also develop via 7.4The Thoracic Cage endochondral ossification. Mesenchyme accumulates The thoracic cage protects the heart and lungs. It is around the notochord and produces hyaline cartilage composed of 12 pairs of ribs with their costal cartilages models of the vertebrae. The notochord largely and the sternum. The ribs are anchored posteriorly to disappears, but remnants of the notochord contribute the 12 thoracic vertebrae. The sternum consists of the to formation of the intervertebral discs. In the thorax manubrium, body, and xiphoid process. The region, a portion of the vertebral cartilage model splits manubrium and body are joined at the sternal angle, off to form the ribs. These then become attached which is also the site for attachment of the second ribs. anteriorly to the developing cartilage model of the sternum. Growth of the cartilage models for the Ribs are flattened, curved bones and are numbered vertebrae, ribs, and sternum allow for enlargement of 1–12. Posteriorly, the head of the rib articulates with the thoracic cage during childhood and adolescence. the costal facets located on the bodies of thoracic The cartilage models gradually undergo ossification vertebrae and the rib tubercle articulates with the facet and are converted into bone. located on the vertebral transverse process. The angle 270 7 • Interactive Link Questions Interactive Link Questions 1. Watch thisvideo( 4. Watch thisvideo( view a rotating and exploded skull with color-coded to learn about a herniated disc. Watch this second bones. Which bone (yellow) is centrally located and video( see one joins with most of the other bones of the skull? possible treatment for a herniated disc, removing 2. View thisanimation( the damaged portion of the disc. How could lifting a headblow)to see how a blow to the head may heavy object produce pain in a lower limb? produce a contrecoup (counterblow) fracture of the 5. Use thistool( basilar portion of the occipital bone on the base of identify the bones, intervertebral discs, and the skull. Why may a basilar fracture be life ligaments of the vertebral column. The thickest threatening? portions of the anterior longitudinal ligament and 3. Osteoporosis is a common age-related bone the supraspinous ligament are found in which disease in which bone density and strength is regions of the vertebral column? decreased. Watch thisvideo( 6. View thisvideo( osteoporosis)to get a better understanding of how to review the two processes that give rise to the
