Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


hyaline cartilage models, a. nuchal ligament which give rise to the flat bones of the skull b. ligamentum flavum c. supraspinous ligament 26. A fontanelle ________. d. anterior longitudinal ligament a. is the cartilage model for a vertebra that later is converted into bone 21. The sternum ________. b. gives rise to the facial bones and vertebrae a. consists of only two parts, the manubrium c. is the rod-like structure that runs the length of and xiphoid process the early embryo b. has the sternal angle located between the d. is the area of fibrous connective tissue found manubrium and body at birth between the brain case bones c. receives direct attachments from the costal cartilages of all 12 pairs of ribs d. articulates directly with the thoracic vertebrae Critical Thinking Questions 27. Define the two divisions of the skeleton. 30. Identify the major sutures of the skull, their 28. Discuss the functions of the axial skeleton. locations, and the bones united by each. 29. Define and list the bones that form the brain case or support the facial structures. 272 7 • Critical Thinking Questions 31. Describe the anterior, middle, and posterior 38. Define the parts and functions of the thoracic cranial fossae and their boundaries, and give the cage. midline structure that divides each into right and 39. Describe the parts of the sternum. left areas. 40. Discuss the parts of a typical rib. 32. Describe the parts of the nasal septum in both the 41. Define the classes of ribs. dry and living skull. 42. Discuss the processes by which the brain-case 33. Describe the vertebral column and define each bones of the skull are formed and grow during region. skull enlargement. 34. Describe a typical vertebra. 43. Discuss the process that gives rise to the base and 35. Describe the sacrum. facial bones of the skull. 36. Describe the structure and function of an 44. Discuss the development of the vertebrae, ribs, intervertebral disc. and sternum. 37. Define the ligaments of the vertebral column. Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 8 The Appendicular Skeleton Figure8.1 DancerThe appendicular skeleton consists of the upper and lower limb bones, the bones of the hands and feet, and the bones that anchor the limbs to the axial skeleton. (credit: Melissa Dooley/flickr) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Discuss the bones of the pectoral and
