Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


is complete, the shoulder and lateral clavicle fragment will drop due to the weight of the upper limb, causing the person to support the sagging limb with their other hand. Muscles acting across the shoulder will also pull the shoulder and lateral clavicle anteriorly and medially, causing the clavicle fragments to override. The clavicle overlies many important blood vessels and nerves for the upper limb, but fortunately, due to the anterior displacement of a broken clavicle, these structures are rarely affected when the clavicle is fractured. Scapula The scapula is also part of the pectoral girdle and thus plays an important role in anchoring the upper limb to the body. The scapula is located on the posterior side of the shoulder. It is surrounded by muscles on both its anterior (deep) and posterior (superficial) sides, and thus does not articulate with the ribs of the thoracic cage. The scapula has several important landmarks (Figure 8.4). The three margins or borders of the scapula, named for their positions within the body, are thesuperior border of the scapula, themedial border of the scapula, and the lateral border of the scapula. Thesuprascapular notchis located lateral to the midpoint of the superior border. The corners of the triangular scapula, at either end of the medial border, are thesuperior angle of the scapula, located between the medial and superior borders, and theinferior angle of the scapula, located between the medial and lateral borders. The inferior angle is the most inferior portion of the scapula, and is particularly important because it serves as the attachment point for several powerful muscles involved in shoulder and upper limb movements. The remaining corner of the scapula, between the superior and lateral borders, is the location of the glenoid cavity(glenoid fossa). This shallow depression articulates with the humerus bone of the arm to form the glenohumeral joint(shoulder joint). The small bony bumps located immediately above and below the glenoid cavity are thesupraglenoid tubercleand theinfraglenoid tubercle, respectively. These provide attachments for muscles of the arm. Access for free at openstax.org 8.2 • Bones of the Upper Limb 277 FIGURE8.4 Scapula The isolated scapula is shown here from its anterior (deep) side and its posterior (superficial) side. The scapula also has two prominent projections. Toward the lateral end of the superior border, between the suprascapular notch and glenoid cavity, is the hook-likecoracoid process(coracoid = “shaped like a crow’s beak”). This process projects
