Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


dislocation of the acromioclavicular joint can result. In this case, the acromion is thrust under the acromial end of the clavicle, resulting in ruptures of both the acromioclavicular and coracoclavicular ligaments. The scapula then separates from the clavicle, with the weight of the upper limb pulling the shoulder downward. This dislocation injury of the acromioclavicular joint is known as a “shoulder separation” and is common in contact sports such as hockey, football, or martial arts. 8.2 Bones of the Upper Limb LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Identify the divisions of the upper limb and describe the bones in each region • List the bones and bony landmarks that articulate at each joint of the upper limb 278 8 • The Appendicular Skeleton The upper limb is divided into three regions. These consist of thearm, located between the shoulder and elbow joints; theforearm, which is between the elbow and wrist joints; and thehand, which is located distal to the wrist. There are 30 bones in each upper limb (seeFigure 8.2). Thehumerusis the single bone of the upper arm, and the ulna(medially) and theradius(laterally) are the paired bones of the forearm. The base of the hand contains eight bones, each called acarpal bone, and the palm of the hand is formed by five bones, each called ametacarpal bone. The fingers and thumb contain a total of 14 bones, each of which is aphalanx bone of the hand. Humerus The humerus is the single bone of the upper arm region (Figure 8.5). At its proximal end is thehead of the humerus. This is the large, round, smooth region that faces medially. The head articulates with the glenoid cavity of the scapula to form the glenohumeral (shoulder) joint. The margin of the smooth area of the head is theanatomical neckof the humerus. Located on the lateral side of the proximal humerus is an expanded bony area called the greater tubercle. The smallerlesser tubercleof the humerus is found on the anterior aspect of the humerus. Both the greater and lesser tubercles serve as attachment sites for muscles that act across the shoulder joint. Passing between the greater and lesser tubercles is the narrowintertubercular groove (sulcus), which is also known as the bicipital groovebecause it provides passage for a tendon of the biceps brachii muscle. Thesurgical neckis located at the base of the expanded, proximal end of
