Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


is also known as the bicipital groovebecause it provides passage for a tendon of the biceps brachii muscle. Thesurgical neckis located at the base of the expanded, proximal end of the humerus, where it joins the narrowshaft of the humerus. The surgical neck is a common site of arm fractures. Thedeltoid tuberosityis a roughened, V-shaped region located on the lateral side in the middle of the humerus shaft. As its name indicates, it is the site of attachment for the deltoid muscle. FIGURE8.5 Humerus and Elbow Joint The humerus is the single bone of the upper arm region. It articulates with the radius and ulna bones of the forearm to form the elbow joint. Distally, the humerus becomes flattened. The prominent bony projection on the medial side is themedial epicondyle of the humerus. The much smallerlateral epicondyle of the humerusis found on the lateral side of the distal humerus. The roughened ridge of bone above the lateral epicondyle is thelateral supracondylar ridge. All of these areas are attachment points for muscles that act on the forearm, wrist, and hand. The powerful grasping Access for free at openstax.org 8.2 • Bones of the Upper Limb 279 muscles of the anterior forearm arise from the medial epicondyle, which is thus larger and more robust than the lateral epicondyle that gives rise to the weaker posterior forearm muscles. The distal end of the humerus has two articulation areas, which join the ulna and radius bones of the forearm to form theelbow joint. The more medial of these areas is thetrochlea, a spindle- or pulley-shaped region (trochlea = “pulley”), which articulates with the ulna bone. Immediately lateral to the trochlea is thecapitulum(“small head”), a knob-like structure located on the anterior surface of the distal humerus. The capitulum articulates with the radius bone of the forearm. Just above these bony areas are two small depressions. These spaces accommodate the forearm bones when the elbow is fully bent (flexed). Superior to the trochlea is thecoronoid fossa, which receives the coronoid process of the ulna, and above the capitulum is theradial fossa, which receives the head of the radius when the elbow is flexed. Similarly, the posterior humerus has theolecranon fossa, a larger depression that receives the olecranon process of the ulna when the forearm is fully extended. Ulna The ulna is the medial bone of the forearm. It runs parallel to the radius, which is the
