Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


olecranon process of the ulna when the forearm is fully extended. Ulna The ulna is the medial bone of the forearm. It runs parallel to the radius, which is the lateral bone of the forearm (Figure 8.6). The proximal end of the ulna resembles a crescent wrench with its large, C-shapedtrochlear notch. This region articulates with the trochlea of the humerus as part of the elbow joint. The inferior margin of the trochlear notch is formed by a prominent lip of bone called thecoronoid process of the ulna. Just below this on the anterior ulna is a roughened area called theulnar tuberosity. To the lateral side and slightly inferior to the trochlear notch is a small, smooth area called theradial notch of the ulna. This area is the site of articulation between the proximal radius and the ulna, forming theproximal radioulnar joint. The posterior and superior portions of the proximal ulna make up theolecranon process, which forms the bony tip of the elbow. FIGURE8.6 Ulna and Radius The ulna is located on the medial side of the forearm, and the radius is on the lateral side. These bones are attached to each other by an interosseous membrane. More distal is theshaft of the ulna. The lateral side of the shaft forms a ridge called theinterosseous border of the 280 8 • The Appendicular Skeleton ulna. This is the line of attachment for theinterosseous membrane of the forearm, a sheet of dense connective tissue that unites the ulna and radius bones. The small, rounded area that forms the distal end is thehead of the ulna. Projecting from the posterior side of the ulnar head is thestyloid process of the ulna, a short bony projection. This serves as an attachment point for a connective tissue structure that unites the distal ends of the ulna and radius. In the anatomical position, with the elbow fully extended and the palms facing forward, the arm and forearm do not form a straight line. Instead, the forearm deviates laterally by 5–15 degrees from the line of the arm. This deviation is called the carrying angle. It allows the forearm and hand to swing freely or to carry an object without hitting the hip. The carrying angle is larger in females to accommodate their wider pelvis. Radius The radius runs parallel to the ulna, on the lateral (thumb) side of the forearm (seeFigure 8.6). Thehead of the
