Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


is larger in females to accommodate their wider pelvis. Radius The radius runs parallel to the ulna, on the lateral (thumb) side of the forearm (seeFigure 8.6). Thehead of the radiusis a disc-shaped structure that forms the proximal end. The small depression on the surface of the head articulates with the capitulum of the humerus as part of the elbow joint, whereas the smooth, outer margin of the head articulates with the radial notch of the ulna at the proximal radioulnar joint. Theneck of the radiusis the narrowed region immediately below the expanded head. Inferior to this point on the medial side is theradial tuberosity, an oval-shaped, bony protuberance that serves as a muscle attachment point. Theshaft of the radiusis slightly curved and has a small ridge along its medial side. This ridge forms theinterosseous border of the radius, which, like the similar border of the ulna, is the line of attachment for the interosseous membrane that unites the two forearm bones. The distal end of the radius has a smooth surface for articulation with two carpal bones to form theradiocarpal jointor wrist joint (Figure 8.7andFigure 8.8). On the medial side of the distal radius is theulnar notch of the radius. This shallow depression articulates with the head of the ulna, which together form thedistal radioulnar joint. The lateral end of the radius has a pointed projection called thestyloid process of the radius. This provides attachment for ligaments that support the lateral side of the wrist joint. Compared to the styloid process of the ulna, the styloid process of the radius projects more distally, thereby limiting the range of movement for lateral deviations of the hand at the wrist joint. INTERACTIVE LINK Watch thisvideo( see how fractures of the distal radius bone can affect the wrist joint. Explain the problems that may occur if a fracture of the distal radius involves the joint surface of the radiocarpal joint of the wrist. Carpal Bones The wrist and base of the hand are formed by a series of eight small carpal bones (seeFigure 8.7). The carpal bones are arranged in two rows, forming a proximal row of four carpal bones and a distal row of four carpal bones. The bones in the proximal row, running from the lateral (thumb) side to the medial side, are thescaphoid(“boat- shaped”),lunate(“moon-shaped”),triquetrum(“three-cornered”), andpisiform(“pea-shaped”) bones. The small, rounded pisiform bone articulates with the anterior surface of the triquetrum
