Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


this bony landmark, thus sometimes producing a depression seen as a “dimple” located on the lower back. More inferiorly is theposterior inferior iliac spine. This is located at the inferior end of a large, roughened area called theauricular surface of the ilium. The auricular surface articulates with the auricular surface of the sacrum to form the sacroiliac joint. Both the posterior superior and posterior inferior iliac spines serve as attachment points for the muscles and very strong ligaments that support the sacroiliac joint. The shallow depression located on the anteromedial (internal) surface of the upper ilium is called theiliac fossa. The inferior margin of this space is formed by thearcuate line of the ilium, the ridge formed by the pronounced change in curvature between the upper and lower portions of the ilium. The large, inverted U-shaped indentation located on the posterior margin of the lower ilium is called thegreater sciatic notch. Ischium The ischium forms the posterolateral portion of the hip bone (seeFigure 8.13). The large, roughened area of the inferior ischium is theischial tuberosity. This serves as the attachment for the posterior thigh muscles and also carries the weight of the body when sitting. You can feel the ischial tuberosity if you wiggle your pelvis against the seat of a chair. Projecting superiorly and anteriorly from the ischial tuberosity is a narrow segment of bone called the ischial ramus. The slightly curved posterior margin of the ischium above the ischial tuberosity is thelesser sciatic notch. The bony projection separating the lesser sciatic notch and greater sciatic notch is theischial spine. Access for free at openstax.org 8.3 • The Pelvic Girdle and Pelvis 287 Pubis The pubis forms the anterior portion of the hip bone (seeFigure 8.13). The enlarged medial portion of the pubis is thepubic body. Located superiorly on the pubic body is a small bump called thepubic tubercle. Thesuperior pubic ramusis the segment of bone that passes laterally from the pubic body to join the ilium. The narrow ridge running along the superior margin of the superior pubic ramus is thepectineal lineof the pubis. The pubic body is joined to the pubic body of the opposite hip bone by the pubic symphysis. Extending downward and laterally from the body is theinferior pubic ramus. Thepubic archis the bony structure formed by the pubic symphysis, and the bodies and inferior pubic rami of the adjacent pubic bones. The inferior pubic
