Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


belonging to a person and not to an animal, the next step is to approximate the individual’s age, sex, race, and height. The forensic anthropologist does not determine the cause of death, but rather provides information to the forensic pathologist, who will use all of the data collected to make a final determination regarding the cause of death. 8.4 Bones of the Lower Limb LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Identify the divisions of the lower limb and describe the bones of each region • Describe the bones and bony landmarks that articulate at each joint of the lower limb 290 8 • The Appendicular Skeleton Like the upper limb, the lower limb is divided into three regions. Thethighis that portion of the lower limb located between the hip joint and knee joint. Thelegis specifically the region between the knee joint and the ankle joint. Distal to the ankle is thefoot. The lower limb contains 30 bones. These are the femur, patella, tibia, fibula, tarsal bones, metatarsal bones, and phalanges (seeFigure 8.2). Thefemuris the single bone of the thigh. Thepatellais the kneecap and articulates with the distal femur. Thetibiais the larger, weight-bearing bone located on the medial side of the leg, and thefibulais the thin bone of the lateral leg. The bones of the foot are divided into three groups. The posterior portion of the foot is formed by a group of seven bones, each of which is known as atarsal bone, whereas the mid-foot contains five elongated bones, each of which is ametatarsal bone. The toes contain 14 small bones, each of which is aphalanx bone of the foot. Femur The femur, or thigh bone, is the single bone of the thigh region (Figure 8.16). It is the longest and strongest bone of the body, and accounts for approximately one-quarter of a person’s total height. The rounded, proximal end is the head of the femur, which articulates with the acetabulum of the hip bone to form thehip joint. Thefovea capitisis a minor indentation on the medial side of the femoral head that serves as the site of attachment for theligament of the head of the femur. This ligament spans the femur and acetabulum, but is weak and provides little support for the hip joint. It does, however, carry an important artery that supplies the head of the femur. Access for free
