Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


and acetabulum, but is weak and provides little support for the hip joint. It does, however, carry an important artery that supplies the head of the femur. Access for free at openstax.org 8.4 • Bones of the Lower Limb 291 FIGURE8.16 Femur and Patella The femur is the single bone of the thigh region. It articulates superiorly with the hip bone at the hip joint, and inferiorly with the tibia at the knee joint. The patella only articulates with the distal end of the femur. The narrowed region below the head is theneck of the femur. This is a common area for fractures of the femur. The greater trochanteris the large, upward, bony projection located above the base of the neck. Multiple muscles that act across the hip joint attach to the greater trochanter, which, because of its projection from the femur, gives additional leverage to these muscles. The greater trochanter can be felt just under the skin on the lateral side of your upper thigh. Thelesser trochanteris a small, bony prominence that lies on the medial aspect of the femur, just below the neck. A single, powerful muscle attaches to the lesser trochanter. Running between the greater and lesser trochanters on the anterior side of the femur is the roughenedintertrochanteric line. The trochanters are also connected on the posterior side of the femur by the largerintertrochanteric crest. The elongatedshaft of the femurhas a slight anterior bowing or curvature. At its proximal end, the posterior shaft has thegluteal tuberosity, a roughened area extending inferiorly from the greater trochanter. More inferiorly, the gluteal tuberosity becomes continuous with thelinea aspera(“rough line”). This is the roughened ridge that passes distally along the posterior side of the mid-femur. Multiple muscles of the hip and thigh regions make long, thin attachments to the femur along the linea aspera. The distal end of the femur has medial and lateral bony expansions. On the lateral side, the smooth portion that covers the distal and posterior aspects of the lateral expansion is thelateral condyle of the femur. The roughened 292 8 • The Appendicular Skeleton area on the outer, lateral side of the condyle is thelateral epicondyle of the femur. Similarly, the smooth region of the distal and posterior medial femur is themedial condyle of the femur, and the irregular outer, medial side of this is themedial epicondyle of the femur. The lateral and medial condyles articulate with
