Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


length of the tibia. A small ridge running down the lateral side of the tibial shaft is theinterosseous border of the tibia. This is for the attachment of theinterosseous membrane of the leg, the sheet of dense connective tissue that unites the tibia and fibula bones. Located on the posterior side of the tibia is thesoleal line, a diagonally running, roughened ridge that begins below the base of the lateral condyle, and runs down and medially across the proximal third of the posterior tibia. Muscles of the posterior leg attach to this line. The large expansion found on the medial side of the distal tibia is themedial malleolus(“little hammer”). This forms the large bony bump found on the medial side of the ankle region. Both the smooth surface on the inside of the medial malleolus and the smooth area at the distal end of the tibia articulate with the talus bone of the foot as part of the ankle joint. On the lateral side of the distal tibia is a wide groove called thefibular notch. This area Access for free at openstax.org 8.4 • Bones of the Lower Limb 295 articulates with the distal end of the fibula, forming thedistal tibiofibular joint. Fibula The fibula is the slender bone located on the lateral side of the leg (seeFigure 8.18). The fibula does not bear weight. It serves primarily for muscle attachments and thus is largely surrounded by muscles. Only the proximal and distal ends of the fibula can be palpated. Thehead of the fibulais the small, knob-like, proximal end of the fibula. It articulates with the inferior aspect of the lateral tibial condyle, forming theproximal tibiofibular joint. The thinshaft of the fibulahas theinterosseous border of the fibula, a narrow ridge running down its medial side for the attachment of the interosseous membrane that spans the fibula and tibia. The distal end of the fibula forms thelateral malleolus, which forms the easily palpated bony bump on the lateral side of the ankle. The deep (medial) side of the lateral malleolus articulates with the talus bone of the foot as part of the ankle joint. The distal fibula also articulates with the fibular notch of the tibia. Tarsal Bones The posterior half of the foot is formed by seven tarsal bones (Figure 8.19). The most superior bone is thetalus. This has a relatively square-shaped, upper surface that articulates with the tibia and
