Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


of the foot is formed by seven tarsal bones (Figure 8.19). The most superior bone is thetalus. This has a relatively square-shaped, upper surface that articulates with the tibia and fibula to form theankle joint. Three areas of articulation form the ankle joint: The superomedial surface of the talus bone articulates with the medial malleolus of the tibia, the top of the talus articulates with the distal end of the tibia, and the lateral side of the talus articulates with the lateral malleolus of the fibula. Inferiorly, the talus articulates with thecalcaneus(heel bone), the largest bone of the foot, which forms the heel. Body weight is transferred from the tibia to the talus to the calcaneus, which rests on the ground. The medial calcaneus has a prominent bony extension called the sustentaculum tali(“support for the talus”) that supports the medial side of the talus bone. FIGURE8.19 Bones of the Foot The bones of the foot are divided into three groups. The posterior foot is formed by the seven tarsal bones. The mid-foot has the five metatarsal bones. The toes contain the phalanges. Thecuboidbone articulates with the anterior end of the calcaneus bone. The cuboid has a deep groove running 296 8 • The Appendicular Skeleton across its inferior surface, which provides passage for a muscle tendon. The talus bone articulates anteriorly with thenavicularbone, which in turn articulates anteriorly with the three cuneiform (“wedge-shaped”) bones. These bones are themedial cuneiform, theintermediate cuneiform, and thelateral cuneiform. Each of these bones has a broad superior surface and a narrow inferior surface, which together produce the transverse (medial-lateral) curvature of the foot. The navicular and lateral cuneiform bones also articulate with the medial side of the cuboid bone. INTERACTIVE LINK Use thistutorial( review the bones of the foot. Which tarsal bones are in the proximal, intermediate, and distal groups? Metatarsal Bones The anterior half of the foot is formed by the five metatarsal bones, which are located between the tarsal bones of the posterior foot and the phalanges of the toes (seeFigure 8.19). These elongated bones are numbered 1–5, starting with the medial side of the foot. The first metatarsal bone is shorter and thicker than the others. The second metatarsal is the longest. Thebase of the metatarsal boneis the proximal end of each metatarsal bone. These articulate with the cuboid or cuneiform bones. The base of the fifth metatarsal has a large, lateral
