Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


history of clubfoot. Previously, clubfoot required extensive surgery. Today, 90 percent of cases are successfully treated without surgery using new corrective casting techniques. The best chance for a full recovery requires that clubfoot treatment begin during the first 2 weeks after birth. Corrective casting gently stretches the foot, which is followed by the application of a holding cast to keep the foot in the proper position. This stretching and casting is repeated weekly for several weeks. In severe cases, surgery may also be required, after which the foot typically remains in a cast for 6 to 8 weeks. After the cast is removed following either surgical or nonsurgical treatment, the child will be required to wear a brace part-time (at night) for up to 4 years. In addition, special exercises will be prescribed, and the child must also wear special shoes. Close monitoring by the parents and adherence to postoperative instructions are imperative in minimizing the risk of relapse. 300 8 • The Appendicular Skeleton Despite these difficulties, treatment for clubfoot is usually successful, and the child will grow up to lead a normal, active life. Numerous examples of individuals born with a clubfoot who went on to successful careers include Dudley Moore (comedian and actor), Damon Wayans (comedian and actor), Troy Aikman (three-time Super Bowl-winning quarterback), Kristi Yamaguchi (Olympic gold medalist in figure skating), Mia Hamm (two- time Olympic gold medalist in soccer), and Charles Woodson (Heisman trophy and Super Bowl winner). Access for free at openstax.org 8 • Key Terms 301 Key Terms acetabulum large, cup-shaped cavity located on the bicipital groove intertubercular groove; narrow lateral side of the hip bone; formed by the junction groove located between the greater and lesser of the ilium, pubis, and ischium portions of the hip tubercles of the humerus bone calcaneus heel bone; posterior, inferior tarsal bone acromial end of the clavicle lateral end of the that forms the heel of the foot clavicle that articulates with the acromion of the capitate from the lateral side, the third of the four scapula distal carpal bones; articulates with the scaphoid acromial process acromion of the scapula and lunate proximally, the trapezoid laterally, the acromioclavicular joint articulation between the hamate medially, and primarily with the third acromion of the scapula and the acromial end of the metacarpal distally clavicle capitulum knob-like bony structure located anteriorly acromion flattened bony process that extends on the
