Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


with the trochlear notch of the ulna thigh portion of the lower limb located between the trochlear notch large, C-shaped depression located hip and knee joints on the anterior side of the proximal ulna; articulates tibia shin bone; the large, weight-bearing bone at the elbow with the trochlea of the humerus located on the medial side of the leg ulna bone located on the medial side of the forearm tibial tuberosity elevated area on the anterior ulnar notch of the radius shallow, smooth area surface of the proximal tibia located on the medial side of the distal radius; trapezium from the lateral side, the first of the four articulates with the head of the ulna at the distal distal carpal bones; articulates with the scaphoid radioulnar joint proximally, the first and second metacarpals ulnar tuberosity roughened area located on the distally, and the trapezoid medially anterior, proximal ulna inferior to the coronoid trapezoid from the lateral side, the second of the four process Chapter Review 8.1The Pectoral Girdle projects anteriorly, passing inferior to the lateral end of the clavicle. The pectoral girdle, consisting of the clavicle and the scapula, attaches each upper limb to the axial 8.2Bones of the Upper Limb skeleton. The clavicle is an anterior bone whose sternal Each upper limb is divided into three regions and end articulates with the manubrium of the sternum at contains a total of 30 bones. The upper arm is the the sternoclavicular joint. The sternal end is also region located between the shoulder and elbow joints. anchored to the first rib by the costoclavicular This area contains the humerus. The proximal humerus ligament. The acromial end of the clavicle articulates consists of the head, which articulates with the scapula with the acromion of the scapula at the at the glenohumeral joint, the greater and lesser acromioclavicular joint. This end is also anchored to tubercles separated by the intertubercular (bicipital) the coracoid process of the scapula by the groove, and the anatomical and surgical necks. The coracoclavicular ligament, which provides indirect humeral shaft has the roughened area of the deltoid support for the acromioclavicular joint. The clavicle tuberosity on its lateral side. The distal humerus is supports the scapula, transmits the weight and forces flattened, forming a lateral supracondylar ridge that from the upper limb to the body trunk, and protects the terminates at the small lateral epicondyle. The medial underlying nerves
