Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


and forces flattened, forming a lateral supracondylar ridge that from the upper limb to the body trunk, and protects the terminates at the small lateral epicondyle. The medial underlying nerves and blood vessels. side of the distal humerus has the large, medial The scapula lies on the posterior aspect of the pectoral epicondyle. The articulating surfaces of the distal girdle. It mediates the attachment of the upper limb to humerus consist of the trochlea medially and the the clavicle, and contributes to the formation of the capitulum laterally. Depressions on the humerus that glenohumeral (shoulder) joint. This triangular bone has accommodate the forearm bones during bending three sides called the medial, lateral, and superior (flexing) and straightening (extending) of the elbow borders. The suprascapular notch is located on the include the coronoid fossa, the radial fossa, and the superior border. The scapula also has three corners, olecranon fossa. two of which are the superior and inferior angles. The The forearm is the region of the upper limb located third corner is occupied by the glenoid cavity. between the elbow and wrist joints. This region Posteriorly, the spine separates the supraspinous and contains two bones, the ulna medially and the radius infraspinous fossae, and then extends laterally as the on the lateral (thumb) side. The elbow joint is formed acromion. The subscapular fossa is located on the by the articulation between the trochlea of the anterior surface of the scapula. The coracoid process humerus and the trochlear notch of the ulna, plus the Access for free at openstax.org 8 • Chapter Review 307 articulation between the capitulum of the humerus and multiple muscles. the head of the radius. The proximal radioulnar joint is The hip bone consists of three regions: the ilium, the articulation between the head of the radius and the ischium, and pubis. The ilium forms the large, fan-like radial notch of the ulna. The proximal ulna also has the region of the hip bone. The superior margin of this area olecranon process, forming an expanded posterior is the iliac crest. Located at either end of the iliac crest region, and the coronoid process and ulnar tuberosity are the anterior superior and posterior superior iliac on its anterior aspect. On the proximal radius, the spines. Inferior to these are the anterior inferior and narrowed region below the head is the neck; distal to posterior inferior iliac spines. The auricular
