Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


On the proximal radius, the spines. Inferior to these are the anterior inferior and narrowed region below the head is the neck; distal to posterior inferior iliac spines. The auricular surface of this is the radial tuberosity. The shaft portions of both the ilium articulates with the sacrum to form the the ulna and radius have an interosseous border, sacroiliac joint. The medial surface of the upper ilium whereas the distal ends of each bone have a pointed forms the iliac fossa, with the arcuate line marking the styloid process. The distal radioulnar joint is found inferior limit of this area. The posterior margin of the between the head of the ulna and the ulnar notch of ilium has the large greater sciatic notch. the radius. The distal end of the radius articulates with the proximal carpal bones, but the ulna does not. The posterolateral portion of the hip bone is the ischium. It has the expanded ischial tuberosity, which The base of the hand is formed by eight carpal bones. supports body weight when sitting. The ischial ramus The carpal bones are united into two rows of bones. projects anteriorly and superiorly. The posterior margin The proximal row contains (from lateral to medial) the of the ischium has the shallow lesser sciatic notch and scaphoid, lunate, triquetrum, and pisiform bones. The the ischial spine, which separates the greater and scaphoid, lunate, and triquetrum bones contribute to lesser sciatic notches. the formation of the radiocarpal joint. The distal row of carpal bones contains (from medial to lateral) the The pubis forms the anterior portion of the hip bone. hamate, capitate, trapezoid, and trapezium bones (“So The body of the pubis articulates with the pubis of the Long To Pinky, Here Comes The Thumb”). The anterior opposite hip bone at the pubic symphysis. The superior hamate has a prominent bony hook. The proximal and margin of the pubic body has the pubic tubercle. The distal carpal rows articulate with each other at the pubis is joined to the ilium by the superior pubic ramus, midcarpal joint. The carpal bones, together with the the superior surface of which forms the pectineal line. flexor retinaculum, also form the carpal tunnel of the The inferior pubic ramus projects inferiorly and wrist. laterally. The pubic arch is formed by the pubic symphysis, the bodies of the adjacent pubic bones, and The five metacarpal bones form
