Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


inferior pubic ramus projects inferiorly and wrist. laterally. The pubic arch is formed by the pubic symphysis, the bodies of the adjacent pubic bones, and The five metacarpal bones form the palm of the hand. the two inferior pubic rami. The inferior pubic ramus The metacarpal bones are numbered 1–5, starting with joins the ischial ramus to form the ischiopubic ramus. the thumb side. The first metacarpal bone is freely The subpubic angle is formed by the medial mobile, but the other bones are united as a group. The convergence of the right and left ischiopubic rami. digits are also numbered 1–5, with the thumb being number 1. The fingers and thumb contain a total of 14 The lateral side of the hip bone has the cup-like phalanges (phalanx bones). The thumb contains a acetabulum, which is part of the hip joint. The large proximal and a distal phalanx, whereas the remaining anterior opening is the obturator foramen. The digits each contain proximal, middle, and distal sacroiliac joint is supported by the anterior and phalanges. posterior sacroiliac ligaments. The sacrum is also joined to the hip bone by the sacrospinous ligament, 8.3The Pelvic Girdle and Pelvis which attaches to the ischial spine, and the The pelvic girdle, consisting of a hip bone, serves to sacrotuberous ligament, which attaches to the ischial attach a lower limb to the axial skeleton. The hip bone tuberosity. The sacrospinous and sacrotuberous articulates posteriorly at the sacroiliac joint with the ligaments contribute to the formation of the greater sacrum, which is part of the axial skeleton. The right and lesser sciatic foramina. and left hip bones converge anteriorly and articulate The broad space of the upper pelvis is the greater with each other at the pubic symphysis. The pelvis, and the narrow, inferior space is the lesser combination of the hip bone, the sacrum, and the pelvis. These areas are separated by the pelvic brim coccyx forms the pelvis. The pelvis has a pronounced (pelvic inlet). The inferior opening of the pelvis is the anterior tilt. The primary function of the pelvis is to pelvic outlet. Compared to the male, the female pelvis support the upper body and transfer body weight to the is wider to accommodate childbirth, has a larger lower limbs. It also serves as the site of attachment for subpubic angle, and a broader greater sciatic notch. 308 8 • Chapter Review
