Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


to accommodate childbirth, has a larger lower limbs. It also serves as the site of attachment for subpubic angle, and a broader greater sciatic notch. 308 8 • Chapter Review 8.4Bones of the Lower Limb is the lateral malleolus. The lower limb is divided into three regions. These are The posterior foot is formed by the seven tarsal bones. the thigh, located between the hip and knee joints; the The talus articulates superiorly with the distal tibia, the leg, located between the knee and ankle joints; and medial malleolus of the tibia, and the lateral malleolus distal to the ankle, the foot. There are 30 bones in each of the fibula to form the ankle joint. The talus lower limb. These are the femur, patella, tibia, fibula, articulates inferiorly with the calcaneus bone. The seven tarsal bones, five metatarsal bones, and 14 sustentaculum tali of the calcaneus helps to support phalanges. the talus. Anterior to the talus is the navicular bone, and anterior to this are the medial, intermediate, and The femur is the single bone of the thigh. Its rounded lateral cuneiform bones. The cuboid bone is anterior to head articulates with the acetabulum of the hip bone to the calcaneus. form the hip joint. The head has the fovea capitis for attachment of the ligament of the head of the femur. The five metatarsal bones form the anterior foot. The The narrow neck joins inferiorly with the greater and base of these bones articulate with the cuboid or lesser trochanters. Passing between these bony cuneiform bones. The metatarsal heads, at their distal expansions are the intertrochanteric line on the ends, articulate with the proximal phalanges of the anterior femur and the larger intertrochanteric crest on toes. The big toe (toe number 1) has proximal and the posterior femur. On the posterior shaft of the femur distal phalanx bones. The remaining toes have is the gluteal tuberosity proximally and the linea aspera proximal, middle, and distal phalanges. in the mid-shaft region. The expanded distal end 8.5Development of the Appendicular consists of three articulating surfaces: the medial and Skeleton lateral condyles, and the patellar surface. The outside margins of the condyles are the medial and lateral The bones of the appendicular skeleton arise from epicondyles. The adductor tubercle is on the superior embryonic mesenchyme. Limb buds appear at the end aspect of the medial epicondyle. of the fourth week. The
