Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


appendicular skeleton arise from epicondyles. The adductor tubercle is on the superior embryonic mesenchyme. Limb buds appear at the end aspect of the medial epicondyle. of the fourth week. The apical ectodermal ridge, located at the end of the limb bud, stimulates growth The patella is a sesamoid bone located within a muscle and elongation of the limb. During the sixth week, the tendon. It articulates with the patellar surface on the distal end of the limb bud becomes paddle-shaped, anterior side of the distal femur, thereby protecting the and selective cell death separates the developing muscle tendon from rubbing against the femur. fingers and toes. At the same time, mesenchyme within The leg contains the large tibia on the medial side and the limb bud begins to differentiate into hyaline the slender fibula on the lateral side. The tibia bears cartilage, forming models for future bones. During the the weight of the body, whereas the fibula does not seventh week, the upper limbs rotate laterally and the bear weight. The interosseous border of each bone is lower limbs rotate medially, bringing the limbs into the attachment site for the interosseous membrane of their final positions. the leg, the connective tissue sheet that unites the tibia Endochondral ossification, the process that converts and fibula. the hyaline cartilage model into bone, begins in most The proximal tibia consists of the expanded medial and appendicular bones by the twelfth fetal week. This lateral condyles, which articulate with the medial and begins as a primary ossification center in the diaphysis, lateral condyles of the femur to form the knee joint. followed by the later appearance of one or more Between the tibial condyles is the intercondylar secondary ossifications centers in the regions of the eminence. On the anterior side of the proximal tibia is epiphyses. Each secondary ossification center is the tibial tuberosity, which is continuous inferiorly with separated from the primary ossification center by an the anterior border of the tibia. On the posterior side, epiphyseal plate. Continued growth of the epiphyseal the proximal tibia has the curved soleal line. The bony plate cartilage provides for bone lengthening. expansion on the medial side of the distal tibia is the Disappearance of the epiphyseal plate is followed by medial malleolus. The groove on the lateral side of the fusion of the bony components to form a single, adult distal tibia is the fibular
