Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


epiphyseal plate is followed by medial malleolus. The groove on the lateral side of the fusion of the bony components to form a single, adult distal tibia is the fibular notch. bone. The head of the fibula forms the proximal end and The clavicle develops via intramembranous articulates with the underside of the lateral condyle of ossification, in which mesenchyme is converted the tibia. The distal fibula articulates with the fibular directly into bone tissue. Ossification within the clavicle notch of the tibia. The expanded distal end of the fibula begins during the fifth week of development and Access for free at openstax.org 8 • Interactive Link Questions 309 continues until 25 years of age. Interactive Link Questions 1. Watch thisvideo( 6. Visit thissite( see how fractures of the distal radius bone can watch a virtual knee replacement surgery. The affect the wrist joint. Explain the problems that may prosthetic knee components must be properly occur if a fracture of the distal radius involves the aligned to function properly. How is this alignment joint surface of the radiocarpal joint of the wrist. ensured? 2. Visit thissite( 7. Use thistutorial( explore the bones and joints of the hand. What are to review the bones of the foot. Which tarsal bones the three arches of the hand, and what is the are in the proximal, intermediate, and distal importance of these during the gripping of an groups? object? 8. View thislink( learn 3. Watch thisvideo( about a bunion, a localized swelling on the medial learn about a Colles fracture, a break of the distal side of the foot, next to the first radius, usually caused by falling onto an metatarsophalangeal joint, at the base of the big outstretched hand. When would surgery be toe. What is a bunion and what type of shoe is most required and how would the fracture be repaired in likely to cause this to develop? this case? 9. Watch thisanimation( 4. Watch thisvideo( limbbuds)to follow the development and growth of for a 3-D view of the pelvis and its associated the upper and lower limb buds. On what days of ligaments. What is the large opening in the bony embryonic development do these events occur: (a) pelvis, located between the ischium and pubic first appearance of the upper limb bud (limb ridge); regions, and what two parts of the pubis contribute (b) the flattening of the distal
