Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


located between the ischium and pubic first appearance of the upper limb bud (limb ridge); regions, and what two parts of the pubis contribute (b) the flattening of the distal limb to form the to the formation of this opening? handplate or footplate; and (c) the beginning of 5. Watch thisvideo( limb rotation? to view how a fracture of the mid-femur is surgically repaired. How are the two portions of the broken femur stabilized during surgical repair of a fractured femur? Review Questions 10. Which part of the clavicle articulates with the 13. What structure is an extension of the spine of the manubrium? scapula? a. shaft a. acromion b. sternal end b. coracoid process c. acromial end c. supraglenoid tubercle d. coracoid process d. glenoid cavity 11. A shoulder separation results from injury to the 14. Name the short, hook-like bony process of the ________. scapula that projects anteriorly. a. glenohumeral joint a. acromial process b. costoclavicular joint b. clavicle c. acromioclavicular joint c. coracoid process d. sternoclavicular joint d. glenoid fossa 12. Which feature lies between the spine and superior 15. How many bones are there in the upper limbs border of the scapula? combined? a. suprascapular notch a. 20 b. glenoid cavity b. 30 c. superior angle c. 40 d. supraspinous fossa d. 60 310 8 • Review Questions 16. Which bony landmark is located on the lateral side 23. The ischial spine is found between which of the of the proximal humerus? following structures? a. greater tubercle a. inferior pubic ramus and ischial ramus b. trochlea b. pectineal line and arcuate line c. lateral epicondyle c. lesser sciatic notch and greater sciatic notch d. lesser tubercle d. anterior superior iliac spine and posterior superior iliac spine 17. Which region of the humerus articulates with the radius as part of the elbow joint? 24. The pelvis ________. a. trochlea a. has a subpubic angle that is larger in females b. styloid process b. consists of the two hip bones, but does not c. capitulum include the sacrum or coccyx d. olecranon process c. has an obturator foramen, an opening that is defined in part by the sacrospinous and 18. Which is the lateral-most carpal bone of the sacrotuberous ligaments proximal row? d. has a space located inferior to the pelvic brim a. trapezium called the greater pelvis b. hamate c. pisiform 25. Which bony landmark of the
