Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


lengthening d. all epiphyseal plates will disappear before birth 32. The clavicle ________. a. develops via intramembranous ossification b. develops via endochondral ossification c. is the last bone of the body to begin ossification d. is fully ossified at the time of birth Critical Thinking Questions 33. Describe the shape and palpable line formed by 39. Define the regions of the lower limb, name the the clavicle and scapula. bones found in each region, and describe the bony 34. Discuss two possible injuries of the pectoral girdle landmarks that articulate together to form the hip, that may occur following a strong blow to the knee, and ankle joints. shoulder or a hard fall onto an outstretched hand. 40. The talus bone of the foot receives the weight of 35. Your friend runs out of gas and you have to help the body from the tibia. The talus bone then push their car. Discuss the sequence of bones and distributes this weight toward the ground in two joints that convey the forces passing from your directions: one-half of the body weight is passed hand, through your upper limb and your pectoral in a posterior direction and one-half of the weight girdle, and to your axial skeleton. is passed in an anterior direction. Describe the 36. Name the bones in the wrist and hand, and arrangement of the tarsal and metatarsal bones describe or sketch out their locations and that are involved in both the posterior and anterior articulations. distribution of body weight. 37. Describe the articulations and ligaments that unite 41. How can a radiograph of a child’s femur be used to the four bones of the pelvis to each other. determine the approximate age of that child? 38. Discuss the ways in which the female pelvis is 42. How does the development of the clavicle differ adapted for childbirth. from the development of other appendicular skeleton bones? 312 8 • Critical Thinking Questions Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 9 Joints Figure9.1 KayakingWithout joints, body movements would be impossible. (credit: Graham Richardson/flickr.com) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After this chapter, you will be able to: • Discuss both functional and structural classifications for body joints • Describe the characteristic features for fibrous, cartilaginous, and synovial joints and give examples of each • Define and identify the different body movements • Discuss the structure of specific body joints and the movements allowed by each
