Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


on the scapula. Duringsuperior rotation, the glenoid cavity moves upward as the medial end of the scapular spine moves downward. This is a very important motion that contributes to upper limb abduction. Without superior rotation of the scapula, the greater tubercle of the humerus would hit the acromion of the scapula, thus preventing any abduction of the arm above shoulder height. Superior rotation of the scapula is thus required for full abduction of the upper limb. Superior rotation is also used without arm abduction 332 9 • Joints when carrying a heavy load with your hand or on your shoulder. You can feel this rotation when you pick up a load, such as a heavy book bag and carry it on only one shoulder. To increase its weight-bearing support for the bag, the shoulder lifts as the scapula superiorly rotates.Inferior rotationoccurs during limb adduction and involves the downward motion of the glenoid cavity with upward movement of the medial end of the scapular spine. Opposition and Reposition Oppositionis the thumb movement that brings the tip of the thumb in contact with the tip of a finger. This movement is produced at the first carpometacarpal joint, which is a saddle joint formed between the trapezium carpal bone and the first metacarpal bone. Thumb opposition is produced by a combination of flexion and abduction of the thumb at this joint. Returning the thumb to its anatomical position next to the index finger is calledreposition (seeFigure 9.13l). Movements of the Joints Type of Movement Example Joint Atlantoaxial joint (C1–C2 vertebrae Pivot Uniaxial joint; allows rotational movement articulation); proximal radioulnar joint Uniaxial joint; allows flexion/extension Knee; elbow; ankle; interphalangeal joints of Hinge movements fingers and toes Metacarpophalangeal (knuckle) joints of Biaxial joint; allows flexion/extension, abduction/ Condyloid fingers; radiocarpal joint of wrist; adduction, and circumduction movements metatarsophalangeal joints for toes Biaxial joint; allows flexion/extension, abduction/ First carpometacarpal joint of the thumb; Saddle adduction, and circumduction movements sternoclavicular joint Multiaxial joint; allows inversion and eversion of Intertarsal joints of foot; superior-inferior Plane foot, or flexion, extension, and lateral flexion of articular process articulations between the vertebral column vertebrae Multiaxial joint; allows flexion/extension, Ball-and- abduction/adduction, circumduction, and medial/ Shoulder and hip joints socket lateral rotation movements TABLE9.1 9.6 Anatomy of Selected Synovial Joints LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the bones that articulate together to form selected synovial
