Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


displaced by bone. The mesenchyme between these developing bones becomes the fibrous connective tissue of the suture joints between the bones in these regions of the skull. A similar process of endochondral ossification gives rises to the bones and joints of the limbs. The limbs initially develop as small limb buds that appear on the sides of the embryo around the end of the fourth week of development. Starting during the sixth week, as each limb bud continues to grow and elongate, areas of mesenchyme within the bud begin to differentiate into the hyaline cartilage that will form models for of each of the future bones. The synovial joints will form between the adjacent cartilage models, in an area called thejoint interzone. Cells at the center of this interzone region undergo cell death to form the joint cavity, while surrounding mesenchyme cells will form the articular capsule and supporting ligaments. The process of endochondral ossification, which converts the cartilage models into bone, begins by the twelfth week of embryonic development. At birth, ossification of much of the bone has occurred, but the hyaline cartilage of the epiphyseal plate will remain throughout childhood and adolescence to allow for bone lengthening. Hyaline cartilage is also retained as the articular cartilage that covers the surfaces of the bones at synovial joints. 346 9 • Key Terms Key Terms abduction movement in the coronal plane that moves calcaneofibular ligament intrinsic ligament located a limb laterally away from the body; spreading of the on the lateral side of the ankle joint, between the fingers calcaneus bone and lateral malleolus of the fibula; acetabular labrum lip of fibrocartilage that supports the talus bone at the ankle joint and surrounds outer margin of the acetabulum on the resists excess inversion of the foot hip bone cartilaginous joint joint at which the bones are adduction movement in the coronal plane that moves united by hyaline cartilage (synchondrosis) or a limb medially toward or across the midline of the fibrocartilage (symphysis) body; bringing fingers together circumduction circular motion of the arm, thigh, amphiarthrosis slightly mobile joint hand, thumb, or finger that is produced by the annular ligament intrinsic ligament of the elbow sequential combination of flexion, abduction, articular capsule that surrounds and supports the extension, and adduction head of the radius at the proximal radioulnar joint condyloid joint synovial joint in which the shallow anterior cruciate ligament intracapsular ligament
