Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


and plantar flexion of the foot uniaxial joint type of diarthrosis; joint that allows for temporomandibular joint (TMJ) articulation motion within only one plane (one axis) between the condyle of the mandible and the zygapophysial joints facet joints; plane joints mandibular fossa and articular tubercle of the between the superior and inferior articular temporal bone of the skull; allows for depression/ processes of adjacent vertebrae that provide for elevation (opening/closing of mouth), protraction/ only limited motions between the vertebrae Chapter Review 9.1Classification of Joints is a freely moveable joint. All synovial joints are functionally classified as diarthroses. A uniaxial Structural classifications of the body joints are based diarthrosis, such as the elbow, is a joint that only on how the bones are held together and articulate with allows for movement within a single anatomical plane. each other. At fibrous joints, the adjacent bones are Joints that allow for movements in two planes are directly united to each other by fibrous connective biaxial joints, such as the metacarpophalangeal joints tissue. Similarly, at a cartilaginous joint, the adjacent of the fingers. A multiaxial joint, such as the shoulder bones are united by cartilage. In contrast, at a synovial or hip joint, allows for three planes of motions. joint, the articulating bone surfaces are not directly united to each other, but come together within a fluid- 9.2Fibrous Joints filled joint cavity. Fibrous joints are where adjacent bones are strongly The functional classification of body joints is based on united by fibrous connective tissue. The gap filled by the degree of movement found at each joint. A connective tissue may be narrow or wide. The three synarthrosis is a joint that is essentially immobile. This types of fibrous joints are sutures, gomphoses, and type of joint provides for a strong connection between syndesmoses. A suture is the narrow fibrous joint that the adjacent bones, which serves to protect internal unites most bones of the skull. At a gomphosis, the structures such as the brain or heart. Examples include root of a tooth is anchored across a narrow gap by the fibrous joints of the skull sutures and the periodontal ligaments to the walls of its socket in the cartilaginous manubriosternal joint. A joint that allows bony jaw. A syndesmosis is the type of fibrous joint for limited movement is an amphiarthrosis. An example found between parallel bones. The gap between the is the pubic
