Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


allows bony jaw. A syndesmosis is the type of fibrous joint for limited movement is an amphiarthrosis. An example found between parallel bones. The gap between the is the pubic symphysis of the pelvis, the cartilaginous bones may be wide and filled with a fibrous joint that strongly unites the right and left hip bones of interosseous membrane, or it may narrow with the pelvis. The cartilaginous joints in which vertebrae ligaments spanning between the bones. Syndesmoses are united by intervertebral discs provide for small are found between the bones of the forearm (radius movements between the adjacent vertebrae and are and ulna) and the leg (tibia and fibula). Fibrous joints also an amphiarthrosis type of joint. Thus, based on strongly unite adjacent bones and thus serve to provide their movement ability, both fibrous and cartilaginous protection for internal organs, strength to body regions, joints are functionally classified as a synarthrosis or or weight-bearing stability. amphiarthrosis. The most common type of joint is the diarthrosis, which 350 9 • Chapter Review 9.3Cartilaginous Joints and a muscle tendon. Tendon sheaths contain a lubricating fluid and surround tendons to allow for There are two types of cartilaginous joints. A smooth movement of the tendon as it crosses a joint. synchondrosis is formed when the adjacent bones are united by hyaline cartilage. A temporary synchondrosis Based on the shape of the articulating bone surfaces is formed by the epiphyseal plate of a growing long and the types of movement allowed, synovial joints are bone, which is lost when the epiphyseal plate ossifies classified into six types. At a pivot joint, one bone is as the bone reaches maturity. The synchondrosis is held within a ring by a ligament and its articulation with thus replaced by a synostosis. Permanent a second bone. Pivot joints only allow for rotation synchondroses that do not ossify are found at the first around a single axis. These are found at the articulation sternocostal joint and between the anterior ends of the between the C1 (atlas) and the dens of the C2 (axis) bony ribs and the junction with their costal cartilage. A vertebrae, which provides the side-to-side rotation of symphysis is where the bones are joined by the head, or at the proximal radioulnar joint between fibrocartilage and the gap between the bones may be the head of the radius and the radial notch of the ulna, narrow
