Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


head, or at the proximal radioulnar joint between fibrocartilage and the gap between the bones may be the head of the radius and the radial notch of the ulna, narrow or wide. A narrow symphysis is found at the which allows for rotation of the radius during forearm manubriosternal joint and at the pubic symphysis. A movements. Hinge joints, such as at the elbow, knee, wide symphysis is the intervertebral symphysis in ankle, or interphalangeal joints between phalanx bones which the bodies of adjacent vertebrae are united by of the fingers and toes, allow only for bending and an intervertebral disc. straightening of the joint. Pivot and hinge joints are functionally classified as uniaxial joints. 9.4Synovial Joints Condyloid joints are found where the shallow Synovial joints are the most common type of joints in depression of one bone receives a rounded bony area the body. They are characterized by the presence of a formed by one or two bones. Condyloid joints are found joint cavity, inside of which the bones of the joint at the base of the fingers (metacarpophalangeal joints) articulate with each other. The articulating surfaces of and at the wrist (radiocarpal joint). At a saddle joint, the bones at a synovial joint are not directly connected the articulating bones fit together like a rider and a to each other by connective tissue or cartilage, which saddle. An example is the first carpometacarpal joint allows the bones to move freely against each other. The located at the base of the thumb. Both condyloid and walls of the joint cavity are formed by the articular saddle joints are functionally classified as biaxial joints. capsule. Friction between the bones is reduced by a thin layer of articular cartilage covering the surfaces of Plane joints are formed between the small, flattened the bones, and by a lubricating synovial fluid, which is surfaces of adjacent bones. These joints allow the secreted by the synovial membrane. bones to slide or rotate against each other, but the range of motion is usually slight and tightly limited by Synovial joints are strengthened by the presence of ligaments or surrounding bones. This type of joint is ligaments, which hold the bones together and resist found between the articular processes of adjacent excessive or abnormal movements of the joint. vertebrae, at the acromioclavicular joint, or at the Ligaments are classified as extrinsic ligaments if they intercarpal joints
