Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the articular processes of adjacent excessive or abnormal movements of the joint. vertebrae, at the acromioclavicular joint, or at the Ligaments are classified as extrinsic ligaments if they intercarpal joints of the hand and intertarsal joints of are located outside of the articular capsule, intrinsic the foot. Ball-and-socket joints, in which the rounded ligaments if they are fused to the wall of the articular head of a bone fits into a large depression or socket, capsule, or intracapsular ligaments if they are located are found at the shoulder and hip joints. Both plane inside the articular capsule. Some synovial joints also and ball-and-sockets joints are classified functionally have an articular disc (meniscus), which can provide as multiaxial joints. However, ball-and-socket joints padding between the bones, smooth their movements, allow for large movements, while the motions between or strongly join the bones together to strengthen the bones at a plane joint are small. joint. Muscles and their tendons acting across a joint can also increase their contractile strength when 9.5Types of Body Movements needed, thus providing indirect support for the joint. The variety of movements provided by the different Bursae contain a lubricating fluid that serves to reduce types of synovial joints allows for a large range of body friction between structures. Subcutaneous bursae motions and gives you tremendous mobility. These prevent friction between the skin and an underlying movements allow you to flex or extend your body or bone, submuscular bursae protect muscles from limbs, medially rotate and adduct your arms and flex rubbing against a bone or another muscle, and a your elbows to hold a heavy object against your chest, subtendinous bursa prevents friction between bone raise your arms above your head, rotate or shake your Access for free at openstax.org 9 • Chapter Review 351 head, and bend to touch the toes (with or without is a pivot joint that provides for rotation of the head. bending your knees). The temporomandibular joint is the articulation Each of the different structural types of synovial joints between the condyle of the mandible and the also allow for specific motions. The atlantoaxial pivot mandibular fossa and articular tubercle of the skull joint provides side-to-side rotation of the head, while temporal bone. An articular disc is located between the the proximal radioulnar articulation allows for rotation bony components of this joint. A combination of gliding of the radius during pronation and
