Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


bone. An articular disc is located between the the proximal radioulnar articulation allows for rotation bony components of this joint. A combination of gliding of the radius during pronation and supination of the and hinge motions of the mandibular condyle allows forearm. Hinge joints, such as at the knee and elbow, for elevation/depression, protraction/retraction, and allow only for flexion and extension. Similarly, the hinge side-to-side motions of the lower jaw. joint of the ankle only allows for dorsiflexion and The glenohumeral (shoulder) joint is a multiaxial ball- plantar flexion of the foot. and-socket joint that provides flexion/extension, Condyloid and saddle joints are biaxial. These allow for abduction/adduction, circumduction, and medial/ flexion and extension, and abduction and adduction. lateral rotation of the humerus. The head of the The sequential combination of flexion, adduction, humerus articulates with the glenoid cavity of the extension, and abduction produces circumduction. scapula. The glenoid labrum extends around the Multiaxial plane joints provide for only small motions, margin of the glenoid cavity. Intrinsic ligaments, but these can add together over several adjacent joints including the coracohumeral ligament and to produce body movement, such as inversion and glenohumeral ligaments, provide some support for the eversion of the foot. Similarly, plane joints allow for shoulder joint. However, the primary support comes flexion, extension, and lateral flexion movements of the from muscles crossing the joint whose tendons form vertebral column. The multiaxial ball and socket joints the rotator cuff. These muscle tendons are protected allow for flexion-extension, abduction-adduction, and from friction against the scapula by the subacromial circumduction. In addition, these also allow for medial bursa and subscapular bursa. (internal) and lateral (external) rotation. Ball-and- The elbow is a uniaxial hinge joint that allows for socket joints have the greatest range of motion of all flexion/extension of the forearm. It includes the synovial joints. humeroulnar joint and the humeroradial joint. The 9.6Anatomy of Selected Synovial Joints medial elbow is supported by the ulnar collateral ligament and the radial collateral ligament supports Although synovial joints share many common features, the lateral side. These ligaments prevent side-to-side each joint of the body is specialized for certain movements and resist hyperextension of the elbow. movements and activities. The joints of the upper limb The proximal radioulnar joint is a pivot joint that allows provide for large ranges of motion, which give the for rotation of the radius during pronation/supination of upper limb great
