Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


The proximal radioulnar joint is a pivot joint that allows provide for large ranges of motion, which give the for rotation of the radius during pronation/supination of upper limb great mobility, thus enabling actions such the forearm. The annular ligament surrounds the head as the throwing of a ball or typing on a keyboard. The of the radius to hold it in place at this joint. joints of the lower limb are more robust, giving them greater strength and the stability needed to support The hip joint is a ball-and-socket joint whose motions the body weight during running, jumping, or kicking are more restricted than at the shoulder to provide activities. greater stability during weight bearing. The hip joint is the articulation between the head of the femur and the The joints of the vertebral column include the acetabulum of the hip bone. The acetabulum is symphysis joints formed by each intervertebral disc deepened by the acetabular labrum. The iliofemoral, and the plane synovial joints between the superior and pubofemoral, and ischiofemoral ligaments strongly inferior articular processes of adjacent vertebrae. Each support the hip joint in the upright, standing position. of these joints provide for limited motions, but these The ligament of the head of the femur provides little sum together to produce flexion, extension, lateral support but carries an important artery that supplies flexion, and rotation of the neck and body. The range of the femur. motions available in each region of the vertebral column varies, with all of these motions available in the The knee includes three articulations. The cervical region. Only rotation is allowed in the thoracic femoropatellar joint is between the patella and distal region, while the lumbar region has considerable femur. The patella, a sesamoid bone incorporated into extension, flexion, and lateral flexion, but rotation is the tendon of the quadriceps femoris muscle of the prevented. The atlanto-occipital joint allows for flexion anterior thigh, serves to protect this tendon from and extension of the head, while the atlantoaxial joint rubbing against the distal femur during knee 352 9 • Interactive Link Questions movements. The medial and lateral tibiofemoral joints, side by the deltoid ligament, which prevents side-to- between the condyles of the femur and condyles of the side motions of the talus at the talocrural joint and tibia, are modified hinge joints that allow for knee resists excessive eversion of the foot. The lateral ankle
