Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


of the side motions of the talus at the talocrural joint and tibia, are modified hinge joints that allow for knee resists excessive eversion of the foot. The lateral ankle extension and flexion. During these movements, the is supported by the anterior and posterior talofibular condyles of the femur both roll and glide over the ligaments and the calcaneofibular ligament. These surface of the tibia. As the knee comes into full support the ankle joint and also resist excess inversion extension, a slight medial rotation of the femur serves of the foot. An inversion ankle sprain, a common injury, to “lock” the knee into its most stable, weight-bearing will result in injury to one or more of these lateral ankle position. The reverse motion, a small lateral rotation of ligaments. the femur, is required to initiate knee flexion. When the 9.7Development of Joints knee is flexed, some rotation of the leg is available. During embryonic growth, bones and joints develop Two extrinsic ligaments, the tibial collateral ligament from mesenchyme, an embryonic tissue that gives rise on the medial side and the fibular collateral ligament to bone, cartilage, and fibrous connective tissues. In on the lateral side, serve to resist hyperextension or the skull, the bones develop either directly from rotation of the extended knee joint. Two intracapsular mesenchyme through the process of intramembranous ligaments, the anterior cruciate ligament and posterior ossification, or indirectly through endochondral cruciate ligament, span between the tibia and the inner ossification, which initially forms a hyaline cartilage aspects of the femoral condyles. The anterior cruciate model of the future bone, which is later converted into ligament resists hyperextension of the knee, while the bone. In both cases, the mesenchyme between the posterior cruciate ligament prevents anterior sliding of developing bones differentiates into fibrous connective the femur, thus supporting the knee when it is flexed tissue that will unite the skull bones at suture joints. In and weight bearing. The medial and lateral menisci, the limbs, mesenchyme accumulations within the located between the femoral and tibial condyles, are growing limb bud will become a hyaline cartilage model articular discs that provide padding and improve the fit for each of the limb bones. A joint interzone will between the bones. develop between these areas of cartilage. The talocrural joint forms the ankle. It consists of the Mesenchyme cells at the margins of the interzone will articulation between the
