Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the bones. develop between these areas of cartilage. The talocrural joint forms the ankle. It consists of the Mesenchyme cells at the margins of the interzone will articulation between the talus bone and the medial give rise to the articular capsule, while cell death at the malleolus of the tibia, the distal end of the tibia, and center forms the space that will become the joint cavity the lateral malleolus of the fibula. This is a uniaxial of the future synovial joint. The hyaline cartilage model hinge joint that allows only dorsiflexion and plantar of each limb bone will eventually be converted into flexion of the foot. Gliding motions at the subtalar and bone via the process of endochondral ossification. intertarsal joints of the foot allow for inversion/eversion However, hyaline cartilage will remain, covering the of the foot. The ankle joint is supported on the medial ends of the adult bone as the articular cartilage. Interactive Link Questions 1. Go to thiswebsite( 2. Watch thisvideo( to view a radiograph (X-ray image) of a child’s hand see an animation of synovial joints in action. and wrist. The growing bones of child have an Synovial joints are places where bones articulate epiphyseal plate that forms a synchondrosis with each other inside of a joint cavity. The different between the shaft and end of a long bone. Being types of synovial joints are the ball-and-socket joint less dense than bone, the area of epiphyseal (shoulder joint), hinge joint (knee), pivot joint cartilage is seen on this radiograph as the dark (atlantoaxial joint, between C1 and C2 vertebrae of epiphyseal gaps located near the ends of the long the neck), condyloid joint (radiocarpal joint of the bones, including the radius, ulna, metacarpal, and wrist), saddle joint (first carpometacarpal joint, phalanx bones. Which of the bones in this image do between the trapezium carpal bone and the first not show an epiphyseal plate (epiphyseal gap)? metacarpal bone, at the base of the thumb), and plane joint (facet joints of vertebral column, between superior and inferior articular processes). Which type of synovial joint allows for the widest ranges of motion? Access for free at openstax.org 9 • Interactive Link Questions 353 3. Visit thiswebsite( 13. Watch thisvideo( read about a patient who arrives at the hospital to learn more about the anatomy of the hip joint, with joint pain and weakness in his legs. What including
