Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


thisvideo( read about a patient who arrives at the hospital to learn more about the anatomy of the hip joint, with joint pain and weakness in his legs. What including bones, joints, muscles, nerves, and caused this patient’s weakness? blood vessels. Where is the articular cartilage 4. Watch thisanimation( thickest within the hip joint? hipreplace)to observe hip replacement surgery 14. Watch thisvideo( (total hip arthroplasty), which can be used to learn more about the flexion and extension of the alleviate the pain and loss of joint mobility knee, as the femur both rolls and glides on the associated with osteoarthritis of the hip joint. What tibia to maintain stable contact between the is the most common cause of hip disability? bones in all knee positions. The patella glides 5. Watch thisvideo( along a groove on the anterior side of the distal rheuarthritis)to learn about the symptoms and femur. The collateral ligaments on the sides of the treatments for rheumatoid arthritis. Which system knee become tight in the fully extended position of the body malfunctions in rheumatoid arthritis to help stabilize the knee. The posterior cruciate and what does this cause? ligament supports the knee when flexed and the 6. Watch thisvideo( anterior cruciate ligament becomes tight when the to learn about anatomical motions. What motions knee comes into full extension to resist involve increasing or decreasing the angle of the hyperextension. What are the ligaments that foot at the ankle? support the knee joint? 7. Watch thisvideo( 15. Watch thisvideo( learn about TMJ. Opening of the mouth requires the kneejoint1)to learn more about the anatomy of combination of two motions at the the knee joint, including bones, joints, muscles, temporomandibular joint, an anterior gliding motion nerves, and blood vessels. Which ligament of the of the articular disc and mandible and the knee keeps the tibia from sliding too far forward in downward hinging of the mandible. What is the relation to the femur and which ligament keeps initial movement of the mandible during opening the tibia from sliding too far backward? and how much mouth opening does this produce? 16. Watch thisvideo( 8. Watch thisvideo( to learn more about different knee injuries and shoulderjoint1)for a tutorial on the anatomy of the diagnostic testing of the knee. What are the most shoulder joint. What movements are available at causes of anterior cruciate ligament injury? the shoulder joint? 17. Watch thisvideo( 9.
