Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the diagnostic testing of the knee. What are the most shoulder joint. What movements are available at causes of anterior cruciate ligament injury? the shoulder joint? 17. Watch thisvideo( 9. Watch thisvideo( anklejoint1)for a tutorial on the anatomy of the shoulderjoint2)to learn about the anatomy of the ankle joint. What are the three ligaments found on shoulder joint, including bones, joints, muscles, the lateral side of the ankle joint? nerves, and blood vessels. What is the shape of the 18. Watch thisvideo( glenoid labrum in cross-section, and what is the anklejoint2)to learn more about the anatomy of importance of this shape? the ankle joint, including bones, joints, muscles, 10. Watch thisanimation( nerves, and blood vessels. The ankle joint elbowjoint1)to learn more about the anatomy of resembles what type of joint used in the elbow joint. What structures provide the main woodworking? stability for the elbow? 19. Watch thisvideo( 11. Watch thisvideo( anklejoint3)to learn about the ligaments of the elbowjoint2)to learn more about the anatomy of ankle joint, ankle sprains, and treatment. During the elbow joint, including bones, joints, muscles, an inversion ankle sprain injury, all three ligaments nerves, and blood vessels. What are the functions that resist excessive inversion of the foot may be of the articular cartilage? injured. What is the sequence in which these three 12. Watch thisvideo( ligaments are injured? for a tutorial on the anatomy of the hip joint. What is a possible consequence following a fracture of the femoral neck within the capsule of the hip joint? 354 9 • Review Questions Review Questions 20. The joint between adjacent vertebrae that 27. A syndesmosis is ________. includes an invertebral disc is classified as which a. a narrow fibrous joint type of joint? b. the type of joint that unites bones of the skull a. diarthrosis c. a fibrous joint that unites parallel bones b. multiaxial d. the type of joint that anchors the teeth in the c. amphiarthrosis jaws d. synarthrosis 28. A cartilaginous joint ________. 21. Which of these joints is classified as a a. has a joint cavity synarthrosis? b. is called a symphysis when the bones are a. the pubic symphysis united by fibrocartilage b. the manubriosternal joint c. anchors the teeth to the jaws c. an invertebral disc d. is formed by a wide sheet of fibrous d. the shoulder joint connective tissue 22. Which of these joints is classified as
