Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


in their indirect support for a synovial joint. degree of mobility. 61. Briefly define the types of joint movements 55. Distinguish between a narrow and wide fibrous available at a ball-and-socket joint. joint and give an example of each. 62. Discuss the joints involved and movements 56. The periodontal ligaments are made of collagen required for you to cross your arms together in fibers and are responsible for connecting the roots front of your chest. of the teeth to the jaws. Describe how scurvy, a 63. Discuss the structures that contribute to support disease that inhibits collagen production, can of the shoulder joint. affect the teeth. 64. Describe the sequence of injuries that may occur if 57. Describe the two types of cartilaginous joints and the extended, weight-bearing knee receives a very give examples of each. strong blow to the lateral side of the knee. 58. Both functional and structural classifications can 65. Describe how synovial joints develop within the be used to describe an individual joint. Define the embryonic limb. first sternocostal joint and the pubic symphysis 66. Differentiate between endochondral and using both functional and structural intramembranous ossification. characteristics. Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 10 Muscle Tissue Figure10.1 Tennis PlayerAthletes rely on toned skeletal muscles to supply the force required for movement. (credit: Emmanuel Huybrechts/flickr) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Explain the organization of muscle tissue • Describe the function and structure of skeletal, cardiac muscle, and smooth muscle • Explain how muscles work with tendons to move the body • Describe how muscles contract and relax • Define the process of muscle metabolism • Explain how the nervous system controls muscle tension • Relate the connections between exercise and muscle performance • Explain the development and regeneration of muscle tissue INTRODUCTION When most people think of muscles, they think of the muscles that are visible just under the skin, particularly of the limbs. These are skeletal muscles, so-named because most of them move the skeleton. But there are two other types of muscle in the body, with distinctly different jobs. Cardiac muscle, found in the heart, is concerned with pumping blood through the circulatory system. Smooth muscle is concerned with various involuntary movements, such as having one’s hair stand on end when cold or frightened, or moving food through the digestive system. This chapter will examine the structure and
