Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


with various involuntary movements, such as having one’s hair stand on end when cold or frightened, or moving food through the digestive system. This chapter will examine the structure and function of these three types of muscles. 10.1 Overview of Muscle Tissues LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the different types of muscle • Explain contractibility and extensibility Muscle is one of the four primary tissue types of the body, and the body contains three types of muscle tissue: skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle, and smooth muscle (Figure 10.2). All three muscle tissues have some properties in common; they all exhibit a quality calledexcitabilityas their plasma membranes can change their electrical states 358 10 • Muscle Tissue (from polarized to depolarized) and send an electrical wave called an action potential along the entire length of the membrane. While the nervous system can influence the excitability of cardiac and smooth muscle to some degree, skeletal muscle completely depends on signaling from the nervous system to work properly. On the other hand, both cardiac muscle and smooth muscle can respond to other stimuli, such as hormones and local stimuli. FIGURE10.2 The Three Types of Muscle Tissue The body contains three types of muscle tissue: (a) skeletal muscle, (b) smooth muscle, and (c) cardiac muscle. (Micrographs provided by the Regents of University of Michigan Medical School © 2012) The muscles all begin the actual process of contracting (shortening) when a protein called actin is pulled by a protein called myosin. This occurs in striated muscle (skeletal and cardiac) after specific binding sites on the actin have been exposed in response to the interaction between calcium ions (Ca++) and proteins (troponin and tropomyosin) that “shield” the actin-binding sites. Ca++also is required for the contraction of smooth muscle, although its role is different: here Ca++activates enzymes, which in turn activate myosin heads. All muscles require adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to continue the process of contracting, and they all relax when the Ca++is removed and the actin-binding sites are re-shielded. A muscle can return to its original length when relaxed due to a quality of muscle tissue calledelasticity. It can recoil back to its original length due to elastic fibers. Muscle tissue also has the quality ofextensibility; it can stretch or extend.Contractilityallows muscle tissue to pull on its attachment points and shorten with force. Differences among the three muscle
