Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


membranes (just think about how quickly you can snap your fingers as soon as you decide to do it). Immediately following depolarization of the membrane, it repolarizes, re- establishing the negative membrane potential. Meanwhile, the ACh in the synaptic cleft is degraded by the enzyme acetylcholinesterase (AChE) so that the ACh cannot rebind to a receptor and reopen its channel, which would cause unwanted extended muscle excitation and contraction. Propagation of an action potential along the sarcolemma is the excitation portion of excitation-contraction coupling. Recall that this excitation actually triggers the release of calcium ions (Ca++) from its storage in the cell’s SR. For the action potential to reach the membrane of the SR, there are periodic invaginations in the sarcolemma, calledT- tubules(“T” stands for “transverse”). You will recall that the diameter of a muscle fiber can be up to 100μm, so these T-tubules ensure that the membrane can get close to the SR in the sarcoplasm. The arrangement of a T-tubule with the membranes of SR on either side is called atriad(Figure 10.7). The triad surrounds the cylindrical structure called amyofibril, which contains actin and myosin. FIGURE10.7 The T-tubule Narrow T-tubules permit the conduction of electrical impulses. The SR functions to regulate intracellular levels of calcium. Two terminal cisternae (where enlarged SR connects to the T-tubule) and one T-tubule comprise a triad—a “threesome” of membranes, with those of SR on two sides and the T-tubule sandwiched between them. The T-tubules carry the action potential into the interior of the cell, which triggers the opening of calcium channels in the membrane of the adjacent SR, causing Ca++to diffuse out of the SR and into the sarcoplasm. It is the arrival of Ca++in the sarcoplasm that initiates contraction of the muscle fiber by its contractile units, or sarcomeres. 10.3 Muscle Fiber Contraction and Relaxation LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the components involved in a muscle contraction • Explain how muscles contract and relax • Describe the sliding filament model of muscle contraction The sequence of events that result in the contraction of an individual muscle fiber begins with a signal—the neurotransmitter, ACh—from the motor neuron innervating that fiber. The local membrane of the fiber will depolarize Access for free at openstax.org 10.3 • Muscle Fiber Contraction and Relaxation 365 as positively charged sodium ions (Na+) enter, triggering an action potential that
