Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


it reaches a peak point. The tension at this point is about three to four times greater than the tension of a single twitch, a state referred to as incomplete tetanus. During incomplete tetanus, the muscle goes through quick cycles of contraction with a short relaxation phase for each. If the stimulus frequency is so high that the relaxation phase disappears completely, contractions become continuous in a process called completetetanus (Figure 10.16b). During tetanus, the concentration of Ca++ions in the sarcoplasm allows virtually all of the sarcomeres to form cross- bridges and shorten, so that a contraction can continue uninterrupted (until the muscle fatigues and can no longer produce tension). Treppe When a skeletal muscle has been dormant for an extended period and then activated to contract, with all other things being equal, the initial contractions generate about one-half the force of later contractions. The muscle tension increases in a graded manner that to some looks like a set of stairs. This tension increase is calledtreppe, a condition where muscle contractions become more efficient. It’s also known as the “staircase effect” (Figure 10.17). Access for free at openstax.org 10.5 • Types of Muscle Fibers 377 FIGURE10.17 Treppe When muscle tension increases in a graded manner that looks like a set of stairs, it is called treppe. The bottom of each wave represents the point of stimulus. It is believed that treppe results from a higher concentration of Ca++in the sarcoplasm resulting from the steady stream of signals from the motor neuron. It can only be maintained with adequate ATP. Muscle Tone Skeletal muscles are rarely completely relaxed, or flaccid. Even if a muscle is not producing movement, it is contracted a small amount to maintain its contractile proteins and producemuscle tone. The tension produced by muscle tone allows muscles to continually stabilize joints and maintain posture. Muscle tone is accomplished by a complex interaction between the nervous system and skeletal muscles that results in the activation of a few motor units at a time, most likely in a cyclical manner. In this manner, muscles never fatigue completely, as some motor units can recover while others are active. The absence of the low-level contractions that lead to muscle tone is referred to ashypotonia, and can result from damage to parts of the central nervous system (CNS), such as the cerebellum, or from loss of innervations to a skeletal muscle, as in
