Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


are supplied by the SR in the fibers and by sequestration from the extracellular fluid through membrane indentations called calveoli. Because smooth muscle cells do not contain troponin, cross-bridge formation is not regulated by the troponin- tropomyosin complex but instead by the regulatory proteincalmodulin. In a smooth muscle fiber, external Ca++ions passing through opened calcium channels in the sarcolemma, and additional Ca++released from SR, bind to calmodulin. The Ca++-calmodulin complex then activates an enzyme called myosin (light chain) kinase, which, in turn, activates the myosin heads by phosphorylating them (converting ATP to ADP and P, with the P attaching to the i i head). The heads can then attach to actin-binding sites and pull on the thin filaments. The thin filaments also are anchored to the dense bodies; the structures invested in the inner membrane of the sarcolemma (at adherens junctions) that also have cord-like intermediate filaments attached to them. When the thin filaments slide past the thick filaments, they pull on the dense bodies, structures tethered to the sarcolemma, which then pull on the intermediate filaments networks throughout the sarcoplasm. This arrangement causes the entire muscle fiber to contract in a manner whereby the ends are pulled toward the center, causing the midsection to bulge in a corkscrew Access for free at openstax.org 10.8 • Smooth Muscle 385 motion (Figure 10.24). FIGURE10.24 Muscle Contraction The dense bodies and intermediate filaments are networked through the sarcoplasm, which cause the muscle fiber to contract. Although smooth muscle contraction relies on the presence of Ca++ions, smooth muscle fibers have a much smaller diameter than skeletal muscle cells. T-tubules are not required to reach the interior of the cell and therefore not necessary to transmit an action potential deep into the fiber. Smooth muscle fibers have a limited calcium-storing SR but have calcium channels in the sarcolemma (similar to cardiac muscle fibers) that open during the action potential along the sarcolemma. The influx of extracellular Ca++ions, which diffuse into the sarcoplasm to reach the calmodulin, accounts for most of the Ca++that triggers contraction of a smooth muscle cell. Muscle contraction continues until ATP-dependent calcium pumps actively transport Ca++ions back into the SR and out of the cell. However, a low concentration of calcium remains in the sarcoplasm to maintain muscle tone. This remaining calcium keeps the muscle slightly contracted, which is important in certain tracts and around blood vessels. Because most smooth muscles
