Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


that move bones wave summation addition of successive neural and produce movement stimuli to produce greater contraction slow oxidative (SO) muscle fiber that primarily uses Chapter Review 10.1Overview of Muscle Tissues associated with hair follicles; it also is found in the walls of internal organs, blood vessels, and internal Muscle is the tissue in animals that allows for active passageways, where it assists in moving materials. movement of the body or materials within the body. There are three types of muscle tissue: skeletal 10.2Skeletal Muscle muscle, cardiac muscle, and smooth muscle. Most of Skeletal muscles contain connective tissue, blood the body’s skeletal muscle produces movement by vessels, and nerves. There are three layers of acting on the skeleton. Cardiac muscle is found in the connective tissue: epimysium, perimysium, and wall of the heart and pumps blood through the endomysium. Skeletal muscle fibers are organized into circulatory system. groups called fascicles. Blood vessels and nerves enter Smooth muscle is found in the skin, where it is the connective tissue and branch in the cell. Muscles 390 10 • Chapter Review attach to bones directly or through tendons or together to produce a stronger muscle contraction. aponeuroses. Skeletal muscles maintain posture, Tetanus is the fusion of contractions to produce a stabilize bones and joints, control internal movement, continuous contraction. Increasing the number of and generate heat. motor neurons involved increases the amount of motor units activated in a muscle, which is called recruitment. Skeletal muscle fibers are long, multinucleated cells. Muscle tone is the constant low-level contractions that The membrane of the cell is the sarcolemma; the allow for posture and stability. cytoplasm of the cell is the sarcoplasm. The sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) is a form of endoplasmic 10.5Types of Muscle Fibers reticulum. Muscle fibers are composed of myofibrils. ATP provides the energy for muscle contraction. The The striations are created by the organization of actin three mechanisms for ATP regeneration are creatine and myosin resulting in the banding pattern of phosphate, anaerobic glycolysis, and aerobic myofibrils. metabolism. Creatine phosphate provides about the 10.3Muscle Fiber Contraction and first 15 seconds of ATP at the beginning of muscle Relaxation contraction. Anaerobic glycolysis produces small amounts of ATP in the absence of oxygen for a short A sarcomere is the smallest contractile portion of a period. Aerobic metabolism utilizes oxygen to produce muscle. Myofibrils are composed of thick and thin much more ATP, allowing
