Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


a short A sarcomere is the smallest contractile portion of a period. Aerobic metabolism utilizes oxygen to produce muscle. Myofibrils are composed of thick and thin much more ATP, allowing a muscle to work for longer filaments. Thick filaments are composed of the protein periods. Muscle fatigue, which has many contributing myosin; thin filaments are composed of the protein factors, occurs when muscle can no longer contract. An actin. Troponin and tropomyosin are regulatory oxygen debt is created as a result of muscle use. The proteins. three types of muscle fiber are slow oxidative (SO), fast Muscle contraction is described by the sliding filament oxidative (FO) and fast glycolytic (FG). SO fibers use model of contraction. ACh is the neurotransmitter that aerobic metabolism to produce low power contractions binds at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) to trigger over long periods and are slow to fatigue. FO fibers use depolarization, and an action potential travels along aerobic metabolism to produce ATP but produce higher the sarcolemma to trigger calcium release from SR. tension contractions than SO fibers. FG fibers use The actin sites are exposed after Ca++enters the anaerobic metabolism to produce powerful, high- sarcoplasm from its SR storage to activate the tension contractions but fatigue quickly. troponin-tropomyosin complex so that the tropomyosin 10.6Exercise and Muscle Performance shifts away from the sites. The cross-bridging of myosin heads docking into actin-binding sites is Hypertrophy is an increase in muscle mass due to the followed by the “power stroke”—the sliding of the thin addition of structural proteins. The opposite of filaments by thick filaments. The power strokes are hypertrophy is atrophy, the loss of muscle mass due to powered by ATP. Ultimately, the sarcomeres, the breakdown of structural proteins. Endurance myofibrils, and muscle fibers shorten to produce exercise causes an increase in cellular mitochondria, movement. myoglobin, and capillary networks in SO fibers. Endurance athletes have a high level of SO fibers 10.4Nervous System Control of Muscle relative to the other fiber types. Resistance exercise Tension causes hypertrophy. Power-producing muscles have a The number of cross-bridges formed between actin higher number of FG fibers than of slow fibers. and myosin determines the amount of tension Strenuous exercise causes muscle cell damage that produced by a muscle. The length of a sarcomere is requires time to heal. Some athletes use performance- optimal when the zone of overlap between thin and enhancing substances to enhance muscle thick
