Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


muscle. The length of a sarcomere is requires time to heal. Some athletes use performance- optimal when the zone of overlap between thin and enhancing substances to enhance muscle thick filaments is greatest. Muscles that are stretched performance. Muscle atrophy due to age is called or compressed too greatly do not produce maximal sarcopenia and occurs as muscle fibers die and are amounts of power. A motor unit is formed by a motor replaced by connective and adipose tissue. neuron and all of the muscle fibers that are innervated 10.7Cardiac Muscle Tissue by that same motor neuron. A single contraction is called a twitch. A muscle twitch has a latent period, a Cardiac muscle is striated muscle that is present only contraction phase, and a relaxation phase. A graded in the heart. Cardiac muscle fibers have a single muscle response allows variation in muscle tension. nucleus, are branched, and joined to one another by Summation occurs as successive stimuli are added intercalated discs that contain gap junctions for Access for free at openstax.org 10 • Interactive Link Questions 391 depolarization between cells and desmosomes to hold autonomic nervous system, by hormones, the fibers together when the heart contracts. spontaneously, or by stretching. The fibers in some Contraction in each cardiac muscle fiber is triggered by smooth muscle have latch-bridges, cross-bridges that Ca++ions in a similar manner as skeletal muscle, but cycle slowly without the need for ATP; these muscles here the Ca++ions come from SR and through voltage- can maintain low-level contractions for long periods. gated calcium channels in the sarcolemma. Pacemaker Single-unit smooth muscle tissue contains gap cells stimulate the spontaneous contraction of cardiac junctions to synchronize membrane depolarization and muscle as a functional unit, called a syncytium. contractions so that the muscle contracts as a single unit. Single-unit smooth muscle in the walls of the 10.8Smooth Muscle viscera, called visceral muscle, has a stress-relaxation Smooth muscle is found throughout the body around response that permits muscle to stretch, contract, and various organs and tracts. Smooth muscle cells have a relax as the organ expands. Multiunit smooth muscle single nucleus, and are spindle-shaped. Smooth cells do not possess gap junctions, and contraction muscle cells can undergo hyperplasia, mitotically does not spread from one cell to the next. dividing to produce new cells. The smooth cells are 10.9Development and Regeneration of nonstriated, but their sarcoplasm is filled with actin Muscle
