Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


not spread from one cell to the next. dividing to produce new cells. The smooth cells are 10.9Development and Regeneration of nonstriated, but their sarcoplasm is filled with actin Muscle Tissue and myosin, along with dense bodies in the sarcolemma to anchor the thin filaments and a network Muscle tissue arises from embryonic mesoderm. of intermediate filaments involved in pulling the Somites give rise to myoblasts and fuse to form a sarcolemma toward the fiber’s middle, shortening it in myotube. The nucleus of each contributing myoblast the process. Ca++ions trigger contraction when they remains intact in the mature skeletal muscle cell, are released from SR and enter through opened resulting in a mature, multinucleate cell. Satellite cells voltage-gated calcium channels. Smooth muscle help to repair skeletal muscle cells. Smooth muscle contraction is initiated when the Ca++binds to tissue can regenerate from stem cells called pericytes, intracellular calmodulin, which then activates an whereas dead cardiac muscle tissue is replaced by scar enzyme called myosin kinase that phosphorylates tissue. Aging causes muscle mass to decrease and be myosin heads so they can form the cross-bridges with replaced by noncontractile connective tissue and actin and then pull on the thin filaments. Smooth adipose tissue. muscle can be stimulated by pacesetter cells, by the Interactive Link Questions 1. Watch thisvideo( 2. Every skeletal muscle fiber is supplied by a motor micromacro)to learn more about macro- and neuron at the NMJ. Watch thisvideo microstructures of skeletal muscles. (a) What are ( learn more the names of the “junction points” between about what happens at the neuromuscular junction. sarcomeres? (b) What are the names of the (a) What is the definition of a motor unit? (b) What is “subunits” within the myofibrils that run the length the structural and functional difference between a of skeletal muscle fibers? (c) What is the “double large motor unit and a small motor unit? Can you strand of pearls” described in the video? (d) What give an example of each? (c) Why is the gives a skeletal muscle fiber its striated neurotransmitter acetylcholine degraded after appearance? binding to its receptor? 3. The release of calcium ions initiates muscle contractions. Watch thisvideo( l/calciumrole)to learn more about the role of calcium. (a) What are “T-tubules” and what is their role? (b) Please also describe how actin-binding sites are made available for cross-bridging with myosin heads during contraction. 392 10 • Review Questions
