Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


fibers and 80 smooth muscle cells? percent slow-twitch muscle fibers a. They are resistant to fatigue. c. 50 percent fast-twitch muscle fibers and 50 b. They have a rapid onset of contractions. percent slow-twitch muscle fibers c. They cannot exhibit tetanus. d. 40 percent fast-twitch muscle fibers and 60 d. They primarily use anaerobic metabolism. percent slow-twitch muscle fibers 28. From which embryonic cell type does muscle 21. The muscles of a professional marathon runner tissue develop? are most likely to have ________. a. ganglion cells a. 80 percent fast-twitch muscle fibers and 20 b. myotube cells percent slow-twitch muscle fibers c. myoblast cells b. 20 percent fast-twitch muscle fibers and 80 d. satellite cells percent slow-twitch muscle fibers c. 50 percent fast-twitch muscle fibers and 50 29. Which cell type helps to repair injured muscle percent slow-twitch muscle fibers fibers? d. 40 percent fast-twitch muscle fibers and 60 a. ganglion cells percent slow-twitch muscle fibers b. myotube cells c. myoblast cells 22. Which of the following statements istrue? d. satellite cells a. Fast fibers have a small diameter. b. Fast fibers contain loosely packed myofibrils. c. Fast fibers have large glycogen reserves. d. Fast fibers have many mitochondria. 394 10 • Critical Thinking Questions Critical Thinking Questions 30. Why is elasticity an important quality of muscle 41. Is aerobic respiration more or less efficient than tissue? glycolysis? Explain your answer. 31. What would happen to skeletal muscle if the 42. What changes occur at the cellular level in epimysium were destroyed? response to endurance training? 32. Describe how tendons facilitate body movement. 43. What changes occur at the cellular level in 33. What are the five primary functions of skeletal response to resistance training? muscle? 44. What would be the drawback of cardiac 34. What are the opposite roles of voltage-gated contractions being the same duration as skeletal sodium channels and voltage-gated potassium muscle contractions? channels? 45. How are cardiac muscle cells similar to and 35. How would muscle contractions be affected if different from skeletal muscle cells? skeletal muscle fibers did not have T-tubules? 46. Why can smooth muscles contract over a wider 36. What causes the striated appearance of skeletal range of resting lengths than skeletal and cardiac muscle tissue? muscle? 37. How would muscle contractions be affected if ATP 47. Describe the differences between single-unit was completely depleted in a muscle fiber? smooth muscle and multiunit
