Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


cardiac muscle tissue? muscle? 37. How would muscle contractions be affected if ATP 47. Describe the differences between single-unit was completely depleted in a muscle fiber? smooth muscle and multiunit smooth muscle. 38. Why does a motor unit of the eye have few muscle 48. Why is muscle that has sustained significant fibers compared to a motor unit of the leg? damage unable to produce the same amount of 39. What factors contribute to the amount of tension power as it could before being damaged? produced in an individual muscle fiber? 49. Which muscle type(s) (skeletal, smooth, or 40. Why do muscle cells use creatine phosphate cardiac) can regenerate new muscle cells/fibers? instead of glycolysis to supply ATP for the first few Explain your answer. seconds of muscle contraction? Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 11 The Muscular System Figure11.1 A Body in MotionThe muscular system allows us to move, flex and contort our bodies. Practicing yoga, as pictured here, is a good example of the voluntary use of the muscular system. (credit: Dmitry Yanchylenko) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Describe the actions and roles of agonists and antagonists • Explain the structure and organization of muscle fascicles and their role in generating force • Explain the criteria used to name skeletal muscles • Identify the skeletal muscles and their actions on the skeleton and soft tissues of the body • Identify the origins and insertions of skeletal muscles and the prime movements INTRODUCTION Think about the things that you do each day—talking, walking, sitting, standing, and running—all of these activities require movement of particular skeletal muscles. Skeletal muscles are even used during sleep. The diaphragm is a sheet of skeletal muscle that has to contract and relax for you to breathe day and night. If you recall from your study of the skeletal system and joints, body movement occurs around the joints in the body. The focus of this chapter is on skeletal muscle organization. The system to name skeletal muscles will be explained; in some cases, the muscle is named by its shape, and in other cases it is named by its location or attachments to the skeleton. If you understand the meaning of the name of the muscle, often it will help you remember its location and/ or what it does. This chapter also will describe how skeletal muscles are
