Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the meaning of the name of the muscle, often it will help you remember its location and/ or what it does. This chapter also will describe how skeletal muscles are arranged to accomplish movement, and how other muscles may assist, or be arranged on the skeleton to resist or carry out the opposite movement. The actions of the skeletal muscles will be covered in a regional manner, working from the head down to the toes. 11.1 Interactions of Skeletal Muscles, Their Fascicle Arrangement, and Their Lever Systems LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Compare and contrast agonist and antagonist muscles • Describe how fascicles are arranged within a skeletal muscle • Explain the major events of a skeletal muscle contraction within a muscle in generating force 396 11 • The Muscular System To move the skeleton, the tension created by the contraction of the fibers in most skeletal muscles is transferred to the tendons. The tendons are strong bands of dense, regular connective tissue that connect muscles to bones. The bone connection is why this muscle tissue is called skeletal muscle. Interactions of Skeletal Muscles in the Body To pull on a bone, that is, to change the angle at its synovial joint, which essentially moves the skeleton, a skeletal muscle must also be attached to a fixed part of the skeleton. The moveable end of the muscle that attaches to the bone being pulled is called the muscle’sinsertion, and the end of the muscle attached to a fixed (stabilized) bone is called theorigin. During forearmflexion—bending the elbow—the brachioradialis assists the brachialis. Although a number of muscles may be involved in an action, the principal muscle involved is called theprime mover, oragonist. To lift a cup, a muscle called the biceps brachii is actually the prime mover; however, because it can be assisted by the brachialis, the brachialis is called asynergistin this action (Figure 11.2). A synergist can also be afixatorthat stabilizes the bone that is the attachment for the prime mover’s origin. FIGURE11.2 Prime Movers and Synergists The biceps brachii flex the lower arm. The brachoradialis, in the forearm, and brachialis, located deep to the biceps in the upper arm, are both synergists that aid in this motion. A muscle with the opposite action of the prime mover is called anantagonist. Antagonists play two important roles in muscle function: (1) they
