Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


both synergists that aid in this motion. A muscle with the opposite action of the prime mover is called anantagonist. Antagonists play two important roles in muscle function: (1) they maintain body or limb position, such as holding the arm out or standing erect; and (2) they control rapid movement, as in shadow boxing without landing a punch or the ability to check the motion of a limb. For example, to extend the knee, a group of four muscles called the quadriceps femoris in the anterior compartment of the thigh are activated (and would be called the agonists of knee extension). However, to flex the knee joint, an opposite or antagonistic set of muscles called the hamstrings is activated. As you can see, these terms would also be reversed for the opposing action. If you consider the first action as the knee bending, the hamstrings would be called the agonists and the quadriceps femoris would then be called the antagonists. SeeTable 11.1for a list of some agonists and antagonists. Access for free at openstax.org 11.1 • Interactions of Skeletal Muscles, Their Fascicle Arrangement, and Their Lever Systems 397 Agonist and Antagonist Skeletal Muscle Pairs Agonist Antagonist Movement Triceps brachii: in the Biceps brachii: in the anterior posterior The biceps brachii flexes the forearm, whereas the compartment of the arm compartment of the triceps brachii extends it. arm Quadriceps femoris: Hamstrings: group of three group of four muscles The hamstrings flex the leg, whereas the quadriceps muscles in the posterior in the anterior femoris extend it. compartment of the thigh compartment of the thigh Flexor digitorum superficialis Extensor digitorum: in The flexor digitorum superficialis and flexor digitorum and flexor digitorum the posterior profundus flex the fingers and the hand at the wrist, profundus: in the anterior compartment of the whereas the extensor digitorum extends the fingers compartment of the forearm forearm and the hand at the wrist. TABLE11.1 There are also skeletal muscles that do not pull against the skeleton for movements. For example, there are the muscles that produce facial expressions. The insertions and origins of facial muscles are in the skin, so that certain individual muscles contract to form a smile or frown, form sounds or words, and raise the eyebrows. There also are skeletal muscles in the tongue, and the external urinary and anal sphincters that allow for voluntary regulation of urination and defecation, respectively. In addition, the
