Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


and unfamiliar words can make learning the names of the muscles in the body seem daunting, but understanding the etymology can help. Etymology is the study of how the root of a particular word entered a language and how the use of the word evolved over time. Taking the time to learn the root of the words is crucial to understanding the vocabulary of anatomy and physiology. When you understand the names of muscles it will help you remember where the muscles are located and what they do (Figure 11.5,Figure 11.6, andTable 11.2). Pronunciation of words and terms will take a bit of time to master, but after you have some basic information; the correct names and pronunciations will become easier. Access for free at openstax.org 11.2 • Naming Skeletal Muscles 401 FIGURE11.5 Overview of the Muscular System On the anterior and posterior views of the muscular system above, superficial muscles (those at the surface) are shown on the right side of the body while deep muscles (those underneath the superficial muscles) are shown on the left half of the body. For the legs, superficial muscles are shown in the anterior view while the posterior view shows both 402 11 • The Muscular System superficial and deep muscles. FIGURE11.6 Understanding a Muscle Name from the Latin Mnemonic Device for Latin Roots Example Latin or Greek Translation Mnemonic Device ad to; toward ADvance toward your goal ab away from n/a sub under SUBmarines move under water. ductor something that moves A conDUCTOR makes a train move. anti against If you are antisocial, you are against engaging in social activities. epi on top of n/a apo to the side of n/a longissimus longest “Longissimus” is longer than the word “long.” longus long long brevis short brief maximus large max medius medium “Medius” and “medium” both begin with “med.” minimus tiny; little mini rectus straight To RECTify a situation is to straighten it out. multi many If something is MULTIcolored, it has many colors. uni one A UNIcorn has one horn. TABLE11.2 Access for free at openstax.org 11.3 • Axial Muscles of the Head, Neck, and Back 403 Example Latin or Greek Translation Mnemonic Device bi/di two If a ring is DIcast, it is made of two metals. tri three TRIple the amount of money is three times as much. quad four QUADruplets are four children born at one birth. externus outside EXternal
