Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


is made of two metals. tri three TRIple the amount of money is three times as much. quad four QUADruplets are four children born at one birth. externus outside EXternal internus inside INternal TABLE11.2 Anatomists name the skeletal muscles according to a number of criteria, each of which describes the muscle in some way. These include naming the muscle after its shape, its size compared to other muscles in the area, its location in the body or the location of its attachments to the skeleton, how many origins it has, or its action. The skeletal muscle’s anatomical location or its relationship to a particular bone often determines its name. For example, the frontalis muscle is located on top of the frontal bone of the skull. Similarly, the shapes of some muscles are very distinctive and the names, such as orbicularis, reflect the shape. For the buttocks, the size of the muscles influences the names: gluteusmaximus(largest), gluteusmedius(medium), and the gluteusminimus (smallest). Names were given to indicate length—brevis(short),longus(long)—and to identify position relative to the midline:lateralis(to the outside away from the midline), andmedialis(toward the midline). The direction of the muscle fibers and fascicles are used to describe muscles relative to the midline, such as therectus(straight) abdominis, or theoblique(at an angle) muscles of the abdomen. Some muscle names indicate the number of muscles in a group. One example of this is the quadriceps, a group of four muscles located on the anterior (front) thigh. Other muscle names can provide information as to how many origins a particular muscle has, such as the biceps brachii. The prefixbiindicates that the muscle has two origins andtriindicates three origins. The location of a muscle’s attachment can also appear in its name. When the name of a muscle is based on the attachments, the origin is always named first. For instance, the sternocleidomastoid muscle of the neck has a dual origin on the sternum (sterno) and clavicle (cleido), and it inserts on the mastoid process of the temporal bone. The last feature by which to name a muscle is its action. When muscles are named for the movement they produce, one can find action words in their name. Some examples areflexor(decreases the angle at the joint),extensor (increases the angle at the joint),abductor(moves the bone away from the midline), oradductor(moves the bone toward the midline). 11.3 Axial Muscles of the Head, Neck, and Back LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of
