Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


at the joint),abductor(moves the bone away from the midline), oradductor(moves the bone toward the midline). 11.3 Axial Muscles of the Head, Neck, and Back LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Identify the axial muscles of the face, head, and neck • Identify the movement and function of the face, head, and neck muscles The skeletal muscles are divided intoaxial(muscles of the trunk and head) andappendicular(muscles of the arms and legs) categories. This system reflects the bones of the skeleton system, which are also arranged in this manner. The axial muscles are grouped based on location, function, or both. Some of the axial muscles may seem to blur the boundaries because they cross over to the appendicular skeleton. The first grouping of the axial muscles you will review includes the muscles of the head and neck, then you will review the muscles of the vertebral column, and finally you will review the oblique and rectus muscles. Muscles That Create Facial Expression The origins of the muscles of facial expression are on the surface of the skull (remember, the origin of a muscle does 404 11 • The Muscular System not move). The insertions of these muscles have fibers intertwined with connective tissue and the dermis of the skin. Because the muscles insert in the skin rather than on bone, when they contract, the skin moves to create facial expression (Figure 11.7). FIGURE11.7 Muscles of Facial Expression Many of the muscles of facial expression insert into the skin surrounding the eyelids, nose and mouth, producing facial expressions by moving the skin rather than bones. Theorbicularis orisis a circular muscle that moves the lips, and theorbicularis oculiis a circular muscle that closes the eye. Theoccipitofrontalismuscle moves up the scalp and eyebrows. The muscle has a frontal belly and an occipital (near the occipital bone on the posterior part of the skull) belly. In other words, there is a muscle on the forehead (frontalis) and one on the back of the head (occipitalis), but there is no muscle across the top of the head. Instead, the two bellies are connected by a broad tendon called theepicranial aponeurosis, or galea aponeurosis (galea = “helmet”). The physicians originally studying human anatomy thought the skull looked like a helmet. A large portion of the face is composed of thebuccinatormuscle, which compresses the cheek. This muscle allows you to whistle,
