Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


studying human anatomy thought the skull looked like a helmet. A large portion of the face is composed of thebuccinatormuscle, which compresses the cheek. This muscle allows you to whistle, blow, and suck; and it contributes to the action of chewing. There are several small facial muscles, one of which is thecorrugator supercilii, which is the prime mover of the eyebrows. Place your finger on your eyebrows at the point of the bridge of the nose. Raise your eyebrows as if you were surprised and lower your eyebrows as if you were frowning. With these movements, you can feel the action of the corrugator supercilii. Additional muscles of facial expression are presented inFigure 11.8. Access for free at openstax.org 11.3 • Axial Muscles of the Head, Neck, and Back 405 FIGURE11.8 Muscles in Facial Expression Muscles That Move the Eyes The movement of the eyeball is under the control of theextrinsic eye muscles, which originate outside the eye and insert onto the outer surface of the white of the eye. These muscles are located inside the eye socket and cannot be seen on any part of the visible eyeball (Figure 11.9andTable 11.3). If you have ever been to a doctor who held up a finger and asked you to follow it up, down, and to both sides, the doctor is checking to make sure your eye muscles are acting in a coordinated pattern. 406 11 • The Muscular System FIGURE11.9 Muscles of the Eyes (a) The extrinsic eye muscles originate outside of the eye on the skull. (b) Each muscle inserts onto the eyeball. Muscles of the Eyes Target motion Prime Movement Target Origin Insertion direction mover Moves eyes up and Superior Common toward nose; rotates (elevates); Superior tendinous ring Superior surface Eyeballs eyes from 1 o’clock to 3 medial rectus (ring attaches to of eyeball o’clock (adducts) optic foramen) Moves eyes down and Inferior Common toward nose; rotates (depresses); Inferior tendinous ring Inferior surface of Eyeballs eyes from 6 o’clock to 3 medial rectus (ring attaches to eyeball o’clock (adducts) optic foramen) Common Moves eyes away from Lateral Lateral tendinous ring Lateral surface of Eyeballs nose (abducts) rectus (ring attaches to eyeball optic foramen) Common Medial tendinous ring Medial surface of Moves eyes toward nose Eyeballs Medial (adducts) rectus (ring attaches to eyeball optic foramen) Moves eyes up and away Surface of eyeball Superior from nose; rotates Inferior Floor
