Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


temporo- Mandible bone; jaw; moves lower jaw side- lateral (abducts); medial pterygoid mandibular maxilla to-side (adducts) joint TABLE11.4 Although the masseter and temporalis are responsible for elevating and closing the jaw to break food into digestible pieces, themedial pterygoidandlateral pterygoidmuscles provide assistance in chewing and moving food within the mouth. Muscles That Move the Tongue Although the tongue is obviously important for tasting food, it is also necessary for mastication,deglutition (swallowing), and speech (Figure 11.11andFigure 11.12). Because it is so moveable, the tongue facilitates complex speech patterns and sounds. FIGURE11.11 Muscles that Move the Tongue Access for free at openstax.org 11.3 • Axial Muscles of the Head, Neck, and Back 409 FIGURE11.12 Muscles for Tongue Movement, Swallowing, and Speech Tongue muscles can be extrinsic or intrinsic. Extrinsic tongue muscles insert into the tongue from outside origins, and the intrinsic tongue muscles insert into the tongue from origins within it. The extrinsic muscles move the whole tongue in different directions, whereas the intrinsic muscles allow the tongue to change its shape (such as, curling the tongue in a loop or flattening it). The extrinsic muscles all include the word root glossus (glossus = “tongue”), and the muscle names are derived from where the muscle originates. Thegenioglossus(genio = “chin”) originates on the mandible and allows the tongue to move downward and forward. Thestyloglossusoriginates on the styloid bone, and allows upward and backward motion. Thepalatoglossusoriginates on the soft palate to elevate the back of the tongue, and the hyoglossusoriginates on the hyoid bone to move the tongue downward and flatten it. 410 11 • The Muscular System Everyday Connection Anesthesia and the Tongue Muscles Before surgery, a patient must be made ready for general anesthesia. The normal homeostatic controls of the body are put “on hold” so that the patient can be prepped for surgery. Control of respiration must be switched from the patient’s homeostatic control to the control of the anesthesiologist. The drugs used for anesthesia relax a majority of the body’s muscles. Among the muscles affected during general anesthesia are those that are necessary for breathing and moving the tongue. Under anesthesia, the tongue can relax and partially or fully block the airway, and the muscles of respiration may not move the diaphragm or chest wall. To avoid possible complications, the safest procedure to use on a patient is called endotracheal intubation. Placing a tube into the trachea allows the doctors
