Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the diaphragm or chest wall. To avoid possible complications, the safest procedure to use on a patient is called endotracheal intubation. Placing a tube into the trachea allows the doctors to maintain a patient’s (open) airway to the lungs and seal the airway off from the oropharynx. Post-surgery, the anesthesiologist gradually changes the mixture of the gases that keep the patient unconscious, and when the muscles of respiration begin to function, the tube is removed. It still takes about 30 minutes for a patient to wake up, and for breathing muscles to regain control of respiration. After surgery, most people have a sore or scratchy throat for a few days. Muscles of the Anterior Neck The muscles of the anterior neck assist in deglutition (swallowing) and speech by controlling the positions of the larynx (voice box), and the hyoid bone, a horseshoe-shaped bone that functions as a solid foundation on which the tongue can move. The muscles of the neck are categorized according to their position relative to the hyoid bone (Figure 11.13).Suprahyoid musclesare superior to it, and theinfrahyoid musclesare located inferiorly. FIGURE11.13 Muscles of the Anterior Neck The anterior muscles of the neck facilitate swallowing and speech. The suprahyoid muscles originate from above the hyoid bone in the chin region. The infrahyoid muscles originate below the hyoid bone in the lower neck. The suprahyoid muscles raise the hyoid bone, the floor of the mouth, and the larynx during deglutition. These include thedigastricmuscle, which has anterior and posterior bellies that work to elevate the hyoid bone and larynx when one swallows; it also depresses the mandible. Thestylohyoidmuscle moves the hyoid bone posteriorly, elevating the larynx, and themylohyoidmuscle lifts it and helps press the tongue to the top of the mouth. The geniohyoiddepresses the mandible in addition to raising and pulling the hyoid bone anteriorly. Access for free at openstax.org 11.3 • Axial Muscles of the Head, Neck, and Back 411 The strap-like infrahyoid muscles generally depress the hyoid bone and control the position of the larynx. The omohyoidmuscle, which has superior and inferior bellies, depresses the hyoid bone in conjunction with the sternohyoidandthyrohyoidmuscles. The thyrohyoid muscle also elevates the larynx’s thyroid cartilage, whereas thesternothyroiddepresses it to create different tones of voice. Muscles That Move the Head The head, attached to the top of the vertebral column, is balanced, moved, and rotated by the neck muscles (Table 11.5). When these muscles
