Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


voice. Muscles That Move the Head The head, attached to the top of the vertebral column, is balanced, moved, and rotated by the neck muscles (Table 11.5). When these muscles act unilaterally, the head rotates. When they contract bilaterally, the head flexes or extends. The major muscle that laterally flexes and rotates the head is thesternocleidomastoid. In addition, both muscles working together are the flexors of the head. Place your fingers on both sides of the neck and turn your head to the left and to the right. You will feel the movement originate there. This muscle divides the neck into anterior and posterior triangles when viewed from the side (Figure 11.14). FIGURE11.14 Posterior and Lateral Views of the Neck The superficial and deep muscles of the neck are responsible for moving the head, cervical vertebrae, and scapulas. Muscles That Move the Head Target motion Movement Target Prime mover Origin Insertion direction Temporal Rotates and Individually: rotates bone tilts head to Skull; head to opposite (mastoid Sternocleidomastoid Sternum; clavicle the side; tilts vertebrae side; bilaterally: process); head forward flexion occipital bone Transverse and Individually: laterally Rotates and articular Skull; flexes and rotates Occipital tilts head Semispinalis capitis processes of vertebrae head to same side; bone backward cervical and bilaterally: extension thoracic vertebra TABLE11.5 412 11 • The Muscular System Target motion Movement Target Prime mover Origin Insertion direction Temporal Rotates and Individually: laterally Spinous bone tilts head to Skull; flexes and rotates processes of (mastoid the side; tilts Splenius capitis vertebrae head to same side; cervical and process); head bilaterally: extension thoracic vertebra occipital backward bone Rotates and Transverse and Individually: laterally Temporal tilts head to articular Skull; flexes and rotates bone the side; tilts Longissimus capitis processes of vertebrae head to same side; (mastoid head cervical and bilaterally: extension process) backward thoracic vertebra TABLE11.5 Muscles of the Posterior Neck and the Back The posterior muscles of the neck are primarily concerned with head movements, like extension. The back muscles stabilize and move the vertebral column, and are grouped according to the lengths and direction of the fascicles. Thespleniusmuscles originate at the midline and run laterally and superiorly to their insertions. From the sides and the back of the neck, thesplenius capitisinserts onto the head region, and thesplenius cervicisextends onto the cervical region. These muscles can extend the head, laterally flex it, and rotate it (Figure 11.15). Access for free
