Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


thesplenius capitisinserts onto the head region, and thesplenius cervicisextends onto the cervical region. These muscles can extend the head, laterally flex it, and rotate it (Figure 11.15). Access for free at openstax.org 11.3 • Axial Muscles of the Head, Neck, and Back 413 FIGURE11.15 Muscles of the Neck and Back The large, complex muscles of the neck and back move the head, shoulders, and vertebral column. Theerector spinae groupforms the majority of the muscle mass of the back and it is the primary extensor of the vertebral column. It controls flexion, lateral flexion, and rotation of the vertebral column, and maintains the lumbar curve. The erector spinae comprises the iliocostalis (laterally placed) group, the longissimus (intermediately placed) group, and the spinalis (medially placed) group. Theiliocostalis groupincludes theiliocostalis cervicis, associated with the cervical region; theiliocostalis thoracis, associated with the thoracic region; and theiliocostalis lumborum, associated with the lumbar region. The three muscles of thelongissimus groupare thelongissimus capitis, associated with the head region; the longissimus cervicis, associated with the cervical region; and thelongissimus thoracis, associated with the thoracic region. The third group, thespinalis group, comprises thespinalis capitis(head region), thespinalis cervicis(cervical region), and thespinalis thoracis(thoracic region). Thetransversospinalesmuscles run from the transverse processes to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. Similar to the erector spinae muscles, the semispinalis muscles in this group are named for the areas of the body with which they are associated. The semispinalis muscles include thesemispinalis capitis, thesemispinalis cervicis, and thesemispinalis thoracis. Themultifidusmuscle of the lumbar region helps extend and laterally flex 414 11 • The Muscular System the vertebral column. Important in the stabilization of the vertebral column is thesegmental muscle group, which includes the interspinales and intertransversarii muscles. These muscles bring together the spinous and transverse processes of each consecutive vertebra. Finally, thescalene muscleswork together to flex, laterally flex, and rotate the head. They also contribute to deep inhalation. The scalene muscles include theanterior scalenemuscle (anterior to the middle scalene), themiddle scalenemuscle (the longest, intermediate between the anterior and posterior scalenes), and theposterior scalenemuscle (the smallest, posterior to the middle scalene). 11.4 Axial Muscles of the Abdominal Wall, and Thorax LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Identify the intrinsic skeletal muscles of the back and neck, and the skeletal muscles of the abdominal wall and thorax • Identify the movement and function of the intrinsic skeletal muscles of the back
