Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


muscles of the back and neck, and the skeletal muscles of the abdominal wall and thorax • Identify the movement and function of the intrinsic skeletal muscles of the back and neck, and the skeletal muscles of the abdominal wall and thorax It is a complex job to balance the body on two feet and walk upright. The muscles of the vertebral column, thorax, and abdominal wall extend, flex, and stabilize different parts of the body’s trunk. The deep muscles of the core of the body help maintain posture as well as carry out other functions. The brain sends out electrical impulses to these various muscle groups to control posture by alternate contraction and relaxation. This is necessary so that no single muscle group becomes fatigued too quickly. If any one group fails to function, body posture will be compromised. Muscles of the Abdomen There are four pairs of abdominal muscles that cover the anterior and lateral abdominal region and meet at the anterior midline. These muscles of the anterolateral abdominal wall can be divided into four groups: the external obliques, the internal obliques, the transversus abdominis, and the rectus abdominis (Figure 11.16andTable 11.6). Access for free at openstax.org 11.4 • Axial Muscles of the Abdominal Wall, and Thorax 415 FIGURE11.16 Muscles of the Abdomen (a) The anterior abdominal muscles include the medially located rectus abdominis, which is covered by a sheet of connective tissue called the rectus sheath. On the flanks of the body, medial to the rectus abdominis, the abdominal wall is composed of three layers. The external oblique muscles form the superficial layer, while the internal oblique muscles form the middle layer, and the transversus abdominis forms the deepest layer. (b) The muscles of the lower back move the lumbar spine but also assist in femur movements. 416 11 • The Muscular System Muscles of the Abdomen Target Movement Target motion Prime mover Origin Insertion direction External Supination; Ribs Ribs 7–10; Twisting at waist; also bending to the Vertebral obliques; lateral 5–12; linea alba; side column internal flexion ilium ilium obliques Squeezing abdomen during forceful Ilium; Sternum; Abdominal Transversus exhalations, defecation, urination, and Compression ribs linea alba; cavity abdominis childbirth 5–10 pubis Sternum; Vertebral Rectus Sitting up Flexion Pubis ribs 5 and column abdominis 7 Ilium; Rib 12; Vertebral Lateral Quadratus Bending to the side ribs vertebrae column flexion lumborum 5–10 L1–L4 TABLE11.6 There are three flat
