Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the normal movements the joint performs. The PT will ask you to abduct and adduct, circumduct, and flex and extend the arm. The PT will note the shoulder’s degree of function, and based on the assessment of the injury, will create an Access for free at openstax.org 11.4 • Axial Muscles of the Abdominal Wall, and Thorax 417 appropriate physical therapy plan. The first step in physical therapy will probably be applying a heat pack to the injured site, which acts much like a warm-up to draw blood to the area, to enhance healing. You will be instructed to do a series of exercises to continue the therapy at home, followed by icing, to decrease inflammation and swelling, which will continue for several weeks. When physical therapy is complete, the PT will do an exit exam and send a detailed report on the improved range of motion and return of normal limb function to your doctor. Gradually, as the injury heals, the shoulder will begin to function correctly. A PT works closely with patients to help them get back to their normal level of physical activity. Muscles of the Thorax The muscles of the chest serve to facilitate breathing by changing the size of the thoracic cavity (Table 11.7). When you inhale, your chest rises because the cavity expands. Alternately, when you exhale, your chest falls because the thoracic cavity decreases in size. Muscles of the Thorax Prime Movement Target Target motion direction Origin Insertion mover Sternum; ribs Inhalation; Thoracic Central Compression; expansion Diaphragm 6–12; lumbar exhalation cavity tendon vertebrae Rib superior Rib inferior to Elevation (expands External to each each Inhalation;exhalation Ribs thoracic cavity) intercostals intercostal intercostal muscle muscle Rib inferior to Rib superior Movement along Internal each to each Forced exhalation Ribs superior/inferior axis to intercostals intercostal intercostal bring ribs closer together muscle muscle TABLE11.7 The Diaphragm The change in volume of the thoracic cavity during breathing is due to the alternate contraction and relaxation of the diaphragm(Figure 11.17). It separates the thoracic and abdominal cavities, and is dome-shaped at rest. The superior surface of the diaphragm is convex, creating the elevated floor of the thoracic cavity. The inferior surface is concave, creating the curved roof of the abdominal cavity. 418 11 • The Muscular System FIGURE11.17 Muscles of the Diaphragm The diaphragm separates the thoracic and abdominal cavities. Defecating, urination, and even childbirth involve cooperation between the
