Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


abdominal cavity. 418 11 • The Muscular System FIGURE11.17 Muscles of the Diaphragm The diaphragm separates the thoracic and abdominal cavities. Defecating, urination, and even childbirth involve cooperation between the diaphragm and abdominal muscles (this cooperation is referred to as the “Valsalva maneuver”). You hold your breath by a steady contraction of the diaphragm; this stabilizes the volume and pressure of the peritoneal cavity. When the abdominal muscles contract, the pressure cannot push the diaphragm up, so it increases pressure on the intestinal tract (defecation), urinary tract (urination), or reproductive tract (childbirth). The inferior surface of the pericardial sac and the inferior surfaces of the pleural membranes (parietal pleura) fuse onto the central tendon of the diaphragm. To the sides of the tendon are the skeletal muscle portions of the diaphragm, which insert into the tendon while having a number of origins including the xiphoid process of the sternum anteriorly, the inferior six ribs and their cartilages laterally, and the lumbar vertebrae and 12th ribs posteriorly. The diaphragm also includes three openings for the passage of structures between the thorax and the abdomen. The inferior vena cava passes through thecaval opening, and the esophagus and attached nerves pass through the esophageal hiatus. The aorta, thoracic duct, and azygous vein pass through the aortic hiatus of the posterior diaphragm. The Intercostal Muscles There are three sets of muscles, calledintercostal muscles, which span each of the intercostal spaces. The principal role of the intercostal muscles is to assist in breathing by changing the dimensions of the rib cage (Figure 11.18). Access for free at openstax.org 11.4 • Axial Muscles of the Abdominal Wall, and Thorax 419 FIGURE11.18 Intercostal Muscles The external intercostals are located laterally on the sides of the body. The internal intercostals are located medially near the sternum. The innermost intercostals are located deep to both the internal and external intercostals. The 11 pairs of superficialexternal intercostalmuscles aid in inspiration of air during breathing because when they contract, they raise the rib cage, which expands it. The 11 pairs ofinternal intercostalmuscles, just under the externals, are used for expiration because they draw the ribs together to constrict the rib cage. Theinnermost intercostalmuscles are the deepest, and they act as synergists for the action of the internal intercostals. Muscles of the Pelvic Floor and Perineum The pelvic floor is a muscular sheet that defines the inferior portion of the pelvic cavity.
