Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


for the action of the internal intercostals. Muscles of the Pelvic Floor and Perineum The pelvic floor is a muscular sheet that defines the inferior portion of the pelvic cavity. Thepelvic diaphragm, spanning anteriorly to posteriorly from the pubis to the coccyx, comprises the levator ani and the ischiococcygeus. Its openings include the anal canal and urethra, and the vagina in females. The largelevator aniconsists of two skeletal muscles, thepubococcygeusand theiliococcygeus(Figure 11.19). The levator ani is considered the most important muscle of the pelvic floor because it supports the pelvic viscera. It resists the pressure produced by contraction of the abdominal muscles so that the pressure is applied to the colon to aid in defecation and to the uterus to aid in childbirth (assisted by theischiococcygeus, which pulls the coccyx anteriorly). This muscle also creates skeletal muscle sphincters at the urethra and anus. 420 11 • The Muscular System FIGURE11.19 Muscles of the Pelvic Floor The pelvic floor muscles support the pelvic organs, resist intra-abdominal pressure, and work as sphincters for the urethra, rectum, and vagina. Theperineumis the diamond-shaped space between the pubic symphysis (anteriorly), the coccyx (posteriorly), and the ischial tuberosities (laterally), lying just inferior to the pelvic diaphragm (levator ani and coccygeus). Divided transversely into triangles, the anterior is theurogenital triangle, which includes the external genitals. The posterior is theanal triangle, which contains the anus (Figure 11.20). The perineum is also divided into superficial and deep layers with some of the muscles common to people of any sex (Figure 11.21). Females also have the compressor urethraeand thesphincter urethrovaginalis, which function to close the vagina. In males, there is the deep transverse perinealmuscle that plays a role in ejaculation. FIGURE11.20 Muscles of the Perineum The perineum muscles play roles in urination in both sexes, ejaculation in males, and vaginal contraction in females. Access for free at openstax.org 11.5 • Muscles of the Pectoral Girdle and Upper Limbs 421 FIGURE11.21 Muscles of the Perineum Common to All Humans 11.5 Muscles of the Pectoral Girdle and Upper Limbs LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Identify the muscles of the pectoral girdle and upper limbs • Identify the movement and function of the pectoral girdle and upper limbs Muscles of the shoulder and upper limb can be divided into four groups: muscles that stabilize and position the pectoral girdle, muscles that move the arm,
