Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Muscles of the Pectoral Girdle and Upper Limbs 423 Position Target motion Prime in the Movement Target Origin Insertion direction mover thorax Stabilizes scapula Thoracic Medial Posterior Retracts; rotates Rhomboid during pectoral girdle Scapula vertebrae border of thorax inferiorly major movement (T2–T5) scapula Cervical and Stabilizes scapula Medial Posterior Retracts; rotates Rhomboid thoracic during pectoral girdle Scapula border of thorax inferiorly minor vertebrae movement scapula (C7 and T1) TABLE11.8 Muscles That Move the Humerus Similar to the muscles that position the pectoral girdle, muscles that cross the shoulder joint and move the humerus bone of the arm include both axial and scapular muscles (Figure 11.23andFigure 11.24). The two axial muscles are the pectoralis major and the latissimus dorsi. Thepectoralis majoris thick and fan-shaped, covering much of the superior portion of the anterior thorax. The broad, triangularlatissimus dorsiis located on the inferior part of the back, where it inserts into a thick connective tissue sheath called an aponeurosis. 424 11 • The Muscular System FIGURE11.23 Muscles That Move the Humerus (a, c) The muscles that move the humerus anteriorly are generally located on the anterior side of the body and originate from the sternum (e.g., pectoralis major) or the anterior side of the scapula (e.g., subscapularis). (b) The muscles that move the humerus superiorly generally originate from the superior surfaces of the scapula and/or the clavicle (e.g., deltoids). The muscles that move the humerus inferiorly generally originate from middle or lower back (e.g., latissiumus dorsi). (d) The muscles that move the humerus posteriorly are generally located on the posterior side of the body and insert into the scapula (e.g., infraspinatus). Access for free at openstax.org 11.5 • Muscles of the Pectoral Girdle and Upper Limbs 425 FIGURE11.24 Muscles That Move the Humerus The rest of the shoulder muscles originate on the scapula. The anatomical and ligamental structure of the shoulder joint and the arrangements of the muscles covering it, allows the arm to carry out different types of movements. The deltoid, the thick muscle that creates the rounded lines of the shoulder is the major abductor of the arm, but it also facilitates flexing and medial rotation, as well as extension and lateral rotation. Thesubscapularisoriginates on the anterior scapula and medially rotates the arm. Named for their locations, thesupraspinatus(superior to the spine of the scapula) and theinfraspinatus(inferior to the spine of the scapula) abduct the arm, and laterally rotate the arm,
