Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


rotates the arm. Named for their locations, thesupraspinatus(superior to the spine of the scapula) and theinfraspinatus(inferior to the spine of the scapula) abduct the arm, and laterally rotate the arm, respectively. The thick and flatteres majoris inferior to the teres minor and extends the arm, and assists in adduction and medial rotation of it. The longteres minorlaterally rotates and extends the arm. Finally, the coracobrachialisflexes and adducts the arm. The tendons of the deep subscapularis, supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor connect the scapula to the humerus, forming therotator cuff(musculotendinous cuff), the circle of tendons around the shoulder joint. When baseball pitchers undergo shoulder surgery it is usually on the rotator cuff, which becomes pinched and inflamed, and may tear away from the bone due to the repetitive motion of bring the arm overhead to throw a fast pitch. Muscles That Move the Forearm The forearm, made of the radius and ulna bones, has four main types of action at the hinge of the elbow joint: 426 11 • The Muscular System flexion, extension, pronation, and supination. The forearm flexors include the biceps brachii, brachialis, and brachioradialis. The extensors are thetriceps brachiiandanconeus. The pronators are thepronator teresand the pronator quadratus, and thesupinatoris the only one that turns the forearm anteriorly. When the forearm faces anteriorly, it is supinated. When the forearm faces posteriorly, it is pronated. The biceps brachii, brachialis, and brachioradialis flex the forearm. The two-headedbiceps brachiicrosses the shoulder and elbow joints to flex the forearm, also taking part in supinating the forearm at the radioulnar joints and flexing the arm at the shoulder joint. Deep to the biceps brachii, thebrachialisprovides additional power in flexing the forearm. Finally, thebrachioradialiscan flex the forearm quickly or help lift a load slowly. These muscles and their associated blood vessels and nerves form theanterior compartment of the arm(anterior flexor compartment of the arm) (Figure 11.25andFigure 11.26). Access for free at openstax.org 11.5 • Muscles of the Pectoral Girdle and Upper Limbs 427 FIGURE11.25 Muscles That Move the Forearm The muscles originating in the upper arm flex, extend, pronate, and supinate the forearm. The muscles originating in the forearm move the wrists, hands, and fingers. 428 11 • The Muscular System FIGURE11.26 Muscles That Move the Forearm Muscles That Move the Wrist, Hand, and Fingers Wrist, hand, and finger movements are facilitated by two groups of muscles. The forearm is the origin of the extrinsic
