Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the Forearm Muscles That Move the Wrist, Hand, and Fingers Wrist, hand, and finger movements are facilitated by two groups of muscles. The forearm is the origin of the extrinsic muscles of the hand. The palm is the origin of the intrinsic muscles of the hand. Muscles of the Arm That Move the Wrists, Hands, and Fingers The muscles in theanterior compartment of the forearm(anterior flexor compartment of the forearm) originate on the humerus and insert onto different parts of the hand. These make up the bulk of the forearm. From lateral to medial, thesuperficial anterior compartment of the forearmincludes theflexor carpi radialis,palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, andflexor digitorum superficialis. The flexor digitorum superficialis flexes the hand as well as the digits at the knuckles, which allows for rapid finger movements, as in typing or playing a musical instrument (see Figure 11.27andTable 11.9). However, poor ergonomics can irritate the tendons of these muscles as they slide back and forth with the carpal tunnel of the anterior wrist and pinch the median nerve, which also travels through the tunnel, causing Carpal Tunnel Syndrome. Thedeep anterior compartmentproduces flexion and bends fingers to make a fist. These are theflexor pollicis longusand theflexor digitorum profundus. The muscles in thesuperficial posterior compartment of the forearm(superficial posterior extensor compartment of the forearm) originate on the humerus. These are theextensor radialis longus,extensor carpi radialis brevis, extensor digitorum,extensor digiti minimi, and theextensor carpi ulnaris. The muscles of thedeep posterior compartment of the forearm(deep posterior extensor compartment of the forearm) originate on the radius and ulna. These include theabductor pollicis longus,extensor pollicis brevis, Access for free at openstax.org 11.5 • Muscles of the Pectoral Girdle and Upper Limbs 429 extensor pollicis longus, andextensor indicis(seeFigure 11.27). FIGURE11.27 Muscles That Move the Wrist, Hands, and Forearm The tendons of the forearm muscles attach to the wrist and extend into the hand. Fibrous bands calledretinacula sheath the tendons at the wrist. Theflexor retinaculumextends over the palmar surface of the hand while the extensor retinaculumextends over the dorsal surface of the hand. Intrinsic Muscles of the Hand Theintrinsic muscles of the handboth originate and insert within it (Figure 11.28). These muscles allow your fingers to also make precise movements for actions, such as typing or writing. These muscles are divided into three 430 11 • The Muscular System groups. Thethenarmuscles are on the radial aspect of the palm. Thehypothenarmuscles are on the medial
