Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


typing or writing. These muscles are divided into three 430 11 • The Muscular System groups. Thethenarmuscles are on the radial aspect of the palm. Thehypothenarmuscles are on the medial aspect of the palm, and theintermediatemuscles are midpalmar. The thenar muscles include theabductor pollicis brevis,opponens pollicis,flexor pollicis brevis, and the adductor pollicis. These muscles form thethenar eminence, the rounded contour of the base of the thumb, and all act on the thumb. The movements of the thumb play an integral role in most precise movements of the hand. The hypothenar muscles include theabductor digiti minimi,flexor digiti minimi brevis, and theopponens digiti minimi. These muscles form thehypothenar eminence, the rounded contour of the little finger, and as such, they all act on the little finger. Finally, the intermediate muscles act on all the fingers and include thelumbrical, the palmar interossei, and thedorsal interossei. FIGURE11.28 Intrinsic Muscles of the Hand The intrinsic muscles of the hand both originate and insert within the hand. These muscles provide the fine motor control of the fingers by flexing, extending, abducting, and adducting the more distal finger and thumb segments. Access for free at openstax.org 11.5 • Muscles of the Pectoral Girdle and Upper Limbs 431 Intrinsic Muscles of the Hand Target Prime Muscle Movement Target motion Origin Insertion mover direction Flexor Lateral base of Abductor Thenar Moves thumb toward retinaculum; proximal Thumb Abduction pollicis muscles body and nearby phalanx of brevis carpals thumb Moves thumb across Flexor Thenar Opponens Anterior of first palm to touch other Thumb Opposition retinaculum; muscles pollicis metacarpal fingers trapezium Lateral base of Flexor Flexor Thenar proximal Flexes thumb Thumb Flexion pollicis retinaculum; muscles phalanx of brevis trapezium thumb Capitate bone; bases Medial base of of Thenar Moves thumb away Adductor proximal Thumb Adduction metacarpals muscles from body pollicis phalanx of 2–4; front of thumb metacarpal 3 Medial side of Abductor Hypothenar Moves little finger Little Pisiform proximal Abduction digiti muscles toward body finger bone phalanx of little minimi finger Flexor Medial side of Hamate Hypothenar Little digiti proximal Flexes little finger Flexion bone; flexor muscles finger minimi phalanx of little retinaculum brevis finger Moves little finger Opponens Hamate Hypothenar Little Medial side of across palm to touch Opposition digiti bone; flexor muscles finger fifth metacarpal thumb minimi retinaculum Palm Flexes each finger at (lateral Fingers 2–5 metacarpo- sides of (lateral edges of Intermediate phalangeal joints; Fingers Flexion Lumbricals tendons in
