Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


well. Therefore, what the leg muscles lack in range of motion and versatility, they make up for in size and power, facilitating the body’s stabilization, posture, and movement. Gluteal Region Muscles That Move the Femur Most muscles that insert on the femur (the thigh bone) and move it, originate on the pelvic girdle. Thepsoas major andiliacusmake up theiliopsoas group. Some of the largest and most powerful muscles in the body are the gluteal muscles orgluteal group. Thegluteus maximusis the largest; deep to the gluteus maximus is thegluteus medius, and deep to the gluteus medius is thegluteus minimus, the smallest of the trio (Figure 11.29andFigure 11.30). Access for free at openstax.org 11.6 • Appendicular Muscles of the Pelvic Girdle and Lower Limbs 433 FIGURE11.29 Hip and Thigh Muscles The large and powerful muscles of the hip that move the femur generally originate on the pelvic girdle and insert into the femur. The muscles that move the lower leg typically originate on the femur and insert into the bones of the knee joint. The anterior muscles of the femur extend the lower leg but also aid in flexing the thigh. The posterior muscles of the femur flex the lower leg but also aid in extending the thigh. A combination of gluteal and thigh muscles also adduct, abduct, and rotate the thigh and lower leg. 434 11 • The Muscular System FIGURE11.30 Gluteal Region Muscles That Move the Femur Thetensor fascia lataeis a thick, squarish muscle in the superior aspect of the lateral thigh. It acts as a synergist of the gluteus medius and iliopsoas in flexing and abducting the thigh. It also helps stabilize the lateral aspect of the Access for free at openstax.org 11.6 • Appendicular Muscles of the Pelvic Girdle and Lower Limbs 435 knee by pulling on theiliotibial tract(band), making it taut. Deep to the gluteus maximus, thepiriformis,obturator internus,obturator externus,superior gemellus,inferior gemellus, andquadratus femorislaterally rotate the femur at the hip. Theadductor longus,adductor brevis, andadductor magnuscan both medially and laterally rotate the thigh depending on the placement of the foot. The adductor longus flexes the thigh, whereas the adductor magnus extends it. Thepectineusadducts and flexes the femur at the hip as well. The pectineus is located in thefemoral triangle, which is formed at the junction between the hip and the leg and also includes the femoral nerve, the femoral artery, the femoral vein, and the deep inguinal lymph nodes. Thigh
