Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


is formed at the junction between the hip and the leg and also includes the femoral nerve, the femoral artery, the femoral vein, and the deep inguinal lymph nodes. Thigh Muscles That Move the Femur, Tibia, and Fibula Deep fascia in the thigh separates it into medial, anterior, and posterior compartments (seeFigure 11.29andFigure 11.31). The muscles in themedial compartment of the thighare responsible for adducting the femur at the hip. Along with the adductor longus, adductor brevis, adductor magnus, and pectineus, the strap-likegracilisadducts the thigh in addition to flexing the leg at the knee. 436 11 • The Muscular System FIGURE11.31 Thigh Muscles That Move the Femur, Tibia, and Fibula The muscles of theanterior compartment of the thighflex the thigh and extend the leg. This compartment contains thequadriceps femoris group, which actually comprises four muscles that extend and stabilize the knee. Therectus femorisis on the anterior aspect of the thigh, thevastus lateralisis on the lateral aspect of the thigh, thevastus medialisis on the medial aspect of the thigh, and thevastus intermediusis between the vastus lateralis and vastus medialis and deep to the rectus femoris. The tendon common to all four is thequadriceps tendon (patellar tendon), which inserts into the patella and continues below it as thepatellar ligament. The patellar ligament attaches to the tibial tuberosity. In addition to the quadriceps femoris, thesartoriusis a band-like muscle that extends from the anterior superior iliac spine to the medial side of the proximal tibia. This versatile muscle flexes the leg at the knee and flexes, abducts, and laterally rotates the leg at the hip. This muscle allows us to sit Access for free at openstax.org 11.6 • Appendicular Muscles of the Pelvic Girdle and Lower Limbs 437 cross-legged. Theposterior compartment of the thighincludes muscles that flex the leg and extend the thigh. The three long muscles on the back of the knee are thehamstring group, which flexes the knee. These are thebiceps femoris, semitendinosus, andsemimembranosus. The tendons of these muscles form thepopliteal fossa, the diamond- shaped space at the back of the knee. Muscles That Move the Feet and Toes Similar to the thigh muscles, the muscles of the leg are divided by deep fascia into compartments, although the leg has three: anterior, lateral, and posterior (Figure 11.32andFigure 11.33). FIGURE11.32 Muscles of the Lower Leg The muscles of the anterior compartment of the lower leg are generally responsible for dorsiflexion, and the muscles
