Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


lateral, and posterior (Figure 11.32andFigure 11.33). FIGURE11.32 Muscles of the Lower Leg The muscles of the anterior compartment of the lower leg are generally responsible for dorsiflexion, and the muscles of the posterior compartment of the lower leg are generally responsible for plantar flexion. The lateral and medial muscles in both compartments invert, evert, and rotate the foot. 438 11 • The Muscular System FIGURE11.33 Muscles That Move the Feet and Toes The muscles in theanterior compartment of the leg: thetibialis anterior, a long and thick muscle on the lateral surface of the tibia, theextensor hallucis longus, deep under it, and theextensor digitorum longus, lateral to it, all contribute to raising the front of the foot when they contract. Thefibularis tertius, a small muscle that originates on the anterior surface of the fibula, is associated with the extensor digitorum longus and sometimes fused to it, but is not present in all people. Thick bands of connective tissue called thesuperior extensor retinaculum(transverse ligament of the ankle) and theinferior extensor retinaculum, hold the tendons of these muscles in place during dorsiflexion. Access for free at openstax.org 11.6 • Appendicular Muscles of the Pelvic Girdle and Lower Limbs 439 Thelateral compartment of the legincludes two muscles: thefibularis longus(peroneus longus) and thefibularis brevis(peroneus brevis). The superficial muscles in theposterior compartment of the legall insert onto the calcaneal tendon(Achilles tendon), a strong tendon that inserts into the calcaneal bone of the ankle. The muscles in this compartment are large and strong and keep humans upright. The most superficial and visible muscle of the calf is thegastrocnemius. Deep to the gastrocnemius is the wide, flatsoleus. Theplantarisruns obliquely between the two; some people may have two of these muscles, whereas no plantaris is observed in about seven percent of other cadaver dissections. The plantaris tendon is a desirable substitute for the fascia lata in hernia repair, tendon transplants, and repair of ligaments. There are four deep muscles in the posterior compartment of the leg as well: thepopliteus,flexor digitorum longus,flexor hallucis longus, andtibialis posterior. The foot also has intrinsic muscles, which originate and insert within it (similar to the intrinsic muscles of the hand). These muscles primarily provide support for the foot and its arch, and contribute to movements of the toes (Figure 11.34andFigure 11.35). The principal support for the longitudinal arch of the foot is a deep fascia calledplantar aponeurosis, which runs from the calcaneus bone to
