Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the muscle attached to a fixed, or stabilized, bone is Systems called the origin. The muscle primarily responsible for a movement is called the prime mover, and muscles Skeletal muscles each have an origin and an insertion. that assist in this action are called synergists. A The end of the muscle that attaches to the bone being synergist that makes the insertion site more stable is 446 11 • Chapter Review called a fixator. Meanwhile, a muscle with the opposite cervicis, and the spinalis thoracis. The action of the prime mover is called an antagonist. transversospinales include the semispinalis capitis, Several factors contribute to the force generated by a semispinalis cervicis, semispinalis thoracis, multifidus, skeletal muscle. One is the arrangement of the and rotatores. The segmental muscles include the fascicles in the skeletal muscle. Fascicles can be interspinales and intertransversarii. Finally, the parallel, circular, convergent, pennate, fusiform, or scalenes include the anterior scalene, middle scalene, triangular. Each arrangement has its own range of and posterior scalene. motion and ability to do work. 11.4Axial Muscles of the Abdominal Wall, 11.2Naming Skeletal Muscles and Thorax Muscle names are based on many characteristics. The Made of skin, fascia, and four pairs of muscle, the location of a muscle in the body is important. Some anterior abdominal wall protects the organs located in muscles are named based on their size and location, the abdomen and moves the vertebral column. These such as the gluteal muscles of the buttocks. Other muscles include the rectus abdominis, which extends muscle names can indicate the location in the body or through the entire length of the trunk, the external bones with which the muscle is associated, such as the oblique, the internal oblique, and the transversus tibialis anterior. The shapes of some muscles are abdominis. The quadratus lumborum forms the distinctive; for example, the direction of the muscle posterior abdominal wall. fibers is used to describe muscles of the body midline. The muscles of the thorax play a large role in breathing, The origin and/or insertion can also be features used to especially the dome-shaped diaphragm. When it name a muscle; examples are the biceps brachii, contracts and flattens, the volume inside the pleural triceps brachii, and the pectoralis major. cavities increases, which decreases the pressure within 11.3Axial Muscles of the Head, Neck, and them. As a result, air will flow into the lungs. The Back external and
