Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


pectoralis major. cavities increases, which decreases the pressure within 11.3Axial Muscles of the Head, Neck, and them. As a result, air will flow into the lungs. The Back external and internal intercostal muscles span the space between the ribs and help change the shape of Muscles are either axial muscles or appendicular. The the rib cage and the volume-pressure ratio inside the axial muscles are grouped based on location, function, pleural cavities during inspiration and expiration. or both. Some axial muscles cross over to the appendicular skeleton. The muscles of the head and The perineum muscles play roles in urination in both neck are all axial. The muscles in the face create facial sexes, ejaculation in males, and vaginal contraction in expression by inserting into the skin rather than onto females. The pelvic floor muscles support the pelvic bone. Muscles that move the eyeballs are extrinsic, organs, resist intra-abdominal pressure, and work as meaning they originate outside of the eye and insert sphincters for the urethra, rectum, and vagina. onto it. Tongue muscles are both extrinsic and intrinsic. 11.5Muscles of the Pectoral Girdle and The genioglossus depresses the tongue and moves it Upper Limbs anteriorly; the styloglossus lifts the tongue and retracts it; the palatoglossus elevates the back of the tongue; The clavicle and scapula make up the pectoral girdle, and the hyoglossus depresses and flattens it. The which provides a stable origin for the muscles that muscles of the anterior neck facilitate swallowing and move the humerus. The muscles that position and speech, stabilize the hyoid bone and position the stabilize the pectoral girdle are located on the thorax. larynx. The muscles of the neck stabilize and move the The anterior thoracic muscles are the subclavius, head. The sternocleidomastoid divides the neck into pectoralis minor, and the serratus anterior. The anterior and posterior triangles. posterior thoracic muscles are the trapezius, levator scapulae, rhomboid major, and rhomboid minor. Nine The muscles of the back and neck that move the muscles cross the shoulder joint to move the humerus. vertebral column are complex, overlapping, and can be The ones that originate on the axial skeleton are the divided into five groups. The splenius group includes pectoralis major and the latissimus dorsi. The deltoid, the splenius capitis and the splenius cervicis. The subscapularis, supraspinatus, infraspinatus, teres erector spinae has three subgroups. The iliocostalis major, teres minor, and coracobrachialis originate on group includes
