Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


The deltoid, the splenius capitis and the splenius cervicis. The subscapularis, supraspinatus, infraspinatus, teres erector spinae has three subgroups. The iliocostalis major, teres minor, and coracobrachialis originate on group includes the iliocostalis cervicis, the iliocostalis the scapula. thoracis, and the iliocostalis lumborum. The longissimus group includes the longissimus capitis, the The forearm flexors include the biceps brachii, longissimus cervicis, and the longissimus thoracis. The brachialis, and brachioradialis. The extensors are the spinalis group includes the spinalis capitis, the spinalis Access for free at openstax.org 11 • Review Questions 447 triceps brachii and anconeus. The pronators are the many muscles. In the gluteal region, the psoas major pronator teres and the pronator quadratus. The and iliacus form the iliopsoas. The large and strong supinator is the only one that turns the forearm gluteus maximus, gluteus medius, and gluteus anteriorly. minimus extend and abduct the femur. Along with the gluteus maximus, the tensor fascia lata muscle forms The extrinsic muscles of the hands originate along the the iliotibial tract. The lateral rotators of the femur at forearm and insert into the hand in order to facilitate the hip are the piriformis, obturator internus, obturator crude movements of the wrists, hands, and fingers. The externus, superior gemellus, inferior gemellus, and superficial anterior compartment of the forearm quadratus femoris. On the medial part of the thigh, the produces flexion. These muscles are the flexor carpi adductor longus, adductor brevis, and adductor radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, and the magnus adduct the thigh and medially rotate it. The flexor digitorum superficialis. The deep anterior pectineus muscle adducts and flexes the femur at the compartment produces flexion as well. These are the hip. flexor pollicis longus and the flexor digitorum profundus. The rest of the compartments produce The thigh muscles that move the femur, tibia, and extension. The extensor carpi radialis longus, extensor fibula are divided into medial, anterior, and posterior carpi radialis brevis, extensor digitorum, extensor digiti compartments. The medial compartment includes the minimi, and extensor carpi ulnaris are the muscles adductors, pectineus, and the gracilis. The anterior found in the superficial posterior compartment. The compartment comprises the quadriceps femoris, deep posterior compartment includes the abductor quadriceps tendon, patellar ligament, and the longus, extensor pollicis brevis, extensor pollicis sartorius. The quadriceps femoris is made of four longus, and the extensor indicis. muscles: the rectus femoris, the vastus lateralis, the vastus medius, and the vastus
