Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


pollicis brevis, extensor pollicis sartorius. The quadriceps femoris is made of four longus, and the extensor indicis. muscles: the rectus femoris, the vastus lateralis, the vastus medius, and the vastus intermedius, which Finally, the intrinsic muscles of the hands allow our together extend the knee. The posterior compartment fingers to make precise movements, such as typing and of the thigh includes the hamstrings: the biceps writing. They both originate and insert within the hand. femoris, semitendinosus, and the semimembranosus, The thenar muscles, which are located on the lateral which all flex the knee. part of the palm, are the abductor pollicis brevis, opponens pollicis, flexor pollicis brevis, and adductor The muscles of the leg that move the foot and toes are pollicis. The hypothenar muscles, which are located on divided into anterior, lateral, superficial- and deep- the medial part of the palm, are the abductor digiti posterior compartments. The anterior compartment minimi, flexor digiti minimi brevis, and opponens digiti includes the tibialis anterior, the extensor hallucis minimi. The intermediate muscles, located in the longus, the extensor digitorum longus, and the fibularis middle of the palm, are the lumbricals, palmar (peroneus) tertius. The lateral compartment houses interossei, and dorsal interossei. the fibularis (peroneus) longus and the fibularis (peroneus) brevis. The superficial posterior 11.6Appendicular Muscles of the Pelvic compartment has the gastrocnemius, soleus, and Girdle and Lower Limbs plantaris; and the deep posterior compartment has the The pelvic girdle attaches the legs to the axial skeleton. popliteus, tibialis posterior, flexor digitorum longus, The hip joint is where the pelvic girdle and the leg and flexor hallucis longus. come together. The hip is joined to the pelvic girdle by Review Questions 1. Which of the following is unique to the muscles of 2. Which of the following helps an agonist work? facial expression? a. a synergist a. They all originate from the scalp musculature. b. a fixator b. They insert onto the cartilage found around the c. an insertion face. d. an antagonist c. They only insert onto the facial bones. d. They insert into the skin. 448 11 • Review Questions 3. Which of the following statements is correct about 10. Which muscle name doesnotmake sense? what happens during flexion? a. extensor digitorum a. The angle between bones is increased. b. gluteus minimus b. The angle between bones is decreased. c. biceps femoris c. The bone moves away from the body. d.
