Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


abdominal wall. How do they relate to each 29. Movements of the body occur at joints. Describe other? how muscles are arranged around the joints of the 36. What are some similarities and differences body. between the diaphragm and the pelvic 30. Explain how a synergist assists an agonist by being diaphragm? a fixator. 37. The tendons of which muscles form the rotator 31. Describe the different criteria that contribute to cuff? Why is the rotator cuff important? how skeletal muscles are named. 38. List the general muscle groups of the shoulders 32. Explain the difference between axial and and upper limbs as well as their subgroups. appendicular muscles. 39. Which muscles form the hamstrings? How do they 33. Describe the muscles of the anterior neck. function together? 34. Why are the muscles of the face different from 40. Which muscles form the quadriceps? How do they typical skeletal muscle? function together? 450 11 • Critical Thinking Questions Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 12 The Nervous System and Nervous Tissue Figure12.1 Robotic Arms Playing FoosballAs the neural circuitry of the nervous system has become more fully understood and robotics more sophisticated, it is now possible to integrate technology with the body and restore abilities following traumatic events. At some point in the future, will this type of technology lead to the ability to augment our nervous systems? (credit: U.S. Army/Wikimedia Commons) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Name the major divisions of the nervous system, both anatomical and functional • Describe the functional and structural differences between gray matter and white matter structures • Name the parts of the multipolar neuron in order of polarity • List the types of glial cells and assign each to the proper division of the nervous system, along with their function(s) • Distinguish the major functions of the nervous system: sensation, integration, and response • Describe the components of the membrane that establish the resting membrane potential • Describe the changes that occur to the membrane that result in the action potential • Explain the differences between types of graded potentials • Categorize the major neurotransmitters by chemical type and effect INTRODUCTION The nervous system is a very complex organ system. In Peter D. Kramer’s bookListening to Prozac, a pharmaceutical researcher is quoted as saying, “If the human brain were simple enough for us to understand, we
