Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


be differentiated using tools such as the microscope or electrophysiology. In comparison, it is easy to see that the stomach is different than the esophagus or the liver, so you can imagine the digestive system as a collection of specific organs. The Central and Peripheral Nervous Systems The nervous system can be divided into two major regions: the central and peripheral nervous systems. Thecentral nervous system (CNS)is the brain and spinal cord, and theperipheral nervous system (PNS)is everything else (Figure 12.2). The brain is contained within the cranial cavity of the skull, and the spinal cord is contained within the vertebral cavity of the vertebral column. It is a bit of an oversimplification to say that the CNS is what is inside these two cavities and the peripheral nervous system is outside of them, but that is one way to start to think about it. In actuality, there are some elements of the peripheral nervous system that are within the cranial or vertebral cavities. The peripheral nervous system is so named because it is on the periphery—meaning beyond the brain and spinal cord. Depending on different aspects of the nervous system, the dividing line between central and peripheral is not necessarily universal. FIGURE12.2 Central and Peripheral Nervous System The structures of the PNS are referred to as ganglia and nerves, which can be seen as distinct structures. The equivalent structures in the CNS are not obvious from this overall perspective and are best examined in prepared tissue under the microscope. Nervous tissue, present in both the CNS and PNS, contains two basic types of cells: neurons and glial cells. Aglial cellis one of a variety of cells that provide a framework of tissue that supports the neurons and their activities. The Access for free at openstax.org 12.1 • Basic Structure and Function of the Nervous System 453 neuronis the more functionally important of the two, in terms of the communicative function of the nervous system. To describe the functional divisions of the nervous system, it is important to understand the structure of a neuron. Neurons are cells and therefore have asoma, or cell body, but they also have extensions of the cell; each extension is generally referred to as aprocess. There is one important process that every neuron has called anaxon, which is the fiber that connects a neuron with its target. Another type of process that branches off from
