Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


information flows in this one direction.Figure 12.8shows the relationship of these parts to one another. FIGURE12.8 Parts of a Neuron The major parts of the neuron are labeled on a multipolar neuron from the CNS. Where the axon emerges from the cell body, there is a special region referred to as theaxon hillock. This is a tapering of the cell body toward the axon fiber. Within the axon hillock, the cytoplasm changes to a solution of limited components calledaxoplasm. Because the axon hillock represents the beginning of the axon, it is also referred to as theinitial segment. Many axons are wrapped by an insulating substance called myelin, which is actually made from glial cells. Myelin acts as insulation much like the plastic or rubber that is used to insulate electrical wires. A key difference between myelin and the insulation on a wire is that there are gaps in the myelin covering of an axon. Each gap is called anode of Ranvierand is important to the way that electrical signals travel down the axon. The length of the axon between each gap, which is wrapped in myelin, is referred to as anaxon segment. At the end of the axon is theaxon terminal, where there are usually several branches extending toward the target cell, each of which ends in an enlargement called asynaptic end bulb. These bulbs are what make the connection with the target cell at the synapse. Types of Neurons There are many neurons in the nervous system—a number in the trillions. And there are many different types of neurons. They can be classified by many different criteria. The first way to classify them is by the number of processes attached to the cell body. Using the standard model of neurons, one of these processes is the axon, and 460 12 • The Nervous System and Nervous Tissue the rest are dendrites. Because information flows through the neuron from dendrites or cell bodies toward the axon, these names are based on the neuron's polarity (Figure 12.9). FIGURE12.9 Neuron Classification by Shape Unipolar cells have one process that includes both the axon and dendrite. Bipolar cells have two processes, the axon and a dendrite. Multipolar cells have more than two processes, the axon and two or more dendrites. Unipolarcells have only one process emerging from the cell. True unipolar cells are only found in invertebrate animals, so the unipolar cells in
