Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


value representing the charge on the intracellular side of the membrane based on the outside being zero, relatively speaking (Figure 12.22). FIGURE12.22 Measuring Charge across a Membrane with a Voltmeter A recording electrode is inserted into the cell and a reference electrode is outside the cell. By comparing the charge measured by these two electrodes, the transmembrane voltage is determined. It is conventional to express that value for the cytosol relative to the outside. The concentration of ions in extracellular and intracellular fluids is largely balanced, with a net neutral charge. However, a slight difference in charge occurs right at the membrane surface, both internally and externally. It is the difference in this very limited region that has all the power in neurons (and muscle cells) to generate electrical signals, including action potentials. Before these electrical signals can be described, the resting state of the membrane must be explained. When the cell is at rest, and the ion channels are closed (except for leakage channels which randomly open), ions are distributed across the membrane in a very predictable way. The concentration of Na+outside the cell is 10 times greater than the concentration inside. Also, the concentration of K+inside the cell is greater than outside. The cytosol contains a high concentration of anions, in the form of phosphate ions and negatively charged proteins. 472 12 • The Nervous System and Nervous Tissue Large anions are a component of the inner cell membrane, including specialized phospholipids and proteins associated with the inner leaflet of the membrane (leaflet is a term used for one side of the lipid bilayer membrane). The negative charge is localized in the large anions. With the ions distributed across the membrane at these concentrations, the difference in charge is measured at -70 mV, the value described as theresting membrane potential. The exact value measured for the resting membrane potential varies between cells, but -70 mV is most commonly used as this value. This voltage would actually be much lower except for the contributions of some important proteins in the membrane. Leakage channels allow Na+ to slowly move into the cell or K+to slowly move out, and the Na+/K+pump restores them. This may appear to be a waste of energy, but each has a role in maintaining the membrane potential. The Action Potential Resting membrane potential describes the steady state of the cell, which is a dynamic process that
