Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


energy, but each has a role in maintaining the membrane potential. The Action Potential Resting membrane potential describes the steady state of the cell, which is a dynamic process that is balanced by ion leakage and ion pumping. Without any outside influence, it will not change. To get an electrical signal started, the membrane potential has to change. This starts with a channel opening for Na+in the membrane. Because the concentration of Na+is higher outside the cell than inside the cell by a factor of 10, ions will rush into the cell that are driven largely by the concentration gradient. Because sodium is a positively charged ion, it will change the relative voltage immediately inside the cell relative to immediately outside. The resting potential is the state of the membrane at a voltage of -70 mV, so the sodium cation entering the cell will cause it to become less negative. This is known asdepolarization, meaning the membrane potential moves toward zero. The concentration gradient for Na+is so strong that it will continue to enter the cell even after the membrane potential has become zero, so that the voltage immediately around the pore begins to become positive. The electrical gradient also plays a role, as negative proteins below the membrane attract the sodium ion. The membrane potential will reach +30 mV by the time sodium has entered the cell. As the membrane potential reaches +30 mV, other voltage-gated channels are opening in the membrane. These channels are specific for the potassium ion. A concentration gradient acts on K+, as well. As K+starts to leave the cell, taking a positive charge with it, the membrane potential begins to move back toward its resting voltage. This is calledrepolarization, meaning that the membrane voltage moves back toward the -70 mV value of the resting membrane potential. Repolarization returns the membrane potential to the -70 mV value that indicates the resting potential, but it actually overshoots that value. Potassium ions reach equilibrium when the membrane voltage is below -70 mV, so a period of hyperpolarization occurs while the K+channels are open. Those K+channels are slightly delayed in closing, accounting for this short overshoot. What has been described here is the action potential, which is presented as a graph of voltage over time inFigure 12.23. It is the electrical signal that nervous tissue generates for communication. The change in the membrane voltage from -70 mV at
