Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


to a large depolarization. At point B, a mix of excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials result in a different end result for the membrane potential. INTERACTIVE LINK Watch thisvideo( learn about summation. The process of converting electrical signals to chemical signals and back requires subtle changes that can result in transient increases or decreases in membrane voltage. To cause a lasting change in the target cell, multiple signals are usually added together, or summated. Does spatial summation have to happen all at once, or can the separate signals arrive on the postsynaptic neuron at slightly different times? Explain your answer. 478 12 • The Nervous System and Nervous Tissue Synapses There are two types of connections between electrically active cells, chemical synapses and electrical synapses. In achemical synapse, a chemical signal—namely, a neurotransmitter—is released from one cell and it affects the other cell. In anelectrical synapse, there is a direct connection between the two cells so that ions can pass directly from one cell to the next. If one cell is depolarized in an electrical synapse, the joined cell also depolarizes because the ions pass between the cells. Chemical synapses involve the transmission of chemical information from one cell to the next. This section will concentrate on the chemical type of synapse. An example of a chemical synapse is the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) described in the chapter on muscle tissue. In the nervous system, there are many more synapses that are essentially the same as the NMJ. All synapses have common characteristics, which can be summarized in this list: • presynaptic element • neurotransmitter (packaged in vesicles) • synaptic cleft • receptor proteins • postsynaptic element • neurotransmitter elimination or re-uptake For the NMJ, these characteristics are as follows: the presynaptic element is the motor neuron's axon terminals, the neurotransmitter is acetylcholine, the synaptic cleft is the space between the cells where the neurotransmitter diffuses, the receptor protein is the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, the postsynaptic element is the sarcolemma of the muscle cell, and the neurotransmitter is eliminated by acetylcholinesterase. Other synapses are similar to this, and the specifics are different, but they all contain the same characteristics. Neurotransmitter Release When an action potential reaches the axon terminals, voltage-gated Ca2+channels in the membrane of the synaptic end bulb open. The concentration of Ca2+increases inside the end bulb, and the Ca2+ion associates with proteins in the outer surface of neurotransmitter vesicles.
