Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


end of the axon, called the axon terminal, and a chemical signal is released to tell the target cell to do something—either to initiate a new action potential, or to suppress that activity. In a very short space, the electrical signal of the action potential is changed into the chemical signal of a neurotransmitter and then back to electrical changes in the target cell membrane. What is the importance of voltage-gated calcium channels in the release of neurotransmitters? 482 12 • The Nervous System and Nervous Tissue Characteristics of Neurotransmitter Systems System Cholinergic Amino acids Biogenic amines Neuropeptides Serotonin (5-HT), Met-enkephalin, Glutamate, dopamine, beta-endorphin, Neurotransmitters Acetylcholine glycine, GABA norepinephrine, VIP, Substance P, (epinephrine) etc. Receptors are 5-HT receptors, D1 and Glu receptors, gly too numerous to Nicotinic and D2 receptors, α- Receptors receptors, GABA list, but are muscarinic receptors adrenergic and β- receptors specific to the adrenergic receptors peptides. Degradation by Degradation by Reuptake by Elimination Reuptake by neurons enzymes called acetylcholinesterase neurons or glia peptidases Nicotinic receptor Depolarization or causes Glu receptors hyperpolarization depolarization. cause depends on the specific Depolarization or Muscarinic receptors Postsynaptic depolarization. receptor. For example, hyperpolarization can cause both effect Gly and GABA D1 receptors cause depends on the depolarization or receptors cause depolarization and D2 specific receptor. hyperpolarization hyperpolarization. receptors cause depending on the hyperpolarization. subtype. TABLE12.3 Disorders of the... Nervous System The underlying cause of some neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s, appears to be related to proteins—specifically, to proteins behaving badly. One of the strongest theories of what causes Alzheimer’s disease is based on the accumulation of beta-amyloid plaques, dense conglomerations of a protein that is not functioning correctly. Parkinson’s disease is linked to an increase in a protein known as alpha- synuclein that is toxic to the cells of the substantia nigra nucleus in the midbrain. For proteins to function correctly, they are dependent on their three-dimensional shape. The linear sequence of amino acids folds into a three-dimensional shape that is based on the interactions between and among those amino acids. When the folding is disturbed, and proteins take on a different shape, they stop functioning correctly. But the disease is not necessarily the result of functional loss of these proteins; rather, these altered proteins start to accumulate and may become toxic. For example, in Alzheimer’s, the hallmark of the disease is the accumulation of these amyloid plaques in the cerebral
