Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


divisions on 12.2Nervous Tissue the basis of anatomy and physiology. The anatomical Nervous tissue contains two major cell types, neurons divisions are the central and peripheral nervous and glial cells. Neurons are the cells responsible for systems. The CNS is the brain and spinal cord. The PNS communication through electrical signals. Glial cells is everything else. Functionally, the nervous system can are supporting cells, maintaining the environment be divided into those regions that are responsible for around the neurons. sensation, those that are responsible for integration, and those that are responsible for generating Neurons are polarized cells, based on the flow of responses. All of these functional areas are found in electrical signals along their membrane. Signals are both the central and peripheral anatomy. received at the dendrites, are passed along the cell body, and propagate along the axon towards the target, Considering the anatomical regions of the nervous which may be another neuron, muscle tissue, or a system, there are specific names for the structures gland. Many axons are insulated by a lipid-rich within each division. A localized collection of neuron substance called myelin. Specific types of glial cells cell bodies is referred to as a nucleus in the CNS and as provide this insulation. a ganglion in the PNS. A bundle of axons is referred to as a tract in the CNS and as a nerve in the PNS. Several types of glial cells are found in the nervous Whereas nuclei and ganglia are specifically in the system, and they can be categorized by the anatomical central or peripheral divisions, axons can cross the division in which they are found. In the CNS, boundary between the two. A single axon can be part astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, microglia, and of a nerve and a tract. The name for that specific ependymal cells are found. Astrocytes are important structure depends on its location. for maintaining the chemical environment around the neuron and are crucial for regulating the blood-brain Nervous tissue can also be described as gray matter barrier. Oligodendrocytes are the myelinating glia in the and white matter on the basis of its appearance in CNS. Microglia act as phagocytes and play a role in unstained tissue. These descriptions are more often immune surveillance. Ependymal cells are responsible used in the CNS. Gray matter is where nuclei are found for filtering the blood to produce cerebrospinal fluid, and white matter is
