Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


often immune surveillance. Ependymal cells are responsible used in the CNS. Gray matter is where nuclei are found for filtering the blood to produce cerebrospinal fluid, and white matter is where tracts are found. In the PNS, which is a circulatory fluid that performs some of the ganglia are basically gray matter and nerves are white functions of blood in the brain and spinal cord because matter. of the BBB. In the PNS, satellite cells are supporting The nervous system can also be divided on the basis of cells for the neurons, and Schwann cells insulate how it controls the body. The somatic nervous system peripheral axons. (SNS) is responsible for functions that result in moving 12.3The Function of Nervous Tissue skeletal muscles. Any sensory or integrative functions that result in the movement of skeletal muscle would Sensation starts with the activation of a sensory be considered somatic. The autonomic nervous system ending, such as the thermoreceptor in the skin sensing (ANS) is responsible for functions that affect cardiac or the temperature of the water. The sensory endings in smooth muscle tissue, or that cause glands to produce the skin initiate an electrical signal that travels along their secretions. Autonomic functions are distributed the sensory axon within a nerve into the spinal cord, between central and peripheral regions of the nervous where it synapses with a neuron in the gray matter of system. The sensations that lead to autonomic the spinal cord. The temperature information functions can be the same sensations that are part of represented in that electrical signal is passed to the initiating somatic responses. Somatic and autonomic next neuron by a chemical signal that diffuses across integrative functions may overlap as well. the small gap of the synapse and initiates a new electrical signal in the target cell. That signal travels A special division of the nervous system is the enteric through the sensory pathway to the brain, passing nervous system, which is responsible for controlling through the thalamus, where conscious perception of the digestive organs. Parts of the autonomic nervous the water temperature is made possible by the system overlap with the enteric nervous system. The cerebral cortex. Following integration of that enteric nervous system is exclusively found in the information with other cognitive processes and sensory Access for free at openstax.org 12 • Chapter Review 487 information, the brain sends a command back down to
