Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


exclusively found in the information with other cognitive processes and sensory Access for free at openstax.org 12 • Chapter Review 487 information, the brain sends a command back down to the axon also makes a difference as ions diffusing the spinal cord to initiate a motor response by within the cell have less resistance in a wider space. controlling a skeletal muscle. The motor pathway is 12.5Communication Between Neurons composed of two cells, the upper motor neuron and the lower motor neuron. The upper motor neuron has The basis of the electrical signal within a neuron is the its cell body in the cerebral cortex and synapses on a action potential that propagates down the axon. For a cell in the gray matter of the spinal cord. The lower neuron to generate an action potential, it needs to motor neuron is that cell in the gray matter of the receive input from another source, either another spinal cord and its axon extends into the periphery neuron or a sensory stimulus. That input will result in where it synapses with a skeletal muscle in a opening ion channels in the neuron, resulting in a neuromuscular junction. graded potential based on the strength of the stimulus. Graded potentials can be depolarizing or 12.4The Action Potential hyperpolarizing and can summate to affect the The nervous system is characterized by electrical probability of the neuron reaching threshold. signals that are sent from one area to another. Whether Graded potentials can be the result of sensory stimuli. those areas are close or very far apart, the signal must If the sensory stimulus is received by the dendrites of a travel along an axon. The basis of the electrical signal is unipolar sensory neuron, such as the sensory neuron the controlled distribution of ions across the ending in the skin, the graded potential is called a membrane. Transmembrane ion channels regulate generator potential because it can directly generate when ions can move in or out of the cell, so that a the action potential in the initial segment of the axon. If precise signal is generated. This signal is the action the sensory stimulus is received by a specialized potential which has a very characteristic shape based sensory receptor cell, the graded potential is called a on voltage changes across the membrane in a given receptor potential. Graded potentials produced by time period. interactions between neurons
