Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


based sensory receptor cell, the graded potential is called a on voltage changes across the membrane in a given receptor potential. Graded potentials produced by time period. interactions between neurons at synapses are called The membrane is normally at rest with established Na+ postsynaptic potentials (PSPs). A depolarizing graded and K+concentrations on either side. A stimulus will potential at a synapse is called an excitatory PSP, and a start the depolarization of the membrane, and voltage- hyperpolarizing graded potential at a synapse is called gated channels will result in further depolarization an inhibitory PSP. followed by repolarization of the membrane. A slight Synapses are the contacts between neurons, which overshoot of hyperpolarization marks the end of the can either be chemical or electrical in nature. Chemical action potential. While an action potential is in synapses are far more common. At a chemical synapse, progress, another cannot be generated under the same neurotransmitter is released from the presynaptic conditions. While the voltage-gated Na+channel is element and diffuses across the synaptic cleft. The inactivated, absolutely no action potentials can be neurotransmitter binds to a receptor protein and generated. Once that channel has returned to its causes a change in the postsynaptic membrane (the resting state, a new action potential is possible, but it PSP). The neurotransmitter must be inactivated or must be started by a relatively stronger stimulus to removed from the synaptic cleft so that the stimulus is overcome the K+leaving the cell. limited in time. The action potential travels down the axon as voltage- The particular characteristics of a synapse vary based gated ion channels are opened by the spreading on the neurotransmitter system produced by that depolarization. In unmyelinated axons, this happens in neuron. The cholinergic system is found at the a continuous fashion because there are voltage-gated neuromuscular junction and in certain places within channels throughout the membrane. In myelinated the nervous system. Amino acids, such as glutamate, axons, propagation is described as saltatory because glycine, and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) are voltage-gated channels are only found at the nodes of used as neurotransmitters. Other neurotransmitters Ranvier and the electrical events seem to “jump” from are the result of amino acids being enzymatically one node to the next. Saltatory conduction is faster changed, as in the biogenic amines, or being covalently than continuous conduction, meaning that myelinated bonded together, as in the neuropeptides. axons propagate their signals faster. The
