Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


conduction is faster changed, as in the biogenic amines, or being covalently than continuous conduction, meaning that myelinated bonded together, as in the neuropeptides. axons propagate their signals faster. The diameter of 488 12 • Interactive Link Questions Interactive Link Questions 1. In 2003, the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 5. What happens across the membrane of an was awarded to Paul C. Lauterbur and Sir Peter electrically active cell is a dynamic process that is Mansfield for discoveries related to magnetic hard to visualize with static images or through text resonance imaging (MRI). This is a tool to see the descriptions. View thisanimation structures of the body (not just the nervous system) ( really that depends on magnetic fields associated with understand the process. What is the difference certain atomic nuclei. The utility of this technique in between the driving force for Na+and K+? And what the nervous system is that fat tissue and water is similar about the movement of these two ions? appear as different shades between black and 6. Visit thissite( see white. Because white matter is fatty (from myelin) a virtual neurophysiology lab, and to observe and gray matter is not, they can be easily electrophysiological processes in the nervous distinguished in MRI images. Visit the Nobel Prize system, where scientists directly measure the website( play an electrical signals produced by neurons. Often, the interactive game that demonstrates the use of this action potentials occur so rapidly that watching a technology and compares it with other types of screen to see them occur is not helpful. A speaker imaging technologies. Also, the results from an MRI is powered by the signals recorded from a neuron session are compared with images obtained from x- and it “pops” each time the neuron fires an action ray or computed tomography. How do the imaging potential. These action potentials are firing so fast techniques shown in this game indicate the that it sounds like static on the radio. separation of white and gray matter compared with Electrophysiologists can recognize the patterns the freshly dissected tissue shown earlier? within that static to understand what is happening. 2. Visit thissite( Why is the leech model used for measuring the to read about a woman that notices that her electrical activity of neurons instead of using daughter is having trouble walking up the stairs. humans? This leads to the discovery of
