Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


read about a woman that notices that her electrical activity of neurons instead of using daughter is having trouble walking up the stairs. humans? This leads to the discovery of a hereditary condition 7. Watch thisvideo( that affects the brain and spinal cord. The to learn about summation. The process of electromyography and MRI tests indicated converting electrical signals to chemical signals and deficiencies in the spinal cord and cerebellum, both back requires subtle changes that can result in of which are responsible for controlling coordinated transient increases or decreases in membrane movements. To what functional division of the voltage. To cause a lasting change in the target cell, nervous system would these structures belong? multiple signals are usually added together, or 3. The neurons are dynamic cells with the ability to summated. Does spatial summation have to happen make a vast number of connections and to respond all at once, or can the separate signals arrive on the incredibly quickly to stimuli and to initiate postsynaptic neuron at slightly different times? movements based on those stimuli. They are the Explain your answer. focus of intense research as failures in physiology 8. Watch thisvideo( can lead to devastating illnesses. Why are neurons to learn about the release of a neurotransmitter. only found in animals? Why wouldn’t they be The action potential reaches the end of the axon, helpful for plants or microorganisms? called the axon terminal, and a chemical signal is 4. View the University of MichiganWebscope released to tell the target cell to do something, ( see an electron either initiate a new action potential, or to suppress micrograph of a cross-section of a myelinated nerve that activity. In a very short space, the electrical fiber. The axon contains microtubules and signal of the action potential is changed into the neurofilaments, bounded by a plasma membrane chemical signal of a neurotransmitter, and then known as the axolemma. Outside the plasma back to electrical changes in the target cell membrane of the axon is the myelin sheath, which membrane. What is the importance of voltage- is composed of the tightly wrapped plasma gated calcium channels in the release of membrane of a Schwann cell. What aspects of the neurotransmitters? cells in this image react with the stain that makes them the deep, dark, black color, such as the multiple layers that are the myelin sheath? Access for free at openstax.org
