Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


relaying information directly from one example of each type of tissue that is under neuron to another? Explain why. nervous system control. 38. Sensory fibers, or pathways, are referred to as 35. When eating food, what anatomical and functional “afferent.” Motor fibers, or pathways, are referred divisions of the nervous system are involved in the to as “efferent.” What can you infer about the perceptual experience? meaning of these two terms (afferent and 36. Multiple sclerosis is a demyelinating disease efferent) in a structural or anatomical context? affecting the central nervous system. What type of 39. If a person has a motor disorder and cannot move cell would be the most likely target of this their arm voluntarily, but their muscles have tone, disease? Why? which motor neuron—upper or lower—is probably affected? Explain why. Access for free at openstax.org 12 • Critical Thinking Questions 491 40. What does it mean for an action potential to be an 42. If a postsynaptic cell has synapses from five “all or none” event? different cells, and three cause EPSPs and two of 41. The conscious perception of pain is often delayed them cause IPSPs, give an example of a series of because of the time it takes for the sensations to depolarizations and hyperpolarizations that would reach the cerebral cortex. Why would this be the result in the neuron reaching threshold. case based on propagation of the axon potential? 43. Why is the receptor the important element determining the effect a neurotransmitter has on a target cell? 492 12 • Critical Thinking Questions Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 13 Anatomy of the Nervous System Figure13.1 Human Nervous SystemThe ability to balance like an acrobat combines functions throughout the nervous system. The central and peripheral divisions coordinate control of the body using the senses of balance, body position, and touch on the soles of the feet. (credit: Rhett Sutphin) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Relate the developmental processes of the embryonic nervous system to the adult structures • Name the major regions of the adult nervous system • Locate regions of the cerebral cortex on the basis of anatomical landmarks common to all human brains • Describe the regions of the spinal cord in cross-section • List the cranial nerves in order of anatomical location and provide the central and peripheral connections • List the spinal
