Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Describe the regions of the spinal cord in cross-section • List the cranial nerves in order of anatomical location and provide the central and peripheral connections • List the spinal nerves by vertebral region and by which nerve plexus each supplies INTRODUCTION The nervous system is responsible for controlling much of the body, both through somatic (voluntary) and autonomic (involuntary) functions. The structures of the nervous system must be described in detail to understand how many of these functions are possible. There is a physiological concept known as localization of function that states that certain structures are specifically responsible for prescribed functions. It is an underlying concept in all of anatomy and physiology, but the nervous system illustrates the concept very well. Fresh, unstained nervous tissue can be described as gray or white matter, and within those two types of tissue it can be very hard to see any detail. However, as specific regions and structures have been described, they were related to specific functions. Understanding these structures and the functions they perform requires a detailed description of the anatomy of the nervous system, delving deep into what the central and peripheral structures are. The place to start this study of the nervous system is the beginning of the individual human life, within the womb. The embryonic development of the nervous system allows for a simple framework on which progressively more complicated structures can be built. With this framework in place, a thorough investigation of the nervous system is possible. 494 13 • Anatomy of the Nervous System 13.1 The Embryologic Perspective LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the growth and differentiation of the neural tube • Relate the different stages of development to the adult structures of the central nervous system • Explain the expansion of the ventricular system of the adult brain from the central canal of the neural tube • Describe the connections of the diencephalon and cerebellum on the basis of patterns of embryonic development The brain is a complex organ composed of gray parts and white matter, which can be hard to distinguish. Starting from an embryologic perspective allows you to understand more easily how the parts relate to each other. The embryonic nervous system begins as a very simple structure—essentially just a straight line, which then gets increasingly complex. Looking at the development of the
