Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


parts relate to each other. The embryonic nervous system begins as a very simple structure—essentially just a straight line, which then gets increasingly complex. Looking at the development of the nervous system with a couple of early snapshots makes it easier to understand the whole complex system. Many structures that appear to be adjacent in the adult brain are not connected, and the connections that exist may seem arbitrary. But there is an underlying order to the system that comes from how different parts develop. By following the developmental pattern, it is possible to learn what the major regions of the nervous system are. The Neural Tube To begin, a sperm cell and an egg cell fuse to become a fertilized egg. The fertilized egg cell, or zygote, starts dividing to generate the cells that make up an entire organism. Sixteen days after fertilization, the developing embryo’s cells belong to one of three germ layers that give rise to the different tissues in the body. The endoderm, or inner tissue, is responsible for generating the lining tissues of various spaces within the body, such as the mucosae of the digestive and respiratory systems. The mesoderm, or middle tissue, gives rise to most of the muscle and connective tissues. Finally the ectoderm, or outer tissue, develops into the integumentary system (the skin) and the nervous system. It is probably not difficult to see that the outer tissue of the embryo becomes the outer covering of the body. But how is it responsible for the nervous system? As the embryo develops, a portion of the ectoderm differentiates into a specialized region of neuroectoderm, which is the precursor for the tissue of the nervous system. Molecular signals induce cells in this region to differentiate into the neuroepithelium, forming aneural plate. The cells then begin to change shape, causing the tissue to buckle and fold inward (Figure 13.2). Aneural grooveforms, visible as a line along the dorsal surface of the embryo. The ridge- like edge on either side of the neural groove is referred as theneural fold. As the neural folds come together and converge, the underlying structure forms into a tube just beneath the ectoderm called theneural tube. Cells from the neural folds then separate from the ectoderm to form a cluster of cells referred to as theneural crest, which runs lateral to the neural tube. The neural crest migrates away from the
