Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


embryonic development is that certain connections are more obvious because of how these adult structures are related. The retina, which began as part of the diencephalon, is primarily connected to the diencephalon. The eyes are just inferior to the anterior-most part of the cerebrum, but the optic nerve extends back to the thalamus as the optic tract, with branches into a region of the hypothalamus. There is also a connection of the optic tract to the midbrain, but the mesencephalon is adjacent to the diencephalon, so that is not difficult to imagine. The cerebellum originates out of the metencephalon, and its largest white matter connection is to the pons, also from the metencephalon. There are connections between the cerebellum and both the medulla and midbrain, which are adjacent structures in the secondary vesicle stage of development. In the adult brain, the cerebellum seems close to the cerebrum, but there is no direct connection between them. Another aspect of the adult CNS structures that relates to embryonic development is the ventricles—open spaces within the CNS where cerebrospinal fluid circulates. They are the remnant of the hollow center of the neural tube. The four ventricles and the tubular spaces associated with them can be linked back to the hollow center of the embryonic brain (seeTable 13.1). 498 13 • Anatomy of the Nervous System Stages of Embryonic Development Primary vesicle Secondary vesicle Adult Neural tube Ventricles stage stage structures Anterior neural tube Prosencephalon Telencephalon Cerebrum Lateral ventricles Anterior neural tube Prosencephalon Diencephalon Diencephalon Third ventricle Cerebral Anterior neural tube Mesencephalon Mesencephalon Midbrain aqueduct Pons Anterior neural tube Rhombencephalon Metencephalon Fourth ventricle cerebellum Anterior neural tube Rhombencephalon Myelencephalon Medulla Fourth ventricle Posterior neural Spinal cord Central canal tube TABLE13.1 Disorders of the... Nervous System Early formation of the nervous system depends on the formation of the neural tube. A groove forms along the dorsal surface of the embryo, which becomes deeper until its edges meet and close off to form the tube. If this fails to happen, especially in the posterior region where the spinal cord forms, a developmental defect called spina bifida occurs. The closing of the neural tube is important for more than just the proper formation of the nervous system. The surrounding tissues are dependent on the correct development of the tube. The connective tissues surrounding the CNS can be involved as well. There are three classes of this disorder:
