Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


gray matter to white matter changes. The caption for the video describes it as “less gray matter,” which is another way of saying “more white matter.” If the brain does not finish developing until approximately 20 years of age, can teenagers be held responsible for behaving badly? 13.2 The Central Nervous System LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Name the major regions of the adult brain • Describe the connections between the cerebrum and brain stem through the diencephalon, and from those regions into the spinal cord • Recognize the complex connections within the subcortical structures of the basal nuclei • Explain the arrangement of gray and white matter in the spinal cord The brain and the spinal cord are the central nervous system, and they represent the main organs of the nervous system. The spinal cord is a single structure, whereas the adult brain is described in terms of four major regions: the cerebrum, the diencephalon, the brain stem, and the cerebellum. A person’s conscious experiences are based on neural activity in the brain. The regulation of homeostasis is governed by a specialized region in the brain. The coordination of reflexes depends on the integration of sensory and motor pathways in the spinal cord. 500 13 • Anatomy of the Nervous System The Cerebrum The iconic gray mantle of the human brain, which appears to make up most of the mass of the brain, is the cerebrum(Figure 13.6). The wrinkled portion is thecerebral cortex, and the rest of the structure is beneath that outer covering. There is a large separation between the two sides of the cerebrum called thelongitudinal fissure. It separates the cerebrum into two distinct halves, a right and leftcerebral hemisphere. Deep within the cerebrum, the white matter of thecorpus callosumprovides the major pathway for communication between the two hemispheres of the cerebral cortex. FIGURE13.6 The Cerebrum The cerebrum is a large component of the CNS in humans, and the most obvious aspect of it is the folded surface called the cerebral cortex. Many of the higher neurological functions, such as memory, emotion, and consciousness, are the result of cerebral function. The complexity of the cerebrum is different across vertebrate species. The cerebrum of the most primitive vertebrates is not much more than the connection for the sense of smell. In mammals, the cerebrum comprises the outer gray matter
