Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


vertebrate species. The cerebrum of the most primitive vertebrates is not much more than the connection for the sense of smell. In mammals, the cerebrum comprises the outer gray matter that is the cortex (from the Latin word meaning “bark of a tree”) and several deep nuclei that belong to three important functional groups. Thebasal nucleiare responsible for cognitive processing, the most important function being that associated with planning movements. Thebasal forebraincontains nuclei that are important in learning and memory. Thelimbic cortexis the region of the cerebral cortex that is part of thelimbic system, a collection of structures involved in emotion, memory, and behavior. Cerebral Cortex The cerebrum is covered by a continuous layer of gray matter that wraps around either side of the forebrain—the cerebral cortex. This thin, extensive region of wrinkled gray matter is responsible for the higher functions of the nervous system. Agyrus(plural = gyri) is the ridge of one of those wrinkles, and asulcus(plural = sulci) is the groove between two gyri. The pattern of these folds of tissue indicates specific regions of the cerebral cortex. The head is limited by the size of the birth canal, and the brain must fit inside the cranial cavity of the skull. Extensive folding in the cerebral cortex enables more gray matter to fit into this limited space. If the gray matter of the cortex were peeled off of the cerebrum and laid out flat, its surface area would be roughly equal to one square meter. The folding of the cortex maximizes the amount of gray matter in the cranial cavity. During embryonic development, as the telencephalon expands within the skull, the brain goes through a regular course of growth that results in everyone’s brain having a similar pattern of folds. The surface of the brain can be mapped on the basis of the locations of large gyri and sulci. Using these landmarks, the cortex can be separated into four major regions, or lobes (Figure 13.7). Thelateral sulcusthat separates thetemporal lobefrom the other regions is one such landmark. Superior to the lateral sulcus are theparietal lobeandfrontal lobe, which are separated from each other by the central sulcus. The posterior region of the cortex is theoccipital lobe, which has no obvious anatomical border between it and the parietal or temporal lobes on the lateral surface of the brain. From the medial surface, an Access for free at openstax.org 13.2 •
