Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


central sulcus is thepostcentral gyrus, the primary somatosensory cortex, which is identified as Brodmann’s areas 1, 2, and 3. All of the tactile senses are processed in this area, including touch, pressure, tickle, pain, itch, and vibration, as well as more general senses of the body such as proprioceptionandkinesthesia, which are the senses of body position and movement, respectively. Anterior to the central sulcus is the frontal lobe, which is primarily associated with motor functions. Theprecentral gyrusis the primary motor cortex. Cells from this region of the cerebral cortex are the upper motor neurons that instruct cells in the spinal cord to move skeletal muscles. Anterior to this region are a few areas that are associated with planned movements. Thepremotor areais responsible for thinking of a movement to be made. Thefrontal eye fieldsare important in eliciting eye movements and in attending to visual stimuli.Broca’s areais responsible for the production of language, or controlling movements responsible for speech; in the vast majority of people, it is located only on the left side. Anterior to these regions is theprefrontal lobe, which serves cognitive functions that can be 502 13 • Anatomy of the Nervous System the basis of personality, short-term memory, and consciousness. The prefrontal lobotomy is an outdated mode of treatment for personality disorders (psychiatric conditions) that profoundly affected the personality of the patient. FIGURE13.8 Brodmann's Areas of the Cerebral Cortex Brodmann mapping of functionally distinct regions of the cortex was based on its cytoarchitecture at a microscopic level. Subcortical structures Beneath the cerebral cortex are sets of nuclei known assubcortical nucleithat augment cortical processes. The nuclei of the basal forebrain serve as the primary location for acetylcholine production, which modulates the overall activity of the cortex, possibly leading to greater attention to sensory stimuli. Alzheimer’s disease is associated with a loss of neurons in the basal forebrain. Thehippocampusandamygdalaare medial-lobe structures that, along with the adjacent cortex, are involved in long-term memory formation and emotional responses. The basal nuclei are a set of nuclei in the cerebrum responsible for comparing cortical processing with the general state of activity in the nervous system to influence the likelihood of movement taking place. For example, while a student is sitting in a classroom listening to a lecture, the basal nuclei will keep the urge to jump up and scream from actually happening. (The basal nuclei are also referred to as the basal ganglia, although
