Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


cell body that maintains that long fiber must be quite large, possibly several hundred micrometers in diameter, making it one of the largest cells in the body. 510 13 • Anatomy of the Nervous System FIGURE13.14 Cross-section of Spinal Cord The cross-section of a thoracic spinal cord segment shows the posterior, anterior, and lateral horns of gray matter, as well as the posterior, anterior, and lateral columns of white matter. LM × 40. (Micrograph provided by the Regents of University of Michigan Medical School © 2012) White Columns Just as the gray matter is separated into horns, the white matter of the spinal cord is separated into columns. Ascending tractsof nervous system fibers in these columns carry sensory information up to the brain, whereas descending tractscarry motor commands from the brain. Looking at the spinal cord longitudinally, the columns extend along its length as continuous bands of white matter. Between the two posterior horns of gray matter are the posterior columns. Between the two anterior horns, and bounded by the axons of motor neurons emerging from that gray matter area, are theanterior columns. The white matter on either side of the spinal cord, between the posterior horn and the axons of the anterior horn neurons, are thelateral columns. The posterior columns are composed of axons of ascending tracts. The anterior and lateral columns are composed of many different groups of axons of both ascending and descending tracts—the latter carrying motor commands down from the brain to the spinal cord to control output to the periphery. INTERACTIVE LINK Watch thisvideo( learn about the gray matter of the spinal cord that receives input from fibers of the dorsal (posterior) root and sends information out through the fibers of the ventral (anterior) root. As discussed in this video, these connections represent the interactions of the CNS with peripheral structures for both sensory and motor functions. The cervical and lumbar spinal cords have enlargements as a result of larger populations of neurons. What are these enlargements responsible for? Disorders of the... Basal Nuclei Parkinson’s disease is a disorder of the basal nuclei, specifically of the substantia nigra, that demonstrates the Access for free at openstax.org 13.3 • Circulation and the Central Nervous System 511 effects of the direct and indirect pathways. Parkinson’s disease is the result of neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta dying. These neurons release dopamine into the striatum. Without that
