Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Heart rate increases—a reflex of the sympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system—and this raises blood pressure. The internal carotid artery enters the cranium through thecarotid canalin the temporal bone. A second set of vessels that supply the CNS are thevertebral arteries, which are protected as they pass through the neck region by the transverse foramina of the cervical vertebrae. The vertebral arteries enter the cranium through theforamen magnumof the occipital bone. Branches off the left and right vertebral arteries merge into theanterior spinal arterysupplying the anterior aspect of the spinal cord, found along the anterior median fissure. The two vertebral arteries then merge into thebasilar artery, which gives rise to branches to the brain stem and cerebellum. The left and right internal carotid arteries and branches of the basilar artery all become thecircle of Willis, a confluence of arteries that can maintain perfusion of the brain even if narrowing or a blockage limits flow through one part (Figure 13.15). FIGURE13.15 Circle of Willis The blood supply to the brain enters through the internal carotid arteries and the vertebral arteries, eventually giving rise to the circle of Willis. Access for free at openstax.org 13.3 • Circulation and the Central Nervous System 513 INTERACTIVE LINK Watch thisanimation( see how blood flows to the brain and passes through the circle of Willis before being distributed through the cerebrum. The circle of Willis is a specialized arrangement of arteries that ensure constant perfusion of the cerebrum even in the event of a blockage of one of the arteries in the circle. The animation shows the normal direction of flow through the circle of Willis to the middle cerebral artery. Where would the blood come from if there were a blockage just posterior to the middle cerebral artery on the left? Venous Return After passing through the CNS, blood returns to the circulation through a series ofdural sinusesand veins (Figure 13.16). Thesuperior sagittal sinusruns in the groove of the longitudinal fissure, where it absorbs CSF from the meninges. The superior sagittal sinus drains to the confluence of sinuses, along with theoccipital sinusesand straight sinus, to then drain into thetransverse sinuses. The transverse sinuses connect to thesigmoid sinuses, which then connect to thejugular veins. From there, the blood continues toward the heart to be pumped to the lungs for reoxygenation. FIGURE13.16 Dural Sinuses and Veins Blood drains from the brain through a series of sinuses
