Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


there, the blood continues toward the heart to be pumped to the lungs for reoxygenation. FIGURE13.16 Dural Sinuses and Veins Blood drains from the brain through a series of sinuses that connect to the jugular veins. Protective Coverings of the Brain and Spinal Cord The outer surface of the CNS is covered by a series of membranes composed of connective tissue called the meninges, which protect the brain. Thedura materis a thick fibrous layer and a strong protective sheath over the entire brain and spinal cord. It is anchored to the inner surface of the cranium and vertebral cavity. Thearachnoid materis a membrane of thin fibrous tissue that forms a loose sac around the CNS. Beneath the arachnoid is a thin, filamentous mesh called thearachnoid trabeculae, which looks like a spider web, giving this layer its name. Directly adjacent to the surface of the CNS is thepia mater, a thin fibrous membrane that follows the convolutions of gyri and sulci in the cerebral cortex and fits into other grooves and indentations (Figure 13.17). 514 13 • Anatomy of the Nervous System FIGURE13.17 Meningeal Layers of Superior Sagittal Sinus The layers of the meninges in the longitudinal fissure of the superior sagittal sinus are shown, with the dura mater adjacent to the inner surface of the cranium, the pia mater adjacent to the surface of the brain, and the arachnoid and subarachnoid space between them. An arachnoid villus is shown emerging into the dural sinus to allow CSF to filter back into the blood for drainage. Dura Mater Like a thick cap covering the brain, the dura mater is a tough outer covering. The name comes from the Latin for “tough mother” to represent its physically protective role. It encloses the entire CNS and the major blood vessels that enter the cranium and vertebral cavity. It is directly attached to the inner surface of the bones of the cranium and to the very end of the vertebral cavity. There are infoldings of the dura that fit into large crevasses of the brain. Two infoldings go through the midline separations of the cerebrum and cerebellum; one forms a shelf-like tent between the occipital lobes of the cerebrum and the cerebellum, and the other surrounds the pituitary gland. The dura also surrounds and supports the venous sinuses. Arachnoid Mater The middle layer of the meninges is the arachnoid, named for the spider-web–like trabeculae
