Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


seen in this photomicrograph. Also, the fibrous region is composed of the axons of these neurons that are passing through the ganglion to be part of the dorsal nerve root (tissue source: canine). LM × 40. (Micrograph provided by the Regents of University of Michigan Medical School © 2012) FIGURE13.20 Spinal Cord and Root Ganglion The slide includes both a cross-section of the lumbar spinal cord and a section of the dorsal root ganglion (see alsoFigure 13.19) (tissue source: canine). LM × 1600. (Micrograph provided by the Regents of University of Michigan Medical School © 2012) INTERACTIVE LINK View theUniversity of Michigan WebScope( explore the tissue sample in greater detail. If you zoom in on the dorsal root ganglion, you can see smaller satellite glial cells surrounding the large cell bodies of the sensory neurons. From what structure do satellite cells derive during embryologic development? Another type of sensory ganglion is acranial nerve ganglion. This is analogous to the dorsal root ganglion, except that it is associated with acranial nerveinstead of aspinal nerve. The roots of cranial nerves are within the cranium, whereas the ganglia are outside the skull. For example, thetrigeminal ganglionis superficial to the temporal bone whereas its associated nerve is attached to the mid-pons region of the brain stem. The neurons of 520 13 • Anatomy of the Nervous System cranial nerve ganglia are also unipolar in shape with associated satellite cells. The other major category of ganglia are those of the autonomic nervous system, which is divided into the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems. Thesympathetic chain gangliaconstitute a row of ganglia along the vertebral column that receive central input from the lateral horn of the thoracic and upper lumbar spinal cord. Superior to the chain ganglia are threeparavertebral gangliain the cervical region. Three other autonomic ganglia that are related to the sympathetic chain are theprevertebral ganglia, which are located outside of the chain but have similar functions. They are referred to as prevertebral because they are anterior to the vertebral column. The neurons of these autonomic ganglia are multipolar in shape, with dendrites radiating out around the cell body where synapses from the spinal cord neurons are made. The neurons of the chain, paravertebral, and prevertebral ganglia then project to organs in the head and neck, thoracic, abdominal, and pelvic cavities to regulate the sympathetic aspect of homeostatic mechanisms. Another group of autonomic ganglia are theterminal
