Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


letter of each word corresponds to the initial letter in the name of each nerve. The names of the nerves have changed over the years to reflect current usage and more accurate naming. An exercise to help learn this sort of information is to generate a mnemonic using words that have personal significance. The names of the cranial nerves are listed inTable 13.3along with a brief description of their function, their source (sensory ganglion or motor nucleus), and their target (sensory nucleus or skeletal muscle). They are listed here with a brief explanation of each nerve (Figure 13.23). Theolfactory nerveandoptic nerveare responsible for the sense of smell and vision, respectively. Theoculomotor nerveis responsible for eye movements by controlling four of theextraocular muscles. It is also responsible for lifting the upper eyelid when the eyes point up, and for pupillary constriction. Thetrochlear nerveand the abducens nerveare both responsible for eye movement, but do so by controlling different extraocular muscles. The trigeminal nerveis responsible for cutaneous sensations of the face and controlling the muscles of mastication. Thefacial nerveis responsible for the muscles involved in facial expressions, as well as part of the sense of taste and the production of saliva. Thevestibulocochlear nerveis responsible for the senses of hearing and balance. The glossopharyngeal nerveis responsible for controlling muscles in the oral cavity and upper throat, as well as part of the sense of taste and the production of saliva. Thevagus nerveis responsible for contributing to homeostatic control of the organs of the thoracic and upper abdominal cavities. Thespinal accessory nerveis responsible for controlling the muscles of the neck, along with cervical spinal nerves. Thehypoglossal nerveis responsible for controlling the muscles of the lower throat and tongue. Access for free at openstax.org 13.4 • The Peripheral Nervous System 523 FIGURE13.23 The Cranial Nerves The anatomical arrangement of the roots of the cranial nerves observed from an inferior view of the brain. Three of the cranial nerves also contain autonomic fibers, and a fourth is almost purely a component of the autonomic system. The oculomotor, facial, and glossopharyngeal nerves contain fibers that contact autonomic ganglia. The oculomotor fibers initiate pupillary constriction, whereas the facial and glossopharyngeal fibers both initiate salivation. The vagus nerve primarily targets autonomic ganglia in the thoracic and upper abdominal cavities. INTERACTIVE LINK Visit thissite( read about a man who wakes with a headache and a loss of vision. His regular doctor
