Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


bulb Olfactory epithelium Hypothalamus/ Old II Optic Vision (S) Retina (retinal ganglion cells) thalamus/midbrain Extraocular muscles (other Eye Oculomotor 4), levator palpebrae Olympus’ III Oculomotor movements nucleus superioris, ciliary ganglion (M) (autonomic) Eye Towering IV Trochlear movements Trochlear nucleus Superior oblique muscle (M) Sensory/ Trigeminal nuclei in Tops V Trigeminal motor – the midbrain, pons, Trigeminal face (B) and medulla Eye A VI Abducens movements Abducens nucleus Lateral rectus muscle (M) Facial nucleus, Motor – Facial muscles, Geniculate solitary nucleus, Finn VII Facial face, Taste ganglion, Pterygopalatine superior salivatory (B) ganglion (autonomic) nucleus Cochlear nucleus, Auditory Hearing/ Spiral ganglion (hearing), And VIII Vestibular nucleus/ (Vestibulocochlear) balance (S) Vestibular ganglion (balance) cerebellum Solitary nucleus, Motor – Pharyngeal muscles, inferior salivatory German IX Glossopharyngeal throat Taste Geniculate ganglion, Otic nucleus, nucleus (B) ganglion (autonomic) ambiguus Motor/ Terminal ganglia serving sensory – thoracic and upper abdominal Viewed X Vagus viscera Medulla organs (heart and small (autonomic) intestines) (B) TABLE13.3 Access for free at openstax.org 13.4 • The Peripheral Nervous System 525 Function Central connection Peripheral connection Mnemonic # Name (S/M/B) (nuclei) (ganglion or muscle) Motor – Spinal accessory Some XI Spinal Accessory head and Neck muscles nucleus neck (M) Motor – Hypoglossal Muscles of the larynx and Hops XII Hypoglossal lower throat nucleus lower pharynx (M) TABLE13.3 Spinal Nerves The nerves connected to the spinal cord are the spinal nerves. The arrangement of these nerves is much more regular than that of the cranial nerves. All of the spinal nerves are combined sensory and motor axons that separate into two nerve roots. The sensory axons enter the spinal cord as the dorsal nerve root. The motor fibers, both somatic and autonomic, emerge as the ventral nerve root. The dorsal root ganglion for each nerve is an enlargement of the spinal nerve. There are 31 spinal nerves, named for the level of the spinal cord at which each one emerges. There are eight pairs of cervical nerves designated C1 to C8, twelve thoracic nerves designated T1 to T12, five pairs of lumbar nerves designated L1 to L5, five pairs of sacral nerves designated S1 to S5, and one pair of coccygeal nerves. The nerves are numbered from the superior to inferior positions, and each emerges from the vertebral column through the intervertebral foramen at its level. The first nerve, C1, emerges between the first cervical vertebra and the occipital bone. The second nerve, C2,
