Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


of approximately one to four months, and new ones are made on a regular basis. The new neurons extend their axons into the CNS by growing along the existing fibers of the olfactory nerve. The ability of these neurons to be replaced is lost with age. Age-related anosmia is not the result of impact trauma to the head, but rather a slow loss of the sensory neurons with no new neurons born to replace them. Smell is an important sense, especially for the enjoyment of food. There are only five tastes sensed by the tongue, and two of them are generally thought of as unpleasant tastes (sour and bitter). The rich sensory experience of food is the result of odor molecules associated with the food, both as food is moved into the mouth, and therefore passes under the nose, and when it is chewed and molecules are released to move up the pharynx into the posterior nasal cavity. Anosmia results in a loss of the enjoyment of food. As the replacement of olfactory neurons declines with age, anosmia can set in. Without the sense of smell, many sufferers complain of food tasting bland. Often, the only way to enjoy food is to add seasoning that can be sensed on the tongue, which usually means adding table salt. The problem with this solution, however, is that this increases sodium intake, which can lead to cardiovascular problems through water retention and the associated increase in blood pressure. 528 13 • Key Terms Key Terms abducens nerve sixth cranial nerve; responsible for vertebral arteries that runs along the dorsal surface contraction of one of the extraocular muscles of the brain stem alar plate developmental region of the spinal cord brachial plexus nerve plexus associated with the that gives rise to the posterior horn of the gray lower cervical spinal nerves and first thoracic spinal matter nerve amygdala nucleus deep in the temporal lobe of the brain stem region of the adult brain that includes the cerebrum that is related to memory and emotional midbrain, pons, and medulla oblongata and behavior develops from the mesencephalon, metencephalon, anterior column white matter between the anterior and myelencephalon of the embryonic brain horns of the spinal cord composed of many different Broca’s area region of the frontal lobe associated groups of axons of both ascending and descending with the motor commands necessary for speech tracts production and
