Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


regions of the adult brain. becomes the neural tube beneath the dorsal surface of Later in development, two of these three vesicles the embryo. The anterior end of the neural tube differentiate further, resulting in five vesicles. Those develops into the brain, and the posterior region five vesicles can be aligned with the four major regions becomes the spinal cord. Tissues at the edges of the of the adult brain. The cerebrum is formed directly neural groove, when it closes off, are called the neural from the telencephalon. The diencephalon is the only crest and migrate through the embryo to give rise to region that keeps its embryonic name. The Access for free at openstax.org 13 • Chapter Review 533 mesencephalon, metencephalon, and myelencephalon The brain stem is composed of the midbrain, pons, and become the brain stem. The cerebellum also develops medulla. It controls the head and neck region of the from the metencephalon and is a separate region of the body through the cranial nerves. There are control adult brain. centers in the brain stem that regulate the cardiovascular and respiratory systems. The spinal cord develops out of the rest of the neural tube and retains the tube structure, with the nervous The cerebellum is connected to the brain stem, tissue thickening and the hollow center becoming a primarily at the pons, where it receives a copy of the very small central canal through the cord. The rest of descending input from the cerebrum to the spinal cord. the hollow center of the neural tube corresponds to It can compare this with sensory feedback input open spaces within the brain called the ventricles, through the medulla and send output through the where cerebrospinal fluid is found. midbrain that can correct motor commands for coordination. 13.2The Central Nervous System 13.3Circulation and the Central Nervous The adult brain is separated into four major regions: System the cerebrum, the diencephalon, the brain stem, and the cerebellum. The cerebrum is the largest portion The CNS has a privileged blood supply established by and contains the cerebral cortex and subcortical nuclei. the blood-brain barrier. Establishing this barrier are It is divided into two halves by the longitudinal fissure. anatomical structures that help to protect and isolate the CNS. The arterial blood to the brain comes from the The cortex is separated into the frontal, parietal, internal carotid and vertebral arteries, which both temporal,
