Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


protect and isolate the CNS. The arterial blood to the brain comes from the The cortex is separated into the frontal, parietal, internal carotid and vertebral arteries, which both temporal, and occipital lobes. The frontal lobe is contribute to the unique circle of Willis that provides responsible for motor functions, from planning constant perfusion of the brain even if one of the blood movements through executing commands to be sent to vessels is blocked or narrowed. That blood is the spinal cord and periphery. The most anterior eventually filtered to make a separate medium, the portion of the frontal lobe is the prefrontal cortex, CSF, that circulates within the spaces of the brain and which is associated with aspects of personality through then into the surrounding space defined by the its influence on motor responses in decision-making. meninges, the protective covering of the brain and The other lobes are responsible for sensory functions. spinal cord. The parietal lobe is where somatosensation is The blood that nourishes the brain and spinal cord is processed. The occipital lobe is where visual behind the glial-cell–enforced blood-brain barrier, processing begins, although the other parts of the brain which limits the exchange of material from blood can contribute to visual function. The temporal lobe vessels with the interstitial fluid of the nervous tissue. contains the cortical area for auditory processing, but Thus, metabolic wastes are collected in cerebrospinal also has regions crucial for memory formation. fluid that circulates through the CNS. This fluid is Nuclei beneath the cerebral cortex, known as the produced by filtering blood at the choroid plexuses in subcortical nuclei, are responsible for augmenting the four ventricles of the brain. It then circulates cortical functions. The basal nuclei receive input from through the ventricles and into the subarachnoid cortical areas and compare it with the general state of space, between the pia mater and the arachnoid mater. the individual through the activity of a dopamine- From the arachnoid granulations, CSF is reabsorbed releasing nucleus. The output influences the activity of into the blood, removing the waste from the privileged part of the thalamus that can then increase or decrease central nervous tissue. cortical activity that often results in changes to motor The blood, now with the reabsorbed CSF, drains out of commands. The basal forebrain is responsible for the cranium through the dural sinuses. The dura mater modulating cortical activity in attention
