Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


blood, now with the reabsorbed CSF, drains out of commands. The basal forebrain is responsible for the cranium through the dural sinuses. The dura mater modulating cortical activity in attention and memory. is the tough outer covering of the CNS, which is The limbic system includes deep cerebral nuclei that anchored to the inner surface of the cranial and are responsible for emotion and memory. vertebral cavities. It surrounds the venous space The diencephalon includes the thalamus and the known as the dural sinuses, which connect to the hypothalamus, along with some other structures. The jugular veins, where blood drains from the head and thalamus is a relay between the cerebrum and the rest neck. of the nervous system. The hypothalamus coordinates 13.4The Peripheral Nervous System homeostatic functions through the autonomic and endocrine systems. The PNS is composed of the groups of neurons 534 13 • Interactive Link Questions (ganglia) and bundles of axons (nerves) that are strictly sensory in function, strictly motor in function, or outside of the brain and spinal cord. Ganglia are of two a combination of the two functions. Sensory fibers are types, sensory or autonomic. Sensory ganglia contain axons of sensory ganglia that carry sensory information unipolar sensory neurons and are found on the dorsal into the brain and target sensory nuclei. Motor fibers root of all spinal nerves as well as associated with are axons of motor neurons in motor nuclei of the brain many of the cranial nerves. Autonomic ganglia are in stem and target skeletal muscles of the head and neck. the sympathetic chain, the associated paravertebral or Spinal nerves are all mixed nerves with both sensory prevertebral ganglia, or in terminal ganglia near or and motor fibers. Spinal nerves emerge from the spinal within the organs controlled by the autonomic nervous cord and reorganize through plexuses, which then give system. rise to systemic nerves. Thoracic spinal nerves are not part of any plexus, but give rise to the intercostal Nerves are classified as cranial nerves or spinal nerves nerves directly. on the basis of their connection to the brain or spinal cord, respectively. The twelve cranial nerves can be Interactive Link Questions 1. Watch thisanimation( 4. Watch thisvideo( braindevel)to examine the development of the basalnuclei2)to learn about the basal nuclei (also brain, starting with the neural tube. As the anterior known as the basal ganglia), which have two end of the
