Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


development of the basalnuclei2)to learn about the basal nuclei (also brain, starting with the neural tube. As the anterior known as the basal ganglia), which have two end of the neural tube develops, it enlarges into the pathways that process information within the primary vesicles that establish the forebrain, cerebrum. As shown in this video, the indirect midbrain, and hindbrain. Those structures continue pathway is the longer pathway through the system to develop throughout the rest of embryonic that results in decreased activity in the cerebral development and into adolescence. They are the cortex, and therefore less motor activity. The basis of the structure of the fully developed adult indirect pathway has an extra couple of connections brain. How would you describe the difference in the in it, including disinhibition of the subthalamic relative sizes of the three regions of the brain when nucleus. What is the end result on the thalamus, comparing the early (25th embryonic day) brain and and therefore on movement initiated by the the adult brain? cerebral cortex? 2. Watch thisvideo( 5. Watch thisvideo( whitematter)to learn about the white matter in the to learn about the gray matter of the spinal cord cerebrum that develops during childhood and that receives input from fibers of the dorsal adolescence. This is a composite of MRI images (posterior) root and sends information out through taken of the brains of people from 5 years of age the fibers of the ventral (anterior) root. As through 20 years of age, demonstrating how the discussed in this video, these connections cerebrum changes. As the color changes to blue, represent the interactions of the CNS with the ratio of gray matter to white matter changes. peripheral structures for both sensory and motor The caption for the video describes it as “less gray functions. The cervical and lumbar spinal cords matter,” which is another way of saying “more white have enlargements as a result of larger populations matter.” If the brain does not finish developing until of neurons. What are these enlargements approximately 20 years of age, can teenagers be responsible for? held responsible for behaving badly? 3. Watch thisvideo( basalnuclei1)to learn about the basal nuclei (also known as the basal ganglia), which have two pathways that process information within the cerebrum. As shown in this video, the direct pathway is the shorter pathway through the system that results in increased activity in the
