Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


two pathways that process information within the cerebrum. As shown in this video, the direct pathway is the shorter pathway through the system that results in increased activity in the cerebral cortex and increased motor activity. The direct pathway is described as resulting in “disinhibition” of the thalamus. What does disinhibition mean? What are the two neurons doing individually to cause this? Access for free at openstax.org 13 • Review Questions 535 6. Compared with the nearest evolutionary relative, 9. Watch thisanimation( the chimpanzee, the human has a brain that is CSFflow)that shows the flow of CSF through the huge. At a point in the past, a common ancestor brain and spinal cord, and how it originates from gave rise to the two species of humans and the ventricles and then spreads into the space chimpanzees. That evolutionary history is long and within the meninges, where the fluids then move is still an area of intense study. But something into the venous sinuses to return to the happened to increase the size of the human brain cardiovascular circulation. What are the structures relative to the chimpanzee. Read thisarticle that produce CSF and where are they found? How ( which the are the structures indicated in this animation? author explores the current understanding of why 10. Figure 13.20If you zoom in on the DRG, you can this happened. see smaller satellite glial cells surrounding the According to one hypothesis about the expansion of large cell bodies of the sensory neurons. From brain size, what tissue might have been sacrificed what structure do satellite cells derive during so energy was available to grow our larger brain? embryologic development? Based on what you know about that tissue and 11. Figure 13.22To what structures in a skeletal nervous tissue, why would there be a trade-off muscle are the endoneurium, perineurium, and between them in terms of energy use? epineurium comparable? 7. Watch thisanimation( 12. Visit thissite( bloodflow1)to see how blood flows to the brain and NYTmeningitis)to read about a man who wakes passes through the circle of Willis before being with a headache and a loss of vision. His regular distributed through the cerebrum. The circle of doctor sent him to an ophthalmologist to address Willis is a specialized arrangement of arteries that the vision loss. The ophthalmologist recognizes a ensure constant perfusion of the cerebrum even in greater problem and immediately sends him
