Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


address Willis is a specialized arrangement of arteries that the vision loss. The ophthalmologist recognizes a ensure constant perfusion of the cerebrum even in greater problem and immediately sends him to the the event of a blockage of one of the arteries in the emergency room. Once there, the patient circle. The animation shows the normal direction of undergoes a large battery of tests, but a definite flow through the circle of Willis to the middle cause cannot be found. A specialist recognizes the cerebral artery. Where would the blood come from problem as meningitis, but the question is what if there were a blockage just posterior to the middle caused it originally. How can that be cured? The cerebral artery on the left? loss of vision comes from swelling around the 8. Watch thisvideo( optic nerve, which probably presented as a bulge lumbarpuncture)that describes the procedure on the inside of the eye. Why is swelling related to known as the lumbar puncture, a medical meningitis going to push on the optic nerve? procedure used to sample the CSF. Because of the anatomy of the CNS, it is a relative safe location to insert a needle. Why is the lumbar puncture performed in the lower lumbar area of the vertebral column? Review Questions 13. Aside from the nervous system, which other organ 15. Which adult structure(s) arises from the system develops out of the ectoderm? diencephalon? a. digestive a. thalamus, hypothalamus, retina b. respiratory b. midbrain, pons, medulla c. integumentary c. pons and cerebellum d. urinary d. cerebrum 14. Which primary vesicle of the embryonic nervous 16. Which non-nervous tissue develops from the system does not differentiate into more vesicles at neuroectoderm? the secondary stage? a. respiratory mucosa a. prosencephalon b. vertebral bone b. mesencephalon c. digestive lining c. diencephalon d. craniofacial bone d. rhombencephalon 536 13 • Review Questions 17. Which structure is associated with the 24. Which layer of the meninges surrounds and embryologic development of the peripheral supports the sinuses that form the route through nervous system? which blood drains from the CNS? a. neural crest a. dura mater b. neuraxis b. arachnoid mater c. rhombencephalon c. subarachnoid d. neural tube d. pia mater 18. Which lobe of the cerebral cortex is responsible 25. What type of glial cell is responsible for filtering for generating motor commands? blood to produce CSF at the choroid plexus? a. temporal
