Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


makes it easier to understand the the brain even if there is a blockage in one part of complexity of the adult nervous system. Give one the structure? example of how development in the embryonic 38. Meningitis is an inflammation of the meninges that nervous system explains a more complex can have severe effects on neurological function. structure in the adult nervous system. Why is infection of this structure potentially so 34. What happens in development that suggests that dangerous? there is a special relationship between the 39. Why are ganglia and nerves not surrounded by skeletal structure of the head and the nervous protective structures like the meninges of the system? CNS? 35. Damage to specific regions of the cerebral cortex, 40. Testing for neurological function involves a series such as through a stroke, can result in specific of tests of functions associated with the cranial losses of function. What functions would likely be nerves. What functions, and therefore which lost by a stroke in the temporal lobe? nerves, are being tested by asking a patient to 36. Why do the anatomical inputs to the cerebellum follow the tip of a pen with their eyes? suggest that it can compare motor commands and sensory feedback? 538 13 • Critical Thinking Questions Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 14 The Somatic Nervous System Figure14.1 Too Hot to TouchWhen high temperature is sensed in the skin, a reflexive withdrawal is initiated by the muscles of the arm. Sensory neurons are activated by a stimulus, which is sent to the central nervous system, and a motor response is sent out to the skeletal muscles that control this movement. CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Describe the components of the somatic nervous system • Name the modalities and submodalities of the sensory systems • Distinguish between general and special senses • Describe regions of the central nervous system that contribute to somatic functions • Explain the stimulus-response motor pathway INTRODUCTION The somatic nervous system is traditionally considered a division within the peripheral nervous system. However, this misses an important point: somatic refers to a functional division, whereas peripheral refers to an anatomic division. The somatic nervous system is responsible for our conscious perception of the environment and for our voluntary responses to that perception by means of skeletal muscles. Peripheral sensory neurons receive input from environmental stimuli,
