Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


thescala vestibuli. The scala vestibuli extends from the oval window, travelling above thecochlear duct, which is the central cavity of the cochlea that contains the sound-transducing neurons. At the uppermost tip of the cochlea, the scala vestibuli curves over the top of the cochlear duct. The fluid-filled tube, now called thescala tympani, returns to the base of the cochlea, this time travelling under the cochlear duct. The scala tympani ends at theround window, which is Access for free at openstax.org 14.1 • Sensory Perception 547 covered by a membrane that contains the fluid within the scala. As vibrations of the ossicles travel through the oval window, the fluid of the scala vestibuli and scala tympani moves in a wave-like motion. The frequency of the fluid waves match the frequencies of the sound waves (Figure 14.6). The membrane covering the round window will bulge out or pucker in with the movement of the fluid within the scala tympani. FIGURE14.6 Transmission of Sound Waves to Cochlea A sound wave causes the tympanic membrane to vibrate. This vibration is amplified as it moves across the malleus, incus, and stapes. The amplified vibration is picked up by the oval window causing pressure waves in the fluid of the scala vestibuli and scala tympani. The complexity of the pressure waves is determined by the changes in amplitude and frequency of the sound waves entering the ear. A cross-sectional view of the cochlea shows that the scala vestibuli and scala tympani run along both sides of the cochlear duct (Figure 14.7). The cochlear duct contains severalorgans of Corti, which transduce the wave motion of the two scala into neural signals. The organs of Corti lie on top of thebasilar membrane, which is the side of the cochlear duct located between the organs of Corti and the scala tympani. As the fluid waves move through the scala vestibuli and scala tympani, the basilar membrane moves at a specific spot, depending on the frequency of the waves. Higher frequency waves move the region of the basilar membrane that is close to the base of the cochlea. Lower frequency waves move the region of the basilar membrane that is near the tip of the cochlea. FIGURE14.7 Cross Section of the Cochlea The three major spaces within the cochlea are highlighted. The scala tympani and scala 548 14 • The Somatic Nervous System vestibuli lie on either side of the
