Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


exercise and noticed that you can only stretch so far before your muscles spasm back to a less stretched state? This spasm is a reflex that is initiated by stretch receptors to avoid muscle tearing. Such stretch receptors can also prevent over-contraction of a muscle. In skeletal muscle tissue, these stretch receptors are called muscle spindles. 552 14 • The Somatic Nervous System Golgi tendon organs similarly transduce the stretch levels of tendons. Bulbous corpuscles are also present in joint capsules, where they measure stretch in the components of the skeletal system within the joint. The types of nerve endings, their locations, and the stimuli they transduce are presented inTable 14.1. Mechanoreceptors of Somatosensation Historical Name (eponymous) Location(s) Stimuli name Free nerve Dermis, cornea, tongue, joint Pain, temperature, mechanical * endings capsules, visceral organs deformation Epidermal–dermal junction, Low frequency vibration (5–15 Mechanoreceptors Merkel’s discs mucosal membranes Hz) Ruffini’s Bulbous corpuscle Dermis, joint capsules Stretch corpuscle Meissner’s Papillary dermis, especially in Light touch, vibrations below 50 Tactile corpuscle corpuscle the fingertips and lips Hz Lamellated Pacinian Deep dermis, subcutaneous Deep pressure, high-frequency corpuscle corpuscle tissue vibration (around 250 Hz) Wrapped around hair follicles in Hair follicle plexus * Movement of hair the dermis In line with skeletal muscle Muscle spindle * Muscle contraction and stretch fibers Tendon stretch Golgi tendon In line with tendons Stretch of tendons organ organ TABLE14.1*No corresponding eponymous name. Vision Visionis the special sense of sight that is based on the transduction of light stimuli received through the eyes. The eyes are located within either orbit in the skull. The bony orbits surround the eyeballs, protecting them and anchoring the soft tissues of the eye (Figure 14.13). The eyelids, with lashes at their leading edges, help to protect the eye from abrasions by blocking particles that may land on the surface of the eye. The inner surface of each lid is a thin membrane known as thepalpebral conjunctiva. The conjunctiva extends over the white areas of the eye (the sclera), connecting the eyelids to the eyeball. Tears are produced by thelacrimal gland, located just inside the orbit, superior and lateral to the eyeball. Tears produced by this gland flow through thelacrimal ductto the medial corner of the eye, where the tears flow over the conjunctiva, washing away foreign particles. Access for free at openstax.org 14.1 • Sensory Perception 553 FIGURE14.13 The Eye in the Orbit The eye
