Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


by the trochlear nerve. All of the other muscles are innervated by the oculomotor nerve, as is the levator palpebrae superioris. The motor nuclei of these cranial nerves connect to the brain stem, which coordinates eye movements. FIGURE14.14 Extraocular Muscles The extraocular muscles move the eye within the orbit. 554 14 • The Somatic Nervous System The eye itself is a hollow sphere composed of three layers of tissue. The outermost layer is thefibrous tunic, which includes the whitescleraand clearcornea. The sclera accounts for five sixths of the surface of the eye, most of which is not visible, though humans are unique compared with many other species in having so much of the “white of the eye” visible (Figure 14.15). The transparent cornea covers the anterior tip of the eye and allows light to enter the eye. The middle layer of the eye is thevascular tunic, which is mostly composed of the choroid, ciliary body, and iris. Thechoroidis a layer of highly vascularized connective tissue that provides a blood supply to the eyeball. The choroid is posterior to theciliary body, a muscular structure that is attached to thelensby suspensory ligaments, orzonule fibers. These two structures bend the lens, allowing it to focus light on the back of the eye. Overlaying the ciliary body, and visible in the anterior eye, is theiris—the colored part of the eye. The iris is a smooth muscle that opens or closes thepupil, which is the hole at the center of the eye that allows light to enter. The iris constricts the pupil in response to bright light and dilates the pupil in response to dim light. The innermost layer of the eye is the neural tunic, orretina, which contains the nervous tissue responsible for photoreception. The eye is also divided into two cavities: the anterior cavity and the posterior cavity. The anterior cavity is the space between the cornea and lens, including the iris and ciliary body. It is filled with a watery fluid called theaqueous humor. The posterior cavity is the space behind the lens that extends to the posterior side of the interior eyeball, where the retina is located. The posterior cavity is filled with a more viscous fluid called thevitreous humor. The retina is composed of several layers and contains specialized cells for the initial processing of visual stimuli. The photoreceptors (rods and cones) change their membrane potential when stimulated by light
