Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


to interact with neurons at other levels of the spinal cord. A branch may also turn into the posterior (dorsal) column of the white matter to connect Access for free at openstax.org 14.2 • Central Processing 559 with the brain. For the sake of convenience, we will use the terms ventral and dorsal in reference to structures within the spinal cord that are part of these pathways. This will help to underscore the relationships between the different components. Typically, spinal nerve systems that connect to the brain arecontralateral, in that the right side of the body is connected to the left side of the brain and the left side of the body to the right side of the brain. Cranial Nerves Cranial nerves convey specific sensory information from the head and neck directly to the brain. Whereas spinal information is contralateral, cranial nerve systems, with some exceptions, are mostlyipsilateral, meaning that a cranial nerve on the right side of the head is connected to the right side of the brain. Some cranial nerves contain only sensory axons, such as the olfactory, optic, and vestibulocochlear nerves. Other cranial nerves contain both sensory and motor axons, including the trigeminal, facial, glossopharyngeal, and vagus nerves (however, the vagus nerve is not associated with the somatic nervous system). The general senses of somatosensation for the face travel through the trigeminal system. 14.2 Central Processing LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the pathways that sensory systems follow into the central nervous system • Differentiate between the two major ascending pathways in the spinal cord • Describe the pathway of somatosensory input from the face and compare it to the ascending pathways in the spinal cord • Explain topographical representations of sensory information in at least two systems • Describe two pathways of visual processing and the functions associated with each Sensory Pathways Specific regions of the CNS coordinate different somatic processes using sensory inputs and motor outputs of peripheral nerves. A simple case is a reflex caused by a synapse between a dorsal sensory neuron axon and a motor neuron in the ventral horn. More complex arrangements are possible to integrate peripheral sensory information with higher processes. The important regions of the CNS that play a role in somatic processes can be separated into the spinal cord brain stem, diencephalon, cerebral cortex, and subcortical structures. Spinal
