Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


processes. The important regions of the CNS that play a role in somatic processes can be separated into the spinal cord brain stem, diencephalon, cerebral cortex, and subcortical structures. Spinal Cord and Brain Stem A sensory pathway that carries peripheral sensations to the brain is referred to as anascending pathway, or ascending tract. The various sensory modalities each follow specific pathways through the CNS. Tactile and other somatosensory stimuli activate receptors in the skin, muscles, tendons, and joints throughout the entire body. However, the somatosensory pathways are divided into two separate systems on the basis of the location of the receptor neurons. Somatosensory stimuli from below the neck pass along the sensory pathways of the spinal cord, whereas somatosensory stimuli from the head and neck travel through the cranial nerves—specifically, the trigeminal system. Thedorsal column system(sometimes referred to as the dorsal column–medial lemniscus) and thespinothalamic tractare two major pathways that bring sensory information to the brain (Figure 14.19). The sensory pathways in each of these systems are composed of three successive neurons. The dorsal column system begins with the axon of a dorsal root ganglion neuron entering the dorsal root and joining the dorsal column white matter in the spinal cord. As axons of this pathway enter the dorsal column, they take on a positional arrangement so that axons from lower levels of the body position themselves medially, whereas axons from upper levels of the body position themselves laterally. The dorsal column is separated into two component tracts, thefasciculus gracilisthat contains axons from the legs and lower body, and thefasciculus cuneatusthat contains axons from the upper body and arms. The axons in the dorsal column terminate in the nuclei of the medulla, where each synapses with the second neuron in their respective pathway. Thenucleus gracilisis the target of fibers in the fasciculus gracilis, whereas the nucleus cuneatusis the target of fibers in the fasciculus cuneatus. The second neuron in the system projects from one of the two nuclei and thendecussates, or crosses the midline of the medulla. These axons then continue to 560 14 • The Somatic Nervous System ascend the brain stem as a bundle called themedial lemniscus. These axons terminate in the thalamus, where each synapses with the third neuron in their respective pathway. The third neuron in the system projects its axons to the postcentral gyrus of the cerebral cortex, where somatosensory stimuli are initially processed and
