Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


endings, walls of various organs. The special senses are all encapsulated endings, or specialized receptor cell), or primarily part of the somatic nervous system in that where the cell is located relative to the stimulus they are consciously perceived through cerebral (interoceptor, exteroceptor, proprioceptor). Thirdly, the processes, though some special senses contribute to functional classification is based on how the cell autonomic function. The general senses can be divided transduces the stimulus into a neural signal. into somatosensation, which is commonly considered Chemoreceptors respond to chemical stimuli and are touch, but includes tactile, pressure, vibration, the basis for olfaction and gustation. Related to temperature, and pain perception. The general senses chemoreceptors are osmoreceptors and nociceptors 584 14 • Chapter Review for fluid balance and pain reception, respectively. through the activity of these brain stem structures. The Mechanoreceptors respond to mechanical stimuli and vestibular system enters the brain stem and influences are the basis for most aspects of somatosensation, as activity in the cerebellum, spinal cord, and cerebral well as being the basis of audition and equilibrium in cortex. the inner ear. Thermoreceptors are sensitive to The visual pathway segregates information from the temperature changes, and photoreceptors are two eyes so that one half of the visual field projects to sensitive to light energy. the other side of the brain. Within visual cortical areas, The nerves that convey sensory information from the the perception of the stimuli and their location is periphery to the CNS are either spinal nerves, passed along two streams, one ventral and one dorsal. connected to the spinal cord, or cranial nerves, The ventral visual stream connects to structures in the connected to the brain. Spinal nerves have mixed temporal lobe that are important for long-term populations of fibers; some are motor fibers and some memory formation. The dorsal visual stream interacts are sensory. The sensory fibers connect to the spinal with the somatosensory cortex in the parietal lobe, and cord through the dorsal root, which is attached to the together they can influence the activity in the frontal dorsal root ganglion. Sensory information from the lobe to generate movements of the body in relation to body that is conveyed through spinal nerves will visual information. project to the opposite side of the brain to be 14.3Motor Responses processed by the cerebral cortex. The cranial nerves can be strictly sensory fibers, such as the olfactory, The motor
