Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


to the opposite side of the brain to be 14.3Motor Responses processed by the cerebral cortex. The cranial nerves can be strictly sensory fibers, such as the olfactory, The motor components of the somatic nervous system optic, and vestibulocochlear nerves, or mixed sensory begin with the frontal lobe of the brain, where the and motor nerves, such as the trigeminal, facial, prefrontal cortex is responsible for higher functions glossopharyngeal, and vagus nerves. The cranial such as working memory. The integrative and associate nerves are connected to the same side of the brain functions of the prefrontal lobe feed into the secondary from which the sensory information originates. motor areas, which help plan movements. The premotor cortex and supplemental motor area then 14.2Central Processing feed into the primary motor cortex that initiates Sensory input to the brain enters through pathways movements. Large Betz cells project through the that travel through either the spinal cord (for corticobulbar and corticospinal tracts to synapse on somatosensory input from the body) or the brain stem lower motor neurons in the brain stem and ventral horn (for everything else, except the visual and olfactory of the spinal cord, respectively. These connections are systems) to reach the diencephalon. In the responsible for generating movements of skeletal diencephalon, sensory pathways reach the thalamus. muscles. This is necessary for all sensory systems to reach the The extrapyramidal system includes projections from cerebral cortex, except for the olfactory system that is the brain stem and higher centers that influence directly connected to the frontal and temporal lobes. movement, mostly to maintain balance and posture, as The two major tracts in the spinal cord, originating from well as to maintain muscle tone. The superior colliculus sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglia, are the and red nucleus in the midbrain, the vestibular nuclei in dorsal column system and the spinothalamic tract. The the medulla, and the reticular formation throughout the major differences between the two are in the type of brain stem each have tracts projecting to the spinal information that is relayed to the brain and where the cord in this system. Descending input from the tracts decussate. The dorsal column system primarily secondary motor cortices, basal nuclei, and cerebellum carries information about touch and proprioception and connect to the origins of these tracts in the brain stem. crosses the midline in the medulla. The spinothalamic All of these motor
