Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


carries information about touch and proprioception and connect to the origins of these tracts in the brain stem. crosses the midline in the medulla. The spinothalamic All of these motor pathways project to the spinal cord tract is primarily responsible for pain and temperature to synapse with motor neurons in the ventral horn of sensation and crosses the midline in the spinal cord at the spinal cord. These lower motor neurons are the the level at which it enters. The trigeminal nerve adds cells that connect to skeletal muscle and cause similar sensation information from the head to these contractions. These neurons project through the spinal pathways. nerves to connect to the muscles at neuromuscular The auditory pathway passes through multiple nuclei in junctions. One motor neuron connects to multiple the brain stem in which additional information is muscle fibers within a target muscle. The number of extracted from the basic frequency stimuli processed fibers that are innervated by a single motor neuron by the cochlea. Sound localization is made possible varies on the basis of the precision necessary for that Access for free at openstax.org 14 • Interactive Link Questions 585 muscle and the amount of force necessary for that spinal cord and the motor neuron that projects to a motor unit. The quadriceps, for example, have many muscle. Antagonist and postural muscles can be fibers controlled by single motor neurons for powerful coordinated with the withdrawal, making the contractions that do not need to be precise. The connections more complex. The simple, single extraocular muscles have only a small number of fibers neuronal connection is the basis of somatic reflexes. controlled by each motor neuron because moving the The corneal reflex is contraction of the orbicularis oculi eyes does not require much force, but needs to be very muscle to blink the eyelid when something touches the precise. surface of the eye. Stretch reflexes maintain a constant length of muscles by causing a contraction of a muscle Reflexes are the simplest circuits within the somatic to compensate for a stretch that can be sensed by a nervous system. A withdrawal reflex from a painful specialized receptor called a muscle spindle. stimulus only requires the sensory fiber that enters the Interactive Link Questions 1. Watch thisvideo( 4. Watch thisanimation( DanielleReed)to learn about Dr. Danielle Reed of learn more about the inner ear and to see the the Monell Chemical
