Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the Interactive Link Questions 1. Watch thisvideo( 4. Watch thisanimation( DanielleReed)to learn about Dr. Danielle Reed of learn more about the inner ear and to see the the Monell Chemical Senses Center in Philadelphia, cochlea unroll, with the base at the back of the PA, who became interested in science at an early image and the apex at the front. Specific age because of her sensory experiences. She wavelengths of sound cause specific regions of the recognized that her sense of taste was unique basilar membrane to vibrate, much like the keys of compared with other people she knew. Now, she a piano produce sound at different frequencies. studies the genetic differences between people and Based on the animation, where do their sensitivities to taste stimuli. In the video, frequencies—from high to low pitches—cause there is a brief image of a person sticking out their activity in the hair cells within the cochlear duct? tongue, which has been covered with a colored dye. 5. Watch thisvideo( This is how Dr. Reed is able to visualize and count learn more about a transverse section through the papillae on the surface of the tongue. People fall brain that depicts the visual pathway from the eye into two large groups known as “tasters” and “non- to the occipital cortex. The first half of the pathway tasters” on the basis of the density of papillae on is the projection from the RGCs through the optic their tongue, which also indicates the number of nerve to the lateral geniculate nucleus in the taste buds. Non-tasters can taste food, but they are thalamus on either side. This first fiber in the not as sensitive to certain tastes, such as pathway synapses on a thalamic cell that then bitterness. Dr. Reed discovered that she is a non- projects to the visual cortex in the occipital lobe taster, which explains why she perceived bitterness where “seeing,” or visual perception, takes place. differently than other people she knew. Are you This video gives an abbreviated overview of the very sensitive to tastes? Can you see any visual system by concentrating on the pathway from similarities among the members of your family? the eyes to the occipital lobe. The video makes the 2. Figure 14.9The basilar membrane is the thin statement (at 0:45) that “specialized cells in the membrane that extends from the central core of the retina called ganglion
