Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


makes the 2. Figure 14.9The basilar membrane is the thin statement (at 0:45) that “specialized cells in the membrane that extends from the central core of the retina called ganglion cells convert the light rays cochlea to the edge. What is anchored to this into electrical signals.” What aspect of retinal membrane so that they can be activated by processing is simplified by that statement? Explain movement of the fluids within the cochlea? your answer. 3. Watch thisvideo( learn more about how the structures of the ear convert sound waves into a neural signal by moving the “hairs,” or stereocilia, of the cochlear duct. Specific locations along the length of the duct encode specific frequencies, or pitches. The brain interprets the meaning of the sounds we hear as music, speech, noise, etc. Which ear structures are responsible for the amplification and transfer of sound from the external ear to the inner ear? 586 14 • Review Questions 6. Watch thisvideo( 9. Visit thissite( learn more about how the brain perceives 3-D read about an elderly woman who starts to lose the motion. Similar to how retinal disparity offers 3-D ability to control fine movements, such as speech moviegoers a way to extract 3-D information from and the movement of limbs. Many of the usual the two-dimensional visual field projected onto the causes were ruled out. It was not a stroke, retina, the brain can extract information about Parkinson’s disease, diabetes, or thyroid movement in space by comparing what the two dysfunction. The next most obvious cause was eyes see. If movement of a visual stimulus is medication, so her pharmacist had to be consulted. leftward in one eye and rightward in the opposite The side effect of a drug meant to help her sleep eye, the brain interprets this as movement toward had resulted in changes in motor control. What (or away) from the face along the midline. If both regions of the nervous system are likely to be the eyes see an object moving in the same direction, focus of haloperidol side effects? but at different rates, what would that mean for 10. Watch thisvideo( spatial movement? to learn more about the reflex arc of the corneal 7. The inability to recognize people by their faces is a reflex. When the right cornea senses a tactile troublesome problem. It can be caused by trauma, stimulus, what happens to the
