Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


inability to recognize people by their faces is a reflex. When the right cornea senses a tactile troublesome problem. It can be caused by trauma, stimulus, what happens to the left eye? Explain or it may be inborn. Watch thisvideo your answer. ( learn more about a 11. Watch thisvideo( person who lost the ability to recognize faces as the to learn more about newborn reflexes. Newborns result of an injury. She cannot recognize the faces of have a set of reflexes that are expected to have close family members or herself. What other been crucial to survival before the modern age. information can a person suffering from These reflexes disappear as the baby grows, as prosopagnosia use to figure out whom they are some of them may be unnecessary as they age. seeing? The video demonstrates a reflex called the 8. Watch thisvideo( Babinski reflex, in which the foot flexes dorsally motorpathway)to learn more about the descending and the toes splay out when the sole of the foot is motor pathway for the somatic nervous system. The lightly scratched. This is normal for newborns, but autonomic connections are mentioned, which are it is a sign of reduced myelination of the spinal covered in another chapter. From this brief video, tract in adults. Why would this reflex be a problem only some of the descending motor pathway of the for an adult? somatic nervous system is described. Which division of the pathway is described and which division is left out? Review Questions 12. What type of receptor cell is responsible for 14. Which submodality of taste is sensitive to the pH transducing pain stimuli? of saliva? a. mechanoreceptor a. umami b. nociceptor b. sour c. osmoreceptor c. bitter d. photoreceptor d. sweet 13. Which of these cranial nerves is part of the 15. Axons from which neuron in the retina make up gustatory system? the optic nerve? a. olfactory a. amacrine cells b. trochlear b. photoreceptors c. trigeminal c. bipolar cells d. facial d. retinal ganglion cells Access for free at openstax.org 14 • Critical Thinking Questions 587 16. What type of receptor cell is involved in the 22. Which region of the frontal lobe is responsible for sensations of sound and balance? initiating movement by directly connecting to a. photoreceptor cranial and spinal motor neurons? b. chemoreceptor a. prefrontal cortex c. mechanoreceptor b. supplemental motor area d. nociceptor c.
