Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


sound and balance? initiating movement by directly connecting to a. photoreceptor cranial and spinal motor neurons? b. chemoreceptor a. prefrontal cortex c. mechanoreceptor b. supplemental motor area d. nociceptor c. premotor cortex d. primary motor cortex 17. Which of these sensory modalities doesnotpass through the ventral posterior thalamus? 23. Which extrapyramidal tract incorporates a. gustatory equilibrium sensations with motor commands to b. proprioception aid in posture and movement? c. audition a. tectospinal tract d. nociception b. vestibulospinal tract c. reticulospinal tract 18. Which nucleus in the medulla is connected to the d. corticospinal tract inferior colliculus? a. solitary nucleus 24. Which region of gray matter in the spinal cord b. vestibular nucleus contains motor neurons that innervate skeletal c. chief sensory nucleus muscles? d. cochlear nucleus a. ventral horn b. dorsal horn 19. Visual stimuli in the upper-left visual field will be c. lateral horn processed in what region of the primary visual d. lateral column cortex? a. inferior right 25. What type of reflex can protect the foot when a b. inferior left painful stimulus is sensed? c. superior right a. stretch reflex d. superior left b. gag reflex c. withdrawal reflex 20. Which location on the body has the largest region d. corneal reflex of somatosensory cortex representing it, according to the sensory homunculus? 26. What is the name for the topographical a. lips representation of the sensory input to the b. thigh somatosensory cortex? c. elbow a. homunculus d. neck b. homo sapiens c. postcentral gyrus 21. Which of the following is a direct target of the d. primary cortex vestibular ganglion? a. superior colliculus b. cerebellum c. thalamus d. optic chiasm Critical Thinking Questions 27. The sweetener known as stevia can replace 29. Following a motorcycle accident, the victim loses glucose in food. What does the molecular the ability to move the right leg but has normal similarity of stevia to glucose mean for the control over the left one, suggesting a hemisection gustatory sense? somewhere in the thoracic region of the spinal 28. Why does the blind spot from the optic disc in cord. What sensory deficits would be expected in either eye not result in a blind spot in the visual terms of touch versus pain? Explain your answer. field? 30. A pituitary tumor can cause perceptual losses in the lateral visual field. The pituitary gland is located directly inferior to the hypothalamus. Why
