Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


versus pain? Explain your answer. field? 30. A pituitary tumor can cause perceptual losses in the lateral visual field. The pituitary gland is located directly inferior to the hypothalamus. Why would this happen? 588 14 • Critical Thinking Questions 31. The prefrontal lobotomy is a drastic—and largely 32. If a reflex is a limited circuit within the somatic out-of-practice—procedure used to disconnect system, why do physical and neurological exams that portion of the cerebral cortex from the rest of include them to test the health of an individual? the frontal lobe and the diencephalon as a psychiatric therapy. Why would this have been thought necessary for someone with a potentially uncontrollable behavior? Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 15 The Autonomic Nervous System Figure15.1 Fight or Flight?Though the threats that modern humans face are not large predators, the autonomic nervous system is adapted to this type of stimulus. The modern world presents stimuli that trigger the same response. (credit: Vernon Swanepoel) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Describe the components of the autonomic nervous system • Differentiate between the structures of the sympathetic and parasympathetic divisions in the autonomic nervous system • Name the components of a visceral reflex specific to the autonomic division to which it belongs • Predict the response of a target effector to autonomic input on the basis of the released signaling molecule • Describe how the central nervous system coordinates and contributes to autonomic functions INTRODUCTION The autonomic nervous system is often associated with the “fight-or-flight response,” which refers to the preparation of the body to either run away from a threat or to stand and fight in the face of that threat. To suggest what this means, consider the (very unlikely) situation of seeing a lioness hunting out on the savannah. Though this is not a common threat that humans deal with in the modern world, it represents the type of environment in which the human species thrived and adapted. The spread of humans around the world to the present state of the modern age occurred much more quickly than any species would adapt to environmental pressures such as predators. However, the reactions modern humans have in the modern world are based on these prehistoric situations. If your boss is walking down the hallway on Friday afternoon looking for “volunteers” to come in on the weekend, your response
