Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


chain ganglia on either side of the vertebral column or to collateral (prevertebral) ganglia that are anterior to the vertebral column in the abdominal cavity. Axons from these ganglionic neurons (postganglionic nerve fibers - dotted lines) then project to target effectors throughout the body. To continue with the analogy of the circuit diagram, there are three different types of “junctions” that operate within the sympathetic system (Figure 15.3). The first type is most direct: the sympathetic nerve projects to the chain ganglion at the same level as thetarget effector(the organ, tissue, or gland to be innervated). An example of this type is spinal nerve T1 that synapses with the T1 chain ganglion to innervate the trachea. The fibers of this branch Access for free at openstax.org 15.1 • Divisions of the Autonomic Nervous System 593 are calledwhite rami communicantes(singular = ramus communicans); they are myelinated and therefore referred to as white (seeFigure 15.3a). The axon from the central neuron (the preganglionic fiber shown as a solid line) synapses with theganglionic neuron(with the postganglionic fiber shown as a dashed line). This neuron then projects to a target effector—in this case, the trachea—viagray rami communicantes, which are unmyelinated axons. In some cases, the target effectors are located superior or inferior to the spinal segment at which the preganglionic fiber emerges. With respect to the “wiring” involved, the synapse with the ganglionic neuron occurs at chain ganglia superior or inferior to the location of the central neuron. An example of this is spinal nerve T1 that innervates the eye. The spinal nerve tracks up through the chain until it reaches thesuperior cervical ganglion, where it synapses with the postganglionic neuron (seeFigure 15.3b). The cervical ganglia are referred to asparavertebral ganglia, given their location adjacent to prevertebral ganglia in the sympathetic chain. Not all axons from the central neurons terminate in the chain ganglia. Additional branches from the ventral nerve root continue through the chain and on to one of the collateral ganglia as thegreater splanchnic nerveorlesser splanchnic nerve. For example, the greater splanchnic nerve at the level of T5 synapses with a collateral ganglion outside the chain before making the connection to the postganglionic nerves that innervate the stomach (seeFigure 15.3c). Collateral ganglia, also calledprevertebral ganglia, are situated anterior to the vertebral column and receive inputs from splanchnic nerves as well as central sympathetic neurons. They are associated with controlling organs in the
