Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the intramural ganglia. 596 15 • The Autonomic Nervous System FIGURE15.4 Connections of Parasympathetic Division of the Autonomic Nervous System Neurons from brain-stem nuclei, or from the lateral horn of the sacral spinal cord, project to terminal ganglia near or within the various organs of the body. Axons from these ganglionic neurons then project the short distance to those target effectors. Chemical Signaling in the Autonomic Nervous System Where an autonomic neuron connects with a target, there is a synapse. The electrical signal of the action potential Access for free at openstax.org 15.1 • Divisions of the Autonomic Nervous System 597 causes the release of a signaling molecule, which will bind to receptor proteins on the target cell. Synapses of the autonomic system are classified as eithercholinergic, meaning thatacetylcholine (ACh)is released, oradrenergic, meaning thatnorepinephrineis released. The terms cholinergic and adrenergic refer not only to the signaling molecule that is released but also to the class of receptors that each binds. The cholinergic system includes two classes of receptor: thenicotinic receptorand themuscarinic receptor. Both receptor types bind to ACh and cause changes in the target cell. The nicotinic receptor is aligand-gated cation channeland the muscarinic receptor is aG protein–coupled receptor. The receptors are named for, and differentiated by, other molecules that bind to them. Whereas nicotine will bind to the nicotinic receptor, and muscarine will bind to the muscarinic receptor, there is no cross-reactivity between the receptors. The situation is similar to locks and keys. Imagine two locks—one for a classroom and the other for an office—that are opened by two separate keys. The classroom key will not open the office door and the office key will not open the classroom door. This is similar to the specificity of nicotine and muscarine for their receptors. However, a master key can open multiple locks, such as a master key for the Biology Department that opens both the classroom and the office doors. This is similar to ACh that binds to both types of receptors. The molecules that define these receptors are not crucial—they are simply tools for researchers to use in the laboratory. These molecules areexogenous, meaning that they are made outside of the human body, so a researcher can use them without any confoundingendogenous results (results caused by the molecules produced in the body). The adrenergic system also has two types of receptors, named thealpha (α)-adrenergic receptorandbeta (β)- adrenergic receptor. Unlike
