Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


with constricting the pupil through the smooth muscle of the iris, pilocarpine will also cause the ciliary muscle to contract. This will open perforations at the base of the cornea, allowing for the drainage of aqueous humor from the anterior compartment of the eye and, therefore, reducing intraocular pressure related to glaucoma. Atropine and scopolamine are part of a class of muscarinic antagonists that come from theAtropagenus of plants that include belladonna or deadly nightshade (Figure 15.15). The name of one of these plants, belladonna, refers to the fact that extracts from this plant were used cosmetically for dilating the pupil. The active chemicals from this plant block the muscarinic receptors in the iris and allow the pupil to dilate, which is considered attractive because it makes the eyes appear larger. Humans are instinctively attracted to anything with larger eyes, which comes from the fact that the ratio of eye-to-head size is different in infants (or baby animals) and can elicit an emotional response. The cosmetic use of belladonna extract was essentially acting on this response. Atropine is no longer used in this cosmetic capacity for reasons related to the other name for the plant, which is deadly nightshade. Suppression of parasympathetic function, especially when it becomes systemic, can be fatal. Autonomic regulation is disrupted and anticholinergic symptoms develop. The berries of this plant are highly toxic, but can be mistaken for other berries. The antidote for atropine or scopolamine poisoning is pilocarpine. FIGURE15.15 Belladonna Plant The plant from the genusAtropa, which is known as belladonna or deadly nightshade, was used cosmetically to dilate pupils, but can be fatal when ingested. The berries on the plant may seem attractive as a fruit, but they contain the same anticholinergic compounds as the rest of the plant. 614 15 • The Autonomic Nervous System Sympathetic and Parasympathetic Effects of Different Drug Types Parasympathetic Drug type Example(s) Sympathetic effect Overall result effect Mimic ACh at Mimic ACh at Most conflicting preganglionic preganglionic signals cancel each synapses, causing synapses, causing other out, but activation of activation of cardiovascular Nicotinic agonists Nicotine postganglionic fibers postganglionic fibers system is and the release of and the release of susceptible to norepinephrine onto ACh onto the target hypertension and the target organ organ arrhythmias Bind to adrenergic Sympathomimetic receptors or mimics Increase Phenylephrine No effect drugs sympathetic action in sympathetic tone some other way β-blockers such as Block
