Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


and the target organ organ arrhythmias Bind to adrenergic Sympathomimetic receptors or mimics Increase Phenylephrine No effect drugs sympathetic action in sympathetic tone some other way β-blockers such as Block binding to Increase Sympatholytic propanolol or adrenergic drug or No effect parasympathetic drugs metoprolol; α- decrease adrenergic tone agonists such signals as clonidine Parasymphatho- Bind to muscarinic Increase mimetics/ No effect, except on Pilocarpine receptor, similar to parasympathetic muscarinic sweat glands ACh tone agonists Block muscarinic Anticholinergics/ Atropine, receptors and Increase muscarinic scopolamine, No effect parasympathetic sympathetic tone antagonists dimenhydrinate function TABLE15.2 Disorders of the... Autonomic Nervous System Approximately 33 percent of people experience a mild problem with motion sickness, whereas up to 66 percent experience motion sickness under extreme conditions, such as being on a tossing boat with no view of the horizon. Connections between regions in the brain stem and the autonomic system result in the symptoms of nausea, cold sweats, and vomiting. The part of the brain responsible for vomiting, or emesis, is known as the area postrema. It is located next to the fourth ventricle and is not restricted by the blood–brain barrier, which allows it to respond to chemicals in the bloodstream—namely, toxins that will stimulate emesis. There are significant connections between this area, the solitary nucleus, and the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve. These autonomic system and nuclei connections are associated with the symptoms of motion sickness. Motion sickness is the result of conflicting information from the visual and vestibular systems. If motion is Access for free at openstax.org 15.4 • Drugs that Affect the Autonomic System 615 perceived by the visual system without the complementary vestibular stimuli, or through vestibular stimuli without visual confirmation, the brain stimulates emesis and the associated symptoms. The area postrema, by itself, appears to be able to stimulate emesis in response to toxins in the blood, but it is also connected to the autonomic system and can trigger a similar response to motion. Autonomic drugs are used to combat motion sickness. Though it is often described as a dangerous and deadly drug, scopolamine is used to treat motion sickness. A popular treatment for motion sickness is the transdermal scopolamine patch. Scopolamine is one of the substances derived from theAtropagenus along with atropine. At higher doses, those substances are thought to be poisonous and can lead to an extreme sympathetic syndrome. However, the transdermal patch regulates the
