Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


us, to manage the internal environment on the many organ systems at once. basis of the external environment, is divided between two parts of the autonomic nervous system. The The parasympathetic output is based in the brain stem sympathetic division responds to threats and produces and sacral spinal cord. Neurons from particular nuclei a readiness to confront the threat or to run away: the in the brain stem or from the lateral horn of the sacral fight-or-flight response. The parasympathetic division spinal cord (preganglionic neurons) project to terminal plays the opposite role. When the external environment (intramural) ganglia located close to or within the wall does not present any immediate danger, a restful mode of target effectors. These preganglionic fibers also descends on the body, and the digestive system is release ACh onto nicotinic receptors to excite the more active. ganglionic neurons. The postganglionic fibers then contact the target tissues within the organ to release The sympathetic output of the nervous system ACh, which binds to muscarinic receptors to induce originates out of the lateral horn of the thoracolumbar rest-and-digest responses. spinal cord. An axon from one of these central neurons projects by way of the ventral spinal nerve root and Signaling molecules utilized by the autonomic nervous spinal nerve to a sympathetic ganglion, either in the system are released from axons and can be considered sympathetic chain ganglia or one of the collateral as either neurotransmitters (when they directly interact locations, where it synapses on a ganglionic neuron. with the effector) or as hormones (when they are These preganglionic fibers release ACh, which excites released into the bloodstream). The same molecule, the ganglionic neuron through the nicotinic receptor. such as norepinephrine, could be considered either a The axon from the ganglionic neuron—the neurotransmitter or a hormone on the basis of whether postganglionic fiber—then projects to a target effector it is released from a postganglionic sympathetic axon where it will release norepinephrine to bind to an or from the adrenal gland. The synapses in the adrenergic receptor, causing a change in the physiology autonomic system are not always the typical type of of that organ in keeping with the broad, divergent connection first described in the neuromuscular sympathetic response. The postganglionic connections junction. Instead of having synaptic end bulbs at the to sweat glands in the skin and blood vessels supplying very end of an axonal fiber, they may have
