Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


postganglionic connections junction. Instead of having synaptic end bulbs at the to sweat glands in the skin and blood vessels supplying very end of an axonal fiber, they may have Access for free at openstax.org 15 • Chapter Review 619 swellings—called varicosities—along the length of a pathways to regulate activities of the organ systems of fiber so that it makes a network of connections within the body. The majority of hypothalamic output travels the target tissue. through the medial forebrain bundle and the dorsal longitudinal fasciculus to influence brain stem and 15.2Autonomic Reflexes and Homeostasis spinal components of the autonomic nervous system. Autonomic nervous system function is based on the The medial forebrain bundle also connects the visceral reflex. This reflex is similar to the somatic hypothalamus with higher centers of the limbic system reflex, but the efferent branch is composed of two where emotion can influence visceral responses. The neurons. The central neuron projects from the spinal amygdala is a structure within the limbic system that cord or brain stem to synapse on the ganglionic neuron influences the hypothalamus in the regulation of the that projects to the effector. The afferent branch of the autonomic system, as well as the endocrine system. somatic and visceral reflexes is very similar, as many These higher centers have descending control of the somatic and special senses activate autonomic autonomic system through brain stem centers, responses. However, there are visceral senses that do primarily in the medulla, such as the cardiovascular not form part of conscious perception. If a visceral center. This collection of medullary nuclei regulates sensation, such as cardiac pain, is strong enough, it will cardiac function, as well as blood pressure. Sensory rise to the level of consciousness. However, the input from the heart, aorta, and carotid sinuses project sensory homunculus does not provide a representation to these regions of the medulla. The solitary nucleus of the internal structures to the same degree as the increases sympathetic tone of the cardiovascular surface of the body, so visceral sensations are often system through the cardiac accelerator and vasomotor experienced as referred pain, such as feelings of pain nerves. The nucleus ambiguus and the dorsal motor in the left shoulder and arm in connection with a heart nucleus both contribute fibers to the vagus nerve, attack. which exerts parasympathetic control of the heart by The role of visceral reflexes is to maintain
