Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


in connection with a heart nucleus both contribute fibers to the vagus nerve, attack. which exerts parasympathetic control of the heart by The role of visceral reflexes is to maintain a balance of decreasing heart rate. function in the organ systems of the body. The two 15.4Drugs that Affect the Autonomic divisions of the autonomic system each play a role in System effecting change, usually in competing directions. The sympathetic system increases heart rate, whereas the The autonomic system is affected by a number of parasympathetic system decreases heart rate. The exogenous agents, including some that are therapeutic sympathetic system dilates the pupil of the eye, and some that are illicit. These drugs affect the whereas the parasympathetic system constricts the autonomic system by mimicking or interfering with the pupil. The competing inputs can contribute to the endogenous agents or their receptors. A survey of how resting tone of the organ system. Heart rate is normally different drugs affect autonomic function illustrates the under parasympathetic tone, whereas blood pressure role that the neurotransmitters and hormones play in is normally under sympathetic tone. The heart rate is autonomic function. Drugs can be thought of as slowed by the autonomic system at rest, whereas chemical tools to effect changes in the system with blood vessels retain a slight constriction at rest. some precision, based on where those drugs are effective. In a few systems of the body, the competing input from the two divisions is not the norm. The sympathetic tone Nicotine is not a drug that is used therapeutically, of blood vessels is caused by the lack of except for smoking cessation. When it is introduced parasympathetic input to the systemic circulatory into the body via products, it has broad effects on the system. Only certain regions receive parasympathetic autonomic system. Nicotine carries a risk for input that relaxes the smooth muscle wall of the blood cardiovascular disease because of these broad effects. vessels. Sweat glands are another example, which only The drug stimulates both sympathetic and receive input from the sympathetic system. parasympathetic ganglia at the preganglionic fiber synapse. For most organ systems in the body, the 15.3Central Control competing input from the two postganglionic fibers will The autonomic system integrates sensory information essentially cancel each other out. However, for the and higher cognitive processes to generate output, cardiovascular system, the results are different. which balances homeostatic mechanisms. The central
