Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


integrates sensory information essentially cancel each other out. However, for the and higher cognitive processes to generate output, cardiovascular system, the results are different. which balances homeostatic mechanisms. The central Because there is essentially no parasympathetic autonomic structure is the hypothalamus, which influence on blood pressure for the entire body, the coordinates sympathetic and parasympathetic efferent sympathetic input is increased by nicotine, causing an 620 15 • Interactive Link Questions increase in blood pressure. Also, the influence that the called sympathomimetic drugs. Drugs such as autonomic system has on the heart is not the same as phenylephrine bind to the adrenergic receptors and for other systems. Other organs have smooth muscle or stimulate target organs just as sympathetic activity glandular tissue that is activated or inhibited by the would. Other drugs are sympatholytic because they autonomic system. Cardiac muscle is intrinsically block adrenergic activity and cancel the sympathetic active and is modulated by the autonomic system. The influence on the target organ. Drugs that act on the contradictory signals do not just cancel each other out, parasympathetic system also work by either enhancing they alter the regularity of the heart rate and can cause the postganglionic signal or blocking it. A muscarinic arrhythmias. Both hypertension and arrhythmias are agonist (or parasympathomimetic drug) acts just like risk factors for heart disease. ACh released by the parasympathetic postganglionic fiber. Anticholinergic drugs block muscarinic receptors, Other drugs affect one division of the autonomic suppressing parasympathetic interaction with the system or the other. The sympathetic system is organ. affected by drugs that mimic the actions of adrenergic molecules (norepinephrine and epinephrine) and are Interactive Link Questions 1. Watch thisvideo( 3. Read thisarticle( to learn more about adrenaline and the fight-or- to learn about a teenager who experiences a series flight response. When someone is said to have a of spells that suggest a stroke. He undergoes rush of adrenaline, the image of bungee jumpers or endless tests and seeks input from multiple skydivers usually comes to mind. But adrenaline, doctors. In the end, one expert, one question, and a also known as epinephrine, is an important simple blood pressure cuff answers the question. chemical in coordinating the body’s fight-or-flight Why would the heart have to beat faster when the response. In this video, you look inside the teenager changes his body position from lying down physiology of the fight-or-flight response, as to sitting, and
