Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


to beat faster when the response. In this video, you look inside the teenager changes his body position from lying down physiology of the fight-or-flight response, as to sitting, and then to standing? envisioned for a firefighter. His body’s reaction is 4. Watch thisvideo( the result of the sympathetic division of the learn about the pupillary reflexes. The pupillary autonomic nervous system causing system-wide light reflex involves sensory input through the optic changes as it prepares for extreme responses. What nerve and motor response through the oculomotor two changes does adrenaline bring about to help nerve to the ciliary ganglion, which projects to the the skeletal muscle response? circular fibers of the iris. As shown in this short 2. Watch thisvideo( animation, pupils will constrict to limit the amount nervsystem1)to learn more about the nervous of light falling on the retina under bright lighting system. As described in this video, the nervous conditions. What constitutes the afferent and system has a way to deal with threats and stress efferent branches of the competing reflex that is separate from the conscious control of the (dilation)? somatic nervous system. The system comes from a 5. Watch thisvideo( time when threats were about survival, but in the to learn about physical responses to emotion. The modern age, these responses become part of stress autonomic system, which is important for regulating and anxiety. This video describes how the the homeostasis of the organ systems, is also autonomic system is only part of the response to responsible for our physiological responses to threats, or stressors. What other organ system gets emotions such as fear. The video summarizes the involved, and what part of the brain coordinates the extent of the body’s reactions and describes several two systems for the entire response, including effects of the autonomic system in response to fear. epinephrine (adrenaline) and cortisol? On the basis of what you have already studied about autonomic function, which effect would you expect to be associated with parasympathetic, rather than sympathetic, activity? Access for free at openstax.org 15 • Review Questions 621 6. Watch thisvideo( to learn about the side effects of 3-D movies. As discussed in this video, movies that are shot in 3-D can cause motion sickness, which elicits the autonomic symptoms of nausea and sweating. The disconnection between the perceived motion on the screen and the lack of any change in equilibrium stimulates
