Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


cause motion sickness, which elicits the autonomic symptoms of nausea and sweating. The disconnection between the perceived motion on the screen and the lack of any change in equilibrium stimulates these symptoms. Why do you think sitting close to the screen or right in the middle of the theater makes motion sickness during a 3-D movie worse? Review Questions 7. Which of these physiological changes wouldnotbe 12. Which of the following represents a sensory input considered part of the sympathetic fight-or-flight that isnotpart of both the somatic and autonomic response? systems? a. increased heart rate a. vision b. increased sweating b. taste c. dilated pupils c. baroreception d. increased stomach motility d. proprioception 8. Which type of fiber could be considered the 13. What is the term for a reflex that doesnotinclude longest? a CNS component? a. preganglionic parasympathetic a. long reflex b. preganglionic sympathetic b. visceral reflex c. postganglionic parasympathetic c. somatic reflex d. postganglionic sympathetic d. short reflex 9. Which signaling molecule ismost likelyresponsible 14. What neurotransmitter will result in constriction of for an increase in digestive activity? the pupil? a. epinephrine a. norepinephrine b. norepinephrine b. acetylcholine c. acetylcholine c. epinephrine d. adrenaline d. serotonin 10. Which of these cranial nerves contains 15. What gland produces a secretion that causes preganglionic parasympathetic fibers? fight-or-flight responses in effectors? a. optic, CN II a. adrenal medulla b. facial, CN VII b. salivatory gland c. trigeminal, CN V c. reproductive gland d. hypoglossal, CN XII d. thymus 11. Which of the following isnota target of a 16. Which of the following is an incorrect pairing? sympathetic preganglionic fiber? a. norepinephrine dilates the pupil a. intermural ganglion b. epinephrine increases blood pressure b. collateral ganglion c. acetylcholine decreases digestion c. adrenal gland d. norepinephrine increases heart rate d. chain ganglion 17. Which of these locations in the forebrain is the master control center for homeostasis through the autonomic and endocrine systems? a. hypothalamus b. thalamus c. amygdala d. cerebral cortex 622 15 • Critical Thinking Questions 18. Which nerve projects to the hypothalamus to 22. A drug that affects both divisions of the autonomic indicate the level of light stimuli in the retina? system is going to bind to, or block, which type of a. glossopharyngeal neurotransmitter receptor? b. oculomotor a. nicotinic c. optic b. muscarinic d. vagus c. α-adrenergic d. β-adrenergic 19. What region of the limbic lobe is responsible
