Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


which type of a. glossopharyngeal neurotransmitter receptor? b. oculomotor a. nicotinic c. optic b. muscarinic d. vagus c. α-adrenergic d. β-adrenergic 19. What region of the limbic lobe is responsible for generating stress responses via the 23. A drug is called an agonist if it ________. hypothalamus? a. blocks a receptor a. hippocampus b. interferes with neurotransmitter reuptake b. amygdala c. acts like the endogenous neurotransmitter by c. mammillary bodies binding to its receptor d. prefrontal cortex d. blocks the voltage-gated calcium ion channel 20. What is another name for the preganglionic 24. Which type of drug would be an antidote to sympathetic fibers that project to the heart? atropine poisoning? a. solitary tract a. nicotinic agonist b. vasomotor nerve b. anticholinergic c. vagus nerve c. muscarinic agonist d. cardiac accelerator nerve d. α-blocker 21. What central fiber tract connects forebrain and 25. Which kind of drug would have anti-anxiety brain stem structures with the hypothalamus? effects? a. cardiac accelerator nerve a. nicotinic agonist b. medial forebrain bundle b. anticholinergic c. dorsal longitudinal fasciculus c. muscarinic agonist d. corticospinal tract d. α-blocker 26. Which type of drug could be used to treat asthma by opening airways wider? a. sympatholytic drug b. sympathomimetic drug c. anticholinergic drug d. parasympathomimetic drug Critical Thinking Questions 27. In the context of a lioness hunting on the 30. Medical practice is paying more attention to the savannah, why would the sympathetic systemnot autonomic system in considering disease states. activate the digestive system? Why would autonomic tone be important in 28. A target effector, such as the heart, receives input considering cardiovascular disease? from the sympathetic and parasympathetic 31. Horner’s syndrome is a condition that presents systems. What is the actual difference between with changes in one eye, such as pupillary the sympathetic and parasympathetic divisions at constriction and dropping of eyelids, as well as the level of those connections (i.e., at the decreased sweating in the face. Why could a synapse)? tumor in the thoracic cavity have an effect on 29. Damage to internal organs will present as pain these autonomic functions? associated with a particular surface area of the 32. The cardiovascular center is responsible for body. Why would something like irritation to the regulating the heart and blood vessels through diaphragm, which is between the thoracic and homeostatic mechanisms. What tone does each abdominal cavities, feel like pain in the shoulder component of
