Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


regulating the heart and blood vessels through diaphragm, which is between the thoracic and homeostatic mechanisms. What tone does each abdominal cavities, feel like pain in the shoulder component of the cardiovascular system have? or neck? What connections does the cardiovascular center invoke to keep these two systems in their resting tone? Access for free at openstax.org 15 • Critical Thinking Questions 623 33. Why does smoking increase the risk of heart 34. Why might topical, cosmetic application of disease? Provide two reasons based on autonomic atropine or scopolamine from the belladonna function. plant not cause fatal poisoning, as would occur with ingestion of the plant? 624 15 • Critical Thinking Questions Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 16 The Neurological Exam Figure16.1 Neurological ExamHealth care professionals, such as this air force nurse, can rapidly assess the neurological functions of a patient using the neurological exam. One part of the exam is the inspection of the oral cavity and pharynx, which enables the doctor to not only inspect the tissues for signs of infection, but also provides a means to test the functions of the cranial nerves associated with the oral cavity. (credit: U.S. Department of Defense / AMISOM Public Information/Flickr) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Describe the major sections of the neurological exam • Outline the benefits of rapidly assessing neurological function • Relate anatomical structures of the nervous system to specific functions • Diagram the connections of the nervous system to the musculature and integument involved in primary sensorimotor responses • Compare and contrast the somatic and visceral reflexes with respect to how they are assessed through the neurological exam INTRODUCTION A man arrives at the hospital after feeling faint and complaining of a “pins-and-needles” feeling all along one side of his body. The most likely explanation is that he has suffered a stroke, which has caused a loss of oxygen to a particular part of the central nervous system (CNS). The problem is finding where in the entire nervous system the stroke has occurred. By checking reflexes, sensory responses, and motor control, a health care provider can focus on what abilities the patient may have lost as a result of the stroke and can use this information to determine where the injury occurred. In the emergency department of the hospital, this kind of rapid assessment of neurological function is key
