Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


majority of electrochemical signaling in the body, but the use of those signals is different in various regions. The nervous system is made up of the brain and spinal cord as the central organs, and the ganglia and nerves as organs in the periphery. The brain and spinal cord can be thought of as a collection of smaller organs, most of which would be the nuclei (such as the oculomotor nuclei), but white matter structures play an important role (such as the corpus callosum). Studying the nervous system requires an understanding of the varied physiology of the nervous system. For example, the hypothalamus plays a very different role than the visual cortex. The neurological exam provides a way to elicit behavior that represents those varied functions. 16.1 Overview of the Neurological Exam LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • List the major sections of the neurological exam • Explain the connection between location and function in the nervous system • Explain the benefit of a rapid assessment for neurological function in a clinical setting • List the causes of neurological deficits • Describe the different ischemic events in the nervous system Theneurological examis a clinical assessment tool used to determine what specific parts of the CNS are affected by damage or disease. It can be performed in a short time—sometimes as quickly as 5 minutes—to establish neurological function. In the emergency department, this rapid assessment can make the difference with respect to proper treatment and the extent of recovery that is possible. The exam is a series of subtests separated into five major sections. The first of these is themental status exam, which assesses the higher cognitive functions such as memory, orientation, and language. Then there is thecranial nerve exam, which tests the function of the 12 cranial nerves and, therefore, the central and peripheral structures associated with them. The cranial nerve exam tests the sensory and motor functions of each of the nerves, as applicable. Two major sections, thesensory examand themotor exam, test the sensory and motor functions associated with spinal nerves. Finally, thecoordination examtests the ability to perform complex and coordinated movements. Thegait exam, which is often considered a sixth major exam, specifically assesses the motor function of walking and can be considered part of the coordination exam because walking is a coordinated movement. Neuroanatomy and the Neurological Exam Localization of
