Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


• Chapter Review 655 disruption of blood flow to the brain in which vestibulocerebellum flocculonodular lobe of the symptoms occur rapidly but last only a short time cerebellum named for the vestibular input from the vermis prominent ridge along the midline of the eighth cranial nerve cerebellum that is referred to as the Weber test use of a tuning fork to test the laterality of spinocerebellum hearing loss by placing it at several locations on the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) reflex based on midline of the skull connections between the vestibular system and the Wernicke’s area region at the posterior end of the cranial nerves of eye movements that ensures that lateral sulcus in which speech comprehension is images are stabilized on the retina as the head and localized body move Chapter Review 16.1Overview of the Neurological Exam The mental status exam addresses these cognitive abilities through a series of subtests designed to elicit The neurological exam is a clinical assessment tool to particular behaviors ascribed to these functions. The determine the extent of function from the nervous loss of neurological function can illustrate the location system. It is divided into five major sections that each of damage to the cerebrum. Memory functions are deal with a specific region of the CNS. The mental attributed to the temporal lobe, particularly the medial status exam is concerned with the cerebrum and temporal lobe structures known as the hippocampus assesses higher functions such as memory, language, and amygdala, along with the adjacent cortex. and emotion. The cranial nerve exam tests the Evidence of the importance of these structures comes functions of all of the cranial nerves and, therefore, from the side effects of a bilateral temporal lobectomy their connections to the CNS through the forebrain and that were studied in detail in patient HM. brain stem. The sensory and motor exams assess those functions as they relate to the spinal cord, as well as Losses of language and speech functions, known as the combination of the functions in spinal reflexes. The aphasias, are associated with damage to the important coordination exam targets cerebellar function in integration areas in the left hemisphere known as coordinated movements, including those functions Broca’s or Wernicke’s areas, as well as the connections associated with gait. in the white matter between them. Different types of aphasia are named for the particular structures that Damage to and disease of the
