Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


well as the connections associated with gait. in the white matter between them. Different types of aphasia are named for the particular structures that Damage to and disease of the nervous system lead to are damaged. Assessment of the functions of the loss of function. The location of the injury will sensorium includes praxis and gnosis. The subtests correspond to the functional loss, as suggested by the related to these functions depend on multimodal principle of localization of function. The neurological integration, as well as language-dependent processing. exam provides the opportunity for a clinician to determine where damage has occurred on the basis of The prefrontal cortex contains structures important for the function that is lost. Damage from acute injuries planning, judgment, reasoning, and working memory. such as strokes may result in specific functions being Damage to these areas can result in changes to lost, whereas broader effects in infection or personality, mood, and behavior. The famous case of developmental disorders may result in general losses Phineas Gage suggests a role for this cortex in across an entire section of the neurological exam. personality, as does the outdated practice of prefrontal lobectomy. 16.2The Mental Status Exam 16.3The Cranial Nerve Exam The cerebrum, particularly the cerebral cortex, is the location of important cognitive functions that are the The cranial nerves can be separated into four major focus of the mental status exam. The regionalization of groups associated with the subtests of the cranial the cortex, initially described on the basis of nerve exam. First are the sensory nerves, then the anatomical evidence of cytoarchitecture, reveals the nerves that control eye movement, the nerves of the distribution of functionally distinct areas. Cortical oral cavity and superior pharynx, and the nerve that regions can be described as primary sensory or motor controls movements of the neck. areas, association areas, or multimodal integration The olfactory, optic, and vestibulocochlear nerves are areas. The functions attributed to these regions include strictly sensory nerves for smell, sight, and balance attention, memory, language, speech, sensation, and hearing, whereas the trigeminal, facial, and judgment, and abstract reasoning. glossopharyngeal nerves carry somatosensation of the 656 16 • Chapter Review face, and taste—separated between the anterior two- even in connections to the cerebral cortex. thirds of the tongue and the posterior one-third. Motor tests focus on the function of the muscles and Special senses are tested by presenting the particular the
