Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the cerebral cortex. thirds of the tongue and the posterior one-third. Motor tests focus on the function of the muscles and Special senses are tested by presenting the particular the connections of the descending motor pathway. stimuli to each receptive organ. General senses can be Muscle tone and strength are tested for upper and tested through sensory discrimination of touch versus lower extremities. Input to the muscles comes from painful stimuli. the descending cortical input of upper motor neurons The oculomotor, trochlear, and abducens nerves and the direct innervation of lower motor neurons. control the extraocular muscles and are connected by Reflexes can either be based on deep stimulation of the medial longitudinal fasciculus to coordinate gaze. tendons or superficial stimulation of the skin. The Testing conjugate gaze is as simple as having the presence of reflexive contractions helps to differentiate patient follow a visual target, like a pen tip, through the motor disorders between the upper and lower motor visual field ending with an approach toward the face to neurons. The specific signs associated with motor test convergence and accommodation. Along with the disorders can establish the difference further, based on vestibular functions of the eighth nerve, the vestibulo- the type of paralysis, the state of muscle tone, and ocular reflex stabilizes gaze during head movements by specific indicators such as pronator drift or the coordinating equilibrium sensations with the eye Babinski sign. movement systems. 16.5The Coordination and Gait Exams The trigeminal nerve controls the muscles of chewing, which are tested for stretch reflexes. Motor functions of The cerebellum is an important part of motor function the facial nerve are usually obvious if facial expressions in the nervous system. It apparently plays a role in are compromised, but can be tested by having the procedural learning, which would include motor skills patient raise their eyebrows, smile, and frown. such as riding a bike or throwing a football. The basis Movements of the tongue, soft palate, or superior for these roles is likely to be tied into the role the pharynx can be observed directly while the patient cerebellum plays as a comparator for voluntary swallows, while the gag reflex is elicited, or while the movement. patient says repetitive consonant sounds. The motor The motor commands from the cerebral hemispheres control of the gag reflex is largely controlled by fibers in travel along the corticospinal pathway, which passes the vagus
