Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


sounds. The motor The motor commands from the cerebral hemispheres control of the gag reflex is largely controlled by fibers in travel along the corticospinal pathway, which passes the vagus nerve and constitutes a test of that nerve through the pons. Collateral branches of these fibers because the parasympathetic functions of that nerve synapse on neurons in the pons, which then project are involved in visceral regulation, such as regulating into the cerebellar cortex through the middle cerebellar the heartbeat and digestion. peduncles. Ascending sensory feedback, entering Movement of the head and neck using the through the inferior cerebellar peduncles, provides sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles is information about motor performance. The cerebellar controlled by the accessory nerve. Flexing of the neck cortex compares the command to the actual and strength testing of those muscles reviews the performance and can adjust the descending input to function of that nerve. compensate for any mismatch. The output from deep cerebellar nuclei projects through the superior 16.4The Sensory and Motor Exams cerebellar peduncles to initiate descending signals The sensory and motor exams assess function related from the red nucleus to the spinal cord. to the spinal cord and the nerves connected to it. The primary role of the cerebellum in relation to the Sensory functions are associated with the dorsal spinal cord is through the spinocerebellum; it controls regions of the spinal cord, whereas motor function is posture and gait with significant input from the associated with the ventral side. Localizing damage to vestibular system. Deficits in cerebellar function result the spinal cord is related to assessments of the in ataxias, or a specific kind of movement disorder. The peripheral projections mapped to dermatomes. root cause of the ataxia may be the sensory Sensory tests address the various submodalities of the input—either the proprioceptive input from the spinal somatic senses: touch, temperature, vibration, pain, cord or the equilibrium input from the vestibular and proprioception. Results of the subtests can point to system, or direct damage to the cerebellum by stroke, trauma in the spinal cord gray matter, white matter, or trauma, hereditary factors, or toxins. Access for free at openstax.org 16 • Interactive Link Questions 657 Interactive Link Questions 1. Watch thisvideo( 4. Watch thevideo( that provides a demonstration of the neurological titled “The Man With Two Brains” to see the exam—a series of tests that can be performed neuroscientist Michael Gazzaniga introduce a
