Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


thevideo( that provides a demonstration of the neurological titled “The Man With Two Brains” to see the exam—a series of tests that can be performed neuroscientist Michael Gazzaniga introduce a rapidly when a patient is initially brought into an patient he has worked with for years who has had emergency department. The exam can be repeated his corpus callosum cut, separating his two cerebral on a regular basis to keep a record of how and if hemispheres. A few tests are run to demonstrate neurological function changes over time. In what how this manifests in tests of cerebral function. order were the sections of the neurological exam Unlike normal people, this patient can perform two tested in this video, and which section seemed to independent tasks at the same time because the be left out? lines of communication between the right and left 2. Watch thisvideo( sides of his brain have been removed. Whereas a neuroexam2)for an introduction to the neurological person with an intact corpus callosum cannot exam. Studying the neurological exam can give overcome the dominance of one hemisphere over insight into how structure and function in the the other, this patient can. If the left cerebral nervous system are interdependent. This is a tool hemisphere is dominant in the majority of people, both in the clinic and in the classroom, but for why would right-handedness be most common? different reasons. In the clinic, this is a powerful but 5. Watch this shortvideo( simple tool to assess a patient’s neurological facialnerve)to see an examination of the facial function. In the classroom, it is a different way to nerve using some simple tests. The facial nerve think about the nervous system. Though medical controls the muscles of facial expression. Severe technology provides noninvasive imaging and real- deficits will be obvious in watching someone use time functional data, the presenter says these those muscles for normal control. One side of the cannot replace the history at the core of the face might not move like the other side. But medical examination. What does history mean in directed tests, especially for contraction against the context of medical practice? resistance, require a formal testing of the muscles. 3. Read thisarticle( The muscles of the upper and lower face need to be learn about a young man who texts his fiancée in a tested. The strength test in this video involves the panic
