Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


of the upper and lower face need to be learn about a young man who texts his fiancée in a tested. The strength test in this video involves the panic as he finds that he is having trouble patient squeezing her eyes shut and the examiner remembering things. At the hospital, a neurologist trying to pry her eyes open. Why does the examiner administers the mental status exam, which is ask her to try a second time? mostly normal except for the three-word recall test. 6. Watch thisvideo( The young man could not recall them even 30 see a quick demonstration of two-point seconds after hearing them and repeating them discrimination. Touching a specialized caliper to the back to the doctor. An undiscovered mass in the surface of the skin will measure the distance mediastinum region was found to be Hodgkin’s between two points that are perceived as distinct lymphoma, a type of cancer that affects the stimuli versus a single stimulus. The patient keeps immune system and likely caused antibodies to their eyes closed while the examiner switches attack the nervous system. The patient eventually between using both points of the caliper or just one. regained his ability to remember, though the events The patient then must indicate whether one or two in the hospital were always elusive. Considering stimuli are in contact with the skin. Why is the that the effects on memory were temporary, but distance between the caliper points closer on the resulted in the loss of the specific events of the fingertips as opposed to the palm of the hand? And hospital stay, what regions of the brain were likely what do you think the distance would be on the to have been affected by the antibodies and what arm, or the shoulder? type of memory does that represent? 658 16 • Review Questions 7. Watch thisvideo( 8. Watch this shortvideo( to see how to test reflexes in the abdomen. Testing stationtest)to see a test for station. Station refers reflexes of the trunk is not commonly performed in to the position a person adopts when they are the neurological exam, but if findings suggest a standing still. The examiner would look for issues problem with the thoracic segments of the spinal with balance, which coordinates proprioceptive, cord, a series of superficial reflexes of the abdomen vestibular, and visual information in the cerebellum. can localize function
