Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the thoracic segments of the spinal with balance, which coordinates proprioceptive, cord, a series of superficial reflexes of the abdomen vestibular, and visual information in the cerebellum. can localize function to those segments. If To test the ability of a subject to maintain balance, contraction is not observed when the skin lateral to asking them to stand or hop on one foot can be the umbilicus (belly button) is stimulated, what more demanding. The examiner may also push the level of the spinal cord may be damaged? subject to see if they can maintain balance. An abnormal finding in the test of station is if the feet are placed far apart. Why would a wide stance suggest problems with cerebellar function? Review Questions 9. Which major section of the neurological exam is 14. Which of the following could be elements of most likelyto reveal damage to the cerebellum? cytoarchitecture, as related to Brodmann’s a. cranial nerve exam microscopic studies of the cerebral cortex? b. mental status exam a. connections to the cerebellum c. sensory exam b. activation by visual stimuli d. coordination exam c. number of neurons per square millimeter d. number of gyri or sulci 10. What function wouldmost likelybe affected by a restriction of a blood vessel in the cerebral cortex? 15. Which of the following could be a multimodal a. language integrative area? b. gait a. primary visual cortex c. facial expressions b. premotor cortex d. knee-jerk reflex c. hippocampus d. Wernicke’s area 11. Which major section of the neurological exam includes subtests that are sometimes considered 16. Which is an example of episodic memory? a separate set of tests concerned with walking? a. how to bake a cake a. mental status exam b. your last birthday party b. cranial nerve exam c. how old you are c. coordination exam d. needing to wear an oven mitt to take a cake d. sensory exam out of the oven 12. Memory, emotional, language, and sensorimotor 17. Which type of aphasia is more like hearing a deficits together aremost likelythe result of what foreign language spoken? kind of damage? a. receptive aphasia a. stroke b. expressive aphasia b. developmental disorder c. conductive aphasia c. whiplash d. Broca’s aphasia d. gunshot wound 18. What region of the cerebral cortex is associated 13. Where is language function localized in the with understanding language, both from another majority of people? person and
