Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


medulla c. antibiotics d. lateral column d. hereditary degeneration of the cerebellum 25. Which subtest is directed at proprioceptive 33. Which of the following functionscannotbe sensation? attributed to the cerebellum? a. two-point discrimination a. comparing motor commands and sensory b. tactile movement feedback c. vibration b. associating sensory stimuli with learned d. Romberg test behavior c. coordinating complex movements 26. What term describes the inability to lift the arm d. processing visual information above the level of the shoulder? a. paralysis b. paresis c. fasciculation d. fibrillation 660 16 • Critical Thinking Questions Critical Thinking Questions 34. Why is a rapid assessment of neurological function 39. When a patient flexes their neck, the head tips to important in an emergency situation? the right side. Also, their tongue sticks out slightly 35. How is the diagnostic category of TIA different to the left when they try to stick it straight out. from a stroke? Where is the damage to the brain stem most likely 36. A patient’s performance of the majority of the located? mental status exam subtests is in line with the 40. The location of somatosensation is based on the expected norms, but the patient cannot repeat a topographical map of sensory innervation. What string of numbers given by the examiner. What is a does this mean? likely explanation? 41. Why are upper motor neuron lesions characterized 37. A patient responds to the question “What is your by “spastic paralysis”? name?” with a look of incomprehension. Which of 42. Learning to ride a bike is a motor function the two major language areas is most likely dependent on the cerebellum. Why are the affected and what is the name for that type of different regions of the cerebellum involved in this aphasia? complex motor learning? 38. As a person ages, their ability to focus on near 43. Alcohol intoxication can produce slurred speech. objects (accommodation) changes. If a person is How is this related to cerebellar function? already myopic (near-sighted), why would corrective lenses not be necessary to read a book or computer screen? Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 17 The Endocrine System Figure17.1 A Child Catches a Falling LeafHormones of the endocrine system coordinate and control growth, metabolism, temperature regulation, the stress response, reproduction, and many other functions. (credit: “seenthroughmylense”/flickr.com) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Identify the contributions of the
