Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


how does the fight-or-flight response that was mentioned earlier happen so quickly if hormones are usually slower acting? It is because the two systems are connected. It is the fast action of the nervous system in response to the danger in the environment that stimulates the adrenal glands to secrete their hormones. As a result, the nervous system can cause rapid endocrine responses to keep up with sudden changes in both the external and internal environments when necessary. Endocrine and Nervous Systems Endocrine system Nervous system Signaling mechanism(s) Chemical Chemical/electrical Primary chemical signal Hormones Neurotransmitters Distance traveled Long or short Always short TABLE17.1 Access for free at openstax.org 17.1 • An Overview of the Endocrine System 663 Endocrine system Nervous system Response time Fast or slow Always fast Environment targeted Internal Internal and external TABLE17.1 Structures of the Endocrine System The endocrine system consists of cells, tissues, and organs that secrete hormones as a primary or secondary function. Theendocrine glandis the major player in this system. The primary function of these ductless glands is to secrete their hormones directly into the surrounding fluid. The interstitial fluid and the blood vessels then transport the hormones throughout the body. The endocrine system includes the pituitary, thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal, and pineal glands (Figure 17.2). Some of these glands have both endocrine and non-endocrine functions. For example, the pancreas contains cells that function in digestion as well as cells that secrete the hormones insulin and glucagon, which regulate blood glucose levels. The hypothalamus, thymus, heart, kidneys, stomach, small intestine, liver, skin, ovaries, and testes are other organs that contain cells with endocrine function. Moreover, adipose tissue has long been known to produce hormones, and recent research has revealed that even bone tissue has endocrine functions. FIGURE17.2 Endocrine System Endocrine glands and cells are located throughout the body and play an important role in homeostasis. The ductless endocrine glands are not to be confused with the body’sexocrine system, whose glands release their secretions through ducts. Examples of exocrine glands include the sebaceous and sweat glands of the skin. As just noted, the pancreas also has an exocrine function: most of its cells secrete pancreatic juice through the pancreatic 664 17 • The Endocrine System and accessory ducts to the lumen of the small intestine. Other Types of Chemical Signaling In endocrine signaling, hormones secreted into the extracellular fluid diffuse into the blood or lymph, and
