Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


uterine contractions during childbirth (posterior) Thyroxine (T ), 4 Thyroid triiodothyronine Amine Stimulate basal metabolic rate (T ) 3 Thyroid Calcitonin Peptide Reduces blood Ca2+levels Parathyroid Parathyroid Peptide Increases blood Ca2+levels hormone (PTH) Adrenal Aldosterone Steroid Increases blood Na+levels (cortex) Cortisol, Adrenal corticosterone, Steroid Increase blood glucose levels (cortex) cortisone Adrenal Epinephrine, Amine Stimulate fight-or-flight response (medulla) norepinephrine Pineal Melatonin Amine Regulates sleep cycles TABLE17.2 666 17 • The Endocrine System Endocrine Associated Chemical Effect gland hormones class Pancreas Insulin Protein Reduces blood glucose levels Pancreas Glucagon Protein Increases blood glucose levels Stimulates development of sex characteristics including a Testes Testosterone Steroid deeper voice, increased muscle mass, development of body hair, and sperm production Stimulate development of sex characteristics including the Estrogens and Ovaries Steroid development of adipose and breast tissue, and prepare the progesterone body for childbirth TABLE17.2 Types of Hormones The hormones of the human body can be divided into two major groups on the basis of their chemical structure. Hormones derived from amino acids include amines, peptides, and proteins. Those derived from lipids include steroids (Figure 17.3). These chemical groups affect a hormone’s distribution, the type of receptors it binds to, and other aspects of its function. Access for free at openstax.org 17.2 • Hormones 667 FIGURE17.3 Amine, Peptide, Protein, and Steroid Hormone Structure Amine Hormones Hormones derived from the modification of amino acids are referred to as amine hormones. Typically, the original structure of the amino acid is modified such that a –COOH, or carboxyl, group is removed, whereas the , or amine, group remains. Amine hormones are synthesized from the amino acids tryptophan or tyrosine. An example of a hormone derived from tryptophan is melatonin, which is secreted by the pineal gland and helps regulate circadian rhythm. Tyrosine derivatives include the metabolism-regulating thyroid hormones, as well as the catecholamines, such as epinephrine, norepinephrine, and dopamine. Epinephrine and norepinephrine are secreted by the adrenal medulla and play a role in the fight-or-flight response, whereas dopamine is secreted by the hypothalamus and inhibits the 668 17 • The Endocrine System release of certain anterior pituitary hormones. Peptide and Protein Hormones Whereas the amine hormones are derived from a single amino acid, peptide and protein hormones consist of multiple amino acids that link to form an amino acid chain. Peptide hormones consist of short chains of amino acids, whereas protein hormones are longer polypeptides. Both types are synthesized
