Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


must pass through the hypothalamus–pituitary complex to be translated into hormones that can initiate a response. 674 17 • The Endocrine System Thehypothalamusis a structure of the diencephalon of the brain located anterior and inferior to the thalamus (Figure 17.7). It has both neural and endocrine functions, producing and secreting many hormones. In addition, the hypothalamus is anatomically and functionally related to thepituitary gland(or hypophysis), a bean-sized organ suspended from it by a stem called theinfundibulum(or pituitary stalk). The pituitary gland is cradled within the sellaturcica of the sphenoid bone of the skull. It consists of two lobes that arise from distinct parts of embryonic tissue: the posterior pituitary (neurohypophysis) is neural tissue, whereas the anterior pituitary (also known as the adenohypophysis) is glandular tissue that develops from the primitive digestive tract. The hormones secreted by the posterior and anterior pituitary, and the intermediate zone between the lobes are summarized inTable 17.3. FIGURE17.7 Hypothalamus–Pituitary Complex The hypothalamus region lies inferior and anterior to the thalamus. It connects to the pituitary gland by the stalk-like infundibulum. The pituitary gland consists of an anterior and posterior lobe, with each lobe secreting different hormones in response to signals from the hypothalamus. Pituitary Hormones Chemical Pituitary lobe Associated hormones Effect class Anterior Growth hormone (GH) Protein Promotes growth of body tissues Promotes milk production from mammary Anterior Prolactin (PRL) Peptide glands Thyroid-stimulating hormone Stimulates thyroid hormone release from Anterior Glycoprotein (TSH) thyroid Adrenocorticotropic hormone Stimulates hormone release by adrenal Anterior Peptide (ACTH) cortex Follicle-stimulating hormone Anterior Glycoprotein Stimulates gamete production in gonads (FSH) Stimulates androgen production by Anterior Luteinizing hormone (LH) Glycoprotein gonads TABLE17.3 Access for free at openstax.org 17.3 • The Pituitary Gland and Hypothalamus 675 Chemical Pituitary lobe Associated hormones Effect class Posterior Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) Peptide Stimulates water reabsorption by kidneys Stimulates uterine contractions during Posterior Oxytocin Peptide childbirth Intermediate Melanocyte-stimulating Stimulates melanin formation in Peptide zone hormone melanocytes TABLE17.3 Posterior Pituitary The posterior pituitary is actually an extension of the neurons of the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei of the hypothalamus. The cell bodies of these regions rest in the hypothalamus, but their axons descend as the hypothalamic–hypophyseal tract within the infundibulum, and end in axon terminals that comprise the posterior pituitary (Figure 17.8). FIGURE17.8 Posterior Pituitary Neurosecretory cells in the hypothalamus release oxytocin (OT) or ADH into the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland. These hormones are stored or released
