Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the secretion of thyroid hormones by the thyroid gland. In a classic negative feedback loop, elevated levels of thyroid hormones in the bloodstream then trigger a drop in production of TRH and subsequently TSH. Adrenocorticotropic Hormone Theadrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), also called corticotropin, stimulates the adrenal cortex (the more superficial “bark” of the adrenal glands) to secrete corticosteroid hormones such as cortisol. ACTH come from a precursor molecule known as pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) which produces several biologically active molecules when cleaved, including ACTH, melanocyte-stimulating hormone, and the brain opioid peptides known as endorphins. The release of ACTH is regulated by the corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) from the hypothalamus in response to normal physiologic rhythms. A variety of stressors can also influence its release, and the role of ACTH in the stress response is discussed later in this chapter. Follicle-Stimulating Hormone and Luteinizing Hormone The endocrine glands secrete a variety of hormones that control the development and regulation of the reproductive system (these glands include the anterior pituitary, the adrenal cortex, and the gonads—the testes and the ovaries). Much of the development of the reproductive system occurs during puberty and is marked by the development of sex-specific characteristics in adolescents. Puberty is initiated by gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), a hormone produced and secreted by the hypothalamus. GnRH stimulates the anterior pituitary to secrete gonadotropins—hormones that regulate the function of the gonads. The levels of GnRH are regulated through a negative feedback loop; high levels of reproductive hormones inhibit the release of GnRH. Throughout life, gonadotropins regulate reproductive function and, in the case of females, the onset and cessation of reproductive capacity. The gonadotropins include two glycoprotein hormones:follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH)stimulates the production and maturation of sex cells, or gametes, including ova and sperm. FSH also promotes follicular growth; these follicles then release estrogens in ovaries.Luteinizing hormone (LH)triggers ovulation, as well as the production of estrogens and progesterone by the ovaries. LH stimulates production of testosterone by the testes. Prolactin As its name implies,prolactin (PRL)promotes lactation (milk production). During pregnancy, it contributes to development of the mammary glands, and after birth, it stimulates the mammary glands to produce breast milk. However, the effects of prolactin depend heavily upon the permissive effects of estrogens, progesterone, and other hormones. And as noted earlier, the let-down of milk occurs in response to stimulation from oxytocin. In non-pregnant females, prolactin secretion is inhibited by prolactin-inhibiting hormone (PIH), which is actually the
