Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


And as noted earlier, the let-down of milk occurs in response to stimulation from oxytocin. In non-pregnant females, prolactin secretion is inhibited by prolactin-inhibiting hormone (PIH), which is actually the neurotransmitter dopamine, and is released from neurons in the hypothalamus. Only during pregnancy do prolactin levels rise in response to prolactin-releasing hormone (PRH) from the hypothalamus. Intermediate Pituitary: Melanocyte-Stimulating Hormone The cells in the zone between the pituitary lobes secrete a hormone known as melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH) that is formed by cleavage of the pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) precursor protein. Local production of MSH in the skin is responsible for melanin production in response to UV light exposure. The role of MSH made by the pituitary is more complicated. For instance, people with lighter skin generally have the same amount of MSH as people with darker skin. Nevertheless, this hormone is capable of darkening of the skin by inducing melanin production in the skin’s melanocytes. People also show increased MSH production during pregnancy; in combination with estrogens, it can lead to darker skin pigmentation, especially the skin of the areolas and labia minora.Figure 17.11is a summary of the pituitary hormones and their principal effects. 680 17 • The Endocrine System FIGURE17.11 Major Pituitary Hormones Major pituitary hormones and their target organs. INTERACTIVE LINK Visit thislink( watch an animation showing the role of the hypothalamus and the pituitary gland. Which hormone is released by the pituitary to stimulate the thyroid gland? 17.4 The Thyroid Gland LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the location and anatomy of the thyroid gland • Discuss the synthesis of triiodothyronine and thyroxine • Explain the role of thyroid hormones in the regulation of basal metabolism • Identify the hormone produced by the parafollicular cells of the thyroid A butterfly-shaped organ, thethyroid glandis located anterior to the trachea, just inferior to the larynx (Figure 17.12). The medial region, called the isthmus, is flanked by wing-shaped left and right lobes. Each of the thyroid lobes are embedded with parathyroid glands, primarily on their posterior surfaces. The tissue of the thyroid gland is composed mostly of thyroid follicles. The follicles are made up of a central cavity filled with a sticky fluid called Access for free at openstax.org 17.4 • The Thyroid Gland 681 colloid. Surrounded by a wall of epithelial follicle cells, the colloid is the center of thyroid hormone production,
