Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


lysosomal enzymes break apart the thyroglobulin colloid, releasing free T and T , 3 4 which diffuse across the follicle cell membrane and enter the bloodstream. In the bloodstream, less than one percent of the circulating T and T remains unbound. This free T and T can 3 4 3 4 cross the lipid bilayer of cell membranes and be taken up by cells. The remaining 99 percent of circulating T and T 3 4 is bound to specialized transport proteins called thyroxine-binding globulins (TBGs), to albumin, or to other plasma proteins. This “packaging” prevents their free diffusion into body cells. When blood levels of T and T begin to 3 4 decline, bound T and T are released from these plasma proteins and readily cross the membrane of target cells. T 3 4 3 is more potent than T , and many cells convert T to T through the removal of an iodine atom. 4 4 3 Regulation of TH Synthesis The release of T and T from the thyroid gland is regulated by thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). As shown in 3 4 Figure 17.13, low blood levels of T and T stimulate the release of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) from the 3 4 hypothalamus, which triggers secretion of TSH from the anterior pituitary. In turn, TSH stimulates the thyroid gland to secrete T and T . The levels of TRH, TSH, T , and T are regulated by a negative feedback system in which 3 4 3 4 increasing levels of T and T decrease the production and secretion of TSH. 3 4 Access for free at openstax.org 17.4 • The Thyroid Gland 683 FIGURE17.13 Classic Negative Feedback Loop A classic negative feedback loop controls the regulation of thyroid hormone levels. Functions of Thyroid Hormones The thyroid hormones, T and T , are often referred to as metabolic hormones because their levels influence the 3 4 body’s basal metabolic rate, the amount of energy used by the body at rest. When T and T bind to intracellular 3 4 receptors located on the mitochondria, they cause an increase in nutrient breakdown and the use of oxygen to produce ATP. In addition, T and T initiate the transcription of genes involved in glucose oxidation. Although these 3 4 mechanisms prompt cells to produce more ATP, the process is inefficient, and an abnormally increased level of heat is released as a byproduct
