Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the thyroid gland follicles, increasing their deposits of colloid. The accumulation of colloid increases the overall size of the thyroid gland, a condition called agoiter(Figure 17.14). A goiter is only a visible indication of the deficiency. Other iodine deficiency disorders include impaired growth and development, decreased fertility, and prenatal and infant death. Moreover, iodine deficiency is the primary cause of preventable intellectual disabilies worldwide.Neonatal hypothyroidism(cretinism) is characterized by cognitive deficits, short stature, and sometimes deafness and muteness in children and adults born to mothers who were iodine-deficient during pregnancy. FIGURE17.14 Goiter (credit: “Almazi”/Wikimedia Commons) In areas of the world with access to iodized salt, dietary deficiency is rare. Instead, inflammation of the thyroid gland is the more common cause of low blood levels of thyroid hormones. Calledhypothyroidism, the condition is characterized by a low metabolic rate, weight gain, cold extremities, constipation, reduced libido, menstrual irregularities, and reduced mental activity. In contrast,hyperthyroidism—an abnormally elevated blood level of thyroid hormones—is often caused by a pituitary or thyroid tumor. In Graves’ disease, the hyperthyroid state results from an autoimmune reaction in which antibodies overstimulate the follicle cells of the thyroid gland. Hyperthyroidism can lead to an increased metabolic rate, excessive body heat and sweating, diarrhea, weight loss, tremors, and increased heart rate. The person’s eyes may bulge (called exophthalmos) as antibodies produce inflammation in the soft tissues of the orbits. The person may also develop a goiter. Calcitonin The thyroid gland also secretes a hormone calledcalcitoninthat is produced by the parafollicular cells (also called C cells) that stud the tissue between distinct follicles. Calcitonin is released in response to a rise in blood calcium Access for free at openstax.org 17.5 • The Parathyroid Glands 685 levels. It appears to have a function in decreasing blood calcium concentrations by: • Inhibiting the activity of osteoclasts, bone cells that release calcium into the circulation by degrading bone matrix • Increasing osteoblastic activity • Decreasing calcium absorption in the intestines • Increasing calcium loss in the urine However, these functions are usually not significant in maintaining calcium homeostasis, so the importance of calcitonin is not entirely understood. Pharmaceutical preparations of calcitonin are sometimes prescribed to reduce osteoclast activity in people with osteoporosis and to reduce the degradation of cartilage in people with osteoarthritis. The hormones secreted by thyroid are summarized inTable 17.4. Thyroid Hormones Associated hormones Chemical class Effect Thyroxine (T ), triiodothyronine (T ) Amine
