Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


degradation of cartilage in people with osteoarthritis. The hormones secreted by thyroid are summarized inTable 17.4. Thyroid Hormones Associated hormones Chemical class Effect Thyroxine (T ), triiodothyronine (T ) Amine Stimulate basal metabolic rate 4 3 Calcitonin Peptide Reduces blood Ca2+levels TABLE17.4 Of course, calcium is critical for many other biological processes. It is a second messenger in many signaling pathways, and is essential for muscle contraction, nerve impulse transmission, and blood clotting. Given these roles, it is not surprising that blood calcium levels are tightly regulated by the endocrine system. The organs involved in the regulation are the parathyroid glands. 17.5 The Parathyroid Glands LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the location and structure of the parathyroid glands • Describe the hormonal control of blood calcium levels • Discuss the physiological response of parathyroid dysfunction Theparathyroid glandsare tiny, round structures usually found embedded in the posterior surface of the thyroid gland (Figure 17.15). A thick connective tissue capsule separates the glands from the thyroid tissue. Most people have four parathyroid glands, but occasionally there are more in tissues of the neck or chest. The function of one type of parathyroid cells, the oxyphil cells, is not clear. The primary functional cells of the parathyroid glands are the chief cells. These epithelial cells produce and secrete theparathyroid hormone (PTH), the major hormone involved in the regulation of blood calcium levels. FIGURE17.15 Parathyroid Glands The small parathyroid glands are embedded in the posterior surface of the thyroid gland. LM × 760. 686 17 • The Endocrine System (Micrograph provided by the Regents of University of Michigan Medical School © 2012) INTERACTIVE LINK View theUniversity of Michigan WebScope( explore the tissue sample in greater detail. The parathyroid glands produce and secrete PTH, a peptide hormone, in response to low blood calcium levels (Figure 17.16). PTH secretion causes the release of calcium from the bones by stimulating osteoclasts, which secrete enzymes that degrade bone and release calcium into the interstitial fluid. PTH also inhibits osteoblasts, the cells involved in bone deposition, thereby sparing blood calcium. PTH causes increased reabsorption of calcium (and magnesium) in the kidney tubules from the urine filtrate. In addition, PTH initiates the production of the steroid hormone calcitriol (also known as 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D), which is the active form of vitamin D , in the kidneys. 3 Calcitriol then stimulates increased
