Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


initiates the production of the steroid hormone calcitriol (also known as 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D), which is the active form of vitamin D , in the kidneys. 3 Calcitriol then stimulates increased absorption of dietary calcium by the intestines. A negative feedback loop regulates the levels of PTH, with rising blood calcium levels inhibiting further release of PTH. Access for free at openstax.org 17.5 • The Parathyroid Glands 687 FIGURE17.16 Parathyroid Hormone in Maintaining Blood Calcium Homeostasis Parathyroid hormone increases blood calcium levels when they drop too low. Conversely, calcitonin, which is released from the thyroid gland, decreases blood calcium levels when they become too high. These two mechanisms constantly maintain blood calcium concentration at homeostasis. Abnormally high activity of the parathyroid gland can causehyperparathyroidism, a disorder caused by an overproduction of PTH that results in excessive calcium reabsorption from bone. Hyperparathyroidism can significantly decrease bone density, leading to spontaneous fractures or deformities. As blood calcium levels rise, cell membrane permeability to sodium is decreased, and the responsiveness of the nervous system is reduced. At the same time, calcium deposits may collect in the body’s tissues and organs, impairing their functioning. In contrast, abnormally low blood calcium levels may be caused by parathyroid hormone deficiency, called hypoparathyroidism, which may develop following injury or surgery involving the thyroid gland. Low blood calcium increases membrane permeability to sodium, resulting in muscle twitching, cramping, spasms, or convulsions. Severe deficits can paralyze muscles, including those involved in breathing, and can be fatal. When blood calcium levels are high, calcitonin is produced and secreted by the parafollicular cells of the thyroid 688 17 • The Endocrine System gland. As discussed earlier, calcitonin inhibits the activity of osteoclasts, reduces the absorption of dietary calcium in the intestine, and signals the kidneys to reabsorb less calcium, resulting in larger amounts of calcium excreted in the urine. 17.6 The Adrenal Glands LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the location and structure of the adrenal glands • Identify the hormones produced by the adrenal cortex and adrenal medulla, and summarize their target cells and effects Theadrenal glandsare wedges of glandular and neuroendocrine tissue adhering to the top of the kidneys by a fibrous capsule (Figure 17.17). The adrenal glands have a rich blood supply and experience one of the highest rates of blood flow in the body. They are served by several
