Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


stresses include the perception of a physical threat, a fight with a loved one, or just a bad day at school. The body responds in different ways to short-term stress and long-term stress following a pattern known as the Access for free at openstax.org 17.6 • The Adrenal Glands 689 general adaptation syndrome (GAS). Stage one of GAS is called thealarm reaction. This is short-term stress, the fight-or-flight response, mediated by the hormones epinephrine and norepinephrine from the adrenal medulla via the SAM pathway. Their function is to prepare the body for extreme physical exertion. Once this stress is relieved, the body quickly returns to normal. The section on the adrenal medulla covers this response in more detail. If the stress is not soon relieved, the body adapts to the stress in the second stage called thestage of resistance. If a person is starving for example, the body may send signals to the gastrointestinal tract to maximize the absorption of nutrients from food. If the stress continues for a longer term however, the body responds with symptoms quite different than the fight- or-flight response. During thestage of exhaustion, individuals may begin to suffer depression, the suppression of their immune response, severe fatigue, or even a fatal heart attack. These symptoms are mediated by the hormones of the adrenal cortex, especially cortisol, released as a result of signals from the HPA axis. Adrenal hormones also have several non–stress-related functions, including the increase of blood sodium and glucose levels, which will be described in detail below. Adrenal Cortex The adrenal cortex consists of multiple layers of lipid-storing cells that occur in three structurally distinct regions. Each of these regions produces different hormones. INTERACTIVE LINK Visit thislink( view an animation describing the location and function of the adrenal glands. Which hormone produced by the adrenal glands is responsible for the mobilization of energy stores? Hormones of the Zona Glomerulosa The most superficial region of the adrenal cortex is the zona glomerulosa, which produces a group of hormones collectively referred to asmineralocorticoidsbecause of their effect on body minerals, especially sodium and potassium. These hormones are essential for fluid and electrolyte balance. Aldosteroneis the major mineralocorticoid. It is important in the regulation of the concentration of sodium and potassium ions in urine, sweat, and saliva. For example, it is released in response to elevated blood K+, low blood Na+, low blood pressure, or low blood
