Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


symphysis in preparation for childbirth. The hormones controlling reproduction are summarized in Table 17.6. Reproductive Hormones Associated Chemical Gonad Effect hormones class Stimulates development of secondary sex characteristics and Testes Testosterone Steroid sperm production Testes Inhibin Protein Inhibits FSH release from pituitary Estrogens and Stimulate development of secondary sex characteristics and Ovaries Steroid progesterone prepare the body for childbirth Human chorionic Promotes progesterone synthesis during pregnancy and inhibits Placenta Protein gonadotropin immune response against fetus TABLE17.6 Access for free at openstax.org 17.9 • The Endocrine Pancreas 693 Everyday Connection Anabolic Steroids The endocrine system can be exploited for illegal or unethical purposes. A prominent example of this is the use of steroid drugs by professional athletes. Commonly used for performance enhancement, anabolic steroids are synthetic versions of the sex hormone, testosterone. By boosting natural levels of this hormone, athletes experience increased muscle mass. Synthetic versions of human growth hormone are also used to build muscle mass. The use of performance-enhancing drugs is banned by all major collegiate and professional sports organizations in the United States because they impart an unfair advantage to athletes who take them. In addition, the drugs can cause significant and dangerous side effects. For example, anabolic steroid use can increase cholesterol levels, raise blood pressure, and damage the liver. Altered testosterone levels (both too low or too high) have been implicated in causing structural damage to the heart, and increasing the risk for cardiac arrhythmias, heart attacks, congestive heart failure, and sudden death. Paradoxically, steroids can have effects, including shriveled testicles and enlarged breast tissue. In females, their use can cause effects such as an enlarged clitoris and growth of facial hair. In all people, their use can promote increased aggression (commonly known as “roid- rage”), depression, sleep disturbances, severe acne, and infertility. 17.9 The Endocrine Pancreas LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the location and structure of the pancreas, and the morphology and function of the pancreatic islets • Compare and contrast the functions of insulin and glucagon Thepancreasis a long, slender organ, most of which is located posterior to the bottom half of the stomach (Figure 17.18). Although it is primarily an exocrine gland, secreting a variety of digestive enzymes, the pancreas has an endocrine function. Itspancreatic islets—clusters of cells formerly known as the islets of Langerhans—secrete the hormones glucagon, insulin, somatostatin, and pancreatic polypeptide
