Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


vitamin D have been associated with increased risks of cancer, severe asthma, and multiple sclerosis. Vitamin D deficiency in children causes rickets, and in adults, osteomalacia—both of which are characterized by bone deterioration. Access for free at openstax.org 17.10 • Organs with Secondary Endocrine Functions 699 Thymus Thethymusis an organ of the immune system that is larger and more active during infancy and early childhood, and begins to atrophy as we age. Its endocrine function is the production of a group of hormones calledthymosinsthat contribute to the development and differentiation of T lymphocytes, which are immune cells. Although the role of thymosins is not yet well understood, it is clear that they contribute to the immune response. Thymosins have been found in tissues other than the thymus and have a wide variety of functions, so the thymosins cannot be strictly categorized as thymic hormones. Liver The liver is responsible for secreting at least four important hormones or hormone precursors: insulin-like growth factor (somatomedin), angiotensinogen, thrombopoietin, and hepcidin. Insulin-like growth factor-1 is the immediate stimulus for growth in the body, especially of the bones. Angiotensinogen is the precursor to angiotensin, mentioned earlier, which increases blood pressure. Thrombopoietin stimulates the production of the blood’s platelets. Hepcidins block the release of iron from cells in the body, helping to regulate iron homeostasis in our body fluids. The major hormones of these other organs are summarized inTable 17.8. Organs with Secondary Endocrine Functions and Their Major Hormones Organ Major hormones Effects Reduces blood volume, blood pressure, and Heart Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) Na+concentration Gastrointestinal Aid digestion of food and buffering of Gastrin, secretin, and cholecystokinin tract stomach acids Gastrointestinal Glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide Stimulate beta cells of the pancreas to tract (GIP) and glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) release insulin Kidneys Renin Stimulates release of aldosterone Kidneys Calcitriol Aids in the absorption of Ca2+ Triggers the formation of red blood cells in Kidneys Erythropoietin the bone marrow Inhibits production of calcitriol and increases Skeleton FGF23 phosphate excretion Skeleton Osteocalcin Increases insulin production Adipose tissue Leptin Promotes satiety signals in the brain Adipose tissue Adiponectin Reduces insulin resistance Skin Cholecalciferol Modified to form vitamin D Thymus (and Among other things, aids in the development Thymosins other organs) of T lymphocytes of the immune system TABLE17.8 700 17 • The Endocrine System Organ Major hormones Effects Liver Insulin-like growth factor-1 Stimulates bodily growth Liver Angiotensinogen Raises blood pressure
