Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


gradually causes a decrease in estrogen and progesterone levels, leading to menopause and the inability to reproduce. Low levels of estrogens and progesterone are also associated with some disease states, such as osteoporosis, atherosclerosis, and hyperlipidemia, or abnormal blood lipid levels. Testosterone levels also decline with age, a condition called andropause (or viropause); however, this decline is much less dramatic than the decline of estrogens, and much more gradual, rarely affecting sperm production until very old age. Although this means that males maintain their ability to produce offspring for decades longer than females, the quantity, quality, and motility of their sperm is often reduced. As the body ages, the thyroid gland produces less of the thyroid hormones, causing a gradual decrease in the basal metabolic rate. The lower metabolic rate reduces the production of body heat and increases levels of body fat. Parathyroid hormones, on the other hand, increase with age. This may be because of reduced dietary calcium levels, causing a compensatory increase in parathyroid hormone. However, increased parathyroid hormone levels combined with decreased levels of calcitonin (and estrogens in females) can lead to osteoporosis as PTH stimulates demineralization of bones to increase blood calcium levels. Notice that osteoporosis is common in all elderly people regardless of sex. Access for free at openstax.org 17.11 • Development and Aging of the Endocrine System 701 Increasing age also affects glucose metabolism, as blood glucose levels spike more rapidly and take longer to return to normal in the elderly. In addition, increasing glucose intolerance may occur because of a gradual decline in cellular insulin sensitivity. Almost 27 percent of Americans aged 65 and older have diabetes. 702 17 • Key Terms Key Terms acromegaly disorder in adults caused when follicles, containing the glycoprotein thyroglobulin abnormally high levels of GH trigger growth of bones cortisol glucocorticoid important in gluconeogenesis, in the face, hands, and feet the catabolism of glycogen, and downregulation of adenylyl cyclase membrane-bound enzyme that the immune system converts ATP to cyclic AMP, creating cAMP, as a cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) second result of G-protein activation messenger that, in response to adenylyl cyclase adrenal cortex outer region of the adrenal glands activation, triggers a phosphorylation cascade consisting of multiple layers of epithelial cells and delta cell minor cell type in the pancreas that capillary networks that produces mineralocorticoids secretes the hormone somatostatin and glucocorticoids diabetes mellitus condition caused by destruction or
