Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the number of hormone protein kinase enzyme that initiates a receptors, typically in response to chronically phosphorylation cascade upon activation reduced levels of a hormone second messenger molecule that initiates a signaling zona fasciculata intermediate region of the adrenal cascade in response to hormone binding on a cell cortex that produce hormones called membrane receptor and activation of a G protein glucocorticoids stage of exhaustion stage three of the general zona glomerulosa most superficial region of the adaptation syndrome; the body’s long-term adrenal cortex, which produces the hormones response to stress mediated by the hormones of the collectively referred to as mineralocorticoids adrenal cortex zona reticularis deepest region of the adrenal cortex, stage of resistance stage two of the general which produces the steroid sex hormones called adaptation syndrome; the body’s continued androgens Chapter Review 17.1An Overview of the Endocrine System stomach, and kidneys—also have hormone-secreting cells. The endocrine system consists of cells, tissues, and organs that secrete hormones critical to homeostasis. 17.2Hormones The body coordinates its functions through two major Hormones are derived from amino acids or lipids. types of communication: neural and endocrine. Neural Amine hormones originate from the amino acids communication includes both electrical and chemical tryptophan or tyrosine. Larger amino acid hormones signaling between neurons and target cells. Endocrine include peptides and protein hormones. Steroid communication involves chemical signaling via the hormones are derived from cholesterol. release of hormones into the extracellular fluid. From there, hormones diffuse into the bloodstream and may Steroid hormones and thyroid hormone are lipid travel to distant body regions, where they elicit a soluble. All other amino acid–derived hormones are response in target cells. Endocrine glands are ductless water soluble. Hydrophobic hormones are able to glands that secrete hormones. Many organs of the body diffuse through the membrane and interact with an with other primary functions—such as the heart, intracellular receptor. In contrast, hydrophilic Access for free at openstax.org 17 • Chapter Review 705 hormones must interact with cell membrane receptors. the anterior pituitary. Synthesis of the amino These are typically associated with a G protein, which acid–derived T and T hormones requires iodine. 3 4 becomes activated when the hormone binds the Insufficient amounts of iodine in the diet can lead to receptor. This initiates a signaling cascade that involves goiter, cretinism, and many other disorders. a second messenger, such as cyclic adenosine 17.5The Parathyroid Glands monophosphate (cAMP). Second messenger
