Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


lead to receptor. This initiates a signaling cascade that involves goiter, cretinism, and many other disorders. a second messenger, such as cyclic adenosine 17.5The Parathyroid Glands monophosphate (cAMP). Second messenger systems greatly amplify the hormone signal, creating a broader, Calcium is required for a variety of important more efficient, and faster response. physiologic processes, including neuromuscular functioning; thus, blood calcium levels are closely Hormones are released upon stimulation that is of regulated. The parathyroid glands are small structures either chemical or neural origin. Regulation of hormone located on the posterior thyroid gland that produce release is primarily achieved through negative parathyroid hormone (PTH), which regulates blood feedback. Various stimuli may cause the release of calcium levels. Low blood calcium levels cause the hormones, but there are three major types. Humoral production and secretion of PTH. In contrast, elevated stimuli are changes in ion or nutrient levels in the blood calcium levels inhibit secretion of PTH and blood. Hormonal stimuli are changes in hormone levels trigger secretion of the thyroid hormone calcitonin. that initiate or inhibit the secretion of another Underproduction of PTH can result in hormone. Finally, a neural stimulus occurs when a hypoparathyroidism. In contrast, overproduction of nerve impulse prompts the secretion or inhibition of a PTH can result in hyperparathyroidism. hormone. 17.6The Adrenal Glands 17.3The Pituitary Gland and Hypothalamus The adrenal glands, located superior to each kidney, The hypothalamus–pituitary complex is located in the consist of two regions: the adrenal cortex and adrenal diencephalon of the brain. The hypothalamus and the medulla. The adrenal cortex—the outer layer of the pituitary gland are connected by a structure called the gland—produces mineralocorticoids, glucocorticoids, infundibulum, which contains vasculature and nerve and androgens. The adrenal medulla at the core of the axons. The pituitary gland is divided into two distinct gland produces epinephrine and norepinephrine. structures with different embryonic origins. The posterior lobe houses the axon terminals of The adrenal glands mediate a short-term stress hypothalamic neurons. It stores and releases into the response and a long-term stress response. A perceived bloodstream two hypothalamic hormones: oxytocin threat results in the secretion of epinephrine and and antidiuretic hormone (ADH). The anterior lobe is norepinephrine from the adrenal medulla, which connected to the hypothalamus by vasculature in the mediate the fight-or-flight response. The long-term infundibulum and produces and secretes six stress response is mediated by the secretion of CRH hormones. Their secretion is regulated,
