Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


by vasculature in the mediate the fight-or-flight response. The long-term infundibulum and produces and secretes six stress response is mediated by the secretion of CRH hormones. Their secretion is regulated, however, by from the hypothalamus, which triggers ACTH, which in releasing and inhibiting hormones from the turn stimulates the secretion of corticosteroids from hypothalamus. The six anterior pituitary hormones are: the adrenal cortex. The mineralocorticoids, chiefly growth hormone (GH), thyroid-stimulating hormone aldosterone, cause sodium and fluid retention, which (TSH), adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), follicle- increases blood volume and blood pressure. stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), 17.7The Pineal Gland and prolactin (PRL). The pineal gland is an endocrine structure of the 17.4The Thyroid Gland diencephalon of the brain, and is located inferior and The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped organ located in posterior to the thalamus. It is made up of the neck anterior to the trachea. Its hormones regulate pinealocytes. These cells produce and secrete the basal metabolism, oxygen use, nutrient metabolism, hormone melatonin in response to low light levels. the production of ATP, and calcium homeostasis. They High blood levels of melatonin induce drowsiness. Jet also contribute to protein synthesis and the normal lag, caused by traveling across several time zones, growth and development of body tissues, including occurs because melatonin synthesis takes several days maturation of the nervous system, and they increase to readjust to the light-dark patterns in the new the body’s sensitivity to catecholamines. The thyroid environment. hormones triiodothyronine (T ) and thyroxine (T ) are 3 4 produced and secreted by the thyroid gland in response to thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) from 706 17 • Interactive Link Questions 17.8Gonadal and Placental Hormones target cell resistance to the effects of insulin causes diabetes mellitus, a disorder characterized by high The reproductive system is regulated by follicle- blood glucose levels. The hormone glucagon is stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone produced and secreted by the alpha cells of the (LH) produced by the anterior lobe of the pituitary pancreas in response to low blood glucose levels. gland in response to gonadotropin-releasing hormone Glucagon stimulates mechanisms that increase blood (GnRH) from the hypothalamus. FSH stimulates sperm glucose levels, such as the catabolism of glycogen into maturation, which is inhibited by the hormone inhibin. glucose. The steroid hormone testosterone, a type of androgen, is released in response to LH and is responsible for the 17.10Organs with Secondary Endocrine maturation and
