Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


by the hormone inhibin. glucose. The steroid hormone testosterone, a type of androgen, is released in response to LH and is responsible for the 17.10Organs with Secondary Endocrine maturation and maintenance of the testicular Functions reproductive system, as well as the development of Some organs have a secondary endocrine function. For secondary sex characteristics. FSH also promotes egg example, the walls of the atria of the heart produce the maturation and LH signals the secretion of the sex hormone atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), the hormones, the estrogens and progesterone. Both of gastrointestinal tract produces the hormones gastrin, these hormones are important in the development and secretin, and cholecystokinin, which aid in digestion, maintenance of the ovarian reproductive system, as and the kidneys produce erythropoietin (EPO), which well as maintaining pregnancy. The placenta develops stimulates the formation of red blood cells. Even bone, during early pregnancy, and secretes several hormones adipose tissue, and the skin have secondary endocrine important for maintaining the pregnancy. functions. 17.9The Endocrine Pancreas 17.11Development and Aging of the The pancreas has both exocrine and endocrine Endocrine System functions. The pancreatic islet cell types include alpha The endocrine system originates from all three germ cells, which produce glucagon; beta cells, which layers of the embryo, including the endoderm, produce insulin; delta cells, which produce ectoderm, and mesoderm. In general, different somatostatin; and PP cells, which produce pancreatic hormone classes arise from distinct germ layers. Aging polypeptide. Insulin and glucagon are involved in the affects the endocrine glands, potentially affecting regulation of glucose metabolism. Insulin is produced hormone production and secretion, and can cause by the beta cells in response to high blood glucose disease. The production of hormones, such as human levels. It enhances glucose uptake and utilization by growth hormone, cortisol, aldosterone, sex hormones, target cells, as well as the storage of excess glucose for and the thyroid hormones, decreases with age. later use. Dysfunction of the production of insulin or Interactive Link Questions 1. Visit thislink( 3. Visit thislink( to watch an animation of the events that occur to view an animation describing the location and when a hormone binds to a cell membrane function of the adrenal glands. Which hormone receptor. What is the secondary messenger made produced by the adrenal glands is responsible for by adenylyl cyclase during the activation of liver mobilization of energy stores? cells by epinephrine? 4. Visit thislink( 2. Visit
