Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the endocrine term stress response. system and the nervous system. 52. Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is a mood 39. Compare and contrast endocrine and exocrine disorder characterized by, among other glands. symptoms, increased appetite, sluggishness, and 40. True or false: Neurotransmitters are a special increased sleepiness. It occurs most commonly class of paracrines. Explain your answer. during the winter months, especially in regions 41. Compare and contrast the signaling events with long winter nights. Propose a role for involved with the second messengers cAMP and melatonin in SAD and a possible non-drug therapy. IP . 53. Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a disease that causes 3 42. Describe the mechanism of hormone response deterioration of the retinas of the eyes. Describe resulting from the binding of a hormone with an the impact RP would have on melatonin levels. intracellular receptor. 54. Compare and contrast the role of estrogens and 43. Compare and contrast the anatomical relationship progesterone. of the anterior and posterior lobes of the pituitary 55. Describe the role of placental secretion of relaxin gland to the hypothalamus. in preparation for childbirth. 44. Name the target tissues for prolactin. 56. What would be the physiological consequence of a 45. Explain why maternal iodine deficiency might lead disease that destroyed the beta cells of the to neurological impairment in the fetus. pancreas? 46. Define hyperthyroidism and explain why one of its 57. Why is foot care extremely important for people symptoms is weight loss. with diabetes mellitus? 47. Describe the role of negative feedback in the 58. Summarize the role of GI tract hormones following function of the parathyroid gland. a meal. 48. Explain why someone with a parathyroid gland 59. Compare and contrast the thymus gland in infancy tumor might develop kidney stones. and adulthood. 49. What are the three regions of the adrenal cortex 60. Distinguish between the effects of menopause and what hormones do they produce? and andropause on fertility. 50. If innervation to the adrenal medulla were disrupted, what would be the physiological outcome? 710 17 • Critical Thinking Questions Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 18 The Cardiovascular System: Blood Figure18.1 Blood CellsA single drop of blood contains millions of red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. One of each type is shown here, isolated from a scanning electron micrograph. CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Identify the primary
