Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


and platelets. One of each type is shown here, isolated from a scanning electron micrograph. CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Identify the primary functions of blood, its fluid and cellular components, and its physical characteristics • Identify the most important proteins and other solutes present in blood plasma • Describe the formation of the formed element components of blood • Discuss the structure and function of red blood cells and hemoglobin • Classify and characterize white blood cells • Describe the structure of platelets and explain the process of hemostasis • Explain the significance of AB and Rh blood groups in blood transfusions • Discuss a variety of blood disorders INTRODUCTION Single-celled organisms do not need blood. They obtain nutrients directly from and excrete wastes directly into their environment. The human organism cannot do that. Our large, complex bodies need blood to deliver nutrients to and remove wastes from our trillions of cells. The heart pumps blood throughout the body in a network of blood vessels. Together, these three components—blood, heart, and vessels—makes up the cardiovascular system. This chapter focuses on the medium of transport: blood. 18.1 An Overview of Blood LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Identify the primary functions of blood in transportation, defense, and maintenance of homeostasis • Name the fluid component of blood and the three major types of formed elements, and identify their relative proportions in a blood sample • Discuss the unique physical characteristics of blood • Identify the composition of blood plasma, including its most important solutes and plasma proteins Recall thatbloodis a connective tissue. Like all connective tissues, it is made up of cellular elements and an 712 18 • The Cardiovascular System: Blood extracellular matrix. The cellular elements—referred to as theformed elements—includered blood cells (RBCs), white blood cells (WBCs), and cell fragments calledplatelets. The extracellular matrix, calledplasma, makes blood unique among connective tissues because it is fluid. This fluid, which is mostly water, perpetually suspends the formed elements and enables them to circulate throughout the body within the cardiovascular system. Functions of Blood The primary function of blood is to deliver oxygen and nutrients to and remove wastes from body cells, but that is only the beginning of the story. The specific functions of blood also include defense, distribution of heat, and maintenance of homeostasis. Transportation
