Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


“true”) causes an excessive production of immature erythrocytes. Polycythemia vera can dangerously elevate the viscosity of blood, raising blood pressure and making it more difficult for the heart to pump blood throughout the body. It is a relatively rare disease that occurs more often in males than in females, and is more likely to be present in elderly patients those over 60 years of age. 18.4 Leukocytes and Platelets LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the general characteristics of leukocytes • Classify leukocytes according to their lineage, their main structural features, and their primary functions • Discuss the most common malignancies involving leukocytes • Identify the lineage, basic structure, and function of platelets Theleukocyte, commonly known as a white blood cell (or WBC), is a major component of the body’s defenses against disease. Leukocytes protect the body against invading microorganisms and body cells with mutated DNA, and they clean up debris. Platelets are essential for the repair of blood vessels when damage to them has occurred; they also provide growth factors for healing and repair. SeeFigure 18.5for a summary of leukocytes and platelets. Characteristics of Leukocytes Although leukocytes and erythrocytes both originate from hematopoietic stem cells in the bone marrow, they are very different from each other in many significant ways. For instance, leukocytes are far less numerous than erythrocytes: Typically there are only 5000 to 10,000 perµL. They are also larger than erythrocytes and are the only 728 18 • The Cardiovascular System: Blood formed elements that are complete cells, possessing a nucleus and organelles. And although there is just one type of erythrocyte, there are many types of leukocytes. Most of these types have a much shorter lifespan than that of erythrocytes, some as short as a few hours or even a few minutes in the case of acute infection. One of the most distinctive characteristics of leukocytes is their movement. Whereas erythrocytes spend their days circulating within the blood vessels, leukocytes routinely leave the bloodstream to perform their defensive functions in the body’s tissues. For leukocytes, the vascular network is simply a highway they travel and soon exit to reach their true destination. When they arrive, they are often given distinct names, such as macrophage or microglia, depending on their function. As shown inFigure 18.10, they leave the capillaries—the smallest blood vessels—or other small vessels through a process
