Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


often given distinct names, such as macrophage or microglia, depending on their function. As shown inFigure 18.10, they leave the capillaries—the smallest blood vessels—or other small vessels through a process known asemigration(from the Latin for “removal”) ordiapedesis(dia- = “through”; -pedan = “to leap”) in which they squeeze through adjacent cells in a blood vessel wall. Once they have exited the capillaries, some leukocytes will take up fixed positions in lymphatic tissue, bone marrow, the spleen, the thymus, or other organs. Others will move about through the tissue spaces very much like amoebas, continuously extending their plasma membranes, sometimes wandering freely, and sometimes moving toward the direction in which they are drawn by chemical signals. This attracting of leukocytes occurs because ofpositive chemotaxis(literally “movement in response to chemicals”), a phenomenon in which injured or infected cells and nearby leukocytes emit the equivalent of a chemical “911” call, attracting more leukocytes to the site. In clinical medicine, the differential counts of the types and percentages of leukocytes present are often key indicators in making a diagnosis and selecting a treatment. Access for free at openstax.org 18.4 • Leukocytes and Platelets 729 FIGURE18.10 Emigration Leukocytes exit the blood vessel and then move through the connective tissue of the dermis toward the site of a wound. Some leukocytes, such as the eosinophil and neutrophil, are characterized as granular leukocytes. They release chemicals from their granules that destroy pathogens; they are also capable of phagocytosis. The monocyte, an agranular leukocyte, differentiates into a macrophage that then phagocytizes the pathogens. Classification of Leukocytes When scientists first began to observe stained blood slides, it quickly became evident that leukocytes could be divided into two groups, according to whether their cytoplasm contained highly visible granules: • Granular leukocytescontain abundant granules within the cytoplasm. They include neutrophils, eosinophils, 730 18 • The Cardiovascular System: Blood and basophils (you can view their lineage from myeloid stem cells inFigure 18.4). • While granules are not totally lacking inagranular leukocytes, they are far fewer and less obvious. Agranular leukocytes include monocytes, which mature into macrophages that are phagocytic, and lymphocytes, which arise from the lymphoid stem cell line. Granular Leukocytes We will consider the granular leukocytes in order from most common to least common. All of these are produced in the red bone marrow and have a short lifespan of hours to days. They typically have a lobed nucleus and are classified
