Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


detail. The Webscope feature allows you to move the slides as you would with a mechanical stage. You can increase and decrease the magnification. There is a chance to review each of the leukocytes individually after you have attempted to identify them from the first two blood smears. In addition, there are a few multiple choice questions. Are you able to recognize and identify the various formed elements? You will need to do this is a systematic manner, scanning along the image. The standard method is to use a grid, but this is not possible with this resource. Try constructing a simple table with each leukocyte type and then making a mark for each cell type you identify. Attempt to classify at least 50 and perhaps as many as 100 different cells. Based on the percentage of cells that you count, do the numbers represent a normal blood smear or does something appear to be abnormal? 18.5 Hemostasis LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the three mechanisms involved in hemostasis • Explain how the extrinsic and intrinsic coagulation pathways lead to the common pathway, and the coagulation factors involved in each • Discuss disorders affecting hemostasis Platelets are key players inhemostasis, the process by which the body seals a ruptured blood vessel and prevents further loss of blood. Although rupture of larger vessels usually requires medical intervention, hemostasis is quite effective in dealing with small, simple wounds. There are three steps to the process: vascular spasm, the formation of a platelet plug, and coagulation (blood clotting). Failure of any of these steps will result in hemorrhage—excessive bleeding. 734 18 • The Cardiovascular System: Blood Vascular Spasm When a vessel is severed or punctured, or when the wall of a vessel is damaged, vascular spasm occurs. Invascular spasm, the smooth muscle in the walls of the vessel contracts dramatically. This smooth muscle has both circular layers; larger vessels also have longitudinal layers. The circular layers tend to constrict the flow of blood, whereas the longitudinal layers, when present, draw the vessel back into the surrounding tissue, often making it more difficult for a surgeon to locate, clamp, and tie off a severed vessel. The vascular spasm response is believed to be triggered by several chemicals called endothelins that are released by vessel-lining cells and by pain receptors in response to vessel injury.
