Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


vessel. Coagulation then enables the repair of the vessel wall once the leakage of blood has stopped. (b) The synthesis of fibrin in blood clots involves either an intrinsic pathway or an extrinsic pathway, both of which lead to a common pathway. (credit a: Kevin MacKenzie) Clotting Factors Involved in Coagulation In the coagulation cascade, chemicals calledclotting factors(or coagulation factors) prompt reactions that activate still more coagulation factors. The process is complex, but is initiated along two basic pathways: • The extrinsic pathway, which normally is triggered by trauma. • The intrinsic pathway, which begins in the bloodstream and is triggered by internal damage to the wall of the vessel. 736 18 • The Cardiovascular System: Blood Both of these merge into a third pathway, referred to as the common pathway (seeFigure 18.14b). All three pathways are dependent upon the 12 known clotting factors, including Ca2+and vitamin K (Table 18.1). Clotting factors are secreted primarily by the liver and the platelets. The liver requires the fat-soluble vitamin K to produce many of them. Vitamin K (along with biotin and folate) is somewhat unusual among vitamins in that it is not only consumed in the diet but is also synthesized by bacteria residing in the large intestine. The calcium ion, considered factor IV, is derived from the diet and from the breakdown of bone. Some recent evidence indicates that activation of various clotting factors occurs on specific receptor sites on the surfaces of platelets. The 12 clotting factors are numbered I through XIII according to the order of their discovery. Factor VI was once believed to be a distinct clotting factor, but is now thought to be identical to factor V. Rather than renumber the other factors, factor VI was allowed to remain as a placeholder and also a reminder that knowledge changes over time. Clotting Factors Factor Type of Name Source Pathway(s) number molecule Plasma I Fibrinogen Liver Common; converted into fibrin protein Plasma Common; converted into II Prothrombin Liver* protein thrombin Tissue thromboplastin or tissue Lipoprotein Damaged cells III Extrinsic factor mixture and platelets Inorganic Diet, platelets, IV Calcium ions ions in Entire process bone matrix plasma Plasma V Proaccelerin Liver, platelets Extrinsic and intrinsic protein VI Not used Not used Not used Not used Plasma VII Proconvertin Liver * Extrinsic protein Plasma Platelets and Intrinsic; deficiency results in VIII Antihemolytic factor A protein endothelial hemophilia A factor cells
