Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Not used Not used Not used Plasma VII Proconvertin Liver * Extrinsic protein Plasma Platelets and Intrinsic; deficiency results in VIII Antihemolytic factor A protein endothelial hemophilia A factor cells Antihemolytic factor B (plasma Plasma Intrinsic; deficiency results in IX Liver* thromboplastin component) protein hemophilia B Stuart–Prower factor X Protein Liver* Extrinsic and intrinsic (thrombokinase) Antihemolytic factor C (plasma Plasma Intrinsic; deficiency results in XI Liver thromboplastin antecedent) protein hemophilia C TABLE18.1*Vitamin K required. Access for free at openstax.org 18.5 • Hemostasis 737 Factor Type of Name Source Pathway(s) number molecule Plasma Intrinsic; initiates clotting in XII Hageman factor Liver protein vitro also activates plasmin Plasma Stabilizes fibrin; slows XIII Fibrin-stabilizing factor Liver, platelets protein fibrinolysis TABLE18.1*Vitamin K required. Extrinsic Pathway The quicker responding and more directextrinsic pathway(also known as thetissue factorpathway) begins when damage occurs to the surrounding tissues, such as in a traumatic injury. Upon contact with blood plasma, the damaged extravascular cells, which are extrinsic to the bloodstream, release factor III (thromboplastin). Sequentially, Ca2+then factor VII (proconvertin), which is activated by factor III, are added, forming an enzyme complex. This enzyme complex leads to activation of factor X (Stuart–Prower factor), which activates the common pathway discussed below. The events in the extrinsic pathway are completed in a matter of seconds. Intrinsic Pathway Theintrinsic pathway(also known as the contact activation pathway) is longer and more complex. In this case, the factors involved are intrinsic to (present within) the bloodstream. The pathway can be prompted by damage to the tissues, resulting from internal factors such as arterial disease; however, it is most often initiated when factor XII (Hageman factor) comes into contact with foreign materials, such as when a blood sample is put into a glass test tube. Within the body, factor XII is typically activated when it encounters negatively charged molecules, such as inorganic polymers and phosphate produced earlier in the series of intrinsic pathway reactions. Factor XII sets off a series of reactions that in turn activates factor XI (antihemolytic factor C or plasma thromboplastin antecedent) then factor IX (antihemolytic factor B or plasma thromboplasmin). In the meantime, chemicals released by the platelets increase the rate of these activation reactions. Finally, factor VIII (antihemolytic factor A) from the platelets and endothelial cells combines with factor IX (antihemolytic factor B or plasma thromboplasmin) to form an enzyme complex that activates factor X (Stuart–Prower factor or thrombokinase), leading to
