Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


regulation of pH, temperature, and other internal elements of blood are continually produced, replacing conditions. Blood is composed of formed the relatively short-lived erythrocytes, leukocytes, and elements—erythrocytes, leukocytes, and cell fragments platelets. Hemopoiesis begins in the red bone marrow, called platelets—and a fluid extracellular matrix called with hematopoietic stem cells that differentiate into plasma. More than 90 percent of plasma is water. The myeloid and lymphoid lineages. Myeloid stem cells give remainder is mostly plasma proteins—mainly albumin, rise to most of the formed elements. Lymphoid stem globulins, and fibrinogen—and other dissolved solutes cells give rise only to the various lymphocytes such as glucose, lipids, electrolytes, and dissolved designated as B and T cells, and NK cells. Hemopoietic gases. Because of the formed elements and the growth factors, including erythropoietin, plasma proteins and other solutes, blood is sticky and Access for free at openstax.org 18 • Chapter Review 747 thrombopoietin, colony-stimulating factors, and 18.5Hemostasis interleukins, promote the proliferation and Hemostasis is the physiological process by which differentiation of formed elements. bleeding ceases. Hemostasis involves three basic 18.3Erythrocytes steps: vascular spasm, the formation of a platelet plug, and coagulation, in which clotting factors promote the The most abundant formed elements in blood, formation of a fibrin clot. Fibrinolysis is the process in erythrocytes are red, biconcave disks packed with an which a clot is degraded in a healing vessel. oxygen-carrying compound called hemoglobin. The Anticoagulants are substances that oppose hemoglobin molecule contains four globin proteins coagulation. They are important in limiting the extent bound to a pigment molecule called heme, which and duration of clotting. Inadequate clotting can result contains an ion of iron. In the bloodstream, iron picks from too few platelets, or inadequate production of up oxygen in the lungs and drops it off in the tissues; clotting factors, for instance, in the genetic disorder the amino acids in hemoglobin then transport carbon hemophilia. Excessive clotting, called thrombosis, can dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs. be caused by excessive numbers of platelets. A Erythrocytes live only 120 days on average, and thus thrombus is a collection of fibrin, platelets, and must be continually replaced. Worn-out erythrocytes erythrocytes that has accumulated along the lining of a are phagocytized by macrophages and their blood vessel, whereas an embolus is a thrombus that hemoglobin is broken down. The breakdown products has broken free from the vessel wall and is circulating are
