Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


macrophages and their blood vessel, whereas an embolus is a thrombus that hemoglobin is broken down. The breakdown products has broken free from the vessel wall and is circulating are recycled or removed as wastes: Globin is broken in the bloodstream. down into amino acids for synthesis of new proteins; iron is stored in the liver or spleen or used by the bone 18.6Blood Typing marrow for production of new erythrocytes; and the Antigens are nonself molecules, usually large proteins, remnants of heme are converted into bilirubin, or other which provoke an immune response. In transfusion waste products that are taken up by the liver and reactions, antibodies attach to antigens on the surfaces excreted in the bile or removed by the kidneys. Anemia of erythrocytes and cause agglutination and hemolysis. is a deficiency of RBCs or hemoglobin, whereas ABO blood group antigens are designated A and B. polycythemia is an excess of RBCs. People with type A blood have A antigens on their 18.4Leukocytes and Platelets erythrocytes, whereas those with type B blood have B antigens. Those with AB blood have both A and B Leukocytes function in body defenses. They squeeze antigens, and those with type O blood have neither A out of the walls of blood vessels through emigration or nor B antigens. The blood plasma contains preformed diapedesis, then may move through tissue fluid or antibodies against the antigens not present on a become attached to various organs where they fight person’s erythrocytes. against pathogenic organisms, diseased cells, or other threats to health. Granular leukocytes, which include A second group of blood antigens is the Rh group, the neutrophils, eosinophils, and basophils, originate with most important of which is Rh D. People with Rh−blood myeloid stem cells, as do the agranular monocytes. do not have this antigen on their erythrocytes, whereas The other agranular leukocytes, NK cells, B cells, and T those who are Rh+do. About 85 percent of Americans cells, arise from the lymphoid stem cell line. The most are Rh+. When a person who is Rh−becomes pregnant abundant leukocytes are the neutrophils, which are with an Rh+fetus, their body may begin to produce first responders to infections, especially with bacteria. anti-Rh antibodies. If the person subsequently About 20–30 percent of all leukocytes are becomes pregnant with a second Rh+fetus and is not lymphocytes, which are critical to the body’s defense treated preventively with RhoGAM,
