Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


person subsequently About 20–30 percent of all leukocytes are becomes pregnant with a second Rh+fetus and is not lymphocytes, which are critical to the body’s defense treated preventively with RhoGAM, the fetus will be at against specific threats. Leukemia and lymphoma are risk for an antigen-antibody reaction, including malignancies involving leukocytes. Platelets are agglutination and hemolysis. This is known as fragments of cells known as megakaryocytes that dwell hemolytic disease of the newborn. within the bone marrow. While many platelets are Cross matching to determine blood type is necessary stored in the spleen, others enter the circulation and before transfusing blood, unless the patient is are essential for hemostasis; they also produce several experiencing hemorrhage that is an immediate threat growth factors important for repair and healing. to life, in which case type O−blood may be transfused. 748 18 • Interactive Link Questions Interactive Link Questions 1. Visit thissite( 3. Figure 18.13Are you able to recognize and identify for a list of normal levels established for many of the various formed elements? You will need to do the substances found in a sample of blood. Serum, this is a systematic manner, scanning along the one of the specimen types included, refers to a image. The standard method is to use a grid, but sample of plasma after clotting factors have been this is not possible with this resource. Try removed. What types of measurements are given constructing a simple table with each leukocyte for levels of glucose in the blood? type and then making a mark for each cell type you 2. Watch thisvideo( identify. Attempt to classify at least 50 and perhaps see doctors discuss the dangers of blood doping in as many as 100 different cells. Based on the sports. What are the some potential side effects of percentage of cells that you count, do the numbers blood doping? represent a normal blood smear or does something appear to be abnormal? 4. View theseanimations( coagulation)to explore the intrinsic, extrinsic, and common pathways that are involved the process of coagulation. The coagulation cascade restores hemostasis by activating coagulation factors in the presence of an injury. How does the endothelium of the blood vessel walls prevent the blood from coagulating as it flows through the blood vessels? Review Questions 5. Which of the following statements about blood is 9. Which of the following statements about true? erythropoietin is true? a.
