Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Rh+fetus patient was likely to have had increased activity of which leukocyte? a. basophils b. neutrophils c. monocytes d. natural killer cells 750 18 • Critical Thinking Questions Critical Thinking Questions 27. A patient’s hematocrit is 42 percent. 35. A patient was admitted to the burn unit the Approximately what percentage of the patient’s previous evening suffering from a severe burn blood is plasma? involving their left upper extremity and shoulder. A 28. Why would it be incorrect to refer to the formed blood test reveals that they are experiencing elements as cells? leukocytosis. Why is this an expected finding? 29. True or false: The buffy coat is the portion of a 36. A lab technician collects a blood sample in a glass blood sample that is made up of its proteins. tube. After about an hour, she harvests serum to 30. Myelofibrosis is a disorder in which inflammation continue her blood analysis. Explain what has and scar tissue formation in the bone marrow happened during the hour that the sample was in impair hemopoiesis. One sign is an enlarged the glass tube. spleen. Why? 37. Explain why administration of a thrombolytic 31. Would you expect a patient with a form of cancer agent is a first intervention for someone who has called acute myelogenous leukemia to experience suffered a thrombotic stroke. impaired production of erythrocytes, or impaired 38. Following a motor vehicle accident, a patient is production of lymphocytes? Explain your choice. rushed to the emergency department with 32. A young person has been experiencing unusually multiple traumatic injuries, causing severe heavy menstrual bleeding for several years. They bleeding. The patient’s condition is critical, and follow a strict vegan diet (no animal foods). They there is no time for determining their blood type. are is at risk for what disorder, and why? What type of blood is transfused, and why? 33. A patient has thalassemia, a genetic disorder 39. In preparation for a scheduled surgery, a patient characterized by abnormal synthesis of globin visits the hospital lab for a blood draw. The proteins and excessive destruction of technician collects a blood sample and performs a erythrocytes. This patient is jaundiced and is test to determine its type. She places a sample of found to have an excessive level of bilirubin in the patient’s blood in two wells. To the first well their blood. Explain the connection. she adds anti-A
