Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


step 5). Since the electrical stimulus begins at the apex, the contraction also begins at the apex and travels toward the base of the heart, similar to squeezing a tube of toothpaste from the bottom. This allows the blood to be pumped out of the ventricles and into the aorta and pulmonary trunk. The total time elapsed from the initiation of the impulse in the SA node until depolarization of the ventricles is approximately 225 ms. Membrane Potentials and Ion Movement in Cardiac Conductive Cells Action potentials are considerably different between cardiac conductive cells and cardiac contractive cells. While Na+and K+play essential roles, Ca2+is also critical for both types of cells. Unlike skeletal muscles and neurons, cardiac conductive cells do not have a stable resting potential. Conductive cells contain a series of sodium ion channels that allow a normal and slow influx of sodium ions that causes the membrane potential to rise slowly from an initial value of −60 mV up to about –40 mV. The resulting movement of sodium ions createsspontaneous depolarization(orprepotential depolarization). At this point, calcium ion channels open and Ca2+enters the cell, further depolarizing it at a more rapid rate until it reaches a value of approximately +15 mV. At this point, the calcium ion channels close and K+channels open, allowing outflux of K+and resulting in repolarization. When the membrane potential reaches approximately −60 mV, the K+channels close and Na+channels open, and the prepotential phase begins again. This phenomenon explains the autorhythmicity properties of cardiac muscle (Figure 19.20). FIGURE19.20 Action Potential at the SA Node The prepotential is due to a slow influx of sodium ions until the threshold is reached followed by a rapid depolarization and repolarization. The prepotential accounts for the membrane reaching threshold and initiates the spontaneous depolarization and contraction of the cell. Note the lack of a resting potential. Membrane Potentials and Ion Movement in Cardiac Contractile Cells There is a distinctly different electrical pattern involving the contractile cells. In this case, there is a rapid depolarization, followed by a plateau phase and then repolarization. This phenomenon accounts for the long refractory periods required for the cardiac muscle cells to pump blood effectively before they are capable of firing for a second time. These cardiac myocytes normally do not initiate their own electrical potential but rather wait for an impulse to reach them. Contractile cells demonstrate a much more stable resting phase than
