Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Electrocardiogram By careful placement of surface electrodes on the body, it is possible to record the complex, compound electrical signal of the heart. This tracing of the electrical signal is theelectrocardiogram (ECG), also commonly abbreviated EKG (K coming kardiology, from the German term for cardiology). Careful analysis of the ECG reveals a detailed picture of both normal and abnormal heart function, and is an indispensable clinical diagnostic tool. The standard electrocardiograph (the instrument that generates an ECG) uses 3, 5, or 12 leads. The greater the number of leads an electrocardiograph uses, the more information the ECG provides. The term “lead” may be used to refer to the cable from the electrode to the electrical recorder, but it typically describes the voltage difference between two of the electrodes. The 12-lead electrocardiograph uses 10 electrodes placed in standard locations on the patient’s skin (Figure 19.22). In continuous ambulatory electrocardiographs, the patient wears a small, portable, battery- operated device known as a Holter monitor, or simply a Holter, that continuously monitors heart electrical activity, typically for a period of 24 hours during the patient’s normal routine. Access for free at openstax.org 19.2 • Cardiac Muscle and Electrical Activity 779 FIGURE19.22 Standard Placement of ECG Leads In a 12-lead ECG, six electrodes are placed on the chest, and four electrodes are placed on the limbs. A normal ECG tracing is presented inFigure 19.23. Each component, segment, and interval is labeled and corresponds to important electrical events, demonstrating the relationship between these events and contraction in the heart. There are five prominent points on the ECG: the P wave, the QRS complex, and the T wave. The smallP wave represents the depolarization of the atria. The atria begin contracting approximately 25 ms after the start of the P wave. The largeQRS complexrepresents the depolarization of the ventricles, which requires a much stronger electrical signal because of the larger size of the ventricular cardiac muscle. The ventricles begin to contract as the QRS reaches the peak of the R wave. Lastly, theT waverepresents the repolarization of the ventricles. The repolarization of the atria occurs during the QRS complex, which masks it on an ECG. The major segments and intervals of an ECG tracing are indicated inFigure 19.23. Segments are defined as the regions between two waves. Intervals include one segment plus one or more waves. For example, the PR segment begins at the end of
