Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


atria and ventricles are relaxed (diastole). The P wave represents depolarization of the atria and is followed by atrial contraction (systole). Atrial systole extends until the QRS complex, at which point, the atria relax. The QRS complex represents depolarization of the ventricles and is followed by ventricular contraction. The T wave represents the repolarization of the ventricles and marks the beginning of ventricular relaxation. Heart Sounds One of the simplest, yet effective, diagnostic techniques applied to assess the state of a patient’s heart is auscultation using a stethoscope. In a normal, healthy heart, there are only two audibleheart sounds: S and S . S is the sound created by the 1 2 1 closing of the atrioventricular valves during ventricular contraction and is normally described as a “lub,” or first heart sound. The second heart sound, S , is the sound of the closing of the semilunar valves during ventricular diastole 2 and is described as a “dub” (Figure 19.29). In both cases, as the valves close, the openings within the atrioventricular septum guarded by the valves will become reduced, and blood flow through the opening will become more turbulent until the valves are fully closed. There is a third heart sound, S , but it is rarely heard in 3 healthy individuals. It may be the sound of blood flowing into the atria, or blood sloshing back and forth in the ventricle, or even tensing of the chordae tendineae. S may be heard in youth, some athletes, and pregnant people. 3 If the sound is heard later in life, it may indicate congestive heart failure, warranting further tests. Some cardiologists refer to the collective S , S , and S sounds as the “Kentucky gallop,” because they mimic those 1 2 3 produced by a galloping horse. The fourth heart sound, S , results from the contraction of the atria pushing blood 4 into a stiff or hypertrophic ventricle, indicating failure of the left ventricle. S occurs prior to S and the collective 4 1 sounds S , S , and S are referred to by some cardiologists as the “Tennessee gallop,” because of their similarity to 4 1 2 the sound produced by a galloping horse with a different gait. A few individuals may have both S and S , and this 3 4 combined sound is referred to as S . 7 Access for free at openstax.org
