Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


different gait. A few individuals may have both S and S , and this 3 4 combined sound is referred to as S . 7 Access for free at openstax.org 19.3 • Cardiac Cycle 787 FIGURE19.29 Heart Sounds and the Cardiac Cycle In this illustration, the x-axis reflects time with a recording of the heart sounds. The y-axis represents pressure. The termmurmuris used to describe an unusual sound coming from the heart that is caused by the turbulent flow of blood. Murmurs are graded on a scale of 1 to 6, with 1 being the most common, the most difficult sound to detect, and the least serious. The most severe is a 6. Phonocardiograms or auscultograms can be used to record both normal and abnormal sounds using specialized electronic stethoscopes. During auscultation, it is common practice for the clinician to ask the patient to breathe deeply. This procedure not only allows for listening to airflow, but it may also amplify heart murmurs. Inhalation increases blood flow into the right side of the heart and may increase the amplitude of right-sided heart murmurs. Expiration partially restricts blood flow into the left side of the heart and may amplify left-sided heart murmurs.Figure 19.30indicates proper placement of the bell of the stethoscope to facilitate auscultation. 788 19 • The Cardiovascular System: The Heart FIGURE19.30 Stethoscope Placement for Auscultation Proper placement of the bell of the stethoscope facilitates auscultation. At each of the four locations on the chest, a different valve can be heard. 19.4 Cardiac Physiology LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Relate heart rate to cardiac output • Describe the effect of exercise on heart rate • Identify cardiovascular centers and cardiac reflexes that regulate heart function • Describe factors affecting heart rate • Distinguish between positive and negative factors that affect heart contractility • Summarize factors affecting stroke volume and cardiac output • Describe the cardiac response to variations in blood flow and pressure The autorhythmicity inherent in cardiac cells keeps the heart beating at a regular pace; however, the heart is regulated by and responds to outside influences as well. Neural and endocrine controls are vital to the regulation of cardiac function. In addition, the heart is sensitive to several environmental factors, including electrolytes. Resting Cardiac Output Cardiac output (CO)is a measurement of the amount of blood pumped by each ventricle in
