Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


anxiety and have been shown to lower HR effectively. Doing simple deep and slow breathing exercises with one’s eyes closed can also significantly reduce this anxiety and HR. Disorders of the... Heart: Broken Heart Syndrome Extreme stress from such life events as the death of a loved one, an emotional break up, loss of income, or foreclosure of a home may lead to a condition commonly referred to as broken heart syndrome. This condition may also be called Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, transient apical ballooning syndrome, apical ballooning cardiomyopathy, stress-induced cardiomyopathy, Gebrochenes-Herz syndrome, and stress cardiomyopathy. The recognized effects on the heart include congestive heart failure due to a profound weakening of the myocardium not related to lack of oxygen. This may lead to acute heart failure, lethal arrhythmias, or even the rupture of a ventricle. The exact etiology is not known, but several factors have been suggested, including transient vasospasm, dysfunction of the cardiac capillaries, or thickening of the myocardium—particularly in the left ventricle—that may lead to the critical circulation of blood to this region. While many patients survive the initial acute event with treatment to restore normal function, there is a strong correlation with death. Careful statistical analysis by the Jaap Spreeuw and Iqbal Owadally of Bayes Business School in London, revealed that within one year of the death of a loved one, women are more than twice as likely to die and men are six times as likely to die as would otherwise be expected. The same study indicated that longer relationships also had a greater incidence of a person dying soon after the death of their spouse. Other Factors Influencing Heart Rate Using a combination of autorhythmicity and innervation, the cardiovascular center is able to provide relatively precise control over HR. However, there are a number of other factors that have an impact on HR as well, including epinephrine, NE, and thyroid hormones; levels of various ions including calcium, potassium, and sodium; body temperature; hypoxia; and pH balance (Table 19.1andTable 19.2). After reading this section, the importance of maintaining homeostasis should become even more apparent. 794 19 • The Cardiovascular System: The Heart Major Factors Increasing Heart Rate and Force of Contraction Factor Effect Cardioaccelerator Release of norepinephrine by cardioaccelerator nerves nerves Proprioreceptors Increased firing rates of proprioreceptors (e.g. during exercise) Chemoreceptors sensing decreased levels of O or increased levels of H+, CO and Chemoreceptors 2 2 lactic
