Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


by cardioaccelerator nerves nerves Proprioreceptors Increased firing rates of proprioreceptors (e.g. during exercise) Chemoreceptors sensing decreased levels of O or increased levels of H+, CO and Chemoreceptors 2 2 lactic acid Baroreceptors Decreased firing rates of baroreceptors (indicating falling blood volume/pressure) Limbic system Anticipation of physical exercise or strong emotions by the limbic system Catecholamines Decreased epinephrine and norepinephrine release by the adrenal glands Thyroid hormones Increased T and T in the blood (released by thyroid) 3 4 Calcium Decrease in calcium ions in the blood Potassium Decrease in potassium ions in the blood Sodium Decrease in sodium ions in the blood Body temperature Increase in body temperature Nicotine and caffeine Presence of nicotine, caffeine or other stimulants TABLE19.1 Factors Decreasing Heart Rate and Force of Contraction Factor Effect Cardioinhibitor nerves Release of acetylcholine by cardioinhibitor nerves (vagus) Proprioreceptors Decreased firing rates of proprioreceptors (e.g. during rest) Chemoreceptors sensing increased levels of O or decreased levels of H+, CO and Chemoreceptors 2 2 lactic acid Baroreceptors Increased firing rates of baroreceptors (indicating rising blood volume/pressure) Limbic system Anticipation of relaxation by the limbic system Catecholamines Decreased epinephrine and norepinephrine release by the adrenal glands TABLE19.2 Access for free at openstax.org 19.4 • Cardiac Physiology 795 Factor Effect Thyroid hormones Decreased T and T in the blood (released by thyroid) 3 4 Calcium Decrease in calcium ions in the blood Potassium Increase in potassium ions in the blood Sodium Increase in sodium ions in the blood Body temperature Decrease in body temperature Opiates and tranquilizers Presence of opiates (heroin), tranquilizers or other depressants TABLE19.2 Epinephrine and Norepinephrine The catecholamines, epinephrine and NE, secreted by the adrenal medulla form one component of the extended fight-or-flight mechanism. The other component is sympathetic stimulation. Epinephrine and NE have similar effects: binding to the beta-1 receptors, and opening sodium and calcium ion chemical- or ligand-gated channels. The rate of depolarization is increased by this additional influx of positively charged ions, so the threshold is reached more quickly and the period of repolarization is shortened. However, massive releases of these hormones coupled with sympathetic stimulation may actually lead to arrhythmias. There is no parasympathetic stimulation to the adrenal medulla. Thyroid Hormones In general, increased levels of thyroid hormone, or thyroxin, increase cardiac rate and contractility. The impact of thyroid hormone is typically of a much longer duration than that of the catecholamines. The physiologically active form
