Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


in the mediastinal space within the thoracic cells have an action potential with an extended plateau cavity. The pericardial sac consists of two fused layers: phase that results in an extended refractory period to an outer fibrous capsule and an inner parietal allow complete contraction for the heart to pump blood pericardium lined with a serous membrane. Between effectively. Recognizable points on the ECG include the the pericardial sac and the heart is the pericardial P wave that corresponds to atrial depolarization, the cavity, which is filled with lubricating serous fluid. The QRS complex that corresponds to ventricular walls of the heart are composed of an outer depolarization, and the T wave that corresponds to epicardium, a thick myocardium, and an inner lining ventricular repolarization. layer of endocardium. The human heart consists of a pair of atria, which receive blood and pump it into a 19.3Cardiac Cycle pair of ventricles, which pump blood into the vessels. The cardiac cycle comprises a complete relaxation and The right atrium receives systemic blood relatively low contraction of both the atria and ventricles, and lasts in oxygen and pumps it into the right ventricle, which approximately 0.8 seconds. Beginning with all pumps it into the pulmonary circuit. Exchange of chambers in diastole, blood flows passively from the oxygen and carbon dioxide occurs in the lungs, and veins into the atria and past the atrioventricular valves blood high in oxygen returns to the left atrium, which into the ventricles. The atria begin to contract (atrial pumps blood into the left ventricle, which in turn systole), following depolarization of the atria, and pumps blood into the aorta and the remainder of the pump blood into the ventricles. The ventricles begin to systemic circuit. The septa are the partitions that contract (ventricular systole), raising pressure within separate the chambers of the heart. They include the the ventricles. When ventricular pressure rises above interatrial septum, the interventricular septum, and the the pressure in the atria, blood flows toward the atria, atrioventricular septum. Two of these openings are producing the first heart sound, S or lub. As pressure guarded by the atrioventricular valves, the right 1 in the ventricles rises above two major arteries, blood tricuspid valve and the left mitral valve, which prevent pushes open the two semilunar valves and moves into the backflow of blood. Each is attached to chordae the pulmonary trunk and aorta in the
