Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


left mitral valve, which prevent pushes open the two semilunar valves and moves into the backflow of blood. Each is attached to chordae the pulmonary trunk and aorta in the ventricular tendineae that extend to the papillary muscles, which ejection phase. Following ventricular repolarization, the are extensions of the myocardium, to prevent the ventricles begin to relax (ventricular diastole), and valves from being blown back into the atria. The pressure within the ventricles drops. As ventricular pulmonary valve is located at the base of the pressure drops, there is a tendency for blood to flow pulmonary trunk, and the left semilunar valve is back into the atria from the major arteries, producing located at the base of the aorta. The right and left the dicrotic notch in the ECG and closing the two coronary arteries are the first to branch off the aorta semilunar valves. The second heart sound, S or dub, and arise from two of the three sinuses located near 2 occurs when the semilunar valves close. When the the base of the aorta and are generally located in the pressure falls below that of the atria, blood moves from sulci. Cardiac veins parallel the small cardiac arteries the atria into the ventricles, opening the and generally drain into the coronary sinus. atrioventricular valves and marking one complete heart 19.2Cardiac Muscle and Electrical Activity cycle. The valves prevent backflow of blood. Failure of the valves to operate properly produces turbulent The heart is regulated by both neural and endocrine blood flow within the heart; the resulting heart murmur control, yet it is capable of initiating its own action can often be heard with a stethoscope. potential followed by muscular contraction. The conductive cells within the heart establish the heart 19.4Cardiac Physiology rate and transmit it through the myocardium. The Many factors affect HR and SV, and together, they contractile cells contract and propel the blood. The contribute to cardiac function. HR is largely determined normal path of transmission for the conductive cells is and regulated by autonomic stimulation and hormones. the sinoatrial (SA) node, internodal pathways, There are several feedback loops that contribute to atrioventricular (AV) node, atrioventricular (AV) bundle maintaining homeostasis dependent upon activity of His, bundle branches, and Purkinje fibers. The action 806 19 • Interactive Link Questions levels, such as the atrial reflex, which is determined by about day 18 or 19 from the mesoderm
