Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


branches, and Purkinje fibers. The action 806 19 • Interactive Link Questions levels, such as the atrial reflex, which is determined by about day 18 or 19 from the mesoderm and begins venous return. beating and pumping blood about day 21 or 22. It forms from the cardiogenic region near the head and is SV is regulated by autonomic innervation and visible as a prominent heart bulge on the surface of the hormones, but also by filling time and venous return. embryo. Originally, it consists of a pair of strands called Venous return is determined by activity of the skeletal cardiogenic cords that quickly form a hollow lumen and muscles, blood volume, and changes in peripheral are referred to as endocardial tubes. These then fuse circulation. Venous return determines preload and the into a single heart tube and differentiate into the atrial reflex. Filling time directly related to HR also truncus arteriosus, bulbus cordis, primitive ventricle, determines preload. Preload then impacts both EDV primitive atrium, and sinus venosus, starting about day and ESV. Autonomic innervation and hormones largely 22. The primitive heart begins to form an S shape regulate contractility. Contractility impacts EDV as does within the pericardium between days 23 and 28. The afterload. CO is the product of HR multiplied by SV. SV internal septa begin to form about day 28, separating is the difference between EDV and ESV. the heart into the atria and ventricles, although the 19.5Development of the Heart foramen ovale persists until shortly after birth. Between weeks five and eight, the atrioventricular The heart is the first organ to form and become valves form. The semilunar valves form between weeks functional, emphasizing the importance of transport of five and nine. material to and from the developing infant. It originates Interactive Link Questions 1. Visit thissite( observe an echocardiogram of actual heart valves opening and closing. Although much of the heart has been “removed” from this gif loop so the chordae tendineae are not visible, why is their presence more critical for the atrioventricular valves (tricuspid and mitral) than the semilunar (aortic and pulmonary) valves? Review Questions 2. Which of the following is not important in 4. Which of the following lists the valves in the order preventing backflow of blood? through which the blood flows from the vena cava a. chordae tendineae through the heart? b. papillary muscles a. tricuspid, pulmonary semilunar, bicuspid, c.
