Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


phase so critical to cardiac 34. Why does increasing EDV increase contractility? muscle function? 35. Why is afterload important to cardiac function? 30. How does the delay of the impulse at the 36. Why is it so important for the human heart to atrioventricular node contribute to cardiac develop early and begin functioning within the function? developing embryo? 31. How do gap junctions and intercalated disks aid 37. Describe how the major pumping chambers, the contraction of the heart? ventricles, form within the developing heart. Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 20 The Cardiovascular System: Blood Vessels and Circulation Figure20.1 Blood VesselsWhile most blood vessels are located deep from the surface and are not visible, the superficial veins of the upper limb provide an indication of the extent, prominence, and importance of these structures to the body. (credit: Colin Davis) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Compare and contrast the anatomical structure of arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules, and veins • Accurately describe the forces that account for capillary exchange • List the major factors affecting blood flow, blood pressure, and resistance • Describe how blood flow, blood pressure, and resistance interrelate • Discuss how the neural and endocrine mechanisms maintain homeostasis within the blood vessels • Describe the interaction of the cardiovascular system with other body systems • Label the major blood vessels of the pulmonary and systemic circulations • Identify and describe the hepatic portal system • Describe the development of blood vessels and fetal circulation • Compare fetal circulation to that of an individual after birth INTRODUCTION In this chapter, you will learn about the vascular part of the cardiovascular system, that is, the vessels that transport blood throughout the body and provide the physical site where gases, nutrients, and other substances are exchanged with body cells. When vessel functioning is reduced, blood-borne substances do not circulate effectively throughout the body. As a result, tissue injury occurs, metabolism is impaired, and the functions of every bodily system are threatened. 810 20 • The Cardiovascular System: Blood Vessels and Circulation 20.1 Structure and Function of Blood Vessels LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Compare and contrast the three tunics that make up the walls of most blood vessels • Distinguish between elastic arteries, muscular arteries, and arterioles on the basis of structure, location, and function
