Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


flow. A thoroughfare channel connects the metarteriole to a venule. An arteriovenous anastomosis, which directly connects the arteriole with the venule, is shown at the bottom. Venules Avenuleis an extremely small vein, generally 8–100 micrometers in diameter. Postcapillary venules join multiple capillaries exiting from a capillary bed. Multiple venules join to form veins. The walls of venules consist of endothelium, a thin middle layer with a few muscle cells and elastic fibers, plus an outer layer of connective tissue fibers that constitute a very thin tunica externa (Figure 20.7). Venules as well as capillaries are the primary sites of emigration or diapedesis, in which the white blood cells adhere to the endothelial lining of the vessels and then squeeze through adjacent cells to enter the tissue fluid. Access for free at openstax.org 20.1 • Structure and Function of Blood Vessels 817 Veins Aveinis a blood vessel that conducts blood toward the heart. Compared to arteries, veins are thin-walled vessels with large and irregular lumens (seeFigure 20.7). Because they are low-pressure vessels, larger veins are commonly equipped with valves that promote the unidirectional flow of blood toward the heart and prevent backflow toward the capillaries caused by the inherent low blood pressure in veins as well as the pull of gravity.Table 20.2compares the features of arteries and veins. FIGURE20.7 Comparison of Veins and Venules Many veins have valves to prevent back flow of blood, whereas venules do not. In terms of scale, the diameter of a venule is measured in micrometers compared to millimeters for veins. Comparison of Arteries and Veins Arteries Veins Conducts blood away from Direction of blood flow Conducts blood toward the heart the heart General appearance Rounded Irregular, often collapsed Pressure High Low TABLE20.2 818 20 • The Cardiovascular System: Blood Vessels and Circulation Arteries Veins Wall thickness Thick Thin Relative oxygen Higher in systemic arteries Lower in systemic veins concentration Lower in pulmonary arteries Higher in pulmonary veins Present most commonly in limbs and in veins Valves Not present inferior to the heart TABLE20.2 Disorders of the... Cardiovascular System: Edema and Varicose Veins Despite the presence of valves and the contributions of other anatomical and physiological adaptations we will cover shortly, over the course of a day, some blood will inevitably pool, especially in the lower limbs, due to the pull of gravity. Any blood that accumulates in a vein will increase the pressure within it,
