Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the heart. Although recognized by the American Medical Association, there are currently no licensing requirements for vascular technicians, and licensing is voluntary. Vascular technicians typically have an Associate’s degree or certificate, involving 18 months to 2 years of training. The United States Bureau of Labor projects this profession to grow by 29 percent from 2010 to 2020. Access for free at openstax.org 20.2 • Blood Flow, Blood Pressure, and Resistance 821 INTERACTIVE LINK Visit thissite( learn more about vascular surgery. INTERACTIVE LINK Visit thissite( learn more about vascular technicians. 20.2 Blood Flow, Blood Pressure, and Resistance LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Distinguish between systolic pressure, diastolic pressure, pulse pressure, and mean arterial pressure • Describe the clinical measurement of pulse and blood pressure • Identify and discuss five variables affecting arterial blood flow and blood pressure • Discuss several factors affecting blood flow in the venous system Blood flowrefers to the movement of blood through a vessel, tissue, or organ, and is usually expressed in terms of volume of blood per unit of time. It is initiated by the contraction of the ventricles of the heart. Ventricular contraction ejects blood into the major arteries, resulting in flow from regions of higher pressure to regions of lower pressure, as blood encounters smaller arteries and arterioles, then capillaries, then the venules and veins of the venous system. This section discusses a number of critical variables that contribute to blood flow throughout the body. It also discusses the factors that impede or slow blood flow, a phenomenon known asresistance. As noted earlier, hydrostatic pressure is the force exerted by a fluid due to gravitational pull, usually against the wall of the container in which it is located. One form of hydrostatic pressure isblood pressure, the force exerted by blood upon the walls of the blood vessels or the chambers of the heart. Blood pressure may be measured in capillaries and veins, as well as the vessels of the pulmonary circulation; however, the term blood pressure without any specific descriptors typically refers to systemic arterial blood pressure—that is, the pressure of blood flowing in the arteries of the systemic circulation. In clinical practice, this pressure is measured in mm Hg and is usually obtained using the brachial artery of the arm. Components of Arterial Blood Pressure Arterial blood pressure in the larger vessels consists of
