Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


is measured in mm Hg and is usually obtained using the brachial artery of the arm. Components of Arterial Blood Pressure Arterial blood pressure in the larger vessels consists of several distinct components (Figure 20.10): systolic and diastolic pressures, pulse pressure, and mean arterial pressure. Systolic and Diastolic Pressures When systemic arterial blood pressure is measured, it is recorded as a ratio of two numbers (e.g., 120/80 is a normal adult blood pressure), expressed as systolic pressure over diastolic pressure. Thesystolic pressureis the higher value (typically around 120 mm Hg) and reflects the arterial pressure resulting from the ejection of blood during ventricular contraction, or systole. Thediastolic pressureis the lower value (usually about 80 mm Hg) and represents the arterial pressure of blood during ventricular relaxation, or diastole. 822 20 • The Cardiovascular System: Blood Vessels and Circulation FIGURE20.10 Systemic Blood Pressure The graph shows the components of blood pressure throughout the blood vessels, including systolic, diastolic, mean arterial, and pulse pressures. Pulse Pressure As shown inFigure 20.10, the difference between the systolic pressure and the diastolic pressure is thepulse pressure. For example, an individual with a systolic pressure of 120 mm Hg and a diastolic pressure of 80 mm Hg would have a pulse pressure of 40 mmHg. Generally, a pulse pressure should be at least 25 percent of the systolic pressure. A pulse pressure below this level is described as low or narrow. This may occur, for example, in patients with a low stroke volume, which may be seen in congestive heart failure, stenosis of the aortic valve, or significant blood loss following trauma. In contrast, a high or wide pulse pressure is common in healthy people following strenuous exercise, when their resting pulse pressure of 30–40 mm Hg may increase temporarily to 100 mm Hg as stroke volume increases. A persistently high pulse pressure at or above 100 mm Hg may indicate excessive resistance in the arteries and can be caused by a variety of disorders. Chronic high resting pulse pressures can degrade the heart, brain, and kidneys, and warrant medical treatment. Mean Arterial Pressure Mean arterial pressure (MAP)represents the “average” pressure of blood in the arteries, that is, the average force driving blood into vessels that serve the tissues. Mean is a statistical concept and is calculated by taking the sum of the values divided by the number of values. Although complicated to measure directly and
