Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


reabsorbed. This excess fluid is picked up by capillaries of the lymphatic system. These extremely thin-walled vessels have copious numbers of valves that ensure unidirectional flow through ever-larger lymphatic vessels that eventually drain into the subclavian veins in the neck. An important function of the lymphatic system is to return the fluid (lymph) to the blood. Lymph may be thought of as recycledblood plasma. (Seek additional content for more detail on the lymphatic system.) INTERACTIVE LINK Watch thisvideo( explore capillaries and how they function in the body. Capillaries are never more than 100 micrometers away. What is the main component of interstitial fluid? 20.4 Homeostatic Regulation of the Vascular System LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Discuss the mechanisms involved in the neural regulation of vascular homeostasis • Describe the contribution of a variety of hormones to the renal regulation of blood pressure • Identify the effects of exercise on vascular homeostasis • Discuss how hypertension, hemorrhage, and circulatory shock affect vascular health In order to maintain homeostasis in the cardiovascular system and provide adequate blood to the tissues, blood Access for free at openstax.org 20.4 • Homeostatic Regulation of the Vascular System 833 flow must be redirected continually to the tissues as they become more active. In a very real sense, the cardiovascular system engages in resource allocation, because there is not enough blood flow to distribute blood equally to all tissues simultaneously. For example, when an individual is exercising, more blood will be directed to skeletal muscles, the heart, and the lungs. Following a meal, more blood is directed to the digestive system. Only the brain receives a more or less constant supply of blood whether you are active, resting, thinking, or engaged in any other activity. Table 20.3provides the distribution of systemic blood at rest and during exercise. Although most of the data appears logical, the values for the distribution of blood to the integument may seem surprising. During exercise, the body distributes more blood to the body surface where it can dissipate the excess heat generated by increased activity into the environment. Systemic Blood Flow During Rest, Mild Exercise, and Maximal Exercise in a Healthy Young Individual Resting Mild exercise Maximal exercise Organ (mL/min) (mL/min) (mL/min) Skeletal muscle 1200 4500 12,500 Heart 250 350 750 Brain 750 750 750 Integument 500 1500 1900 Kidney 1100 900 600 Gastrointestinal
