Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


trunk reaches the superior surface of the heart, it curves posteriorly and rapidly bifurcates (divides) into two branches, a left and a rightpulmonary artery. To prevent confusion between these vessels, it is important to refer to the vessel exiting the heart as the pulmonary trunk, rather than also calling it a pulmonary artery. The pulmonary arteries in turn branch many times within the lung, forming a series of smaller arteries and arterioles that eventually lead to the pulmonary capillaries. The pulmonary capillaries surround lung structures known as alveoli that are the sites of oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange. Once gas exchange is completed, oxygenated blood flows from the pulmonary capillaries into a series of pulmonary venules that eventually lead to a series of largerpulmonary veins. Four pulmonary veins, two on the left and two on the right, return blood to the left atrium. At this point, the pulmonary circuit is complete.Table 20.4defines the major arteries and veins of the pulmonary circuit discussed in the text. FIGURE20.23 Pulmonary Circuit Blood exiting from the right ventricle flows into the pulmonary trunk, which bifurcates into the two Access for free at openstax.org 20.5 • Circulatory Pathways 845 pulmonary arteries. These vessels branch to supply blood to the pulmonary capillaries, where gas exchange occurs within the lung alveoli. Blood returns via the pulmonary veins to the left atrium. Pulmonary Arteries and Veins Vessel Description Pulmonary Single large vessel exiting the right ventricle that divides to form the right and left pulmonary trunk arteries Pulmonary Left and right vessels that form from the pulmonary trunk and lead to smaller arterioles and arteries eventually to the pulmonary capillaries Pulmonary Two sets of paired vessels—one pair on each side—that are formed from the small venules, leading veins away from the pulmonary capillaries to flow into the left atrium TABLE20.4 Overview of Systemic Arteries Blood relatively high in oxygen concentration is returned from the pulmonary circuit to the left atrium via the four pulmonary veins. From the left atrium, blood moves into the left ventricle, which pumps blood into the aorta. The aorta and its branches—the systemic arteries—send blood to virtually every organ of the body (Figure 20.24). 846 20 • The Cardiovascular System: Blood Vessels and Circulation FIGURE20.24 Systemic Arteries The major systemic arteries shown here deliver oxygenated blood throughout the body. The Aorta Theaortais the largest artery in the body (Figure 20.25). It arises from the
