Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


FIGURE20.24 Systemic Arteries The major systemic arteries shown here deliver oxygenated blood throughout the body. The Aorta Theaortais the largest artery in the body (Figure 20.25). It arises from the left ventricle and eventually descends to the abdominal region, where it bifurcates at the level of the fourth lumbar vertebra into the two common iliac arteries. The aorta consists of the ascending aorta, the aortic arch, and the descending aorta, which passes through the diaphragm and a landmark that divides into the superior thoracic and inferior abdominal components. Arteries originating from the aorta ultimately distribute blood to virtually all tissues of the body. At the base of the aorta is the aortic semilunar valve that prevents backflow of blood into the left ventricle while the heart is relaxing. After exiting the heart, theascending aortamoves in a superior direction for approximately 5 cm and ends at the sternal angle. Following this ascent, it reverses direction, forming a graceful arc to the left, called theaortic arch. The aortic arch descends toward the inferior portions of the body and ends at the level of the intervertebral disk between the fourth and fifth thoracic vertebrae. Beyond this point, thedescending aortacontinues close to the bodies of the vertebrae and passes through an opening in the diaphragm known as theaortic hiatus. Superior to the diaphragm, the aorta is called thethoracic aorta, and inferior to the diaphragm, it is called theabdominal aorta. The abdominal Access for free at openstax.org 20.5 • Circulatory Pathways 847 aorta terminates when it bifurcates into the two common iliac arteries at the level of the fourth lumbar vertebra. See Figure 20.25for an illustration of the ascending aorta, the aortic arch, and the initial segment of the descending aorta plus major branches;Table 20.5summarizes the structures of the aorta. FIGURE20.25 Aorta The aorta has distinct regions, including the ascending aorta, aortic arch, and the descending aorta, which includes the thoracic and abdominal regions. Components of the Aorta Vessel Description Largest artery in the body, originating from the left ventricle and descending to the abdominal Aorta region, where it bifurcates into the common iliac arteries at the level of the fourth lumbar vertebra; arteries originating from the aorta distribute blood to virtually all tissues of the body Ascending Initial portion of the aorta, rising superiorly from the left ventricle for a distance of approximately aorta 5 cm Graceful arc to the left that connects the
