Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the body Ascending Initial portion of the aorta, rising superiorly from the left ventricle for a distance of approximately aorta 5 cm Graceful arc to the left that connects the ascending aorta to the descending aorta; ends at the Aortic arch intervertebral disk between the fourth and fifth thoracic vertebrae Descending Portion of the aorta that continues inferiorly past the end of the aortic arch; subdivided into the aorta thoracic aorta and the abdominal aorta TABLE20.5 848 20 • The Cardiovascular System: Blood Vessels and Circulation Vessel Description Thoracic Portion of the descending aorta superior to the aortic hiatus aorta Abdominal Portion of the aorta inferior to the aortic hiatus and superior to the common iliac arteries aorta TABLE20.5 Coronary Circulation The first vessels that branch from the ascending aorta are the paired coronary arteries (seeFigure 20.25), which arise from two of the three sinuses in the ascending aorta just superior to the aortic semilunar valve. These sinuses contain the aortic baroreceptors and chemoreceptors critical to maintain cardiac function. The left coronary artery arises from the left posterior aortic sinus. The right coronary artery arises from the anterior aortic sinus. Normally, the right posterior aortic sinus does not give rise to a vessel. The coronary arteries encircle the heart, forming a ring-like structure that divides into the next level of branches that supplies blood to the heart tissues. (Seek additional content for more detail on cardiac circulation.) Aortic Arch Branches There are three major branches of the aortic arch: the brachiocephalic artery, the left common carotid artery, and the left subclavian (literally “under the clavicle”) artery. As you would expect based upon proximity to the heart, each of these vessels is classified as an elastic artery. The brachiocephalic artery is located only on the right side of the body; there is no corresponding artery on the left. The brachiocephalic artery branches into the right subclavian artery and the right common carotid artery. The left subclavian and left common carotid arteries arise independently from the aortic arch but otherwise follow a similar pattern and distribution to the corresponding arteries on the right side (seeFigure 20.23). Eachsubclavian arterysupplies blood to the arms, chest, shoulders, back, and central nervous system. It then gives rise to three major branches: the internal thoracic artery, the vertebral artery, and the thyrocervical artery. The internal thoracic artery, or mammary artery, supplies blood to the thymus, the pericardium
