Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the aortic hiatus, the thoracic aorta is called the abdominal aorta (see Figure 20.28). This vessel remains to the left of the vertebral column and is embedded in adipose tissue behind the peritoneal cavity. It formally ends at approximately the level of vertebra L4, where it bifurcates to form the common iliac arteries. Before this division, the abdominal aorta gives rise to several important branches. A singleceliac trunk(artery) emerges and divides into theleft gastric arteryto supply blood to the stomach and esophagus, the splenic arteryto supply blood to the spleen, and thecommon hepatic artery, which in turn gives rise to the hepatic artery properto supply blood to the liver, theright gastric arteryto supply blood to the stomach, the cystic arteryto supply blood to the gall bladder, and several branches, one to supply blood to the duodenum and another to supply blood to the pancreas. Two additional single vessels arise from the abdominal aorta. These are the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries. Thesuperior mesenteric arteryarises approximately 2.5 cm after the celiac trunk and branches into several major vessels that supply blood to the small intestine (duodenum, jejunum, and ileum), the pancreas, and a majority of the large intestine. Theinferior mesenteric arterysupplies blood to the distal segment of the large intestine, including the rectum. It arises approximately 5 cm superior to the common iliac arteries. In addition to these single branches, the abdominal aorta gives rise to several significant paired arteries along the way. These include the inferior phrenic arteries, the adrenal arteries, the renal arteries, the gonadal arteries, and the lumbar arteries. Eachinferior phrenic arteryis a counterpart of a superior phrenic artery and supplies blood to the inferior surface of the diaphragm. Theadrenal arterysupplies blood to the adrenal (suprarenal) glands and arises near the superior mesenteric artery. Eachrenal arterybranches approximately 2.5 cm inferior to the superior mesenteric arteries and supplies a kidney. The right renal artery is longer than the left since the aorta lies to the left of the vertebral column and the vessel must travel a greater distance to reach its target. Renal arteries branch repeatedly to supply blood to the kidneys. Eachgonadal arterysupplies blood to the gonads, or reproductive organs, and is also described as either an ovarian artery or a testicular artery (internal spermatic), depending upon the sex of the individual. Anovarian arterysupplies blood to an ovary, uterine (Fallopian) tube, and the uterus, and is located within
