Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


artery or a testicular artery (internal spermatic), depending upon the sex of the individual. Anovarian arterysupplies blood to an ovary, uterine (Fallopian) tube, and the uterus, and is located within the suspensory ligament of the uterus. It is considerably shorter than atesticular artery, which ultimately travels outside the body cavity to the testes, forming one component of the spermatic cord. The gonadal arteries arise inferior to the renal arteries and are generally retroperitoneal. The ovarian artery continues to the uterus where it forms an anastomosis with the uterine artery that supplies blood to the uterus. Both the uterine arteries and vaginal arteries, which distribute blood to the vagina, are branches of the internal iliac artery. The four pairedlumbar arteriesare the counterparts of the intercostal arteries and supply blood to the lumbar region, the abdominal wall, and the spinal cord. In some instances, a fifth pair of lumbar arteries emerges from the median sacral artery. The aorta divides at approximately the level of vertebra L4 into a left and a rightcommon iliac arterybut continues as a small vessel, themedian sacral artery, into the sacrum. The common iliac arteries provide blood to the pelvic region and ultimately to the lower limbs. They split into external and internal iliac arteries approximately at the level of the lumbar-sacral articulation. Eachinternal iliac arterysends branches to the urinary bladder, the walls of the pelvis, the external genitalia, and the medial portion of the femoral region. In females, they also provide blood to the 854 20 • The Cardiovascular System: Blood Vessels and Circulation uterus and vagina. The much largerexternal iliac arterysupplies blood to each of the lower limbs.Figure 20.29 shows the distribution of the major branches of the aorta into the thoracic and abdominal regions.Figure 20.30 shows the distribution of the major branches of the common iliac arteries.Table 20.8summarizes the major branches of the abdominal aorta. FIGURE20.29 Major Branches of the Aorta The flow chart summarizes the distribution of the major branches of the aorta into the thoracic and abdominal regions. Access for free at openstax.org 20.5 • Circulatory Pathways 855 FIGURE20.30 Major Branches of the Iliac Arteries The flow chart summarizes the distribution of the major branches of the common iliac arteries into the pelvis and lower limbs. The left side follows a similar pattern to the right. Vessels of the Abdominal Aorta Vessel Description Also called the celiac artery; a major branch of the
