Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


artery and gives rise to the fibular or peroneal artery; supplies blood to tibial the posterior tibial region artery Medial Arises from the bifurcation of the posterior tibial arteries; supplies blood to the medial plantar plantar surfaces of the foot artery Lateral Arises from the bifurcation of the posterior tibial arteries; supplies blood to the lateral plantar plantar surfaces of the foot artery Dorsal or Formed from the anastomosis of the dorsalis pedis artery and the medial and plantar arteries; arcuate branches supply the distal portions of the foot and digits arch Plantar Formed from the anastomosis of the dorsalis pedis artery and the medial and plantar arteries; arch branches supply the distal portions of the foot and digits TABLE20.10 Overview of Systemic Veins Systemic veins return blood to the right atrium. Since the blood has already passed through the systemic capillaries, it will be relatively low in oxygen concentration. In many cases, there will be veins draining organs and regions of the body with the same name as the arteries that supplied these regions and the two often parallel one another. This is often described as a “complementary” pattern. However, there is a great deal more variability in the venous circulation than normally occurs in the arteries. For the sake of brevity and clarity, this text will discuss only the most commonly encountered patterns. However, keep this variation in mind when you move from the classroom to clinical practice. In both the neck and limb regions, there are often both superficial and deeper levels of veins. The deeper veins generally correspond to the complementary arteries. The superficial veins do not normally have direct arterial counterparts, but in addition to returning blood, they also make contributions to the maintenance of body temperature. When the ambient temperature is warm, more blood is diverted to the superficial veins where heat can be more easily dissipated to the environment. In colder weather, there is more constriction of the superficial veins and blood is diverted deeper where the body can retain more of the heat. Access for free at openstax.org 20.5 • Circulatory Pathways 863 The “Voyage of Discovery” analogy and stick drawings mentioned earlier remain valid techniques for the study of systemic veins, but veins present a more difficult challenge because there are numerous anastomoses and multiple branches. It is like following a river with many tributaries and channels, several of which interconnect.
