Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


vein, also known as an internal mammary vein, drains the anterior surface of the chest wall and flows into the brachiocephalic vein. The remainder of the blood supply from the thorax drains into the azygos vein. Eachintercostal veindrains muscles of the thoracic wall, eachesophageal veindelivers blood from the inferior portions of the esophagus, each bronchial veindrains the systemic circulation from the lungs, and several smaller veins drain the mediastinal region. Bronchial veins carry approximately 13 percent of the blood that flows into the bronchial arteries; the remainder intermingles with the pulmonary circulation and returns to the heart via the pulmonary veins. These veins flow into theazygos vein, and with the smallerhemiazygos vein(hemi- = “half”) on the left of the vertebral column, drain blood from the thoracic region. The hemiazygos vein does not drain directly into the superior vena cava but enters the brachiocephalic vein via the superior intercostal vein. The azygos vein passes through the diaphragm from the thoracic cavity on the right side of the vertebral column and begins in the lumbar region of the thoracic cavity. It flows into the superior vena cava at approximately the level of T2, making a significant contribution to the flow of blood. It combines with the two large left and right brachiocephalic veins to form the superior vena cava. Table 20.11summarizes the veins of the thoracic region that flow into the superior vena cava. FIGURE20.36 Veins of the Thoracic and Abdominal Regions Veins of the thoracic and abdominal regions drain blood from the area above the diaphragm, returning it to the right atrium via the superior vena cava. 866 20 • The Cardiovascular System: Blood Vessels and Circulation Veins of the Thoracic Region Vessel Description Superior vena Large systemic vein; drains blood from most areas superior to the diaphragm; empties into cava the right atrium Located deep in the thoracic cavity; formed by the axillary vein as it enters the thoracic cavity Subclavian vein from the axillary region; drains the axillary and smaller local veins near the scapular region and leads to the brachiocephalic vein Pair of veins that form from a fusion of the external and internal jugular veins and the Brachiocephalic subclavian vein; subclavian, external and internal jugulars, vertebral, and internal thoracic veins veins flow into it; drain the upper thoracic region and lead to the superior vena cava Arises from the base of the brain and the cervical region
