Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


vein vein Maxillary Drains blood from the maxillary region and flows into the external jugular vein vein External Drains blood from the more superficial portions of the head, scalp, and cranial regions, and leads to jugular the subclavian vein vein TABLE20.12 Venous Drainage of the Brain Circulation to the brain is both critical and complex (seeFigure 20.37). Many smaller veins of the brain stem and the superficial veins of the cerebrum lead to larger vessels referred to as intracranial sinuses. These include the superior and inferior sagittal sinuses, straight sinus, cavernous sinuses, left and right sinuses, the petrosal sinuses, and the occipital sinuses. Ultimately, sinuses will lead back to either the inferior jugular vein or vertebral vein. Most of the veins on the superior surface of the cerebrum flow into the largest of the sinuses, thesuperior sagittal sinus. It is located midsagittally between the meningeal and periosteal layers of the dura mater within the falx cerebri and, at first glance in images or models, can be mistaken for the subarachnoid space. Most reabsorption of cerebrospinal fluid occurs via the chorionic villi (arachnoid granulations) into the superior sagittal sinus. Blood from most of the smaller vessels originating from the inferior cerebral veins flows into thegreat cerebral veinand into thestraight sinus. Other cerebral veins and those from the eye socket flow into thecavernous sinus, which flows into thepetrosal sinusand then into the internal jugular vein. Theoccipital sinus, sagittal sinus, and straight sinuses all flow into the left and right transverse sinuses near the lambdoid suture. Thetransverse sinusesin turn flow into thesigmoid sinusesthat pass through the jugular foramen and into the internal jugular vein. The internal jugular vein flows parallel to the common carotid artery and is more or less its counterpart. It empties into the brachiocephalic vein. The veins draining the cervical vertebrae and the posterior surface of the skull, including some blood from the occipital sinus, flow into the vertebral veins. These parallel the vertebral arteries and travel through the transverse foramina of the cervical vertebrae. The vertebral veins also flow into the brachiocephalic veins.Table 20.13summarizes the major veins of the brain. 868 20 • The Cardiovascular System: Blood Vessels and Circulation FIGURE20.37 Veins of the Head and Neck This left lateral view shows the veins of the head and neck, including the intercranial sinuses. Major Veins of the Brain Vessel Description Superior Enlarged vein located midsagittally between the meningeal and
