Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


vein, and continues into the upper arm; along with the brachial vein, it leads to the axillary vein Median Superficial vessel located in the antecubital region that links the cephalic vein to the basilic vein cubital vein in the form of a v; a frequent site from which to draw blood Cephalic Superficial vessel in the upper arm; leads to the axillary vein vein Subscapular Drains blood from the subscapular region and leads to the axillary vein vein Axillary vein The major vein in the axillary region; drains the upper limb and becomes the subclavian vein TABLE20.14 The Inferior Vena Cava Other than the small amount of blood drained by the azygos and hemiazygos veins, most of the blood inferior to the diaphragm drains into the inferior vena cava before it is returned to the heart (seeFigure 20.36). Lying just beneath the parietal peritoneum in the abdominal cavity, theinferior vena cavaparallels the abdominal aorta, where it can receive blood from abdominal veins. The lumbar portions of the abdominal wall and spinal cord are drained by a series oflumbar veins, usually four on each side. The ascending lumbar veins drain into either the azygos vein on the right or the hemiazygos vein on the left, and return to the superior vena cava. The remaining lumbar veins drain directly into the inferior vena cava. Blood supply from the kidneys flows into eachrenal vein, normally the largest veins entering the inferior vena cava. A number of other, smaller veins empty into the left renal vein. Eachadrenal veindrains the adrenal or suprarenal glands located immediately superior to the kidneys. The right adrenal vein enters the inferior vena cava directly, whereas the left adrenal vein enters the left renal vein. From the male reproductive organs, eachtesticular veinflows from the scrotum, forming a portion of the spermatic cord. Eachovarian veindrains an ovary in females. Each of these veins is generically called agonadal vein. The right gonadal vein empties directly into the inferior vena cava, and the left gonadal vein empties into the left renal vein. Each side of the diaphragm drains into aphrenic vein; the right phrenic vein empties directly into the inferior vena cava, whereas the left phrenic vein empties into the left renal vein. Blood supply from the liver drains into each hepatic veinand directly into the inferior vena cava. Since the inferior vena cava lies primarily to the right of the vertebral column
