Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Hepatic Drains systemic blood from the liver and flows into the inferior vena cava vein TABLE20.15 Veins Draining the Lower Limbs The superior surface of the foot drains into the digital veins, and the inferior surface drains into theplantar veins, which flow into a complex series of anastomoses in the feet and ankles, including thedorsal venous archand the plantar venous arch(Figure 20.41). From the dorsal venous arch, blood supply drains into the anterior and posterior tibial veins. Theanterior tibial veindrains the area near the tibialis anterior muscle and combines with the posterior tibial vein and the fibular vein to form the popliteal vein. Theposterior tibial veindrains the posterior surface of the tibia and joins the popliteal vein. Thefibular veindrains the muscles and integument in proximity to the fibula and also joins the popliteal vein. Thesmall saphenous veinlocated on the lateral surface of the leg drains blood from the superficial regions of the lower leg and foot, and flows into to thepopliteal vein. As the popliteal vein passes behind the knee in the popliteal region, it becomes the femoral vein. It is palpable in patients without excessive adipose tissue. Close to the body wall, the great saphenous vein, the deep femoral vein, and the femoral circumflex vein drain into the femoral vein. Thegreat saphenous veinis a prominent surface vessel located on the medial surface of the leg and thigh that collects blood from the superficial portions of these areas. Thedeep femoral vein, as the name suggests, drains blood from the deeper portions of the thigh. Thefemoral circumflex veinforms a loop around the femur just inferior to the trochanters and drains blood from the areas in proximity to the head and neck of the femur. As thefemoral veinpenetrates the body wall from the femoral portion of the upper limb, it becomes theexternal iliac vein, a large vein that drains blood from the leg to the common iliac vein. The pelvic organs and integument drain into theinternal iliac vein, which forms from several smaller veins in the region, including the umbilical veins that run on either side of the bladder. The external and internal iliac veins combine near the inferior portion of the sacroiliac joint to form the common iliac vein. In addition to blood supply from the external and internal iliac veins, themiddle sacral veindrains the sacral region into thecommon iliac vein. Similar to the common iliac arteries, the common iliac veins
