Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


drains blood from the areas around circumflex the head and neck of the femur; flows into the femoral vein vein Femoral Drains the upper leg; receives blood from the great saphenous vein, the deep femoral vein, and the vein femoral circumflex vein; becomes the external iliac vein when it crosses the body wall External Formed when the femoral vein passes into the body cavity; drains the legs and flows into the iliac vein common iliac vein Internal Drains the pelvic organs and integument; formed from several smaller veins in the region; flows iliac vein into the common iliac vein Middle Drains the sacral region and flows into the left common iliac vein sacral vein Flows into the inferior vena cava at the level of L5; the left common iliac vein drains the sacral Common region; formed from the union of the external and internal iliac veins near the inferior portion of the iliac vein sacroiliac joint TABLE20.16 Hepatic Portal System The liver is a complex biochemical processing plant. It packages nutrients absorbed by the digestive system; produces plasma proteins, clotting factors, and bile; and disposes of worn-out cell components and waste products. Instead of entering the circulation directly, absorbed nutrients and certain wastes (for example, materials produced by the spleen) travel to the liver for processing. They do so via thehepatic portal system(Figure 20.43). Portal systems begin and end in capillaries. In this case, the initial capillaries from the stomach, small intestine, large intestine, and spleen lead to the hepatic portal vein and end in specialized capillaries within the liver, the hepatic 878 20 • The Cardiovascular System: Blood Vessels and Circulation sinusoids. You saw the only other portal system with the hypothalamic-hypophyseal portal vessel in the endocrine chapter. The hepatic portal system consists of the hepatic portal vein and the veins that drain into it. The hepatic portal vein itself is relatively short, beginning at the level of L2 with the confluence of the superior mesenteric and splenic veins. It also receives branches from the inferior mesenteric vein, plus the splenic veins and all their tributaries. The superior mesenteric vein receives blood from the small intestine, two-thirds of the large intestine, and the stomach. The inferior mesenteric vein drains the distal third of the large intestine, including the descending colon, the sigmoid colon, and the rectum. The splenic vein is formed from branches from the spleen, pancreas, and portions
