Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


into smaller vessels, forming arterioles. tunica intima layer. The tunica intima is a thin layer Arterioles distribute blood to capillary beds, the sites composed of a simple squamous epithelium known as of exchange with the body tissues. Capillaries lead endothelium and a small amount of connective tissue. back to small vessels known as venules that flow into The tunica media is a thicker area composed of the larger veins and eventually back to the heart. variable amounts of smooth muscle and connective The arterial system is a relatively high-pressure tissue. It is the thickest layer in all but the largest 888 20 • Chapter Review arteries. The tunica externa is primarily a layer of identical so there is no net exchange, whereas connective tissue, although in veins, it also contains reabsorption predominates at the venule end of the some smooth muscle. Blood flow through vessels can capillary. The hydrostatic and colloid osmotic be dramatically influenced by vasoconstriction and pressures in the interstitial fluid are negligible in vasodilation in their walls. healthy circumstances. 20.2Blood Flow, Blood Pressure, and 20.4Homeostatic Regulation of the Resistance Vascular System Blood flow is the movement of blood through a vessel, Neural, endocrine, and autoregulatory mechanisms tissue, or organ. The slowing or blocking of blood flow affect blood flow, blood pressure, and eventually is called resistance. Blood pressure is the force that perfusion of blood to body tissues. Neural mechanisms blood exerts upon the walls of the blood vessels or include the cardiovascular centers in the medulla chambers of the heart. The components of blood oblongata, baroreceptors in the aorta and carotid pressure include systolic pressure, which results from arteries and right atrium, and associated ventricular contraction, and diastolic pressure, which chemoreceptors that monitor blood levels of oxygen, results from ventricular relaxation. Pulse pressure is carbon dioxide, and hydrogen ions. Endocrine controls the difference between systolic and diastolic include epinephrine and norepinephrine, as well as measures, and mean arterial pressure is the “average” ADH, the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone mechanism, pressure of blood in the arterial system, driving blood ANH, and EPO. Autoregulation is the local control of into the tissues. Pulse, the expansion and recoiling of vasodilation and constriction by chemical signals and an artery, reflects the heartbeat. The variables the myogenic response. Exercise greatly improves affecting blood flow and blood pressure in the systemic cardiovascular function and reduces the risk of circulation are cardiac output, compliance, blood cardiovascular
