Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


variables the myogenic response. Exercise greatly improves affecting blood flow and blood pressure in the systemic cardiovascular function and reduces the risk of circulation are cardiac output, compliance, blood cardiovascular diseases, including hypertension, a volume, blood viscosity, and the length and diameter of leading cause of heart attacks and strokes. Significant the blood vessels. In the arterial system, vasodilation hemorrhage can lead to a form of circulatory shock and vasoconstriction of the arterioles is a significant known as hypovolemic shock. Sepsis, obstruction, and factor in systemic blood pressure: Slight vasodilation widespread inflammation can also cause circulatory greatly decreases resistance and increases flow, shock. whereas slight vasoconstriction greatly increases 20.5Circulatory Pathways resistance and decreases flow. In the arterial system, as resistance increases, blood pressure increases and The right ventricle pumps oxygen-depleted blood into flow decreases. In the venous system, constriction the pulmonary trunk and right and left pulmonary increases blood pressure as it does in arteries; the arteries, which carry it to the right and left lungs for gas increasing pressure helps to return blood to the heart. exchange. Oxygen-rich blood is transported by In addition, constriction causes the vessel lumen to pulmonary veins to the left atrium. The left ventricle become more rounded, decreasing resistance and pumps this blood into the aorta. The main regions of increasing blood flow. Venoconstriction, while less the aorta are the ascending aorta, aortic arch, and important than arterial vasoconstriction, works with descending aorta, which is further divided into the the skeletal muscle pump, the respiratory pump, and thoracic and abdominal aorta. The coronary arteries their valves to promote venous return to the heart. branch from the ascending aorta. After oxygenating tissues in the capillaries, systemic blood is returned to 20.3Capillary Exchange the right atrium from the venous system via the Small molecules can cross into and out of capillaries superior vena cava, which drains most of the veins via simple or facilitated diffusion. Some large superior to the diaphragm, the inferior vena cava, molecules can cross in vesicles or through clefts, which drains most of the veins inferior to the fenestrations, or gaps between cells in capillary walls. diaphragm, and the coronary veins via the coronary However, the bulk flow of capillary and tissue fluid sinus. The hepatic portal system carries blood to the occurs via filtration and reabsorption. Filtration, the liver for processing before it enters circulation. Review movement of fluid out of
