Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Access for free at openstax.org 20 • Critical Thinking Questions 891 26. Which of the following statements is true? 27. The ductus venosus is a shunt that allows a. Two umbilical veins carry oxygen-depleted ________. blood from the fetal circulation to the a. fetal blood to flow from the right atrium to the placenta. left atrium b. One umbilical vein carries oxygen-rich blood b. fetal blood to flow from the right ventricle to from the placenta to the fetal heart. the left ventricle c. Two umbilical arteries carry oxygen-depleted c. most freshly oxygenated blood to flow into blood to the fetal lungs. the fetal heart d. None of the above are true. d. most oxygen-depleted fetal blood to flow directly into the fetal pulmonary trunk Critical Thinking Questions 28. Arterioles are often referred to as resistance 33. A patient arrives at the emergency department vessels. Why? with dangerously low blood pressure. The 29. Cocaine use causes vasoconstriction. Is this likely patient’s blood colloid osmotic pressure is normal. to increase or decrease blood pressure, and why? How would you expect this situation to affect the 30. A blood vessel with a few smooth muscle fibers patient’s net filtration pressure? and connective tissue, and only a very thin tunica 34. True or false? The plasma proteins suspended in externa conducts blood toward the heart. What blood cross the capillary cell membrane and enter type of vessel is this? the tissue fluid via facilitated diffusion. Explain 31. You measure a patient’s blood pressure at 130/ your thinking. 85. Calculate the patient’s pulse pressure and 35. A patient arrives in the emergency department mean arterial pressure. Determine whether each with a blood pressure of 70/45 confused and pressure is low, normal, or high. complaining of thirst. Why? 32. An obese patient comes to the clinic complaining 36. Nitric oxide is broken down very quickly after its of swollen feet and ankles, fatigue, shortness of release. Why? breath, and often feeling “spaced out.” She is a 37. Identify the ventricle of the heart that pumps cashier in a grocery store, a job that requires her oxygen-depleted blood and the arteries of the to stand all day. Outside of work, she engages in body that carry oxygen-depleted blood. no physical activity. She confesses that, because 38. What organs do the gonadal veins drain? of her weight, she finds even walking 39. What arteries play the leading
