Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


oxygen-depleted blood. no physical activity. She confesses that, because 38. What organs do the gonadal veins drain? of her weight, she finds even walking 39. What arteries play the leading roles in supplying uncomfortable. Explain how the skeletal muscle blood to the brain? pump might play a role in this patient’s signs and 40. All tissues, including malignant tumors, need a symptoms. blood supply. Explain why drugs called angiogenesis inhibitors would be used in cancer treatment. 41. Explain the location and importance of the ductus arteriosus in fetal circulation. 892 20 • Critical Thinking Questions Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 21 The Lymphatic and Immune System Figure21.1 The Worldwide AIDS Epidemic(a) As of 2008, more than 15 percent of adults were infected with HIV in certain African countries. This grim picture had changed little by 2012. (b) In this scanning electron micrograph, HIV virions (green particles) are budding off the surface of a macrophage (pink structure). (credit b: C. Goldsmith) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Identify the components and anatomy of the lymphatic system • Discuss the role of the innate immune response against pathogens • Describe the power of the adaptive immune response to cure disease • Explain immunological deficiencies and over-reactions of the immune system • Discuss the role of the immune response in transplantation and cancer • Describe the interaction of the immune and lymphatic systems with other body systems INTRODUCTION In June 1981, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), in Atlanta, Georgia, published a report of an unusual cluster of five patients in Los Angeles, California. All five were diagnosed with a rare pneumonia caused by a fungus calledPneumocystis jirovecii(formerly known asPneumocystis carinii). Why was this unusual? Although commonly found in the lungs of healthy individuals, this fungus is an opportunistic pathogen that causes disease in individuals with suppressed or underdeveloped immune systems. The very young, whose immune systems have yet to mature, and the elderly, whose immune systems have declined with age, are particularly susceptible. The five patients from LA, though, were between 29 and 36 years of age and should have been in the prime of their lives, immunologically speaking. What could be going on? A few days later, a cluster of eight cases was reported in New York City, also involving young patients, this time exhibiting a rare form of skin cancer known
