Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


surrounding structures. As interstitial pressure increases, the filaments pull on the endothelial cell flaps, opening up them even further to allow easy entry of fluid. In the small intestine, lymphatic capillaries called lacteals are critical for the transport of dietary lipids and lipid- soluble vitamins to the bloodstream. In the small intestine, dietary triglycerides combine with other lipids and proteins, and enter the lacteals to form a milky fluid calledchyle. The chyle then travels through the lymphatic system, eventually entering the bloodstream. Larger Lymphatic Vessels, Trunks, and Ducts The lymphatic capillaries empty into larger lymphatic vessels, which are similar to veins in terms of their three-tunic structure and the presence of valves. These one-way valves are located fairly close to one another, and each one causes a bulge in the lymphatic vessel, giving the vessels a beaded appearance (seeFigure 21.3). The superficial and deep lymphatics eventually merge to form larger lymphatic vessels known aslymphatic trunks. On the right side of the body, the right sides of the head, thorax, and right upper limb drain lymph fluid into the right subclavian vein via the right lymphatic duct (Figure 21.4). On the left side of the body, the remaining portions of the Access for free at openstax.org 21.1 • Anatomy of the Lymphatic and Immune Systems 897 body drain into the larger thoracic duct, which drains into the left subclavian vein. The thoracic duct itself begins just beneath the diaphragm in thecisterna chyli, a sac-like chamber that receives lymph from the lower abdomen, pelvis, and lower limbs by way of the left and right lumbar trunks and the intestinal trunk. FIGURE21.4 Major Trunks and Ducts of the Lymphatic System The thoracic duct drains a much larger portion of the body than does the right lymphatic duct. The overall drainage system of the body is asymmetrical (seeFigure 21.4). Theright lymphatic ductreceives lymph from only the upper right side of the body. The lymph from the rest of the body enters the bloodstream through the thoracic ductvia all the remaining lymphatic trunks. In general, lymphatic vessels of the subcutaneous tissues of the skin, that is, the superficial lymphatics, follow the same routes as veins, whereas the deep lymphatic vessels of the viscera generally follow the paths of arteries. The Organization of Immune Function The immune system is a collection of barriers, cells, and soluble proteins that interact and communicate with each other in extraordinarily
