Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the paths of arteries. The Organization of Immune Function The immune system is a collection of barriers, cells, and soluble proteins that interact and communicate with each other in extraordinarily complex ways. The modern model of immune function is organized into three phases based on the timing of their effects. The three temporal phases consist of the following: • Barrier defensessuch as the skin and mucous membranes, which act instantaneously to prevent pathogenic invasion into the body tissues • The rapid but nonspecificinnate immune response, which consists of a variety of specialized cells and soluble factors • The slower but more specific and effectiveadaptive immune response, which involves many cell types and soluble factors, but is primarily controlled by white blood cells (leukocytes) known aslymphocytes, which help control immune responses The cells of the blood, including all those involved in the immune response, arise in the bone marrow via various differentiation pathways from hematopoietic stem cells (Figure 21.5). In contrast with embryonic stem cells, hematopoietic stem cells are present throughout adulthood and allow for the continuous differentiation of blood cells to replace those lost to age or function. These cells can be divided into three classes based on function: • Phagocytic cells, which ingest pathogens to destroy them • Lymphocytes, which specifically coordinate the activities of adaptive immunity • Cells containing cytoplasmic granules, which help mediate immune responses against parasites and 898 21 • The Lymphatic and Immune System intracellular pathogens such as viruses FIGURE21.5 Hematopoietic System of the Bone Marrow All the cells of the immune response as well as of the blood arise by differentiation from hematopoietic stem cells. Platelets are cell fragments involved in the clotting of blood. Lymphocytes: B Cells, T Cells, Plasma Cells, and Natural Killer Cells As stated above, lymphocytes are the primary cells of adaptive immune responses (Table 21.1). The two basic types of lymphocytes, B cells and T cells, are identical morphologically with a large central nucleus surrounded by a thin layer of cytoplasm. They are distinguished from each other by their surface protein markers as well as by the molecules they secrete. While B cells mature in red bone marrow and T cells mature in the thymus, they both initially develop from bone marrow. T cells migrate from bone marrow to the thymus gland where they further mature. B cells and T cells are found in many parts of the body,
