Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


from bone marrow. T cells migrate from bone marrow to the thymus gland where they further mature. B cells and T cells are found in many parts of the body, circulating in the bloodstream and lymph, and residing in secondary lymphoid organs, including the spleen and lymph nodes, which will be described later in this section. The human body contains approximately 1012lymphocytes. B Cells B cellsare immune cells that function primarily by producing antibodies. Anantibodyis any of the group of proteins that binds specifically to pathogen-associated molecules known as antigens. Anantigenis a chemical structure on the surface of a pathogen that binds to T or B lymphocyte antigen receptors. Once activated by binding to antigen, B cells differentiate into cells that secrete a soluble form of their surface antibodies. These activated B cells are known as plasma cells. T Cells TheT cell, on the other hand, does not secrete antibody but performs a variety of functions in the adaptive immune response. Different T cell types have the ability to either secrete soluble factors that communicate with other cells of the adaptive immune response or destroy cells infected with intracellular pathogens. The roles of T and B Access for free at openstax.org 21.1 • Anatomy of the Lymphatic and Immune Systems 899 lymphocytes in the adaptive immune response will be discussed further in this chapter. Plasma Cells Another type of lymphocyte of importance is the plasma cell. Aplasma cellis a B cell that has differentiated in response to antigen binding, and has thereby gained the ability to secrete soluble antibodies. These cells differ in morphology from standard B and T cells in that they contain a large amount of cytoplasm packed with the protein- synthesizing machinery known as rough endoplasmic reticulum. Natural Killer Cells A fourth important lymphocyte is the natural killer cell, a participant in the innate immune response. Anatural killer cell (NK)is a circulating blood cell that contains cytotoxic (cell-killing) granules in its extensive cytoplasm. It shares this mechanism with the cytotoxic T cells of the adaptive immune response. NK cells are among the body’s first lines of defense against viruses and certain types of cancer. Lymphocytes Type of lymphocyte Primary function B lymphocyte Generates diverse antibodies T lymphocyte Secretes chemical messengers Plasma cell Secretes antibodies NK cell Destroys virally infected cells TABLE21.1 INTERACTIVE LINK Visit thiswebsite( learn about the many different cell types in the immune system and
