Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Secretes chemical messengers Plasma cell Secretes antibodies NK cell Destroys virally infected cells TABLE21.1 INTERACTIVE LINK Visit thiswebsite( learn about the many different cell types in the immune system and their very specialized jobs. What is the role of the dendritic cell in an HIV infection? Primary Lymphoid Organs and Lymphocyte Development Understanding the differentiation and development of B and T cells is critical to the understanding of the adaptive immune response. It is through this process that the body (ideally) learns to destroy only pathogens and leaves the body’s own cells relatively intact. Theprimary lymphoid organsare the bone marrow and thymus gland. The lymphoid organs are where lymphocytes mature, proliferate, and are selected, which enables them to attack pathogens without harming the cells of the body. Bone Marrow In the embryo, blood cells are made in the yolk sac. As development proceeds, this function is taken over by the spleen, lymph nodes, and liver. Later, the bone marrow takes over most hematopoietic functions, although the final stages of the differentiation of some cells may take place in other organs. The redbone marrowis a loose collection of cells where hematopoiesis occurs, and the yellow bone marrow is a site of energy storage, which consists largely of fat cells (Figure 21.6). The B cell undergoes nearly all of its development in the red bone marrow, whereas the immature T cell, called athymocyte, leaves the bone marrow and matures largely in the thymus gland. 900 21 • The Lymphatic and Immune System FIGURE21.6 Bone Marrow Red bone marrow fills the head of the femur, and a spot of yellow bone marrow is visible in the center. The white reference bar is 1 cm. Thymus Thethymusgland is a bilobed organ found in the space between the sternum and the aorta of the heart (Figure 21.7). Connective tissue holds the lobes closely together but also separates them and forms a capsule. FIGURE21.7 Location, Structure, and Histology of the Thymus The thymus lies above the heart. The trabeculae and lobules, including the darkly staining cortex and the lighter staining medulla of each lobule, are clearly visible in the light micrograph of the thymus of a newborn. LM × 100. (Micrograph provided by the Regents of the University of Michigan Medical School © 2012) INTERACTIVE LINK View theUniversity of Michigan WebScope( explore the tissue sample in greater detail. The connective tissue capsule further divides the thymus
