Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


inflammatory response that can lead to appendicitis. FIGURE21.11 Mucosa-associated Lymphoid Tissue (MALT) Nodule LM × 40. (Micrograph provided by the Regents of the University of Michigan Medical School © 2012) Bronchus-associated lymphoid tissue (BALT)consists of lymphoid follicular structures with an overlying epithelial layer found along the bifurcations of the bronchi, and between bronchi and arteries. They also have the typically less-organized structure of other lymphoid nodules. These tissues, in addition to the tonsils, are effective against inhaled pathogens. 21.2 Barrier Defenses and the Innate Immune Response LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the barrier defenses of the body • Show how the innate immune response is important and how it helps guide and prepare the body for adaptive immune responses • Describe various soluble factors that are part of the innate immune response • Explain the steps of inflammation and how they lead to destruction of a pathogen • Discuss early induced immune responses and their level of effectiveness The immune system can be divided into two overlapping mechanisms to destroy pathogens: the innate immune response, which is relatively rapid but nonspecific and thus not always effective, and the adaptive immune response, which is slower in its development during an initial infection with a pathogen, but is highly specific and effective at attacking a wide variety of pathogens (Figure 21.12). 906 21 • The Lymphatic and Immune System FIGURE21.12 Cooperation between Innate and Adaptive Immune Responses The innate immune system enhances adaptive immune responses so they can be more effective. Any discussion of the innate immune response usually begins with the physical barriers that prevent pathogens from entering the body, destroy them after they enter, or flush them out before they can establish themselves in the hospitable environment of the body’s soft tissues. Barrier defenses are part of the body’s most basic defense mechanisms. The barrier defenses are not a response to infections, but they are continuously working to protect against a broad range of pathogens. The different modes of barrier defenses are associated with the external surfaces of the body, where pathogens may try to enter (Table 21.2). The primary barrier to the entrance of microorganisms into the body is the skin. Not only is the skin covered with a layer of dead, keratinized epithelium that is too dry for bacteria in which to grow, but as these cells are
