Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the skin. Not only is the skin covered with a layer of dead, keratinized epithelium that is too dry for bacteria in which to grow, but as these cells are continuously sloughed off from the skin, they carry bacteria and other pathogens with them. Additionally, sweat and other skin secretions may lower pH, contain toxic lipids, and physically wash microbes away. Barrier Defenses Site Specific defense Protective aspect Skin Epidermal surface Keratinized cells of surface, Langerhans cells Sweat glands, sebaceous Skin (sweat/secretions) Low pH, washing action glands TABLE21.2 Access for free at openstax.org 21.2 • Barrier Defenses and the Innate Immune Response 907 Site Specific defense Protective aspect Oral cavity Salivary glands Lysozyme Stomach Gastrointestinal tract Low pH Mucosal surfaces Mucosal epithelium Nonkeratinized epithelial cells Normal flora (nonpathogenic Prevent pathogens from growing on mucosal Mucosal tissues bacteria) surfaces TABLE21.2 Another barrier is the saliva in the mouth, which is rich in lysozyme—an enzyme that destroys bacteria by digesting their cell walls. The acidic environment of the stomach, which is fatal to many pathogens, is also a barrier. Additionally, the mucus layer of the gastrointestinal tract, respiratory tract, reproductive tract, eyes, ears, and nose traps both microbes and debris, and facilitates their removal. In the case of the upper respiratory tract, ciliated epithelial cells move potentially contaminated mucus upwards to the mouth, where it is then swallowed into the digestive tract, ending up in the harsh acidic environment of the stomach. Considering how often you breathe compared to how often you eat or perform other activities that expose you to pathogens, it is not surprising that multiple barrier mechanisms have evolved to work in concert to protect this vital area. Cells of the Innate Immune Response A phagocyte is a cell that is able to surround and engulf a particle or cell, a process calledphagocytosis. The phagocytes of the immune system engulf other particles or cells, either to clean an area of debris, old cells, or to kill pathogenic organisms such as bacteria. The phagocytes are the body’s fast acting, first line of immunological defense against organisms that have breached barrier defenses and have entered the vulnerable tissues of the body. Phagocytes: Macrophages and Neutrophils Many of the cells of the immune system have a phagocytic ability, at least at some point during their life cycles. Phagocytosis is an important and effective mechanism of destroying pathogens during innate immune responses. The
