Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


cell wall components are mannose-binding protein and C-reactive protein, made in the liver, which bind specifically to polysaccharide components of the bacterial cell wall. Phagocytes such as macrophages have receptors for these proteins, and they are thus able to recognize them as they are bound to the bacteria. This brings the phagocyte and bacterium into close proximity and enhances the phagocytosis of the bacterium by the process known as opsonization.Opsonizationis the tagging of a pathogen for phagocytosis by the binding of an antibody or an antimicrobial protein. Complement System Thecomplementsystem is a series of proteins constitutively found in the blood plasma. As such, these proteins are not considered part of theearly induced immune response, even though they share features with some of the antibacterial proteins of this class. Made in the liver, they have a variety of functions in the innate immune response, using what is known as the “alternate pathway” of complement activation. Additionally, complement functions in the adaptive immune response as well, in what is called the classical pathway. The complement system consists of several proteins that enzymatically alter and fragment later proteins in a series, which is why it is termed cascade. Once activated, the series of reactions is irreversible, and releases fragments that have the following actions: • Bind to the cell membrane of the pathogen that activates it, labeling it for phagocytosis (opsonization) • Diffuse away from the pathogen and act as chemotactic agents to attract phagocytic cells to the site of inflammation • Form damaging pores in the plasma membrane of the pathogen Figure 21.13shows the classical pathway, which requires antibodies of the adaptive immune response. The alternate pathway does not require an antibody to become activated. 910 21 • The Lymphatic and Immune System FIGURE21.13 Complement Cascade and Function The classical pathway, used during adaptive immune responses, occurs when C1 reacts with antibodies that have bound an antigen. The splitting of the C3 protein is the common step to both pathways. In the alternate pathway, C3 is activated spontaneously and, after reacting with the molecules factor P, factor B, and factor D, splits apart. The larger fragment, C3b, binds to the surface of the pathogen and C3a, the smaller fragment, diffuses outward from the site of activation and attracts phagocytes to the site of infection. Surface-bound C3b then activates the rest of the cascade, with the last five proteins, C5–C9, forming the membrane-attack
