Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


and fungi that do not replicate inside the cell’s cytoplasm, are brought into the endomembrane system of the cell by receptor-mediated endocytosis. The resulting vesicle fuses with vesicles from the Golgi complex, which contain pre-formed MHC class II molecules. After fusion of these two vesicles and the association of antigen and MHC, the new vesicle makes its way to the cell surface. Professional Antigen-presenting Cells Many cell types express class I molecules for the presentation of intracellular antigens. These MHC molecules may then stimulate a cytotoxic T cell immune response, eventually destroying the cell and the pathogen within. This is especially important when it comes to the most common class of intracellular pathogens, the virus. Viruses infect nearly every tissue of the body, so all these tissues must necessarily be able to express class I MHC or no T cell response can be made. On the other hand, class II MHC molecules are expressed only on the cells of the immune system, specifically cells that affect other arms of the immune response. Thus, these cells are called “professional” antigen-presenting cells to distinguish them from those that bear class I MHC. The three types of professional antigen presenters are 916 21 • The Lymphatic and Immune System macrophages, dendritic cells, and B cells (Table 21.4). Macrophages stimulate T cells to release cytokines that enhance phagocytosis. Dendritic cells also kill pathogens by phagocytosis (seeFigure 21.17), but their major function is to bring antigens to regional draining lymph nodes. The lymph nodes are the locations in which most T cell responses against pathogens of the interstitial tissues are mounted. Macrophages are found in the skin and in the lining of mucosal surfaces, such as the nasopharynx, stomach, lungs, and intestines. B cells may also present antigens to T cells, which are necessary for certain types of antibody responses, to be covered later in this chapter. Classes of Antigen-presenting Cells MHC Cell type Phagocytic? Function Class Many No Stimulates cytotoxic T cell immune response I Class Stimulates phagocytosis and presentation at primary Macrophage Yes II infection site Class Dendritic Yes, in tissues Brings antigens to regional lymph nodes II Class Yes, internalizes surface Ig and B cell Stimulates antibody secretion by B cells II antigen TABLE21.4 T Cell Development and Differentiation The process of eliminating T cells that might attack the cells of one’s own body is referred to asT cell tolerance. While thymocytes
