Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


an important feature of the immune response, because if clonal expansion during immune responses were allowed to continue uncontrolled, these responses could lead to autoimmune diseases and other medical issues. Not only do T cells directly destroy pathogens, but they regulate nearly all other types of the adaptive immune response as well, as evidenced by the functions of the T cell types, their surface markers, the cells they work on, and the types of pathogens they work against (seeTable 21.5). Functions of T Cell Types and Their Cytokines T Main Surface Function Pathogen MHC Cytokines or mediators cell target marker Infected Class Perforins, granzymes, and fas Tc Cytotoxicity Intracellular CD8 cells I ligand Helper Class Th1 Macrophage Extracellular CD4 Interferon-γ and TGF-β inducer II Helper Class Th2 B cell Extracellular CD4 IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, and others inducer II Treg Th cell Suppressor None CD4, CD25 ? TGF-β and IL-10 TABLE21.5 21.4 The Adaptive Immune Response: B-lymphocytes and Antibodies LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Explain how B cells mature and how B cell tolerance develops • Discuss how B cells are activated and differentiate into plasma cells • Describe the structure of the antibody classes and their functions Antibodies were the first component of the adaptive immune response to be characterized by scientists working on the immune system. It was already known that individuals who survived a bacterial infection were immune to re- Access for free at openstax.org 21.4 • The Adaptive Immune Response: B-lymphocytes and Antibodies 921 infection with the same pathogen. Early microbiologists took serum from an immune patient and mixed it with a fresh culture of the same type of bacteria, then observed the bacteria under a microscope. The bacteria became clumped in a process called agglutination. When a different bacterial species was used, the agglutination did not happen. Thus, there was something in the serum of immune individuals that could specifically bind to and agglutinate bacteria. Scientists now know the cause of the agglutination is an antibody molecule, also called animmunoglobulin. What is an antibody? An antibody protein is essentially a secreted form of a B cell receptor. (In fact, surface immunoglobulin is another name for the B cell receptor.) Not surprisingly, the same genes encode both the secreted antibodies and the surface immunoglobulins. One minor difference in the way these proteins are synthesized distinguishes a naïve B
