Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


cells have over the adaptive immune response. After B cells are activated by their binding to antigen, they differentiate into plasma cells. Plasma cells often leave the secondary lymphoid organs, where the response is generated, and migrate back to the bone marrow, where the whole differentiation process started. After secreting antibodies for a specific period, they die, as most of their energy is devoted to making antibodies and not to maintaining themselves. Thus, plasma cells are said to be terminally differentiated. The final B cell of interest is the memory B cell, which results from the clonal expansion of an activated B cell. Memory B cells function in a way similar to memory T cells. They lead to a stronger and faster secondary response when compared to the primary response, as illustrated below. Antibody Structure Antibodies are glycoproteins consisting of two types of polypeptide chains with attached carbohydrates. Theheavy chainand thelight chainare the two polypeptides that form the antibody. The main differences between the classes of antibodies are in the differences between their heavy chains, but as you shall see, the light chains have an important role, forming part of the antigen-binding site on the antibody molecules. Four-chain Models of Antibody Structures All antibody molecules have two identical heavy chains and two identical light chains. (Some antibodies contain multiple units of this four-chain structure.) TheFc regionof the antibody is formed by the two heavy chains coming together, usually linked by disulfide bonds (Figure 21.21). The Fc portion of the antibody is important in that many 922 21 • The Lymphatic and Immune System effector cells of the immune system have Fc receptors. Cells having these receptors can then bind to antibody- coated pathogens, greatly increasing the specificity of the effector cells. At the other end of the molecule are two identical antigen-binding sites. FIGURE21.21 Antibody and IgG2 Structures The typical four chain structure of a generic antibody (a) and the corresponding three- dimensional structure of the antibody IgG2 (b). (credit b: modification of work by Tim Vickers) Five Classes of Antibodies and their Functions In general, antibodies have two basic functions. They can act as the B cell antigen receptor or they can be secreted, circulate, and bind to a pathogen, often labeling it for identification by other forms of the immune response. Of the five antibody classes, notice that only two can function as the antigen receptor for naïve
