Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


large roles in autoimmune responses. One explanation for the breakdown of tolerance is that, after certain bacterial infections, an immune response to a component of the bacterium cross- reacts with a self-antigen. This mechanism is seen in rheumatic fever, a result of infection withStreptococcus bacteria, which causes strep throat. The antibodies to this pathogen’s M protein cross-react with an antigenic component of heart myosin, a major contractile protein of the heart that is critical to its normal function. The antibody binds to these molecules and activates complement proteins, causing damage to the heart, especially to the heart valves. On the other hand, some theories propose that having multiple common infectious diseases actually prevents autoimmune responses. The fact that autoimmune diseases are rare in countries that have a high incidence of infectious diseases supports this idea, another example of the hygiene hypothesis discussed earlier in this chapter. There are genetic factors in autoimmune diseases as well. Some diseases are associated with the MHC genes that an individual expresses. The reason for this association is likely because if one’s MHC molecules are not able to present a certain self-antigen, then that particular autoimmune disease cannot occur. Overall, there are more than 80 different autoimmune diseases, which are a significant health problem in the elderly.Table 21.7lists several of the most common autoimmune diseases, the antigens that are targeted, and the segment of the adaptive immune response that causes the damage. Autoimmune Diseases Disease Autoantigen Symptoms Celiac disease Tissue transglutaminase Damage to small intestine Diabetes Low insulin production; inability to Beta cells of pancreas mellitus type I regulate serum glucose Graves’ Thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor (antibody blocks Hyperthyroidism disease receptor) Hashimoto’s Thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor (antibody Hypothyroidism thyroiditis mimics hormone and stimulates receptor) Lupus Nuclear DNA and proteins Damage of many body systems erythematosus TABLE21.7 934 21 • The Lymphatic and Immune System Disease Autoantigen Symptoms Myasthenia Acetylcholine receptor in neuromuscular junctions Debilitating muscle weakness gravis Rheumatoid Joint capsule antigens Chronic inflammation of joints arthritis TABLE21.7 21.7 Transplantation and Cancer Immunology LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Explain why blood typing is important and what happens when mismatched blood is used in a transfusion • Describe how tissue typing is done during organ transplantation and the role of transplant anti-rejection drugs • Show how the immune response is able to control some cancers and how this immune response
