Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


typing is done during organ transplantation and the role of transplant anti-rejection drugs • Show how the immune response is able to control some cancers and how this immune response might be enhanced by cancer vaccines The immune responses to transplanted organs and to cancer cells are both important medical issues. With the use of tissue typing and anti-rejection drugs, transplantation of organs and the control of the anti-transplant immune response have made huge strides in the past 50 years. Today, these procedures are commonplace.Tissue typingis the determination of MHC molecules in the tissue to be transplanted to better match the donor to the recipient. The immune response to cancer, on the other hand, has been more difficult to understand and control. Although it is clear that the immune system can recognize some cancers and control them, others seem to be resistant to immune mechanisms. The Rh Factor Red blood cells can be typed based on their surface antigens. ABO blood type, in which individuals are type A, B, AB, or O according to their genetics, is one example. A separate antigen system seen on red blood cells is the Rh antigen. When someone is “A positive” for example, the positive refers to the presence of the Rh antigen, whereas someone who is “A negative” would lack this molecule. An interesting consequence of Rh factor expression is seen inerythroblastosis fetalis, a hemolytic disease of the newborn (Figure 21.30). This disease occurs when people negative for Rh antigen have multiple Rh-positive children. During the birth of a first Rh-positive child, the birth parent makes a primary anti-Rh antibody response to the fetal blood cells that enter the pregnant person's bloodstream. If the same parent has a second Rh-positive child, IgG antibodies against Rh-positive blood mounted during this secondary response cross the placenta and attack the fetal blood, causing anemia. This is a consequence of the fact that the fetus is not genetically identical to the birth parent, and thus the parent is capable of mounting an immune response against it. This disease is treated with antibodies specific for Rh factor. These are given to the pregnant person during the first and subsequent births, destroying any fetal blood that might enter their system and preventing the immune response. Access for free at openstax.org 21.7 • Transplantation and Cancer Immunology 935 FIGURE21.30 Erythroblastosis Fetalis Erythroblastosis fetalis (hemolytic disease of the newborn) is the
