Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Affects the Immune Response: The Connections between the Immune, Nervous, and Endocrine Systems of the Body The immune system cannot exist in isolation. After all, it has to protect the entire body from infection. Therefore, the immune system is required to interact with other organ systems, sometimes in complex ways. Thirty years of research focusing on the connections between the immune system, the central nervous system, and the endocrine system have led to a new science with the unwieldy name of calledpsychoneuroimmunology. The physical connections between these systems have been known for centuries: All primary and secondary organs are connected to sympathetic nerves. What is more complex, though, is the interaction of neurotransmitters, hormones, cytokines, and other soluble signaling molecules, and the mechanism of “crosstalk” between the systems. For example, white blood cells, including lymphocytes and phagocytes, have receptors for various neurotransmitters released by associated neurons. Additionally, hormones such as cortisol (naturally produced by the adrenal cortex) and prednisone (synthetic) are well known for their abilities to suppress T cell immune mechanisms, hence, their prominent use in medicine as long-term, anti-inflammatory drugs. One well-established interaction of the immune, nervous, and endocrine systems is the effect of stress on immune health. In the human vertebrate evolutionary past, stress was associated with the fight-or-flight response, largely mediated by the central nervous system and the adrenal medulla. This stress was necessary for survival. The physical action of fighting or running, whichever the animal decides, usually resolves the problem in one way or another. On the other hand, there are no physical actions to resolve most modern day stresses, including short-term stressors like taking examinations and long-term stressors such as being unemployed or losing a spouse. The effect of stress can be felt by nearly every organ system, and the immune system is no exception (Table 21.10). Effects of Stress on Body Systems System Stress-related illness Integumentary system Acne, rashes, irritation Headaches, depression, anxiety, irritability, loss of appetite, lack of motivation, Nervous system reduced mental performance Muscular and skeletal Muscle and joint pain, neck and shoulder pain systems Circulatory system Increased heart rate, hypertension, increased probability of heart attacks Indigestion, heartburn, stomach pain, nausea, diarrhea, constipation, weight gain Digestive system or loss Immune system Depressed ability to fight infections Male reproductive Lowered sperm production, impotence, reduced sexual desire system Female reproductive Irregular menstrual cycle, reduced sexual desire system TABLE21.10 Access for free at openstax.org
