Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


sensitization first exposure to an antigen type I hypersensitivity immediate response seroconversion clearance of pathogen in the serum mediated by mast cell degranulation caused by the and the simultaneous rise of serum antibody crosslinking of the antigen-specific IgE molecules severe combined immunodeficiency disease (SCID) on the mast cell surface genetic mutation that affects both T cell and B cell type II hypersensitivity cell damage caused by the arms of the immune response binding of antibody and the activation of spleen secondary lymphoid organ that filters complement, usually against red blood cells pathogens from the blood (white pulp) and removes type III hypersensitivity damage to tissues caused degenerating or damaged blood cells (red pulp) by the deposition of antibody-antigen (immune) T cell lymphocyte that acts by secreting molecules complexes followed by the activation of that regulate the immune system or by causing the complement destruction of foreign cells, viruses, and cancer cells variable region domain part of a lymphocyte antigen T cell tolerance process during T cell differentiation receptor that varies considerably between different where most T cells that recognize antigens from receptor types Chapter Review 21.1Anatomy of the Lymphatic and for and then protect against pathogens. Immune Systems 21.2Barrier Defenses and the Innate The lymphatic system is a series of vessels, ducts, and Immune Response trunks that remove interstitial fluid from the tissues Innate immune responses are critical to the early and return it the blood. The lymphatics are also used to control of infections. Whereas barrier defenses are the transport dietary lipids and cells of the immune body’s first line of physical defense against pathogens, system. Cells of the immune system all come from the innate immune responses are the first line of hematopoietic system of the bone marrow. Primary physiological defense. Innate responses occur rapidly, lymphoid organs, the bone marrow and thymus gland, but with less specificity and effectiveness than the are the locations where lymphocytes of the adaptive adaptive immune response. Innate responses can be immune system proliferate and mature. Secondary caused by a variety of cells, mediators, and lymphoid organs are site in which mature lymphocytes antibacterial proteins such as complement. Within the congregate to mount immune responses. Many first few days of an infection, another series of immune system cells use the lymphatic and circulatory antibacterial proteins are induced, each with activities systems for transport throughout the body to search Access for free at openstax.org
