Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


series of immune system cells use the lymphatic and circulatory antibacterial proteins are induced, each with activities systems for transport throughout the body to search Access for free at openstax.org 21 • Interactive Link Questions 943 against certain bacteria, including opsonization of proteins, whereas viruses are taken care of by certain species. Additionally, interferons are induced interferons and cytotoxic T cells. Worms are attacked that protect cells from viruses in their vicinity. Finally, by eosinophils. Pathogens have shown the ability, the innate immune response does not stop when the however, to evade the body’s immune responses, some adaptive immune response is developed. In fact, both leading to chronic infections or even death. The can cooperate and one can influence the other in their immune system and pathogens are in a slow, responses against pathogens. evolutionary race to see who stays on top. Modern medicine, hopefully, will keep the results skewed in 21.3The Adaptive Immune Response: T humans’ favor. lymphocytes and Their Functional Types 21.6Diseases Associated with Depressed T cells recognize antigens with their antigen receptor, a or Overactive Immune Responses complex of two protein chains on their surface. They do not recognize self-antigens, however, but only The immune response can be under-reactive or over- processed antigen presented on their surfaces in a reactive. Suppressed immunity can result from binding groove of a major histocompatibility complex inherited genetic defects or by acquiring viruses. Over- molecule. T cells develop in the thymus, where they reactive immune responses include the learn to use self-MHC molecules to recognize only hypersensitivities: B cell- and T cell-mediated immune foreign antigens, thus making them tolerant to self- responses designed to control pathogens, but that lead antigens. There are several functional types of T to symptoms or medical complications. The worst lymphocytes, the major ones being helper, regulatory, cases of over-reactive immune responses are and cytotoxic T cells. autoimmune diseases, where an individual’s immune system attacks their own body because of the 21.4The Adaptive Immune Response: B- breakdown of immunological tolerance. These lymphocytes and Antibodies diseases are more common in the aged, so treating B cells, which develop within the bone marrow, are them will be a challenge in the future as the aged responsible for making five different classes of population in the world increases. antibodies, each with its own functions. B cells have 21.7Transplantation and Cancer their own mechanisms for tolerance, but in peripheral Immunology tolerance,
