Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


different classes of population in the world increases. antibodies, each with its own functions. B cells have 21.7Transplantation and Cancer their own mechanisms for tolerance, but in peripheral Immunology tolerance, the B cells that leave the bone marrow remain inactive due to T cell tolerance. Some B cells do Blood transfusion and organ transplantation both not need T cell cytokines to make antibody, and they require an understanding of the immune response to bypass this need by the crosslinking of their surface prevent medical complications. Blood needs to be immunoglobulin by repeated carbohydrate residues typed so that natural antibodies against mismatched found in the cell walls of many bacterial species. blood will not destroy it, causing more harm than good Others require T cells to become activated. to the recipient. Transplanted organs must be matched by their MHC molecules and, with the use of 21.5The Immune Response against immunosuppressive drugs, can be successful even if an Pathogens exact tissue match cannot be made. Another aspect to Early childhood is a time when the body develops the immune response is its ability to control and much of its immunological memory that protects it eradicate cancer. Although this has been shown to from diseases in adulthood. The components of the occur with some rare cancers and those caused by immune response that have the maximum known viruses, the normal immune response to most effectiveness against a pathogen are often associated cancers is not sufficient to control cancer growth. Thus, with the class of pathogen involved. Bacteria and fungi cancer vaccines designed to enhance these immune are especially susceptible to damage by complement responses show promise for certain types of cancer. Interactive Link Questions 1. Visit thiswebsite( 2. Visit thiswebsite( lymphsystem)for an overview of the lymphatic immunecells)to learn about the many different cell system. What are the three main components of the types in the immune system and their very lymphatic system? specialized jobs. What is the role of the dendritic cell in infection by HIV? 944 21 • Review Questions 3. Visit thiswebsite( 4. Immunity can be acquired in an active or passive chemotaxis)to learn about phagocyte chemotaxis. way, and it can be natural or artificial. Watch this Phagocyte chemotaxis is the movement of video( see an phagocytes according to the secretion of chemical animated discussion of passive and active messengers in the form of interleukins and other immunity. What is an
