Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


c. antibiotics d. aspirin 946 21 • Critical Thinking Questions 34. Which of the following terms means “many 37. How does cyclosporine A work? genes”? a. suppresses antibodies a. polymorphism b. suppresses T cells b. polygeny c. suppresses macrophages c. polypeptide d. suppresses neutrophils d. multiple alleles 38. What disease is associated with bone marrow 35. Why do we have natural antibodies? transplants? a. We don’t know why. a. diabetes mellitus type I b. immunity to environmental bacteria b. melanoma c. immunity to transplants c. headache d. from clonal selection d. graft-versus-host disease 36. Which type of cancer is associated with HIV disease? a. Kaposi’s sarcoma b. melanoma c. lymphoma d. renal cell carcinoma Critical Thinking Questions 39. Describe the flow of lymph from its origins in 45. Describe the role of IgM in immunity. interstitial fluid to its emptying into the venous 46. Describe how seroconversion works in HIV bloodstream. disease. 40. Describe the process of inflammation in an area 47. Describe tuberculosis and the innocent bystander that has been traumatized, but not infected. effect. 41. Describe two early induced responses and what 48. Describe anaphylactic shock in someone sensitive pathogens they affect. to peanuts? 42. Describe the processing and presentation of an 49. Describe rheumatic fever and how tolerance is intracellular antigen. broken. 43. Describe clonal selection and expansion. 50. Describe how stress affects immune responses. 44. Describe how secondary B cell responses are developed. Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 22 The Respiratory System Figure22.1 Mountain ClimbersThe thin air at high elevations can strain the human respiratory system. (credit: “bortescristian”/flickr.com) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • List the structures of the respiratory system • List the major functions of the respiratory system • Outline the forces that allow for air movement into and out of the lungs • Outline the process of gas exchange • Summarize the process of oxygen and carbon dioxide transport within the respiratory system • Create a flow chart illustrating how respiration is controlled • Discuss how the respiratory system responds to exercise • Describe the development of the respiratory system in the embryo INTRODUCTION Hold your breath. Really! See how long you can hold your breath as you continue reading…How long can you do it? Chances are you are feeling uncomfortable already. A typical human cannot survive without breathing for more than 3 minutes, and even
