Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the respiratory system includes the organs and structures not directly involved in gas exchange. The gas exchange occurs in therespiratory zone. Conducting Zone The major functions of the conducting zone are to provide a route for incoming and outgoing air, remove debris and pathogens from the incoming air, and warm and humidify the incoming air. Several structures within the conducting zone perform other functions as well. The epithelium of the nasal passages, for example, is essential to sensing odors, and the bronchial epithelium that lines the lungs can metabolize some airborne carcinogens. The Nose and its Adjacent Structures The major entrance and exit for the respiratory system is through the nose. When discussing the nose, it is helpful to divide it into two major sections: the external nose, and the nasal cavity or internal nose. Theexternal noseconsists of the surface and skeletal structures that result in the outward appearance of the nose and contribute to its numerous functions (Figure 22.3). Therootis the region of the nose located between the eyebrows. Thebridgeis the part of the nose that connects the root to the rest of the nose. Thedorsum nasiis the length of the nose. Theapexis the tip of the nose. On either side of the apex, the nostrils are formed by the alae (singular = ala). Analais a cartilaginous structure that forms the lateral side of eachnaris(plural = nares), or nostril opening. Thephiltrumis the concave surface that connects the apex of the nose to the upper lip. Access for free at openstax.org 22.1 • Organs and Structures of the Respiratory System 949 FIGURE22.3 Nose This illustration shows features of the external nose (top) and skeletal features of the nose (bottom). Underneath the thin skin of the nose are its skeletal features (seeFigure 22.3, lower illustration). While the root and bridge of the nose consist of bone, the protruding portion of the nose is composed of cartilage. As a result, when looking at a skull, the nose is missing. Thenasal boneis one of a pair of bones that lies under the root and bridge of the nose. The nasal bone articulates superiorly with the frontal bone and laterally with the maxillary bones. Septal cartilage is flexible hyaline cartilage connected to the nasal bone, forming the dorsum nasi. Thealar cartilage consists of the apex of the nose; it surrounds the naris. The nares open into the nasal cavity, which is separated into left
