Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the size of the tubing to increase or decrease airflow through the tube. Respiratory Zone In contrast to the conducting zone, the respiratory zone includes structures that are directly involved in gas exchange. The respiratory zone begins where the terminal bronchioles join arespiratory bronchiole, the smallest type of bronchiole (Figure 22.10), which then leads to an alveolar duct, opening into a cluster of alveoli. 956 22 • The Respiratory System FIGURE22.10 Respiratory Zone Bronchioles lead to alveolar sacs in the respiratory zone, where gas exchange occurs. Alveoli Analveolar ductis a tube composed of smooth muscle and connective tissue, which opens into a cluster of alveoli. Analveolusis one of the many small, grape-like sacs that are attached to the alveolar ducts. Analveolar sacis a cluster of many individual alveoli that are responsible for gas exchange. An alveolus is approximately 200 μm in diameter with elastic walls that allow the alveolus to stretch during air intake, which greatly increases the surface area available for gas exchange. Alveoli are connected to their neighbors byalveolar pores, which help maintain equal air pressure throughout the alveoli and lung (Figure 22.11). Access for free at openstax.org 22.1 • Organs and Structures of the Respiratory System 957 FIGURE22.11 Structures of the Respiratory Zone (a) The alveolus is responsible for gas exchange. (b) A micrograph shows the alveolar structures within lung tissue. LM × 178. (Micrograph provided by the Regents of University of Michigan Medical School © 2012) The alveolar wall consists of three major cell types: type I alveolar cells, type II alveolar cells, and alveolar macrophages. Atype I alveolar cellis a squamous epithelial cell of the alveoli, which constitute up to 97 percent of the alveolar surface area. These cells are about 25 nm thick and are highly permeable to gases. Atype II alveolar cellis interspersed among the type I cells and secretespulmonary surfactant, a substance composed of phospholipids and proteins that reduces the surface tension of the alveoli. Roaming around the alveolar wall is the alveolar macrophage, a phagocytic cell of the immune system that removes debris and pathogens that have reached the alveoli. The simple squamous epithelium formed by type I alveolar cells is attached to a thin, elastic basement membrane. This epithelium is extremely thin and borders the endothelial membrane of capillaries. Taken together, the alveoli and capillary membranes form arespiratory membranethat is approximately 0.5 μm (micrometers) thick. The respiratory membrane allows gases
