Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


via a nebulizer. In many cases, the underlying cause of the condition is unknown. However, recent research has demonstrated that certain viruses, such as human rhinovirus C (HRVC), and the bacteriaMycoplasma pneumoniaeand Chlamydia pneumoniaethat are contracted in infancy or early childhood, may contribute to the development of many cases of asthma. INTERACTIVE LINK Visit thissite( learn more about what happens during an asthma attack. What are the three changes that occur inside the airways during an asthma attack? Access for free at openstax.org 22.2 • The Lungs 959 22.2 The Lungs LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the overall function of the lung • Summarize the blood flow pattern associated with the lungs • Outline the anatomy of the blood supply to the lungs • Describe the pleura of the lungs and their function A major organ of the respiratory system, eachlunghouses structures of both the conducting and respiratory zones. The main function of the lungs is to perform the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide with air from the atmosphere. To this end, the lungs exchange respiratory gases across a very large epithelial surface area—about 70 square meters—that is highly permeable to gases. Gross Anatomy of the Lungs The lungs are pyramid-shaped, paired organs that are connected to the trachea by the right and left bronchi; on the inferior surface, the lungs are bordered by the diaphragm. The diaphragm is a dome-shaped muscle located at the base of the lungs and thoracic cavity. The lungs are enclosed by the pleurae, which are attached to the mediastinum. The right lung is shorter and wider than the left lung, and the left lung occupies a smaller volume than the right. The cardiac notchis an indentation on the surface of the left lung, and it allows space for the heart (Figure 22.13). The apex of the lung is the superior region, whereas the base is the opposite region near the diaphragm. The costal surface of the lung borders the ribs. The mediastinal surface faces the midline. FIGURE22.13 Gross Anatomy of the Lungs Each lung is composed of smaller units called lobes. Fissures separate these lobes from each other. The right lung consists of three lobes: the superior, middle, and inferior lobes. The left lung consists of two lobes: the superior and inferior lobes. A bronchopulmonary segment is a division of a lobe, and
