Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


are four major types of respiratory volumes: tidal, residual, inspiratory reserve, and expiratory reserve (Figure 22.18).Tidal volume (TV)is the amount of air that normally enters the lungs during quiet breathing, which is about 500 milliliters.Expiratory reserve volume (ERV)is the amount of air you can forcefully exhale past a normal tidal expiration, up to 1200 milliliters for males.Inspiratory reserve volume (IRV)is produced by a deep inhalation, past a tidal inspiration. This is the extra volume that can be brought into the lungs during a forced inspiration.Residual volume (RV)is the air left in the lungs if you exhale as much air as possible. The residual volume makes breathing easier by preventing the alveoli from collapsing. Respiratory volume is 966 22 • The Respiratory System dependent on a variety of factors, and measuring the different types of respiratory volumes can provide important clues about a person’s respiratory health (Figure 22.19). FIGURE22.18 Respiratory Volumes and Capacities These two graphs show (a) respiratory volumes and (b) the combination of volumes that results in respiratory capacity. FIGURE22.19 Pulmonary Function Testing Respiratory capacity is the combination of two or more selected volumes, which further describes the amount of air in the lungs during a given time. For example,total lung capacity (TLC)is the sum of all of the lung volumes (TV, ERV, IRV, and RV), which represents the total amount of air a person can hold in the lungs after a forceful inhalation. TLC is about 6000 mL air for males, and about 4200 mL for females.Vital capacity (VC)is the amount of air a person can move into or out of their lungs, and is the sum of all of the volumes except residual volume (TV, ERV, and IRV), which is between 4000 and 5000 milliliters.Inspiratory capacity (IC)is the maximum amount of air that can be inhaled past a normal tidal expiration, is the sum of the tidal volume and inspiratory reserve volume. On the other hand, thefunctional residual capacity (FRC)is the amount of air that remains in the lung after a normal tidal expiration; it is the sum of expiratory reserve volume and residual volume (seeFigure 22.18). INTERACTIVE LINK Watch thisvideo( learn more about lung volumes and spirometers. Explain how spirometry test results can be used to diagnose respiratory diseases or determine the effectiveness of disease treatment. Access for free at openstax.org 22.3 • The Process of Breathing 967 In addition to the air that creates respiratory
