Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


diagnose respiratory diseases or determine the effectiveness of disease treatment. Access for free at openstax.org 22.3 • The Process of Breathing 967 In addition to the air that creates respiratory volumes, the respiratory system also containsanatomical dead space, which is air that is present in the airway that never reaches the alveoli and therefore never participates in gas exchange.Alveolar dead spaceinvolves air found within alveoli that are unable to function, such as those affected by disease or abnormal blood flow.Total dead spaceis the anatomical dead space and alveolar dead space together, and represents all of the air in the respiratory system that is not being used in the gas exchange process. Respiratory Rate and Control of Ventilation Breathing usually occurs without thought, although at times you can consciously control it, such as when you swim under water, sing a song, or blow bubbles. Therespiratory rateis the total number of breaths, or respiratory cycles, that occur each minute. Respiratory rate can be an important indicator of disease, as the rate may increase or decrease during an illness or in a disease condition. The respiratory rate is controlled by the respiratory center located within the medulla oblongata in the brain, which responds primarily to changes in carbon dioxide, oxygen, and pH levels in the blood. The normal respiratory rate of a child decreases from birth to adolescence. A child under 1 year of age has a normal respiratory rate between 30 and 60 breaths per minute, but by the time a child is about 10 years old, the normal rate is closer to 18 to 30. By adolescence, the normal respiratory rate is similar to that of adults, 12 to 18 breaths per minute. Ventilation Control Centers The control of ventilation is a complex interplay of multiple regions in the brain that signal the muscles used in pulmonary ventilation to contract (Table 22.1). The result is typically a rhythmic, consistent ventilation rate that provides the body with sufficient amounts of oxygen, while adequately removing carbon dioxide. Summary of Ventilation Regulation System component Function Medullary respiratory center Sets the basic rhythm of breathing Ventral respiratory group Generates the breathing rhythm and integrates data coming into the medulla (VRG) Dorsal respiratory group Integrates input from the stretch receptors and the chemoreceptors in the (DRG) periphery Pontine respiratory group Influences and modifies the medulla oblongata’s functions (PRG) Aortic body Monitors blood PCO , PO ,
