Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


from the stretch receptors and the chemoreceptors in the (DRG) periphery Pontine respiratory group Influences and modifies the medulla oblongata’s functions (PRG) Aortic body Monitors blood PCO , PO , and pH 2 2 Carotid body Monitors blood PCO , PO , and pH 2 2 Hypothalamus Monitors emotional state and body temperature Cortical areas of the brain Control voluntary breathing Proprioceptors Send impulses regarding joint and muscle movements Pulmonary irritant reflexes Protect the respiratory zones of the system from foreign material Inflation reflex Protects the lungs from over-inflating TABLE22.1 968 22 • The Respiratory System Neurons that innervate the muscles of the respiratory system are responsible for controlling and regulating pulmonary ventilation. The major brain centers involved in pulmonary ventilation are the medulla oblongata and the pontine respiratory group (Figure 22.20). FIGURE22.20 Respiratory Centers of the Brain The medulla oblongata contains thedorsal respiratory group (DRG)and theventral respiratory group (VRG). The DRG is involved in maintaining a constant breathing rhythm by stimulating the diaphragm and intercostal muscles to contract, resulting in inspiration. When activity in the DRG ceases, it no longer stimulates the diaphragm and intercostals to contract, allowing them to relax, resulting in expiration. The VRG is involved in forced breathing, as the neurons in the VRG stimulate the accessory muscles involved in forced breathing to contract, resulting in forced inspiration. The VRG also stimulates the accessory muscles involved in forced expiration to contract. The second respiratory center of the brain is located within the pons, called the pontine respiratory group, and consists of the apneustic and pneumotaxic centers. Theapneustic centeris a double cluster of neuronal cell bodies that stimulate neurons in the DRG, controlling the depth of inspiration, particularly for deep breathing. The pneumotaxic centeris a network of neurons that inhibits the activity of neurons in the DRG, allowing relaxation after inspiration, and thus controlling the overall rate. Access for free at openstax.org 22.3 • The Process of Breathing 969 Factors That Affect the Rate and Depth of Respiration The respiratory rate and the depth of inspiration are regulated by the medulla oblongata and pons; however, these regions of the brain do so in response to systemic stimuli. It is a dose-response, negative-feedback relationship in which the greater the stimulus, the greater the response. Thus, increasing stimuli results in forced breathing. Multiple systemic factors are involved in stimulating the brain to produce pulmonary ventilation. The major factor that
