Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


internal respiration The purpose of the respiratory system is to perform gas exchange. Pulmonary ventilation provides air to the alveoli for this gas exchange process. At the respiratory membrane, where the alveolar and capillary walls meet, gases move across the membranes, with oxygen entering the bloodstream and carbon dioxide exiting. It is through this mechanism that blood is oxygenated and carbon dioxide, the waste product of cellular respiration, is removed from the body. Gas Exchange In order to understand the mechanisms of gas exchange in the lung, it is important to understand the underlying principles of gases and their behavior. In addition to Boyle’s law, several other gas laws help to describe the behavior of gases. Gas Laws and Air Composition Gas molecules exert force on the surfaces with which they are in contact; this force is called pressure. In natural systems, gases are normally present as a mixture of different types of molecules. For example, the atmosphere consists of oxygen, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, and other gaseous molecules, and this gaseous mixture exerts a certain pressure referred to as atmospheric pressure (Table 22.2).Partial pressure(P) is the pressure of a single x type of gas in a mixture of gases. For example, in the atmosphere, oxygen exerts a partial pressure, and nitrogen exerts another partial pressure, independent of the partial pressure of oxygen (Figure 22.21).Total pressureis the sum of all the partial pressures of a gaseous mixture.Dalton’s lawdescribes the behavior of nonreactive gases in a Access for free at openstax.org 22.4 • Gas Exchange 971 gaseous mixture and states that a specific gas type in a mixture exerts its own pressure; thus, the total pressure exerted by a mixture of gases is the sum of the partial pressures of the gases in the mixture. Partial Pressures of Atmospheric Gases Partial pressure Gas Percent of total composition (mm Hg) Nitrogen (N ) 78.6 597.4 2 Oxygen (O ) 20.9 158.8 2 Water (H O) 0.4 3.0 2 Carbon dioxide (CO ) 0.04 0.3 2 Others 0.06 0.5 Total composition/total atmospheric pressure 100% 760.0 TABLE22.2 FIGURE22.21 Partial and Total Pressures of a Gas Partial pressure is the force exerted by a gas. The sum of the partial pressures of all the gases in a mixture equals the total pressure. Partial pressure is extremely important in predicting the movement of gases. Recall that gases tend to equalize their pressure in two regions that are
