Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


prevented by slowly ascending to the desired altitude, allowing the body to acclimate, as well as maintaining proper hydration. Acclimatization Especially in situations where the ascent occurs too quickly, traveling to areas of high altitude can cause AMS. Acclimatizationis the process of adjustment that the respiratory system makes due to chronic exposure to a high altitude. Over a period of time, the body adjusts to accommodate the lower partial pressure of oxygen. The low partial pressure of oxygen at high altitudes results in a lower oxygen saturation level of hemoglobin in the blood. In Access for free at openstax.org 22.7 • Embryonic Development of the Respiratory System 983 turn, the tissue levels of oxygen are also lower. As a result, the kidneys are stimulated to produce the hormone erythropoietin (EPO), which stimulates the production of erythrocytes, resulting in a greater number of circulating erythrocytes in an individual at a high altitude over a long period. With more red blood cells, there is more hemoglobin to help transport the available oxygen. Even though there is low saturation of each hemoglobin molecule, there will be more hemoglobin present, and therefore more oxygen in the blood. Over time, this allows the person to partake in physical exertion without developing AMS. 22.7 Embryonic Development of the Respiratory System LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Create a timeline of the phases of respiratory development in the fetus • Propose reasons for fetal breathing movements • Explain how the lungs become inflated after birth Development of the respiratory system begins early in the fetus. It is a complex process that includes many structures, most of which arise from the endoderm. Towards the end of development, the fetus can be observed making breathing movements. Until birth, however, the pregnant person provides all of the oxygen to the fetus as well as removes all of the fetal carbon dioxide via the placenta. Time Line The development of the respiratory system begins at about week 4 of gestation. By week 28, enough alveoli have matured that a baby born prematurely at this time can usually breathe on its own. The respiratory system, however, is not fully developed until early childhood, when a full complement of mature alveoli is present. Weeks 4–7 Respiratory development in the embryo begins around week 4. Ectodermal tissue from the anterior head region invaginates posteriorly to form
