Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


of the folded region of the glottis minute composed of mucous membrane; supports the respiratory volume varying amounts of air within the epiglottis during swallowing lung at a given time visceral pleura innermost layer of the pleura that is respiratory zone includes structures of the superficial to the lungs and extends into the lung respiratory system that are directly involved in gas fissures exchange vital capacity (VC) sum of TV, ERV, and IRV, which is root region of the external nose between the all the volumes that participate in gas exchange eyebrows Chapter Review 22.1Organs and Structures of the divided into two major areas: the conducting zone and Respiratory System the respiratory zone. The conducting zone consists of all of the structures that provide passageways for air to The respiratory system is responsible for obtaining travel into and out of the lungs: the nasal cavity, oxygen and getting rid of carbon dioxide, and aiding in pharynx, trachea, bronchi, and most bronchioles. The speech production and in sensing odors. From a nasal passages contain the conchae and meatuses that functional perspective, the respiratory system can be Access for free at openstax.org 22 • Chapter Review 989 expand the surface area of the cavity, which helps to lungs and the atmosphere. Atmospheric pressure is the warm and humidify incoming air, while removing debris force exerted by gases present in the atmosphere. The and pathogens. The pharynx is composed of three force exerted by gases within the alveoli is called intra- major sections: the nasopharynx, which is continuous alveolar (intrapulmonary) pressure, whereas the force with the nasal cavity; the oropharynx, which borders exerted by gases in the pleural cavity is called the nasopharynx and the oral cavity; and the intrapleural pressure. Typically, intrapleural pressure is laryngopharynx, which borders the oropharynx, lower, or negative to, intra-alveolar pressure. The trachea, and esophagus. The respiratory zone includes difference in pressure between intrapleural and intra- the structures of the lung that are directly involved in alveolar pressures is called transpulmonary pressure. gas exchange: the terminal bronchioles and alveoli. In addition, intra-alveolar pressure will equalize with the atmospheric pressure. Pressure is determined by The lining of the conducting zone is composed mostly the volume of the space occupied by a gas and is of pseudostratified ciliated columnar epithelium with influenced by resistance. Air flows when a pressure goblet cells. The mucus traps pathogens and debris, gradient is created,
