Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


by a gas and is of pseudostratified ciliated columnar epithelium with influenced by resistance. Air flows when a pressure goblet cells. The mucus traps pathogens and debris, gradient is created, from a space of higher pressure to whereas beating cilia move the mucus superiorly a space of lower pressure. Boyle’s law describes the toward the throat, where it is swallowed. As the relationship between volume and pressure. A gas is at bronchioles become smaller and smaller, and nearer lower pressure in a larger volume because the gas the alveoli, the epithelium thins and is simple molecules have more space to in which to move. The squamous epithelium in the alveoli. The endothelium same quantity of gas in a smaller volume results in gas of the surrounding capillaries, together with the molecules crowding together, producing increased alveolar epithelium, forms the respiratory membrane. pressure. This is a blood-air barrier through which gas exchange occurs by simple diffusion. Resistance is created by inelastic surfaces, as well as the diameter of the airways. Resistance reduces the 22.2The Lungs flow of gases. The surface tension of the alveoli also The lungs are the major organs of the respiratory influences pressure, as it opposes the expansion of the system and are responsible for performing gas alveoli. However, pulmonary surfactant helps to reduce exchange. The lungs are paired and separated into the surface tension so that the alveoli do not collapse lobes; The left lung consists of two lobes, whereas the during expiration. The ability of the lungs to stretch, right lung consists of three lobes. Blood circulation is called lung compliance, also plays a role in gas flow. very important, as blood is required to transport The more the lungs can stretch, the greater the oxygen from the lungs to other tissues throughout the potential volume of the lungs. The greater the volume body. The function of the pulmonary circulation is to of the lungs, the lower the air pressure within the aid in gas exchange. The pulmonary artery provides lungs. deoxygenated blood to the capillaries that form Pulmonary ventilation consists of the process of respiratory membranes with the alveoli, and the inspiration (or inhalation), where air enters the lungs, pulmonary veins return newly oxygenated blood to the and expiration (or exhalation), where air leaves the heart for further transport throughout the body. The lungs. During inspiration, the diaphragm and external lungs are innervated by the
