Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


to the and expiration (or exhalation), where air leaves the heart for further transport throughout the body. The lungs. During inspiration, the diaphragm and external lungs are innervated by the parasympathetic and intercostal muscles contract, causing the rib cage to sympathetic nervous systems, which coordinate the expand and move outward, and expanding the thoracic bronchodilation and bronchoconstriction of the cavity and lung volume. This creates a lower pressure airways. The lungs are enclosed by the pleura, a within the lung than that of the atmosphere, causing air membrane that is composed of visceral and parietal to be drawn into the lungs. During expiration, the pleural layers. The space between these two layers is diaphragm and intercostals relax, causing the thorax called the pleural cavity. The mesothelial cells of the and lungs to recoil. The air pressure within the lungs pleural membrane create pleural fluid, which serves as increases to above the pressure of the atmosphere, both a lubricant (to reduce friction during breathing) causing air to be forced out of the lungs. However, and as an adhesive to adhere the lungs to the thoracic during forced exhalation, the internal intercostals and wall (to facilitate movement of the lungs during abdominal muscles may be involved in forcing air out of ventilation). the lungs. 22.3The Process of Breathing Respiratory volume describes the amount of air in a Pulmonary ventilation is the process of breathing, given space within the lungs, or which can be moved by which is driven by pressure differences between the the lung, and is dependent on a variety of factors. Tidal 990 22 • Chapter Review volume refers to the amount of air that enters the lungs pressure of oxygen in the alveoli. If ventilation is during quiet breathing, whereas inspiratory reserve insufficient and the partial pressure of oxygen drops in volume is the amount of air that enters the lungs when the alveolar air, the capillary is constricted and blood a person inhales past the tidal volume. Expiratory flow is redirected to alveoli with sufficient ventilation. reserve volume is the extra amount of air that can leave External respiration refers to gas exchange that occurs with forceful expiration, following tidal expiration. in the alveoli, whereas internal respiration refers to gas Residual volume is the amount of air that is left in the exchange that occurs in the tissue. Both are driven by lungs after expelling the expiratory reserve
