Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


to gas Residual volume is the amount of air that is left in the exchange that occurs in the tissue. Both are driven by lungs after expelling the expiratory reserve volume. partial pressure differences. Respiratory capacity is the combination of two or more 22.5Transport of Gases volumes. Anatomical dead space refers to the air within the respiratory structures that never participates Oxygen is primarily transported through the blood by in gas exchange, because it does not reach functional erythrocytes. These cells contain a metalloprotein alveoli. Respiratory rate is the number of breaths taken called hemoglobin, which is composed of four subunits per minute, which may change during certain diseases with a ring-like structure. Each subunit contains one or conditions. atom of iron bound to a molecule of heme. Heme binds oxygen so that each hemoglobin molecule can bind up Both respiratory rate and depth are controlled by the to four oxygen molecules. When all of the heme units in respiratory centers of the brain, which are stimulated the blood are bound to oxygen, hemoglobin is by factors such as chemical and pH changes in the considered to be saturated. Hemoglobin is partially blood. These changes are sensed by central saturated when only some heme units are bound to chemoreceptors, which are located in the brain, and oxygen. An oxygen–hemoglobin saturation/dissociation peripheral chemoreceptors, which are located in the curve is a common way to depict the relationship of aortic arch and carotid arteries. A rise in carbon dioxide how easily oxygen binds to or dissociates from or a decline in oxygen levels in the blood stimulates an hemoglobin as a function of the partial pressure of increase in respiratory rate and depth. oxygen. As the partial pressure of oxygen increases, 22.4Gas Exchange the more readily hemoglobin binds to oxygen. At the same time, once one molecule of oxygen is bound by The behavior of gases can be explained by the hemoglobin, additional oxygen molecules more readily principles of Dalton’s law and Henry’s law, both of bind to hemoglobin. Other factors such as which describe aspects of gas exchange. Dalton’s law temperature, pH, the partial pressure of carbon states that each specific gas in a mixture of gases dioxide, and the concentration of exerts force (its partial pressure) independently of the 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate can enhance or inhibit the other gases in the mixture. Henry’s law states that the binding of hemoglobin and oxygen
