Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


of exerts force (its partial pressure) independently of the 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate can enhance or inhibit the other gases in the mixture. Henry’s law states that the binding of hemoglobin and oxygen as well. Fetal amount of a specific gas that dissolves in a liquid is a hemoglobin has a different structure than adult function of its partial pressure. The greater the partial hemoglobin, which results in fetal hemoglobin having a pressure of a gas, the more of that gas will dissolve in a greater affinity for oxygen than adult hemoglobin. liquid, as the gas moves toward equilibrium. Gas molecules move down a pressure gradient; in other Carbon dioxide is transported in blood by three words, gas moves from a region of high pressure to a different mechanisms: as dissolved carbon dioxide, as region of low pressure. The partial pressure of oxygen bicarbonate, or as carbaminohemoglobin. A small is high in the alveoli and low in the blood of the portion of carbon dioxide remains. The largest amount pulmonary capillaries. As a result, oxygen diffuses of transported carbon dioxide is as bicarbonate, across the respiratory membrane from the alveoli into formed in erythrocytes. For this conversion, carbon the blood. In contrast, the partial pressure of carbon dioxide is combined with water with the aid of an dioxide is high in the pulmonary capillaries and low in enzyme called carbonic anhydrase. This combination the alveoli. Therefore, carbon dioxide diffuses across forms carbonic acid, which spontaneously dissociates the respiratory membrane from the blood into the into bicarbonate and hydrogen ions. As bicarbonate alveoli. The amount of oxygen and carbon dioxide that builds up in erythrocytes, it is moved across the diffuses across the respiratory membrane is similar. membrane into the plasma in exchange for chloride ions by a mechanism called the chloride shift. At the Ventilation is the process that moves air into and out of pulmonary capillaries, bicarbonate re-enters the alveoli, and perfusion affects the flow of blood in erythrocytes in exchange for chloride ions, and the the capillaries. Both are important in gas exchange, as reaction with carbonic anhydrase is reversed, ventilation must be sufficient to create a high partial recreating carbon dioxide and water. Carbon dioxide Access for free at openstax.org 22 • Interactive Link Questions 991 then diffuses out of the erythrocyte and across the levels of oxygen will cause the kidneys to produce respiratory membrane into the air. An
