Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


22 • Interactive Link Questions 991 then diffuses out of the erythrocyte and across the levels of oxygen will cause the kidneys to produce respiratory membrane into the air. An intermediate greater amounts of the hormone erythropoietin, which amount of carbon dioxide binds directly to hemoglobin stimulates the production of erythrocytes. Increased to form carbaminohemoglobin. The partial pressures of levels of circulating erythrocytes provide an increased carbon dioxide and oxygen, as well as the oxygen amount of hemoglobin that helps supply an individual saturation of hemoglobin, influence how readily with more oxygen, preventing the symptoms of AMS. hemoglobin binds carbon dioxide. The less saturated 22.7Embryonic Development of the hemoglobin is and the lower the partial pressure of Respiratory System oxygen in the blood is, the more readily hemoglobin binds to carbon dioxide. This is an example of the The development of the respiratory system in the fetus Haldane effect. begins at about 4 weeks and continues into childhood. Ectodermal tissue in the anterior portion of the head 22.6Modifications in Respiratory Functions region invaginates posteriorly, forming olfactory pits, Normally, the respiratory centers of the brain maintain which ultimately fuse with endodermal tissue of the a consistent, rhythmic breathing cycle. However, in early pharynx. At about this same time, a protrusion of certain cases, the respiratory system must adjust to endodermal tissue extends anteriorly from the foregut, situational changes in order to supply the body with producing a lung bud, which continues to elongate until sufficient oxygen. For example, exercise results in it forms the laryngotracheal bud. The proximal portion increased ventilation, and chronic exposure to a high of this structure will mature into the trachea, whereas altitude results in a greater number of circulating the bulbous end will branch to form two bronchial erythrocytes. Hyperpnea, an increase in the rate and buds. These buds then branch repeatedly, so that at depth of ventilation, appears to be a function of three about week 16, all major airway structures are present. neural mechanisms that include a psychological Development progresses after week 16 as respiratory stimulus, motor neuron activation of skeletal muscles, bronchioles and alveolar ducts form, and extensive and the activation of proprioceptors in the muscles, vascularization occurs. Alveolar type I cells also begin joints, and tendons. As a result, hyperpnea related to to take shape. Type II pulmonary cells develop and exercise is initiated when exercise begins, as opposed begin to produce
