Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


begin joints, and tendons. As a result, hyperpnea related to to take shape. Type II pulmonary cells develop and exercise is initiated when exercise begins, as opposed begin to produce small amounts of surfactant. As the to when tissue oxygen demand actually increases. fetus grows, the respiratory system continues to expand as more alveoli develop and more surfactant is In contrast, acute exposure to a high altitude, produced. Beginning at about week 36 and lasting into particularly during times of physical exertion, does childhood, alveolar precursors mature to become fully result in low blood and tissue levels of oxygen. This functional alveoli. At birth, compression of the thoracic change is caused by a low partial pressure of oxygen in cavity forces much of the fluid in the lungs to be the air, because the atmospheric pressure at high expelled. The first inhalation inflates the lungs. Fetal altitudes is lower than the atmospheric pressure at sea breathing movements begin around week 20 or 21, and level. This can lead to a condition called acute occur when contractions of the respiratory muscles mountain sickness (AMS) with symptoms that include cause the fetus to inhale and exhale amniotic fluid. headaches, disorientation, fatigue, nausea, and These movements continue until birth and may help to lightheadedness. Over a long period of time, a person’s tone the muscles in preparation for breathing after body will adjust to the high altitude, a process called birth and are a sign of good health. acclimatization. During acclimatization, the low tissue Interactive Link Questions 1. Visit thissite( 3. Watch thisvideo( learn more about what happens during an asthma see the transport of oxygen from the lungs to the attack. What are the three changes that occur tissues. Why is oxygenated blood bright red, inside the airways during an asthma attack? whereas deoxygenated blood tends to be more of a 2. Watch thisvideo( purple color? spirometers)to learn more about lung volumes and spirometers. Explain how spirometry test results can be used to diagnose respiratory diseases or determine the effectiveness of disease treatment. 992 22 • Review Questions Review Questions 4. Which of the following anatomical structures isnot 12. The ________ circulation picks up oxygen for part of the conducting zone? cellular use and drops off carbon dioxide for a. pharynx removal from the body. b. nasal cavity a. pulmonary c. alveoli b. interlobular d. bronchi c. respiratory d. bronchial 5. What
