Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


are present by d. carbonic anhydrase and oxygen ________. 25. Which of the following factors play a role in the a. early childhood, around 8 years of age oxygen–hemoglobin saturation/dissociation b. birth curve? c. 37 weeks a. temperature d. 16 weeks b. pH c. BPG d. all of the above 994 22 • Critical Thinking Questions 33. If a baby is born prematurely before type II cells 34. When do fetal breathing movements begin? produce sufficient pulmonary surfactant, which of a. around week 20 the following might you expect? b. around week 37 a. difficulty expressing fluid c. around week 16 b. difficulty inflating the lungs d. after birth c. difficulty with pulmonary capillary flow 35. What happens to the fluid that remains in the d. no difficulty as type I cells can provide lungs after birth? enough surfactant for normal breathing a. It reduces the surface tension of the alveoli. b. It is expelled shortly after birth. c. It is absorbed shortly after birth. d. It lubricates the pleurae. Critical Thinking Questions 36. Describe the three regions of the pharynx and 46. Compare and contrast adult hemoglobin and fetal their functions. hemoglobin. 37. If a person sustains an injury to the epiglottis, 47. Describe the relationship between the partial what would be the physiological result? pressure of oxygen and the binding of oxygen to 38. Compare and contrast the conducting and hemoglobin. respiratory zones. 48. Describe three ways in which carbon dioxide can 39. Compare and contrast the right and left lungs. be transported. 40. Why are the pleurae not damaged during normal 49. Describe the neural factors involved in increasing breathing? ventilation during exercise. 41. Describe what is meant by the term “lung 50. What is the major mechanism that results in compliance.” acclimatization? 42. Outline the steps involved in quiet breathing. 51. During what timeframe does a fetus have enough 43. What is respiratory rate and how is it controlled? mature structures to breathe on its own if born 44. Compare and contrast Dalton’s law and Henry’s prematurely? Describe the other structures that law. develop during this phase. 45. A smoker develops damage to several alveoli that 52. Describe fetal breathing movements and their then can no longer function. How does this affect purpose. gas exchange? Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 23 The Digestive System Figure23.1 Eating ApplesEating may be one of the simple pleasures in
