Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


condition. Even so, the mortality rate still ranges from 30 to 40 percent. The visceral peritoneum includes multiple large folds that envelope various abdominal organs, holding them to the dorsal surface of the body wall. Within these folds are blood vessels, lymphatic vessels, and nerves that innervate the organs with which they are in contact, supplying their adjacent organs. The five major peritoneal folds are described inTable 23.2. Note that during fetal development, certain digestive structures, including the first portion of the small intestine (called the duodenum), the pancreas, and portions of the large intestine (the ascending and descending colon, and the rectum) remain completely or partially posterior to the peritoneum. Thus, the location of these organs is described asretroperitoneal. Access for free at openstax.org 23.2 • Digestive System Processes and Regulation 1001 The Five Major Peritoneal Folds Fold Description Greater Apron-like structure that lies superficial to the small intestine and transverse colon; a site of fat omentum deposition in people who are overweight Falciform Anchors the liver to the anterior abdominal wall and inferior border of the diaphragm ligament Lesser Suspends the stomach from the inferior border of the liver; provides a pathway for structures omentum connecting to the liver Vertical band of tissue anterior to the lumbar vertebrae and anchoring all of the small intestine Mesentery except the initial portion (the duodenum) Attaches two portions of the large intestine (the transverse and sigmoid colon) to the posterior Mesocolon abdominal wall TABLE23.2 INTERACTIVE LINK By clicking on thislink( can watch a short video of what happens to the food you eat, as it passes from your mouth to your intestine. Along the way, note how the food changes consistency and form. How does this change in consistency facilitate your gaining nutrients from food? 23.2 Digestive System Processes and Regulation LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Discuss six fundamental activities of the digestive system, giving an example of each • Compare and contrast the neural and hormonal controls involved in digestion The digestive system uses mechanical and chemical activities to break food down into absorbable substances during its journey through the digestive system.Table 23.3provides an overview of the basic functions of the digestive organs. INTERACTIVE LINK Visit thissite( an overview of digestion of food in different regions of the digestive tract. Note the route of non-fat nutrients from the small intestine to
