Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


a signal to the medulla oblongata. The response to the signal is to stimulate cells in the stomach to begin secreting digestive juices in preparation for incoming food. In contrast, food that distends the stomach initiates short reflexes that cause cells in the stomach wall to increase their secretion of digestive juices. Hormonal Controls A variety of hormones are involved in the digestive process. The main digestive hormone of the stomach is gastrin, which is secreted in response to the presence of food. Gastrin stimulates the secretion of gastric acid by the parietal cells of the stomach mucosa. Other GI hormones are produced and act upon the gut and its accessory organs. Hormones produced by the duodenum include secretin, which stimulates a watery secretion of bicarbonate by the pancreas; cholecystokinin (CCK), which stimulates the secretion of pancreatic enzymes and bile from the liver and release of bile from the gallbladder; and gastric inhibitory peptide, which inhibits gastric secretion and slows gastric emptying and motility. These GI hormones are secreted by specialized epithelial cells, called endocrinocytes, located in the mucosal epithelium of the stomach and small intestine. These hormones then enter the bloodstream, through which they can reach their target organs. 23.3 The Mouth, Pharynx, and Esophagus LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the structures of the mouth, including its three accessory digestive organs • Group the 32 adult teeth according to name, location, and function • Describe the process of swallowing, including the roles of the tongue, upper esophageal sphincter, and epiglottis • Trace the pathway food follows from ingestion into the mouth through release into the stomach In this section, you will examine the anatomy and functions of the three main organs of the upper alimentary canal—the mouth, pharynx, and esophagus—as well as three associated accessory organs—the tongue, salivary glands, and teeth. The Mouth The cheeks, tongue, and palate frame the mouth, which is also called theoral cavity(or buccal cavity). The structures of the mouth are illustrated inFigure 23.7. At the entrance to the mouth are the lips, orlabia(singular = labium). Their outer covering is skin, which transitions to a mucous membrane in the mouth proper. Lips are very vascular with a thin layer of keratin; hence, the reason 1006 23 • The Digestive System they are "red." They have a huge representation on the cerebral cortex, which probably explains
