Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


can be stimulated by the sight, smell, and taste of food. It can even be stimulated by thinking about food. You might notice whether reading about food and salivation right now has had any effect on your production of saliva. How does the salivation process work while you are eating? Food contains chemicals that stimulate taste receptors on the tongue, which send impulses to the superior and inferior salivatory nuclei in the brain stem. These two nuclei then send back parasympathetic impulses through fibers in the glossopharyngeal and facial nerves, which stimulate salivation. Even after you swallow food, salivation is increased to cleanse the mouth and to water down and neutralize any irritating chemical remnants, such as that hot sauce in your burrito. Most saliva is swallowed along with food and is reabsorbed, so that fluid is not lost. 1010 23 • The Digestive System The Teeth The teeth, ordentes(singular = dens), are organs similar to bones that you use to tear, grind, and otherwise mechanically break down food. Types of Teeth During the course of your lifetime, you have two sets of teeth (one set of teeth is adentition). Your 20deciduous teeth, or baby teeth, first begin to appear at about 6 months of age. Between approximately age 6 and 12, these teeth are replaced by 32permanent teeth. Moving from the center of the mouth toward the side, these are as follows (Figure 23.10): • The eightincisors, four top and four bottom, are the sharp front teeth you use for biting into food. • The fourcuspids(or canines) flank the incisors and have a pointed edge (cusp) to tear up food. These fang-like teeth are superb for piercing tough or fleshy foods. • Posterior to the cuspids are the eightpremolars(or bicuspids), which have an overall flatter shape with two rounded cusps useful for mashing foods. • The most posterior and largest are the 12molars, which have several pointed cusps used to crush food so it is ready for swallowing. The third members of each set of three molars, top and bottom, are commonly referred to as the wisdom teeth, because their eruption is commonly delayed until early adulthood. It is not uncommon for wisdom teeth to fail to erupt; that is, they remain impacted. In these cases, the teeth are typically removed by orthodontic surgery. Access for free at openstax.org 23.3 • The Mouth, Pharynx, and Esophagus 1011 FIGURE23.10 Permanent
