Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


is, they remain impacted. In these cases, the teeth are typically removed by orthodontic surgery. Access for free at openstax.org 23.3 • The Mouth, Pharynx, and Esophagus 1011 FIGURE23.10 Permanent and Deciduous Teeth This figure of two human dentitions shows the arrangement of teeth in the maxilla and mandible, and the relationship between the deciduous and permanent teeth. Anatomy of a Tooth The teeth are secured in the alveolar processes (sockets) of the maxilla and the mandible.Gingivae(commonly called the gums) are soft tissues that line the alveolar processes and surround the necks of the teeth. Teeth are also held in their sockets by a connective tissue called the periodontal ligament. The two main parts of a tooth are thecrown, which is the portion projecting above the gum line, and theroot, which is embedded within the maxilla and mandible. Both parts contain an innerpulp cavity, containing loose connective tissue through which run nerves and blood vessels. The region of the pulp cavity that runs through the root of the tooth is called the root canal. Surrounding the pulp cavity isdentin, a bone-like tissue. In the root of each tooth, the dentin is covered by an even harder bone-like layer calledcementum. In the crown of each tooth, the dentin is covered by an outer layer ofenamel, the hardest substance in the body (Figure 23.11). Although enamel protects the underlying dentin and pulp cavity, it is still nonetheless susceptible to mechanical and chemical erosion, or what is known as tooth decay. The most common form, dental caries (cavities) develops when colonies of bacteria feeding on sugars in the mouth release acids that cause soft tissue inflammation and degradation of the calcium crystals of the enamel. The digestive functions of the mouth are summarized inTable 23.4. 1012 23 • The Digestive System FIGURE23.11 The Structure of the Tooth This longitudinal section through a molar in its alveolar socket shows the relationships between enamel, dentin, and pulp. Digestive Functions of the Mouth Structure Action Outcome Lips and Confine food • Food is chewed evenly during mastication cheeks between teeth • Moisten and lubricate the lining of the mouth and pharynx • Moisten, soften, and dissolve food Salivary Secrete saliva • Clean the mouth and teeth glands • Salivary amylase breaks down starch • Manipulate food for chewing Tongue’s Move tongue • Shape food into a bolus extrinsic sideways, and in • Manipulate food for swallowing
