Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


glands • Salivary amylase breaks down starch • Manipulate food for chewing Tongue’s Move tongue • Shape food into a bolus extrinsic sideways, and in • Manipulate food for swallowing muscles and out Tongue’s Change tongue • Manipulate food for swallowing intrinsic shape muscles Sense food in • Nerve impulses from taste buds are conducted to salivary nuclei in the Taste buds mouth and sense brain stem and then to salivary glands, stimulating saliva secretion taste • Activated in the stomach Lingual Secrete lingual • Break down triglycerides into fatty acids and diglycerides glands lipase Shred and crush • Break down solid food into smaller particles for deglutition Teeth food TABLE23.4 Access for free at openstax.org 23.3 • The Mouth, Pharynx, and Esophagus 1013 The Pharynx Thepharynx(throat) is involved in both digestion and respiration. It receives food and air from the mouth, and air from the nasal cavities. When food enters the pharynx, involuntary muscle contractions close off the air passageways. A short tube of skeletal muscle lined with a mucous membrane, the pharynx runs from the posterior oral and nasal cavities to the opening of the esophagus and larynx. It has three subdivisions. The most superior, the nasopharynx, is involved only in breathing and speech. The other two subdivisions, theoropharynxand thelaryngopharynx, are used for both breathing and digestion. The oropharynx begins inferior to the nasopharynx and is continuous below with the laryngopharynx (Figure 23.12). The inferior border of the laryngopharynx connects to the esophagus, whereas the anterior portion connects to the larynx, allowing air to flow into the bronchial tree. FIGURE23.12 Pharynx The pharynx runs from the nostrils to the esophagus and the larynx. Histologically, the wall of the oropharynx is similar to that of the oral cavity. The mucosa includes a stratified squamous epithelium that is endowed with mucus-producing glands. During swallowing, the elevator skeletal muscles of the pharynx contract, raising and expanding the pharynx to receive the bolus of food. Once received, these muscles relax and the constrictor muscles of the pharynx contract, forcing the bolus into the esophagus and initiating peristalsis. Usually during swallowing, the soft palate and uvula rise reflexively to close off the entrance to the nasopharynx. At the same time, the larynx is pulled superiorly and the cartilaginous epiglottis, its most superior structure, folds inferiorly, covering the glottis (the opening to the larynx); this process effectively blocks access to the trachea and bronchi.
