Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


of food from the esophagus to the stomach. Histology of the Esophagus The mucosa of the esophagus is made up of an epithelial lining that contains non-keratinized, stratified squamous epithelium, with a layer of basal and parabasal cells. This epithelium protects against erosion from food particles. The mucosa’s lamina propria contains mucus-secreting glands. The muscularis layer changes according to location: In the upper third of the esophagus, the muscularis is skeletal muscle. In the middle third, it is both skeletal and smooth muscle. In the lower third, it is smooth muscle. As mentioned previously, the most superficial layer of the esophagus is called the adventitia, not the serosa. In contrast to the stomach and intestines, the loose connective tissue of the adventitia is not covered by a fold of visceral peritoneum. The digestive functions of the esophagus are identified inTable 23.5. Access for free at openstax.org 23.3 • The Mouth, Pharynx, and Esophagus 1015 Digestive Functions of the Esophagus Action Outcome Upper esophageal Allows the bolus to move from the laryngopharynx to the esophagus sphincter relaxation Peristalsis Propels the bolus through the esophagus Lower esophageal Allows the bolus to move from the esophagus into the stomach and prevents sphincter relaxation chyme from entering the esophagus Mucus secretion Lubricates the esophagus, allowing easy passage of the bolus TABLE23.5 Deglutition Deglutitionis another word for swallowing—the movement of food from the mouth to the stomach. The entire process takes about 4 to 8 seconds for solid or semisolid food, and about 1 second for very soft food and liquids. Although this sounds quick and effortless, deglutition is, in fact, a complex process that involves both the skeletal muscle of the tongue and the muscles of the pharynx and esophagus. It is aided by the presence of mucus and saliva. There are three stages in deglutition: the voluntary phase, the pharyngeal phase, and the esophageal phase (Figure 23.14). The autonomic nervous system controls the latter two phases. FIGURE23.14 Deglutition Deglutition includes the voluntary phase and two involuntary phases: the pharyngeal phase and the esophageal phase. The Voluntary Phase Thevoluntary phaseof deglutition (also known as the oral or buccal phase) is so called because you can control when you swallow food. In this phase, chewing has been completed and swallowing is set in motion. The tongue moves upward and backward against the palate, pushing the bolus to the back of the oral cavity and into
