Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Enteroendocrine cells—Finally,enteroendocrine cellsfound in the gastric glands secrete various hormones into the interstitial fluid of the lamina propria. These include gastrin, which is released mainly by enteroendocrineG cells. Table 23.6describes the digestive functions of important hormones secreted by the stomach. INTERACTIVE LINK Watch thisanimation( depicts the structure of the stomach and how this structure functions in the initiation of protein digestion. This view of the stomach shows the characteristic rugae. What is the function of these rugae? Access for free at openstax.org 23.4 • The Stomach 1019 Hormones Secreted by the Stomach Hormone Production site Production stimulus Target organ Action Stomach mucosa, Presence of peptides Increases secretion by Gastrin mainly G cells of the and amino acids in Stomach gastric glands; promotes pyloric antrum stomach gastric emptying Stomach mucosa, Presence of peptides Small Promotes intestinal Gastrin mainly G cells of the and amino acids in intestine muscle contraction pyloric antrum stomach Stomach mucosa, Presence of peptides Ileocecal Gastrin mainly G cells of the and amino acids in Relaxes valve valve pyloric antrum stomach Stomach mucosa, Presence of peptides Large Triggers mass Gastrin mainly G cells of the and amino acids in intestine movements pyloric antrum stomach Fasting state (levels Regulates food intake, Stomach mucosa, Ghrelin increase just prior to Hypothalamus primarily by stimulating mainly fundus meals) hunger and satiety Presence of food in the Stimulates parietal cells Histamine Stomach mucosa Stomach stomach to release HCl Presence of food in the Contracts stomach Serotonin Stomach mucosa Stomach stomach muscle Mucosa of stomach, Presence of food in the Restricts all gastric especially pyloric Somatostatin stomach; sympathetic Stomach secretions, gastric antrum; also axon stimulation motility, and emptying duodenum Mucosa of stomach, Presence of food in the especially pyloric Restricts pancreatic Somatostatin stomach; sympathetic Pancreas antrum; also secretions axon stimulation duodenum Mucosa of stomach, Presence of food in the Reduces intestinal especially pyloric Small Somatostatin stomach; sympathetic absorption by reducing antrum; also intestine axon stimulation blood flow duodenum TABLE23.6 Gastric Secretion The secretion of gastric juice is controlled by both nerves and hormones. Stimuli in the brain, stomach, and small intestine activate or inhibit gastric juice production. This is why the three phases of gastric secretion are called the cephalic, gastric, and intestinal phases (Figure 23.17). However, once gastric secretion begins, all three phases can occur simultaneously. 1020 23 • The Digestive System FIGURE23.17 The Three Phases of Gastric Secretion Gastric secretion occurs in
