Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


necessary to life: the production of intrinsic factor. The intestinal absorption of vitamin B , which is necessary for both the production of 12 mature red blood cells and normal neurological functioning, cannot occur without intrinsic factor. People who undergo total gastrectomy (stomach removal)—for life-threatening stomach cancer, for example—can survive with minimal digestive dysfunction if they receive vitamin B injections. 12 The contents of the stomach are completely emptied into the duodenum within 2 to 4 hours after you eat a meal. Different types of food take different amounts of time to process. Foods heavy in carbohydrates empty fastest, followed by high-protein foods. Meals with a high triglyceride content remain in the stomach the longest. Since enzymes in the small intestine digest fats slowly, food can stay in the stomach for 6 hours or longer when the duodenum is processing fatty chyme. However, note that this is still a fraction of the 24 to 72 hours that full digestion typically takes from start to finish. 23.5 The Small and Large Intestines LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Compare and contrast the location and gross anatomy of the small and large intestines • Identify three main adaptations of the small intestine wall that increase its absorptive capacity • Describe the mechanical and chemical digestion of chyme upon its release into the small intestine • List three features unique to the wall of the large intestine and identify their contributions to its function • Identify the beneficial roles of the bacterial flora in digestive system functioning • Trace the pathway of food waste from its point of entry into the large intestine through its exit from the body as feces The word intestine is derived from a Latin root meaning “internal,” and indeed, the two organs together nearly fill the interior of the abdominal cavity. In addition, called the small and large bowel, or colloquially the “guts,” they constitute the greatest mass and length of the alimentary canal and, with the exception of ingestion, perform all digestive system functions. The Small Intestine Chyme released from the stomach enters thesmall intestine, which is the primary digestive organ in the body. Not only is this where most digestion occurs, it is also where practically all absorption occurs. The longest part of the alimentary canal, the small intestine is about 3.05 meters (10 feet) long in a
