Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


site of the complex mucus-secretingduodenal glands(Brunner’s glands), which produce a bicarbonate-rich alkaline mucus that buffers the acidic chyme as it enters from the stomach. The roles of the cells in the small intestinal mucosa are detailed inTable 23.7. Cells of the Small Intestinal Mucosa Location in the Cell type Function mucosa Epithelium/intestinal Absorptive Digestion and absorption of nutrients in chyme glands Epithelium/intestinal Goblet Secretion of mucus glands Paneth Intestinal glands Secretion of the bactericidal enzyme lysozyme; phagocytosis Intestinal glands of G cells Secretion of the hormone intestinal gastrin duodenum Intestinal glands of Secretion of the hormone cholecystokinin, which stimulates release of I cells duodenum pancreatic juices and bile Secretion of the hormone glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide, K cells Intestinal glands which stimulates the release of insulin Intestinal glands of Secretion of the hormone motilin, which accelerates gastric emptying, M cells duodenum and stimulates intestinal peristalsis, and stimulates the production of pepsin jejunum S cells Intestinal glands Secretion of the hormone secretin TABLE23.7 Intestinal MALT The lamina propria of the small intestine mucosa is studded with quite a bit of MALT. In addition to solitary lymphatic nodules, aggregations of intestinal MALT, which are typically referred to as Peyer’s patches, are concentrated in the distal ileum, and serve to keep bacteria from entering the bloodstream. Peyer’s patches are most prominent in young people and become less distinct as you age, which coincides with the general activity of our immune system. INTERACTIVE LINK Watch thisanimation( depicts the structure of the small intestine, and, in particular, the villi. Epithelial cells continue the digestion and absorption of nutrients and transport these nutrients to the lymphatic and circulatory systems. In the small intestine, the products of food digestion are absorbed by different structures in the villi. Which structure absorbs and transports fats? 1026 23 • The Digestive System Mechanical Digestion in the Small Intestine The movement of intestinal smooth muscles includes both segmentation and a form of peristalsis called migrating motility complexes. The kind of peristaltic mixing waves seen in the stomach are not observed here. If you could see into the small intestine when it was going through segmentation, it would look as if the contents were being shoved incrementally back and forth, as the rings of smooth muscle repeatedly contract and then relax. Segmentation in the small intestine does not force chyme through the tract. Instead, it combines the chyme with digestive juices and pushes
