Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


follows the curved contour of the sacrum and has three lateral bends that create a trio of internal transverse folds called therectal valves. These valves help separate the feces from gas to prevent the simultaneous passage of feces and gas. Anal Canal Finally, food residue reaches the last part of the large intestine, theanal canal, which is located in the perineum, completely outside of the abdominopelvic cavity. This 3.8–5 cm (1.5–2 in) long structure opens to the exterior of the Access for free at openstax.org 23.5 • The Small and Large Intestines 1029 body at the anus. The anal canal includes two sphincters. Theinternal anal sphincteris made of smooth muscle, and its contractions are involuntary. Theexternal anal sphincteris made of skeletal muscle, which is under voluntary control. Except when defecating, both usually remain closed. Histology There are several notable differences between the walls of the large and small intestines (Figure 23.22). For example, few enzyme-secreting cells are found in the wall of the large intestine, and there are no circular folds or villi. Other than in the anal canal, the mucosa of the colon is simple columnar epithelium made mostly of enterocytes (absorptive cells) and goblet cells. In addition, the wall of the large intestine has far more intestinal glands, which contain a vast population of enterocytes and goblet cells. These goblet cells secrete mucus that eases the movement of feces and protects the intestine from the effects of the acids and gases produced by enteric bacteria. The enterocytes absorb water and salts as well as vitamins produced by your intestinal bacteria. FIGURE23.22 Histology of the large Intestine (a) The histologies of the large intestine and small intestine (not shown) are adapted for the digestive functions of each organ. (b) This micrograph shows the colon’s simple columnar epithelium and goblet cells. LM x 464. (credit b: Micrograph provided by the Regents of University of Michigan Medical School © 2012) Anatomy Three features are unique to the large intestine: teniae coli, haustra, and epiploic appendages (Figure 23.23). The teniae coliare three bands of smooth muscle that make up the longitudinal muscle layer of the muscularis of the large intestine, except at its terminal end. Tonic contractions of the teniae coli bunch up the colon into a succession of pouches calledhaustra(singular = haustrum), which are responsible for the wrinkled appearance of the colon. Attached to the teniae coli are small, fat-filled sacs
