Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


through the liver. This largely explains why the liver is the most common site for the metastasis of cancers that originate in the alimentary canal. FIGURE23.25 Microscopic Anatomy of the Liver The liver receives oxygenated blood from the hepatic artery and nutrient-rich deoxygenated blood from the hepatic portal vein. 1034 23 • The Digestive System Histology The liver has three main components: hepatocytes, bile canaliculi, and hepatic sinusoids. Ahepatocyteis the liver’s main cell type, accounting for around 80 percent of the liver's volume. These cells play a role in a wide variety of secretory, metabolic, and endocrine functions. Plates of hepatocytes called hepatic laminae radiate outward from the portal vein in eachhepatic lobule. Between adjacent hepatocytes, grooves in the cell membranes provide room for eachbile canaliculus(plural = canaliculi). These small ducts accumulate the bile produced by hepatocytes. From here, bile flows first into bile ductules and then into bile ducts. The bile ducts unite to form the larger right and left hepatic ducts, which themselves merge and exit the liver as thecommon hepatic duct. This duct then joins with the cystic duct from the gallbladder, forming thecommon bile ductthrough which bile flows into the small intestine. Ahepatic sinusoidis an open, porous blood space formed by fenestrated capillaries from nutrient-rich hepatic portal veins and oxygen-rich hepatic arteries. Hepatocytes are tightly packed around the fenestrated endothelium of these spaces, giving them easy access to the blood. From their central position, hepatocytes process the nutrients, toxins, and waste materials carried by the blood. Materials such as bilirubin are processed and excreted into the bile canaliculi. Other materials including proteins, lipids, and carbohydrates are processed and secreted into the sinusoids or just stored in the cells until called upon. The hepatic sinusoids combine and send blood to acentral vein. Blood then flows through ahepatic veininto the inferior vena cava. This means that blood and bile flow in opposite directions. The hepatic sinusoids also contain star-shapedreticuloendothelial cells(Kupffer cells), phagocytes that remove dead red and white blood cells, bacteria, and other foreign material that enter the sinusoids. Theportal triadis a distinctive arrangement around the perimeter of hepatic lobules, consisting of three basic structures: a bile duct, a hepatic artery branch, and a hepatic portal vein branch. Bile Recall that lipids are hydrophobic, that is, they do not dissolve in water. Thus, before they can be digested in the watery environment of the small intestine, large lipid
