Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


or absorbed. Hepatocytes work non-stop, but bile production increases when fatty chyme enters the duodenum and stimulates the secretion of the gut hormone secretin. Between meals, bile is produced but conserved. The valve-like hepatopancreatic ampulla closes, allowing bile to divert to the gallbladder, where it is concentrated and stored until the next meal. Access for free at openstax.org 23.6 • Accessory Organs in Digestion: The Liver, Pancreas, and Gallbladder 1035 INTERACTIVE LINK Watch thisvideo( see the structure of the liver and how this structure supports the functions of the liver, including the processing of nutrients, toxins, and wastes. At rest, about 1500 mL of blood per minute flow through the liver. What percentage of this blood flow comes from the hepatic portal system? The Pancreas The soft, oblong, glandularpancreaslies transversely in the retroperitoneum behind the stomach. Its head is nestled into the “c-shaped” curvature of the duodenum with the body extending to the left about 15.2 cm (6 in) and ending as a tapering tail in the hilum of the spleen. It is a curious mix of exocrine (secreting digestive enzymes) and endocrine (releasing hormones into the blood) functions (Figure 23.26). FIGURE23.26 Exocrine and Endocrine Pancreas The pancreas has a head, a body, and a tail. It delivers pancreatic juice to the duodenum through the pancreatic duct. The exocrine part of the pancreas arises as little grape-like cell clusters, each called anacinus(plural = acini), located at the terminal ends of pancreatic ducts. These acinar cells secrete enzyme-richpancreatic juiceinto tiny merging ducts that form two dominant ducts. The larger duct fuses with the common bile duct (carrying bile from the liver and gallbladder) just before entering the duodenum via a common opening (the hepatopancreatic ampulla). The smooth muscle sphincter of the hepatopancreatic ampulla controls the release of pancreatic juice and bile into the small intestine. The second and smaller pancreatic duct, theaccessory duct(duct of Santorini), runs from the pancreas directly into the duodenum, approximately 1 inch above the hepatopancreatic ampulla. When present, it is a persistent remnant of pancreatic development. Scattered through the sea of exocrine acini are small islands of endocrine cells, the islets of Langerhans. These vital cells produce the hormones pancreatic polypeptide, insulin, glucagon, and somatostatin. 1036 23 • The Digestive System Pancreatic Juice The pancreas produces over a liter of pancreatic juice each day. Unlike bile, it is clear and composed mostly of water along with some
