Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


three monosaccharides that are commonly consumed and are readily absorbed. Your digestive system is also able to break down the disaccharide sucrose (regular table sugar: glucose + fructose), lactose (milk sugar: glucose + galactose), and maltose (grain sugar: glucose + glucose), and the polysaccharides glycogen and starch (chains of monosaccharides). Your bodies do not produce enzymes that can break down most fibrous polysaccharides, such as cellulose. While indigestible polysaccharides do not provide any nutritional value, they do provide dietary fiber, which helps propel food through the alimentary canal. The chemical digestion of starches begins in the mouth and has been reviewed above. In the small intestine,pancreatic amylasedoes the ‘heavy lifting’ for starch and carbohydrate digestion (Figure 23.29). After amylases break down starch into smaller fragments, the brush border enzymeα-dextrinasestarts working onα-dextrin, breaking off one glucose unit at a time. Three brush border enzymes hydrolyze sucrose, lactose, and maltose into monosaccharides.Sucrasesplits sucrose into one molecule of fructose and one molecule of glucose;maltasebreaks down maltose and maltotriose into two and three glucose molecules, respectively; and lactasebreaks down lactose into one molecule of glucose and one molecule of galactose. Insufficient lactase can lead to lactose intolerance. FIGURE23.29 Carbohydrate Digestion Flow Chart Carbohydrates are broken down into their monomers in a series of steps. Protein Digestion Proteins are polymers composed of amino acids linked by peptide bonds to form long chains. Digestion reduces them to their constituent amino acids. You usually consume about 15 to 20 percent of your total calorie intake as protein. Access for free at openstax.org 23.7 • Chemical Digestion and Absorption: A Closer Look 1041 The digestion of protein starts in the stomach, where HCl and pepsin break proteins into smaller polypeptides, which then travel to the small intestine (Figure 23.30). Chemical digestion in the small intestine is continued by pancreatic enzymes, including chymotrypsin and trypsin, each of which act on specific bonds in amino acid sequences. At the same time, the cells of the brush border secrete enzymes such asaminopeptidaseand dipeptidase, which further break down peptide chains. This results in molecules small enough to enter the bloodstream (Figure 23.31). FIGURE23.30 Digestion of Protein The digestion of protein begins in the stomach and is completed in the small intestine. 1042 23 • The Digestive System FIGURE23.31 Digestion of Protein Flow Chart Proteins are successively broken down into their amino acid components. Lipid Digestion A healthy diet limits lipid intake to
