Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


23 • The Digestive System FIGURE23.31 Digestion of Protein Flow Chart Proteins are successively broken down into their amino acid components. Lipid Digestion A healthy diet limits lipid intake to 35 percent of total calorie intake. The most common dietary lipids are triglycerides, which are made up of a glycerol molecule bound to three fatty acid chains. Small amounts of dietary cholesterol and phospholipids are also consumed. The three lipases responsible for lipid digestion are lingual lipase, gastric lipase, andpancreatic lipase. However, because the pancreas is the only consequential source of lipase, virtually all lipid digestion occurs in the small intestine. Pancreatic lipase breaks down each triglyceride into two free fatty acids and a monoglyceride. The fatty acids include both short-chain (less than 10 to 12 carbons) and long-chain fatty acids. Nucleic Acid Digestion The nucleic acids DNA and RNA are found in most of the foods you eat. Two types ofpancreatic nucleaseare responsible for their digestion:deoxyribonuclease, which digests DNA, andribonuclease, which digests RNA. The nucleotides produced by this digestion are further broken down by two intestinal brush border enzymes (nucleosidaseandphosphatase) into pentoses, phosphates, and nitrogenous bases, which can be absorbed through the alimentary canal wall. The large food molecules that must be broken down into subunits are summarizedTable 23.9 Absorbable Food Substances Source Substance Carbohydrates Monosaccharides: glucose, galactose, and fructose Proteins Single amino acids, dipeptides, and tripeptides TABLE23.9 Access for free at openstax.org 23.7 • Chemical Digestion and Absorption: A Closer Look 1043 Source Substance Triglycerides Monoacylglycerides, glycerol, and free fatty acids Nucleic acids Pentose sugars, phosphates, and nitrogenous bases TABLE23.9 Absorption The mechanical and digestive processes have one goal: to convert food into molecules small enough to be absorbed by the epithelial cells of the intestinal villi. The absorptive capacity of the alimentary canal is almost endless. Each day, the alimentary canal processes up to 10 liters of food, liquids, and GI secretions, yet less than one liter enters the large intestine. Almost all ingested food, 80 percent of electrolytes, and 90 percent of water are absorbed in the small intestine. Although the entire small intestine is involved in the absorption of water and lipids, most absorption of carbohydrates and proteins occurs in the jejunum. Notably, bile salts and vitamin B are absorbed in the terminal 12 ileum. By the time chyme passes from the ileum into the large intestine, it is essentially indigestible food residue (mainly plant
