Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


lymphatic vessels to the systemic circulation via the thoracic duct. The absorption of most nutrients through the mucosa of the intestinal villi requires active transport fueled by ATP. The routes of absorption for each food category are summarized inTable 23.10. Absorption in the Alimentary Canal Breakdown Entry to Food Absorption mechanism Destination products bloodstream Capillary Liver via hepatic Carbohydrates Glucose Co-transport with sodium ions blood in villi portal vein Capillary Liver via hepatic Carbohydrates Galactose Co-transport with sodium ions blood in villi portal vein Capillary Liver via hepatic Carbohydrates Fructose Facilitated diffusion blood in villi portal vein Capillary Liver via hepatic Protein Amino acids Co-transport with sodium ions blood in villi portal vein Systemic Diffusion into intestinal cells, Long-chain fatty Lacteals of circulation via Lipids where they are combined with acids villi lymph entering proteins to create chylomicrons thoracic duct Systemic Diffusion into intestinal cells, Lacteals of circulation via Lipids Monoacylglycerides where they are combined with villi lymph entering proteins to create chylomicrons thoracic duct Short-chain fatty Capillary Liver via hepatic Lipids Simple diffusion acids blood in villi portal vein TABLE23.10 Access for free at openstax.org 23.7 • Chemical Digestion and Absorption: A Closer Look 1045 Breakdown Entry to Food Absorption mechanism Destination products bloodstream Capillary Liver via hepatic Lipids Glycerol Simple diffusion blood in villi portal vein Nucleic acid Active transport via membrane Capillary Liver via hepatic Nucleic Acids digestion products carriers blood in villi portal vein TABLE23.10 Carbohydrate Absorption All carbohydrates are absorbed in the form of monosaccharides. The small intestine is highly efficient at this, absorbing monosaccharides at an estimated rate of 120 grams per hour. All normally digested dietary carbohydrates are absorbed; indigestible fibers are eliminated in the feces. The monosaccharides glucose and galactose are transported into the epithelial cells by common protein carriers via secondary active transport (that is, co-transport with sodium ions). The monosaccharides leave these cells via facilitated diffusion and enter the capillaries through intercellular clefts. The monosaccharide fructose (which is in fruit) is absorbed and transported by facilitated diffusion alone. The monosaccharides combine with the transport proteins immediately after the disaccharides are broken down. Protein Absorption Active transport mechanisms, primarily in the duodenum and jejunum, absorb most proteins as their breakdown products, amino acids. Almost all (95 to 98 percent) protein is digested and absorbed in the small intestine. The type of carrier that transports an amino acid varies. Most carriers are
