Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


absorption of dietary calcium. When blood levels of ionic calcium drop, parathyroid hormone (PTH) secreted by the parathyroid glands stimulates the release of calcium ions from bone matrices and increases the reabsorption of calcium by the kidneys. PTH also upregulates the activation of vitamin D in the kidney, which then facilitates intestinal calcium ion absorption. Vitamin Absorption The small intestine absorbs the vitamins that occur naturally in food and supplements. Fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E, Access for free at openstax.org 23.7 • Chemical Digestion and Absorption: A Closer Look 1047 and K) are absorbed along with dietary lipids in micelles via simple diffusion. This is why you are advised to eat some fatty foods when you take fat-soluble vitamin supplements. Most water-soluble vitamins (including most B vitamins and vitamin C) also are absorbed by simple diffusion. An exception is vitamin B , which is a very large 12 molecule. Intrinsic factor secreted in the stomach binds to vitamin B , preventing its digestion and creating a 12 complex that binds to mucosal receptors in the terminal ileum, where it is taken up by endocytosis. Water Absorption Each day, about nine liters of fluid enter the small intestine. About 2.3 liters are ingested in foods and beverages, and the rest is from GI secretions. About 90 percent of this water is absorbed in the small intestine. Water absorption is driven by the concentration gradient of the water: The concentration of water is higher in chyme than it is in epithelial cells. Thus, water moves down its concentration gradient from the chyme into cells. As noted earlier, much of the remaining water is then absorbed in the colon. 1048 23 • Key Terms Key Terms absorption passage of digested products from the and the rectum intestinal lumen through mucosal cells and into the common bile duct structure formed by the union of bloodstream or lacteals the common hepatic duct and the gallbladder’s accessory digestive organ includes teeth, tongue, cystic duct salivary glands, gallbladder, liver, and pancreas common hepatic duct duct formed by the merger of accessory duct (also, duct of Santorini) duct that runs the two hepatic ducts from the pancreas into the duodenum crown portion of tooth visible superior to the gum line acinus cluster of glandular epithelial cells in the cuspid (also, canine) pointed tooth used for tearing pancreas that secretes pancreatic juice in the and shredding food pancreas cystic
