Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


and palate rises to close off the nasopharynx, the larynx gallbladder. The wall of the alimentary canal is elevates, and the epiglottis folds over the glottis. The composed of four basic tissue layers: mucosa, esophagus includes an upper esophageal sphincter submucosa, muscularis, and serosa. The enteric made of skeletal muscle, which regulates the nervous system provides intrinsic innervation, and the movement of food from the pharynx to the esophagus. autonomic nervous system provides extrinsic It also has a lower esophageal sphincter, made of innervation. smooth muscle, which controls the passage of food from the esophagus to the stomach. Cells in the 23.2Digestive System Processes and esophageal wall secrete mucus that eases the passage Regulation of the food bolus. The digestive system ingests and digests food, absorbs 23.4The Stomach released nutrients, and excretes food components that are indigestible. The six activities involved in this The stomach participates in all digestive activities process are ingestion, motility, mechanical digestion, except ingestion and defecation. It vigorously churns chemical digestion, absorption, and defecation. These food. It secretes gastric juices that break down food processes are regulated by neural and hormonal and absorbs certain drugs, including aspirin and some mechanisms. alcohol. The stomach begins the digestion of protein and continues the digestion of carbohydrates and fats. It stores food as an acidic liquid called chyme, and 1052 23 • Interactive Link Questions releases it gradually into the small intestine through duct. Bile contains bile salts and phospholipids, which the pyloric sphincter. emulsify large lipid globules into tiny lipid droplets, a necessary step in lipid digestion and absorption. The 23.5The Small and Large Intestines gallbladder stores and concentrates bile, releasing it The three main regions of the small intestine are the when it is needed by the small intestine. duodenum, the jejunum, and the ileum. The small The pancreas produces the enzyme- and bicarbonate- intestine is where digestion is completed and virtually rich pancreatic juice and delivers it to the small all absorption occurs. These two activities are intestine through ducts. Pancreatic juice buffers the facilitated by structural adaptations that increase the acidic gastric juice in chyme, inactivates pepsin from mucosal surface area by 600-fold, including circular the stomach, and enables the optimal functioning of folds, villi, and microvilli. There are around 200 million digestive enzymes in the small intestine. microvilli per square millimeter of small intestine, which contain brush border enzymes that complete the 23.7Chemical Digestion
