Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


and microvilli. There are around 200 million digestive enzymes in the small intestine. microvilli per square millimeter of small intestine, which contain brush border enzymes that complete the 23.7Chemical Digestion and Absorption: A digestion of carbohydrates and proteins. Combined Closer Look with pancreatic juice, intestinal juice provides the liquid The small intestine is the site of most chemical medium needed to further digest and absorb digestion and almost all absorption. Chemical digestion substances from chyme. The small intestine is also the breaks large food molecules down into their chemical site of unique mechanical digestive movements. building blocks, which can then be absorbed through Segmentation moves the chyme back and forth, the intestinal wall and into the general circulation. increasing mixing and opportunities for absorption. Intestinal brush border enzymes and pancreatic Migrating motility complexes propel the residual enzymes are responsible for the majority of chemical chyme toward the large intestine. digestion. The breakdown of fat also requires bile. The main regions of the large intestine are the cecum, Most nutrients are absorbed by transport mechanisms the colon, and the rectum. The large intestine absorbs at the apical surface of enterocytes. Exceptions include water and forms feces, and is responsible for lipids, fat-soluble vitamins, and most water-soluble defecation. Bacterial flora break down additional vitamins. With the help of bile salts and lecithin, the carbohydrate residue, and synthesize certain vitamins. dietary fats are emulsified to form micelles, which can The mucosa of the large intestinal wall is generously carry the fat particles to the surface of the enterocytes. endowed with goblet cells, which secrete mucus that There, the micelles release their fats to diffuse across eases the passage of feces. The entry of feces into the the cell membrane. The fats are then reassembled into rectum activates the defecation reflex. triglycerides and mixed with other lipids and proteins 23.6Accessory Organs in Digestion: The into chylomicrons that can pass into lacteals. Other Liver, Pancreas, and Gallbladder absorbed monomers travel from blood capillaries in the villus to the hepatic portal vein and then to the Chemical digestion in the small intestine cannot occur liver. without the help of the liver and pancreas. The liver produces bile and delivers it to the common hepatic Interactive Link Questions 1. By clicking on thislink( 3. Watch thisanimation( fooddigestion), you can watch a short video of what swallowing)to see how swallowing is a complex happens to the food you
