Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Questions 1. By clicking on thislink( 3. Watch thisanimation( fooddigestion), you can watch a short video of what swallowing)to see how swallowing is a complex happens to the food you eat as it passes from your process that involves the nervous system to mouth to your intestine. Along the way, note how coordinate the actions of upper respiratory and the food changes consistency and form. How does digestive activities. During which stage of this change in consistency facilitate your gaining swallowing is there a risk of food entering nutrients from food? respiratory pathways and how is this risk blocked? 2. Visit thissite( 4. Watch thisanimation( for an overview of digestion of food in different stomach1)that depicts the structure of the regions of the digestive tract. Note the route of non- stomach and how this structure functions in the fat nutrients from the small intestine to their initiation of protein digestion. This view of the release as nutrients to the body. stomach shows the characteristic rugae. What is the function of these rugae? Access for free at openstax.org 23 • Review Questions 1053 5. Watch thisanimation( 6. By watching thisanimation( sintestine)that depicts the structure of the small foodgroups), you will see that for the various food intestine, and, in particular, the villi. Epithelial cells groups—proteins, fats, and continue the digestion and absorption of nutrients carbohydrates—digestion begins in different parts and transport these nutrients to the lymphatic and of the digestion system, though all end in the same circulatory systems. In the small intestine, the place. Of the three major food classes products of food digestion are absorbed by different (carbohydrates, fats, and proteins), which is structures in the villi. Which structure absorbs and digested in the mouth, the stomach, and the small transports fats? intestine? 7. Watch thisvideo( see the structure of the liver and how this structure supports the functions of the liver, including the processing of nutrients, toxins, and wastes. At rest, about 1500 mL of blood per minute flow through the liver. What percentage of this blood flow comes from the hepatic portal system? Review Questions 8. Which of these organs is not considered an 13. Which of the following stimuli activates sensors in accessory digestive structure? the walls of digestive organs? a. mouth a. breakdown products of digestion b. salivary glands b. distension c. pancreas c. pH of chyme d. liver d. all of the above 9.
