Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the small intestine. 44. Explain how nutrients absorbed in the small 36. It has been several hours since you last ate. intestine pass into the general circulation. Walking past a bakery, you catch a whiff of freshly 45. Why is it important that chyme from the stomach baked bread. What type of reflex is triggered, and is delivered to the small intestine slowly and in what is the result? small amounts? 37. The composition of saliva varies from gland to 46. Describe three of the differences between the gland. Discuss how saliva produced by the parotid walls of the large and small intestines. gland differs in action from saliva produced by the 47. Why does the pancreas secrete some enzymes in sublingual gland. their inactive forms, and where are these enzymes 38. During a hockey game, the puck hits a player in activated? the mouth, knocking out all eight of their most 48. Describe the location of hepatocytes in the liver anterior teeth. Which teeth did the player lose and and how this arrangement enhances their how does this loss affect food ingestion? function. 39. What prevents swallowed food from entering the 49. Explain the role of bile salts and lecithin in the airways? emulsification of lipids (fats). 50. How is vitamin B absorbed? 12 1056 23 • Critical Thinking Questions Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 24 Metabolism and Nutrition Figure24.1 MetabolismMetabolism is the sum of all energy-requiring and energy-consuming processes of the body. Many factors contribute to overall metabolism, including lean muscle mass, the amount and quality of food consumed, and the physical demands placed on the human body. (credit: "tableatny"/flickr.com) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Describe the processes involved in anabolic and catabolic reactions • List and describe the steps necessary for carbohydrate, lipid, and protein metabolism • Explain the processes that regulate glucose levels during the absorptive and postabsorptive states • Explain how metabolism is essential to maintaining body temperature (thermoregulation) • Summarize the importance of vitamins and minerals in the diet INTRODUCTION Eating is essential to life. Many of us look to eating as not only a necessity, but also a pleasure. You may have been told since childhood to start the day with a good breakfast to give you the energy to get through most of the day. You most likely have heard about the importance of
