Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


of the body, as more and more proteins are broken down. Nucleic acids are present in most of the foods you eat. During digestion, nucleic acids including DNA and various RNAs are broken down into their constituent nucleotides. These nucleotides are readily absorbed and transported throughout the body to be used by individual cells during nucleic acid metabolism. Access for free at openstax.org 24.1 • Overview of Metabolic Reactions 1061 Anabolic Reactions In contrast to catabolic reactions,anabolic reactionsinvolve the joining of smaller molecules into larger ones. Anabolic reactions combine monosaccharides to form polysaccharides, fatty acids to form triglycerides, amino acids to form proteins, and nucleotides to form nucleic acids. These processes require energy in the form of ATP molecules generated by catabolic reactions. Anabolic reactions, also calledbiosynthesis reactions, create new molecules that form new cells and tissues, and revitalize organs. Hormonal Regulation of Metabolism Catabolic and anabolic hormones in the body help regulate metabolic processes.Catabolic hormonesstimulate the breakdown of molecules and the production of energy. These include cortisol, glucagon, adrenaline/epinephrine, and cytokines. All of these hormones are mobilized at specific times to meet the needs of the body.Anabolic hormonesare required for the synthesis of molecules and include growth hormone, insulin-like growth factor, insulin, testosterone, and estrogen.Table 24.1summarizes the function of each of the catabolic hormones and Table 24.2summarizes the functions of the anabolic hormones. Catabolic Hormones Hormone Function Released from the adrenal gland in response to stress; its main role is to increase blood glucose Cortisol levels by gluconeogenesis (breaking down fats and proteins) Released from alpha cells in the pancreas either when starving or when the body needs to generate additional energy; it stimulates the breakdown of glycogen in the liver to increase blood Glucagon glucose levels; its effect is the opposite of insulin; glucagon and insulin are a part of a negative- feedback system that stabilizes blood glucose levels Released in response to the activation of the sympathetic nervous system; increases heart rate Adrenaline/ and heart contractility, constricts blood vessels, is a bronchodilator that opens (dilates) the epinephrine bronchi of the lungs to increase air volume in the lungs, and stimulates gluconeogenesis TABLE24.1 Anabolic Hormones Hormone Function Growth Synthesized and released from the pituitary gland; stimulates the growth of cells, tissues, and hormone bones (GH) Insulin-like growth Stimulates the growth of muscle and bone while also inhibiting cell death (apoptosis) factor (IGF) Produced by the beta cells of
