Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


molecule that is reduced is subsequently Access for free at openstax.org 24.2 • Carbohydrate Metabolism 1063 oxidized, passing on not only the electron it just received but also the energy it received. As the series of reactions progresses, energy accumulates that is used to combine P and ADP to form ATP, the high-energy molecule that the i body uses for fuel. Oxidation-reduction reactions are catalyzed by enzymes that trigger the removal of hydrogen atoms. Coenzymes work with enzymes and accept hydrogen atoms. The two most common coenzymes of oxidation-reduction reactions arenicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD)andflavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD). Their respective reduced coenzymes areNADHandFADH , which are energy-containing molecules used to transfer energy during the 2 creation of ATP. 24.2 Carbohydrate Metabolism LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Explain the processes of glycolysis • Describe the pathway of a pyruvate molecule through the Krebs cycle • Explain the transport of electrons through the electron transport chain • Describe the process of ATP production through oxidative phosphorylation • Summarize the process of gluconeogenesis Carbohydrates are organic molecules composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms. The family of carbohydrates includes both simple and complex sugars. Glucose and fructose are examples of simple sugars, and starch, glycogen, and cellulose are all examples of complex sugars. The complex sugars are also called polysaccharidesand are made of multiplemonosaccharidemolecules. Polysaccharides serve as energy storage (e.g., starch and glycogen) and as structural components (e.g., chitin in insects and cellulose in plants). During digestion, carbohydrates are broken down into simple, soluble sugars that can be transported across the intestinal wall into the circulatory system to be transported throughout the body. Carbohydrate digestion begins in the mouth with the action ofsalivary amylaseon starches and ends with monosaccharides being absorbed across the epithelium of the small intestine. Once the absorbed monosaccharides are transported to the tissues, the process ofcellular respirationbegins (Figure 24.4). This section will focus first on glycolysis, a process where the monosaccharide glucose is oxidized, releasing the energy stored in its bonds to produce ATP. 1064 24 • Metabolism and Nutrition FIGURE24.4 Cellular Respiration Cellular respiration oxidizes glucose molecules through glycolysis, the Krebs cycle, and oxidative phosphorylation to produce ATP. Glycolysis Glucose is the body’s most readily available source of energy. After digestive processes break polysaccharides down into monosaccharides, including glucose, the monosaccharides are transported across the wall of the small intestine
