Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


is limited or absent, pyruvate enters an anaerobic pathway called fermentation. In these reactions, pyruvate can be converted into lactic acid. In addition to generating an additional ATP, this pathway serves to keep the pyruvate concentration low so glycolysis continues, and it oxidizes NADH into the NAD+needed by glycolysis. In this reaction, lactic acid replaces oxygen as the final electron acceptor. Anaerobic respiration occurs in most cells of the body when oxygen is limited or mitochondria are absent or nonfunctional. For example, because erythrocytes (red blood cells) lack mitochondria, they must produce their ATP from anaerobic respiration. This is an effective pathway of ATP production for short periods of time, ranging from seconds to a few minutes. The lactic acid produced diffuses into the plasma and is carried to the liver, where it is converted back into pyruvate or glucose via the Cori cycle. Similarly, when a person exercises, muscles use ATP faster than oxygen can be delivered to them. They depend on glycolysis and lactic acid production for rapid ATP production. Aerobic Respiration In the presence of oxygen, pyruvate can enter the Krebs cycle where additional energy is extracted as electrons are transferred from the pyruvate to the receptors NAD+, GDP, and FAD, with carbon dioxide being a “waste product” (Figure 24.6). The NADH and FADH pass electrons on to the electron transport chain, which uses the transferred 2 energy to produce ATP. As the terminal step in the electron transport chain, oxygen is theterminal electron acceptorand creates water inside the mitochondria. 1068 24 • Metabolism and Nutrition FIGURE24.6 Aerobic versus Anaerobic Respiration The process of anaerobic respiration converts glucose into two lactate molecules in the absence of oxygen or within erythrocytes that lack mitochondria. During aerobic respiration, glucose is oxidized into two pyruvate molecules. Krebs Cycle/Citric Acid Cycle/Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle The pyruvate molecules generated during glycolysis are transported across the mitochondrial membrane into the Access for free at openstax.org 24.2 • Carbohydrate Metabolism 1069 inner mitochondrial matrix, where they are metabolized by enzymes in a pathway called theKrebs cycle(Figure 24.7). The Krebs cycle is also commonly called the citric acid cycle or the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. During the Krebs cycle, high-energy molecules, including ATP, NADH, and FADH , are created. NADH and FADH then pass 2 2 electrons through the electron transport chain in the mitochondria to generate more ATP molecules. FIGURE24.7 Krebs Cycle During the Krebs
