Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


, are created. NADH and FADH then pass 2 2 electrons through the electron transport chain in the mitochondria to generate more ATP molecules. FIGURE24.7 Krebs Cycle During the Krebs cycle, each pyruvate that is generated by glycolysis is converted into a two-carbon acetyl CoA molecule. The acetyl CoA is systematically processed through the cycle and produces high-energy NADH, FADH2, and ATP molecules. INTERACTIVE LINK Watch thisanimation( observe the Krebs cycle. The three-carbon pyruvate molecule generated during glycolysis moves from the cytoplasm into the mitochondrial matrix, where it is converted by the enzyme pyruvate dehydrogenase into a two-carbonacetyl coenzyme A (acetyl CoA)molecule. This reaction is an oxidative decarboxylation reaction. It converts the three-carbon pyruvate into a 1070 24 • Metabolism and Nutrition two-carbon acetyl CoA molecule, releasing carbon dioxide and transferring two electrons that combine with NAD+to form NADH. Acetyl CoA enters the Krebs cycle by combining with a four-carbon molecule, oxaloacetate, to form the six-carbon molecule citrate, or citric acid, at the same time releasing the coenzyme A molecule. The six-carbon citrate molecule is systematically converted to a five-carbon molecule and then a four-carbon molecule, ending with oxaloacetate, the beginning of the cycle. Along the way, each citrate molecule will produce one ATP, one FADH , and three NADH. The FADH and NADH will enter the oxidative phosphorylation system 2 2 located in the inner mitochondrial membrane. In addition, the Krebs cycle supplies the starting materials to process and break down proteins and fats. To start the Krebs cycle, citrate synthase combines acetyl CoA and oxaloacetate to form a six-carbon citrate molecule; CoA is subsequently released and can combine with another pyruvate molecule to begin the cycle again. The aconitase enzyme converts citrate into isocitrate. In two successive steps of oxidative decarboxylation, two molecules of CO and two NADH molecules are produced when isocitrate dehydrogenase converts isocitrate into 2 the five-carbon α-ketoglutarate, which is then catalyzed and converted into the four-carbon succinyl CoA by α- ketoglutarate dehydrogenase. The enzyme succinyl CoA dehydrogenase then converts succinyl CoA into succinate and forms the high-energy molecule GTP, which transfers its energy to ADP to produce ATP. Succinate dehydrogenase then converts succinate into fumarate, forming a molecule of FADH . Fumarase then converts 2 fumarate into malate, which malate dehydrogenase then converts back into oxaloacetate while reducing NAD+to NADH. Oxaloacetate is then ready to combine with the next acetyl CoA to start the
