Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


2 fumarate into malate, which malate dehydrogenase then converts back into oxaloacetate while reducing NAD+to NADH. Oxaloacetate is then ready to combine with the next acetyl CoA to start the Krebs cycle again (seeFigure 24.7). For each turn of the cycle, three NADH, one ATP (through GTP), and one FADH are created. Each carbon of 2 pyruvate is converted into CO , which is released as a byproduct of oxidative (aerobic) respiration. 2 Oxidative Phosphorylation and the Electron Transport Chain Theelectron transport chain (ETC)uses the NADH and FADH produced by the Krebs cycle to generate ATP. 2 Electrons from NADH and FADH are transferred through protein complexes embedded in the inner mitochondrial 2 membrane by a series of enzymatic reactions. The electron transport chain consists of a series of four enzyme complexes (Complex I – Complex IV) and two coenzymes (ubiquinone and Cytochrome c), which act as electron carriers and proton pumps used to transfer H+ions into the space between the inner and outer mitochondrial membranes (Figure 24.8). The ETC couples the transfer of electrons between a donor (like NADH) and an electron acceptor (like O ) with the transfer of protons (H+ions) across the inner mitochondrial membrane, enabling the 2 process ofoxidative phosphorylation. In the presence of oxygen, energy is passed, stepwise, through the electron carriers to collect gradually the energy needed to attach a phosphate to ADP and produce ATP. The role of molecular oxygen, O , is as the terminal electron acceptor for the ETC. This means that once the electrons have passed 2 through the entire ETC, they must be passed to another, separate molecule. These electrons, O , and H+ions from 2 the matrix combine to form new water molecules. This is the basis for your need to breathe in oxygen. Without oxygen, electron flow through the ETC ceases. Access for free at openstax.org 24.2 • Carbohydrate Metabolism 1071 FIGURE24.8 Electron Transport Chain The electron transport chain is a series of electron carriers and ion pumps that are used to pump H+ions out of the inner mitochondrial matrix. INTERACTIVE LINK Watch thisvideo( learn about the electron transport chain. The electrons released from NADH and FADH are passed along the chain by each of the carriers, which are reduced 2 when they receive the electron and oxidized when passing it on to the next carrier. Each of these reactions releases a small amount of energy, which
