Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


which are reduced 2 when they receive the electron and oxidized when passing it on to the next carrier. Each of these reactions releases a small amount of energy, which is used to pump H+ions across the inner membrane. The accumulation of these protons in the space between the membranes creates a proton gradient with respect to the mitochondrial matrix. Also embedded in the inner mitochondrial membrane is an amazing protein pore complex calledATP synthase. Effectively, it is a turbine that is powered by the flow of H+ions across the inner membrane down a gradient and into the mitochondrial matrix. As the H+ions traverse the complex, the shaft of the complex rotates. This rotation enables other portions of ATP synthase to encourage ADP and P to create ATP. In accounting for the total number of i ATP produced per glucose molecule through aerobic respiration, it is important to remember the following points: • A net of two ATP are produced through glycolysis (four produced and two consumed during the energy- consuming stage). However, these two ATP are used for transporting the NADH produced during glycolysis from the cytoplasm into the mitochondria. Therefore, the net production of ATP during glycolysis is zero. • In all phases after glycolysis, the number of ATP, NADH, and FADH produced must be multiplied by two to 2 reflect how each glucose molecule produces two pyruvate molecules. • In the ETC, about three ATP are produced for every oxidized NADH. However, only about two ATP are produced for every oxidized FADH . The electrons from FADH produce less ATP, because they start at a lower point in the 2 2 ETC (Complex II) compared to the electrons from NADH (Complex I) (seeFigure 24.8). Therefore, for every glucose molecule that enters aerobic respiration, a net total of 36 ATPs are produced (Figure 24.9). 1072 24 • Metabolism and Nutrition FIGURE24.9 Carbohydrate Metabolism Carbohydrate metabolism involves glycolysis, the Krebs cycle, and the electron transport chain. Gluconeogenesis Gluconeogenesisis the synthesis of new glucose molecules from pyruvate, lactate, glycerol, or the amino acids alanine or glutamine. This process takes place primarily in the liver during periods of low glucose, that is, under conditions of fasting, starvation, and low carbohydrate diets. So, the question can be raised as to why the body would create something it has just spent a fair amount of effort to break down? Certain key organs, including
