Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


to inhibit seniors from engaging in sufficient physical activity. This results in a positive-feedback system where the reduced physical activity leads to even more muscle loss, further reducing metabolism. There are several things that can be done to help prevent general declines in metabolism and to fight back against the cyclic nature of these declines. These include eating breakfast, eating small meals frequently, consuming plenty of lean protein, drinking water to remain hydrated, exercising (including strength training), and getting enough sleep. These measures can help keep energy levels from dropping and curb the urge for increased calorie consumption from excessive snacking. While these strategies are not guaranteed to maintain metabolism, they do help prevent muscle loss and may increase energy levels. Some experts also suggest avoiding sugar, which can lead to excess fat storage. Spicy foods and green tea might also be beneficial. Because stress activates cortisol release, and cortisol slows metabolism, avoiding stress, or at least practicing relaxation techniques, can also help. 24.3 Lipid Metabolism LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Explain how energy can be derived from fat • Explain the purpose and process of ketogenesis • Describe the process of ketone body oxidation • Explain the purpose and the process of lipogenesis Fats (or triglycerides) within the body are ingested as food or synthesized by adipocytes or hepatocytes from carbohydrate precursors (Figure 24.11). Lipid metabolism entails the oxidation of fatty acids to either generate energy or synthesize new lipids from smaller constituent molecules. Lipid metabolism is associated with carbohydrate metabolism, as products of glucose (such as acetyl CoA) can be converted into lipids. 1076 24 • Metabolism and Nutrition FIGURE24.11 Triglyceride Broken Down into a Monoglyceride A triglyceride molecule (a) breaks down into a monoglyceride (b). Lipid metabolism begins in the intestine where ingestedtriglyceridesare broken down into smaller chain fatty acids and subsequently intomonoglyceride molecules(seeFigure 24.11b) bypancreatic lipases, enzymes that break down fats after they are emulsified bybile salts. When food reaches the small intestine in the form of chyme, a digestive hormone calledcholecystokinin (CCK)is released by intestinal cells in the intestinal mucosa. CCK stimulates the release of pancreatic lipase from the pancreas and stimulates the contraction of the gallbladder to release stored bile salts into the intestine. CCK also travels to the brain, where it can act as a hunger suppressant. Together, the pancreatic lipases and bile salts
