Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


CoA. Oxaloacetate and acetyl CoA combine to form citrate, which can cross the mitochondrial membrane and enter the cytoplasm. In the cytoplasm, citrate is converted back into oxaloacetate and acetyl CoA. Oxaloacetate is converted into malate and then into pyruvate. Pyruvate crosses back across the mitochondrial membrane to wait for the next cycle of lipogenesis. The acetyl CoA is converted into malonyl CoA that is used to synthesize fatty acids.Figure 24.16 summarizes the pathways of lipid metabolism. Access for free at openstax.org 24.4 • Protein Metabolism 1081 FIGURE24.16 Lipid Metabolism Lipids may follow one of several pathways during metabolism. Glycerol and fatty acids follow different pathways. 24.4 Protein Metabolism LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe how the body digests proteins • Explain how the urea cycle prevents toxic concentrations of nitrogen • Differentiate between glucogenic and ketogenic amino acids • Explain how protein can be used for energy Much of the body is made of protein, and these proteins take on a myriad of forms. They represent cell signaling receptors, signaling molecules, structural members, enzymes, intracellular trafficking components, extracellular matrix scaffolds, ion pumps, ion channels, oxygen and CO transporters (hemoglobin). That is not even the complete 2 list! There is protein in bones (collagen), muscles, and tendons; the hemoglobin that transports oxygen; and enzymes that catalyze all biochemical reactions. Protein is also used for growth and repair. Amid all these necessary functions, proteins also hold the potential to serve as a metabolic fuel source. Proteins are not stored for later use, so excess proteins must be converted into glucose or triglycerides, and used to supply energy or build energy reserves. Although the body can synthesize proteins from amino acids, food is an important source of those amino acids, especially because humans cannot synthesize all of the 20 amino acids used to build proteins. 1082 24 • Metabolism and Nutrition The digestion of proteins begins in the stomach. When protein-rich foods enter the stomach, they are greeted by a mixture of the enzymepepsinand hydrochloric acid (HCl; 0.5 percent). The latter produces an environmental pH of 1.5–3.5 that denatures proteins within food. Pepsin cuts proteins into smaller polypeptides and their constituent amino acids. When the food-gastric juice mixture (chyme) enters the small intestine, the pancreas releasessodium bicarbonateto neutralize the HCl. This helps to protect the lining of the intestine. The small intestine also
