Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Amino acid decomposition results in hydrocarbons and nitrogenous waste. However, high concentrations of nitrogenous byproducts are toxic. The urea cycle processes nitrogen and facilitates its excretion from the body. Access for free at openstax.org 24.4 • Protein Metabolism 1083 Urea Cycle Theurea cycleis a set of biochemical reactions that produces urea from ammonium ions in order to prevent a toxic level of ammonium in the body. It occurs primarily in the liver and, to a lesser extent, in the kidney. Prior to the urea cycle, ammonium ions are produced from the breakdown of amino acids. In these reactions, an amine group, or ammonium ion, from the amino acid is exchanged with a keto group on another molecule. Thistransamination event creates a molecule that is necessary for the Krebs cycle and an ammonium ion that enters into the urea cycle to be eliminated. In the urea cycle, ammonium is combined with CO , resulting in urea and water. The urea is eliminated through the 2 kidneys in the urine (Figure 24.18). 1084 24 • Metabolism and Nutrition FIGURE24.18 Urea Cycle Nitrogen is transaminated, creating ammonia and intermediates of the Krebs cycle. Ammonia is processed in the urea cycle to produce urea that is eliminated through the kidneys. Amino acids can also be used as a source of energy, especially in times of starvation. Because the processing of amino acids results in the creation of metabolic intermediates, including pyruvate, acetyl CoA, acetoacyl CoA, oxaloacetate, and α-ketoglutarate, amino acids can serve as a source of energy production through the Krebs cycle (Figure 24.19).Figure 24.20summarizes the pathways of catabolism and anabolism for carbohydrates, lipids, and proteins. Access for free at openstax.org 24.4 • Protein Metabolism 1085 FIGURE24.19 Energy from Amino Acids Amino acids can be broken down into precursors for glycolysis or the Krebs cycle. Amino acids (in bold) can enter the cycle through more than one pathway. 1086 24 • Metabolism and Nutrition FIGURE24.20 Catabolic and Anabolic Pathways Nutrients follow a complex pathway from ingestion through anabolism and catabolism to energy production. Disorders of the... Metabolism: Pyruvate Dehydrogenase Complex Deficiency and Phenylketonuria Pyruvate dehydrogenase complex deficiency (PDCD) and phenylketonuria (PKU) are genetic disorders. Pyruvate dehydrogenase is the enzyme that converts pyruvate into acetyl CoA, the molecule necessary to begin the Krebs cycle to produce ATP. With low levels of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC), the rate of cycling through the Krebs cycle is
