Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


involved in a number of processes, including mineral and bone metabolism, and cell and tissue growth, and they act as cofactors for energy metabolism. The B vitamins play the largest role of any vitamins in metabolism (Table 24.3andTable 24.4). You get most of your vitamins through your diet, although some can be formed from the precursors absorbed during digestion. For example, the body synthesizes vitamin A from the β-carotene in orange vegetables like carrots and sweet potatoes. Vitamins are either fat-soluble or water-soluble. Fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K, are absorbed through the intestinal tract with lipids in chylomicrons. Vitamin D is also synthesized in the skin through exposure to sunlight. Because they are carried in lipids, fat-soluble vitamins can accumulate in the lipids stored in the body. If excess vitamins are retained in the lipid stores in the body, hypervitaminosis can result. Water-soluble vitamins, including the eight B vitamins and vitamin C, are absorbed with water in the gastrointestinal tract. These vitamins move easily through bodily fluids, which are water based, so they are not stored in the body. Excess water-soluble vitamins are excreted in the urine. Therefore, hypervitaminosis of water-soluble vitamins rarely occurs, except with an excess of vitamin supplements. 1096 24 • Metabolism and Nutrition Fat-soluble Vitamins Vitamin and Recommended Problems associated with alternative Sources daily Function deficiency name allowance Yellow and orange fruits and Eye and bone A Night blindness, epithelial vegetables, dark development, retinal or β- 700–900µg changes, immune system green leafy immune carotene deficiency vegetables, eggs, function milk, liver Dairy products, egg Aids in Rickets, bone pain, muscle yolks; also calcium weakness, increased risk of death D synthesized in the 5–15µg absorption, from cardiovascular disease, cholecalciferol skin from exposure promoting cognitive impairment, asthma in to sunlight bone growth children, cancer Seeds, nuts, E vegetable oils, 15 mg Antioxidant Anemia tocopherols avocados, wheat germ Dark green leafy Blood K vegetables, broccoli, Hemorrhagic disease of newborn in 90–120µg clotting, bone phylloquinone Brussels sprouts, infants; uncommon in adults health cabbage TABLE24.3 Water-soluble Vitamins Vitamin and Recommended Problems associated alternative Sources daily Function with deficiency name allowance Whole grains, B Carbohydrate Beriberi, Wernicke- 1 enriched bread and 1.1–1.2 mg thiamine metabolism Korsakoff syndrome cereals, milk, meat Brewer’s yeast, Fatigue, slowed growth, almonds, milk, organ Synthesis of FAD digestive problems, light B meats, legumes, for metabolism, 2 1.1–1.3 mg sensitivity, epithelial riboflavin enriched breads and production of red
