Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


states. food, into their constituent smaller parts. They also 24.2Carbohydrate Metabolism include the breakdown of ATP, which releases the energy needed for metabolic processes in all cells Metabolic enzymes catalyze catabolic reactions that throughout the body. break down carbohydrates contained in food. The energy released is used to power the cells and systems Anabolic reactions, or biosynthetic reactions, that make up your body. Excess or unutilized energy is synthesize larger molecules from smaller constituent Access for free at openstax.org 24 • Chapter Review 1103 stored as fat or glycogen for later use. Carbohydrate synthesis or lipogenesis. Acetyl CoA is used to create metabolism begins in the mouth, where the enzyme lipids, triglycerides, steroid hormones, cholesterol, and salivary amylase begins to break down complex sugars bile salts. Lipolysis is the breakdown of triglycerides into monosaccharides. These can then be transported into glycerol and fatty acids, making them easier for the across the intestinal membrane into the bloodstream body to process. and then to body tissues. In the cells, glucose, a six- 24.4Protein Metabolism carbon sugar, is processed through a sequence of reactions into smaller sugars, and the energy stored Digestion of proteins begins in the stomach, where HCl inside the molecule is released. The first step of and pepsin begin the process of breaking down carbohydrate catabolism is glycolysis, which produces proteins into their constituent amino acids. As the pyruvate, NADH, and ATP. Under anaerobic conditions, chyme enters the small intestine, it mixes with the pyruvate can be converted into lactate to keep bicarbonate and digestive enzymes. The bicarbonate glycolysis working. Under aerobic conditions, pyruvate neutralizes the acidic HCl, and the digestive enzymes enters the Krebs cycle, also called the citric acid cycle break down the proteins into smaller peptides and or tricarboxylic acid cycle. In addition to ATP, the Krebs amino acids. Digestive hormones secretin and CCK are cycle produces high-energy FADH 2and NADH released from the small intestine to aid in digestive molecules, which provide electrons to the oxidative processes, and digestive proenzymes are released phosphorylation process that generates more high- from the pancreas (trypsinogen and energy ATP molecules. For each molecule of glucose chymotrypsinogen). Enterokinase, an enzyme located that is processed in glycolysis, a net of 36 ATPs can be in the wall of the small intestine, activates trypsin, created by aerobic respiration. which in turn activates chymotrypsin. These enzymes liberate the individual amino acids that are then
