Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


can be in the wall of the small intestine, activates trypsin, created by aerobic respiration. which in turn activates chymotrypsin. These enzymes liberate the individual amino acids that are then Under anaerobic conditions, ATP production is limited transported via sodium-amino acid transporters across to those generated by glycolysis. While a total of four the intestinal wall into the cell. The amino acids are ATPs are produced by glycolysis, two are needed to then transported into the bloodstream for dispersal to begin glycolysis, so there is a net yield of two ATP the liver and cells throughout the body to be used to molecules. create new proteins. When in excess, the amino acids In conditions of low glucose, such as fasting, are processed and stored as glucose or ketones. The starvation, or low carbohydrate diets, glucose can be nitrogen waste that is liberated in this process is synthesized from lactate, pyruvate, glycerol, alanine, or converted to urea in the urea acid cycle and eliminated glutamate. This process, called gluconeogenesis, is in the urine. In times of starvation, amino acids can be almost the reverse of glycolysis and serves to create used as an energy source and processed through the glucose molecules for glucose-dependent organs, such Krebs cycle. as the brain, when glucose levels fall below normal. 24.5Metabolic States of the Body 24.3Lipid Metabolism There are three main metabolic states of the body: Lipids are available to the body from three sources. absorptive (fed), postabsorptive (fasting), and They can be ingested in the diet, stored in the adipose starvation. During any given day, your metabolism tissue of the body, or synthesized in the liver. Fats switches between absorptive and postabsorptive ingested in the diet are digested in the small intestine. states. Starvation states happen very rarely in generally The triglycerides are broken down into monoglycerides well-nourished individuals. When the body is fed, and free fatty acids, then imported across the intestinal glucose, fats, and proteins are absorbed across the mucosa. Once across, the triglycerides are intestinal membrane and enter the bloodstream and resynthesized and transported to the liver or adipose lymphatic system to be used immediately for fuel. Any tissue. Fatty acids are oxidized through fatty acid or β- excess is stored for later fasting stages. As blood oxidation into two-carbon acetyl CoA molecules, which glucose levels rise, the pancreas releases insulin to can then enter the Krebs cycle to generate ATP.
