Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


for later fasting stages. As blood oxidation into two-carbon acetyl CoA molecules, which glucose levels rise, the pancreas releases insulin to can then enter the Krebs cycle to generate ATP. If stimulate the uptake of glucose by hepatocytes in the excess acetyl CoA is created and overloads the liver, muscle cells/fibers, and adipocytes (fat cells), and capacity of the Krebs cycle, the acetyl CoA can be used to promote its conversion to glycogen. As the to synthesize ketone bodies. When glucose is limited, postabsorptive state begins, glucose levels drop, and ketone bodies can be oxidized and used for fuel. there is a corresponding drop in insulin levels. Falling Excess acetyl CoA generated from excess glucose or glucose levels trigger the pancreas to release glucagon carbohydrate ingestion can be used for fatty acid to turn off glycogen synthesis in the liver and stimulate 1104 24 • Review Questions its breakdown into glucose. The glucose is released mechanisms to return the temperature to its normal into the bloodstream to serve as a fuel source for cells range. The body can also gain or lose heat through throughout the body. If glycogen stores are depleted mechanisms of heat exchange. Conduction transfers during fasting, alternative sources, including fatty acids heat from one object to another through physical and proteins, can be metabolized and used as fuel. contact. Convection transfers heat to air or water. When the body once again enters the absorptive state Radiation transfers heat via infrared radiation. after fasting, fats and proteins are digested and used to Evaporation transfers heat as water changes state from replenish fat and protein stores, whereas glucose is a liquid to a gas. processed and used first to replenish the glycogen 24.7Nutrition and Diet stores in the peripheral tissues, then in the liver. If the fast is not broken and starvation begins to set in, during Nutrition and diet affect your metabolism. More energy the initial days, glucose produced from is required to break down fats and proteins than gluconeogenesis is still used by the brain and organs. carbohydrates; however, all excess calories that are After a few days, however, ketone bodies are created ingested will be stored as fat in the body. On average, a from fats and serve as the preferential fuel source for person requires 1500 to 2000 calories for normal daily the heart and other organs, so that the brain can still activity,
