Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


24. The heat you feel on your chair when you stand up b. vegetables was transferred from your skin via ________. c. lean meats a. conduction d. fruits b. convection 29. Which of the following is stored in the body? c. radiation a. thiamine d. evaporation b. phosphorous c. folic acid d. vitamin C Critical Thinking Questions 30. Describe how metabolism can be altered. 38. In type II diabetes, insulin is produced but is 31. Describe how Addison’s disease can be treated. nonfunctional. These patients are described as 32. Explain how glucose is metabolized to yield ATP. “starving in a sea of plenty,” because their blood 33. Insulin is released when food is ingested and glucose levels are high, but none of the glucose is stimulates the uptake of glucose into the cell. transported into the cells. Describe how this leads Discuss the mechanism cells employ to create a to malnutrition. concentration gradient to ensure continual uptake 39. Ketone bodies are used as an alternative source of of glucose from the bloodstream. fuel during starvation. Describe how ketones are 34. Discuss how carbohydrates can be stored as fat. synthesized. 35. If a person with diabetes that has breath smells 40. How does vasoconstriction help increase the core like alcohol, what could this mean? temperature of the body? 36. Amino acids are not stored in the body. Describe 41. How can the ingestion of food increase the body how excess amino acids are processed in the cell. temperature? 37. Release of trypsin and chymotrypsin in their active 42. Weight loss and weight gain are complex form can result in the digestion of the pancreas or processes. What are some of the main factors that small intestine itself. What mechanism does the influence weight gain in people? body employ to prevent its self-destruction? Access for free at openstax.org 24 • Critical Thinking Questions 1107 43. Some low-fat or non-fat foods contain a large amount of sugar to replace the fat content of the food. Discuss how this leads to increased fat in the body (and weight gain) even though the item is non-fat. 1108 24 • Critical Thinking Questions Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 25 The Urinary System Figure25.1 Sewage Treatment Plant(credit: “thekirbster”/flickr.com) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Describe the composition of urine • Label structures of the urinary system • Characterize the roles
