Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


kidneys to process body fluids and store it in the bladder. Another way of looking at this is that the quality of the urine produced is an average over the time it takes to make that urine. Producing clear urine may take only a few minutes if you are drinking a lot of water or several hours if you are working outside and not drinking much. Normal Urine Characteristics Characteristic Normal values Color Pale yellow to deep amber Odor Odorless Volume 750–2000 mL/24 hour pH 4.5–8.0 Specific gravity 1.003–1.032 TABLE25.1 Access for free at openstax.org 25.1 • Physical Characteristics of Urine 1111 Characteristic Normal values Osmolarity 40–1350 mOsmol/kg Urobilinogen 0.2–1.0 mg/100 mL White blood cells 0–2 HPF (per high-power field of microscope) Leukocyte esterase None Protein None or trace Bilirubin <0.3 mg/100 mL Ketones None Nitrites None Blood None Glucose None TABLE25.1 Urinalysis(urine analysis) often provides clues to renal disease. Normally, only traces of protein are found in urine, and when higher amounts are found, damage to the glomeruli is the likely basis. Unusually large quantities of urine may point to diseases like diabetes mellitus or hypothalamic tumors that cause diabetes insipidus. The color of urine is determined mostly by the breakdown products of red blood cell destruction (Figure 25.2). The “heme” of hemoglobin is converted by the liver into water-soluble forms that can be excreted into the bile and indirectly into the urine. This yellow pigment isurochrome. Urine color may also be affected by certain foods like beets, berries, and fava beans. A kidney stone or a cancer of the urinary system may produce sufficient bleeding to manifest as pink or even bright red urine. Diseases of the liver or obstructions of bile drainage from the liver impart a dark “tea” or “cola” hue to the urine. Dehydration produces darker, concentrated urine that may also possess the slight odor of ammonia. Most of the ammonia produced from protein breakdown is converted into urea by the liver, so ammonia is rarely detected in fresh urine. The strong ammonia odor you may detect in bathrooms or alleys is due to the breakdown of urea into ammonia by bacteria in the environment. About one in five people detect a distinctive odor in their urine after consuming asparagus; other foods such as onions, garlic, and fish can impart their own aromas! These food-caused odors are harmless. 1112 25 • The Urinary System FIGURE25.2
