Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


their urine after consuming asparagus; other foods such as onions, garlic, and fish can impart their own aromas! These food-caused odors are harmless. 1112 25 • The Urinary System FIGURE25.2 Urine Color Urine volume varies considerably. The normal range is one to two liters per day (Table 25.2). The kidneys must produce a minimum urine volume of about 500 mL/day to rid the body of wastes. Output below this level may be caused by severe dehydration or renal disease and is termedoliguria. The virtual absence of urine production is termedanuria. Excessive urine production ispolyuria, which may be due to diabetes mellitus or diabetes insipidus. In diabetes mellitus, blood glucose levels exceed the number of available sodium-glucose transporters in the kidney, and glucose appears in the urine. The osmotic nature of glucose attracts water, leading to its loss in the urine. In the case of diabetes insipidus, insufficient pituitary antidiuretic hormone (ADH) release or insufficient numbers of ADH receptors in the collecting ducts means that too few water channels are inserted into the cell membranes that line the collecting ducts of the kidney. Insufficient numbers of water channels (aquaporins) reduce water absorption, resulting in high volumes of very dilute urine. Urine Volumes Volume Volume Causes condition 1–2 L/ Normal day >2.5 L/ Diabetes mellitus; diabetes insipidus; excess caffeine or alcohol; kidney disease; Polyuria day certain drugs, such as diuretics; sickle cell anemia; excessive water intake TABLE25.2 Access for free at openstax.org 25.2 • Gross Anatomy of Urine Transport 1113 Volume Volume Causes condition 300–500 Oliguria Dehydration; blood loss; diarrhea; cardiogenic shock; kidney disease; enlarged prostate mL/day <50 mL/ Anuria Kidney failure; obstruction, such as kidney stone or tumor; enlarged prostate day TABLE25.2 The pH (hydrogen ion concentration) of the urine can vary more than 1000-fold, from a normal low of 4.5 to a maximum of 8.0. Diet can influence pH; meats lower the pH, whereas citrus fruits, vegetables, and dairy products raise the pH. Chronically high or low pH can lead to disorders, such as the development of kidney stones or osteomalacia. Specific gravity is a measure of the quantity of solutes per unit volume of a solution and is traditionally easier to measure than osmolarity. Urine will always have a specific gravity greater than pure water (water = 1.0) due to the presence of solutes. Laboratories can now measure urine osmolarity directly, which is a more accurate indicator of urinary
