Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


of longitudinal and circular smooth muscles that create the peristaltic contractions to move the urine into the bladder without the aid of gravity. Finally, a loose adventitial layer composed of collagen and fat anchors the ureters between the parietal peritoneum and the posterior abdominal wall. Access for free at openstax.org 25.3 • Gross Anatomy of the Kidney 1117 FIGURE25.6 Ureter Peristaltic contractions help to move urine through the lumen with contributions from fluid pressure and gravity. LM × 128. (Micrograph provided by the Regents of the University of Michigan Medical School © 2012) 25.3 Gross Anatomy of the Kidney LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the external structure of the kidney, including its location, support structures, and covering • Identify the major internal divisions and structures of the kidney • Identify the major blood vessels associated with the kidney and trace the path of blood through the kidney • Compare and contrast the cortical and juxtamedullary nephrons • Name structures found in the cortex and medulla • Describe the physiological characteristics of the cortex and medulla The kidneys lie on either side of the spine in the retroperitoneal space between the parietal peritoneum and the posterior abdominal wall, well protected by muscle, fat, and ribs. They are roughly the size of your fist, and the male kidney is typically a bit larger than the female kidney. The kidneys are well vascularized, receiving about 25 percent of the cardiac output at rest. INTERACTIVE LINK There have never been sufficient kidney donations to provide a kidney to each person needing one. Watch thisvideo ( learn about the TED (Technology, Entertainment, Design) Conference held in March 2011. In this video, Dr. Anthony Atala discusses a cutting-edge technique in which a new kidney is “printed.” The successful utilization of this technology is still several years in the future, but imagine a time when you can print a replacement organ or tissue on demand. External Anatomy The left kidney is located at about the T12 to L3 vertebrae, whereas the right is lower due to slight displacement by the liver. Upper portions of the kidneys are somewhat protected by the eleventh and twelfth ribs (Figure 25.7). Each kidney weighs about 125–175 g in males and 115–155 g in females. They are about 11–14 cm in length, 6 cm wide, and 4 cm thick, and are directly
