Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Each kidney weighs about 125–175 g in males and 115–155 g in females. They are about 11–14 cm in length, 6 cm wide, and 4 cm thick, and are directly covered by a fibrous capsule composed of dense, irregular connective tissue that helps to hold their shape and protect them. This capsule is covered by a shock-absorbing layer of adipose tissue 1118 25 • The Urinary System called therenal fat pad, which in turn is encompassed by a tough renal fascia. The fascia and, to a lesser extent, the overlying peritoneum serve to firmly anchor the kidneys to the posterior abdominal wall in a retroperitoneal position. FIGURE25.7 Kidneys The kidneys are slightly protected by the ribs and are surrounded by fat for protection (not shown). On the superior aspect of each kidney is the adrenal gland. The adrenal cortex directly influences renal function through the production of the hormone aldosterone to stimulate sodium reabsorption. Internal Anatomy A frontal section through the kidney reveals an outer region called therenal cortexand an inner region called the medulla(Figure 25.8). Therenal columnsare connective tissue extensions that radiate downward from the cortex through the medulla to separate the most characteristic features of the medulla, therenal pyramidsandrenal papillae. The papillae are bundles of collecting ducts that transport urine made by nephrons to thecalycesof the kidney for excretion. The renal columns also serve to divide the kidney into 6–8 lobes and provide a supportive framework for vessels that enter and exit the cortex. The pyramids and renal columns taken together constitute the kidney lobes. FIGURE25.8 Left Kidney Access for free at openstax.org 25.3 • Gross Anatomy of the Kidney 1119 Renal Hilum Therenal hilumis the entry and exit site for structures servicing the kidneys: vessels, nerves, lymphatics, and ureters. The medial-facing hila are tucked into the sweeping convex outline of the cortex. Emerging from the hilum is the renal pelvis, which is formed from the major and minor calyxes in the kidney. The smooth muscle in the renal pelvis funnels urine via peristalsis into the ureter. The renal arteries form directly from the descending aorta, whereas the renal veins return cleansed blood directly to the inferior vena cava. The artery, vein, and renal pelvis are arranged in an anterior-to-posterior order. Nephrons and Vessels The renal artery first divides into segmental arteries, followed by further branching to form interlobar arteries that pass through the renal columns to reach
