Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


convoluted tubules are found here. Some nephrons have a shortloop of Henlethat does not dip beyond the cortex. These nephrons are calledcortical nephrons. About 15 percent of nephrons have long loops of Henle that extend deep into the medulla and are calledjuxtamedullary nephrons. Access for free at openstax.org 25.4 • Microscopic Anatomy of the Kidney 1121 25.4 Microscopic Anatomy of the Kidney LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Distinguish the histological differences between the renal cortex and medulla • Describe the structure of the filtration membrane • Identify the major structures and subdivisions of the renal corpuscles, renal tubules, and renal capillaries • Discuss the function of the peritubular capillaries and vasa recta • Identify the location of the juxtaglomerular apparatus and describe the cells that line it • Describe the histology of the proximal convoluted tubule, loop of Henle, distal convoluted tubule, and collecting ducts The renal structures that conduct the essential work of the kidney cannot be seen by the naked eye. Only a light or electron microscope can reveal these structures. Even then, serial sections and computer reconstruction are necessary to give us a comprehensive view of the functional anatomy of the nephron and its associated blood vessels. Nephrons: The Functional Unit Nephrons take a simple filtrate of the blood and modify it into urine. Many changes take place in the different parts of the nephron before urine is created for disposal. The termforming urinewill be used hereafter to describe the filtrate as it is modified into true urine. The principle task of the nephron population is to balance the plasma to homeostatic set points and excrete potential toxins in the urine. They do this by accomplishing three principle functions—filtration, reabsorption, and secretion. They also have additional secondary functions that exert control in three areas: blood pressure (via production ofrenin), red blood cell production (via the hormone EPO), and calcium absorption (via conversion of calcidiol into calcitriol, the active form of vitamin D). Renal Corpuscle As discussed earlier, the renal corpuscle consists of a tuft of capillaries called the glomerulus that is largely surrounded by Bowman’s (glomerular) capsule. The glomerulus is a high-pressure capillary bed between afferent and efferent arterioles. Bowman’s capsule surrounds the glomerulus to form a lumen, and captures and directs this filtrate to the PCT. The outermost part of Bowman’s capsule, the parietal layer, is a
