Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


to osmosis. 25.5 Physiology of Urine Formation LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the hydrostatic and colloid osmotic forces that favor and oppose filtration • Describe glomerular filtration rate (GFR), state the average value of GFR, and explain how clearance rate can be used to measure GFR • Predict specific factors that will increase or decrease GFR • State the percent of the filtrate that is normally reabsorbed and explain why the process of reabsorption is so important • Calculate daily urine production • List common symptoms of kidney failure Having reviewed the anatomy and microanatomy of the urinary system, now is the time to focus on the physiology. You will discover that different parts of the nephron utilize specific processes to produce urine: filtration, reabsorption, and secretion. You will learn how each of these processes works and where they occur along the nephron and collecting ducts. The physiologic goal is to modify the composition of the plasma and, in doing so, produce the waste product urine. Failure of the renal anatomy and/or physiology can lead suddenly or gradually to renal failure. In this event, a number of symptoms, signs, or laboratory findings point to the diagnosis (Table 25.3). Symptoms of Kidney Failure Weakness Lethargy Shortness of breath Widespread edema Anemia Metabolic acidosis Metabolic alkalosis Heart arrhythmias Uremia (high urea level in the blood) Loss of appetite TABLE25.3 1126 25 • The Urinary System Fatigue Excessive urination Oliguria (too little urine output) TABLE25.3 Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR) The volume of filtrate formed by both kidneys per minute is termed theglomerular filtration rate (GFR). The heart pumps about 5 L blood per min under resting conditions. Approximately 20 percent or one liter enters the kidneys to be filtered. On average, this liter results in the production of about 125 mL/min filtrate produced in males (range of 90 to 140 mL/min) and 105 mL/min filtrate produced in females (range of 80 to 125 mL/min). This amount equates to a volume of about 180 L/day in males and 150 L/day in females. Ninety-nine percent of this filtrate is returned to the circulation by reabsorption so that only about 1–2 liters of urine are produced per day (Table 25.4). Calculating Urine Formation per Day Flow per minute Calculation (mL) Cardiac output is about 5000 mL/minute, of which 21 percent flows through the Renal kidney. 1050
