Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


300 mOsmol/kg to about 1200 mOsmol/kg in the filtrate. This increase results in reabsorption of up to 15 percent of the water entering the nephron. Modest amounts of urea, Na+, and other ions are also recovered here. Most of the solutes that were filtered in the glomerulus have now been recovered along with a majority of water, about 82 percent. As the forming urine enters the ascending loop, major adjustments will be made to the concentration of solutes to create what you perceive as urine. Ascending Loop The ascending loop is made of very short thin and longer thick portions. Once again, to simplify the function, this section only considers the thick portion. The thick portion is lined with simple cuboidal epithelium without a brush border. It is completely impermeable to water due to the absence of aquaporin proteins, but ions, mainly Na+and CL–, are actively reabsorbed by a cotransport system. This has two significant effects: Removal of NaCl while retaining water leads to a hypoosomotic filtrate by the time it reaches the DCT; pumping NaCl into the interstitial space contributes to the hyperosmotic environment in the kidney medulla. The Na+/K+ATPase pumps in the basal membrane create an electrochemical gradient, allowing reabsorption of Cl– by Na+/Cl–symporters in the apical membrane. At the same time that Na+is actively pumped from the basal side of the cell into the interstitial fluid, Cl–follows the Na+from the lumeninto the interstitial fluid by a paracellular route between cells throughleaky tight junctions. These are found between cells of the ascending loop, where they allow certain solutes to move according to their concentration gradient. Most of the K+that enters the cell via symporters returns to the lumen (down its concentration gradient) through leaky channels in the apical membrane. Note the environment now created in the interstitial space: With the “back door exiting” K+, there is one Na+and two Cl–ions left in the interstitium surrounding the ascending loop. Therefore, in comparison to the lumen of the loop, the Access for free at openstax.org 25.6 • Tubular Reabsorption 1135 interstitial space is now a negatively charged environment. This negative charge attracts cations (Na+, K+, Ca++, and Mg++) from the lumen via a paracellular route to the interstitial space and vasa recta. Countercurrent Multiplier System The structure of the loop of Henle and associated vasa recta create acountercurrent multiplier system(Figure 25.20). The countercurrent term comes from the fact that the
