Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


vasa recta. Countercurrent Multiplier System The structure of the loop of Henle and associated vasa recta create acountercurrent multiplier system(Figure 25.20). The countercurrent term comes from the fact that the descending and ascending loops are next to each other and their fluid flows in opposite directions (countercurrent). The multiplier term is due to the action of solute pumps that increase (multiply) the concentrations of urea and Na+deep in the medulla. FIGURE25.20 Countercurrent Multiplier System As discussed above, the ascending loop actively reabsorbs NaCl out of the forming urine into the interstitial spaces. In addition, collecting ducts have urea pumps that actively pump urea into the interstitial spaces. This results in the recovery of NaCl to the circulation via the vasa recta and creates a high osmolar environment in the depths of the medulla. Ammonia (NH ) is a toxic byproduct of protein metabolism. It is formed as amino acids are deaminated by liver 3 hepatocytes. That means that the amine group, NH , is removed from amino acids as they are broken down. Most of 2 the resulting ammonia is converted into urea by liver hepatocytes. Urea is not only less toxic but is utilized to aid in the recovery of water by the loop of Henle and collecting ducts. At the same time that water is freely diffusing out of the descending loop through aquaporin channels into the interstitial spaces of the medulla, urea freely diffuses into the lumen of the descending loop as it descends deeper into the medulla, much of it to be reabsorbed from the forming urine when it reaches the collecting duct. Thus, the movement of Na+and urea into the interstitial spaces by these mechanisms creates the hyperosmotic environment of the medulla. The net result of this countercurrent multiplier system is to recover both water and Na+in the circulation. The amino acid glutamine can be deaminated by the kidney. As NH from the amino acid is converted into NH and 2 3 pumped into the lumen of the PCT, Na+and HCO –are excreted into the interstitial fluid of the renal pyramid via a 3 symport mechanism. When this process occurs in the cells of the PCT, the added benefit is a net loss of a hydrogen ion (complexed to ammonia to form the weak acid NH +) in the urine and a gain of a bicarbonate ion (HCO –) in the 4 3 blood. Ammonia
