Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


is removed. INTERACTIVE LINK Watch thisvideo( learn about the countercurrent multiplier system. Reabsorption and Secretion in the Distal Convoluted Tubule Approximately 80 percent of filtered water has been recovered by the time the dilute forming urine enters the DCT. The DCT will recover another 10–15 percent before the forming urine enters the collecting ducts. Aldosterone increases the amount of Na+/K+ATPase in the basal membrane of the DCT and collecting duct. The movement of Na+out of the lumen of the collecting duct creates a negative charge that promotes the movement of Cl–out of the lumen into the interstitial space by a paracellular route across tight junctions. Peritubular capillaries receive the solutes and water, returning them to the circulation. Cells of the DCT also recover Ca++from the filtrate. Receptors for parathyroid hormone (PTH) are found in DCT cells and when bound to PTH, induce the insertion of calcium channels on their luminal surface. The channels enhance Ca++recovery from the forming urine. In addition, as Na+is pumped out of the cell, the resulting electrochemical gradient attracts Ca++into the cell. Finally, calcitriol (1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D, the active form of vitamin D) is very important for calcium recovery. It induces the production of calcium-binding proteins that transport Ca++into the cell. These binding proteins are also important for the movement of calcium inside the cell and aid in exocytosis of calcium across the basolateral membrane. Any Ca++not reabsorbed at this point is lost in the urine. Collecting Ducts and Recovery of Water Solutes move across the membranes of the collecting ducts, which contain two distinct cell types, principal cells and intercalated cells. Aprincipal cellpossesses channels for the recovery or loss of sodium and potassium. An intercalated cellsecretes or absorbs acid or bicarbonate. As in other portions of the nephron, there is an array of micromachines (pumps and channels) on display in the membranes of these cells. Regulation of urine volume and osmolarity are major functions of the collecting ducts. By varying the amount of water that is recovered, the collecting ducts play a major role in maintaining the body’s normal osmolarity. If the blood becomes hyperosmotic, the collecting ducts recover more water to dilute the blood; if the blood becomes hyposmotic, the collecting ducts recover less of the water, leading to concentration of the blood. Another way of saying this is: If plasma osmolarity rises, more water is recovered and urine volume decreases; if plasma osmolarity
