Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


also pumping K+into the forming urine, since the pump moves K+in the opposite direction. When aldosterone decreases, more Na+remains in the forming urine and more K+is recovered in the circulation. Symport channels move Na+and Cl–together. Still other channels in the principal cells secrete K+into the collecting duct in direct proportion to the recovery of Na+. Intercalated cells play significant roles in regulating blood pH. Intercalated cells reabsorb K+and HCO –while 3 secreting H+. This function lowers the acidity of the plasma while increasing the acidity of the urine. 25.7 Regulation of Renal Blood Flow LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the myogenic and tubuloglomerular feedback mechanisms and explain how they affect urine volume and composition • Describe the function of the juxtaglomerular apparatus It is vital that the flow of blood through the kidney be at a suitable rate to allow for filtration. This rate determines how much solute is retained or discarded, how much water is retained or discarded, and ultimately, the osmolarity of blood and the blood pressure of the body. Sympathetic Nerves The kidneys are innervated by the sympathetic neurons of the autonomic nervous system via the celiac plexus and splanchnic nerves. Reduction of sympathetic stimulation results in vasodilation and increased blood flow through the kidneys during resting conditions. When the frequency of action potentials increases, the arteriolar smooth muscle constricts (vasoconstriction), resulting in diminished glomerular flow, so less filtration occurs. Under conditions of stress, sympathetic nervous activity increases, resulting in the direct vasoconstriction of afferent arterioles (norepinephrine effect) as well as stimulation of the adrenal medulla. The adrenal medulla, in turn, produces a generalized vasoconstriction through the release of epinephrine. This includes vasoconstriction of the afferent arterioles, further reducing the volume of blood flowing through the kidneys. This process redirects blood to other organs with more immediate needs. If blood pressure falls, the sympathetic nerves will also stimulate the release of renin. Additional renin increases production of the powerful vasoconstrictor angiotensin II. Angiotensin II, as discussed above, will also stimulate aldosterone production to augment blood volume through retention of more Na+and water. Only a 10 mm Hg pressure differential across the glomerulus is required for normal GFR, so very small changes in afferent arterial pressure significantly increase or decrease GFR. Autoregulation The kidneys are very effective at regulating the rate of blood flow over a wide range
