Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


reaching the macula densa, which will result in decreased ATP and adenosine, allowing the afferent arteriole to dilate and increase GFR. NO has the opposite effect, relaxing the afferent arteriole at the same time ATP and adenosine are stimulating it to contract. Thus, NO fine-tunes the effects of adenosine and ATP on GFR. Paracrine Mechanisms Controlling Glomerular Filtration Rate Change in NaCl Absorption Role of ATP and adenosine/Role of NO Effect on GFR GFR Increased Tubular NaCl ATP and adenosine increase, causing Vasoconstriction slows GFR increases vasoconstriction GFR Decreased Tubular NaCl ATP and adenosine decrease, causing Vasodilation increases GFR decreases vasodilation GFR Increased Tubular NaCl Vasodilation increases NO increases, causing vasodilation GFR increases GFR Decreased Tubular NaCl Vasoconstriction NO decreases, causing vasoconstricton GFR decreases decreases GFR TABLE25.7 Access for free at openstax.org 25.8 • Endocrine Regulation of Kidney Function 1139 25.8 Endocrine Regulation of Kidney Function LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe how each of the following functions in the extrinsic control of GFR: renin–angiotensin mechanism, natriuretic peptides, and sympathetic adrenergic activity • Describe how each of the following works to regulate reabsorption and secretion, so as to affect urine volume and composition: renin–angiotensin system, aldosterone, antidiuretic hormone, and natriuretic peptides • Name and define the roles of other hormones that regulate kidney control Several hormones have specific, important roles in regulating kidney function. They act to stimulate or inhibit blood flow. Some of these are endocrine, acting from a distance, whereas others are paracrine, acting locally. Renin–Angiotensin–Aldosterone Renin is an enzyme that is produced by the juxtaglomerular (JG) cells of the afferent arteriole at the JGA. It enzymatically converts angiotensinogen (made by the liver, freely circulating) into angiotensin I. Its release is stimulated by prostaglandins and NO from the JGA in response to decreased extracellular fluid volume. ACE is not a hormone but it is functionally important in regulating systemic blood pressure and kidney function. It is produced in the lungs but binds to the surfaces of endothelial cells in the afferent arterioles and glomerulus. It enzymatically converts inactive angiotensin I into active angiotensin II. ACE is important in raising blood pressure. People with high blood pressure are sometimes prescribed ACE inhibitors to lower their blood pressure. Angiotensin II is a potent vasoconstrictor that plays an immediate role in the regulation of blood pressure. It acts systemically to cause vasoconstriction
