Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


after head injury. However, it is not the only sugar that can produce a diuretic effect. In cases of poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, glucose levels exceed the capacity of the tubular glucose symporters, resulting in glucose in the urine. The unrecovered glucose becomes a powerful osmotic diuretic. Classically, in the days before glucose could be detected in the blood and urine, clinicians identified diabetes mellitus by the three Ps: polyuria (diuresis), polydipsia (increased thirst), and polyphagia (increased hunger). Regulation of Extracellular Na+ Sodium has a very strong osmotic effect and attracts water. It plays a larger role in the osmolarity of the plasma than any other circulating component of the blood. If there is too much Na+present, either due to poor control or excess dietary consumption, a series of metabolic problems ensue. There is an increase in total volume of water, which leads to hypertension (high blood pressure). Over a long period, this increases the risk of serious complications such as heart attacks, strokes, and aneurysms. It can also contribute to system-wide edema (swelling). Mechanisms for regulating Na+concentration include the renin–angiotensin–aldosterone system and ADH (see Figure 25.14). Aldosterone stimulates the uptake of Na+on the apical cell membrane of cells in the DCT and collecting ducts, whereas ADH helps to regulate Na+concentration indirectly by regulating the reabsorption of water. Regulation of Extracellular K+ Potassium is present in a 30-fold greater concentration inside the cell than outside the cell. A generalization can be made that K+and Na+concentrations will move in opposite directions. When more Na+is reabsorbed, more K+is secreted; when less Na+is reabsorbed (leading to excretion by the kidney), more K+is retained. When aldosterone causes a recovery of Na+in the nephron, a negative electrical gradient is created that promotes the secretion of K+ and Cl–into the lumen. Regulation of Cl– Chloride is important in acid–base balance in the extracellular space and has other functions, such as in the stomach, where it combines with hydrogen ions in the stomach lumen to form hydrochloric acid, aiding digestion. Its close association with Na+in the extracellular environment makes it the dominant anion of this compartment, and its regulation closely mirrors that of Na+. Regulation of Ca++and Phosphate The parathyroid glands monitor and respond to circulating levels of Ca++in the blood. When levels drop too low, PTH is released to stimulate the DCT to reabsorb Ca++from the forming urine. When levels are adequate or high, less PTH
