Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


of Ca++in the blood. When levels drop too low, PTH is released to stimulate the DCT to reabsorb Ca++from the forming urine. When levels are adequate or high, less PTH is released and more Ca++remains in the forming urine to be lost. Phosphate levels move in the opposite direction. When Ca++levels are low, PTH inhibits reabsorption of so that its blood level drops, allowing Ca++levels to rise. PTH also stimulates the renal conversion of calcidiol into calcitriol, the active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol then stimulates the intestines to absorb more Ca++from the diet. Regulation of H+, Bicarbonate, and pH The acid–base homeostasis of the body is a function of chemical buffers and physiologic buffering provided by the lungs and kidneys. Buffers, especially proteins, , and ammonia have a very large capacity to absorb or release H+as needed to resist a change in pH. They can act within fractions of a second. The lungs can rid the body of excess acid very rapidly (seconds to minutes) through the conversion of HCO –into CO , which is then exhaled. It 3 2 is rapid but has limited capacity in the face of a significant acid challenge. The kidneys can rid the body of both acid and base. The renal capacity is large but slow (minutes to hours). The cells of the PCT actively secrete H+into the forming urine as Na+is reabsorbed. The body rids itself of excess H+and raises blood pH. In the collecting ducts, the apical surfaces of intercalated cells have proton pumps that actively secrete H+into the luminal, forming urine to remove it from the body. As hydrogen ions are pumped into the forming urine, it is buffered by bicarbonate (HCO –), H PO –(dihydrogen 3 2 4 phosphate ion), or ammonia (forming NH +, ammonium ion). Urine pH typically varies in a normal range from 4.5 to 4 Access for free at openstax.org 25.10 • The Urinary System and Homeostasis 1143 8.0. Regulation of Nitrogen Wastes Nitrogen wastes are produced by the breakdown of proteins during normal metabolism. Proteins are broken down into amino acids, which in turn are deaminated by having their nitrogen groups removed. Deamination converts the amino (NH ) groups into ammonia (NH ), ammonium ion (NH +), urea, or uric acid (Figure 25.22). Ammonia is 2 3 4 extremely toxic, so most of it is very rapidly converted into urea in the liver. Human
