Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


ion (NH +), urea, or uric acid (Figure 25.22). Ammonia is 2 3 4 extremely toxic, so most of it is very rapidly converted into urea in the liver. Human urinary wastes typically contain primarily urea with small amounts of ammonium and very little uric acid. FIGURE25.22 Nitrogen Wastes Elimination of Drugs and Hormones Water-soluble drugs may be excreted in the urine and are influenced by one or all of the following processes: glomerular filtration, tubular secretion, or tubular reabsorption. Drugs that are structurally small can be filtered by the glomerulus with the filtrate. Large drug molecules such as heparin or those that are bound to plasma proteins cannot be filtered and are not readily eliminated. Some drugs can be eliminated by carrier proteins that enable secretion of the drug into the tubule lumen. There are specific carriers that eliminate basic (such as dopamine or histamine) or acidic drugs (such as penicillin or indomethacin). As is the case with other substances, drugs may be both filtered and reabsorbed passively along a concentration gradient. 25.10 The Urinary System and Homeostasis LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the role of the kidneys in vitamin D activation • Describe the role of the kidneys in regulating erythropoiesis • Provide specific examples to demonstrate how the urinary system responds to maintain homeostasis in the body • Explain how the urinary system relates to other body systems in maintaining homeostasis • Predict factors or situations affecting the urinary system that could disrupt homeostasis • Predict the types of problems that would occur in the body if the urinary system could not maintain homeostasis All systems of the body are interrelated. A change in one system may affect all other systems in the body, with mild to devastating effects. A failure of urinary continence can be embarrassing and inconvenient, but is not life threatening. The loss of other urinary functions may prove fatal. A failure to synthesize vitamin D is one such example. Vitamin D Synthesis In order for vitamin D to become active, it must undergo a hydroxylation reaction in the kidney, that is, an –OH group must be added to calcidiol to make calcitriol (1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol). Activated vitamin D is important for 1144 25 • The Urinary System absorption of Ca++in the digestive tract, its reabsorption in the kidney, and the maintenance of normal serum concentrations
