Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


This loss of conformation may be a consequence of the breaking of hydrogen bonds. Move the pH away from the optimum for a specific enzyme and you may severely hamper its function throughout the body, including hormone binding, central nervous system signaling, or myocardial contraction. Proper kidney function is essential for pH homeostasis. Everyday Connection Stem Cells and Repair of Kidney Damage Stem cells are unspecialized cells that can reproduce themselves via cell division, sometimes after years of inactivity. Under certain conditions, they may differentiate into tissue-specific or organ-specific cells with special functions. In some cases, stem cells may continually divide to produce a mature cell and to replace themselves. Stem cell therapy has an enormous potential to improve the quality of life or save the lives of people suffering from debilitating or life-threatening diseases. There have been several studies in animals, but since stem cell therapy is still in its infancy, there have been limited experiments in humans. 1146 25 • The Urinary System Acute kidney injury can be caused by a number of factors, including transplants and other surgeries. It affects 7–10 percent of all hospitalized patients, resulting in the deaths of 35–40 percent of inpatients. In limited studies using mesenchymal stem cells, there have been fewer instances of kidney damage after surgery, the length of hospital stays has been reduced, and there have been fewer readmissions after release. How do these stem cells work to protect or repair the kidney? Scientists are unsure at this point, but some evidence has shown that these stem cells release several growth factors in endocrine and paracrine ways. As further studies are conducted to assess the safety and effectiveness of stem cell therapy, we will move closer to a day when kidney injury is rare, and curative treatments are routine. Access for free at openstax.org 25 • Key Terms 1147 Key Terms anatomical sphincter smooth or skeletal muscle glomerulus to the capillary beds around the surrounding the lumen of a vessel or hollow organ convoluted tubules and loop of Henle; portion of the that can restrict flow when contracted portal system angiotensin I protein produced by the enzymatic endothelins group of vasoconstrictive, 21-amino acid action of renin on angiotensinogen; inactive peptides; produced by endothelial cells of the renal precursor of angiotensin II blood vessels, mesangial cells, and cells of the DCT angiotensin II protein produced by the enzymatic external urinary sphincter
