Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


kidney glomerulus filters blood mainly based on urine toward the bladder by way of peristaltic particle size to produce a filtrate lacking cells or large contractions. proteins. Most of the ions and molecules in the filtrate are needed by the body and must be reabsorbed 25.3Gross Anatomy of the Kidney farther down the nephron tubules, resulting in the As noted previously, the structure of the kidney is formation of urine. Urine characteristics change divided into two principle regions—the peripheral rim of depending on water intake, exercise, environmental cortex and the central medulla. The two kidneys temperature, and nutrient intake. Urinalysis analyzes receive about 25 percent of cardiac output. They are characteristics of the urine and is used to diagnose protected in the retroperitoneal space by the renal fat diseases. A minimum of 400 to 500 mL urine must be pad and overlying ribs and muscle. Ureters, blood produced daily to rid the body of wastes. Excessive vessels, lymph vessels, and nerves enter and leave at quantities of urine may indicate diabetes insipidus or the renal hilum. The renal arteries arise directly from diabetes mellitus. The pH range of urine is 4.5 to 8.0, the aorta, and the renal veins drain directly into the and is affected by diet. Osmolarity ranges from 50 to inferior vena cava. Kidney function is derived from the 1200 milliosmoles, and is a reflection of the amount of actions of about 1.3 million nephrons per kidney; these water being recovered or lost by renal nephrons. are the “functional units.” A capillary bed, the 25.2Gross Anatomy of Urine Transport glomerulus, filters blood and the filtrate is captured by Bowman’s capsule. A portal system is formed when the The urethra is the only urinary structure that differs blood flows through a second capillary bed significantly between males and females. This is due to surrounding the proximal and distal convoluted tubules the dual role of the male urethra in transporting both and the loop of Henle. Most water and solutes are urine and semen. The urethra arises from the trigone recovered by this second capillary bed. This filtrate is area at the base of the bladder. Urination is controlled processed and finally gathered by collecting ducts that by an involuntary internal sphincter of smooth muscle drain into the minor calyces, which merge to form and a voluntary external sphincter of skeletal muscle. major calyces; the filtrate then proceeds to
