Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


involuntary internal sphincter of smooth muscle drain into the minor calyces, which merge to form and a voluntary external sphincter of skeletal muscle. major calyces; the filtrate then proceeds to the renal The shorter female urethra contributes to the higher pelvis and finally the ureters. incidence of bladder infections in females. The male urethra receives secretions from the prostate gland, 25.4Microscopic Anatomy of the Kidney Cowper’s gland, and seminal vesicles as well as sperm. The functional unit of the kidney, the nephron, consists The bladder is largely retroperitoneal and can hold up of the renal corpuscle, PCT, loop of Henle, and DCT. to 500–600 mL urine. Micturition is the process of Cortical nephrons have short loops of Henle, whereas voiding the urine and involves both involuntary and juxtamedullary nephrons have long loops of Henle voluntary actions. Voluntary control of micturition extending into the medulla. About 15 percent of requires a mature and intact sacral micturition center. nephrons are juxtamedullary. The glomerulus is a It also requires an intact spinal cord. Loss of control of capillary bed that filters blood principally based on micturition is called incontinence and results in voiding particle size. The filtrate is captured by Bowman’s when the bladder contains about 250 mL urine. The capsule and directed to the PCT. A filtration membrane ureters are retroperitoneal and lead from the renal is formed by the fused basement membranes of the pelvis of the kidney to the trigone area at the base of 1150 25 • Chapter Review podocytes and the capillary endothelial cells that they whereas that of peritubular capillaries and vasa recta is embrace. Contractile mesangial cells further perform a due to osmolarity and concentration gradients. The role in regulating the rate at which the blood is filtered. PCT is the most metabolically active part of the Specialized cells in the JGA produce paracrine signals nephron and uses a wide array of protein to regulate blood flow and filtration rates of the micromachines to maintain homeostasis—symporters, glomerulus. Other JGA cells produce the enzyme renin, antiporters, and ATPase active transporters—in which plays a central role in blood pressure regulation. conjunction with diffusion, both simple and facilitated. The filtrate enters the PCT where absorption and Almost 100 percent of glucose, amino acids, and secretion of several substances occur. The descending vitamins are recovered in the PCT. Bicarbonate (HCO –) 3 and ascending limbs of the loop of Henle
