Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


of glucose, amino acids, and secretion of several substances occur. The descending vitamins are recovered in the PCT. Bicarbonate (HCO –) 3 and ascending limbs of the loop of Henle consist of is recovered using the same enzyme, carbonic thick and thin segments. Absorption and secretion anhydrase (CA), found in erythrocytes. The recovery of continue in the DCT but to a lesser extent than in the solutes creates an osmotic gradient to promote the PCT. Each collecting duct collects forming urine from recovery of water. The descending loop of the several nephrons and responds to the posterior juxtaglomerular nephrons reaches an osmolarity of up pituitary hormone ADH by inserting aquaporin water to 1200 mOsmol/kg, promoting the recovery of water. channels into the cell membrane to fine tune water The ascending loop is impervious to water but actively recovery. recovers Na+, reducing filtrate osmolarity to 50–100 mOsmol/kg. The descending and ascending loop and 25.5Physiology of Urine Formation vasa recta form a countercurrent multiplier system to The entire volume of the blood is filtered through the increase Na+concentration in the kidney medulla. The kidneys about 300 times per day, and 99 percent of the collecting ducts actively pump urea into the medulla, water filtered is recovered. The GFR is influenced by further contributing to the high osmotic environment. hydrostatic pressure and colloid osmotic pressure. The vasa recta recover the solute and water in the Under normal circumstances, hydrostatic pressure is medulla, returning them to the circulation. Nearly 90 significantly greater and filtration occurs. The percent of water is recovered before the forming urine hydrostatic pressure of the glomerulus depends on reaches the DCT, which will recover another 10 systemic blood pressure, autoregulatory mechanisms, percent. Calciumrecovery in the DCT is influenced by sympathetic nervous activity, and paracrine hormones. PTH and active vitamin D. In the collecting ducts, ADH The kidney can function normally under a wide range of stimulates aquaporin channel insertion to increase blood pressures due to the autoregulatory nature of water recovery and thereby regulate osmolarity of the smooth muscle. blood. Aldosterone stimulates Na+recovery by the collecting duct. 25.6Tubular Reabsorption 25.7Regulation of Renal Blood Flow The kidney regulates water recovery and blood pressure by producing the enzyme renin. It is renin that The kidneys are innervated by sympathetic nerves of starts a series of reactions, leading to the production of the autonomic nervous system. Sympathetic nervous the vasoconstrictor angiotensin II and
