Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


that The kidneys are innervated by sympathetic nerves of starts a series of reactions, leading to the production of the autonomic nervous system. Sympathetic nervous the vasoconstrictor angiotensin II and the salt- activity decreases blood flow to the kidney, making retaining steroid aldosterone. Water recovery is also more blood available to other areas of the body during powerfully and directly influenced by the hormone times of stress. The arteriolar myogenic mechanism ADH. Even so, it only influences the last 10 percent of maintains a steady blood flow by causing arteriolar water available for recovery after filtration at the smooth muscle to contract when blood pressure glomerulus, because 90 percent of water is recovered increases and causing it to relax when blood pressure before reaching the collecting ducts. Depending on the decreases. Tubuloglomerular feedback involves body’s fluid status at any given time, the collecting paracrine signaling at the JGA to cause ducts can recover none or almost all of the water vasoconstriction or vasodilation to maintain a steady reaching them. rate of blood flow. Mechanisms of solute recovery include active 25.8Endocrine Regulation of Kidney transport, simple diffusion, and facilitated diffusion. Function Most filtered substances are reabsorbed. Urea, NH , 3 Endocrine hormones act from a distance and paracrine creatinine, and some drugs are filtered or secreted as hormones act locally. The renal enzyme renin converts wastes. H+and HCO –are secreted or reabsorbed as 3 angiotensinogen into angiotensin I. The lung enzyme, needed to maintain acid–base balance. Movement of ACE, converts angiotensin I into active angiotensin II. water from the glomerulus is primarily due to pressure, Access for free at openstax.org 25 • Review Questions 1151 Angiotensin II is an active vasoconstrictor that water. Diuretics increase urine volume. Mechanisms for increases blood pressure. Angiotensin II also controlling Na+concentration in the blood include the stimulates aldosterone release from the adrenal renin–angiotensin–aldosterone system and ADH. When cortex, causing the collecting duct to retain Na+, which Na+is retained, K+is excreted; when Na+is lost, K+is promotes water retention and a longer-term rise in retained. When circulating Ca++decreases, PTH blood pressure. ADH promotes water recovery by the stimulates the reabsorption of Ca++and inhibits collecting ducts by stimulating the insertion of reabsorption of . pH is regulated through aquaporin water channels into cell membranes. buffers, expiration of CO , and excretion of acid or base 2 Endothelins are elevated in cases of diabetic kidney by the kidneys. The
