Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


failure. cells found in the urine? 42. Which vessels and what part of the nephron are 32. Both diabetes mellitus and diabetes insipidus involved in countercurrent multiplication? produce large urine volumes, but how would other 43. Give the approximate osmolarity of fluid in the characteristics of the urine differ between the two proximal convoluted tubule, deepest part of the diseases? loop of Henle, distal convoluted tubule, and the 33. Why are people with female reproductive systems collecting ducts. more likely to contract bladder infections than 44. Explain what happens to Na+concentration in the people with male reproductive systems? nephron when GFR increases. 34. Describe how forceful urination is accomplished. 45. If you want the kidney to excrete more Na+in the 35. What anatomical structures provide protection to urine, what do you want the blood flow to do? the kidney? 46. What organs produce which hormones or enzymes 36. How does the renal portal system differ from the in the renin–angiotensin system? hypothalamo–hypophyseal and digestive portal 47. PTH affects absorption and reabsorption of what? systems? 48. Why is ADH also called vasopressin? 37. Name the structures found in the renal hilum. 49. How can glucose be a diuretic? 38. Which structures make up the renal corpuscle? 50. How does lack of protein in the blood cause 39. What are the major structures comprising the edema? filtration membrane? 51. Which three electrolytes are most closely 40. Give the formula for net filtration pressure. regulated by the kidney? 1154 25 • Critical Thinking Questions Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 26 Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Balance Figure26.1 Venus Williams Perspiring on the Tennis CourtThe body has critically important mechanisms for balancing the intake and output of bodily fluids. An athlete must continuously replace the water and electrolytes lost in sweat. (credit: “Edwin Martinez1”/Wikimedia Commons) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Identify the body’s main fluid compartments • Define plasma osmolality and identify two ways in which plasma osmolality is maintained • Identify the six ions most important to the function of the body • Define buffer and discuss the role of buffers in the body • Explain why bicarbonate must be conserved rather than reabsorbed in the kidney • Identify the normal range of blood pH and name the conditions where one has a blood pH that is either too high or too low INTRODUCTION Homeostasis, or
