Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


kidney • Identify the normal range of blood pH and name the conditions where one has a blood pH that is either too high or too low INTRODUCTION Homeostasis, or the maintenance of constant conditions in the body, is a fundamental property of all living things. In the human body, the substances that participate in chemical reactions must remain within narrows ranges of concentration. Too much or too little of a single substance can disrupt your bodily functions. Because metabolism relies on reactions that are all interconnected, any disruption might affect multiple organs or even organ systems. Water is the most ubiquitous substance in the chemical reactions of life. The interactions of various aqueous solutions—solutions in which water is the solvent—are continuously monitored and adjusted by a large suite of interconnected feedback systems in your body. Understanding the ways in which the body maintains these critical balances is key to understanding good health. 26.1 Body Fluids and Fluid Compartments LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Explain the importance of water in the body • Contrast the composition of the intracellular fluid with that of the extracellular fluid • Explain the importance of protein channels in the movement of solutes • Identify the causes and symptoms of edema 1156 26 • Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Balance The chemical reactions of life take place in aqueous solutions. The dissolved substances in a solution are called solutes. In the human body, solutes vary in different parts of the body, but may include proteins—including those that transport lipids, carbohydrates, and, very importantly, electrolytes. Often in medicine, a mineral dissociated from a salt that carries an electrical charge (an ion) is called an electrolyte. For instance, sodium ions (Na+) and chloride ions (Cl-) are often referred to as electrolytes. In the body, water moves through semi-permeable membranes of cells and from one compartment of the body to another by a process called osmosis. Osmosis is basically the diffusion of water from regions of higher concentration of water to regions of lower concentration of water, along an osmotic gradient across a semi-permeable membrane. As a result, water will move into and out of cells and tissues, depending on the relative concentrations of the water and solutes found there. An appropriate balance of solutes inside and outside of cells must be maintained to ensure normal function. Body Water Content
