Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


in fluid pH by dampening the change in hydrogen ion concentrations in the case of excess acid or base. Most commonly, the substance that absorbs the ions is either a weak acid, which takes up hydroxyl ions, or a weak base, which takes up hydrogen ions. 1172 26 • Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Balance FIGURE26.15 The pH Scale This chart shows where many common substances fall on the pH scale. Buffer Systems in the Body The buffer systems in the human body are extremely efficient, and different systems work at different rates. It takes only seconds for the chemical buffers in the blood to make adjustments to pH. The respiratory tract can adjust the blood pH upward in minutes by exhaling CO from the body. The renal system can also adjust blood pH through the 2 excretion of hydrogen ions (H+) and the conservation of bicarbonate, but this process takes hours to days to have an effect. The buffer systems functioning in blood plasma include plasma proteins, phosphate, and bicarbonate and carbonic acid buffers. The kidneys help control acid-base balance by excreting hydrogen ions and generating bicarbonate that helps maintain blood plasma pH within a normal range. Protein buffer systems work predominantly inside cells. Protein Buffers in Blood Plasma and Cells Nearly all proteins can function as buffers. Proteins are made up of amino acids, which contain positively charged amino groups and negatively charged carboxyl groups. The charged regions of these molecules can bind hydrogen and hydroxyl ions, and thus function as buffers. Buffering by proteins accounts for two-thirds of the buffering power of the blood and most of the buffering within cells. Hemoglobin as a Buffer Hemoglobin is the principal protein inside of red blood cells and accounts for one-third of the mass of the cell. During the conversion of CO into bicarbonate, hydrogen ions liberated in the reaction are buffered by hemoglobin, 2 Access for free at openstax.org 26.4 • Acid-Base Balance 1173 which is reduced by the dissociation of oxygen. This buffering helps maintain normal pH. The process is reversed in the pulmonary capillaries to re-form CO , which then can diffuse into the air sacs to be exhaled into the atmosphere. 2 This process is discussed in detail in the chapter on the respiratory system. Phosphate Buffer Phosphates are found in the blood in two forms: sodium dihydrogen phosphate ( ), which is a weak acid,
