Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


in detail in the chapter on the respiratory system. Phosphate Buffer Phosphates are found in the blood in two forms: sodium dihydrogen phosphate ( ), which is a weak acid, and sodium monohydrogen phosphate ( ), which is a weak base. When comes into contact with a strong acid, such as HCl, the base picks up a second hydrogen ion to form the weak acid and sodium chloride, NaCl. When (the weak acid) comes into contact with a strong base, such as sodium hydroxide (NaOH), the weak acid reverts back to the weak base and produces water. Acids and bases are still present, but they hold onto the ions. Bicarbonate-Carbonic Acid Buffer The bicarbonate-carbonic acid buffer works in a fashion similar to phosphate buffers. The bicarbonate is regulated in the blood by sodium, as are the phosphate ions. When sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO ), comes into contact with a 3 strong acid, such as HCl, carbonic acid (H CO ), which is a weak acid, and NaCl are formed. When carbonic acid 2 3 comes into contact with a strong base, such as NaOH, bicarbonate and water are formed. As with the phosphate buffer, a weak acid or weak base captures the free ions, and a significant change in pH is prevented. Bicarbonate ions and carbonic acid are present in the blood in a 20:1 ratio if the blood pH is within the normal range. With 20 times more bicarbonate than carbonic acid, this capture system is most efficient at buffering changes that would make the blood more acidic. This is useful because most of the body’s metabolic wastes, such as lactic acid and ketone bodies, are acids. Carbonic acid levels in the blood are controlled by the expiration of CO 2 through the lungs. In red blood cells, carbonic anhydrase forces the dissociation of the acid, rendering the blood less acidic. Because of this acid dissociation, CO is exhaled (see equations above). The level of bicarbonate in the 2 blood is controlled through the renal system, where bicarbonate ions in the renal filtrate are conserved and passed back into the blood. However, the bicarbonate buffer is the primary buffering system of the IF surrounding the cells in tissues throughout the body. Respiratory Regulation of Acid-Base Balance The respiratory system contributes to the balance of acids and bases in the body by regulating the blood levels of carbonic acid (Figure 26.16).
