Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


body. Respiratory Regulation of Acid-Base Balance The respiratory system contributes to the balance of acids and bases in the body by regulating the blood levels of carbonic acid (Figure 26.16). CO in the blood readily reacts with water to form carbonic acid, and the levels of CO 2 2 and carbonic acid in the blood are in equilibrium. When the CO level in the blood rises (as it does when you hold 2 your breath), the excess CO reacts with water to form additional carbonic acid, lowering blood pH. Increasing the 2 rate and/or depth of respiration (which you might feel the “urge” to do after holding your breath) allows you to exhale more CO . The loss of CO from the body reduces blood levels of carbonic acid and thereby adjusts the pH 2 2 upward, toward normal levels. As you might have surmised, this process also works in the opposite direction. Excessive deep and rapid breathing (as in hyperventilation) rids the blood of CO and reduces the level of carbonic 2 acid, making the blood too alkaline. This brief alkalosis can be remedied by rebreathing air that has been exhaled into a paper bag. Rebreathing exhaled air will rapidly bring blood pH down toward normal. 1174 26 • Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Balance FIGURE26.16 Respiratory Regulation of Blood pH The respiratory system can reduce blood pH by removing CO2from the blood. The chemical reactions that regulate the levels of CO and carbonic acid occur in the lungs when blood travels 2 through the lung’s pulmonary capillaries. Minor adjustments in breathing are usually sufficient to adjust the pH of the blood by changing how much CO is exhaled. In fact, doubling the respiratory rate for less than 1 minute, 2 removing “extra” CO , would increase the blood pH by 0.2. This situation is common if you are exercising 2 strenuously over a period of time. To keep up the necessary energy production, you would produce excess CO (and 2 lactic acid if exercising beyond your aerobic threshold). In order to balance the increased acid production, the respiration rate goes up to remove the CO . This helps to keep you from developing acidosis. 2 The body regulates the respiratory rate by the use of chemoreceptors, which primarily use CO as a signal. 2 Peripheral blood sensors are found in the walls of the aorta and carotid arteries. These
