Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


respiratory rate by the use of chemoreceptors, which primarily use CO as a signal. 2 Peripheral blood sensors are found in the walls of the aorta and carotid arteries. These sensors signal the brain to provide immediate adjustments to the respiratory rate if CO levels rise or fall. Yet other sensors are found in the 2 brain itself. Changes in the pH of CSF affect the respiratory center in the medulla oblongata, which can directly modulate breathing rate to bring the pH back into the normal range. Hypercapnia, or abnormally elevated blood levels of CO , occurs in any situation that impairs respiratory functions, 2 including pneumonia and congestive heart failure. Reduced breathing (hypoventilation) due to drugs such as morphine, barbiturates, or ethanol (or even just holding one’s breath) can also result in hypercapnia.Hypocapnia, or abnormally low blood levels of CO , occurs with any cause of hyperventilation that drives off the CO , such as 2 2 salicylate toxicity, elevated room temperatures, fever, or hysteria. Renal Regulation of Acid-Base Balance The renal regulation of the body’s acid-base balance addresses the metabolic component of the buffering system. Access for free at openstax.org 26.4 • Acid-Base Balance 1175 Whereas the respiratory system (together with breathing centers in the brain) controls the blood levels of carbonic acid by controlling the exhalation of CO , the renal system controls the blood levels of bicarbonate. A decrease of 2 blood bicarbonate can result from the inhibition of carbonic anhydrase by certain diuretics or from excessive bicarbonate loss due to diarrhea. Blood bicarbonate levels are also typically lower in people who have Addison’s disease (chronic adrenal insufficiency), in which aldosterone levels are reduced, and in people who have renal damage, such as chronic nephritis. Finally, low bicarbonate blood levels can result from elevated levels of ketones (common in unmanaged diabetes mellitus), which bind bicarbonate in the filtrate and prevent its conservation. Bicarbonate ions, HCO -, found in the filtrate, are essential to the bicarbonate buffer system, yet the cells of the 3 tubule are not permeable to bicarbonate ions. The steps involved in supplying bicarbonate ions to the system are seen inFigure 26.17and are summarized below: • Step 1: Sodium ions are reabsorbed from the filtrate in exchange for H+by an antiport mechanism in the apical membranes of cells lining the renal tubule. • Step 2: The cells produce bicarbonate ions that can be shunted
