Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


filtrate in exchange for H+by an antiport mechanism in the apical membranes of cells lining the renal tubule. • Step 2: The cells produce bicarbonate ions that can be shunted to peritubular capillaries. • Step 3: When CO is available, the reaction is driven to the formation of carbonic acid, which dissociates to form 2 a bicarbonate ion and a hydrogen ion. • Step 4: The bicarbonate ion passes into the peritubular capillaries and returns to the blood. The hydrogen ion is secreted into the filtrate, where it can become part of new water molecules and be reabsorbed as such, or removed in the urine. FIGURE26.17 Conservation of Bicarbonate in the Kidney Tubular cells are not permeable to bicarbonate; thus, bicarbonate is conserved rather than reabsorbed. Steps 1 and 2 of bicarbonate conservation are indicated. It is also possible that salts in the filtrate, such as sulfates, phosphates, or ammonia, will capture hydrogen ions. If this occurs, the hydrogen ions will not be available to combine with bicarbonate ions and produce CO . In such 2 cases, bicarbonate ions are not conserved from the filtrate to the blood, which will also contribute to a pH imbalance and acidosis. The hydrogen ions also compete with potassium to exchange with sodium in the renal tubules. If more potassium is present than normal, potassium, rather than the hydrogen ions, will be exchanged, and increased potassium enters the filtrate. When this occurs, fewer hydrogen ions in the filtrate participate in the conversion of bicarbonate into CO and less bicarbonate is conserved. If there is less potassium, more hydrogen ions enter the filtrate to be 2 exchanged with sodium and more bicarbonate is conserved. Chloride ions are important in neutralizing positive ion charges in the body. If chloride is lost, the body uses bicarbonate ions in place of the lost chloride ions. Thus, lost chloride results in an increased reabsorption of 1176 26 • Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Balance bicarbonate by the renal system. Disorders of the... Acid-Base Balance: Ketoacidosis Diabetic acidosis, or ketoacidosis, occurs most frequently in people with poorly controlled diabetes mellitus. When certain tissues in the body cannot get adequate amounts of glucose, they depend on the breakdown of fatty acids for energy. When acetyl groups break off the fatty acid chains, the acetyl groups then non- enzymatically combine to form ketone bodies, acetoacetic acid, beta-hydroxybutyric acid, and acetone, all of which
