Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the extremities, muscle twitching and spasm, and nausea and vomiting. Both acidosis and alkalosis can be caused by either metabolic or respiratory disorders. As discussed earlier in this chapter, the concentration of carbonic acid in the blood is dependent on the level of CO 2 in the body and the amount of CO gas exhaled through the lungs. Thus, the respiratory contribution to acid-base 2 balance is usually discussed in terms of CO (rather than of carbonic acid). Remember that a molecule of carbonic 2 acid is lost for every molecule of CO exhaled, and a molecule of carbonic acid is formed for every molecule of CO 2 2 retained. Access for free at openstax.org 26.5 • Disorders of Acid-Base Balance 1177 FIGURE26.18 Symptoms of Acidosis and Alkalosis Symptoms of acidosis affect several organ systems. Both acidosis and alkalosis can be diagnosed using a blood test. Metabolic Acidosis: Primary Bicarbonate Deficiency Metabolic acidosisoccurs when the blood is too acidic (pH below 7.35) due to too little bicarbonate, a condition called primary bicarbonate deficiency. At the normal pH of 7.40, the ratio of bicarbonate to carbonic acid buffer is 20:1. If a person’s blood pH drops below 7.35, then the person is in metabolic acidosis. The most common cause of metabolic acidosis is the presence of organic acids or excessive ketone bodies in the blood.Table 26.2lists some other causes of metabolic acidosis. Common Causes of Metabolic Acidosis and Blood Metabolites Cause Metabolite Diarrhea Bicarbonate Uremia Phosphoric, sulfuric, and lactic acids Diabetic ketoacidosis Increased ketone bodies Strenuous exercise Lactic acid Methanol Formic acid* Paraldehyde β-Hydroxybutyric acid* Isopropanol Propionic acid* Ethylene glycol Glycolic acid, and some oxalic and formic acids* Salicylate/aspirin Sulfasalicylic acid (SSA)* TABLE26.2*Acid metabolites from ingested chemical. The first three of the eight causes of metabolic acidosis listed are medical (or unusual physiological) conditions. 1178 26 • Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Balance Strenuous exercise can cause temporary metabolic acidosis due to the production of lactic acid. The last five causes result from the ingestion of specific substances. The active form of aspirin is its metabolite, sulfasalicylic acid. An overdose of aspirin causes acidosis due to the acidity of this metabolite. Metabolic acidosis can also result from uremia, which is the retention of urea and uric acid. Metabolic acidosis can also arise from diabetic ketoacidosis, wherein an excess of ketone bodies are present in the blood. Other causes of metabolic acidosis are
