Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


of urea and uric acid. Metabolic acidosis can also arise from diabetic ketoacidosis, wherein an excess of ketone bodies are present in the blood. Other causes of metabolic acidosis are a decrease in the excretion of hydrogen ions, which inhibits the conservation of bicarbonate ions, and excessive loss of bicarbonate ions through the gastrointestinal tract due to diarrhea. Metabolic Alkalosis: Primary Bicarbonate Excess Metabolic alkalosisis the opposite of metabolic acidosis. It occurs when the blood is too alkaline (pH above 7.45) due to too much bicarbonate (called primary bicarbonate excess). A transient excess of bicarbonate in the blood can follow ingestion of excessive amounts of bicarbonate, citrate, or antacids for conditions such as stomach acid reflux—known as heartburn. Cushing’s disease, which is the chronic hypersecretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) by the anterior pituitary gland, can cause chronic metabolic alkalosis. The oversecretion of ACTH results in elevated aldosterone levels and an increased loss of potassium by urinary excretion. Other causes of metabolic alkalosis include the loss of hydrochloric acid from the stomach through vomiting, potassium depletion due to the use of diuretics for hypertension, and the excessive use of laxatives. Respiratory Acidosis: Primary Carbonic Acid/CO Excess 2 Respiratory acidosisoccurs when the blood is overly acidic due to an excess of carbonic acid, resulting from too much CO in the blood. Respiratory acidosis can result from anything that interferes with respiration, such as 2 pneumonia, emphysema, or congestive heart failure. Respiratory Alkalosis: Primary Carbonic Acid/CO Deficiency 2 Respiratory alkalosisoccurs when the blood is overly alkaline due to a deficiency in carbonic acid and CO levels in 2 the blood. This condition usually occurs when too much CO is exhaled from the lungs, as occurs in hyperventilation, 2 which is breathing that is deeper or more frequent than normal. An elevated respiratory rate leading to hyperventilation can be due to extreme emotional upset or fear, fever, infections, hypoxia, or abnormally high levels of catecholamines, such as epinephrine and norepinephrine. Surprisingly, aspirin overdose—salicylate toxicity—can result in respiratory alkalosis as the body tries to compensate for initial acidosis. INTERACTIVE LINK Watch thisvideo( see a demonstration of the effect altitude has on blood pH. What effect does high altitude have on blood pH, and why? Compensation Mechanisms Various compensatory mechanisms exist to maintain blood pH within a narrow range, including buffers, respiration, and renal mechanisms. Although compensatory mechanisms usually work very well, when one of these
