Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Mechanisms Various compensatory mechanisms exist to maintain blood pH within a narrow range, including buffers, respiration, and renal mechanisms. Although compensatory mechanisms usually work very well, when one of these mechanisms is not working properly (like kidney failure or respiratory disease), they have their limits. If the pH and bicarbonate to carbonic acid ratio are changed too drastically, the body may not be able to compensate. Moreover, extreme changes in pH can denature proteins. Extensive damage to proteins in this way can result in disruption of normal metabolic processes, serious tissue damage, and ultimately death. Respiratory Compensation Respiratory compensation for metabolic acidosis increases the respiratory rate to drive off CO and readjust the 2 bicarbonate to carbonic acid ratio to the 20:1 level. This adjustment can occur within minutes. Respiratory compensation for metabolic alkalosis is not as adept as its compensation for acidosis. The normal response of the respiratory system to elevated pH is to increase the amount of CO in the blood by decreasing the respiratory rate to 2 conserve CO . There is a limit to the decrease in respiration, however, that the body can tolerate. Hence, the 2 respiratory route is less efficient at compensating for metabolic alkalosis than for acidosis. Access for free at openstax.org 26.5 • Disorders of Acid-Base Balance 1179 Metabolic Compensation Metabolic and renal compensation for respiratory diseases that can create acidosis revolves around the conservation of bicarbonate ions. In cases of respiratory acidosis, the kidney increases the conservation of bicarbonate and secretion of H+through the exchange mechanism discussed earlier. These processes increase the concentration of bicarbonate in the blood, reestablishing the proper relative concentrations of bicarbonate and carbonic acid. In cases of respiratory alkalosis, the kidneys decrease the production of bicarbonate and reabsorb H+ from the tubular fluid. These processes can be limited by the exchange of potassium by the renal cells, which use a K+-H+exchange mechanism (antiporter). Diagnosing Acidosis and Alkalosis Lab tests for pH, CO partial pressure (PCO ),and HCO –can identify acidosis and alkalosis, indicating whether the 2 2 3 imbalance is respiratory or metabolic, and the extent to which compensatory mechanisms are working. The blood pH value, as shown inTable 26.3, indicates whether the blood is in acidosis, the normal range, or alkalosis. The PCO and total HCO –values aid in determining whether the condition is metabolic or respiratory, and whether the 2 3 patient has been able
