Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the normal range, or alkalosis. The PCO and total HCO –values aid in determining whether the condition is metabolic or respiratory, and whether the 2 3 patient has been able to compensate for the problem.Table 26.3lists the conditions and laboratory results that can be used to classify these conditions. Metabolic acid-base imbalances typically result from kidney disease, and the respiratory system usually responds to compensate. Types of Acidosis and Alkalosis pH PCO Total HCO – 2 3 Metabolic acidosis ↓ N, then ↓ ↓ Respiratory acidosis ↓ ↑ N, then ↑ Metabolic alkalosis ↑ N, then↑ ↑ Respiratory alkalosis ↑ ↓ N, then ↓ TABLE26.3Reference values (arterial): pH: 7.35–7.45; pCO : male: 35–48 mm Hg, female: 32–45 mm Hg; total 2 venous bicarbonate: 22–29 mM. N denotes normal; ↑ denotes a rising or increased value; and ↓ denotes a falling or decreased value. Metabolic acidosis is problematic, as lower-than-normal amounts of bicarbonate are present in the blood. The PCO 2 would be normal at first, but if compensation has occurred, it would decrease as the body reestablishes the proper ratio of bicarbonate and carbonic acid/CO . 2 Respiratory acidosis is problematic, as excess CO is present in the blood. Bicarbonate levels would be normal at 2 first, but if compensation has occurred, they would increase in an attempt to reestablish the proper ratio of bicarbonate and carbonic acid/CO . 2 Alkalosis is characterized by a higher-than-normal pH. Metabolic alkalosis is problematic, as elevated pH and excess bicarbonate are present. The PCO would again be normal at first, but if compensation has occurred, it would 2 increase as the body attempts to reestablish the proper ratios of bicarbonate and carbonic acid/CO . 2 Respiratory alkalosis is problematic, as CO deficiency is present in the bloodstream. The bicarbonate concentration 2 would be normal at first. When renal compensation occurs, however, the bicarbonate concentration in blood decreases as the kidneys attempt to reestablish the proper ratios of bicarbonate and carbonic acid/CO by 2 eliminating more bicarbonate to bring the pH into the physiological range. 1180 26 • Key Terms Key Terms antidiuretic hormone (ADH) also known as hyperphosphatemia abnormally increased blood vasopressin, a hormone that increases the volume phosphate levels of water reabsorbed from the collecting tubules of hypocalcemia abnormally low blood levels of calcium the kidney hypocapnia abnormally low blood levels of CO 2 dehydration state of containing insufficient water in hypochloremia
