Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


respiration during cellular concentrated due to water loss, cell functions metabolism. Urine produced by the kidneys accounts deteriorate. If the cytosol becomes too dilute due to for the largest amount of water leaving the body. The water intake by cells, cell membranes can be damaged, kidneys can adjust the concentration of the urine to and the cell can burst. Hydrostatic pressure is the force reflect the body’s water needs, conserving water if the exerted by a fluid against a wall and causes movement body is dehydrated or making urine more dilute to of fluid between compartments. Fluid can also move expel excess water when necessary. ADH is a hormone between compartments along an osmotic gradient. that helps the body to retain water by increasing water Active transport processes require ATP to move some reabsorption by the kidneys. solutes against their concentration gradients between 26.3Electrolyte Balance compartments. Passive transport of a molecule or ion depends on its ability to pass easily through the Electrolytes serve various purposes, such as helping to membrane, as well as the existence of a high to low conduct electrical impulses along cell membranes in concentration gradient. neurons and muscles, stabilizing enzyme structures, and releasing hormones from endocrine glands. The ions in plasma also contribute to the osmotic balance Access for free at openstax.org 26 • Interactive Link Questions 1181 that controls the movement of water between cells and (H+). Several substances serve as buffers in the body, their environment. Imbalances of these ions can result including cell and plasma proteins, hemoglobin, in various problems in the body, and their phosphates, bicarbonate ions, and carbonic acid. The concentrations are tightly regulated. Aldosterone and bicarbonate buffer is the primary buffering system of angiotensin II control the exchange of sodium and the IF surrounding the cells in tissues throughout the potassium between the renal filtrate and the renal body. The respiratory and renal systems also play collecting tubule. Calcium and phosphate are regulated major roles in acid-base homeostasis by removing CO 2 by PTH, calcitriol, and calcitonin. and hydrogen ions, respectively, from the body. 26.4Acid-Base Balance 26.5Disorders of Acid-Base Balance A variety of buffering systems exist in the body that Acidosis and alkalosis describe conditions in which a helps maintain the pH of the blood and other fluids person's blood is, respectively, too acidic (pH below within a narrow range—between pH 7.35 and 7.45. A 7.35) and too alkaline
