Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


The ion with the lowest blood level is ________. a. sodium b. potassium c. chloride d. bicarbonate Access for free at openstax.org 26 • Critical Thinking Questions 1183 27. Which of the following is a cause of metabolic 29. At a pH of 7.40, the carbonic acid ratio is acidosis? ________. a. excessive HCl loss a. 35:1 b. increased aldosterone b. 4:1 c. diarrhea c. 20:1 d. prolonged use of diuretics d. 3:1 28. Which of the following is a cause of respiratory 30. Which of the following is characterized as acidosis? metabolic alkalosis? a. emphysema a. increased pH, decreased pCO , decreased 2 b. low blood K+ HCO – 3 c. increased aldosterone b. increased pH, increased pCO , increased 2 d. increased blood ketones HCO – 3 c. decreased pH, decreased pCO , decreased 2 HCO – 3 d. decreased pH, increased pCO , increased 2 HCO – 3 Critical Thinking Questions 31. Plasma contains more sodium than chloride. How 38. Describe the control of blood carbonic acid levels can this be if individual ions of sodium and through the respiratory system. chloride exactly balance each other out, and 39. Case Study: Brooks is a 64-year-old admitted to plasma is electrically neutral? the emergency room for asthma. Their laboratory 32. How is fluid moved from compartment to results are as follows: pH 7.31, pCO higher than 2 compartment? normal, and total HCO –also higher than normal. 3 33. Describe the effect of ADH on renal collecting Classify their acid-base balance as acidosis or tubules. alkalosis, and as metabolic or respiratory. Is there 34. Why is it important for the amount of water intake evidence of compensation? Propose the to equal the amount of water output? mechanism by which asthma contributed to the 35. Explain how the CO generated by cells and lab results seen. 2 exhaled in the lungs is carried as bicarbonate in 40. Case Study: Kim is a 38-year-old woman admitted the blood. to the hospital for bulimia. Her laboratory results 36. How can one have an imbalance in a substance, are as follows: pH 7.48, pCO in the normal range, 2 but not actually have elevated or deficient levels and total HCO –higher than normal. Classify her 3 of that substance in the body? acid-base balance as acidosis or alkalosis, and as 37. Describe the conservation of bicarbonate ions in metabolic or respiratory. Is there
