Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Classify her 3 of that substance in the body? acid-base balance as acidosis or alkalosis, and as 37. Describe the conservation of bicarbonate ions in metabolic or respiratory. Is there evidence of the renal system. compensation? Propose the mechanism by which bulimia contributed to the lab results seen. 1184 26 • Critical Thinking Questions Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 27 The Reproductive System Figure27.1 OvulationFollowing a surge of luteinizing hormone (LH), an oocyte (immature egg cell) will be released into the uterine tube, where it will then be available to be fertilized by sperm. Ovulation marks the end of the follicular phase of the ovarian cycle and the start of the luteal phase. CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • Describe the anatomy of the reproductive systems, including their accessory structures • Explain the role of hypothalamic and pituitary hormones in reproductive function • Trace the path of a sperm cell from its initial production through fertilization of an oocyte • Explain the events in the ovary prior to ovulation • Describe the development and maturation of the sex organs and the emergence of secondary sex characteristics during puberty INTRODUCTION Small, uncoordinated, and slick with amniotic fluid, a newborn encounters the world outside of her the womb. We do not often consider that a child’s birth is proof of the healthy functioning of reproductive systems. Moreover, endocrine systems had to secrete the appropriate regulating hormones to induce the production and release of unique male and female gametes, reproductive cells containing genetic material (one set of 23 chromosomes). Reproductive behavior or medical innovation had to facilitate the transfer of male gametes—the sperm—to the female gamete, an oocyte (egg). Finally, combination of the gametes (fertilization) had to occur, followed by implantation and development. In this chapter, you will explore the reproductive systems, whose functioning can culminate in the powerful sound of a newborn’s first cry. 1186 27 • The Reproductive System 27.1 Anatomy and Physiology of the Testicular Reproductive System LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the structure and function of the organs of the testicular reproductive system • Describe the structure and function of the sperm cell • Explain the events during spermatogenesis that produce haploid sperm from diploid cells • Identify the importance of testosterone in reproductive function People often use the words "female" and
