Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


cell • Explain the events during spermatogenesis that produce haploid sperm from diploid cells • Identify the importance of testosterone in reproductive function People often use the words "female" and "male" to describe two different concepts: our sense of gender identity, and our biological sex as determined by our X/Y chromosomes, hormones, sex organs, and other physical characteristics. For some people, gender identity is different from biological sex or their sex assigned at birth. In this chapter and the next chapter, "female" and "male" refer to sex only, and the typical reproductive anatomy of XX and XY individuals is discussed. Unique for its role in reproduction, agameteis a specialized sex cell, which in humans carries 23 chromosomes—one half the number in body cells. In almost all sexually reproducing species, these two haploid cells differ in size; the smaller gamete is called the male gamete and the larger one is called the female gamete. At fertilization, the chromosomes in one male gamete, called asperm(or spermatozoon), combine with the chromosomes in one female gamete, called an oocyte. The function of the male, or testicular, reproductive system (Figure 27.2) is to produce sperm and transfer them to the female reproductive tract. The paired testes are a crucial component in this process, as they produce both sperm and androgens, the hormones that support male reproductive physiology. In male humans, the most important androgen is testosterone. For people with a penis, several accessory organs and ducts aid the process of sperm maturation and transport the sperm and other seminal components to the penis, which may deliver sperm to the female reproductive tract. In this section, we examine each of these different structures, and discuss the process of sperm production and transport. Access for free at openstax.org 27.1 • Anatomy and Physiology of the Testicular Reproductive System 1187 FIGURE27.2 Testicular Reproductive System The structures of the testicular reproductive system include the testes, the epididymides, the penis, and the ducts and glands that produce and carry semen. Sperm exit the scrotum through the ductus deferens, which is bundled in the spermatic cord. The seminal vesicles and prostate gland add fluids to the sperm to create semen. Scrotum The testes are located in a skin-covered, highly pigmented, muscular sack called thescrotumthat extends from the body behind the penis (seeFigure 27.2). This location is important in sperm production, which occurs within the testes, and proceeds more efficiently when the
