Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the vagina, and helps to clean urine residues from the penile urethra. The fluid from these accessory glands is released after the male becomes sexually aroused, and shortly before the Access for free at openstax.org 27.1 • Anatomy and Physiology of the Testicular Reproductive System 1193 release of the semen. It is therefore sometimes called pre-ejaculate. It is important to note that, in addition to the lubricating proteins, it is possible for bulbourethral fluid to pick up sperm already present in the urethra, and therefore it may be able to cause pregnancy. INTERACTIVE LINK Interactive Link Feature Watch thisvideo( explore the structures of the male reproductive system and the path of sperm, which starts in the testes and ends as the sperm leave the penis through the urethra. Where are sperm deposited after they leave the ejaculatory duct? The Penis Thepenisis the male organ of copulation (sexual intercourse). It is flaccid for non-sexual actions, such as urination, and turgid and rod-like with sexual arousal. When erect, the stiffness of the organ allows it to penetrate into the vagina and deposit semen into the female reproductive tract. FIGURE27.7 Cross-Sectional Anatomy of the Penis Three columns of erectile tissue make up most of the volume of the penis. The shaft of the penis surrounds the urethra (Figure 27.7). The shaft is composed of three column-like chambers of erectile tissue that span the length of the shaft. Each of the two larger lateral chambers is called acorpus cavernosum(plural = corpora cavernosa). Together, these make up the bulk of the penis. Thecorpus spongiosum, which can be felt as a raised ridge on the erect penis, is a smaller chamber that surrounds the spongy, or penile, urethra. The end of the penis, called theglans penis, has a high concentration of nerve endings, resulting in very sensitive skin that influences the likelihood of ejaculation (seeFigure 27.2). The skin from the shaft extends down 1194 27 • The Reproductive System over the glans and forms a collar called theprepuce(or foreskin). The foreskin also contains a dense concentration of nerve endings, and both lubricate and protect the sensitive skin of the glans penis. A surgical procedure called circumcision, often performed for religious or social reasons, removes the prepuce, typically within days of birth. Both sexual arousal and REM sleep (during which dreaming occurs) can induce an erection. Penile erections are the result of vasocongestion, or engorgement of the
