Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


ovary to fertilization The female, or ovarian, reproductive system functions to produce gametes and reproductive hormones, just like the male reproductive system; however, it also has the additional task of supporting the developing fetus and delivering it to the outside world. Unlike its male counterpart, the female reproductive system is located primarily inside the pelvic cavity (Figure 27.9). Recall that the ovaries are the female gonads. The gamete they produce is called an oocyte. We’ll discuss the production of oocytes in detail shortly. First, let’s look at some of the structures of the female reproductive system. Access for free at openstax.org 27.2 • Anatomy and Physiology of the Ovarian Reproductive System 1197 FIGURE27.9 Female Reproductive System The major organs of the female reproductive system are located inside the pelvic cavity. External Female Genitals The external female reproductive structures are referred to collectively as thevulva(Figure 27.10). Themons pubis is a pad of fat that is located at the anterior, over the pubic bone. After puberty, it becomes covered in pubic hair. The labia majora(labia = “lips”; majora = “larger”) are folds of hair-covered skin that begin just posterior to the mons pubis. The thinner and more pigmentedlabia minora(labia = “lips”; minora = “smaller”) extend medial to the labia majora. Although they naturally vary in shape and size from person to person, the labia minora serve to protect the urethra and the entrance to the reproductive tract. The superior, anterior portions of the labia minora come together to encircle theclitoris(or glans clitoris), an organ that originates from the same cells as the glans penis and has abundant nerves that make it important in sexual sensation and orgasm. Thehymenis a thin membrane that sometimes partially covers the entrance to the vagina. An intact hymen cannot be used as an indication of “virginity”; even at birth, this is only a partial membrane, as menstrual fluid and other secretions must be able to exit the body, regardless of penile–vaginal intercourse. The vaginal opening is located between the opening of the urethra and the anus. It is flanked by outlets to the Bartholin’s glands(or greater vestibular glands). 1198 27 • The Reproductive System FIGURE27.10 The Vulva The external female genitalia are referred to collectively as the vulva. Vagina Thevagina, shown at the bottom ofFigure 27.9andFigure 27.10, is a muscular canal (approximately 10 cm long) that serves as the entrance to the reproductive tract. It also serves
