Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the ovary itself is attached to the uterus via the ovarian ligament. The ovary comprises an outer covering of cuboidal epithelium called the ovarian surface epithelium that is superficial to a dense connective tissue covering called the tunica albuginea. Beneath the tunica albuginea is the cortex, or outer portion, of the organ. The cortex is composed of a tissue framework called the ovarian stroma that forms the bulk of the adult ovary. Oocytes develop within the outer layer of this stroma, each surrounded by Access for free at openstax.org 27.2 • Anatomy and Physiology of the Ovarian Reproductive System 1199 supporting cells. This grouping of an oocyte and its supporting cells is called afollicle. The growth and development of ovarian follicles will be described shortly. Beneath the cortex lies the inner ovarian medulla, the site of blood vessels, lymph vessels, and the nerves of the ovary. You will learn more about the overall anatomy of the female reproductive system at the end of this section. The Ovarian Cycle Theovarian cycleis a set of predictable changes in oocytes and ovarian follicles. During the reproductive years, it is a roughly 28-day cycle that can be correlated with, but is not the same as, the menstrual cycle (discussed shortly). The cycle includes two interrelated processes: oogenesis (the production of gametes) and folliculogenesis (the growth and development of ovarian follicles). Oogenesis Gametogenesis in females is calledoogenesis. The process begins with the ovarian stem cells, oroogonia(Figure 27.11). Oogonia are formed during fetal development, and divide via mitosis, much like spermatogonia in the testis. Unlike spermatogonia, however, oogonia form primary oocytes in the fetal ovary prior to birth. These primary oocytes are then arrested in this stage of meiosis I, only to resume it years later, beginning at puberty and continuing until the person is near menopause (the cessation of a female's reproductive functions). The number of primary oocytes present in the ovaries declines from one to two million in an infant, to approximately 400,000 at puberty, to zero by the end of menopause. The initiation ofovulation—the release of an oocyte from the ovary—marks the transition from puberty into reproductive maturity. From then on, throughout a the reproductive years, ovulation occurs approximately once every 28 days. Just prior to ovulation, a surge of luteinizing hormone triggers the resumption of meiosis in a primary oocyte. This initiates the transition from primary to secondary oocyte. However, as you
