Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


until right before ovulation. Folliculogenesis begins with follicles in a resting state. These smallprimordial folliclesare present in newborn females and are the prevailing follicle type in the adult ovary (Figure 27.12). Primordial follicles have only a single flat layer of support cells, calledgranulosa cells, that surround the oocyte, and they can stay in this resting state for years—some until right before menopause. After puberty, a few primordial follicles will respond to a recruitment signal each day, and will join a pool of immature growing follicles calledprimary follicles. Primary follicles start with a single layer of granulosa cells, but the granulosa cells then become active and transition from a flat or squamous shape to a rounded, cuboidal shape as they increase in size and proliferate. As the granulosa cells divide, the follicles—now calledsecondary follicles (seeFigure 27.12)—increase in diameter, adding a new outer layer of connective tissue, blood vessels, andtheca cells—cells that work with the granulosa cells to produce estrogens. Within the growing secondary follicle, the primary oocyte now secretes a thin acellular membrane called the zona pellucida that will play a critical role in fertilization. A thick fluid, called follicular fluid, that has formed between the granulosa cells also begins to collect into one large pool, orantrum. Follicles in which the antrum has become large and fully formed are consideredtertiary follicles(or antral follicles). Several follicles reach the tertiary stage at the same time, and most of these will undergo atresia. The one that does not die will continue to grow and develop until ovulation, when it will expel its secondary oocyte surrounded by several layers of granulosa cells from the ovary. Keep in mind that most follicles don’t make it to this point. In fact, roughly 99 percent of the follicles in the ovary will undergo atresia, which can occur at any stage of folliculogenesis. 1202 27 • The Reproductive System FIGURE27.12 Folliculogenesis (a) The maturation of a follicle is shown in a clockwise direction proceeding from the primordial follicles. FSH stimulates the growth of a tertiary follicle, and LH stimulates the production of estrogen by granulosa and theca cells. Once the follicle is mature, it ruptures and releases the oocyte. Cells remaining in the follicle then develop into the corpus luteum. (b) In this electron micrograph of a secondary follicle, the oocyte, theca cells (thecae folliculi), and developing antrum are clearly visible. EM × 1100. (Micrograph provided by the Regents
