Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the influence of prostaglandins, the spiral arteries of the endometrium constrict and rupture, preventing oxygenated blood from reaching the endometrial tissue. As a result, endometrial tissue dies and blood, pieces of the endometrial tissue, and white blood cells are shed through the vagina during menstruation, or themenses. The first menses after puberty, calledmenarche, can occur either before or after the first ovulation. The Menstrual Cycle Now that we have discussed the maturation of the cohort of tertiary follicles in the ovary, the build-up and then shedding of the endometrial lining in the uterus, and the function of the uterine tubes and vagina, we can put everything together to talk about the three phases of themenstrual cycle—the series of changes in which the uterine lining is shed, rebuilds, and prepares for implantation. The timing of the menstrual cycle starts with the first day of menses, referred to as day one of a period. Cycle length is determined by counting the days between the onset of bleeding in two subsequent cycles. Because the average length of a menstrual cycle is 28 days, this is the time period used to identify the timing of events in the cycle. However, the length of the menstrual cycle varies, and even in the same person from one cycle to the next, typically from 21 to 32 days. Just as the hormones produced by the granulosa and theca cells of the ovary “drive” the follicular and luteal phases of the ovarian cycle, they also control the three distinct phases of the menstrual cycle. These are the menses phase, the proliferative phase, and the secretory phase. Menses Phase Themenses phaseof the menstrual cycle is the phase during which the lining is shed; that is, the days that the person menstruates. Although it averages approximately five days, the menses phase can last from 2 to 7 days, or longer. As shown inFigure 27.15, the menses phase occurs during the early days of the follicular phase of the ovarian cycle, when progesterone, FSH, and LH levels are low. Recall that progesterone concentrations decline as a result of the degradation of the corpus luteum, marking the end of the luteal phase. This decline in progesterone triggers the shedding of the stratum functionalis of the endometrium. 1208 27 • The Reproductive System FIGURE27.15 Hormone Levels in Ovarian and Menstrual Cycles The correlation of the hormone levels and their effects on the female
