Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


organs, they are considered accessory organs of the female reproductive system. The function of the breasts is to supply milk to an infant in a process called lactation. The external features of the breast include a nipple surrounded by a pigmentedareola(Figure 27.17), whose coloration may deepen during pregnancy. The areola is typically circular and can vary in size from 25 to 100 mm in diameter. The areolar region is characterized by small, raised areolar glands that secrete lubricating fluid during lactation to protect the nipple from chafing. When a baby nurses, or draws milk from the breast, the entire areolar region is taken into the mouth. Breast milk is produced by themammary glands, which are modified sweat glands. The milk itself exits the breast through the nipple via 15 to 20lactiferous ductsthat open on the surface of the nipple. These lactiferous ducts each extend to alactiferous sinusthat connects to a glandular lobe within the breast itself that contains groups of milk-secreting cells in clusters calledalveoli(seeFigure 27.17). The clusters can change in size depending on the Access for free at openstax.org 27.2 • Anatomy and Physiology of the Ovarian Reproductive System 1211 amount of milk in the alveolar lumen. Once milk is made in the alveoli, stimulated myoepithelial cells that surround the alveoli contract to push the milk to the lactiferous sinuses. From here, the baby can draw milk through the lactiferous ducts by suckling. The lobes themselves are surrounded by fat tissue, which determines the size of the breast; breast size differs between individuals and does not affect the amount of milk produced. Supporting the breasts are multiple bands of connective tissue calledsuspensory ligamentsthat connect the breast tissue to the dermis of the overlying skin. FIGURE27.17 Anatomy of the Breast During lactation, milk moves from the alveoli through the lactiferous ducts to the nipple. During the normal hormonal fluctuations in the menstrual cycle, breast tissue responds to changing levels of estrogen and progesterone, which can lead to swelling and breast tenderness in some individuals, especially during the secretory phase. If pregnancy occurs, the increase in hormones leads to further development of the mammary tissue and enlargement of the breasts. Hormonal Birth Control Birth control pills take advantage of the negative feedback system that regulates the ovarian and menstrual cycles to stop ovulation and prevent pregnancy. Typically they work by providing a constant level of both estrogen and progesterone, which negatively
