Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the egg, with primordial gonads beginning to develop approximately one month after conception. Reproductive development continues in utero, but Access for free at openstax.org 27.3 • Development of the Male and Female Reproductive Systems 1213 there is little change in the reproductive system between infancy and puberty. Development of the Sexual Organs in the Embryo and Fetus Mammalian sex determination is generally determined by X and Y chromosomes. Individuals homozygous for X (XX) are female in sex and heterozygous individuals (XY) are male. The presence of a Y chromosome triggers the development of a certain set of male characteristics and its absence results in female characteristics. Nondisjunction during meiosis can produce other combinations such as XXY, XYY, and XO which are called chromosomal intersex. Without much chemical prompting, all fertilized eggs would develop into females. To become a male, an individual must be exposed to the cascade of factors initiated by a single gene on the male Y chromosome. This is called the SRY (Sex-determiningRegion of theYchromosome). Because females do not have a Y chromosome, they do not have theSRYgene. Without a functionalSRYgene, an individual will be female. In both male and female embryos, the same group of cells has the potential to develop into either the male or female gonads; this tissue is considered bipotential. TheSRYgene actively recruits other genes that begin to develop the testes, and suppresses genes that are important in female development. As part of thisSRY-prompted cascade, germ cells in the bipotential gonads differentiate into spermatogonia. WithoutSRY, different genes are expressed, oogonia form, and primordial follicles develop in the primitive ovary. Soon after the formation of the testis, the Leydig cells begin to secrete testosterone. Testosterone can influence tissues that are bipotential to become male reproductive structures. For example, with exposure to testosterone, cells that could become either the glans penis or the glans clitoris form the glans penis. Without testosterone, these same cells differentiate into the clitoris. Not all tissues in the reproductive tract are bipotential. The internal reproductive structures (for example the uterus, uterine tubes, and part of the vagina in females; and the epididymis, ductus deferens, and seminal vesicles in males) form from one of two rudimentary duct systems in the embryo. For typical reproductive function in the adult, one set of these ducts must develop properly, and the other must degrade. In males, secretions from sustentacular cells trigger a degradation of the
