Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


and pubic hair, and increased Broadening of the pelvis and growth of axillary growth of body hair and pubic hair TABLE27.1 As a female reaches puberty, typically the first change that is visible is the development of the breast tissue. This is followed by the growth of axillary and pubic hair. A growth spurt normally starts at approximately age 9 to 11, and may last two years or more. During this time, height can increase 3 inches a year. The next step in puberty is menarche, the start of menstruation. In males, the growth of the testes is typically the first physical sign of the beginning of puberty, which is followed by growth and pigmentation of the scrotum and growth of the penis. The next step is the growth of hair, including armpit, pubic, chest, and facial hair. Testosterone stimulates the growth of the larynx and thickening and lengthening of the vocal folds, which causes the voice to drop in pitch. The first fertile ejaculations typically appear at approximately 15 years of age, but this age can vary widely across individuals. Unlike the early growth spurt observed in females, the male growth spurt occurs toward the end of puberty, at approximately age 11 to 13, and height can increase as much as 4 inches a year. In some males, pubertal development can continue through the early 20s. 1216 27 • Key Terms Key Terms alveoli (of the breast) milk-secreting cells in the menstrual cycle and then sheds with menses mammary gland epididymis (plural = epididymides) coiled tubular ampulla (of the uterine tube) middle portion of the structure in which sperm start to mature and are uterine tube in which fertilization often occurs stored until ejaculation antrum fluid-filled chamber that characterizes a fimbriae fingerlike projections on the distal uterine mature tertiary (antral) follicle tubes areola highly pigmented, circular area surrounding follicle ovarian structure of one oocyte and the raised nipple and containing areolar glands that surrounding granulosa (and later theca) cells secrete fluid important for lubrication during folliculogenesis development of ovarian follicles suckling from primordial to tertiary under the stimulation of Bartholin’s glands (also, greater vestibular glands) gonadotropins glands that produce a thick mucus that maintains fundus (of the uterus) domed portion of the uterus moisture in the vulva area; also referred to as the that is superior to the uterine tubes greater vestibular glands gamete haploid reproductive cell that contributes
