Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


uterine tubes (also, fallopian tubes or oviducts) ducts the bladder surrounding the urethra and that facilitate transport of an ovulated oocyte to the contributing fluid to semen during ejaculation uterus puberty life stage during which a male or female uterus muscular hollow organ in which a fertilized adolescent becomes anatomically and egg develops into a fetus physiologically capable of reproduction vagina tunnel-like organ that provides access to the 1218 27 • Chapter Review uterus for the insertion of semen and from the Wolffian duct duct system present in the embryo uterus for the birth of a baby that will eventually form the internal male vulva external female genitalia reproductive structures Chapter Review 27.1Anatomy and Physiology of the vagina during childbirth. Testicular Reproductive System The ovaries produce oocytes, the female gametes, in a Gametes are the reproductive cells that combine to process called oogenesis. As with spermatogenesis, form offspring. Organs called gonads produce the meiosis produces the haploid gamete (in this case, an gametes, along with the hormones that regulate ovum); however, it is completed only in an oocyte that human reproduction. The male gametes are called has been penetrated by a sperm. In the ovary, an sperm. Spermatogenesis, the production of sperm, oocyte surrounded by supporting cells is called a occurs within the seminiferous tubules that make up follicle. In folliculogenesis, primordial follicles develop most of the testis. The scrotum is the muscular sac that into primary, secondary, and tertiary follicles. Early holds the testes outside of the body cavity. tertiary follicles with their fluid-filled antrum will be stimulated by an increase in FSH, a gonadotropin Spermatogenesis begins with mitotic division of produced by the anterior pituitary, to grow in the spermatogonia (stem cells) to produce primary 28-day ovarian cycle. Supporting granulosa and theca spermatocytes that undergo the two divisions of cells in the growing follicles produce estrogens, until meiosis to become secondary spermatocytes, then the the level of estrogen in the bloodstream is high enough haploid spermatids. During spermiogenesis, that it triggers negative feedback at the hypothalamus spermatids are transformed into spermatozoa (formed and pituitary. This results in a reduction of FSH and LH, sperm). Upon release from the seminiferous tubules, and most tertiary follicles in the ovary undergo atresia sperm are moved to the epididymis where they (they die). One follicle, usually the one with the most continue to mature. During ejaculation, sperm exit the FSH receptors, survives
