Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


atresia sperm are moved to the epididymis where they (they die). One follicle, usually the one with the most continue to mature. During ejaculation, sperm exit the FSH receptors, survives this period and is now called epididymis through the ductus deferens, a duct in the the dominant follicle. The dominant follicle produces spermatic cord that leaves the scrotum. The ampulla of more estrogen, triggering positive feedback and the LH the ductus deferens meets the seminal vesicle, a gland surge that will induce ovulation. Following ovulation, that contributes fructose and proteins, at the the granulosa cells of the empty follicle luteinize and ejaculatory duct. The fluid continues through the transform into the progesterone-producing corpus prostatic urethra, where secretions from the prostate luteum. The ovulated oocyte with its surrounding are added to form semen. These secretions help the granulosa cells is picked up by the infundibulum of the sperm to travel through the urethra and into the female uterine tube, and beating cilia help to transport it reproductive tract. Secretions from the bulbourethral through the tube toward the uterus. Fertilization occurs glands protect sperm and cleanse and lubricate the within the uterine tube, and the final stage of meiosis is penile (spongy) urethra. completed. The penis is the male organ of copulation. Columns of The uterus has three regions: the fundus, the body, and erectile tissue called the corpora cavernosa and corpus the cervix. It has three layers: the outer perimetrium, spongiosum fill with blood when sexual arousal the muscular myometrium, and the inner activates vasodilatation in the blood vessels of the endometrium. The endometrium responds to estrogen penis. Testosterone regulates and maintains the sex released by the follicles during the menstrual cycle and organs and sex drive, and induces the physical changes grows thicker with an increase in blood vessels in of puberty. Interplay between the testes and the preparation for pregnancy. If the egg is not fertilized, endocrine system precisely control the production of no signal is sent to extend the life of the corpus luteum, testosterone with a negative feedback loop. and it degrades, stopping progesterone production. 27.2Anatomy and Physiology of the This decline in progesterone results in the sloughing of Ovarian Reproductive System the inner portion of the endometrium in a process called menses, or menstruation. The external female genitalia are collectively called the The breasts are accessory organs that may be utilized vulva. The vagina is the
