Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


endometrium in a process called menses, or menstruation. The external female genitalia are collectively called the The breasts are accessory organs that may be utilized vulva. The vagina is the pathway into and out of the after the birth of a child to produce milk in a process uterus. The penis is inserted into the vagina to deliver called lactation. Birth control pills provide constant sperm, and the baby exits the uterus through the levels of estrogen and progesterone to negatively feed Access for free at openstax.org 27 • Interactive Link Questions 1219 back on the hypothalamus and pituitary, and suppress ducts that will develop into only male (Wolffian) or the release of FSH and LH, which inhibits ovulation and female (Müllerian) structures. To be able to reproduce prevents pregnancy. as an adult, one of these systems must develop properly and the other must degrade. 27.3Development of the Male and Female Reproductive Systems Further development of the reproductive systems occurs at puberty. The initiation of the changes that The reproductive systems of males and females begin occur in puberty is the result of a decrease in to develop soon after conception. A gene on the Y sensitivity to negative feedback in the hypothalamus chromosome calledSRYis critical in stimulating a and pituitary gland, and an increase in sensitivity of the cascade of events that simultaneously stimulate testis gonads to FSH and LH stimulation. These changes lead development and repress the development of female to increases in either estrogen or testosterone. The structures. Testosterone produced by Leydig cells in increase in sex steroid hormones leads to maturation the embryonic testis stimulates the development of of the gonads and other reproductive organs. The male sexual organs. If testosterone is not present, initiation of spermatogenesis begins, as well as female sexual organs will develop. ovulation and menstruation. Increases in sex steroid Whereas the gonads and some other reproductive hormones also lead to the development of secondary tissues are considered bipotential, the tissue that sex characteristics. forms the internal reproductive structures stems from Interactive Link Questions 1. Watch thisvideo( 3. Watch thisvideo( to learn about vasectomy. As described in this observe ovulation and its initiation in response to video, a vasectomy is a procedure in which a small the release of FSH and LH from the pituitary gland. section of the ductus (vas) deferens is removed What specialized structures help guide the oocyte from the
