Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


which a small the release of FSH and LH from the pituitary gland. section of the ductus (vas) deferens is removed What specialized structures help guide the oocyte from the scrotum. This interrupts the path taken by from the ovary into the uterine tube? sperm through the ductus deferens. If sperm do not 4. Watch this series ofvideos( exit through the vas, either because the person has oocyte)to look at the movement of the oocyte had a vasectomy or has not ejaculated, in what through the ovary. The cilia in the uterine tube region of the testis do they remain? promote movement of the oocyte. What would 2. Watch thisvideo( likely occur if the cilia were paralyzed at the time of to explore the structures of the male reproductive ovulation? system and the path of sperm that starts in the 5. The different genitalia of fetuses develop from the testes and ends as the sperm leave the penis same tissues in the embryo. View thisanimation through the urethra. Where are sperm deposited ( compares the after they leave the ejaculatory duct? development of structures of the female and male reproductive systems in a growing fetus. Where are the testes located for most of gestational time? Review Questions 6. What are male gametes called? 8. Which hypothalamic hormone contributes to the a. ova regulation of the male reproductive system? b. sperm a. luteinizing hormone c. testes b. gonadotropin-releasing hormone d. testosterone c. follicle-stimulating hormone d. androgens 7. Leydig cells ________. a. secrete testosterone 9. What is the function of the epididymis? b. activate the sperm flagellum a. sperm maturation and storage c. support spermatogenesis b. produces the bulk of seminal fluid d. secrete seminal fluid c. provides nitric oxide needed for erections d. spermatogenesis 1220 27 • Critical Thinking Questions 10. Spermatogenesis takes place in the ________. 16. The vulva includes the ________. a. prostate gland a. lactiferous duct, rugae, and hymen b. glans penis b. lactiferous duct, endometrium, and c. seminiferous tubules bulbourethral glands d. ejaculatory duct c. mons pubis, endometrium, and hymen d. mons pubis, labia majora, and Bartholin’s 11. What are the female gonads called? glands a. oocytes b. ova 17. What controls whether an embryo will develop c. oviducts testes or ovaries? d. ovaries a. pituitary gland b. hypothalamus 12. When do the oogonia undergo mitosis? c. Y chromosome a. before birth d. presence or absence of
