Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


c. oviducts testes or ovaries? d. ovaries a. pituitary gland b. hypothalamus 12. When do the oogonia undergo mitosis? c. Y chromosome a. before birth d. presence or absence of estrogen b. at puberty c. at the beginning of each menstrual cycle 18. WithoutSRYexpression, an embryo will develop d. during fertilization ________. a. male reproductive structures 13. From what structure does the corpus luteum b. female reproductive structures originate? c. no reproductive structures a. uterine corpus d. male reproductive structures 50 percent of b. dominant follicle the time and female reproductive structures c. fallopian tube 50 percent of the time d. corpus albicans 19. The timing of puberty can be influenced by which 14. Where does fertilization of the egg by the sperm of the following? typically occur? a. genes a. vagina b. stress b. uterus c. amount of body fat c. uterine tube d. all of the above d. ovary 15. Why do estrogen levels fall after menopause? a. The ovaries degrade. b. There are no follicles left to produce estrogen. c. The pituitary secretes a menopause-specific hormone. d. The cells of the endometrium degenerate. Critical Thinking Questions 20. Briefly explain why mature gametes carry only one 25. Follow the path of ejaculated sperm from the set of chromosomes. vagina to the oocyte. Include all structures of the 21. What special features are evident in sperm cells female reproductive tract that the sperm must but not in somatic cells, and how do these travel through to reach the egg. specializations function? 26. Identify some differences between meiosis in 22. What do each of the three male accessory glands males and females. contribute to the semen? 27. Explain the hormonal regulation of the phases of 23. Describe how penile erection occurs. the menstrual cycle. 24. While anabolic steroids (synthetic testosterone) 28. Endometriosis is a disease characterized by the bulk up muscles, they can also affect testosterone presence of endometrial-like tissue found outside production in the testis. Using what you know the uterus—in the uterine tubes, on the ovaries, or about negative feedback, describe what would even in the pelvic cavity. Offer a hypothesis as to happen to testosterone production in the testis if a why endometriosis increases a woman’s risk of male takes large amounts of synthetic infertility. testosterone. Access for free at openstax.org 27 • Critical Thinking Questions 1221 29. Identify the changes in sensitivity that occur in the
