Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


of male takes large amounts of synthetic infertility. testosterone. Access for free at openstax.org 27 • Critical Thinking Questions 1221 29. Identify the changes in sensitivity that occur in the 30. Explain how the internal female and male hypothalamus, pituitary, and gonads as a person reproductive structures develop from two approaches puberty. Explain how these changes different duct systems. lead to the increases of sex steroid hormone 31. Explain what would occur during fetal secretions that drive many pubertal changes. development to an XY individual with a mutation causing a nonfunctionalSRYgene. 1222 27 • Critical Thinking Questions Access for free at openstax.org CHAPTER 28 Development and Inheritance Figure28.1 NewbornA single fertilized egg develops over the span of nine months into an infant consisting of trillions of cells and capable of surviving outside the womb. (credit: “Seattleye”/flickr.com) CHAPTER OBJECTIVES After studying this chapter, you will be able to: • List and explain the steps involved in fertilization • Describe the major events in embryonic development • Describe the major events in fetal development • Discuss the adaptations of the body to pregnancy • Describe the physiologic adjustments that the newborn must make in the first hours of extrauterine life • Summarize the physiology of lactation • Classify and describe the different patterns of inheritance INTRODUCTION In approximately nine months, a single cell—a fertilized egg—develops into a fully formed infant consisting of trillions of cells with myriad specialized functions. The dramatic changes of fertilization, embryonic development, and fetal development are followed by remarkable adaptations of the newborn to life outside the womb. An offspring’s normal development depends upon the appropriate synthesis of structural and functional proteins. This, in turn, is governed by the genetic material inherited from the egg and sperm, as well as environmental factors. 28.1 Fertilization LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the obstacles that sperm must overcome to reach an oocyte • Explain capacitation and its importance in fertilization • Summarize the events that occur as a sperm fertilizes an oocyte Fertilizationoccurs when a sperm and an oocyte (egg) combine and their nuclei fuse. Because each of these 1224 28 • Development and Inheritance reproductive cells is a haploid cell containing half of the genetic material needed to form a human being, their combination forms a diploid cell. This new single cell, called azygote, contains all of the genetic material
