Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


out) using a syringe. In parallel, sperm are obtained from the male partner or from a sperm bank. The sperm are prepared by washing to remove seminal fluid because seminal fluid contains a peptide, FPP (or, fertilization promoting peptide), that—in high concentrations—prevents capacitation of the sperm. The sperm sample is also concentrated, to increase the sperm count per milliliter. Next, the eggs and sperm are mixed in a petri dish. The ideal ratio is 75,000 sperm to one egg. If there are severe problems with the sperm—for example, the count is exceedingly low, or the sperm are completely nonmotile, or incapable of binding to or penetrating the zona pellucida—a sperm can be injected into an egg. This is called intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). The embryos are then incubated until they either reach the eight-cell stage or the blastocyst stage. In the United States, fertilized eggs are typically cultured to the blastocyst stage because this results in a higher pregnancy rate. Finally, the embryos are transferred to a woman’s uterus using a plastic catheter (tube).Figure 28.3 illustrates the steps involved in IVF. Access for free at openstax.org 28.1 • Fertilization 1227 FIGURE28.3 IVF In vitro fertilization involves egg collection from the ovaries, fertilization in a petri dish, and the transfer of embryos into the uterus. IVF is a relatively new and still evolving technology, and until recently it was necessary to transfer multiple embryos to achieve a good chance of a pregnancy. Today, however, transferred embryos are much more likely to implant successfully, so countries that regulate the IVF industry cap the number of embryos that can be transferred per cycle at two. This reduces the risk of multiple-birth pregnancies. The rate of success for IVF is correlated with the age of the gestational carrier (which may be the child's mother or a surrogate). More than 40 percent of females under 35 succeed in giving birth following IVF, but the rate drops to a little over 10 percent in females over 40. INTERACTIVE LINK Go to thissite( view resources covering various aspects of fertilization, including movies and animations showing sperm structure and motility, ovulation, and fertilization. 1228 28 • Development and Inheritance 28.2 Embryonic Development LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Distinguish the stages of embryonic development that occur before implantation • Describe the process of implantation • List and describe four embryonic
