Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


this section, you will be able to: • Distinguish the stages of embryonic development that occur before implantation • Describe the process of implantation • List and describe four embryonic membranes • Explain gastrulation • Describe how the placenta is formed and identify its functions • Explain how an embryo transforms from a flat disc of cells into a three-dimensional shape resembling a human • Summarize the process of organogenesis Throughout this chapter, we will express embryonic and fetal ages in terms of weeks from fertilization, commonly called conception. The period of time required for full development of a fetus in utero is referred to asgestation (gestare = “to carry” or “to bear”). It can be subdivided into distinct gestational periods. The first 2 weeks of prenatal development are referred to as the pre-embryonic stage. A developing human is referred to as anembryo during weeks 3–8, and afetusfrom the ninth week of gestation until birth. In this section, we’ll cover the pre- embryonic and embryonic stages of development, which are characterized by cell division, migration, and differentiation. By the end of the embryonic period, all of the organ systems are structured in rudimentary form, although the organs themselves are either nonfunctional or only semi-functional. Pre-implantation Embryonic Development Following fertilization, the zygote and its associated membranes, together referred to as theconceptus, continue to be projected toward the uterus by peristalsis and beating cilia of the epithelial cells of the Fallopian tube. During its journey to the uterus, the zygote undergoes five or six rapid mitotic cell divisions. Although eachcleavageresults in more cells, it does not increase the total volume of the conceptus (Figure 28.4). Each daughter cell produced by cleavage is called ablastomere(blastos = “germ,” in the sense of a seed or sprout). Approximately 3 days after fertilization, a 16-cell conceptus reaches the uterus. The cells that had been loosely grouped are now compacted and look more like a solid mass. The name given to this structure is themorula(morula = “little mulberry”). Once inside the uterus, the conceptus floats freely for several more days. It continues to divide, creating a ball of approximately 100 cells, and consuming nutritive endometrial secretions called uterine milk while the uterine lining thickens. The ball of now tightly bound cells starts to secrete fluid and organize themselves around a fluid-filled cavity, theblastocoel. At this developmental stage, the conceptus is referred to as ablastocyst. Within this structure,
