Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


now tightly bound cells starts to secrete fluid and organize themselves around a fluid-filled cavity, theblastocoel. At this developmental stage, the conceptus is referred to as ablastocyst. Within this structure, a group of cells forms into aninner cell mass, which is fated to become the embryo. The cells that form the outer shell are calledtrophoblasts(trophe = “to feed” or “to nourish”). These cells will develop into the chorionic sac and the fetal portion of theplacenta(the organ of nutrient, waste, and gas exchange between a pregnant person and the developing offspring). The inner mass of embryonic cells is totipotent during this stage, meaning that each cell has the potential to differentiate into any cell type in the human body. Totipotency lasts for only a few days before the cells’ fates are set as being the precursors to a specific lineage of cells. Access for free at openstax.org 28.2 • Embryonic Development 1229 FIGURE28.4 Pre-Embryonic Cleavages Pre-embryonic cleavages make use of the abundant cytoplasm of the conceptus as the cells rapidly divide without changing the total volume. As the blastocyst forms, the trophoblast excretes enzymes that begin to degrade the zona pellucida. In a process called “hatching,” the conceptus breaks free of the zona pellucida in preparation for implantation. INTERACTIVE LINK View this time-lapsemovie( a conceptus starting at day 3. What is the first structure you see? At what point in the movie does the blastocoel first appear? What event occurs at the end of the movie? Implantation At the end of the first week, the blastocyst comes in contact with the uterine wall and adheres to it, embedding itself in the uterine lining via the trophoblast cells. Thus begins the process ofimplantation, which signals the end of the pre-embryonic stage of development (Figure 28.5). Implantation can be accompanied by minor bleeding. The blastocyst typically implants in the fundus of the uterus or on the posterior wall. However, if the endometrium is not fully developed and ready to receive the blastocyst, the blastocyst will detach and find a better spot. A significant percentage (50–75 percent) of blastocysts fail to implant; when this occurs, the blastocyst is shed with the endometrium during menses. The high rate of implantation failure is one reason why pregnancy typically requires several ovulation cycles to achieve. 1230 28 • Development and Inheritance FIGURE28.5 Pre-Embryonic Development Ovulation, fertilization, pre-embryonic development, and implantation occur at specific locations within the female
