Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


water-soluble glucose. The fetus has a high demand for amino acids and iron, and those substances are moved across the placenta by active transport. Maternal and fetal blood does not commingle because blood cells cannot move across the placenta. This separation prevents the pregnant person's cytotoxic T cells from reaching and subsequently destroying the fetus, which bears “non-self” antigens. Further, it ensures the fetal red blood cells do not enter the pregnant person's circulation and trigger antibody development (if they carry “non-self” antigens)—at least until the final stages of pregnancy or birth. This is the reason that, even in the absence of preventive treatment, an Rh−person doesn’t develop antibodies that could cause hemolytic disease in their first Rh+fetus. 1236 28 • Development and Inheritance Although blood cells are not exchanged, the chorionic villi provide ample surface area for the two-way exchange of substances between maternal and fetal blood. The rate of exchange increases throughout gestation as the villi become thinner and increasingly branched. The placenta is permeable to lipid-soluble fetotoxic substances: alcohol, nicotine, barbiturates, antibiotics, certain pathogens, and many other substances that can be dangerous or fatal to the developing embryo or fetus. For these reasons, pregnant people should avoid fetotoxic substances. Alcohol consumption by pregnant people, for example, can result in a range of abnormalities referred to as fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD). These include organ and facial malformations, as well as cognitive and behavioral disorders. Functions of the Placenta Nutrition and digestion Respiration Endocrine function • Mediates diffusion of maternal glucose, amino acids, fatty acids, vitamins, and minerals • Secretes several hormones, including hCG, • Stores nutrients during • Mediates maternal-to- estrogens, and progesterone, to maintain early pregnancy to fetal oxygen transport the pregnancy and stimulate maternal and accommodate increased and fetal-to-maternal fetal development fetal demand later in carbon dioxide transport • Mediates the transmission of maternal pregnancy hormones into fetal blood and vice versa • Excretes and filters fetal nitrogenous wastes into maternal blood TABLE28.1 FIGURE28.12 Placenta This post-expulsion placenta and umbilical cord (white) are viewed from the fetal side. Organogenesis Following gastrulation, rudiments of the central nervous system develop from the ectoderm in the process of neurulation(Figure 28.13). Specialized neuroectodermal tissues along the length of the embryo thicken into the neural plate. During the fourth week, tissues on either side of the plate fold upward into aneural fold. The two folds converge to form theneural tube.
