Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


embryo thicken into the neural plate. During the fourth week, tissues on either side of the plate fold upward into aneural fold. The two folds converge to form theneural tube. The tube lies atop a rod-shaped, mesoderm-derivednotochord, which eventually becomes the nucleus pulposus of intervertebral discs. Block-like structures calledsomitesform on either side of the tube, eventually differentiating into the axial skeleton, skeletal muscle, and dermis. During the fourth and fifth weeks, the anterior neural tube dilates and subdivides to form vesicles that will become the brain structures. Access for free at openstax.org 28.2 • Embryonic Development 1237 Folate, one of the B vitamins, is important to the healthy development of the neural tube. A deficiency of maternal folate in the first weeks of pregnancy can result in neural tube defects, including spina bifida—a birth defect in which spinal tissue protrudes through the newborn’s vertebral column, which has failed to completely close. A more severe neural tube defect is anencephaly, a partial or complete absence of brain tissue. FIGURE28.13 Neurulation The embryonic process of neurulation establishes the rudiments of the future central nervous system and skeleton. The embryo, which begins as a flat sheet of cells, begins to acquire a cylindrical shape through the process of embryonic folding(Figure 28.14). The embryo folds laterally and again at either end, forming a C-shape with distinct head and tail ends. The embryo envelops a portion of the yolk sac, which protrudes with the umbilical cord from what will become the abdomen. The folding essentially creates a tube, called the primitive gut, that is lined by the endoderm. The amniotic sac, which was sitting on top of the flat embryo, envelops the embryo as it folds. 1238 28 • Development and Inheritance FIGURE28.14 Embryonic Folding Embryonic folding converts a flat sheet of cells into a hollow, tube-like structure. Within the first 8 weeks of gestation, a developing embryo establishes the rudimentary structures of all of its organs and tissues from the ectoderm, mesoderm, and endoderm. This process is calledorganogenesis. Like the central nervous system, the heart also begins its development in the embryo as a tube-like structure, connected via capillaries to the chorionic villi. Cells of the primitive tube-shaped heart are capable of electrical conduction and contraction. The heart begins beating in the beginning of the fourth week, although it does not actually pump embryonic blood until a week later, when the oversized liver has
