Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


a coarse rattling sound. Blood gas tests and chest X-rays of the infant can confirm meconium aspiration. Inhaled meconium after birth could obstruct a newborn’s airways leading to alveolar collapse, interfere with surfactant function by stripping it from the lungs, or cause pulmonary inflammation or hypertension. Any of these complications will make the newborn much more vulnerable to pulmonary infection, including pneumonia. 28.4 Changes During Pregnancy, Labor, and Birth LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Explain how estrogen, progesterone, and hCG are involved in maintaining pregnancy • List the contributors to weight gain during pregnancy • Describe the major changes to the maternal digestive, circulatory, and integumentary systems during pregnancy • Summarize the events leading to labor • Identify and describe each of the three stages of childbirth A full-term pregnancy lasts approximately 270 days (approximately 38.5 weeks) from conception to birth. Because it is easier to remember the first day of the last menstrual period (LMP) than to estimate the date of conception, obstetricians set the due date as 284 days (approximately 40.5 weeks) from the LMP. This assumes that conception occurred on day 14 of the menstrual cycle, which is usually a good approximation. The 40 weeks of an average pregnancy are usually discussed in terms of threetrimesters, each approximately 13 weeks. During the second and third trimesters, the pre-pregnancy uterus—about the size of a fist—grows dramatically to contain the fetus, causing a number of anatomical changes in the pregnant person (Figure 28.18). 1244 28 • Development and Inheritance FIGURE28.18 Size of Uterus throughout Pregnancy The uterus grows throughout pregnancy to accommodate the fetus. Effects of Hormones Virtually all of the effects of pregnancy can be attributed in some way to the influence of hormones—particularly estrogens, progesterone, and hCG. During weeks 7–12 from the LMP, the pregnancy hormones are primarily generated by the corpus luteum. Progesterone secreted by the corpus luteum stimulates the production of decidual cells of the endometrium that nourish the blastocyst before placentation. As the placenta develops and the corpus luteum degenerates during weeks 12–17, the placenta gradually takes over as the endocrine organ of pregnancy. The placenta converts weak androgens secreted by the maternal and fetal adrenal glands to estrogens, which are necessary for pregnancy to progress. Estrogen levels climb throughout the pregnancy, increasing 30-fold by childbirth. Estrogens have the following actions: • They suppress FSH
