Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


trimesters of pregnancy are associated with dramatic changes in maternal anatomy and physiology. The most obvious anatomical sign of pregnancy is the dramatic enlargement of the abdominal region, coupled with weight gain. This weight results from the growing fetus as well as the enlarged uterus, amniotic fluid, and placenta. Additional breast tissue and dramatically increased blood volume also contribute to weight gain (Table 28.2). Surprisingly, fat storage accounts for only approximately 2.3 kg (5 lbs) in a normal pregnancy and serves as a reserve for the increased metabolic demand of breastfeeding. During the first trimester, a pregnant person does not need to consume additional calories to maintain a healthy pregnancy. However, a weight gain of approximately 0.45 kg (1 lb) per month is common. During the second and third trimesters, the appetite increases, but it is only necessary to consume an additional 300 calories per day to support the growing fetus. Most pregnant people gain approximately 0.45 kg (1 lb) per week. Contributors to Weight Gain During Pregnancy Component Weight (kg) Weight (lb) Fetus 3.2–3.6 7–8 Placenta and fetal membranes 0.9–1.8 2–4 Amniotic fluid 0.9–1.4 2–3 Breast tissue 0.9–1.4 2–3 Blood 1.4 4 Fat 0.9–4.1 3–9 Uterus 0.9–2.3 2–5 Total 10–16.3 22–36 TABLE28.2 Changes in Organ Systems During Pregnancy As the body adapts to pregnancy, characteristic physiologic changes occur. These changes can sometimes prompt symptoms often referred to collectively as the common discomforts of pregnancy. Digestive and Urinary System Changes Nausea and vomiting, sometimes triggered by an increased sensitivity to odors, are common during the first few weeks to months of pregnancy. This phenomenon is often referred to as “morning sickness,” although the nausea may persist all day. The source of pregnancy nausea is thought to be the increased circulation of pregnancy-related hormones, specifically circulating estrogen, progesterone, and hCG. Decreased intestinal peristalsis may also 1246 28 • Development and Inheritance contribute to nausea. By about week 12 of pregnancy, nausea typically subsides. A common gastrointestinal complaint during the later stages of pregnancy is gastric reflux, or heartburn, which results from the upward, constrictive pressure of the growing uterus on the stomach. The same decreased peristalsis that may contribute to nausea in early pregnancy is also thought to be responsible for pregnancy-related constipation as pregnancy progresses. The downward pressure of the uterus also compresses the urinary bladder, leading to frequent urination. The problem is exacerbated by increased urine production. In addition,
