Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


also increase slightly. When the infant suckles, sensory nerve fibers in the areola trigger a neuroendocrine reflex that results in milk secretion from lactocytes into the alveoli. The posterior pituitary releases oxytocin, which stimulates myoepithelial cells to squeeze milk from the alveoli so it can drain into the lactiferous ducts, collect in the lactiferous sinuses, and discharge through the nipple pores. It takes less than 1 minute from the time when an infant begins suckling (the latent period) until milk is secreted (the let-down).Figure 28.23summarizes the positive feedback loop of thelet- down reflex. 1254 28 • Development and Inheritance FIGURE28.23 Let-Down Reflex A positive feedback loop ensures continued milk production as long as the infant continues to breastfeed. The prolactin-mediated synthesis of milk changes with time. Frequent milk removal by breastfeeding (or pumping) will maintain high circulating prolactin levels for several months. However, even with continued breastfeeding, baseline prolactin will decrease over time to its pre-pregnancy level. In addition to prolactin and oxytocin, growth hormone, cortisol, parathyroid hormone, and insulin contribute to lactation, in part by facilitating the transport of maternal amino acids, fatty acids, glucose, and calcium to breast milk. Changes in the Composition of Breast Milk In the final weeks of pregnancy, the alveoli swell withcolostrum, a thick, yellowish substance that is high in protein but contains less fat and glucose than mature breast milk (Table 28.3). Before childbirth, some people experience leakage of colostrum from the nipples. In contrast, mature breast milk does not leak during pregnancy and is not secreted until several days after childbirth. Access for free at openstax.org 28.6 • Lactation 1255 Compositions of Human Colostrum, Mature Breast Milk, and Cow’s Milk (g/L) Human colostrum Human breast milk Cow’s milk* Total protein 23 11 31 Immunoglobulins 19 0.1 1 Fat 30 45 38 Lactose 57 71 47 Calcium 0.5 0.3 1.4 Phosphorus 0.16 0.14 0.90 Sodium 0.50 0.15 0.41 TABLE28.3*Cow’s milk should never be given to an infant. Its composition is not suitable and its proteins are difficult for the infant to digest. Colostrum is secreted during the first 48–72 hours postpartum. Only a small volume of colostrum is produced—approximately 3 ounces in a 24-hour period—but it is sufficient for the newborn in the first few days of life. Colostrum is rich with immunoglobulins, which confer gastrointestinal, and also likely systemic, immunity as the newborn adjusts to a nonsterile environment. After about the third
