Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


level of bilirubin—which is neurotoxic—can cause brain damage. Newborns, who do not yet have a fully functional blood–brain barrier, are highly vulnerable to the bilirubin circulating in the blood. Indeed, hyperbilirubinemia, a high level of circulating bilirubin, is the most common condition requiring medical attention in newborns. Newborns with hyperbilirubinemia are treated with phototherapy because UV light helps to break down the bilirubin quickly. 1256 28 • Development and Inheritance 28.7 Patterns of Inheritance LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Differentiate between genotype and phenotype • Describe how alleles determine a person’s traits • Summarize Mendel’s experiments and relate them to human genetics • Explain the inheritance of autosomal dominant and recessive and sex-linked genetic disorders We have discussed the events that lead to the development of a newborn. But what makes each newborn unique? The answer lies, of course, in the DNA in the sperm and oocyte that combined to produce that first diploid cell, the human zygote. From Genotype to Phenotype Each human body cell has a full complement of DNA stored in 23 pairs of chromosomes.Figure 28.24shows the pairs in a systematic arrangement called akaryotype. Among these is one pair of chromosomes, called thesex chromosomes, that determines the sex of the individual (XX in females, XY in males). The remaining 22 chromosome pairs are calledautosomal chromosomes. Each of these chromosomes carries hundreds or even thousands of genes, each of which codes for the assembly of a particular protein—that is, genes are “expressed” as proteins. An individual’s complete genetic makeup is referred to as theirgenotype. The characteristics that the genes express, whether they are physical, behavioral, or biochemical, are a person’sphenotype. In genetics and reproduction, "parent" is often used to describe the individual organisms that contribute genetic material to offspring, usually in the form of gamete cells and their chromosomes. The concept of a genetic parent is distinct from social and legal concepts of parenthood, and may differ from those whom people consider their parents. You inherit one chromosome in each pair—a full complement of 23—from each parent. This occurs when the sperm and oocyte combine at the moment of your conception. Homologous chromosomes—those that make up a complementary pair—have genes for the same characteristics in the same location on the chromosome. Because one copy of a gene, anallele, is inherited from each parent, the alleles in these complementary pairs
