Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Consider a cross between an individual with two dominant alleles for a trait (AA) and an individual with two recessive alleles for the same trait (aa). All of the parental gametes from the dominant individual would beA, and all of the parental gametes from the recessive individual would bea(Figure 28.25). All of the offspring of that second generation, inheriting one allele from each parent, would have the genotypeAa, and the probability of expressing the phenotype of the dominant allele would be 4 out of 4, or 100 percent. This seems simple enough, but the inheritance pattern gets interesting when the second-generationAaindividuals are crossed. In this generation, 50 percent of each parent’s gametes areAand the other 50 percent area. By Mendel’s principle of random segregation, the possible combinations of gametes that the offspring can receive are AA,Aa,aA(which is the same asAa), andaa. Because segregation and fertilization are random, each offspring has a 25 percent chance of receiving any of these combinations. Therefore, if anAa×Aacross were performed 1000 times, approximately 250 (25 percent) of the offspring would beAA; 500 (50 percent) would beAa(that is,Aaplus aA); and 250 (25 percent) would beaa. The genotypic ratio for this inheritance pattern is 1:2:1. However, we have already established thatAAandAa(andaA) individuals all express the dominant trait (i.e., share the same phenotype), and can therefore be combined into one group. The result is Mendel’s third-generation phenotype ratio of 3:1. Access for free at openstax.org 28.7 • Patterns of Inheritance 1259 FIGURE28.25 Random Segregation In the formation of gametes, it is equally likely that either one of a pair alleles from one parent will be passed on to the offspring. This figure follows the possible combinations of alleles through two generations following a first- generation cross of homozygous dominant and homozygous recessive parents. The recessive phenotype, which is masked in the second generation, has a 1 in 4, or 25 percent, chance of reappearing in the third generation. Mendel’s observation of pea plants also included many crosses that involved multiple traits, which prompted him to formulate the principle of independent assortment. The law states that the members of one pair of genes (alleles) from a parent will sort independently from other pairs of genes during the formation of gametes. Applied to pea plants, that means that the alleles associated with the different traits of the plant, such as color, height, or seed type, will sort independently of one
