Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


tumor formation within the nervous system that leads to skin and skeletal deformities. Consider a couple in which one parent is heterozygous for this disorder (and who therefore has neurofibromatosis),Nn, and one parent is homozygous for the normal gene,nn. The heterozygous parent would have a 50 percent chance of passing the dominant allele for this disorder to their offspring, and the homozygous parent would always pass the normal allele. Therefore, four possible offspring 1260 28 • Development and Inheritance genotypes are equally likely to occur:Nn,Nn,nn, andnn. That is, every child of this couple would have a 50 percent chance of inheriting neurofibromatosis. This inheritance pattern is shown inFigure 28.26, in a form called aPunnett square, named after its creator, the British geneticist Reginald Punnett. FIGURE28.26 Autosomal Dominant Inheritance Inheritance pattern of an autosomal dominant disorder, such as neurofibromatosis, is shown in a Punnett square. Other genetic diseases that are inherited in this pattern are achondroplastic dwarfism, Marfan syndrome, and Huntington’s disease. Because autosomal dominant disorders are expressed by the presence of just one gene, an individual with the disorder will know that they have at least one faulty gene. The expression of the disease may manifest later in life, after the childbearing years, which is the case in Huntington’s disease (discussed in more detail later in this section). Autosomal Recessive Inheritance When a genetic disorder is inherited in anautosomal recessivepattern, the disorder corresponds to the recessive phenotype. Heterozygous individuals will not display symptoms of this disorder, because their unaffected gene will compensate. Such an individual is called acarrier. Carriers for an autosomal recessive disorder may never know their genotype unless they have a child with the disorder. An example of an autosomal recessive disorder is cystic fibrosis (CF), which we introduced earlier. CF is characterized by the chronic accumulation of a thick, tenacious mucus in the lungs and digestive tract. Decades ago, children with CF rarely lived to adulthood. With advances in medical technology, the average lifespan in developed countries has increased into middle adulthood. CF is a relatively common disorder that occurs in approximately 30,000 people in the United States. A child born to two CF carriers would have a 25 percent chance of inheriting the disease. This is the same 3:1 dominant:recessive ratio that Mendel observed in his pea plants would apply here. The pattern is shown inFigure 28.27, using a diagram that tracks the likely incidence of
