Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the same 3:1 dominant:recessive ratio that Mendel observed in his pea plants would apply here. The pattern is shown inFigure 28.27, using a diagram that tracks the likely incidence of an autosomal recessive disorder on the basis of parental genotypes. On the other hand, a child born to a CF carrier and someone with two unaffected alleles would have a 0 percent probability of inheriting CF, but would have a 50 percent chance of being a carrier. Other examples of autosome recessive genetic illnesses include the blood disorder sickle-cell anemia, the fatal neurological disorder Tay–Sachs disease, and the metabolic disorder phenylketonuria. Access for free at openstax.org 28.7 • Patterns of Inheritance 1261 FIGURE28.27 Autosomal Recessive Inheritance The inheritance pattern of an autosomal recessive disorder with two carrier parents reflects a 3:1 probability of expression among offspring. (credit: U.S. National Library of Medicine) X-linked Dominant or Recessive Inheritance AnX-linkedtransmission pattern involves genes located on the X chromosome of the 23rd pair (Figure 28.28). Recall that a male has one X and one Y chromosome. When a male transmits a Y chromosome, the child is male, and when a male parent transmits an X chromosome, the child is female. A female can transmit only an X chromosome, as both her sex chromosomes are X chromosomes. When an abnormal allele for a gene that occurs on the X chromosome is dominant over the normal allele, the pattern is described asX-linked dominant. This is the case with vitamin D–resistant rickets: an affected male would pass the disease gene to all of the female offspring, but none of the male offspring, because the male transmits only the Y chromosome to male offspring (seeFigure 28.28a). If it is the female parent who is affected, all of the offspring—male or female—would have a 50 percent chance of inheriting the disorder because the female parent can only pass an X chromosome on to children (seeFigure 28.28b). For an affected female, the inheritance pattern would be identical to that of an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern in which one parent is heterozygous and the other is homozygous for the normal gene. 1262 28 • Development and Inheritance FIGURE28.28 X-Linked Patterns of Inheritance A chart of X-linked dominant inheritance patterns differs depending on which parent is affected with the disease. (credit: U.S. National Library of Medicine) X-linked recessiveinheritance is much more common because females can be carriers of the disease yet
