Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


depending on which parent is affected with the disease. (credit: U.S. National Library of Medicine) X-linked recessiveinheritance is much more common because females can be carriers of the disease yet still have a normal phenotype. Diseases transmitted by X-linked recessive inheritance include color blindness, the blood- clotting disorder hemophilia, and some forms of muscular dystrophy. For an example of X-linked recessive inheritance, consider parents in which the female is an unaffected carrier and the male is normal. None of the female offspring would have the disease because they receive a normal gene from their male parent. However, they have a 50 percent chance of receiving the disease gene from their female parent and becoming a carrier. In contrast, 50 percent of the male offspring would be affected (Figure 28.29). With X-linked recessive diseases, males either have the disease or are genotypically normal—they cannot be carriers. Females, however, can be genotypically normal, a carrier who is phenotypically normal, or affected with the disease. A female can inherit the gene for an X-linked recessive illness when the female parent is a carrier or Access for free at openstax.org 28.7 • Patterns of Inheritance 1263 affected, or the male parent is affected. Female offspring will be affected by the disease only if they inherit an X- linked recessive gene from both parents. As you can imagine, X-linked recessive disorders affect many more males than females. For example, color blindness affects at least 1 in 20 males, but only about 1 in 400 females. FIGURE28.29 X-Linked Recessive Inheritance Given two parents in which the male is normal and the female is a carrier of an X-linked recessive disorder, a male offspring would have a 50 percent probability of being affected with the disorder, whereas female offspring would either be carriers or entirely unaffected. (credit: U.S. National Library of Medicine) Other Inheritance Patterns: Incomplete Dominance, Codominance, and Lethal Alleles Not all genetic disorders are inherited in a dominant–recessive pattern. Inincomplete dominance, the offspring express a heterozygous phenotype that is intermediate between one parent’s homozygous dominant trait and the other parent’s homozygous recessive trait. An example of this can be seen in snapdragons when red-flowered plants and white-flowered plants are crossed to produce pink-flowered plants. In humans, incomplete dominance occurs with one of the genes for hair texture. When one parent passes a curly hair allele (the incompletely dominant allele) and the other parent passes a
