Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


humans, incomplete dominance occurs with one of the genes for hair texture. When one parent passes a curly hair allele (the incompletely dominant allele) and the other parent passes a straight-hair allele, the effect on the offspring will be intermediate, resulting in hair that is wavy. Codominanceis characterized by the equal, distinct, and simultaneous expression of both parents’ different alleles. This pattern differs from the intermediate, blended features seen in incomplete dominance. A classic example of codominance in humans is ABO blood type. People are blood type A if they have an allele for an enzyme that facilitates the production of surface antigen A on their erythrocytes. This allele is designatedIA. In the same manner, people are blood type B if they express an enzyme for the production of surface antigen B. People who have alleles for both enzymes (IAandIB) produce both surface antigens A and B. As a result, they are blood type AB. Because the effect of both alleles (or enzymes) is observed, we say that theIAandIBalleles are codominant. There is also a third allele that determines blood type. This allele (i) produces a nonfunctional enzyme. People who have twoialleles do not produce either A or B surface antigens: they have type O blood. If a person hasIAandialleles, the person will have blood type A. Notice that it does not make any difference whether a person has twoIAalleles or oneIAand oneiallele. In both cases, the person is blood type A. BecauseIAmasksi, we say thatIAis dominant toi. Table 28.4summarizes the expression of blood type. 1264 28 • Development and Inheritance Expression of Blood Types Blood type Genotype Pattern of inheritance A IAIAorIAi IAis dominant toi B IBIBorIBi IBis dominant toi AB IAIB IAis co-dominant toIB O ii Two recessive alleles TABLE28.4 Certain combinations of alleles can be lethal, meaning they prevent the individual from developing in utero, or cause a shortened life span. Inrecessive lethalinheritance patterns, a child who is born to two heterozygous (carrier) parents and who inherited the faulty allele from both would not survive. An example of this is Tay–Sachs, a fatal disorder of the nervous system. In this disorder, parents with one copy of the allele for the disorder are carriers. If they both transmit their abnormal allele, their offspring will develop the disease and will die in childhood, usually before age 5. Dominant lethalinheritance patterns are much more rare because neither heterozygotes nor homozygotes
