Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


Hundreds of millions of sperm deposited in the vagina corona radiata and by the zona pellucida, a thick travel toward the oocyte, but only a few hundred glycoprotein membrane that lies just outside the actually reach it. The number of sperm that reach the oocyte’s plasma membrane. When capacitated sperm oocyte is greatly reduced because of conditions within make contact with the oocyte, they release the the female reproductive tract. Many sperm are digestive enzymes in the acrosome (the acrosomal overcome by the acidity of the vagina, others are reaction) and are thus able to attach to the oocyte and blocked by mucus in the cervix, whereas others are burrow through to the oocyte’s zona pellucida. One of attacked by phagocytic leukocytes in the uterus. Those the sperm will then break through to the oocyte’s sperm that do survive undergo a change in response to plasma membrane and release its haploid nucleus into those conditions. They go through the process of the oocyte. The oocyte’s membrane structure changes capacitation, which improves their motility and alters in response (cortical reaction), preventing any further the membrane surrounding the acrosome, the cap-like penetration by another sperm and forming a structure in the head of a sperm that contains the fertilization membrane. Fertilization is complete upon digestive enzymes needed for it to attach to and unification of the haploid nuclei of the two gametes, penetrate the oocyte. Access for free at openstax.org 28 • Chapter Review 1269 producing a diploid zygote. 28.4Changes During Pregnancy, Labor, and Birth 28.2Embryonic Development Hormones (especially estrogens, progesterone, and As the zygote travels toward the uterus, it undergoes hCG) secreted by the corpus luteum and later by the numerous cleavages in which the number of cells placenta are responsible for most of the changes doubles (blastomeres). Upon reaching the uterus, the experienced during pregnancy. Estrogen maintains the conceptus has become a tightly packed sphere of cells pregnancy, promotes fetal viability, and stimulates called the morula, which then forms into a blastocyst tissue growth in the mother and developing fetus. consisting of an inner cell mass within a fluid-filled Progesterone prevents new ovarian follicles from cavity surrounded by trophoblasts. The blastocyst developing and suppresses uterine contractility. implants in the uterine wall, the trophoblasts fuse to form a syncytiotrophoblast, and the conceptus is Pregnancy weight gain primarily occurs in the breasts enveloped by the endometrium. Four embryonic and abdominal region. Nausea,
