Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


wall, the trophoblasts fuse to form a syncytiotrophoblast, and the conceptus is Pregnancy weight gain primarily occurs in the breasts enveloped by the endometrium. Four embryonic and abdominal region. Nausea, heartburn, and membranes form to support the growing embryo: the frequent urination are common during pregnancy. amnion, the yolk sac, the allantois, and the chorion. Maternal blood volume increases by 30 percent during The chorionic villi of the chorion extend into the pregnancy and respiratory minute volume increases by endometrium to form the fetal portion of the placenta. 50 percent. The skin may develop stretch marks and The placenta supplies the growing embryo with oxygen melanin production may increase. and nutrients; it also removes carbon dioxide and other Toward the late stages of pregnancy, a drop in metabolic wastes. progesterone and stretching forces from the fetus lead Following implantation, embryonic cells undergo to increasing uterine irritability and prompt labor. gastrulation, in which they differentiate and separate Contractions serve to dilate the cervix and expel the into an embryonic disc and establish three primary newborn. Delivery of the placenta and associated fetal germ layers (the endoderm, mesoderm, and membranes follows. ectoderm). Through the process of embryonic folding, 28.5Adjustments of the Infant at Birth and the fetus begins to take shape. Neurulation starts the Postnatal Stages process of the development of structures of the central nervous system and organogenesis establishes the The first breath a newborn takes at birth inflates the basic plan for all organ systems. lungs and dramatically alters the circulatory system, closing the three shunts that directed oxygenated 28.3Fetal Development blood away from the lungs and liver during fetal life. The fetal period lasts from the ninth week of Clamping and cutting the umbilical cord collapses the development until birth. During this period, male and three umbilical blood vessels. The proximal umbilical female gonads differentiate. The fetal circulatory arteries remain a part of the circulatory system, system becomes much more specialized and efficient whereas the distal umbilical arteries and the umbilical than its embryonic counterpart. It includes three vein become fibrotic. The newborn keeps warm by shunts—the ductus venosus, the foramen ovale, and breaking down brown adipose tissue in the process of the ductus arteriosus—that enable it to bypass the nonshivering thermogenesis. The first consumption of semifunctional liver and pulmonary circuit until after breast milk or formula floods the newborn’s sterile childbirth. The brain continues to grow and its
