Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


the nonshivering thermogenesis. The first consumption of semifunctional liver and pulmonary circuit until after breast milk or formula floods the newborn’s sterile childbirth. The brain continues to grow and its gastrointestinal tract with beneficial bacteria that structures differentiate. Facial features develop, the eventually establish themselves as the bacterial flora, body elongates, and the skeleton ossifies. In the which aid in digestion. womb, the developing fetus moves, blinks, practices 28.6Lactation sucking, and circulates amniotic fluid. The fetus grows from an embryo measuring approximately 3.3 cm (1.3 The lactating mother supplies all the hydration and in) and weighing 7 g (0.25 oz) to an infant measuring nutrients that a growing infant needs for the first 4–6 approximately 51 cm (20 in) and weighing an average months of life. During pregnancy, the body prepares for of approximately 3.4 kg (7.5 lbs). Embryonic organ lactation by stimulating the growth and development of structures that were primitive and nonfunctional branching lactiferous ducts and alveoli lined with milk- develop to the point that the newborn can survive in secreting lactocytes, and by creating colostrum. These the outside world. functions are attributable to the actions of several hormones, including prolactin. Following childbirth, 1270 28 • Interactive Link Questions suckling triggers oxytocin release, which stimulates each parent. He articulated the principles of random myoepithelial cells to squeeze milk from alveoli. Breast segregation and independent assortment to account milk then drains toward the nipple pores to be for the inheritance patterns he observed. Mendel’s consumed by the infant. Colostrum, the milk produced factors are genes, with differing variants being referred in the first postpartum days, provides immunoglobulins to as alleles and those alleles being dominant or that increase the newborn’s immune defenses. recessive in expression. Each parent passes one allele Colostrum, transitional milk, and mature breast milk for every gene on to offspring, and offspring are equally are ideally suited to each stage of the newborn’s likely to inherit any combination of allele pairs. When development, and breastfeeding helps the newborn’s Mendel crossed heterozygous individuals, he digestive system expel meconium and clear bilirubin. repeatedly found a 3:1 dominant–recessive ratio. He Mature milk changes from the beginning to the end of a correctly postulated that the expression of the feeding. Foremilk quenches the infant’s thirst, whereas recessive trait was masked in heterozygotes but would hindmilk satisfies the infant’s appetite. resurface in their offspring in a predictable manner. 28.7Patterns of Inheritance
