Anatomy and Physiology
KEYWORDS: body, chemical, human, water, atoms, energy, hydrogen, cells, bonds, blood, electrons, acids, reactions, molecules, elements


b allele from her mother. b. Zoe probably inherited one faulty allele from 25. Alveoli are connected to the lactiferous sinuses by her mother, who must also have cystic ________. fibrosis, and one normal allele from her a. lactocytes father. b. lactiferous ducts c. Zoe must have inherited faulty alleles from c. nipple pores both parents, both of whom must also have d. lobules cystic fibrosis. 26. How is colostrum most important to a newborn? d. Zoe must have inherited faulty alleles from a. It helps boost the newborn’s immune system. both parents, both of whom are carriers. b. It provides much needed fat. c. It satisfies the newborn’s thirst. d. It satisfies the infant’s appetite. Critical Thinking Questions 31. Darcy and Raul are having difficulty conceiving a 32. On Saturday night, a female has unprotected sex child. Darcy ovulates every 28 days, and Raul’s with a male. On Tuesday morning, she experiences sperm count is normal. If we could observe Raul’s the twinge of mid-cycle pain that she typically sperm about an hour after ejaculation, however, feels when she is ovulating. This makes her we’d see that they appear to be moving only extremely anxious that she might soon learn she is sluggishly. When Raul’s sperm eventually pregnant. Is the concern valid? Why or why not? encounter Darcy’s oocyte, they appear to be 33. Approximately 3 weeks after her last menstrual incapable of generating an adequate acrosomal period, a sexually active woman experiences a reaction. Which process has probably gone brief episode of abdominopelvic cramping and wrong? minor bleeding. What might be the explanation? Access for free at openstax.org 28 • Critical Thinking Questions 1273 34. The Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of 38. Janine is 41 weeks pregnant with her first child Medicine recommends that all people who might when she arrives at the birthing unit reporting that become pregnant consume at least 400 µg/day of she believes she has been in labor “for days” but folate from supplements or fortified foods. Why? that “it’s just not going anywhere.” During the 35. What is the physiological benefit of incorporating clinical exam, she experiences a few mild shunts into the fetal circulatory system? contractions, each lasting about 15–20 seconds; 36. Why would a premature infant require however, her cervix is found to be only 2 cm supplemental oxygen? dilated, and the amniotic sac is intact. Janine is
