Growth Hormone in Aging
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, growth hormone, effects, pubmed, aging, treatment, ghrh, body, mass, secretion, increased, studies, older, levels


ABSTRACT Growth hormone (GH) serves important roles in adult life, including maintenance of lean body mass and bone mass, promoting lipolysis, thereby limiting visceral adiposity, and regulating carbohydrate metabolism, cardiovascular system function, aerobic exercise capacity, and cognitive function. Younger adults with growth hormone deficiency (AGHD) exhibit abnormalities in body composition, physical and cognitive function, and quality of life which are reversed by GH replacement therapy. With advancing age GH production declines, paralleled by physical and functional alterations similar to those of AGHD; however, the degree to which the decrease in GH contributes to these age-related changes is unknown. Seemingly in opposition to the theory that the diminished GH secretion of older age is a net detriment are observations that animal models of congenital GH deficiency have remarkably increased life span and humans with congenital GH deficiency may have decreased rates of age-related diseases such as diabetes and cancer. Several short-term studies aiming to increase GH in older adults by a variety of interventions including exercise, administration of GH, or treatment with GH secretagogues have demonstrated consistent effects to improve body composition, yet inconsistent effects on physical and cognitive function. While side effects of GH administration in older adults include edema, arthralgias, and elevated blood glucose, data regarding the possible long-term effects on “hard end points” such as risk of fractures, cancer, cardiovascular disease, life expectancy, and mortality are lacking. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The decline in growth hormone secretion observed with aging is associated with changes in body composition and physical and psychological function that are similar to those seen in younger adult patients with growth hormone deficiency. These changes include reductions in lean body mass and muscle strength and an increase in body fat, particularly in the visceral compartment. Memory and cognitive function gradually deteriorate with age. Deep (slow-wave) sleep also decreases markedly with age, together with a decrease in nighttime growth hormone secretion, and sleep disorders become a significant clinical problem in old age. Although these changes only show an association, and it is still unknown whether there is any causal link between them, they have led to speculation that replacing or stimulating growth hormone may reverse some of the detrimental features of the aging process ( 1 ). AGE-RELATED CHANGES IN GROWTH HORMONE SECRETION The trophic hormones which rise at puberty, including sex
