Growth Hormone in Aging
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, growth hormone, effects, pubmed, aging, treatment, ghrh, body, mass, secretion, increased, studies, older, levels


hormone may reverse some of the detrimental features of the aging process ( 1 ). AGE-RELATED CHANGES IN GROWTH HORMONE SECRETION The trophic hormones which rise at puberty, including sex steroids and GH, have dramatic effects on body composition and strength. Their levels plateau in young adult life and then decline progressively, accompanied by a loss of muscle mass and aerobic capacity, and an increase in abdominal fat. These changes resemble some features of hypogonadism and adult GH deficiency ( 2 ). After the third decade of life, there is a progressive decline of GH secretion by approximately 15% for every decade of adult life. Integrated measurements of daily GH secretion demonstrate that secretion peaks at puberty at about 150 µg/kg day, then decreases to approximately 25 µg/kg/day by age 55 ( 3 ). The reduction in GH secretion results from a marked reduction in GH pulse amplitude, with only very little change in pulse frequency ( 4 ). This process is characterized by lack of day-night GH rhythm resulting from loss of nocturnal sleep-related GH pulses ( Figure 1 ) ( 4 ). Growth Hormone Binding Protein decreases from 60 years of age, theoretically increasing the amount of bioavailable growth hormone ( 5 ). This decrease is thought to parallel the decrease in growth hormone receptors with age. Though slow-wave sleep (SWS) decreases with age most studies administering GH or GHRH to seniors did not improve SWS. This finding suggests that the age-related decline in GH does not cause reduced SWS, although the reverse may be true. FIGURE 1. Patterns of GH secretion in younger and older women and men. There is a marked age-related decline in GH secretion in both sexes and a loss of the nighttime enhancement of GH secretion seen during deep (slow-wave) sleep. This decrease is primarily due to a reduction in GH pulse amplitude, with little change in pulse frequency. L = large GH pulses, S = small GH pulses. From Ho et al. 1987 ( 4 ). Circulating levels of IGF-I, the main mediator for the trophic effects of growth hormone, also decline with age ( Figure 2 ). The majority of circulating IGF-I is produced in the liver under the control of GH. It appears that the age-related decline in IGF-I production is a direct result of decreases in GH and there is no evidence to suggest increased “GH resistance”. In fact,
