Growth Hormone in Aging
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, growth hormone, effects, pubmed, aging, treatment, ghrh, body, mass, secretion, increased, studies, older, levels


GH. It appears that the age-related decline in IGF-I production is a direct result of decreases in GH and there is no evidence to suggest increased “GH resistance”. In fact, studies of GH replacement therapy in patients with pituitary disorders and dose-response studies demonstrate a reduction in GH dose necessary to maintain normal IGF-I concentrations in older subjects, although this is due at least in part to the higher susceptibility to side effects from GH and also that their target IGF-1 is lower ( 6 - 7 ). FIGURE 2. Changes in serum IGF-I with increasing age. Modified from Juul A et al,1994 ( 8 ). POTENTIAL MECHANISMS UNDERLYING THE DECLINE IN GH SECRETION WITH AGE Three hypothalamic factors regulate GH secretion: somatostatin (SRIF), growth-hormone releasing hormone (GHRH) and ghrelin ( 9 ) ( Figure 3 ). Somatostatin is a noncompetitive inhibitor of GH secretion as well as of other hormones. It modulates the GH response to GHRH. GHRH is the principal stimulator for GH synthesis and release. Ghrelin is the endogenous ligand to the growth hormone secretagogue receptor-1a (GHSR-1a). Ghrelin is secreted primarily by the stomach and has appetite-stimulating activity separate from its effect on GH secretion. Although recent preclinical data suggest that not all the effects of ghrelin are mediated through GHSR-1a ( 10 ), its orexigenic and GH secretagogue effects require the presence of the GHSR-1a ( 11 ).Acylated Ghrelin levels decrease with age ( 12 ) Growth hormone secretagogues (GHS) are synthetic molecules that stimulate the GHSR-1a exhibiting strong growth hormone-releasing activity. A variety of stimuli and inhibitors, such as exercise, sleep, food intake, stress and body composition have effects on the hypothalamic factors that regulate GH production ( 13 ). All of these factors interact to generate the physiological patterns of pulsatile GH secretion. FIGURE 3 Major components of the GH neuroregulatory system ( 3 ). There are several mechanisms that could explain the age-related decrease in GH secretion. Possibilities include decreased secretion of GHRH or ghrelin, increase in inhibition by somatostatin, increased sensitivity of somatotrophs to negative feedback inhibition by IGF-I, decline in pituitary responsiveness to GHRH, and pituitary and/or hypothalamic responsiveness to ghrelin. Whether the aging pituitary responds normally to GHRH and ghrelin is still a matter of debate. Although earlier studies suggest no age–related decline in GH responsiveness to GHRH ( 13 ), more recent reports suggest a gender-independent, age-related decline in
