Growth Hormone in Aging
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, growth hormone, effects, pubmed, aging, treatment, ghrh, body, mass, secretion, increased, studies, older, levels


is still a matter of debate. Although earlier studies suggest no age–related decline in GH responsiveness to GHRH ( 13 ), more recent reports suggest a gender-independent, age-related decline in the GH responsiveness to GHRH and ghrelin ( 14 ) ( Figure 4 ).There is no age-related increase in GH sensitivity to IGF-1 ( 15 ); however, there may be relative deficiency in GHRH and ghrelin secretion, and an increase in SRIF secretion, in older individuals ( 16 ). The density of GHRS-1a receptors in the hypothalamus decreases with aging and this is thought to be responsible for the age-related decreased response to some GHS ( 17 ). The aging pituitary is also less responsive to exercise, sleep, and other physiologic stimuli. Based on these observations it is most likely that the age-related change in GH secretion is multifactorial in etiology and is caused by changes above the level of the pituitary. FIGURE 4. Approximate peak GH relative change in response to I.V. bolus of Ghrelin and GHRH is diminished in older adults compared to young males. Adapted from Broglio F et al. ( 14 ). DECREASE IN GH IN NORMAL AGING: SIMILARITIES WITH AND DIFFERENCES FROM ADULT GROWTH HORMONE DEFICIENCY Although not a perfect parallel with aging, adult growth hormone deficiency (AGHD) is the best documented source of information on signs and symptoms of reduced GH secretion, effects of treatment, dosing strategies appropriate for adults, and side effects and safety of GH replacement. Several aspects of normal aging resemble features of the AGHD syndrome, including decrease in muscle and bone mass, increased visceral fat, diminishing exercise and cardiac capacity, atherogenic alterations in lipid profile, thinning of skin, and many psychological and cognitive problems ( 18 - 19 ) ( Table 1 ). Although these changes and the GH deficit of aging are milder than seen in AGHD, they remain clinically significant ( 20 ). Table 1. Features of Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency ( 3 ) View in own window Increased fat mass especially abdominal fat Decreased lean body mass Decreased muscle strength Decreased cardiac capacity Decreased exercise performance Decreased bone mass Decreased RBC volume Atherogenic lipid profile Thin dry skin Impaired sweating Poor venous access Psychosocial problems- ➢ low self-esteem ➢ depression ➢ anxiety ➢ fatigue and listlessness ➢ sleep disturbances ➢ emotional lability and poor self-control ➢ social isolation ➢ poor marital and social-economic performance It is important
