Growth Hormone in Aging
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, growth hormone, effects, pubmed, aging, treatment, ghrh, body, mass, secretion, increased, studies, older, levels


self-esteem ➢ depression ➢ anxiety ➢ fatigue and listlessness ➢ sleep disturbances ➢ emotional lability and poor self-control ➢ social isolation ➢ poor marital and social-economic performance It is important to distinguish the normal decrease in GH secretion associated with aging from true AGHD. Although aging is a state of relative physiologic GH deficiency, it is not a disease in itself and is clearly a separate entity from AGHD. This is demonstrated by higher GH secretion and physiological responses seen in older adults when compared with AGHD patients of similar age ( 2 , 20 ). Moreover, aging per-se is not an indication for AGHD diagnosis testing or administration ( 21 , 22 ). Biochemical tests for AGHD diagnosis are imperfect, and their accuracy is strongly affected by the pre-test probability of the condition. Therefore, the most important indicator of the likelihood of GHD is the clinical context ( 21 ). In the majority of cases this is due to tumors arising in the region of the sella turcica or the treatment for these tumors including surgery and radiation, but there are other etiologies. Traumatic brain injury is an increasingly recognized cause of AGHD and may occur without coexisting deficiencies in other anterior pituitary hormones ( 22 ). IGF-1 levels alone are generally not enough for AGHD diagnosis, hence the need for provocative testing with the insulin tolerance test, glucagon stimulation test, or when available the combined GHRH-arginine test ( 23 ). The GHS and ghrelin mimetic, macimorelin, has recently been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for AGHD diagnosis., Macimorelin provides a simple, orally-available, well-tolerated, reproducible, and safe diagnostic test for AGHD with comparable accuracy to the insulin tolerance test in adults ( 24 ). Since studies of macimorelin excluded individuals over the age of 65 or with a BMI >40, the safety and efficacy of this test in these populations has not been established. CLINICAL CONSEQUENCES OF AGE-RELATED DECREASE IN GH SECRETION The age-related increase in body mass index, changes in body composition, and diminished functional capacity parallel the age-associated decline in growth hormone secretion ( 18 , 19 ). The alterations in body composition that are most pronounced in normal aging include a reduction in bone density and in muscle mass and strength, an increase in body fat, and adverse changes in lipoprotein profiles ( 2 , 16
