Growth Hormone in Aging
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, growth hormone, effects, pubmed, aging, treatment, ghrh, body, mass, secretion, increased, studies, older, levels


in normal aging include a reduction in bone density and in muscle mass and strength, an increase in body fat, and adverse changes in lipoprotein profiles ( 2 , 16 ). This decline in GH production is initially clinically silent, but over time may contribute to sarcopenic obesity and frailty. The decline in GH may also play a role in cognitive changes observed with aging. One of the many systems for classifying different cognitive domains is grouping them as either “crystallized” or “fluid” intelligence. Crystallized intelligence generally refers to vocabulary and long-term memory; whereas the fluid intelligence includes short term memory and active problem-solving and demonstrates a more marked age-related decline. Several studies have shown a correlation between plasma IGF-I concentrations and performance on tests of fluid intelligence ( 25 ), suggesting that GH may play a role in maintenance of fluid intelligence. Mechanistic insights into the role of growth hormone and IGF-I in age-related alterations in cognitive function were assessed in several studies by Sonntag and colleagues demonstrating somatotrophic effects on rodent brain aging ( 26 ). These studies suggest that deficiencies in GH and IGF-I contribute to the functional decline in senescent rats whereas augmentation of GH or IGF-I improved cognitive function, increased glucose utilization throughout the brain, increased cortical vascularity, and ameliorated age-related decline in hippocampal neurogenesis . Although some small studies suggest a positive effect of GHRH or GH replacement on cognition ( 27 ), there is insufficient data to recommend GH deficiency testing or GH treatment solely for this purpose ( 22 ). GROWTH HORMONE IN AGING: CAVEATS REGARDING LONGEVITY Animal studies have called into question the hypothesis that interventions aiming to increase growth hormone secretion and IGF-I should be considered a net benefit ( 28 ). In numerous species from nematodes to rodents, caloric restriction, which lowers IGF-1, has been associated with an increased life span. Mice with growth hormone resistance and profoundly reduced IGF-I levels appear healthy and have increased life expectancy, along with reduced fasting glucose and insulin levels ( 29 , 30 ). In mice with mutations in the gene necessary for the differentiation of pituitary cells to produce GH, life span increases by 42% and tumor development is delayed ( 30 ). These findings are accentuated when combined with caloric restriction, while treatment with GH actually reduces lifespan. Mice treated with a metalloproteinase that cleaves an IGF-binding protein to decrease
