Growth Hormone in Aging
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, growth hormone, effects, pubmed, aging, treatment, ghrh, body, mass, secretion, increased, studies, older, levels


30 ). These findings are accentuated when combined with caloric restriction, while treatment with GH actually reduces lifespan. Mice treated with a metalloproteinase that cleaves an IGF-binding protein to decrease the bioavailability of IGF-1 have a 38% longer lifespan and a lower incidence of tumors. In experiments conducted with a mouse strain prone to developing age-related cognitive decline and decreased life expectancy, treatment with a GHRH-receptor antagonist resulted in increased telomerase activity, improvements in some markers of oxidative stress, improved cognition, and increased mean life expectancy ( 31 ) On the other hand, mice treated with a growth hormone antagonist made by a single amino acid substitution in GH do not show increased lifespan. The mechanism of increased longevity seen in these mice populations is complicated. Some mouse models with increased lifespan have insulin resistance, while those that develop overt diabetes have a shortened lifespan. Long living mice are either leaner than normal or have increased subcutaneous adipose tissue, both of which may have protective aging effects. Caloric restriction and decreased GH/IGF-1 signaling improves resistance to cellular stress, inhibits mTOR by rapamycin, leading to longevity and may be responsible for enhanced tumor resistance. The parallel between these results and human senescence is not clear. This last assertion is underscored by the recent report that longevity is not increased, but rather reduced in women in a Brazilian population with a GHRH receptor mutation ( 32 ) and in a Swiss cohort of patients with isolated GH deficiency from a homozygous mutation spanning the GH1 gene ( 33 ). In an Ecuadorian-kindred with GH receptor deficiency and very low levels of IGF-I, however, rates of cancer and diabetes were markedly reduced compared to unaffected people in the same communities ( 34 ). A group of Croatian patients with dwarfism and deficiencies in GH, TSH, prolactin, FSH, and LH as a result of a homozygous PROP1 mutation do not die prematurely, do not develop diabetes mellitus, and have delayed appearance of grey hair ( 30 ). Ultimately, although size and lifespan appear to have an inverse relationship in some animal studies, no formal longevity studies have been performed in humans with dwarfism. GROWTH HORMONE THERAPY IN NORMAL AGING A large literature of over 2000 published papers has led to a general consensus that GH replacement can reverse many abnormalities in AGHD patients. Recent reviews of this literature report reduced fat mass, increased lean
