Growth Hormone in Aging
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, growth hormone, effects, pubmed, aging, treatment, ghrh, body, mass, secretion, increased, studies, older, levels


2000 published papers has led to a general consensus that GH replacement can reverse many abnormalities in AGHD patients. Recent reviews of this literature report reduced fat mass, increased lean body mass, improved exercise capacity and cardiac function, improved bone mineral density, and enhanced quality of life by subjective and objective measures ( 35 - 37 ). The similarities between aging and adult GH deficiency, while not exact, have led to interest in administering GH directly or stimulating GH secretion in aging individuals. However, the starting point and the target are not the same in the two conditions, and we cannot assume safety and efficacy will be the same. To date, studies of interventions to increase GH effect in elderly subjects include administration of GH, IGF-I, GHRH, and ghrelin mimetic (GHS) either alone or in combination with each other, sex steroids, or exercise. The first studies of GH treatment in non-GHD older adults were performed not long after its effects in AGHD were demonstrated. In 1990 Rudman and colleagues reported that healthy men above the age of 60 who were treated with GH for 6 months responded with an 8.8% increase in lean body mass, a 14.4% decrease in adipose tissue mass, and a 1.6% increase bone mineral density (BMD) only at the vertebral spine ( 38 ). Although the change in BMD was quite small it was especially remarkable considering that most studies of AGHD have required one year or more of therapy to show an improvement in bone density. The changes in body composition persisted after one year of growth hormone treatment ( 39 ). Although the Rudman study did not include any functional measures, given these results, it was postulated that GH treatment might also improve muscle strength and functional performance. Despite an absence of demonstrated functional efficacy, some clinics began to prescribe GH treatment to healthy older persons. Acknowledging this growing practice and the lack of information on the subject, the NIH National Institute on Aging issued a call for applications in 1991 to study trophic factors in aging. Several studies of GH, either alone or in combination with sex steroids, IGF-I, or exercise conditioning, and one study of GHRH were funded and have since been completed. These reports generally demonstrate that GH replacement in normal seniors can increase levels of IGF-I to the young adult normal range. However, lower doses of GH were used in
