Growth Hormone in Aging
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, growth hormone, effects, pubmed, aging, treatment, ghrh, body, mass, secretion, increased, studies, older, levels


completed. These reports generally demonstrate that GH replacement in normal seniors can increase levels of IGF-I to the young adult normal range. However, lower doses of GH were used in subsequent studies to maintain IGF-I levels in the normal range for healthy young adults, since attempts to reproduce the doses of the initial study of Rudman and colleagues led to severe side effects. Following is a summary of the findings of these studies. Effects of GH Treatment on Strength and Functional Performance Though GH treatment of otherwise healthy seniors has been shown to have potentially beneficial effects on body composition, studies of physical functional effects have been generally disappointing and inconsistent. In a relatively large study, comparing the effects of 6 months of growth hormone treatment with placebo in men aged 70 to 85, Papadakis and colleagues reported a 13% reduction in fat mass and a 4% increase in lean body mass in the treatment group, effects consistent with earlier studies; however, there was no effect of growth hormone on knee or handgrip strength or endurance ( 40 ). It is important to point out that this seemingly negative result is likely undercut and confounded by the excellent baseline functional status of the study subjects, who were close to the top of the range on many of the tests used, even before treatment. It is very likely that such a "ceiling effect" led to difficulties in demonstrating further improvements due to treatment with growth hormone. In a separate study, Taaffe and co-workers showed that exercise training improved strength and exercise capacity, but growth hormone treatment did not further augment this effect ( 41 ). Several other similar studies have since been completed ( 42 ). These studies were conducted for 6–12 months, each at a single site; therefore, only short-term outcomes and side effects, not long-term risks, could be observed. Their results do not provide guidance on the effects of GH on long-term clinical outcomes or “hard” endpoints such as falls or fractures, maintenance of functional status, or effects on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality – outcomes that could establish more definitively the rationale for GH treatment in normal aging. Though few long-term risks have been observed, this is mainly indicative of an absence of information rather than a demonstration of safety. In 2004 a review of various interventions for sarcopenia and muscle weakness in the elderly concluded that GH therapy
