Growth Hormone in Aging
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, growth hormone, effects, pubmed, aging, treatment, ghrh, body, mass, secretion, increased, studies, older, levels


of an absence of information rather than a demonstration of safety. In 2004 a review of various interventions for sarcopenia and muscle weakness in the elderly concluded that GH therapy produces a high incidence of side-effects, does not increase strength, and that resistance training is the most effective intervention for increasing muscle mass and strength in the elderly ( 43 ). In 2007 Liu and colleagues published a systematic review of the safety and efficacy of growth hormone in the healthy elderly ( 42 ). After a mean treatment duration of 27 weeks, GH treated individuals had decrease in fat mass of 2.1 kg and an equal increase in lean body mass of 2.1 kg, with no change in weight overall. Total cholesterol levels trended downward (0.29 mmol/L), though not significantly after adjustment for the change in body composition. Other outcomes, including bone density and other serum lipid levels, did not change. Despite higher doses of GH per kilogram of body weight, women treated with GH did not increase lean body mass and achieved only borderline significant decreases in fat mass, indicating a difference in response to GH therapy between genders. Persons treated with GH were significantly more likely to experience soft tissue edema, arthralgias, carpal tunnel syndrome, and gynecomastia and were somewhat more likely to experience the onset of diabetes mellitus and impaired fasting glucose ( Figure 5 ). Figure 5. Adverse events in participants treated with growth hormone versus those not treated. From Liu H et al. ( 42 ) Effects of GH Treatment on Cognition, Sleep, and Mood As noted above, rodent studies have shown that GH administration increases brain vascularity and improves performance on some cognitive tests, but systematic tests of cognitive effects of GH treatment in humans are lacking ( 44 ). A seemingly contradictory finding was reported in 2017 by Basu and colleagues who demonstrated that spatial learning and memory were improved in 12-month-old GH receptor antagonist transgenic mice when compared to their wild type controls, proposing that GH antagonism as well may have cognitive benefits in aging rodents ( 45 ). A trial of GH therapy in patients with Down syndrome showed an increase in head circumference but no effect on cognitive performance ( 46 ). Early reports suggested that GH increased deep sleep (SWS), but subsequent studies have failed to confirm this and indeed have found increased sleep fragmentation and reduced total
