Growth Hormone in Aging
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, growth hormone, effects, pubmed, aging, treatment, ghrh, body, mass, secretion, increased, studies, older, levels


( 46 ). Early reports suggested that GH increased deep sleep (SWS), but subsequent studies have failed to confirm this and indeed have found increased sleep fragmentation and reduced total deep sleep ( 27 ). While GH treatment of adult GH deficiency improves self-rated quality of life (QoL) scores using any of a number of questionnaires, there are no solid comparable data for normal aging. Combination Interventions with GH and Sex Steroids In a 6-month study of healthy men and women over the age of 65 using GH alone or in combination with estrogen/progestin in women and testosterone in men, GH administration increased lean body mass (LBM) in women with or without estrogen/progestin ( 47 ). In men, GH and testosterone increased LBM when given alone and had an additive effect in combination. In men, total fat mass decreased with either testosterone or GH alone, but the decrease was greatest with the combination, whereas in women GH decreased fat mass while sex steroids did not change fat mass. Body strength did not improve in women and slightly increased in men only in the GH + testosterone arm of the trial. There was no evidence that co-administration of sex steroids altered the frequency or severity of GH-related side effects. A 2006 British study randomized healthy older men to 6 months treatment with GH, testosterone patch (Te), or combination of both GH and testosterone (GHTe) and compared results to placebo ( 48 ). Both GH treated groups experienced similar increases in lean body mass, while this parameter was unchanged by testosterone treatment alone. Fat mass decreased only in the GH/testosterone combination group. Similarly, mid-thigh muscle cross-sectional area and exercise capacity (VO2 max) was increased only in GHTe and not in the GH or Te groups. There was no difference among the groups in 5 of 6 muscle strength measures except for strength of knee flexion that was found to be increased in the GHTe group. Both GH treated groups reported improvement in a quality of life questionnaire. Overall GH treatment was well tolerated in this study, with most GH-related side effects resolving with dose adjustment. A study published in 2009 randomized men over the age of 65 having IGF-I levels in the bottom tertile of the reference range, and who were treated with testosterone after a “Leydig cell clamp”, to three groups of daily doses of GH either 0, 5 mcg/kg or
