Growth Hormone in Aging
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, growth hormone, effects, pubmed, aging, treatment, ghrh, body, mass, secretion, increased, studies, older, levels


bottom tertile of the reference range, and who were treated with testosterone after a “Leydig cell clamp”, to three groups of daily doses of GH either 0, 5 mcg/kg or 10 mcg/kg ( 49 ). After 16 weeks the investigators were able to demonstrate significant synergistic effects of GH treatment, when added to testosterone replacement, on all parameters studied including decrease in total fat mass and truncal fat as well as increase in lean body mass and maximal voluntary muscle strength and aerobic endurance. A slight increase in systolic blood pressure was noted in the study, but did not appear to be related to GH therapy. Growth Hormone and Exercise Regular exercise has been shown to increase lean body mass, muscle strength, and aerobic capacity in older men ( 50 ). Vigorous exercise acutely stimulates growth hormone secretion, a physiologic response that has been utilized as a screening test for growth hormone deficiency in children. The growth hormone response to exercise decreases with aging ( 51 ). This finding led to speculation that some of the effects of exercise might be mediated via effects on growth hormone and IGF-I. Although exercise stimulates an acute rise in growth hormone secretion, subsequent overnight growth hormone secretion is inhibited ( 52 ). In older adults, even intensive exercise does not elevate serum IGF-I level ( 53 ). Therefore, the effects of exercise on muscle mass and function seem to be separate from those of growth hormone. Studies assessing the effects of adding GH to progressive resistance training regimens in older adults have found little to no additional benefit of GH therapy on measures of muscle strength or other measures of muscle composition, but did find that GH therapy led to greater reductions in fat mass than resistance training alone ( 41 , 54 , 55 ). Adverse Effects of GH Treatment Side effects observed during clinical trials of growth hormone treatment in normal aging must be taken into consideration in a different way from those in patients treated for adult growth hormone deficiency. The possibility that some of the hormonal changes observed with aging could represent adaptive responses must be considered. Whether increasing growth hormone above the age-appropriate normal range may have as many risks, both acute and delayed, as benefits is a worthwhile hypothesis to examine. The acute side effects of growth hormone are largely hormonal. The most worrisome long-term potential side
