Growth Hormone in Aging
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, growth hormone, effects, pubmed, aging, treatment, ghrh, body, mass, secretion, increased, studies, older, levels


many risks, both acute and delayed, as benefits is a worthwhile hypothesis to examine. The acute side effects of growth hormone are largely hormonal. The most worrisome long-term potential side effect, of special importance in the older population where baseline risk is elevated, is the risk of cancer. Though there is no definitive evidence that GH replacement in AGHD increases the risk of de novo or recurrent malignancy, but several case reports note development of cancer after treatment with GH and because it is a mitogen, the use of GH is contraindicated in active malignancy ( 35 , 36 ). Nevertheless, GH replacement is not associated with tumor regrowth in AGHD patients with pituitary tumors ( 56 ). Older persons are more sensitive to replacement with GH and more susceptible to the side effects of therapy. The acute side effects are due to the hormonal effects of over-replacement, which can be avoided or relieved with careful dose titration. Patients who are older, heavier, or female are more prone to develop complications ( 22 ). Common side effects of GH replacement include fluid retention, with peripheral edema, arthralgia, and carpal tunnel syndrome ( Figure 5 ) Although glucose levels often increase with initiation of GH, these levels generally return toward normal with the improvement in body composition and reduced insulin resistance. However, some studies report persistent elevations in fasting glucose and insulin with chronic GH treatment. Other less frequently reported side effects include headache, tinnitus, and benign intracranial hypertension ( 22 ). Hypothyroidism is common in the elderly. GH can accelerate both the clearance of thyroxine and promote its conversion to triiodothyronine, and therefore may have variable effects in hypothyroid patients who are on thyroid hormone replacement. GROWTH HORMONE RELEASING HORMONE (GHRH) AND GROWTH HORMONE SECRETAGOGUES (GHS) GHRH and GHS stimulate the secretion of GH. Since most AGHD is caused by pituitary lesions, and these patients, unlike healthy seniors, are unresponsive to GHRH or GHS, there are few studies of treatment with these agents. Theoretically, treatment with GHRH or GHS should lead to more physiologic GH replacement, leading to a pulsatile rather than prolonged elevation in GH and preserving the ability for negative feedback inhibition of GH by increasing IGF-I. GHRH and GHS effects are influenced by the same factors which modulate endogenous GHRH secretion, such as negative feedback by somatostatin. This normal negative feedback regulation would be expected to result
