Growth Hormone in Aging
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, growth hormone, effects, pubmed, aging, treatment, ghrh, body, mass, secretion, increased, studies, older, levels


and GHS effects are influenced by the same factors which modulate endogenous GHRH secretion, such as negative feedback by somatostatin. This normal negative feedback regulation would be expected to result in buffering against overdose. The side effects of GHRH treatment are similar in character to GH treatment but are milder and less frequent. Since the GHS are smaller molecules than GH, and generally resistant to digestive enzymes, they can be administered via the oral, transdermal or nasal routes. Growth Hormone Releasing Hormone (GHRH) There are several published trials of GHRH treatment in normal aging ( 57 , 58 ). Once daily GHRH injections can stimulate increases in GH and IGF-I at least to the lower part of the young adult normal range ( 57 ). In a study of 6 months treatment with daily bedtime subcutaneous injections of GHRH(1–29)NH2, alone or in combination with formal exercise conditioning, IGF-I levels increased by 35% ( 56 ). Participants had an increase in lean body mass and decrease in body fat (mainly abdominal visceral fat). However, there was no improvement in strength or aerobic fitness with GHRH injections. This study confirmed the benefits of exercise but showed no effect upon IGF-I levels; thus, it appears that GH/GHRH and exercise work through different mechanisms. Subjects receiving GHRH also showed no change in scores on an integrated physical functional performance test of activities of daily living, but there was a significant decline in physical function in the placebo group. This finding, suggesting that GHRH can stabilize if not improve physical function, needs confirmation. Sleep and cognition were also studied in this GHRH trial, with unexpected results. GHRH failed to improve and may even have impaired deep sleep, despite the rise in IGF-I and pulsatile GH. However, GHRH treatment was associated with improved scores in several domains of fluid (but not crystallized) intelligence – those measures previously found to be correlated with circulating IGF-I levels ( 25 ). A 2006 study of the effects of 6-months daily treatment with sermorelin acetate, a GHRH analogue, on cognitive function of 89 elderly adults found significant improvement on several cognitive assessments, particularly those involving problem solving, psychomotor processing speed, and working memory, but no change on tests reflecting crystallized intelligence ( 27 ). Higher GH levels were associated with higher Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale performance IQ scores, and greater increases in IGF-1 were associated with higher verbal fluency test
