Growth Hormone in Aging
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, growth hormone, effects, pubmed, aging, treatment, ghrh, body, mass, secretion, increased, studies, older, levels


intelligence ( 27 ). Higher GH levels were associated with higher Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale performance IQ scores, and greater increases in IGF-1 were associated with higher verbal fluency test scores, while gender, estrogen status, and initial cognitive function did not interact with the GHRH effect on cognition. A 2013 pilot study of 30 elderly adults given a stabilized analogue of GHRH, tesamorelin, versus placebo, used magnetic resonance spectroscopy to examine the effects of inhibitory and excitatory neurotransmitters ( 60 ). After 20 weeks GABA levels were increased in all brain regions, N-acetylaspartylglutamate levels were increased in the dorsolateral frontal cortex, and myo-inositol (an osmolyte linked to Alzheimer disease) levels were decreased in the posterior cingulate, with similar results across adults with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and those with normal cognitive function. Treatment related changes in serum IGF-1 were positively correlated with changes in GABA and negatively correlated with myo-inositol. There was a favorable treatment effect on cognition (p = .03), but no significant associations were observed between treatment-related changes in neurochemical and cognitive outcomes. The follow-up study of 152 elderly patients on tesamorelin versus placebo included those with amnestic MCI (early stage Alzheimer’s disease) and analyzed executive function, episodic memory, mood, sleep, insulin sensitivity, glucose tolerance, body composition, and IGF-1 levels ( 61 ). GHRH had a favorable effect on cognition (P = .002) in both groups. Treatment related increases in IGF-I were associated with higher composite change scores in executive function (p = .03). Visual memory, mood, sleep, hemoglobin A1c, and 2-hour OGTT glucose and insulin responses were not affected in either population, though GHRH treatment was associated with increased fasting plasma insulin levels in adults with MCI. Treatment with GHRH reduced body fat by 7.4% (p < .001) and increased lean muscle mass by 3.7% (p < .001), across both populations. Ultimately though, the clinical significance of these results cannot be assessed as no data was collected regarding functional status. In a non-controlled 3-month trial of GHRH(1-44)amide in 10 postmenopausal women, increases in both GH and IGF-I levels as well as decreased visceral fat were demonstrated ( 57 ). This study also reported improvements from baseline in selected measures of functional performance including timed walking and stair climbing. Thus, as is the case with GH, studies of treatment of healthy seniors with GHRH have arrived at a consensus on hormonal and body composition effects but inconsistent functional
