Growth Hormone in Aging
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, growth hormone, effects, pubmed, aging, treatment, ghrh, body, mass, secretion, increased, studies, older, levels


climbing. Thus, as is the case with GH, studies of treatment of healthy seniors with GHRH have arrived at a consensus on hormonal and body composition effects but inconsistent functional effects. There is a very encouraging but still unconfirmed positive effect on some domains of fluid intelligence. Ghrelin Mimetics and Growth Hormone Secretagogues (GHS) Ghrelin, a 28 amino-acid octanoylated peptide, is produced in the stomach and increases before meals and during overnight fasting. Ghrelin acts at both hypothalamic and pituitary levels via mechanisms distinct from GHRH. Ghrelin therefore has different effects from GHRH or GH; subjects often gain body weight, lean and fat mass via a number of GH dependent and independent mechanisms ( 62 ). The effects of ghrelin on GH secretion depend in part on the presence of GHRH. If GHRH secretion declines with aging, as is thought to be the case, ghrelin’s effects may be blunted. While the effects of these two GHS differ clinically, they have synergistic effects on GH release, and therefore supplementation of both substances may be more effective than either alone. Nevertheless, ghrelin is more potent than GHRH at eliciting GH secretion ( 14 ). Additionally, there are other substances which can enhance GH response to GHS by suppressing somatostatin secretion, including arginine and beta-adrenergic antagonists, which could potentially enhance treatment effects ( 59 ). Several studies have shown short-term effects of GHS on GH secretion, but few studies of their chronic effects in normal aging have been reported. Bowers and colleagues showed that chronic repeated injections or subcutaneous infusions of GH-releasing peptide-2 (GHRP-2) could stimulate and maintain increases in episodic GH secretion and raise IGF-I levels ( 63 ). Results of a one-year double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, modified-crossover clinical trial of the Merck orally active ghrelin mimetic MK-677 in healthy high functioning older adults were published in 2008 ( 64 ). Daily administration of MK-677 significantly increased growth hormone and IGF-I levels to those of healthy young adults without serious adverse effects. Mean fat-free mass decreased in the placebo group but increased in the MK-677 group. No significant differences were observed in abdominal visceral fat or total fat mass. Body weight increased 0.8 kg in the placebo group and 2.7 kg in the MK-677 group (P = 0.003). Fasting blood glucose level increased an average of 0.3 mmol/L (5 mg/dL) in the MK-677 group (P = 0.015), and insulin sensitivity decreased. The most
