Growth Hormone in Aging
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, growth hormone, effects, pubmed, aging, treatment, ghrh, body, mass, secretion, increased, studies, older, levels


outcomes between the two trials are not clear, but it is speculated that this may reflect differences in the populations studied. The MK-677 study recruited a robustly healthy population of seniors in whom further improvement in physical function might be difficult to achieve, while the capromorelin trial was limited to participants already manifesting a decline in function. Thus, as with GH and GHRH, reports of the hormonal and body composition effects of ghrelin mimetic GHS in normal aging are relatively consistent, but there is no consensus on functional effects among these very few studies, and of course none could assess long-term clinical outcomes or risks. The novel GHS, anamorelin, is currently under clinical development for cancer anorexia and cachexia syndrome (CACS), a syndrome overrepresented in the elderly. In a phase II randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 3 days of treatment increased body weight and appetite in these patients when compared to placebo ( 66 ). Over 3 months of treatment, anamorelin increased body weight, LBM, hand grip strength, and quality of life (QOL). Anamorelin also increased IGF-1 and IGF binding protein (IGFBP)-3. It was well-tolerated, but it induced a small increase in glucose and insulin concentrations ( 67 ). Unfortunately, two large, international, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase III studies in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer and CACS (ROMANA 1 and 2) did not show improvements in handgrip strength with anamorelin, in spite of increased LBM, fat mass, body weight and appetite-related QoL compared to placebo ( 68 ). Although these studies were not restricted to the elderly, the mean age of the population was above 60 years of age in all studies. CONCLUSIONS While aging is not a disease, it results in alterations in body composition and functional decline with subsequent frailty and loss of independence. Interventions that slow this decline could potentially prolong the capacity for independent living and improve quality of life, but this has not yet been demonstrated. It is unknown whether the decrease in trophic hormones including sex steroids and growth hormone that occur with aging represents an adaptive or pathological process. Aging may represent a milder form of adult GHD, and since GH replacement in frank AGHD has met with success, it may be logical to reason that GH replacement or stimulation by GHRH or GHS might be beneficial in aging. However, older persons are more sensitive to GH, and thus more susceptible to
