Denkingeretal.BMCInfectiousDiseases2014,14:477
KEYWORDS: adult, eptb, pediatric, mortality, pulmonary, reduction, diagnostic, children, test, naat, sputum, transmission, reduction reduction, naat-eptb, year


evaluate the comparative effectiveness of such differ- approach could be an “optimized” Xpert or other nucleic ent diagnostic approaches for EPTB and pediatric TB and acid amplification test (NAAT) capable of detecting evaluate them against a current baseline scenario with M. tuberculosis with higher sensitivity in specimens other smear microscopy and alternatively with Xpert for adult sample processing and DNA extraction. Another approach structedadynamicepidemicmodelofTBinageneralizable targeting the diagnosis of pulmonary TB in children and population, estimating ten-year EPTB and childhood TB others who cannot produce good sputum, might be an incidenceandmortalityiffourhypotheticalbutemblematic improved non-sputum based assay (possibly optimized testsforEPTBandpediatricTBcouldbeimplemented. Xpert or other NAAT) using more easily accessible specimens (e.g. nasopharyngeal samples) . Methods A third approach to improving the control of pediatric Modelstructure and EPTB is to develop more deployable tests for adult Webuiltacompartmentalmodelusingordinarydifferential pulmonary TB, reasoning that children and immuno- equations to describe a mature tuberculosis epidemic in a compromised individuals are at highest risk of developing stable, homogeneouslymixing population structured by age active TB from recent transmission, and diagnosis and andHIVstatus.Figure1describesthebasicstructureofthe treatmentstrategiescapableofreducingTBtransmissionin model; a more detailed description is found in the supple- a community might have important indirect effects on ment.Giventhatthehypotheticalassaysweevaluateshould pediatric and extrapulmonary TB . The ideal assay, have impact across the epidemiological contexts of greatest however, would be a test with improved diagnosis for TB burden, we modeled a paradigmatic population with an pulmonary TB, “sputum scarce” TB, and EPTB in adults incidence of drug-susceptible (181/100,000 per year) and and children alike using clinical specimens other than drug-resistant TB (2.1% MDR among new cases) and an sputum (e.g., blood or urine) on a deployable (able to be HIVprevalencesimilartothatofIndia(0.3%).Weused rolled out at microscopy center level) and sensitive data from WorldHealthOrganization(WHO) notifications platformlinkedtorapidtreatmentinitiation. and other published literature to inform parameters in our Figure1Studyflowdiagram.Dashedboxescontainsubjectsthatareinfectious.Thecompartmentsarealsodefinedbytheindividual’sage, HIVstatus,thetypeoftuberculosis(TB–pulmonaryorextrapulmonary)andbytheTBdrugsusceptibilitypattern(sensitive,isoniazid[INH]-monoresistant, multidrug-resistant[MDR],andextensively-drugresistant[XDR]);thesedelineationsarenotshowninthediagramforsimplicity. Denkingeretal.BMCInfectiousDiseases2014,14:477 Page3of10 model (Table 1) . In order to optimize the benefit of is EPTB. In the adult population, we assume TB-NSP tests for pediatric TB relative to those for adult pulmonary constitutesabout18%inHIV-uninfectedadultsand35%in TB, we made liberal assumptions about the percentage of HIV-infectedadults(Table1). TB that occurs in children (taking into account the likely substantialunderreportingofpediatricTB)[19-29]. Modelcalibration Our primary modeling aim was to assess the maximum We first established a baseline “year zero”, modeled as a potential impact of a test that has enhanced capacity to scenariorepresentativeofthecurrentTBepidemicinIndia diagnose clinical manifestations of TB that are not readily . We initiated the model at steady state 65 years prior
