Wolff-Parkinson-White Syndrome (WPW Syndrome)
KEYWORDS: tachycardia, accessory, syndrome, qrs, wpw, wpw syndrome, ventricular, connection, reentrant, accessory connection, atrioventricular, fibrillation, atrial, complex, qrs complex


Classic (manifest) Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome is due to an accessory atrioventricular connection that produces a prototypical ECG consisting of a short PR interval, a wide QRS complex with an initial slurred component (delta wave), and secondary repolarization changes in association with symptomatic reentrant (paroxysmal) supraventricular tachycardia. Reentrant (paroxysmal) supraventricular tachycarida produces sudden episodes of palpitations that begin and terminate abruptly; some patients have dyspnea or chest discomfort. The accessory atrioventricular (AV) connection can facilitate very rapid ventricular response rates to any fast supraventricular arrhythmia, especially atrial fibrillation in which ultrafast ventricular response rates may initiate ventricular fibrillation and sudden death. Diagnosis is clinical and by electrocardiography. Initial treatment of reentrant (paroxysmal) supraventricular tachycardia is usually with vagotonic maneuvers. If these maneuvers are ineffective, treatment is with IV adenosine or nondihydropyridine calcium channel blockers for regular narrow QRS rhythms or for regular wide QRS rhythms known to be a reentrant SVT with aberrant conduction. Procainamide or amiodarone are effective for irregular or other wide QRS rhythms. Synchronized cardioversion can be done when medications are ineffective or there is hemodynamic instability. (See also Overview of Arrhythmias and Atrioventricular Reentrant Tachycardia.) Pathophysiology of WPW Syndrome An accessory pathway connecting an atrium and a ventricle is the substrate for the Wolff-Parkinson- White syndrome. When the accessory AV connection conducts in the antegrade direction, the AV nodal delay is bypassed and a portion of ventricular myocardium is activated before the rest is activated by the normal conduction system. This ventricular pre-excitation produces a short PR interval (< 0.12 seconds), a wide QRS complex (≥ 0.12 seconds) with an initial slurred component (the delta wave) which, along with symptoms of paroxysmal tachycardia, define the classic (manifest) Wolff-Parkinson-White 1/7 syndrome (1). Classic (manifest) Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome occurs in about 1 to 3/1000 people ([2] sampled in Canadian men). Depending on the orientation of the delta wave, a pseudoinfarction pattern Q-wave may be present. Because the early depolarized parts of the ventricle also repolarize early, the T-wave vector may be abnormal. If the accessory AV connection can conduct in the retrograde direction, it can support a form of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia called orthodromic atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia. The accessory AV connection tends to have a longer refractory period at baseline heart rates than the AV node. At a premature atrial depolarization coupling interval less than the refractory period of the accessory AV pathway, but longer than the refractory period of the
