Wolff-Parkinson-White Syndrome (WPW Syndrome)
KEYWORDS: tachycardia, accessory, syndrome, qrs, wpw, wpw syndrome, ventricular, connection, reentrant, accessory connection, atrioventricular, fibrillation, atrial, complex, qrs complex


risk of rapidly conducted supraventricular arrhythmias. WPW syndrome is mainly idiopathic, although it is more common among patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, transposition of the great vessels, or Epstein's anomaly. Classic Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) Pattern Leads I, II, III, V through V show classic features of WPW syndrome, with a short PR interval 3 6 and a delta wave during sinus rhythm. Symptoms and Signs of WPW Syndrome Most patients present with symptoms of atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia during young adulthood or middle age. They typically have episodes of sudden-onset, sudden-offset, rapid, regular palpitations often associated with symptoms of hemodynamic compromise (eg, dyspnea, chest discomfort, light- headedness). Attacks may last only a few seconds or persist for several hours (rarely, > 12 hours). Syncope is uncommon but may occur. Infants present with episodic breathlessness, lethargy, feeding problems, or rapid precordial pulsations. If the episode of tachycardia is protracted, infants may present with heart failure. Patients with WPW syndrome may also experience rapidly conducted supraventricular arrhythmias such as 1:1 conduction of atrial flutter or rapidly conducted atrial fibrillation wherein symptoms of hemodynamic compromise, including syncope are more common. Rapidly conducted atrial fibrillation may also induce ventricular fibrillation and sudden death. This risk is low (approximately 1%) but is more likely to occur in adolescence. Between episodes of arrhythmia, examination is normal. Diagnosis of WPW Syndrome Electrocardiography (ECG) Diagnosis of WPW syndrome is by ECG showing a short PR interval (< 0.12 seconds), a wide QRS complex (≥ 0.12 seconds) with an initial slurred component (the delta wave), and secondary ST and T wave changes (see figure Classic Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) Pattern) (1). During the most common arrhythmia in WPW syndrome, orthodromic atrioventricular tachycardia, the ECG shows a rapid (120 to 250 beats/minute), regular, tachycardia. The QRS complex is usually narrow but may be wide (≥ 0.12 seconds) with coexistent bundle branch block. If found, the P-wave is in the first half of the RR interval (a short RP tachycardia), often in the ST segment or early T-wave, and is negative in the inferior leads (II, III, AVF) (see figure Narrow QRS Tachycardia: Orthodromic Atrioventricular Reentrant Tachycardia Using an Accessory AV Connection in Wolff-Parkinson-White Syndrome). During antidromic atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia, the ECG shows a rapid (120 to 250 beats/minute), regular tachycardia. The QRS complex is wide (≥ 0.12 seconds) due to total ventricular preexcitation. When the accessory AV connection functions as a bystander conducting a supraventricular
