Wolff-Parkinson-White Syndrome (WPW Syndrome)
KEYWORDS: tachycardia, accessory, syndrome, qrs, wpw, wpw syndrome, ventricular, connection, reentrant, accessory connection, atrioventricular, fibrillation, atrial, complex, qrs complex


to 250 beats/minute), regular tachycardia. The QRS complex is wide (≥ 0.12 seconds) due to total ventricular preexcitation. When the accessory AV connection functions as a bystander conducting a supraventricular arrhythmia, the QRS complexes may show total ventricular preexcitation, intermittent total preexcitation mingled with normally conducted narrow QRS complexes, and/or variable degrees of fusion QRS complexes between the QRS complexes of total ventricular preexcitation and those of normal conduction. Conduction of atrial fibrillation via the accessory AV connection in WPW syndrome can be very dangerous if antegrade conduction is very fast. Clues to the presence of pre-excited atrial fibrillation include a very rapid, dominantly wide QRS complex arrhythmia with the occasional occurrence of a narrow QRS complex that is not the result of a long proceeding RR interval. The QRS complex morphology may vary, but all QRS complexes are a fusion of that of the widest QRS complex and that of a normal narrow QRS complex. In pre-excited atrial fibrillation, the normal rate-limiting effects of the AV node are bypassed, and the resultant excessive ventricular rates (sometimes 200 to 300 beats/minutes) may lead to ventricular fibrillation (2). Risk factors for ventricular fibrillation in WPW syndrome include younger age, exercise, prior tachyarrhythmias, multiple accessory AV connections, presence of negative dromotropic medications (especially digitalis),and minimum RR interval during pre-excited atrial fibrillation ≤ 0.25 seconds (2). The estimated risk of developing atrial fibrillation in patients with WPW syndrome is 1.5%/year and that of sudden death is 0.1%/year (3). Treatment of WPW Syndrome Acute: treatment of the presenting arrhythmia Long-term: chronic antiarrhythmic therapy for arrhythmia prevention or ablation of the accessory AV connection Acute When a patient with WPW syndrome presents with a rapid, regular, narrow QRS complex tachycardia, the mechanism of the tachycardia is almost always orthodromic atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia and may be treated as any other regular, narrow QRS complex tachycardia (see Reentrant (Paroxysmal) Supraventricular Tachycardia (PSVT) ). Vagal maneuvers are attempted first. If the patient is hemodynamically unstable or unresponsive to other medical therapies, synchronized DC cardioversion is used. For hemodynamically stable patients, IV adenosine is preferred. If unresponsive to IV adenosine, United States guidelines recommend a class IIb such as an IV beta blocker, IV diltiazem, or IV verapamil (1). This class IIb recommendation in patients with known WPW syndrome (rather than the class IIa recommendation in the setting of other causes of PSVT) recognizes the rare possibility that the
