Wolff-Parkinson-White Syndrome (WPW Syndrome)
KEYWORDS: tachycardia, accessory, syndrome, qrs, wpw, wpw syndrome, ventricular, connection, reentrant, accessory connection, atrioventricular, fibrillation, atrial, complex, qrs complex


This class IIb recommendation in patients with known WPW syndrome (rather than the class IIa recommendation in the setting of other causes of PSVT) recognizes the rare possibility that the PSVT will terminate to pre-excited atrial fibrillation with a more rapid ventricular response rate because of the presence of one of these medications. Alternatively, synchronized DC cardioversion is performed. When a patient with WPW syndrome presents with a rapid, regular, wide QRS complex tachycardia the possibilities include orthodromic atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia with bundle branch block, antidromic atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia, dual accessory connection atrioventricular tachycardia, accessory AV connection of another supraventricular arrhythmia (atrial tachycardia, atrial flutter, or atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia), or ventricular tachycardia. Synchronized cardioversion is used if hemodynamic instability is present. If stable and vagal maneuvers are unsuccessful, therapy with IV procainamide, IV amiodarone, or synchronized cardioversion is recommended (1). When a patient with classic (manifest) WPW syndrome presents with atrial fibrillation, at least some of the QRS complexes are expected to show ventricular pre-excitation. When most or all of the QRS complexes show ventricular pre-excitation, the ventricular response rate may be very fast. If hemodynamically unstable, synchronized DC cardioversion is used. If hemodynamically stable, IV ibutilide, IV procainamide, or synchronized DC cardioversion is recommended (1). Long-term Long-term therapy of patients who have had a documented WPW syndrome-related tachyarrhythmia (or symptoms highly suggestive thereof) is with catheter ablation of the accessory AV connection(s) (1). A meta-analysis of ablation in WPW syndrome reports a success rate of 94%, a recurrence rate of 6% (usually treated by re-ablation), and a procedure-related complication rate of 1% (2). If ablation cannot be performed or if the patient declines ablation, medical therapy may be accomplished with almost any oral antiarrhythmic medication other than digoxin. Class IIa recommendations are given for oral flecainide or oral propafenone in the absence of a structural heart disorder (1). Class IIb recommendations are given for oral dofetilide, oral sotalol, and oral amiodarone (1). Although a class IIb recommendation is given for oral beta blockers (especially useful if symptoms occur with exercise), oral diltiazem, or oral verapamil, there is a small possibility that these mediations could be harmful should atrial fibrillation ever occur. Key Points Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome is characterized by a short PR interval, a wide QRS complex with an initial slurred component (delta wave), and secondary repolarization changes in association with symptomatic reentrant (paroxysmal) supraventricular tachycardia. Episodes of
