Myocarditis overview
KEYWORDS: myocarditis, cardiac, patients, left, include, acute, ventricular, myocardial, left ventricular, myocarditis include, failure, heart, presence, pericarditis, fulminant


Overview Myocarditis is defined as inflammation of the myocardium. It may present with chest pain, ST segment elevation, elevated biomarkers of myonecrosis, heart failure, and/ or sudden death. Myocarditis can be classified clinicopathologically into fulminant myocarditis, acute myocarditis, chronic active myocarditis, and chronic persistent myocarditis. During either an infection or a hypersensitivity reaction, the inflammatory response may cause myonecrosis either directly or indirectly as part of an autoimmune reaction. Life-threatening causes of myocarditis include carbon monoxide poisoning and Dengue fever. Common causes of myocarditis include infections, Lyme disease, and medications. Idiopathic myocarditis is the most common type of myocarditis and is often suspected to be secondary to a viral infection. Myocarditis must be distinguished from pericarditis and the life threatening condition of ST elevation myocardial infarction. In young adults, up to 20% of all cases of sudden death are due to myocarditis. Myocarditis is slightly more frequent among males than females. Myocarditis is usually self limiting and is associated with a good prognosis especially if it is secondary to a viral infection. Patients rarely develop cardiac failure, pulmonary edema, arrhythmias, or cardiogenic shock. In some instances, myocarditis may be associated with sudden death. Patients with fulminant myocarditis have a good long term prognosis if they survive the acute phase of the disease. The prognosis of fulminant myocarditis is better than that of either acute myocarditis or giant cell myocarditis. The presence of left bundle branch block, q waves, AV block, syncope and a left ventricular ejection fraction < 40% are associated with sudden death and cardiac transplantation. The physical examination in patients with myocarditis may reveal tachycardia, a cardiac gallop, mitral regurgitation due to left ventricular dilation, and pedal edema suggestive of cardiac failure. A pericardial friction rub may be noted in presence of concomitant pericarditis, a condition sometimes referred to as myopericarditis. Historical Perspective Myocarditis was first discovered by Jean Baptiste Senac, a French physician, in 1794. The term myocarditis was introduced by German physician Joseph Friedrich Sobernheim in 1837. In 1980s, the World Health Organization and the International Society and Federation of Cardiology were the first to differentiate between myocarditis and other cardiomyopathies. The Dallas criteria was published in 1986 as a guideline for classification of myocarditis. Classification Myocarditis can be classified based on the causative, histological, and clinicopathological criteria. Causative criteria include three main groups, as well as infectious, immune-mediated, and toxic myocarditis. Based on the type
