Myocarditis overview
KEYWORDS: myocarditis, cardiac, patients, left, include, acute, ventricular, myocardial, left ventricular, myocarditis include, failure, heart, presence, pericarditis, fulminant


ventricular dysfunction, arrythmias, and sudden cardiac death. Diagnosis History and Symptoms Myocarditis should be suspected in a patient with acute decompensation of cardiac function who is at low risk of ischemic heart disease. A history of a recent (within the preceding 2-4 weeks) viral illness is often elicited in a large number of patients with myocarditis. Cardiac specific symptoms may become apparent usually in the subacute virus-clearing phase. In myocarditis due to drug hypersensitivity, patients may give a history of ingesting an offending drug. In fulminant myocarditis, patients present with the abrupt onset of flu-like symptoms and the abrupt onset of heart failure symptoms. In chronic and acute myocarditis, the onset of symptoms may be more insidious. Common symptoms of myocarditis include chest pain, pedal edema, palpitations, fever, and joint pains. Physical Examination There are no specific findings for myocarditis. Patients with myocarditis usually show signs of cardiac dysfunction and underlying diseases. The physical examination in patients with myocarditis may reveal tachycardia, a cardiac gallop, mitral regurgitation due to left ventricular dilation, and pedal edema suggestive of cardiac failure. A pericardial friction rub may be noted in presence of concomitant pericarditis, a condition sometimes referred to as myopericarditis. Laboratory Findings Laboratory findings consistent with the diagnosis of myocarditis include elevated markers of myonecrosis, inflammatory markers, and other biomarkers. Markers of myonecrosis include creatine kinase (CK-MB), cardiac troponin I (cTnI) or T (cTnT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), alanine transaminase (ALT), and aspartate transaminase (AST). Elevated levels of C-reactive protein and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and leukocytosis are suggestive of myocarditis. Serologic markers such as Fas, Fas ligand, interleukin-10 or antimyosin autoantibodies are of prognostic value in myocarditis. Other auto-antibodies such as ANA and rheumatoid factor may also be detected. Electrocardiogram The presence of ST segment elevation in patients with myocarditis can mimic pericarditis and myocardial infarction. Arrhythmias and heart block may also be observed in myocarditis patients. Myocarditis can be distinguished from pericarditis by the presence of PR depression in the patient with pericarditis. Endomyocardial Biopsy Endomyocardial biopsy remains the gold standard test to evaluate for the presence of and to subclassify the type of myocarditis. A small tissue sample of the endocardium and myocardium is obtained via Croigokhiets hseidlpe uds dcelaivredr ioaucr secravtichese.t Beyr uizsiantgi oounr .s eTrvhicees , syaoum agprleee tois o utrh uesen o fe cvooakliuesa.ted by a pathologist 3/6 using immunochemistry and special staining techniques as necessary. Histopathological
