Myocarditis overview
KEYWORDS: myocarditis, cardiac, patients, left, include, acute, ventricular, myocardial, left ventricular, myocarditis include, failure, heart, presence, pericarditis, fulminant


ioaucr secravtichese.t Beyr uizsiantgi oounr .s eTrvhicees , syaoum agprleee tois o utrh uesen o fe cvooakliuesa.ted by a pathologist 3/6 using immunochemistry and special staining techniques as necessary. Histopathological features include abundant edema in the myocardial interstitium and an inflammatory infiltrate which is rich in lymphocytes and macrophages. Focal destruction of myocytes as a result of the inflammatory process results in left ventricular dysfunction. Endomyocardial biopsy is recommended when the results would identify an underlying disease that is amenable to therapy. Routine performance of endomyocardial biopsy is not recommended in all patients with myocarditis. Chest X Ray Findings on chest x-ray suggestive of myocarditis include cardiomegaly, cephalization of the pulmonary vessels and, Kerley B-lines in presence of heart failure pericardial thickening in presence of pericarditis, pulmonary edema, and pleural effusion. Echocardiography Echocardiography in patients with myocarditis allows for serial assessment of left ventricular dysfunction and can be used to distinguish fulminant (non-dilated hypocontractile left ventricle with thick interventricular septum) from acute myocarditis (dilated hypocontractile left ventricle with normal interventricular septum). Echocardiography may be helpful in the diagnosis of myocarditis. Findings on an echocardiography suggestive of myocarditis include wall motion abnormalities, systolic and diastolic dysfunction, changes in image texture, pericardial effusion, and functional regurgitation through the AV valves. CT scan Cardiac CT scan may be helpful in the diagnosis of myocarditis. Cardiac CT scan can be used in diagnosis of acute myocarditis ( subepicardial late iodine enhancement), exclusion of acute coronary syndrome by CT angiography, and alternative diagnostic tool in patients with CMR contraindications. MRI Cardiac MRI is indicated in patients with new or persisting symptoms of chest pain and congestive heart failure, who have evidence of significant myocardial injury, in the absence of or in whom there is a low suspicion of coronary atherosclerosis. Cardiac MRI findings associated with myocarditis include myocardial inflammation, myocardial edema, capillary leak, and reduced left ventricular function. While the CMR pattern of gadolinium hyperenhancement in ST segment elevation myocardial infarction is transmural and extends from the endocardium to the epicardium, the patchy, non-segmental hyperenhancement pattern in myocarditis in contrast involves the epicardium and spares the subendocardium. CMR has a sensitivity of 76%, specificity of 95.5%, and overall diagnostic accuracy of 85% when any-two of the following three sequences are used, focal and global T2 signal intensity, myocardial global relative enhancement, and delayed gadolinium enhancement. Coronary angiography may be helpful in excluding either myocardial ischemia
