Myocarditis overview
KEYWORDS: myocarditis, cardiac, patients, left, include, acute, ventricular, myocardial, left ventricular, myocarditis include, failure, heart, presence, pericarditis, fulminant


the following three sequences are used, focal and global T2 signal intensity, myocardial global relative enhancement, and delayed gadolinium enhancement. Coronary angiography may be helpful in excluding either myocardial ischemia or infarction as the cause of ST segment elevation, elevated cardiac biomarkers, or left ventricular dysfunction. Nuclear imaging may be useful in diagnosis of cardiac sarcoidosis. Other Diagnostic Findings Treatment Medical Therapy Symptomatic treatment is the mainstay of therapy for patients with viral myocarditis. Supportive therapy includes diuretics and inotropes for left ventricular failure. ACE inhibitor therapy may aid in left ventricular remodeling. Among patients with fulminant myocarditis, placement of either an intra-aortic balloon pump or a left ventricular assist device may be necessary as bridge to recovery. Administration of antimicrobial therapy is recommended for bacterial myocarditis. Immunosuppressive therapy may be effective in the management of giant cell myocarditis, autoimmune myocarditis, and eosinophilic myocarditis. In patients with arrythmias, treatment should be initiated only if arrhythmias are symptomatic or sustained. Myocarditis patients presenting with conduction abnormalities, particularly Mobitz type II and complete heart block require temporary pacemaker usually during the acute phase. Surgery Cardiac transplantation is sometimes required to treat refractory giant cell myocarditis. However, the condition can recur in post-transplant patients. Primary prevention There are no established measures for the primary prevention of all types of myocarditis. Vaccination against measles, rubella, mumps, poliomyelitis, and influenza could prevent myocarditis secondary to these diseases. Secondary prevention Effective measures for the secondary prevention of myocarditis include, clinical evaluation, ECG, and echocardiography. CMR, cardiac CT scan, nuclear assessment in patients that echocardiography is undiagnostic. Patients should udergo cardiac function assessment at one and six months and yearly after that.
