Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


ABSTRACT Heart failure (HF) is an underappreciated complication of diabetes. HF occurs in individuals with diabetes at higher rates, even in the absence of other HF risk factors such as coronary artery disease and hypertension. Comorbid ischemic heart disease and cardiovascular risk factors significantly contribute to the etiology of cardiomyopathy and HF in patients with diabetes. In addition, long-standing diabetes can independently cause subclinical alteration in cardiac structure and function, eventually leading to the development and progression of HF. A complex interplay between numerous mechanisms underlies the pathophysiologic links between diabetes and HF. Patients with concurrent diabetes and HF have impaired quality of life and a poor prognosis with a high risk of hospitalization and mortality. Despite the solid epidemiologic link between poor glycemic control and HF risk, the effects of intensified glycemic control in preventing HF remain controversial. Large-scale cardiovascular outcome trials published since 2015 have confirmed the efficacy and safety of sodium-glucose co-transporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2) inhibitors in preventing HF among patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. In addition, several dedicated major clinical trials confirmed the cardiovascular benefits of SGLT2 inhibitors in patients with established HF, regardless of left ventricular ejection fraction or diabetes status. Furthermore, high-quality data from these clinical trials transformed SGLT2 inhibitors from glucose-lowering agents to HF drugs. This chapter outlines the complex relationship between HF and diabetes, focusing on the epidemiology, pathophysiology, and prognostic implications. Additionally, we review the current knowledge on identifying subclinical cardiac remodeling, predicting HF risk, and preventing HF in diabetes. We also summarize the recent evidence and guideline recommendations for the pharmacological treatment of patients with coexisting HF and diabetes. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Diabetes is a risk factor for cardiomyopathy and heart failure (HF) independent of traditional cardiovascular (CV) disease (CVD) risk factors such as hypertension and coronary artery disease (CAD) ( 1 – 4 ). The universal definition of HF recognizes patients with diabetes as “at risk for HF” (Stage A). Asymptomatic individuals with at least one of the following: 1) evidence of structural heart disease, 2) abnormal cardiac function, or 3) elevated cardiac natriuretic peptide or troponins are considered to have “pre-HF” (stage B). According to this classification, HF (stage C) is defined as a clinical syndrome with signs or symptoms of HF caused by an abnormality in cardiac structure and function and corroborated
