Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


According to this classification, HF (stage C) is defined as a clinical syndrome with signs or symptoms of HF caused by an abnormality in cardiac structure and function and corroborated by elevated natriuretic peptide or objective evidence of cardiogenic congestion (pulmonary or systemic) ( 3 , 5 ). The prevalence of diabetes is approximately 10.2% in the U.S. population, and HF affects 9 to 22% of patients with diabetes ( 6 – 10 ). In clinical trials of antidiabetic agents, HF was present in 4 to 30% of participants with diabetes ( 11 ). On the other hand, the prevalence of pre-diabetes or diabetes was 30 to 40% among individuals enrolled in HF trials ( 12 , 13 ). Longstanding diabetes alters cardiac structure and function, resulting from the direct effects of abnormal myocardial metabolism and insulin resistance (IR) even without atherosclerotic CAD ( 14 ). The pathophysiologic link between diabetes and HF is complex and multifactorial, involving various abnormal biochemical pathways including but not limited to abnormal calcium signaling, deranged glucose/fatty acid metabolism, and inflammatory pathways contributing to myocardial fibrosis, stiffness, and hypertrophy ( 7 , 15 , 16 ). A complex interaction of these mechanisms can cause asymptomatic diastolic and systolic dysfunction, eventually leading to the clinical syndrome of HF. Conversely, HF is also associated with a higher prevalence of diabetes and is considered a predictor of future risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) ( 17 ). Left ventricular (LV) dysfunction in patients with diabetes may present with three different HF phenotypes, such as HF with preserved LV ejection fraction (LVEF ≥ 50%; HFpEF), HF with mildly-reduced LVEF (HFmrEF; LVEF 40-49%), and HF with reduced LVEF (HFrEF; LVEF ≤40%) ( 3 ). Diagnosing HFpEF and HFmrEF is often challenging since the symptomatology of HF may overlap with other comorbidities such as obesity, lung disease, and chronic kidney disease (CKD). Therefore, the guidelines usually recommend incorporating additional objective diagnostic criteria such as elevated natriuretic peptides or imaging evidence of either structural heart disease or diastolic dysfunction ( 18 ). The coexistence of diabetes and HF is a poor prognostic factor, posing a greater risk of HF hospitalization, all-cause mortality, and CVD mortality. For instance, epidemiologic studies indicated a 50-90% higher risk of CVD mortality in patients with HF and diabetes, regardless of HF phenotype ( 12 , 19 ). HF patients without DM are at increased risk of
