Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


50-90% higher risk of CVD mortality in patients with HF and diabetes, regardless of HF phenotype ( 12 , 19 ). HF patients without DM are at increased risk of developing glycemic abnormalities. In addition, newly diagnosed pre-diabetes was associated with a significantly higher risk of all-cause and CV mortality in HF patients. These findings underscore the importance of screening for pre-diabetes or diabetes among patients with HF ( 17 , 20 , 21 ). Moreover, early assessment with echocardiography can be helpful for the detection of subclinical structural abnormalities and myocardial dysfunction in asymptomatic patients with diabetes. The pathophysiology of diabetes-related HF is complex, and despite significant advances over the past decades, many areas are still poorly understood. Since 2015, several landmark clinical trials on sodium-glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors and glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP1-RA) have revolutionized our understanding of CVD risk reduction in patients with T2DM and have led to a paradigm shift in the clinical practice recommendations for the management of T2DM ( 22 ). Incredible evidence from the CVD outcome trials (CVOTs) has confirmed the significant improvement in HF outcomes with SGLT2 inhibitors in patients with or without diabetes. These findings increased medical communities' awareness and interest in the links between diabetes and HF. The American Diabetes Association (ADA) now recommends using SGLT2 inhibitors as first-line agents in T2DM patients with a high risk of or established HF ( 23 ). In addition, several dedicated major randomized clinical trials (RCTs) confirmed the CVD benefits of SGLT2 inhibitors in patients with established HF, regardless of LVEF or diabetes status. Moreover, these RCTs transformed SGLT2 inhibitors from glucose-lowering agents to HF drugs. The 2022 American College of Cardiology (ACC) Foundation / American Heart Association (AHA) / Heart Failure Society of America (HFSA) guideline for the management of HF recommended the use of SGLT2 inhibitors for the treatment of HF, regardless of LVEF ( 3 ). This chapter outlines the complex relationship between HF and diabetes, focusing on the epidemiology, pathophysiology, and prognostic implications. Additionally, we review the current knowledge on identifying subclinical cardiac remodeling, predicting HF risk, and preventing HF in diabetes. We also summarize the recent evidence and guideline recommendations for the pharmacological treatment of patients with coexisting HF and diabetes. EPIDEMIOLOGY OF DIABETES AND HF There is a bidirectional link between diabetes and HF ( 24 ). Diabetes, either type 1 or type 2, is a
