Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


coexisting HF and diabetes. EPIDEMIOLOGY OF DIABETES AND HF There is a bidirectional link between diabetes and HF ( 24 ). Diabetes, either type 1 or type 2, is a strong risk factor for developing HF ( 25 – 27 ). In addition, HF may contribute to the pathogenesis of IR and T2DM ( 28 ). The shared underlying risk factors and the overlap of the pathophysiological mechanisms play a critical role in the frequent coexistence of T2DM and HF. Based on the data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) from 2015 to 2018, the prevalence of HF is 2.3% in the US general adult population ( 29 ). The prevalence of HF in individuals with diabetes ranges between 9% and 22%, depending on the characteristics of the population studied ( 6 , 8 , 9 ). Diabetes is also highly prevalent among patients with HF. In major contemporary drug trials of HF, 32% to 43% of patients with chronic HF had coexisting diabetes ( 12 , 30 , 31 ). A report from a nationwide US registry (NHANES 2005-2016) demonstrated that, among patients with HF, the prevalence rates of diagnosed and undiagnosed T2DM were 34.7% and 12.8%, respectively ( 32 ). HF is a common but often neglected complication of diabetes ( 33 ). HF and cardiomyopathy have a heterogeneous etiology in patients with diabetes ( Figure 1 and Figure 2 ). The strong link between diabetes and CAD, hypertension, and renal disease plays a significant role in the development of cardiomyopathy and HF in patients with diabetes ( 34 ). Moreover, HF occurs in individuals with diabetes at higher rates, even in the absence of other HF risk factors ( 16 , 35 ). Diabetic Cardiomyopathy Diabetic cardiomyopathy, which lacks a standardized clinical definition, generally refers to diabetes-related myocardial dysfunction without other potential causes ( 36 ). A report by Lundbæk in 1954 described the concept of diabetes directly causing myocardial dysfunction ( 37 ). In 1972, a landmark study by Rubler et al. described diabetic cardiomyopathy as a new clinical entity by reporting the post-mortem results of 4 patients with diabetes-related HF and dilated cardiomyopathy without other apparent causes of myocardial dysfunction ( 14 ). The initial reports of diabetic cardiomyopathy referred to a dilated LV with eccentric hypertrophy and LV systolic dysfunction (HFrEF). Nevertheless, more recent clinical studies described HFpEF with concentric LV
