Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


). The initial reports of diabetic cardiomyopathy referred to a dilated LV with eccentric hypertrophy and LV systolic dysfunction (HFrEF). Nevertheless, more recent clinical studies described HFpEF with concentric LV hypertrophy and LV diastolic dysfunction as a distinct phenotype of cardiomyopathy rather than being an intermediate form between risk factors and HFrEF ( 38 ). The transition from HFpEF to HFrEF does not appear to occur as commonly as it was once presumed. Epidemiologic Evidence Evidence from large-scale epidemiologic studies has confirmed the strong link between diabetes and HF. For instance, reports from the prospective Framingham Heart Study in the 1970s indicated that individuals with diabetes had 2-fold (in men) to 5-fold (in women) higher risk of developing HF than individuals without diabetes after adjustment for other risk factors ( 2 , 39 ). Similarly, contemporary cohort studies suggested that diabetes is independently associated with a 1.7 to 2.5-fold greater risk of HF ( 6 , 40 ). A recent nationwide cohort study from Sweden including >679.000 patients with T2DM and >2 million matched control subjects demonstrated that a diagnosis of T2DM was associated with HF risk even if CVD risk factors, such as glycated hemoglobin, systolic blood pressure (BP), estimated glomerular filtration rate, and lipids were within a target range ( 41 ). The study also demonstrated that CVD complications have significantly declined over the past 20 years in individuals with and without T2DM. However, the decline in the rate of HF in patients with T2DM has plateaued over recent years. One potential explanation for this finding is the obesity epidemic, as adiposity plays a major role in the development of HF in patients with diabetes. For instance, a recent analysis of 2 US cohort studies demonstrated that overall obesity, abdominal obesity, and fat mass were strongly associated with a greater risk of HF in participants with diabetes. Interestingly, a similar independent association was absent in those without T2DM ( 42 ). Ischemic heart disease is more frequently seen in HF patients with coexistent T2DM than those without T2DM (63% vs. 47%). Moreover, ~90% of the patients with T2DM and HF of non-ischemic etiology have at least one comorbidity that can contribute to HF development, such as hypertension, atrial fibrillation, valvular disease, or pulmonary disease ( 43 ). Figure 1. Heart failure with reduced ejection fraction due to ischemic cardiomyopathy in a patient with uncontrolled type 2 diabetes. 57-year-old
