Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


fibrillation, valvular disease, or pulmonary disease ( 43 ). Figure 1. Heart failure with reduced ejection fraction due to ischemic cardiomyopathy in a patient with uncontrolled type 2 diabetes. 57-year-old female patient with a history of uncontrolled type 2 diabetes (HbA1c = 12.0) and active tobacco abuse presented with a 2-day history of intermittent midsternal chest pain. (A) Her ECG on presentation demonstrated findings of acute/recent anteroseptal myocardial infarct and old/age indeterminate inferior myocardial infarct, and her serum troponin I was markedly elevated. (B and C) Her echocardiography revealed a dilated left ventricle with severely reduced systolic function, an ejection fraction of 20-25%, and akinetic anterior and inferior wall segments. Her coronary angiography, which was performed emergently, demonstrated subacute occlusion of the proximal segment of the anterior descending artery (arrow in image D) and chronic total occlusion of the middle segment of the right coronary artery (arrow in image E). Figure 2. Heart failure with reduced ejection fraction due to non-ischemic cardiomyopathy in a patient with uncontrolled type 2 diabetes. 59-year-old male patient with a history of hypertension (medically managed), class I obesity, hyperlipidemia, moderate alcohol consumption, and undiagnosed type 2 diabetes (HbA1c = 13.5) presented with dyspnea on exertion, orthopnea, and leg edema and he was admitted with the diagnoses of acute decompensated heart failure. (A) His ECG on presentation demonstrated left ventricular hypertrophy with repolarization abnormalities. (B and C) His echocardiography revealed a dilated left ventricle with severely reduced systolic function and diffuse hypokinesis, an ejection fraction of 25-30%, and eccentric left ventricular hypertrophy. (D and E) His coronary angiography, performed for ischemic evaluation, demonstrated no evidence of significant epicardial coronary artery disease. The patient’s non-ischemic cardiomyopathy was attributed to a mixed presentation of alcoholic and diabetic cardiomyopathy and hypertensive heart disease. Diabetes is an independent predictor of progression from preclinical HF (stage A and stage B) to clinic HF (stage C) ( 44 ). A population-based analysis on the National Scottish Register found that HF hospitalization risk was ~2-fold higher among patients with diabetes than those without diabetes ( 45 ). A prospective cohort study, including individuals from the southeastern U.S., demonstrated that hypertension and diabetes were associated with the highest HF risk in white and black participants ( 46 ). The population-attributable risk of HF was highest for hypertension (31.8%), followed by diabetes (17%). A population-based case-control study also observed an attributable risk of HF at
