Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


participants ( 46 ). The population-attributable risk of HF was highest for hypertension (31.8%), followed by diabetes (17%). A population-based case-control study also observed an attributable risk of HF at ~17% for diabetes, without any significant difference between HFpEF and HFrEF ( 47 ). Epidemiologic studies have demonstrated a higher incidence of HF in men than in women with diabetes ( 27 , 40 ). This finding is consistent with the strong association between HF risk and male sex in the general population. However, interestingly, diabetes contributes to the future risk of HF more in women than in men, as supported by multiple epidemiologic studies ( 27 , 39 ). In a meta-analysis of 47 cohort studies including >12 million individuals, type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) and T2DM were associated with a 47% and 9% greater excess risk of HF in women than men, respectively ( 48 ). The basis for the sex-specific disparity in HF risk attributable to diabetes remains unclear. Prediabetes and HF Risk Some epidemiologic studies have suggested that prediabetes may pose a risk for cardiomyopathy and HF( 49 ). In a population-based cohort study, prediabetes was independently associated with HF with an odds ratio of 1.7 ( 9 ). A modest but significant association exists between fasting plasma glucose levels and the risk of HF independent of an individual’s diabetes status ( 50 ). Glycemic Control and HF Risk Glycemic exposure predicts HF risk in individuals with T1DM and T2DM ( 26 , 27 , 51 ). A population-based prospective case-control study from the Swedish National Diabetes Register evaluated the impact of glycemic control on the future risk of HF hospitalization over a mean follow-up of 7.9 years ( 26 ). Compared to a population-based control group without diabetes, patients with T1DM had a four times higher risk of HF hospitalization. Nevertheless, the risk markedly varied depending on glycemic control or comorbidities; hazard-ratio (HR) of 2.2 (1.5–3.0; p<0·0001) in patients with hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) ≤6.9%, HR of 11.2 (8·4–14·9; p<0·0001) in patients with HbA1c ≥9.7%. Another report from the same dataset revealed that each 1% increase in HbA1c correlated with a 20% higher risk of HF in patients with myocardial infarction and T1DM ( 52 ). Among individuals with T2DM, the excess risk of HF attributable to glycemic control varies depending on the patient’s age. For instance, poor glycemic control correlates more strongly with excess risk
