Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


Among individuals with T2DM, the excess risk of HF attributable to glycemic control varies depending on the patient’s age. For instance, poor glycemic control correlates more strongly with excess risk of HF among middle-aged adults (<55 years old). In contrast, the correlation between HbA1c and the risk of HF markedly attenuates with advanced age ( 27 ). Age at Diagnosis of Diabetes and HF Risk Diagnosis of diabetes at a younger age correlates with a higher risk of HF ( 45 , 53 , 54 ). A report by Rawshani et al. using the data from the Swedish National Diabetes Register demonstrated that compared to a control group without diabetes, individuals with onset of T1DM before age ten years had 12 times and those with onset during young adulthood (20 to 29 years) had five times increased risk of HF. Sattar et al., using the same registry data, evaluated the association between age at diagnosis and future HF risk among participants with T2DM ( 54 ). Their analysis revealed that adults diagnosed with T2DM before 41 years of age had a five times higher risk of HF than their counterparts without diabetes. Interestingly, T2DM diagnosis after the age of 80 years did not increase the risk of HF and was associated with a lower risk of all-cause and CV mortality. Consistently, an analysis from a US cohort demonstrated that every 5-year increase in the duration of DM was independently associated with a 17% rise in the risk of incident HF ( 55 ). As expected, the association between diabetes duration and HF risk was more prominent in patients with elevated HbA1c. The explanations behind the association of duration and age at diabetes diagnosis and future HF risk are likely multifaceted, with a variation between T1DM and T2DM. The total glycemic load, defined as the cumulative exposure to the effects of hyperglycemia, is a predictor of complications of diabetes. The main components of the total glycemic load are the glycemic variability and the duration of diabetes determined by the age of diabetes onset, more prominently in T1DM ( 53 ). Individuals who develop T2DM at a younger age are more likely to have other comorbidities such as obesity, dyslipidemia, hypertension, nephropathy, smoking, and lower socioeconomic status when compared to their counterparts without diabetes. Furthermore, this comorbidity burden likely contributes to the relative excess risk of HF observed in patients diagnosed with
