Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


smoking, and lower socioeconomic status when compared to their counterparts without diabetes. Furthermore, this comorbidity burden likely contributes to the relative excess risk of HF observed in patients diagnosed with T2DM at a relatively young age ( 54 ). These findings highlight the significance of delaying diabetes onset as one focus of HF prevention efforts ( 55 ). The Relationship Between Diabetes and Comorbidities Traditional modifiable CVD risk factors, such as hypertension, obesity, dyslipidemia, and cigarette smoking, are prevalent among individuals with diabetes. Hypertension affects 66% to 76% of adults with diabetes in the US ( 56 ). According to the 2020 National Diabetes Statistics Report, 45.8% of adults with diabetes are obese (body-mass-index [BMI] of 30 to 39.9 kg/m 2 ), and 15.5% are morbidly obese (BMI of ≥40 kg/m 2 ) ( 10 ). Coexisting CVD risk factors significantly contribute to the risk of HF in patients with diabetes. A large prospective cohort study, including >270,000 participants with T2DM in the Swedish National Diabetes Register, examined the relationship between five risk factors (elevated HbA1C, dyslipidemia, albuminuria, smoking, and high BP) and CVD outcomes after a median follow-up of 5.7 years ( 57 ), The analyses revealed that participants with T2DM who had no risk-factor variables outside the target ranges had a 45% higher risk of hospitalization for HF when compared to that of a control group without diabetes. However, the excess risk of hospitalization for HF was substantially higher (HR vs. control, 11.35; 95% CI, 7.16 to 18.01) when patients with T2DM had all five risk-factor variables outside the target range. These findings indicated the importance of controlling coexisting CV risk factors for preventing HF in diabetes. Recent reports have indicated that comorbid mental disorders may increase HF risk in individuals with diabetes. A retrospective analysis of nationwide health claims data of Korean participants demonstrated an independent association between HF risk and the number of mental disorders in patients with diabetes ( 58 ). HF as a Risk Factor for Diabetes Patients with HF are at risk of developing incident DM over time. Data from clinical trials showed that the incidence of new-onset diabetes among patients with HF is 7 to 11% over a 3- to 5-year follow-up period ( 59 , 60 ). Even though the published data is sparse, some evidence has emerged over the past two decades supporting the possible independent role of HF as
