Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


period ( 59 , 60 ). Even though the published data is sparse, some evidence has emerged over the past two decades supporting the possible independent role of HF as a risk factor for incident T2DM ( 61 ). Analyses of prospective cohort studies and clinical trial participants demonstrated that HF at baseline might predispose the future risk of new-onset diabetes ( 61 – 64 ). Significant predictors of incident diabetes among individuals with HF are elevated glucose and HbA1c, higher BMI and waist circumference, longer duration of HF, and higher functional class of HF ( 28 , 61 – 63 ). IMPACT OF DIABETES ON CARDIAC STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION The frequent coexistence of diabetes with other comorbidities, such as hypertension and obesity, makes it difficult to understand the relative contribution of each disease entity in cardiac remodeling and dysfunction in clinical practice ( 65 ). However, growing evidence has supported an independent association between diabetes and various alterations in cardiac structure and function. These asymptomatic subclinical alterations at earlier stages can be detrimental and increase the risk of developing HF and CVD morbidity and mortality in general ( 44 ). Recognizing these subclinical alterations is critical for the early identification of high-risk patients and preventing overt HF and diabetic cardiomyopathy. Left Ventricular Hypertrophy LV hypertrophy (LVH) is characterized by increased LV mass due to myocardial remodeling. LVH is usually caused by a complex interaction between several factors, including hypertension, diabetes, metabolic syndrome, obesity, gender, ethnicity, and genetic and neurohumoral factors ( 66 ). There are three distinct LV geometric abnormality patterns: concentric remodeling (normal LV mass with increased relative wall thickness), concentric LVH (increased LV mass and increased relative wall thickness), and eccentric LVH (increased LV mass and normal relative wall thickness) ( Figure 3 ). Figure 3. Based on linear measurements, relative wall thickness and left ventricular mass index determine left ventricular geometric patterns. LVH, left ventricular hypertrophy. LVH has long been recognized as a target organ response and a strong independent risk factor for HF, CAD, stroke, and CVD mortality ( 66 , 67 ). LVH leads to LV diastolic dysfunction by reduced LV compliance, impaired diastolic filling, prolonged isovolumetric relaxation, and increased LV and left atrial filling pressures ( 16 ). The universal definition of HF recognizes asymptomatic LVH, LV systolic dysfunction, and LV diastolic dysfunction as “pre-HF” to emphasize the progressive nature of HF and
