Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


filling pressures ( 16 ). The universal definition of HF recognizes asymptomatic LVH, LV systolic dysfunction, and LV diastolic dysfunction as “pre-HF” to emphasize the progressive nature of HF and the importance of HF prevention ( 5 ). LVH is common among adults with diabetes, with an estimated prevalence as high as 70% ( 68 ). A pooled analysis of 3 epidemiological cohort studies, including 2900 individuals with T2DM and no known CVD, demonstrated that 67% of the participants had at least one of the following echocardiographic abnormalities: LVH, left atrial enlargement, or diastolic dysfunction ( 44 ). Coexistent hypertension appears to be the main contributor to LVH in patients with diabetes ( 69 ). However, several studies have also demonstrated an independent association between diabetes and LVH. In the Framingham Heart Study, serum glucose, insulin levels, and IR were significantly linked to concentric LV remodeling, a finding that was more striking in women than in men ( 70 , 71 ). Results from a prospective cohort study with a 25-year follow-up period indicated that long-standing glycemic abnormalities have a cumulative effect on LV remodeling, and patients with early-onset diabetes tend to have a worse degree of LVH ( 72 ). Diabetic cardiomyopathy may present with distinct LVH features ( 34 ). Thickened and stiff LV walls with normal LV volume usually characterize diabetic cardiomyopathy with HFpEF phenotype. Furthermore, at the cellular level, cardiomyocytes appear hypertrophied with normal sarcomere structure and increased collagen deposition in the interstitial space. Contrarily, diabetic cardiomyopathy with HFrEF phenotype usually manifests with eccentric LVH with dilated LV volume. At the cellular level, cardiomyocytes appear to have damage with loss of sarcomeres and replacement of some cardiomyocytes with interstitial fibrosis ( 38 ). LV Diastolic Dysfunction Diastolic dysfunction is common among otherwise asymptomatic individuals with diabetes, and its prevalence varies between 20% and 60% depending on the diagnostic criteria used and the population studied ( 73 – 75 ). Prospective cohort studies have confirmed that diabetes and poor glycemic control can independently contribute to the development of diastolic dysfunction ( 72 ). Even though diastolic dysfunction is often linked to LVH, it can occur in patients with diabetes, even in the absence of LVH ( 34 ). Mild diastolic dysfunction (delayed myocardial relaxation) has a weak prognostic significance. However, the progression of diastolic dysfunction and increased LV filling pressure findings on echocardiography predispose to the future
