Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


). Mild diastolic dysfunction (delayed myocardial relaxation) has a weak prognostic significance. However, the progression of diastolic dysfunction and increased LV filling pressure findings on echocardiography predispose to the future risk of HF and mortality in patients with diabetes ( 73 , 75 ). Moreover, among asymptomatic individuals with baseline diastolic dysfunction, diabetes is an independent predictor of progression to HFpEF or HFrEF ( 76 ). LV Systolic Dysfunction Traditionally, impaired LVEF is the primary marker of cardiomyopathy and systolic dysfunction. LVEF is a simple measure commonly used in the CV risk evaluation and management of CVD. However, LVEF does not capture the full spectrum of myocardial function ( 77 ). Global longitudinal strain (GLS) evaluated by speckle-tracking echocardiography is a robust technique that measures tissue deformation in a longitudinal direction ( Figure 4 ). Reduced GLS is a marker of reduced contractility ( 75 ). GLS is more sensitive than conventional LVEF as a measure of systolic function and has an additional prognostic value ( 77 , 78 ). Therefore, it is now commonly used to detect subclinical LV systolic dysfunction. Figure 4. Global longitudinal strain by speckle tracking echocardiography. Assessment of global longitudinal strain (GLS) in a healthy, asymptomatic individual with a GLS of -25%. The top row displays a regional strain map superimposed on the grayscale two-dimensional echocardiographic images in apical four-chamber (A4C), apical two-chamber (A2C), and apical three-chamber (A3C) views. The bottom left bullseye displays regional longitudinal strain for each segment of a 16-segment left ventricle model. Bright red denotes the most negative normal values of GLS. The bottom right bullseye shows the time (ms) between aortic valve opening and peak longitudinal strain, a measure of desynchrony, for each segment. Impaired GLS is highly prevalent in asymptomatic, normotensive patients with diabetes and normal LVEF ( 67 , 79 , 80 ). Diabetes is associated with reduced GLS, even in adolescents and young adults with T1DM or T2DM ( 81 , 82 ). Moreover, an inverse correlation exists between HbA1C and GLS regardless of diabetes status, race, and sex ( 83 ). Not surprisingly, impaired GLS is a robust independent predictor of new-onset HF and mortality in patients with diabetes ( 67 ). Diabetes can lead to clinical HF syndrome in individuals with asymptomatic LV systolic dysfunction. An RCT that included adults with asymptomatic LV systolic dysfunction demonstrated that diabetes increased the risk of HF development by
