Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


clinical HF syndrome in individuals with asymptomatic LV systolic dysfunction. An RCT that included adults with asymptomatic LV systolic dysfunction demonstrated that diabetes increased the risk of HF development by 53% and doubled the risk of HF hospitalization over a median follow-up of 3 years ( 84 ). Better glycemic control in patients with diabetes can lead to improvements in LV systolic and diastolic function indices. In a prospective cohort study of subjects with uncontrolled T2DM, lowering of average HbA1c from 10.3% to 8.3% over 12 months was associated with a 21% increase in GLS and a 24% increase in septal e’ velocity, a marker of myocardial relaxation ( 85 ). PATHOPHYSIOLOGIC LINKS BETWEEN DIABETES AND HF A complex interplay between numerous mechanisms underlies the pathophysiologic links between diabetes and HF. These pathophysiologic mechanisms include but are not limited to impaired cardiac insulin signaling, glucotoxicity, lipotoxicity, mitochondrial dysfunction, myocardial fibrosis, oxidative stress, impaired myocardial calcium handling, CV autonomic dysfunction, endocardial dysfunction, overactivation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system ( 7 ) ( Figure 5 ). The relative contribution of each pathophysiologic mechanism and their relationship with the phenotype of diabetic cardiomyopathy are still poorly understood. The pathophysiology of cardiomyopathy and HF vary depending on the type of diabetes (T1DM vs. T2DM) and type of HF (HFrEF vs. HFpEF) ( 86 ). Figure 5. Pathophysiological mechanisms, subclinical abnormalities, and clinical manifestations of diabetic cardiomyopathy. AGEs, advanced glycation end-products; CMP, cardiomyopathy; EF, ejection fraction; HF, heart failure; LV, left ventricular; RAAS, renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. *In patients with type-1 diabetes mellitus. Alterations in Myocardial Energy Substrate Under normal circumstances, the heart predominantly consumes free fatty acids (FFA; ~70%) and glucose (~30%) and can adapt its choice of fuels depending on their availability ( 15 ). In T2DM, cardiomyocyte substrate utilization shifts towards FFA, and glucose utilization decreases in response to IR. As a result, the heart becomes metabolically less flexible and almost completely reliant on FFA. These alterations lead to inefficient energy metabolism since FFA oxidation requires more oxygen for energy production than glucose or ketone bodies ( 15 , 87 ). Moreover, the increased FFA uptake causes the accumulation of triglycerides in the cardiomyocytes and promotes lipotoxicity, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and apoptosis ( 34 ). A prospective study elegantly evaluated the impact of diabetes on lipid accumulation by analyzing endomyocardial biopsy samples from 158 adult heart transplant recipients ( 88 ). The investigators demonstrated
