Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


). A prospective study elegantly evaluated the impact of diabetes on lipid accumulation by analyzing endomyocardial biopsy samples from 158 adult heart transplant recipients ( 88 ). The investigators demonstrated that cardiomyocyte samples of transplanted healthy hearts begin to show evidence of lipid accumulation (triacylglycerol and ceramide) as early as three months after a transplant in diabetic recipients. In comparison, no lipid accumulation was present in cardiomyocyte samples of transplant recipients without diabetes. Not surprisingly, cardiomyocyte lipid accumulation was an independent predictor of early systolic and diastolic dysfunction in recipients with diabetes after 12 months of a transplant. Hyperinsulinemia and Insulin Resistance In broad terms, IR is defined as the inability of insulin to carry on its metabolic actions at the cellular level ( 34 ). IR is the central defect in the pathogenesis of metabolic syndrome and T2DM. Moreover, HF is a well-known insulin-resistant state, and HF risk and prognosis are markedly affected by IR ( 34 , 89 ). IR increases lipolysis, hepatic lipogenesis, and hepatic gluconeogenesis. These changes lead to substrate overload and myocardial dysfunction through lipotoxicity and glucotoxicity ( 75 ). IR and related hyperinsulinemia can affect the signaling pathways involved in cardiomyocyte hypertrophy ( 38 ). Oxidative Stress Oxidative stress is the imbalance between the increased generation of reactive oxygen species and reduced antioxidant defense ( 75 ). Exposure to hyperglycemia induces oxidative stress by activating NADPH oxidase, promoting mitochondrial production of superoxides, and increasing the formation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs) due to nonenzymatic glycation and oxidation of proteins and lipids ( 34 , 87 ). Oxidative stress contributes to increased cardiac remodeling, reduced cardiac contractility and relaxation, and impaired cardiomyocyte calcium handling ( 75 ). Moreover, oxidative stress contributes to myocardial dysfunction by causing protein and DNA damage, increasing myocardial inflammation, and impairing intracellular signaling pathways ( 34 ). Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress and Impaired Calcium Handling Myocardial intracellular calcium levels regulate myocardial contractility during a cardiac cycle. Alterations in the complex mechanism of calcium handling can impact myocardial contraction and relaxation ( 90 ). The endoplasmic reticulum has a major role in Ca 2+ handling, lipid synthesis, and protein folding and modification ( 91 ). Moreover, cytosolic Ca 2+ levels regulate cellular metabolism and cell signaling. Hyperglycemia and IR trigger endoplasmic reticulum stress, leading to unfolded proteins accumulating and impairing Ca 2+ handling. In diabetic cardiomyopathy, impaired Ca 2+ reuptake by the
