Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


metabolism and cell signaling. Hyperglycemia and IR trigger endoplasmic reticulum stress, leading to unfolded proteins accumulating and impairing Ca 2+ handling. In diabetic cardiomyopathy, impaired Ca 2+ reuptake by the endoplasmic reticulum prolongs diastolic relaxation time ( 91 ). Studies on animal models have indicated that impaired cardiomyocyte Ca 2+ handling plays a crucial role in the pathophysiology of diabetic cardiomyopathy ( 7 , 90 ). Endothelial and Microvascular Dysfunction Endothelial dysfunction, which disturbs endothelial-cardiomyocyte communication and vascular function, is common in patients with diabetes and CVD ( 15 ). Diabetes induces the deposition of AGEs in the endothelial and smooth muscle cells of the myocardial microvasculature ( 92 ). Furthermore, the deposition of AGEs triggers vascular inflammation, which reduces endothelial nitric oxide production. Low myocardial nitric oxide bioavailability levels predispose to concentric LV remodeling and diastolic dysfunction ( 38 ). Diabetes has also been linked to capillary rarefaction and pericyte loss. Microcirculatory rarefaction can impair myocardial perfusion, reduce coronary flow reserve, lead to tissue hypoxia, increase myocardial stiffness, and decrease contractility ( 38 , 93 ). Inflammation Systemic inflammation is a central component of the association between obesity, diabetes, CAD, and HF ( 34 ). In individuals with obesity, the expanding adipose tissue recruits immune cells and causes overproduction of proinflammatory cytokines, leading to obesity-mediated chronic inflammation ( 94 ). Chronic low-grade inflammation predisposes to IR and T2DM and contributes to diabetes-related complications ( 94 ). Similarly, systemic inflammation is highly prevalent in patients with HF, contributing to the development, progression, and poor prognosis of HF regardless of LVEF ( 95 ). Animal model studies have shown a complex interaction between various inflammatory pathways implicated in cardiac inflammation and the development of diabetic cardiomyopathy ( 96 , 97 ). One potential link between HF and diabetes is S100A12, an inflammatory protein that increases with hyperglycemic stress. A prospective cohort study including 1345 patients with T2DM demonstrated an independent association between increased A100A12 and risk of HF hospitalization ( 98 ). Epicardial Adipose Tissue Expansion Diabetes and obesity can independently contribute to the expansion and transformation of epicardial adipose tissue ( 86 , 99 ). Epicardial adipose tissue expansion has been associated with LV systolic and diastolic dysfunction in patients with T2DM ( 100 ). Epicardial fat volume correlates with myocardial fibrosis ( 101 ), vascular stiffness ( 102 ), and reduced coronary microcirculation ( 103 ). Epicardial adipose tissue
