Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


with T2DM ( 100 ). Epicardial fat volume correlates with myocardial fibrosis ( 101 ), vascular stiffness ( 102 ), and reduced coronary microcirculation ( 103 ). Epicardial adipose tissue expansion and transformation contribute to the alterations in the cardiac structure and function through several pathophysiological mechanisms such as proinflammatory effects of adipokines (i.e., leptin, tumor necrosis factor-a, interleukin-1b and interleukin-6) secreted from epicardial fat and oxidative stress induced by reactive oxygen species released from adipocytes ( 86 , 104 ). Autoimmunity Autoimmunity is implicated in the pathogenesis of CVD among patients with T1DM ( 38 , 105 ). A recent report from a prospective cohort study showed that participants with T1DM and uncontrolled glycemia (HbA1c ≥ 9.0%) have a high prevalence of cardiac autoantibodies with an antibody profile similar to that seen in patients with chronic Chagas cardiomyopathy ( 106 ). Moreover, cardiac autoantibody positivity predicted elevated high-sensitivity C-reactive protein and the future risk of CVD events. Interestingly, cardiac autoimmunity was lower in participants with controlled T1DM (HbA1c <7.0%) compared to those with uncontrolled (HbA1c ≥ 9.0%). The specific role of cardiac autoimmunity in the development and progression of diabetic cardiomyopathy remains to be further explored. Overactivation of the Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System Overactivation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) constitutes a robust pathophysiologic link between diabetes, obesity, hypertension, and HF ( 34 ). The typical features of RAAS overactivation are elevated serum angiotensin and aldosterone levels and the upregulation of angiotensin and mineralocorticoid receptors ( 91 , 107 ). There is a bidirectional relationship between RAAS activation and dysglycemia. Hyperglycemia and IR can activate the RAAS, and in return, RAAS induces systemic and cardiac IR and contributes to oxidative stress in cardiomyocytes by increasing the activity of NADPH oxidase ( 7 ). Autonomic Dysfunction Autonomic nervous system dysfunction is highly prevalent in patients with diabetes. CV autonomic neuropathy (CAN) differentially impacts the cardiac innervation's sympathetic and parasympathetic components, leading to sympathetic overactivation in the earlier stages ( 16 ). This imbalance is believed to contribute to the pathogenesis of CVD. CAN induces LV remodeling, LV systolic and diastolic dysfunction, and myocardial ischemia ( 108 – 110 ). CAN is usually asymptomatic at earlier stages, and at advanced stages, it may present with resting tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, abnormal BP regulation, blunted heart rate response to exercise, and impaired heart rate variability ( 34 , 111 ). Myocardial Fibrosis Myocardial fibrosis, detected by
