Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


with resting tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, abnormal BP regulation, blunted heart rate response to exercise, and impaired heart rate variability ( 34 , 111 ). Myocardial Fibrosis Myocardial fibrosis, detected by histopathology or cardiac MRI, is a hallmark of diabetes-induced cardiac remodeling and related myocardial dysfunction. In patients with diabetes, the degree of myocardial fibrosis directly correlates with HbA1c levels ( 112 ). Diabetes-induced myocardial fibrosis is characterized by the remodeling of extracellular matrix with the deposition and crosslinking of stiff collagen, progressive elimination of muscular fibrils, perivascular fibrosis, basement membrane thickening, coronary microvascular sclerosis, and formation of microaneurysms ( 16 ). Myocardial fibrosis is often considered an end product of various pathophysiologic abnormalities such as hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, oxidative stress, CAN, inflammation, and the overactivation of RAAS. Apoptosis Apoptosis, the process of programmed cell death, has been implicated in the development of diabetic cardiomyopathy and HF ( 113 ). Studies from animal models and human subjects have demonstrated a strong association between hyperglycemia and cardiomyocyte apoptosis ( 114 , 115 ). The primary drivers of cardiomyocyte apoptosis in diabetes are oxidative stress, endoplasmic reticulum stress, and dysregulation of autophagy, the lysosomal process that degrades and recycles cellular proteins and organelles ( 34 , 116 ). PROGNOSTIC IMPLICATIONS OF DIABETES IN HF Data from epidemiologic studies and clinical trials have consistently demonstrated that individuals with concurrent diabetes and HF have impaired quality of life, are at high risk of hospitalization and mortality, and have an overall poor prognosis ( 33 , 117 ). In addition, coexistent prediabetes also appears to increase the risk of morbidity and mortality in patients with HF as well ( 118 ). A large meta-analysis including >380,000 subjects with acute and chronic HF from 43 registries and clinical trials revealed that diabetes was associated with a 28% increased risk of all-cause mortality and ~35% increased risk of both CV death and hospitalization (mostly from HF) over a three year follow up ( 119 ). Interestingly, the adverse impact of diabetes on the risk of hospitalization and mortality did not differ according to the LVEF group (≤35% vs. >35%) but was higher in patients with chronic HF than those with acute HF. Observational studies have suggested a U-shaped relationship between HbA1c and mortality in patients with coexisting HF and diabetes. Aguliar et al. reported that HbA1c of 7.1% to ≤7.8% was associated with the lowest risk of mortality when
