Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


between HbA1c and mortality in patients with coexisting HF and diabetes. Aguliar et al. reported that HbA1c of 7.1% to ≤7.8% was associated with the lowest risk of mortality when compared with the other quantiles of HbA1c in a cohort of ambulatory patients with HF who were receiving medical therapy for diabetes in the early 2000s ( 120 ). Several potential mechanisms have been proposed to explain the prognostic impacts of diabetes in HF. Diabetes is linked to multimorbidity, which significantly alters HF outcomes. Moreover, diabetes induces myocardial fibrosis, inflammation, and endothelial dysfunction, leading to higher LV pressures, poor functional status, and impaired exercise capacity in patients with HF ( 121 – 125 ). Diabetes predisposes neurohumoral overactivation and alterations of renal sodium handling, which may lead to congestion, cardiorenal syndrome, and impaired diuretic responsiveness ( 121 ). Also, hyperglycemia in patients with diabetes upregulates SGLT2, which leads to increased renal sodium absorption and volume expansion ( 121 ). Moreover, the increased burden of ischemic heart disease and other diabetes-related comorbidities, such as CKD, contribute to the detrimental effects of HF ( 126 ). Data from the Swedish Heart Failure Registry demonstrated that the diabetes-associated mortality risk is more pronounced in individuals with HF of ischemic etiology than those with nonischemic etiology ( 43 ). The 2-year survival rate was less than 50% among those with HF, T2DM, and ischemic heart disease. The presence of preexisting microvascular disease is an independent risk factor for the risk of future HF events in patients with T2DM ( 44 ). In addition, microvascular disease portends an increased risk of mortality and morbidity in patients with HF. A post hoc analysis of a large RCT demonstrated a significant association between a history of microvascular complications and future risk of adverse events among study subjects with diabetes and HFpEF ( 127 ). PREVENTION OF HF IN PATIENTS WITH DIABETES The critical importance of HF prevention is underscored by HF staging, where risk factors such as hypertension and diabetes are classified as stage A (at risk for HF) ( 3 ). Because of the detrimental prognostic impact of clinical HF, the prevention of asymptomatic cardiac remodeling and dysfunction (pre-HF, stage B) and symptomatic HF (stage C) are among the primary goals of the management of patients with diabetes ( 128 ). Prevention of HF by Preventing Diabetes Preventing the onset of diabetes during young adulthood or
