Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


are among the primary goals of the management of patients with diabetes ( 128 ). Prevention of HF by Preventing Diabetes Preventing the onset of diabetes during young adulthood or middle age is an effective strategy for reducing HF risk later in life. An analysis of a large pooled US cohort evaluated the cumulative and relative impact of the absence of five modifiable HF risk factors (diabetes, hypertension, obesity, dyslipidemia, smoking) in middle age (45 to 55 years of age) ( 129 ). The data showed that the absence of diabetes in middle age strongly predicted HF-free survival, with a more than 60% lower risk of incident HF than those with diabetes. In addition, subjects without diabetes, hypertension, and obesity at ages 45 to 55 years, compared to those with all 3 of these risk factors, had an average >10 years longer HF-free survival and 13 years longer overall survival ( 129 ). Prediction of HF Risk in Patients with DM HF risk stratification is essential for prevention in patients with DM or prediabetes who do not have ASCVD. Even though echocardiography can detect cardiac remodeling in patients with diabetes, its use is not routinely recommended for asymptomatic individuals because of concerns about cost-effectiveness ( 4 ). However, measuring natriuretic peptides or high-sensitivity cardiac troponin can help identify patients with pre-HF or those at risk of progression to HF. Therefore, patients with diabetes should have a measurement of natriuretic peptides or high-sensitivity cardiac troponin yearly to identify high-risk individuals and assist with HF prevention ( 4 ). Several risk prediction tools and algorithms have been developed to predict incident HF in patients with dysglycemia. Pandey et al. described a simple biomarker-based risk score including high-sensitivity cardiac troponin T ≥6 ng/l, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein ≥3 mg/l, N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) ≥125 pg/ml, and LVH by ECG, with each abnormal parameter counting as 1 point. This risk score was tested in participants from 3 major US cohort studies. This risk score had good risk stratification for predicting 5-year incident HF risk in patients with both diabetes and prediabetes ( 130 ). More complex risk prediction tools (WATCH-DM and TRS-HF DM ) incorporating a more extensive list of clinical variables have also been developed. Validation studies on participants from different clinical trials demonstrated that these risk scores could stratify HF risk among patients with T2DM ( 131 – 133 ). However, prospective
