Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


been developed. Validation studies on participants from different clinical trials demonstrated that these risk scores could stratify HF risk among patients with T2DM ( 131 – 133 ). However, prospective studies have not evaluated these risk scores, and their clinical utility remains uncertain. Glycemic control, obesity management, and BP control are well-established therapeutic options to lower the risk of microvascular or macrovascular complications in patients with diabetes. The clinical implications of these therapeutic options in HF prevention will be reviewed here. Impact of Blood Pressure Control on HF Prevention Diabetes and hypertension commonly coexist because of the overlap of underlying risk factors and pathophysiological mechanisms ( 134 , 135 ). The coexistence of diabetes and hypertension synergistically contributes to the risk of microvascular and macrovascular complications and CVD. Therefore, BP control with lifestyle modifications and antihypertensive medications is a primary target for reducing the risk of complications due to coexisting diabetes and hypertension ( 134 ). The ACC/AHA guidelines recommend initiating an antihypertensive agent when patients with diabetes have an office BP of ≥140/90 mmHg. The recommended BP target is below 140/90 mmHg for low-risk patients and below 130/80 for individuals with established or high risk for atherosclerotic CVD ( 136 ). BP lowering has strong benefits in preventing HF among individuals with diabetes ( 35 ). However, the magnitude of this benefit appears to be smaller in patients with diabetes than in those without diabetes. Large meta-analyses of RCTs of BP-lowering therapy demonstrated that every 10 mmHg reduction in systolic BP (SBP) was associated with a 16% to 25% lower risk of HF among individuals with diabetes and 25% to 43% risk reduction among those without diabetes ( 137 , 138 ). The landmark ACCORD BP (Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes Blood Pressure) trial compared the impact of intensive (SBP goal <120 mmHg) versus standard BP control (SBP <140 mmHg) on major adverse CV events (MACE) in hypertensive patients with diabetes ( 139 ). In this trial, intensive BP control did not improve the risk of MACE or HF but increased the risk of adverse events. Therefore, the 2018 European Society of Cardiology (ESC)/European Society of Hypertension guidelines for the management of arterial hypertension recommended avoiding a target SBP <120 mmHg in patients with diabetes ( 140 ). The antihypertensive drug classes with strong CV risk reduction in individuals with diabetes are thiazide diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)
