Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


target SBP <120 mmHg in patients with diabetes ( 140 ). The antihypertensive drug classes with strong CV risk reduction in individuals with diabetes are thiazide diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), and dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers. Therefore, any of these agents can be considered a first-line therapy for lowering BP in individuals with diabetes. Because of their renal protection benefits, an ACE inhibitor or an ARB should be a part of the initial therapy for those with albuminuria ( 136 , 141 ). It should be noted that beta-blockers are not among the first-line antihypertensive agents for patients with or without diabetes. Because there is insufficient evidence on the mortality benefits of beta-blockers when used for the sole purpose of BP reduction in the absence of HF or CAD ( 136 , 141 ). The landmark Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack (ALLHAT) has been the largest trial designed to assess the relative efficacy of different antihypertensive agents in protection against CVD. The results of this trial demonstrated that chlorthalidone (a thiazide diuretic) was superior to lisinopril (an ACE inhibitor) and amlodipine (a calcium-channel blocker) in the prevention of HF among patients with or without diabetes ( 142 , 143 ). A subsequent large meta-analysis of RCTs revealed that diuretics and renin-angiotensin system blockers were independently superior to other antihypertensive agents in the prevention of HF among patients with diabetes ( 138 ). Loop diuretics are considered to have a neutral effect on glycemic control in patients with diabetes. Evidence from posthoc analysis and meta-analysis of antihypertensive drug trials has shown a small but significant association between thiazide diuretic use and higher fasting plasma glucose ( 144 ). A meta-analysis of 26 RCTs demonstrated that thiazide diuretic use was associated with a 4.6 mg/dL higher fasting plasma glucose than non-thiazide agents or placebo in patients with hypertension ( 145 ). A possible link between thiazide diuretic use and new-onset diabetes in patients with hypertension was supported by some studies ( 146 ) but not all ( 147 ). Overall, the CV benefits of thiazide diuretics outweigh the risk of new-onset diabetes in non-diabetic individuals and the risk of uncontrolled glycemia in patients with diabetes ( 144 ). Therefore, neither hypertension nor HF management guidelines recommend avoidance of thiazide diuretics in patients with or at risk for diabetes. The ACC/AHA guidelines recommend the use of
