Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


( 144 ). Therefore, neither hypertension nor HF management guidelines recommend avoidance of thiazide diuretics in patients with or at risk for diabetes. The ACC/AHA guidelines recommend the use of steroidal mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRA, i.e., spironolactone and eplerenone) as an add-on therapy to the first-line antihypertensive agents in the treatment of resistant hypertension ( 136 ). Besides modest BP reduction, these agents can provide anti-fibrotic, anti-inflammatory, and anti-proteinuric benefits ( 148 , 149 ). The clinical CV benefits of these agents have been proven in patients with HFrEF. However, we lack large-scale RCTs demonstrating their CV benefits in primary prevention settings among patients with hypertension or diabetes. In a small RCT including 140 patients with T2DM and high CVD risk, adding high-dose eplerenone to standard treatment reduced LV mass and decreased NT-ProBNP and a circulating serum marker of myocardial fibrosis ( 150 ). Our knowledge of MRAs in patients with diabetes has expanded with two Phase III landmark RCTs evaluating the cardiorenal benefits of Fineranone, a recently discovered non-steroidal MRA with high affinity and specificity for the mineralocorticoid receptor ( 151 ). FIDELIO-DKD and FIGARO-DKD trials demonstrated that fineranone therapy on top of maximally tolerated RAAS inhibitor treatment was renally protective and reduced the risk of the primary endpoint of CVD outcomes in patients with T2DM and CKD ( 152 , 153 ). More specifically, fineranone therapy significantly reduced the risk of hospitalization for HF (HR; 0.71 [95% CI, 0.56-0.90]) in the FIGARO-DKD trial ( 153 ). Based on these results, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recently approved fineranone to reduce the risk of estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) decline, end-stage renal disease, CVD death, non-fatal MI, and HF hospitalization in patients with CKD and T2DM ( 151 ). Obesity Management and Lifestyle Modifications Studies have consistently demonstrated that purposeful weight reduction, achieved via diet, exercise, or bariatric surgery, has favorable impacts on glycemic control, IR, BP, and lipid profiles and reduces the need for antidiabetics in obese individuals with T2DM ( 34 , 154 , 155 ). Moreover, weight reduction can delay the progression from prediabetes to T2DM ( 156 ). The ADA recommends lifestyle modification to achieve at least a 5% weight loss for all overweight or obese individuals with prediabetes or diabetes ( 157 ). Also, the guidelines emphasize the need for an individualized medical nutrition therapy program for individuals with diabetes to achieve
