Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


overweight or obese individuals with prediabetes or diabetes ( 157 ). Also, the guidelines emphasize the need for an individualized medical nutrition therapy program for individuals with diabetes to achieve treatment goals. The recommended exercise regimen for most individuals with T1DM and T2DM is at least 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous aerobic activity per week, spread over at least three days/week, and an additional 2-3 sessions/week of resistance exercise ( 157 ). Despite the well-established favorable effects of weight loss in patients with diabetes, the role of lifestyle changes and weight loss in preventing HF among diabetic patients remains uncertain. A meta-analysis of 36 prospective cohort studies published before 2014 demonstrated that achieving recommended physical activity levels (150 minutes of moderate‐intensity aerobic activity per week) was associated with reduced risk of incident HF (relative risk; 0.81 [0.76, 0.86]) in patients with diabetes ( 112 ). The Look AHEAD (Action for Health in Diabetes) has been the largest RCT evaluating the CV effects of an intensive lifestyle intervention that promoted weight loss through decreased caloric intake and increased physical activity in overweight or obese participants with T2DM ( 154 ). The study subjects in the intensive lifestyle intervention group lost 8.6% of body weight at one year and, by the end of the 10-year follow-up, maintained a modest (6%) weight loss compared to 3.5% in the control group. Despite the achieved relative weight loss and improved physical fitness and HbA1c, the intensive lifestyle intervention did not reduce the risk of CVD mortality and morbidity, including HF risk, which was a secondary outcome. A post hoc analysis by Pandey et al. evaluated the impact of cardiorespiratory fitness and the degree of weight loss on the HF risk among the Look AHEAD trial participants with an extended follow-up period ( 158 ). The investigators observed a 20% reduction in incident HF risk as a response to a 10% reduction in BMI over a 4-year follow-up. Moreover, a higher baseline and improvement of cardiorespiratory fitness over time predicted a lower risk of incident HF. Interestingly, subgroup analysis revealed a more significant correlation between baseline fitness and incident HFpEF than incident HFrEF. Future dedicated studies are needed to explore the HF risk reduction effects of more intense weight loss and exercise training interventions to promote sustained improvements in body weight and cardiorespiratory fitness in patients with T2DM ( 158 ). Metabolic surgeries, when performed
