Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


of more intense weight loss and exercise training interventions to promote sustained improvements in body weight and cardiorespiratory fitness in patients with T2DM ( 158 ). Metabolic surgeries, when performed as a part of a comprehensive weight management strategy, are effective treatment options for achieving more significant and durable weight loss in individuals with severe obesity ( 159 ). Individuals with T2DM and severe obesity who undergo metabolic surgeries experience improvement in glycemic control and insulin sensitivity and may have remission of diabetes ( 159 ). Evidence from RCTs and observational studies has demonstrated that metabolic surgery, as compared to conventional lifestyle modifications and medical therapy, can reduce overall CV risk and improve the quality of life in individuals with T2DM and severe obesity ( 160 – 162 ). The impact of metabolic surgeries on incident HF risk has not yet been evaluated in large-scale RCTs. In a large nationwide prospective observational study of obese individuals without a known history of HF, metabolic surgery was associated with a >50% reduction in the risk of incident HF ( 163 ). Another retrospective cohort study from the Cleveland Clinic Health System in the U.S. demonstrated that metabolic surgery among patients with T2DM and obesity was associated with approximately 40% relative reduction of major adverse CV event risk and more than 60% relative reduction of incident HF risk over a median follow-up of 3.9 years ( 164 ). Impact of Glycemic Control In patients with T1DM and T2DM, intensive glycemic control significantly reduces the risk and severity of microvascular complications ( 34 ). However, despite the solid epidemiologic link between poor glycemic control and HF risk, the effects of intensified glycemic control in preventing HF remain controversial. Early clinical trials that established the CV benefits and risks of intensive glycemic control did not include HF as a primary endpoint. However, post hoc or secondary outcome analyses of prospective trials have shed light on the relationship between glycemic control and HF prevention. In the UK Prospective Study of Diabetes (UKPDS) published more than 20 years ago, intensive glycemic control with metformin, sulfonylureas, or insulin was compared to conventional therapy in adults with recently diagnosed T2DM. A post hoc analysis of the main trial demonstrated that each 1% reduction in mean HbA1c was associated with a 16% decrease in incident HF ( 165 ). However, similar results were not replicated by subsequent large-scale RCTs such
