Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


that each 1% reduction in mean HbA1c was associated with a 16% decrease in incident HF ( 165 ). However, similar results were not replicated by subsequent large-scale RCTs such as the ACCORD ( 166 , 167 ), the ADVANCE (Action in Diabetes and Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron Modified Release Controlled Evaluation ( 168 ), and the VADT (Veterans Affair Diabetes Trial) ( 169 ) which failed to show any reduction in HF risk with intensive glucose control in patients with T2DM. Consistently, a meta-analysis of all these trials showed no overall effect of intensive glucose control on HF risk despite a modest (9%) reduction in the risk of major CV outcomes ( 170 ). These observations confirmed that blood-glucose-lowering and improvement of HbA1c are insufficient targets for preventing HF in patients with diabetes. The treatment section below discusses the impact of specific antidiabetic agents on the prevention of HF in high-risk patients. TREATMENT OF HF IN PATIENTS WITH DIABETES The primary objectives in managing HF are to reduce mortality, prevent HF hospitalization, and improve patients’ clinical status, quality of life, and functional capacity ( 18 ). The major components of managing HF are lifestyle changes, education and support for HF self-management, monitoring, control of the underlying causes and associated comorbidities, pharmacologic therapy, cardiac rehabilitation, device therapies, mechanical circulatory support, and cardiac transplantation ( 171 ). The major society guidelines for the management of patients with HF include the ACC/AHA/HFSA guidelines published in 2022 ( 3 ) and the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) guidelines published in 2021 ( 18 ). The main components of lifestyle changes recommended for patients with HF are physical exercise, smoking cessation, restriction of or abstinence from alcohol consumption, dietary modifications, and avoidance of obesity ( 18 ). ACC/AHA/HFSA and ESC guidelines strongly recommend regular aerobic exercise and exercise training to improve functional capacity and symptoms in patients with HF who can participate. The ACC/AHA/HFSA guideline indicated that avoiding excessive dietary sodium intake is reasonable (class IIa) for patients with symptomatic HF to reduce congestive symptoms ( 3 ). However, because of a lack of affirmative evidence from clinical trials, the guidelines did not provide precise recommendations about the limit of daily sodium intake and whether it should vary depending on the type, stage, or severity of HF or comorbidities. Diuretic Therapy in HF Diuretics increase urinary sodium excretion and reduce physical signs and
