Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


and whether it should vary depending on the type, stage, or severity of HF or comorbidities. Diuretic Therapy in HF Diuretics increase urinary sodium excretion and reduce physical signs and symptoms of congestion in HF patients by inhibiting sodium or chloride reabsorption in the renal tubules. Loop diuretics such as bumetanide, furosemide, and torsemide act in the loop of Henle, whereas thiazide diuretics such as hydrochlorothiazide, metolazone, chlorthalidone, and potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone, eplerenone, and triamterene act in the distal position of the tubule ( 172 ). Loop diuretics, which produce a shorter and more intense diuresis than thiazides, are usually the preferred agents for achieving and maintaining euvolemia and reducing the risk of HF hospitalization in patients with HF. Large-scale RCTs have not evaluated the effects of the loop and thiazide diuretics on mortality and morbidity in patients with HF. First-Line Pharmacological Treatment of HFrEF Neurohumoral antagonists (RAAS inhibitors and beta-blockers) and SGLT2 inhibitors with proven morbidity and mortality benefits are the cornerstone of guideline-directed medical therapy for patients with chronic HFrEF ( 173 ). The guidelines generally do not recommend specific therapeutic approaches in patients with diabetes compared to those without diabetes. RAAS AND NEPRILYSIN INHIBITORS The guidelines from AHA/ACC/HFSA ( 3 ) and ESC ( 18 ) recommend (Class I) the use of angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI; sacubitril/valsartan) as a first-line therapy for patients with HFrEF (New York Heart Association [NYHA] Class II or III). ACE inhibitors (Class I recommendation) are recommended to reduce the risk of morbidity and mortality in patients with HFrEF when using ARNI is not feasible. ARBs are considered acceptable vasodilator treatment options (class I recommendation) as a first-line alternative to ACE inhibitors for patients intolerant of ACE inhibitors because of cough or angioedema and when using ARNI is not feasible. Subgroup analysis or meta-analysis of major HF trials demonstrated that the effectiveness of RAAS and neprilysin inhibitors in HF does not vary based on patients’ diabetes status. Therapy with ACE inhibitors, ARBs, or an ARNI reduces the risk of morbidity and mortality among HF patients without significant effect variation based on diabetes status ( 33 , 61 , 122 , 174 ). In addition, ARNI therapy provides a similar degree of natriuretic peptide improvement and cardiac reverse remodeling in patients with or without diabetes ( 175 ). Post hoc analysis of RCTs revealed that ACE inhibitors and ARBs might reduce the
