Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


natriuretic peptide improvement and cardiac reverse remodeling in patients with or without diabetes ( 175 ). Post hoc analysis of RCTs revealed that ACE inhibitors and ARBs might reduce the risk of incident diabetes in patients with HFrEF ( 59 , 61 , 176 ). However, the data on the impact of these agents on glycemic control in patients with HF and preexisting diabetes remains limited. Neprilysin inhibition with sacubitril appears to have more favorable effects on glycemic control than ACE inhibitors ( 61 ). In the PARADIGM-HF trial, HFrEF patients enrolled in the enalapril and sacubitril-valsartan arms experienced an average of 0.16% and 0.26% HbA1c reduction after one year of treatment ( 177 ). In addition, sacubitril-valsartan use was associated with a 29% reduction in new insulin use compared to enalapril. Diabetes confers a higher risk of diabetic nephropathy and CKD. Diabetic nephropathy can lead to increased renal sodium retention and a higher risk of hyperkalemia. Therefore, it is critical to monitor serum electrolytes and creatinine when starting or escalating the dose of RAAS inhibitors in patients with HF and diabetes ( 178 ). Of note, ARNI therapy may cause a higher rate of hypotension than ACE inhibitors or ARB ( 4 ). BETA-BLOCKERS Beta-blocker therapy is recommended (class I) for all patients with stable, symptomatic HFrEF ( 3 , 18 ). Beta-blocker therapy reduces the risk of death and hospitalization and improves LVEF and clinical status in patients with HFrEF. The ACC/AHA/HFSA guidelines recommend using one of the three beta-blockers with proven mortality benefits (e.g., metoprolol succinate, carvedilol, and bisoprolol). Based on RCTs, the morbidity and mortality benefits of beta-blockers are similar in HFrEF patients with or without diabetes ( 174 , 179 , 180 ). A prospective cohort study from the UK suggested that increasing beta-blocker dose was associated with a more significant prognostic advantage in HF patients with diabetes than those without diabetes ( 181 ). Data from some old observational studies and clinical trials raised concerns for a slight increase in the risk of new-onset diabetes associated with using propranolol, a first-generation non-selective beta-blocker, to treat hypertension ( 182 , 183 ). However, such an adverse effect concern is not present with newer-generation beta-blockers in HF populations ( 184 ). Compared to other beta-blockers, carvedilol use may even reduce HbA1c, fasting insulin levels, and risk of new-onset diabetes in patients with HFrEF ( 60 ,
