Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


HF populations ( 184 ). Compared to other beta-blockers, carvedilol use may even reduce HbA1c, fasting insulin levels, and risk of new-onset diabetes in patients with HFrEF ( 60 , 184 ). Beta-blockers can potentially mask hypoglycemia symptoms by preventing palpitations and tremors and could prolong recovery from hypoglycemia by reducing glucose production in the liver ( 178 ). A post hoc analysis of the ACCORD trial demonstrated a significant association between beta-blocker use and severe hypoglycemia risk in patients with diabetes ( 185 ). However, a post hoc analysis of the MERIT-HF trial (Metoprolol CR/XL Randomized Intervention Trial in Chronic Heart Failure) did not show a similar association between beta-blocker use and hypoglycemia events in patients with HF and coexisting T2DM ( 186 ). MINERALCORTICOID RECEPTOR INHIBITORS MRAs (i.e., spironolactone or eplerenone) are recommended for all patients with HFrEF (LVEF ≤35%) and NYHA class II to IV symptoms if eGFR is >30 ml/min/1.73 m 2 and serum potassium is <5 mEq/L ( 3 , 18 ). Similar to other RAAS inhibitors, the clinical benefits of MRAs have been consistent in HF patients with or without diabetes ( 187 ). Based on limited data, MRAs appear to have a neutral effect on glycemic parameters and diabetes risk in individuals with HFrEF ( 64 , 188 ). MRAs can cause hyperkalemia; therefore, monitoring electrolytes while initiating or maintaining MRA therapy is crucial. SGLT2 INHIBITORS SGLT2 inhibitors are recommended (class I) to reduce CVD mortality and HF hospitalization in patients with symptomatic HFrEF, irrespective of the presence of T2DM ( 3 , 18 ). Empagliflozin, Dapagliflozin, and Sotagliflozin are the SGLT2 inhibitors approved by the U.S. FDA to reduce CVD death and HF hospitalization in patients with HF across the range of LVEF (HFrEF, HFpEF, HFmrEF). Dedicated landmark trials proved the CV benefits of SGLT2 inhibitors in patients with HFrEF, regardless of T2DM status ( Table 1 ). The DAPA-HF (Dapagliflozin and Prevention of Adverse Outcomes in Heart Failure) ( 189 ) and EMPEROR-Reduced (EMPagliflozin outcomE tRial in Patients With chrOnic heaRt Failure With Reduced Ejection Fraction) ( 190 ) trials enrolled symptomatic chronic HFrEF (LVEF ≤40%, NYHA class II to IV, and elevated natriuretic peptides) and were already on guideline-directed medical therapy. Patients with T1DM and advanced CKD were excluded. In these trials, compared to placebo, SGLT2 inhibitors reduced the composite of CVD death and HF hospitalization by ~25%. In addition,
