Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


0.92) Sotagliflozin SOLOIST-WHF ( 195 ) 2021 Recently hospitalized HF (All LVEF groups) 100% 9 months 0.67 (0.52 – 0.85) * Primary outcome was a composite of cardiovascular death or hospitalization for HF. Device Therapies for HFrEF Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) is strongly recommended (Class I) for primary prevention of sudden cardiac death in patients with symptomatic HFrEF who have an LVEF ≤35% despite guideline-directed medical therapy for >3 months ( 3 , 18 ). HFrEF patients with diabetes carry a significantly higher risk of sudden cardiac death than those without diabetes ( 122 ). This observation highlights the importance of considering ICD in appropriately selected cases with HFrEF and diabetes. Strong evidence from major ICD trials has confirmed the sudden cardiac death risk reduction benefits of ICDs in individuals with coexisting HFrEF and diabetes ( 196 , 197 ). Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) is a well-established therapeutic modality in patients with HFrEF and prolonged QRS duration. In appropriately selected cases, CRT with biventricular pacing can improve LV systolic function and reduce the risk of morbidity and mortality through its ability to reverse the remodeling of LV ( 198 ). In major CRT trials, HFrEF patients with and without diabetes experienced similar overall effectiveness of CRT for reducing mortality and HF hospitalization ( 199 – 201 ). However, observational studies suggested that the magnitude of LV reverse remodeling and improvement of systolic and diastolic function may be less pronounced in individuals with diabetes than in those without diabetes ( 198 , 202 , 203 ). Treatment of HFpEF Until recently, the management of patients with HFpEF and HFmrEF lacked specific therapies shown to improve morbidity and mortality definitively. Clinical trials of pharmacologic agents with proven benefits in HFrEF have predominantly revealed neutral results in populations with HFpEF ( 30 , 31 , 204 ). The guidelines focus on aggressive management of risk factors and comorbidities, exercise training, and symptom management with diuretics when volume overload findings are present in patients with HFpEF ( 3 ). The landscape of medical management of HFpEF has dramatically changed with the data from clinical trials evaluating the safety and efficacy of SGLT2 inhibitor therapy in patients with HFpEF ( Table 1 ). The EMPEROR-Preserved (Empagliflozin Outcome Trial in Patients with Chronic Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction) enrolled 5988 symptomatic patients with HF with LVEF >40% and elevated natriuretic peptides ( 194 ). In this
