Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


Outcome Trial in Patients with Chronic Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction) enrolled 5988 symptomatic patients with HF with LVEF >40% and elevated natriuretic peptides ( 194 ). In this trial, compared to placebo, empagliflozin therapy reduced the primary composite outcome of CVD death or HF hospitalization by 21%, primarily driven by a 29% reduction in HF hospitalization. SGLT2 inhibitor therapy was beneficial regardless of the presence or absence of T2DM. Based on the results of the EMPEROR-Preserved trial, the 2022 ACC/AHA/HFSA guidelines recommended (class IIa) SGLT2 inhibitor therapy to reduce CV death and HF hospitalization in patients with HFpEF and HFmrEF ( 3 ). Since the publication of these guidelines, the DELIVER (Dapagliflozin Evaluation to Improve the Lives of Patients with Preserved Ejection Fraction Heart Failure) trial was completed ( 118 ). This trial demonstrated similar benefits of dapagliflozin therapy in patients with HF and LVEF >40%. Data from the PRESERVED-HF trial, a relatively small-size multicentric RCT, evaluated the impact of dapagliflozin on the quality of life and symptoms in patients with HFpEF. In this trial, 12 weeks of dapagliflozin treatment significantly improved patient-reported physical limitations and symptoms and objectively measured exercise tolerance ( 205 ). The 2022 ACC/AHA/HFSA guidelines indicate that based on a subgroup analysis of RCTs, ARBs, MRAs, and ARNI (in appropriately selected patients) might be considered (Class IIb) in patients with HFpEF or HFmrEF to decrease hospitalizations ( 3 ). PHARMACOLOGIC THERAPY OF T2DM IN PATIENTS WITH HF Lifestyle therapy is essential to managing patients with diabetes and established or high risk for HF. We point the readers to documents from ADA and ACC/AHA for detailed review and recommendations on lifestyle therapy in this patient population ( 3 , 4 , 157 ). In this chapter, we provide a focused review of the effects of glucose-lowering agents from a HF perspective. Glycemic control is essential in patients with diabetes who have additional CV risk factors or established CVD. The ADA Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes recommend a holistic, multifactorial, and patient-centered approach when choosing antidiabetic medications. As per the guidelines, antidiabetic therapy should be selected according to patient-specific goals such as cardiorenal protection or achieving and maintaining glycemic and weight management goals. Moreover, considering comorbidities, such as HF and CKD, is essential when determining management goals ( 23 , 141 ). SGLT2 Inhibitors In light of the evidence from CVOTs showing the benefits of
