Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


comorbidities, such as HF and CKD, is essential when determining management goals ( 23 , 141 ). SGLT2 Inhibitors In light of the evidence from CVOTs showing the benefits of CVD risk reduction and renal protection, the ADA recommends using GLP1-RAs or SGLT2 inhibitors as first-line agents in T2DM patients with high-risk or established ASCVD ( 23 ). In addition, SGLT2 inhibitors are the preferred first-line antidiabetic in patients with known HF or CKD (eGFR <60 ml/min/1.73 m 2 or albuminuria). This approach is a change from before, as the guidelines no longer require first-line metformin therapy before initiating SGLT2 inhibitors or GLP1-RAs when the therapy is started with the goal of cardiorenal risk reduction in high-risk patients with T2DM. ( Table 2 ). Table 2. Pharmacologic Therapy with a Goal of Cardiorenal Risk Reduction in High-Risk Patients with T2DM View in own window Risk Profile First-line Therapy Second-line Therapy if A1C is Above the Target ASCVD* Indicators of High Risk** GLP1-RA with proven CVD benefit Or SGLT2 inhibitor with proven CVD benefit GLP1-RA with proven CVD benefit Or SGLT2 inhibitor with proven CVD benefit Heart Failure SGLT2 inhibitor with proven HF benefit Follow the algorithm for the achievement of glycemic and weight management goals. CKD*** SGLT2 Inhibitor with proven CKD benefits GLP1-RA with proven CVD benefit * ASCVD, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease: Individuals with established cardiovascular disease such as myocardial infarction, stroke, revascularization procedure, amputation, or symptomatic/asymptomatic coronary artery disease. **Indicators of high risk: ≥55 years of age with two or more additional risk factors such as obesity, hypertension, dyslipidemia, smoking, and albuminuria. ***CKD, chronic kidney disease: GFR <60 ml/min/1.73 m 2 or albuminuria (albumin-creatinine ratio ≥30 mg/g). GLP1-RA, glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists; A1C, hemoglobin A1c, SGLT2, sodium-glucose co-transporter -2. A wealth of high-quality data proves the HF benefits of SGLT2 inhibitors in patients with T2DM. Since the publication of EMPA-REG OUTCOME (Empagliflozin Cardiovascular Outcome Event Trial in Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Patients) trial results in 2015, ( 206 ) several large-scale CVOTs have revolutionized our understanding of the prevention of CV events and HF in patients with T2DM ( Table 1 and 3 ). In the EMPA-REG OUTCOME, empagliflozin, in the CANVAS (Canagliflozin Cardiovascular Assessment Study), canagliflozin and in the DECLARE-TIMI 58 (Dapagliflozin Effect on Cardiovascular Events–Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction 58), dapagliflozin significantly reduced incident HF events as a secondary end-point in patients with established or high risk for
