Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


only GLP-RA that significantly reduced HF hospitalization as a secondary end-point in a major CVOT, including T2DM patients with a history of CVD or CKD ( 217 ). U.S. FDA has not yet approved this agent. Some early small-size trials raised concerns for increased risk of hospitalization or arrhythmia in response to GLP1-RA treatment in patients HFrEF ( 218 ). However, A recent meta-analysis of 7 RCTs, including 54,092 ambulatory patients with T2DM, revealed that GLP1-RAs reduced the composite of HF hospitalization and CVD death (HR 0.84, 95% CI: 0.76-0.92.) in patients without a prior history of HF. However, compared to placebo, GLP1-RAs did not reduce the same outcome in patients with a previous history of HF ( 219 ). Based on available data, GLP1-RAs may potentially prevent HF in patients with no history of HF. However, GLP1-RAs do not appear to reduce HF-related events in patients with a history of HF and coexisting diabetes ( 218 ). GLP1-RAs (i.e., liraglutide and semaglutide) have also been approved as a medical therapy for weight loss in non-diabetic individuals with overweight or obesity. And in a landmark trial, treatment with tirzepatide, a novel combined glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide and GLP1-RA, led to substantial and sustained weight loss and improvement of cardiometabolic parameters in individuals with obesity ( 220 ). Several ongoing CVOTs are expected to shed light on the CV-related efficacy and safety of semaglutide or tirzepatide therapy in people with obesity or overweight but without diabetes. STEP-HFpEF (Effect of Semaglutide 2.4 mg Once Weekly on Function and Symptoms in Subjects with Obesity-related Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction) trial has been the first RCT demonstrating the benefits of weight loss with a GLP1-RA in non-diabetic patients with HFpEF and obesity (BMI ≥ 30 kg/m 2 ) ( 221 ). In this trial, semaglutide once-weekly therapy for one year led to 13.3% weight loss and was associated with significant reductions in HF-related symptoms and physical limitations. In addition, patients treated with semaglutide experienced significant improvement in 6-minute wall distance and reduction levels of natriuretic peptide and c-reactive protein. Interestingly, fewer serious adverse events were observed with semaglutide than placebo. This trial was not powered to evaluate mortality and HF hospitalization outcomes properly. Another ongoing trial is investigating the impact of semaglutide in patients with HFpEF, obesity, and T2DM. Metformin As per the recent guidelines, metformin remains the preferred initial pharmacologic agent for treating
