Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


ongoing trial is investigating the impact of semaglutide in patients with HFpEF, obesity, and T2DM. Metformin As per the recent guidelines, metformin remains the preferred initial pharmacologic agent for treating T2DM if the treatment goal is achieving and maintaining glycemic control and weight management ( 23 ). The efficacy and safety of metformin in patients with HF have not been evaluated in dedicated prospective CVOTs. Therefore, metformin is no longer considered the first-line agent for cardiorenal renal risk reduction in T2DM patients with established or increased risk of HF. However, metformin can be used for glucose lowering in patients with T2DM and stable HF if eGFR remains >30 ml/min/1.73 m 2 . However, it should be avoided in hospitalized patients with HF ( 141 ). Data from retrospective studies and post hoc analysis of prospective RCTs predominantly supported the benefits and safety of metformin in HF populations ( 222 ). A meta-analysis of 9 observational studies conducted in the 2000s and early 2010s showed reduced mortality and no change in safety outcomes with the use of metformin compared to sulfonylurea therapy (predominantly) in HF populations ( 223 ). It should be noted that the U.S. FDA removed HF from the contraindication list of metformin in 2006 since the lactic acidosis risk is rare, and the benefits of metformin use in patients with HF were supported by observational studies ( 61 ). Table 4. Effect of Glucose-Lowering Drugs on Heart Failure Hospitalization Risk in Patients with T2DM View in own window Drug Class Medication HF Hospitalization SGLT-2 Inhibitors Empagliflozin 35% reduced risk Canagliflozin 33% reduced risk Dapagliflozin 27% reduced risk Ertugliflozin 30% reduced risk* Dual SGLT1/SGLT2 Inhibitor Sotagliflozin 33% reduced risk GLP-1 Receptor Agonists Liraglutide Neutral effect Lixisenatide Neutral effect Semaglutide Neutral effect Albiglutide Neutral effect Exenatide Neutral effect Efpeglenatide 39% reduced risk DPP-4 Inhibitors Saxagliptin 27% increased risk Alogliptin Neutral effect** Sitagliptin Neutral effect Vildagliptin Neutral effect Linagliptin Neutral effect Thiazolidinediones Rosiglitazone Increased risk*** Pioglitazone 41% Increased risk * Exploratory secondary outcome (primary outcome of MACE was similar to placebo). **Possible increase in the risk of HF hospitalization in patients without a history of HF at baseline (HR 1.76, 1·07–2·90). *** Increased risk of HF hospitalization and HF-related death (HR 2.10, 1.35-3.27). DPP4 Inhibitors CV safety and HF outcomes of DPP4 inhibitors have been examined in several large-scale CVOTs ( Table 4 ). In the Savor-TIMI-53 trial, there was no
