Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


2.10, 1.35-3.27). DPP4 Inhibitors CV safety and HF outcomes of DPP4 inhibitors have been examined in several large-scale CVOTs ( Table 4 ). In the Savor-TIMI-53 trial, there was no significant difference between Saxagliptin and placebo regarding the primary outcome of CV events. However, saxagliptin use was associated with a 27% relative increase in the risk of HF hospitalizations ( 224 ). In the EXAMINE (Cardiovascular Outcomes Study of Alogliptin in Patients With Type 2 Diabetes and Acute Coronary Syndrome) trial, alogliptin use showed a non-significant trend towards (3.9% vs. 3.3%, p = 0.22) increased risk of HF hospitalizations in the entire study population with a history of T2DM and recent acute coronary syndrome ( 225 ). However, the subgroup analysis showed an unexpected increase (2.2% vs. 1.3%, p = 0.026) in the risk of HF hospitalizations among subjects without a previous history of HF at baseline. Contrarily, a similar increase in the risk of HF hospitalization was not observed with other DPP4 inhibitors in dedicated CVOTs ( 226 , 227 ). The mechanism of increased HF hospitalization risk with saxagliptin and alogliptin remains unknown. A recent retrospective comparative-effectiveness study using a US health insurance data set compared the CVD outcomes among patients with T2DM who were prescribed a DPP4 inhibitor vs. an SGLT2 inhibitor ( 193 ). In this cohort, the DPP4 inhibitor therapy group experienced a higher risk of MACE and hospitalization for HF than those initiated on an SGLT2 inhibitor. DPP4 inhibitors have become less popular due to their cost and limited effectiveness in CV risk reduction compared to SGLT2 inhibitors and GLP1-RAs. Therefore, they are not among the preferred first- or second-line agents for managing T2DM in patients with HF. Based on available data, saxagliptin should be avoided in patients with known or at risk for HF. Moreover, HF risk is listed in the prescribing precautions of alogliptin. Insulin No solid evidence exists to suggest that, in T2DM, improving glycemic control with insulin lowers HF risk in at-risk patients or improves outcomes in those with established HF. Even though some observational studies suggested an increased risk of CV mortality and HF in T2DM patients treated with insulin ( 228 ), limited prospective trial data did not support such an association. The ORIGIN Trial (Outcome Reduction With Initial Glargine Intervention) was a CVOT that examined the early use of basal insulin (glargine) versus standard care in patients
