Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


support such an association. The ORIGIN Trial (Outcome Reduction With Initial Glargine Intervention) was a CVOT that examined the early use of basal insulin (glargine) versus standard care in patients with T2DM or prediabetes and a high risk of CVD. The study found that insulin glargine was neutral with regards to CV outcomes and HF events ( 229 ). Sulfonylureas Sulfonylureas (i.e., glipizide, glyburide, and glimepiride) are widely used glucose-lowering agents that promote weight gain and fluid retention ( 4 ). No dedicated RCTs evaluated the efficacy and safety of sulfonylureas in patients with HF. Data from post hoc analysis of prospective trials and observational studies have suggested either no change or worsening of HF outcomes with the use of sulfonylureas in patients with or without known HF. A recent population-based cohort study including older diabetic patients hospitalized for HF between 2006 and 2014 demonstrated that sulfonylurea initiation was associated with increased risk of future HF hospitalization (HR: 1.22; 95% CI: 1.00-1.48; P = 0.050) and mortality (HR: 1.24; 95% CI: 1.00-1.52; P = 0.045) ( 193 ). Based on current evidence, SGLT2 inhibitors, GLP1-RAs, and metformin are strongly preferable; sulfonylurea use should be avoided in patients with established or high risk for HF ( 4 , 141 ). Thiazolidinediones Thiazolidinediones (rosiglitazone and pioglitazone) have been effective oral antidiabetics in treating T2DM, significantly reducing HbA1c. However, they carry a risk of HF exacerbation and thus should be avoided in patients with established or at risk for HF. ( Table 4 ). Therefore, thiazolidinediones should not be used in patients with pre-HF or clinical HF ( 4 ). European Medicines Agencies and the U.S. FDA restricted the use of rosiglitazone, citing concerns about increased HF exacerbation after the publication of the results of the RECORD trial (Rosiglitazone Evaluated for Cardiac Outcomes and Regulation of Glycaemia in Diabetes) ( 230 ). Similarly, the PROactive study (PROspective pioglitAzone Clinical Trial In macroVascular Events) showed an improvement in MACE but an increased risk of HF events with pioglitazone therapy in high-risk patients with T2DM ( 231 ). The worsening HF outcomes with the treatment of thiazolidinediones have mainly been attributed to their effect on fluid retention. Some studies have raised concerns about the adverse impact of thiazolidinediones on myocardial metabolism and remodeling ( 61 , 222 ). Because of the availability of better options and their potential unfavorable side effect profile, the popularity of
