Diabetes, Cardiomyopathy, and Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, risk, pubmed, heart, heart failure, failure, free, patients diabetes, type, article pubmed, article, pmc free, pmc, free article


impact of thiazolidinediones on myocardial metabolism and remodeling ( 61 , 222 ). Because of the availability of better options and their potential unfavorable side effect profile, the popularity of thiazolidinediones has significantly declined. CONCLUSIONS HF and cardiomyopathy have a heterogeneous etiology in patients with diabetes. Diabetes-related comorbidities, such as CAD and hypertension, contribute to the pathogenesis of HF in patients with diabetes. The pathophysiologic link between diabetes and HF is multifactorial, involving various abnormal biochemical pathways. A complex interaction of these mechanisms contributes to the development of asymptomatic diastolic and systolic dysfunction, eventually leading to the clinical syndrome of HF. The coexistence of diabetes and HF is a poor prognostic factor, and it poses a higher risk of HF hospitalization, all-cause mortality, and CVD mortality. Therefore, the prevention of asymptomatic cardiac remodeling and progression into symptomatic HF are among the primary goals of the clinical management of patients with diabetes. BP lowering has substantial benefits in preventing HF among individuals with diabetes. Despite the well-established favorable effects of weight loss, the role of lifestyle changes and weight loss in preventing HF among diabetic patients remains uncertain. Observational data demonstrated a significant reduction in HF outcomes in response to metabolic surgeries among patients with diabetes and morbid obesity. Guideline-directed medical therapy for HF has robust morbidity and mortality benefits in individuals with or without diabetes. Subgroup analysis or meta-analysis of major HF RCTs demonstrated that the effectiveness of HF therapies such as beta-blockers, RAAS inhibitors, ARNI, and MRAs do not vary based on patients’ diabetes status, and these therapies lead to similar reductions in morbidity and mortality among HF patients with or without diabetes. Since 2015, several landmark clinical trials of SGLT2 inhibitors and GLP1-RA have revolutionized our understanding of CVD risk reduction in patients with T2DM and have led to a paradigm shift in the clinical practice recommendations for managing T2DM. SGLT-2 inhibitors are the preferred agents in the glucose-lowering regimen independent of baseline HbA1c in T2DM patients with known or at risk for HF. Several dedicated major clinical trials confirmed the CVD benefits of SGLT2 inhibitors in patients with established HF, regardless of LVEF or diabetes status. High-quality data from these clinical trials transformed SGLT2 inhibitors from a glucose-lowering agent to a HF drug. Moreover, SGLT2 inhibitors are the only medication class with U.S. FDA approval and strong guideline indication (class I or IIa) for all HF patients
