Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillators (ICD)
KEYWORDS: ventricular, class, heart, cardiomyopathy, therapy, syncope, icd, sustained, cardiac, evidence, icds, symptoms, patients, right, pacing


The decision to treat an arrhythmia depends on its symptoms and its potential severity. Treatment is directed at causes. If necessary, direct antiarrhythmic therapy, including antiarrhythmic drugs, cardioversion-defibrillation, implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs), pacemakers (and a special form of pacing, cardiac resynchronization therapy), catheter ablation, surgery, or a combination, is used. ICDs cardiovert or defibrillate the heart in response to ventricular tachycardia (VT) or ventricular fibrillation (VF). Tiered-therapy ICDs also provide antibradycardia pacing and antitachycardia pacing (to terminate responsive atrial or ventricular tachycardias) and store intracardiac electrograms (1). ICDs are implanted subcutaneously or subpectorally, with electrodes inserted transvenously into the right ventricle and sometimes also the right atrium. A biventricular ICD also has a left ventricular epicardial lead placed via the coronary sinus venous system or via thoracotomy to allow cardiac resynchronization therapy pacing (CRT-D). ICD platforms also include an ICD that is completely implanted subcutaneously (S-ICD) with no intravascular components (2) and a wearable vest-like defibrillator for short-term use (3). Chest Radiograph of a Patient with an Implantable Cardioverter Defib... Chest Radiograph of a Patient with a Biventricular (bi-V) Implantabl... Impulse generators for ICDs typically last 5 to 7 years. Indications for ICDs ICDs are the preferred treatment for patients who have had An episode of VF or hemodynamically significant VT not due to reversible or transient conditions (eg, electrolyte disturbance, antiarrhythmic drug proarrhythmia, acute myocardial infarction) ICDs may also be indicated for patients with VT or VF inducible during an electrophysiologic study and for patients with idiopathic or ischemic cardiomyopathy, a left ventricular ejection fraction of < 35%, and a high risk of VT or VF. Other indications (see table Indications for Implantable Cardioverter- Defibrillators) are less clear. Because ICDs treat rather than prevent VT or VF, patients prone to these arrhythmias may require both an ICD and antiarrhythmic drugs to reduce the number of episodes and need for uncomfortable shocks; this approach also prolongs the life of the ICD. TABLE Indications for Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillators in Ventricular Tachycardia and Ventricular Fibrillation Class of Evidence* Specific Indications Class I (Evidence or Opinion Supports) Hemodynamically unstable VT or VF when there is no transient or reversible cause 2/8 Class of Evidence* Specific Indications Hemodynamically stable sustained VT in patients with a structural heart disorder Syncope of undetermined origin with sustained monomorphic VT induced during an electrophysiologic study Ischemic cardiomyopathy, NYHA class II or class III heart failure symptoms during optimal medical therapy,
