Received: 11 November 2020 | Revised: 27 December 2020 | Accepted: 3 January 2021
KEYWORDS: tract, respiratory, infections, respiratory tract, om-, tract infections, recurrent, studies, recurrent respiratory, consumption, om- consumption, study, paediatric, related, paediatric recurrent


disease in the res- The OM-85 (Broncho-Vaxom) consumption has drawn piratory tract, upper respiratory tract infection, or lower respira- considerable attention in the prevention of recurrent res- tory tract infection. Respiratory tract infections can affect the piratory tract infections. However, it has been reported sinuses, throat, airways, or lungs. Lower respiratory infections that the relationship between OM-85 consumption and re- tend to be far more serious conditions than upper respiratory current respiratory tract infections is variable. This meta- infections.1 Most respiratory tract infections get better with- analysis was performed to evaluate this relationship. out treatment, but sometimes patients may need critical care.1 Recurrent respiratory tract infections are one of the common What’s known diseases in children. It is upper or lowers respiratory tract infec- tions that occur usually per year, though, the perception of rep- The impact of OM-85 consumption on recurrent respira- etition remains unclear. According to the guidelines of the Dutch tory tract infections may have a great effect as a tool to College of General Practitioners referral for recurrent respiratory improve subjects’ immunity against recurrent respiratory tract infection is designated if acute otitis media occurs > 4 times tract infections, which could be helpful in crucial situa- per year, sore throat occurs >5 times per year, or if otitis media tions, eg, COVID-19 pandemic. OM-85 non-consumers with effusion continues for >6 months.1 The period of recurrent had an independent risk relationship with recurrent respir- respiratory tract infections is longer and it may disturb children's atory tract infections. This relationship forces us to recom- growth and increase the suffering from other respiratory diseases mend OM-85 consumption with those with a high risk of through adulthood. recurrent respiratory tract infections to avoid any possible The pathogenesis of recurrent respiratory tract infections is complications. complex by the variability of microbial causes, immunology, and re- spiratory diseases.2 These days, there is a great concern about re- spiratory tract infection prevention due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 2 | METHODS Some studies recommend an association between the Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine and the malaria treatment to the The study performed here followed the meta-analysis of studies in prevention of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Other related infant's lower the epidemiology statement,7 which was conducted following an es- vulnerability to the BCG vaccine. Also, some other reports claimed tablished protocol. the possible use of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine as prophy- lactic in such a pandemic.3 OM-85 (Broncho-Vaxom) is
