Received: 11 November 2020 | Revised: 27 December 2020 | Accepted: 3 January 2021
KEYWORDS: tract, respiratory, infections, respiratory tract, om-, tract infections, recurrent, studies, recurrent respiratory, consumption, om- consumption, study, paediatric, related, paediatric recurrent


es- vulnerability to the BCG vaccine. Also, some other reports claimed tablished protocol. the possible use of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine as prophy- lactic in such a pandemic.3 OM-85 (Broncho-Vaxom) is not directly related to COVID-19 2.1 | Study selection but can help to reduce the incidence of respiratory tract infections. OM-85 is an orally administered immunomodulator consists of the Studies included were randomised controlled trials assessing the ef- lyophilised bacterial lysate of eight pathogenic bacteria of the respi- ficacy and safety of OM-85 (Broncho-Vaxom) on paediatric recur- ratory tract. OM-85 stimulates immune defences and the manufac- rent respiratory tract infections. Studies included were that stated ture of salivary IgA, bronchoalveolar IgA, and serum IgA and IgG4; it statistical measures of relationship (odds ratio [OR], incidence rate has been used since 1980 to both adults and children to stop recur- ratio, or relative risk, with 95% confidence intervals [CIs]) between rences of respiratory tract infections; also, to increasing IgA and IgG; OM-85 consumption and its efficacy and safety in paediatric recur- OM-85 has shown other immunomodulating properties, such as in- rent respiratory tract infections. ducing the terminal maturation of human dendritic cells with an en- Only human studies in the English language were consid- hanced T cell-stimulatory capacity,5 up-regulating the Th1-specific ered. Inclusion was not limited by study size or publication type. cytokine IFN-γ, and the down-regulating the Th2-specific cytokine Publications excluded were review articles and commentary and IL-4.6 All these properties could activate various systems in the chain studies that did not deliver a measure of association. Figure 1 shows of immunologic defence reactions. the whole study process. Meanwhile, the outcomes of most of the studies on OM-85 are inconsistent and the sample sizes are small; this meta-analysis of ran- domised controlled trials of OM-85 used in paediatric respiratory tract 2.2 | Identification infections was to assess the efficacy and safety of OM-85 consump- respiratory tract infections suggest its use in crucial situations, eg, the Library, PubMed, and Google scholar, till May 2020, using a blend of COVID-19 pandemic. keywords and similar words for OM-85, Broncho-Vaxom, paediatric CAO et Al. | 3 of 8 FIGURE 1 Schematic diagram of the study procedure recurrent respiratory tract infections, antibiotic use, adverse drug 2.4 | Eligibility reactions, and wheezing. All identified studies were pooled in an EndNote file, duplicates were omitted, and the title and abstracts The main outcome focused on the efficacy
