Received: 11 November 2020 | Revised: 27 December 2020 | Accepted: 3 January 2021
KEYWORDS: tract, respiratory, infections, respiratory tract, om-, tract infections, recurrent, studies, recurrent respiratory, consumption, om- consumption, study, paediatric, related, paediatric recurrent


2.4 | Eligibility reactions, and wheezing. All identified studies were pooled in an EndNote file, duplicates were omitted, and the title and abstracts The main outcome focused on the efficacy and safety of OM-85 on were reviewed to exclude studies that did not report the association paediatric recurrent respiratory tract infections. Evaluation of effi- between OM-85 consumption and its efficacy and safety in paediat- cacy and safety of OM-85 consumption compared with the control ric recurrent respiratory tract infections, based on pre-specified in- of paediatric recurrent respiratory tract infections was extracted to clusion and exclusion criteria. The remaining articles were reviewed form a summary. for associated information. 2.5 | Inclusion 2.3 | Screening Sensitivity analyses were limited only to studies reporting the rela- Data were abridged on the following bases; study-related and sub- tionship between OM-85 consumption and its efficacy and safety in ject-related characteristics onto a standardised form. last name of paediatric recurrent respiratory tract infections subjects. For sub- the primary author, period of study, year of publication, country, re- category and sensitivity analysis, we used OM-85 consumers com- gion of the studies, and study design; population type, total number pared with control for comparisons between paediatric recurrent and treatment characteristics; paediatric recurrent respiratory tract infections characteristics, the period of evaluating OM-85 consump- tion related to paediatric recurrent respiratory tract infections, qual- 2.6 | Statistical analysis itative and quantitative method of evaluation, information source, and outcome evaluation; and statistical analysis OR or relative risk, The dichotomous or continuous method with a random-effect model with 95% CI, of association between OM-85 efficacy and safety in or fixed-effect was used to calculate the OR or Mean differences paediatric recurrent respiratory tract infections.8 When there were (MD) and 95% CI. The I2 index was calculated; the I2 index is between different data from one study, we extracted them independently. 0% and 100%. Values of about 0%, 25%, 50%, and 75% indicate no, The risk of bias in these studies; individual studies were evaluated low, moderate, and high heterogeneity, respectively.10 When I2 was using the quality in prognosis studies tool, which evaluates validity higher than 50%, we chose the random effect model; when it was and bias in studies of prognostic factors across six domains: par- lower than 50%, we used the fixed-effect model. A subcategory ticipation, attrition, prognostic factor measurement, confounding analysis was completed by stratifying the original evaluation per measurement, and
