Received: 11 November 2020 | Revised: 27 December 2020 | Accepted: 3 January 2021
KEYWORDS: tract, respiratory, infections, respiratory tract, om-, tract infections, recurrent, studies, recurrent respiratory, consumption, om- consumption, study, paediatric, related, paediatric recurrent


respiratory tract infections. However, no relation was found be- ratory tract infections and could be of help in a pandemic such as the tween OM-85 consumption and high adverse event rate or fre- COVID-19 pandemic to reduce and accompanied supra-infection. quency wheezing attacks. That could be due to the low number of The results also suggested that the OM-85 consumption was studies that fulfilled the requirement of our meta-analysis with the positively related to a lower number of antibiotic courses, and relationship between OM-85 consumption and wheezing attack lower antibiotic use reflecting higher efficacy against recurrent frequency (three studies). The frequency wheezing attacks results 6 of 8 | CAO et Al. may differ if more studies were found with such a relationship since The reasons for the effect of OM-85 consumption on paediatric the P-value was low (P = .14) although for the relation between recurrent respiratory tract infections are likely to be multi-factorial. OM-85 consumption and high adverse event rate (five studies) it Unfortunately, no study adjusted for further relations, so it was hard is not expected to find any possible significant relation since the to draw out any of these multi-factors effects of OM-85 consump- P-value is almost equal 1 (P = .94). A previous meta-analysis found tion on paediatric recurrent respiratory tract infections. Few studies OM-85 consumption with a more adverse even rate; however, we answered whether an OM-85 consumption is linked to a reduction in could not find this significant here. That might be because their fever rate,22 reduction in incidence acute nasopharyngitis,12,24 and study comprises 53 studies, 42 of them were from China. Hence effect on IgM and IgG,17 so, we could not draw solid outcomes re- the adverse events found could be specific for Chinese paediatrics lated to these factors. and that worth further study.26 From the study presented here, we recommend increasing the Respiratory tract infections are vital causes of illness, death, use of OM-85 consumption against paediatric recurrent respiratory and disability in children27,28 and consequently are one of the major tract infections since the OM-85 is easily available and safe espe- costs load on the healthcare system.29 The pathogenesis of recur- cially in pandemics related to respiratory tract infections such as the rent respiratory tract infections is complex and has many factors, COVID-19 pandemic to oppose the possible negative result as early eg, anatomical and physiological features of the respiratory system, as
