ORIGINALRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: ibs, ckf, doi, pubmed, rats, gut, group, pmid, pubmedpmid, epub, microbiota, pathways, etal, treatment, metabolites


the daily dose was approximately et al., 2014). However, it lacks a form to explain the symptoms with IBS were divided into groups in a randomized manner and the chronic functionality of biochemical indicators of andadministeredeitherCKFortrimebutinemaleate(TM)for intestinal diseases (Yu et al., 2015; Chen et al., 2017). The 12weeks.Therapeuticresponseswereobservedin85.2%ofthe global overall prevalence rate of IBS is 5%–20%; it is 9%–22% CKF-treated patients and 64.7% in TM-treated patients (Cao inthewestand4%–10%intheAsiancountries(Vaiopoulouetal., and Lu, 2014). A recent study shows that 5.0g/kg/d CKF can 2014; Moraru et al., 2015). To date, there is no elaborate alleviate intestinal motility disorders by regulating the diagnostic strategy for IBS due to the lack of symptoms of an production of brain-gut peptides (BGPs), which in turn organic disease. Notably, the diagnosis can only be confirmed regulate the brain-gut axis and reduce symptoms of IBS in through a series of examinations to rule out inflammation, rats . Having an efficacy likewise, natural gastrointestinal infection, and organic malignancies. The plantdrugshavesaferandlessadverseeffectsascomparedto pathogenesis of IBS is complex and is associated with visceral synthetic chemical drugs. 5.0g/kg/d CKF yields a significant sensory allergies, abnormalities in gastrointestinal motility, improvement to the degree similar to that of the western intestinal microflora, overuse of small intestinal bacteria, medicine, trimebutine maleate (TM) control group in a rat immune abnormalities, psychosocial factors, and abnormalities model ofIBS(Maoetal., 2017).However,theauthors ofthis in the brain-enteral axis. Owing to the rapid development in study did not elucidate the mechanisms underlying the detection technology in recent years, intestinal microflora in therapeutic effects of CKF in IBS encompassing the various gastrointestinal diseases has emerged as a research modulation of the brain-gut axis. hotspot. Thus, intestinal flora has gradually gained recognition Networkpharmaceuticalresearchisbasedontheprinciplesof as a vital factor underlying the pathogenesis of IBS. Notably, networktheoryandsystemsbiology(Hopkins,2008;Zhangetal., disorders of the intestinal flora are common when the body is 2019). The concept of network pharmacology is based on influenced by food, climate, environment, and other factors, multiple nodes in a targeted interconnected molecular system thereby leading to the emergence of gastrointestinal diseases ratherthanasinglemolecule,thus,itshowsbettercurativeeffects including IBS. and fewer side effects . The signaling Metabolomics uses modern high-throughput analysis proteinexertsabiologicalfunctionandinteractswithitspartners, techniques for a holistic qualitative and quantitative which can be analyzed by the Genome Project gene ontology assessment of metabolites produced within a cell or by an (GO) enrichment analysis biological functions (Janga and organism at a given period, such as upon drug stimulation or Tzakos, 2009; Zhang et al., 2012; Gao et al.,
