ORIGINALRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: ibs, ckf, doi, pubmed, rats, gut, group, pmid, pubmedpmid, epub, microbiota, pathways, etal, treatment, metabolites


or by an (GO) enrichment analysis biological functions (Janga and organism at a given period, such as upon drug stimulation or Tzakos, 2009; Zhang et al., 2012; Gao et al., 2018). This is in in different pathological states. Metabolomics requires multi- line with the multi-component and multi-targeted theory of variable dimensional reduction statistics to construct and Chinese medicine. Researchers have now increasingly been systematically analyze the physiological and pathological states, using network pharmacology to predict the main active and their relationship with environmental factors and gene ingredients and potential target groups of traditional Chinese composition. The research does not consider people as an medicineanddeterminetheirmechanismsofaction(Renetal., isolated system, but as belonging to a global network involving 2014). the environment, flora, and intestinal individual differences. Thepurposeofthisstudywastoinvestigatetheinvivoeffects Previous studies on serum metabolomics of patients from IBS ofCKFinalleviatingIBSanddepression-likebehaviorcauseddue show changes in multiple metabolite contents (Elia et al., 2008; tochronicacutecombiningstress(CACS)(Yuetal.,2019).The Zeber-Lubecka et al., 2016). findings verified the strong efficacy of the model, which also According to “Jingyue Quanshu” from the Ming Dynasty, provided insights into the pathological process as well as the Chang-Kang-Fang, a multi-herb Chinese medicinal formula, vulnerability and trigger factors of IBS. Treatment with CKF hasbeenusedinChinafortheclinicaltreatmentofIBS(Mao could significantly improve the symptoms of the central and et al., 2017; Fan et al., 2021). This formula is composed of peripheral nervous system and was related to the differential Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge (Lamiaceae; Salviae miltiorrhizae levels of 5-HT and BDNF in the hippocampus and colon. We radixetrhizoma);PaeoniaeAlbaRadix(Paeoniaceae;theroot examinedtherelationshipbetweenthemicrobiota-gut-brainaxis ofPaeonialactiflfloraPall.)(15g),FagopyriDibotryisRhizoma (MGBA) and CKF treatment. Herein, we studied the effects of [Polygonaceae;therhizomeofFagopyrumcymosum(Trevir.) CKFonMGBAinIBSanddiscussedtheprotectiverolesofCKF Meisn.] (8g), Saposhnikoviae Radix [Apiaceae; the root of onIBSthroughthe5-HT-PKA-CREB-BDNFsignalingpathway. Saposhnikovia divaricata (Turcz.) Schischk.] (6g), Cuscutae WealsoevaluatedtheeffectsofCKFonthecharacteristicsofthe Semen (Convolvulaceae, the seed of Cuscuta chinensis Lam.) gut microbiota during IBS remission. In addition, network (5g), Rehmanniae Radix [Orobanchaceae, the root of pharmacology and metabolomics were performed to Rehmannia glutinosa (Gaertn.) DC.] (5g), Coptidis Rhizoma understand the multi-target regulation of the 5-HT level and (Ranunculaceae,therhizomeofCoptischinensisFranch.)(3g), the potential mechanism and signal pathway underlying the and Periostracum cicadae (Cicadidae, the exuviae of effects of CKF against IBS. FrontiersinPharmacology|www.frontiersin.org 2 May2022|Volume13|Article778032 Lingetal. MGBAinIBSRats FIGURE1|Timelineofexperimentalprocedures. MATERIALS AND METHODS were approved by the Guangdong Pharmaceutical University AnimalCareandUseCommittee,China[SCXK(Yue)2017-0125]. Preparation of Chang-Kang-Fang Formula The herbal constituents of CKF were purchased from the Establishing the Rat Model of Irritable Guangdong Province Traditional Chinese Medical Hospital (Guangzhou, China), were morphologically authenticated by Bowel Syndrome Prof. H. Y. Ma following the standards of China CACS-treatedratsweresubjectedtochronicunpredictablestress Pharmacopoeia (Part I, 2020
