ORIGINALRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: ibs, ckf, doi, pubmed, rats, gut, group, pmid, pubmedpmid, epub, microbiota, pathways, etal, treatment, metabolites


of Irritable Guangdong Province Traditional Chinese Medical Hospital (Guangzhou, China), were morphologically authenticated by Bowel Syndrome Prof. H. Y. Ma following the standards of China CACS-treatedratsweresubjectedtochronicunpredictablestress Pharmacopoeia (Part I, 2020 Version). A voucher number was for21days,asillustratedinFigure1(Zouetal.,2008;Yuetal., assigned to each specimen and preserved in the School of 2015).Onday22,theseratsweresubjectedtorestraintstressfor Traditional Chinese Medicine, Guangdong Pharmaceutical 3h. The stool samples of the rats were collected within a 4h University. The procedure for synthesizing the CKF extract has period and the fecal water content and total fecal output were been described previously . Briefly, the seven calculated. After weighing (wet weight), the stool samples were herbal components of CKF (150g Paeoniae Alba Radix, 60g driedundervacuumovernightandthedryweightwasrecorded Saposhnikoviae Radix, 50g Rehmanniae Radix, 50g Cuscutae . To verify the IBS rat model, visceral Semen, 30g Coptidis Rhizoma, 80g Fagopyri Dibotryis Rhizoma, hypersensitivity was measured using the abdominal withdrawal and30gPeriostracumcicadae)wereblendedfor2hin3-volumes reflex (AWR) scoring system; depression-like behaviors were ofwater(1,350ml).Themixturewasfilteredandthefiltratewas measured using the sucrose preference and forced swimming collected(Maoetal.,2017).Finally,theliquidwascondensedand tests; upper GI transit was used to evaluate gastrointestinal concentratedto450ml(1g/ml)andstoredat4°Cuntilsubsequent motility, and the number of fecal pellets and fecal water use. For animal treatment, the solution was filtered and content was used to evaluate the severity of diarrhea in each concentrated in a vacuum at 50°C. The final concentration was group as described previously (Li et al., 2018; Xu et al., 2018). 5gcrudedrugperml.Theresultingextractwasstoredat−20°C. The CKF was performed in previous study to simultaneously Grouping and Treatment identify the major chemical components and the UPLC-Q- After acclimatization, the rats were randomly divided into the TOF-MS chromatogram of CKF obtained from its water extract followingfourgroups(n=8):Normal,IBS,CKF,andtrimebutine isshowninSupplementaryFigureS1(SupplementaryTableS1) maleate (TM) (Figure 1). TM was purchased from Shanghai (Mao etal., 2017). yuanye Bio-Technology Co., Ltd. (Shanghai, China). The rats in the normal and IBS groups were intragastrically administered Animals and Experimental Design 10ml/kg normal saline, while those in the CKF group rats were Atotalof32(6-weeksold,180–200gbodyweight)maleSprague- intragastricallyadministered5.0g/kgCKF,whileintheTMtreated Dawley(SD)ratswereobtainedfromtheCentreforExperimental group(10ml/kgbodyweight),17.0mg/kgTMwasadministered. Animals, Guangdong Province [Guangzhou, China approval These treated rats were regularly examined and changes in the number SCXK (Yue) 2017-0002]. Rats were housed in characteristics offoodintake andbody weights were recorded. controlled conditions (room temperature: 23 ± 2°C; relative humidity: 55 ± 5%, and 12-h dark/12-h light cycle) for 1week Assessment of Gastrointestinal Motility withadlibitumaccesstofoodandwater.Theanimalstudieswere Ratsineachgroupweresubjectedtofastingfor24h,followedby conducted following the guidelines for the Care and Use of an oral administration of 2ml suspension of the charcoal meal Experimental Animals. The designs of all animal experiments (10%charcoalin5%gumarabic)(Lvetal.,2011).Theseratswere FrontiersinPharmacology|www.frontiersin.org 3 May2022|Volume13|Article778032 Lingetal. MGBAinIBSRats sacrificedafter20min.Next,theabdomenwasopenedupandthe TABLE1|CriteriaforAWRscoring.
