ORIGINALRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: ibs, ckf, doi, pubmed, rats, gut, group, pmid, pubmedpmid, epub, microbiota, pathways, etal, treatment, metabolites


Care and Use of an oral administration of 2ml suspension of the charcoal meal Experimental Animals. The designs of all animal experiments (10%charcoalin5%gumarabic)(Lvetal.,2011).Theseratswere FrontiersinPharmacology|www.frontiersin.org 3 May2022|Volume13|Article778032 Lingetal. MGBAinIBSRats sacrificedafter20min.Next,theabdomenwasopenedupandthe TABLE1|CriteriaforAWRscoring. intestinesfromthepyloricjunctiontothecaecalendwerequickly Score ScorebehavioralResponses excised(Dongetal.,2014).Afterdissection,theentirelengthof toCRD theintestinesfromthepyloricjunctiontothecaecalendandthe 0 Nobehavioralresponse distance traveled by the charcoal meal were measured. The 1 Occasionallytwisttheirheads percentage of the distance traveled by the charcoal meal to the 2 Abdominalmusclescontractedslightly total length of the pyloric junction to the caecal end was the 3 Liftingofabdomen measure of the upper GI transit . 4 Bodyarchingandliftingofftheground Assessment of Abdominal Withdrawal Reflex 4°C. The supernatant was collected and the levels of 5-HT and The visceral sensitivity to colorectal distention (CRD) was BDNF in the colonic and hippocampal tissues were measured evaluated by measuring the AWR following a previously using ELISA kits following the manufacturer’s instructions described protocol (Al-Chaer et al., 2000; Winston et al., (Shanghai MLBIO Biotechnology Co., Ltd.). 2007). Before the procedure, rats were allowed free access for drinking but were food-deprived for 24h. Next, the rats were Detection by Real-Time Quantitative PCR lightlyanesthetizedwith2%isoflurane,followedbyinsertionof Total RNA was extracted from the distal colon and hippocampal an8Fcatheterthroughtheanusafterlubricationwithparaffinoil. samples using the Trizol reagent (Accuratse Biology Co., Ltd., Throughout,weensured,bytapingtheassociatedtubingontothe China), followed by cDNA synthesis using the PrimeScriptTM rattail,that1cmofatubewasleftbetweentheendofthegasbag RT reagent Kit with a gDNA Eraser (Accuratse Biology Co., Ltd., andanus(Yuetal.,2015;Gongetal.,2015;Xuetal.,2019).Rats China) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Next, the were subsequently placed in Lucite cubicles (20cm × 8cm × mRNA levels of individual genes were determined through real- 8cm)andallowedtoacclimatizetotheenvironmentfor20min timePCRusingthe2×SYBRGreenProTaqHSpremix(Accuratse (after awakening) before the test . After Biology Co., Ltd., China) on the CFX Connect fluorescence acclimatization, the rats were subjected to distention pressures quantitative PCR detection platform (BIO-RAD, United States). (10,20,30,and40mmHg)for20switha5-minintervalbetween The 20µl PCR reaction mixture comprised of the following different pressures. Finally, the AWR scores were determined components: 10µl 2 × SYBR Green Pro Taq HS Premix, 0.4µl accordingtoasdetailedinTable1(Yuetal.,2019;Lietal.,2020). forwardprimer(10µM),0.4µlreverseprimer(10µM),2µlreaction solution(cDNA),and7.2µlRNasefreewater.Thestandardprotocol Sucrose Preference Test forashuttlePCRwasasfollows:stage1includedonecycleofinitial Sucrosepreferencetestwasperformedbyprovidingtheratswith denaturationat95°Cfor30s;stage2included40cyclesofthePCRat both 1% sucrose solution and double distilled water for 2days 95°Cfor5sand60°Cfor30s,andstage3wasthedissociationstep. . Briefly, rats were individually housed and The data were evaluated according to the comparative threshold werefood-andwater-deprivedfor24h(Nadaletal.,1996).On cycle(Cq)value.Finally,therelativelevelsofmRNAexpressionof5- thefollowingday,ratswerefreetochoosebetweenwaterand1% HT1A, PKA, CREB, and BDNF were normalized against that of sucrose solution. The sucrose preference was determined glyceraldehyde-3-phosphatedehydrogenase(GAPDH)mRNAand according to the ratio of the sugar solution consumed to that calculated using the 2 −ΔΔCT method. The primers used in this of the water (water and sucrose solution). experimentaslistedinTable2. Forced Swimming Test Immunohistochemistry Ratsweresubjectedto15minoftrainingforforcedswimmingin Ratsweresacrificedattheendoftheexperiments.Brainandcolon aglasscylinder24hbeforetheformaltest(height=45cmand tissues were
