ORIGINALRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: ibs, ckf, doi, pubmed, rats, gut, group, pmid, pubmedpmid, epub, microbiota, pathways, etal, treatment, metabolites


targets were identified after ascertaining the stored at −80°C until further analyses. Subsequently, bacterial molecular targets associated with IBS and depression and were genomic DNA was extracted from the frozen stool samples utilized for further analysis. Third, an interaction network was using the Qiagen QIAamp DNA stool Mini Kit (Hilden, constructed for the identified targets using the STRING database Germany) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Next, ( to systematically elucidate the mechanism conventional PCR was performed to amplify the 16S rRNA in underlying the effects of CKF(3). Fourth, to explain the potential theV3-V4region(341F-805R,F:GATCCTACGGGAGGCAGCA; roleoftheactivecomponentsinCKFingenefunctionandsignaling R: GCTTACCGCGGCTGCTGGC). Following were the PCR pathways in the rat model, gene ontology (GO) enrichment and conditions: initial denaturation at 98°C for 1min, followed by Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway 30cyclesofdenaturationat98°Cfor10s,annealingat50°Cfor30s, analyses were performed for the hub genes using the Database andelongationat72°Cfor60swithafinalholdat72°Cfor5min. for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery (DAVID, SampleswerethenpurifiedusingtheMinEluteGelExtractionKit tools for functional (Qiagen, China), and samples with lengths of 400–450bps were enrichment analysis . Species and background chosen for further experiments. Next, sequencing libraries were werelimitedtoRattusnorvegicus(rat).Theresultswerethenplotted generatedusingtheNEBNextUltraDNALibraryPrepKitfrom using the tools in Bioinformatics Web Server ( Illumina (NEB, United States) following the manufacturer’s bioinformatics.com.cn), an online platform for data analysis and protocol. After the addition of the index codes, high-throughput visualization. Moreover, the gene-pathway network was pyrosequencing was performed for the PCR products on the constructed to screen the key genes targeted by CKF and Illumina MiSeq/HiSeq2500 platform (Biomarker Technologies relevant in the treatment of IBS and depression. To show the Co., Ltd., Beijing, China). The QIIME software package (18.0 relationship among CKF active components,the hubtargets, and version) was employed to identify the operational taxonomic KEGGpathways,aSankeydiagramwasconstructedusingthetools units (OTUs) and the RDP classifier was used to annotate the ofBioinformaticsWebServer( taxonomicinformationforeachrepresentativesequenceusingthe Greengenes database (13.5 version). The weighted UniFrac Statistical Analysis distance-based principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) and binary All statistical analyses were performed using the SPSS Statistics Jaccard pair group method with arithmetic mean (UPGMA) 17.0software,andalldatawerepresentedasmean±SD.One-way clustering were performed using the QIIME software package. analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used for multiple Finally, toidentifythe biomarker speciesin differentgroups, the comparisons. p < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. lineardiscriminantanalysiseffectsize(LEfSe)wasestimatedusing To demonstrate the relationships between parameters, the Metastats software. PICRUSt (Phylogenetic Investigation of Spearman’s correlation was measured. The correlation Communities by Reconstruction of Unobserved States, http:// coefficient was always in the range of +1 to −1. The closer was picrust.github.io/picrust/) is a bioinformatic software package theabsolutevalueofthecorrelationcoefficientto1,thecloserwas designed to predict
