ORIGINALRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: ibs, ckf, doi, pubmed, rats, gut, group, pmid, pubmedpmid, epub, microbiota, pathways, etal, treatment, metabolites


regulatory pathways, thereby suggesting that the Molecular Biology Indicators, Serum metabolites enriched in tryptophan and butanoate metabolism may substantially regulate the gut microbiota in Metabolites, and Gut Microbiota CKFandIBSgroups.Takentogether,thesefindingssuggested PICRUStanalysisbasedonthe16SrRNAgenesequencedatawas that serum metabolites effectively responded to both IBS and usedtoinvestigate thegut microbiome functions related to CKF CKF administration and that IBS-induced serum metabolism treatment.Thepotentialmetabolicfunctionsofthegutmicrobiota aberrations were improved by CKF treatment. may be attributed to the alterations in bacterial taxa. The gut Moreover, 36 metabolites were significantly differentially microbiotafunctionswereanalyzedusingtheKEGGdatabase.As expressed in the sera of rats in the CKF group as compared to shown in Figure 12A, 15 different functional pathways were the normal group (Supplementary Table S6). The altered identified between the Normal and IBS groups. Those involved metabolites and differential metabolic pathways were identified in phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan biosynthesis were by KEGG analysis. This analysis suggested their involvement in upregulated, while the pathways involved in taurine and 17 metabolic pathways (Supplementary Table S7). Among them, hypotaurine metabolism were downregulated in the IBS rats. themetabolite-relatedpathwayswereenrichedintyrosineandlactic CKF treatment downregulated phenylalanine, tyrosine, and acid metabolism pathways (Supplementary Figure S2 and tryptophan biosynthesis pathways, whereas upregulated SupplementaryTableS7). D-glutamine and D-glutamate metabolism, along with the cAMP signaling pathway (Figure 12B). Additionally, we Systematic Investigation of the Mechanism structured the metabolism-protein networks and identified the serum metabolites and CKF key protein targets involved in the of Chang-Kang-Fang Formula in the cAMP signaling pathway (Figure 11B). The 5-HT-PKA-CREB- Treatment of Irritable Bowel Syndrome and BDNF axis was involved in the cAMP signaling pathway. The Depression-Like Behavior serummetabolitesandCKFkeyproteintargetswerealsoinvolved A complete literature search of the CKF mix resulted in the in the neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction and serotonergic identification of 55 chemical constituents and 767 putative synapses(SupplementaryFigures S3A,B).TheCKF key protein protein targets, of which, 92 targets were ascertained to be target(5-HT1A)wasalsoinvolved inserotonergicsynapses.The associated with IBS and depression-like behaviors key serum metabolites (l-glutamate, taurine) were also found to (Figure 10A). Next, a PPI network was constructed to participate in neuroactiveligand-receptorinteractions. examine the interaction between CKF-related hub genes in The relationships among host phenotypes, serum IBS and CKF-known therapeutic hub genes for IBS. The metabolites, and the gut microbiota were comprehensively parameters for network construction were set at high analyzed. The correlation matrix was generated by calculating confidence (interaction score ≥0.7) and the disconnected Spearman’s correlation coefficient (Supplementary Figure S4 nodes were excluded from the network. The PPI network and Supplementary Table S8). In the correlation consisted of 92 nodes and
