ORIGINALRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: ibs, ckf, doi, pubmed, rats, gut, group, pmid, pubmedpmid, epub, microbiota, pathways, etal, treatment, metabolites


and the disconnected Spearman’s correlation coefficient (Supplementary Figure S4 nodes were excluded from the network. The PPI network and Supplementary Table S8). In the correlation consisted of 92 nodes and 324 edges, and the two-fold between serum metabolites and gut microbiota, FrontiersinPharmacology|www.frontiersin.org 14 May2022|Volume13|Article778032 Lingetal. MGBAinIBSRats FIGURE10|Targetnetworkanalysis.(A)Venndiagramofintersectionofthedrugtargetsanddiseaseproteins.(B)Protein-proteininteractionnetworkoftarget genes.(C)GOtermsforthecandidatetargetsofCKFinIBS;thetop10GOfunctionalcategoriesareshown.(D)KEGGpathwayenrichmentanalysisforthecandidate targetsofCKFinIBS.Thesizesofthecirclesrepresentthenumberofgenesandthecolorrepresentsthesignificance(p-value). uncultured_bacterium_f_Lachnospiraceae were found to be mRNA expressions of 5-HT1A, BDNF, PKA, and CREB in the negatively correlated with tryptophan-related metabolites hippocampus.5-HTandBDNFconcentrationsinthecolonwere (indoleacetaldehyde), neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction- positively correlated with Clostridiales and related metabolite (taurine), and butanoate-related metabolite uncultured_bacterium_f_Lachnospiraceae, whereas negatively (L-glutamic acid), whereas two bacterial genera, including correlated with 5-HT and BDNF concentrations, the mRNA Dubosiella and Lactobacillus, showed a positive correlation expressions of 5-HT1A, BDNF, PKA, and CREB in the with the corresponding aforementioned serum metabolites. hippocampus. The gut microbiota could thus significantly Clostridiales was found to be negatively correlated with affect the host phenotypes, molecular biology indicators, and indoleacetaldehyde and taurine and Corynebacteriales was metabolite concentrations. found to be positively correlated with serotonin. Forgutmicrobiotaandphenotypes,20mmgAWRScoreand GItransitwerefoundtobenegativelycorrelatedwithDubosiella DISCUSSION andLactobacillus,whereaspositivelycorrelatedwithClostridiales and uncultured_bacterium_f_Lachnospiraceae. Sucrose IBS is a disease characterized by abdominal pain, which is Preference were found to be positively correlated with usuallyaccompaniedbybloatingandchangesinbowelhabits Dubosiella and Lactobacillus, whereas negatively correlated . Similar to other dysfunctions, IBS is with Clostridiales, uncultured_bacterium_f_Ruminococcaceae associated with a high incidence of mental illness, with and uncultured_bacterium_f_Lachnospiraceae. Clostridiales and some studies reporting that approximately 90% of IBS CorynebacterialeswerefoundtobepositivelycorrelatedwithFST patients suffer from anxiety and major depression (MDD) immobility time. (Lydiard, 2001; Friedrich et al., 2010). Generally, it is known For gut microbiota and indicators of molecular biology, that the gut function is regulated by the central nervous including the concentrations of 5-HT and BDNF in the colon system. In reflex regulation and emotional control, signals werefoundtobenegativelycorrelatedwithLactobacillus,whereas from sensory sources influence the brain. Memory and positively correlated with 5-HT and BDNF concentrations, the cognition due to stress alter the inputs, which are then FrontiersinPharmacology|www.frontiersin.org 15 May2022|Volume13|Article778032 Lingetal. MGBAinIBSRats FIGURE11|Metabolism-proteinnetworks.(A)SankeydiagramoftheinteractionbetweenbotanicaldrugsofCKF,majorhubgenes,andmainpathways.Note: thebotanicaldrugs,majorhubgenes,andmainpathwaysareshownindifferentcolors.Theheightoftherectangleandthewidthoftheconnectinglinearepositively correlatedwiththenumberoftheotherrectanglesthattheyareconnectedto.(B)Metabolism-proteinnetworksforcAMPsignalingpathway.○Metabolites█Keyprotein targets. integratedintoneuralcircuitsoftheCNS,autonomicnervous disorders, abnormal intestinal motility, and visceral system (ANS), and enteric nervous system (ENS) (Kirkup hypersensitivity (Mineur et al., 2007; Ping et al., 2014; Yu et al., 2001; Drossman et al., 2002). Animal models of etal.,2015;Moloneyetal.,2016;Xuetal.,2018).Thefindings chronic and acute stress have been extensively utilized to ofthepresentstudysuggestedthatCACSinductioninratsfor unravel the biological mechanisms underlying affective and 22daysresultedinaseriesofabnormalitiesbothaffectiveand somatic disorders. Animals with CACS have emotional somatic dysfunctions, i.e., the occurrence of diarrhea, FrontiersinPharmacology|www.frontiersin.org 16 May2022|Volume13|Article778032 Lingetal. MGBAinIBSRats FIGURE12|Functionalpredictionsforthealteredgutmicrobiota.DifferentialKEGGpathwaysoncomparingIBSvs.Normalgroups(A)andCKFvs.IBS groups(B). depression- and anxiety-like behaviors, gastrointestinal previousreportsonvisceralhyperalgesiainananimalmodelof
