ORIGINALRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: ibs, ckf, doi, pubmed, rats, gut, group, pmid, pubmedpmid, epub, microbiota, pathways, etal, treatment, metabolites


affective and 22daysresultedinaseriesofabnormalitiesbothaffectiveand somatic disorders. Animals with CACS have emotional somatic dysfunctions, i.e., the occurrence of diarrhea, FrontiersinPharmacology|www.frontiersin.org 16 May2022|Volume13|Article778032 Lingetal. MGBAinIBSRats FIGURE12|Functionalpredictionsforthealteredgutmicrobiota.DifferentialKEGGpathwaysoncomparingIBSvs.Normalgroups(A)andCKFvs.IBS groups(B). depression- and anxiety-like behaviors, gastrointestinal previousreportsonvisceralhyperalgesiainananimalmodelof hypomotility, and hypersensitivity, thereby mimicking the IBS (Al-Chaer et al., 2000; Yu et al., 2012). It reported that symptoms of patients with IBS. processes underlying chronic and acute stress can mimic the In addition, IBS models show various phenotypic changes, pathophysiological changes in IBS . The tests indicating the presence of a combination of depression and conducted in this study demonstrated the impact of CKF on functional bowel disease. Several studies show that IBS can IBS. The CACS animal model showed multiple phenotypic trigger depression-like behaviors. Results showed that the changes, indicating the coexistence of depression and sucrose preference ratio reduced and immobility time in the functional bowel disease. Given the results, to the best of our FSTincreasedinIBSrats(NessandGebhart,1988;Yuetal.,2015; knowledge, we are the first to determine whether CKF can Xu et al., 2018; Yu et al., 2019). AWR is a semi-quantitative improve IBS-like behavior to an extent comparable to TM. method for measuring the involuntary movement reflex in Indeed, TM, an antispasmodic drug, could improve the response to visceral pain. The CACS model showed increased peripheral dysfunctional symptoms of IBS more effectively visceral toxicity to CRD at different intensities, consistent with and the weights of the rats were closer to the normal group, FrontiersinPharmacology|www.frontiersin.org 17 May2022|Volume13|Article778032 Lingetal. MGBAinIBSRats visceral sensitivity, total fecal output, fecal water content, and of 5-HT, 5-HT1A, PKA, CREB, and BDNF increased in the intestinal operation were comparable to the CKF group. In hippocampus and decreased in the colon, thereby indicating termsofantidepressant-likebehaviors(SPTandFST),5.0g/kg that CKF can alleviate the symptoms of IBS rats by modulating CKFwasclosertothenormalgroupthantheTMgroup.CKF the brain-gut axis through the 5-HT1A-PKA-CREB-BDNF not only reduced CACS-induced intestinal sensitivity, like in pathway. bowel movement and CRD behavioral tests but also triggered To study the change in microbiota composition, a 16S rRNA antidepressant effects, as shown by the results of the SPT and sequencingwasalsoperformed.Theresultssuggestedanincreasein FST. These findings suggested that CKF treatment could the alpha diversity of gut microbiota in the IBS group, having a reverse IBS-induced intestinal sensitivity and depression-like higher Shannon index as compared to the normal group. behaviors.Additionally,weconductedpreliminaryexperiments Nevertheless, CKF treatment decreased the diversity. In a (n=6),andtheantidepressant-likebehaviorsatamediumdose previous study on the gut-microbiota-brain axis involving IBS (2.5g/kg)ofCKFwerenotstatisticallysignificantascompared patients,higher alpha diversitywas found inIBSpatients,and for to those in the IBS group (Supplementary Table
