ORIGINALRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: ibs, ckf, doi, pubmed, rats, gut, group, pmid, pubmedpmid, epub, microbiota, pathways, etal, treatment, metabolites


treatment decreased the diversity. In a (n=6),andtheantidepressant-likebehaviorsatamediumdose previous study on the gut-microbiota-brain axis involving IBS (2.5g/kg)ofCKFwerenotstatisticallysignificantascompared patients,higher alpha diversitywas found inIBSpatients,and for to those in the IBS group (Supplementary Table S9). the first time, through this study, the brain structural alterations As shown in Figure 3, 5-HT is mainly found in the associatedwithIBSsubgroupsandthecorrelationsoftheabundance enterochromaffin cells (EC) in the intestinal endothelium; to a of certain microbial taxa with early psychosocial stress were lesser extent, it is present in the intermuscular and submucosal identified . A study shows that fecal plexusoftheENS.Mutualbrain-gutinteractions,includingthe5- microbiota diversity is rich in IBS-D patients relative to the HTpathway,significantlyaffecttheeffectorsystem.5-HTplaysa healthy group and there are alterations in Bacteroidales and critical role in the intestines, where it regulates movement and Clostridiales at the order levels. As Bacteroidales and Clostridiales sensory events in the GI tract by activating different 5-HT maybeinvolvedinthepathophysiologyofIBS-D,inourstudy,IBS receptors, which are also emotional conductors in the was found to be enriched in Clostridiales as compared to both hippocampus. Our findings suggested that 5-HT concentration Normal and CKF groups S . Some studies markedly reduced in the hippocampus of the IBS rats in indicatethatbeneficialbacterialspecies(Lactobacillus)areassociated comparison to the normal group, however, that in the colon withareductioninharmfulbacteria(Clostridium)(Distruttietal., increased. Visceral hyperalgesia in rats with early stress is 2016). Among the differential markers in our study, IBS was associated with the increase in 5-HT expression in colonic enriched in Clostridiales (order) as compared to both Normal stress responses. Serotonergic neurons are located in the median and CKF groups, while Normal and CKF were enriched in raphe nucleus, which affects the spinal cord and brainstem and Lactobacilli relativetoIBS(genes). participates in the central pain regulation (Gershon and Tack, Moreover, PCoA and system clustering trees showed 2007).5-HT1Areceptorshavereceivedgreatattentionamongthe substantial distances between each group, indicating that the serotonin receptor subtypes for the treatment of IBS as they beta diversity of gut microbiota in the CKF group differed modulate the pathogenesis of depression and the anti- significantly from that in the IBS group. Based on recent depression responses . A previous group studies, a high ratio of Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes (F-B ratio) alsohypothesizedthattheymediatevisceralsensitivityinthegut is closely associated with the IBS group. Herein, the findings (Bueno and Fioramonti, 2002). Results obtained in this study suggestedthattheF-BratiowashigherintheIBSgrouprelativeto suggested that CKF can alleviate hyperalgesia and thenormalrats,andCKFtreatmentdecreasedtheF-Bratiointhe antidepressant-like behaviors by modulating the 5-HT system in IBS rats. However, the results also showed that the relative a rat model of CACS. Given that altered cAMP signaling is
