ORIGINALRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: ibs, ckf, doi, pubmed, rats, gut, group, pmid, pubmedpmid, epub, microbiota, pathways, etal, treatment, metabolites


thenormalrats,andCKFtreatmentdecreasedtheF-Bratiointhe antidepressant-like behaviors by modulating the 5-HT system in IBS rats. However, the results also showed that the relative a rat model of CACS. Given that altered cAMP signaling is abundance of Lactobacillus was lower in the IBS group relative associated with major depression and GI dysfunction (Cowburn to the normal rats. Moreover, CKF treatment increased the et al., 1994), it is a potential target for the treatment of IBS relative abundance of Lactobacillus, which has been previously results in an increased sensitivity of the cAMP-dependent (Fan et al., 2006; Sinn et al., 2008). protein kinase (PKA), thereby triggering downstream cAMP SCFAs, in particular, butanoate, can increase the production signaling proteins such as CREB. Phosphorylation of CREB of Lactobacillus and are the main metabolites of the gut modulates the transcriptional activity and enhances the microbiota (Pouteau et al., 2003; Dalile et al., 2019). expression of BDNF, resulting in antidepressant and Abnormal changes in SCFAs are associated with IBS as neuroprotective effects (Reichardt, 2006; Yossifoff et al., 2008). they are the key signaling molecules that regulate The BDNF gene contains the cAMP response element (CRE), intestinal functions . Furthermore, the which binds to phosphorylated CREB, thereby increasing its imbalance in the gut microbiota of IBS patients directly transcription. Moreover, elevated BDNF in the colon, caused affects the normal signaling interactions among the gut due to increased colorectal dilatation, has also been observed in microbiota, SCFAs, and intestinal epithelial cells (Zhu IBSpatients(Yuetal.,2012).Interestingly,thelevelsof5-HT1A, et al., 2019). Lactobacillus may also modulate cognitive PKA, CREB, and BDNF decreased significantly in the impairment, anxiety, and depression because it has hippocampus of IBS rats, while elevated expressions were positive impacts on the CNS through the modulation of observed in their colons. This finding suggested that neuroinflammation . Lactobacillus psychological stress could indirectly induce excessive arousal of strains influence CNS-related functions and behaviors thecolonbyinactivatingtheCNS.AfterCKFtreatment,thelevels mediated by the MGBA via immune, humoral, neural, and FrontiersinPharmacology|www.frontiersin.org 18 May2022|Volume13|Article778032 Lingetal. MGBAinIBSRats metabolic pathways to improve intestinal functions and produced directly by the activity of tryptophanase in antidepressant effects . Escherichia coli and Lactobacillus . We found that 5-HT pathways are also involved in the Disorders due to tryptophan metabolism are caused by the gut bidirectional MGBA interactions with profound effects on the microbiota, and thus, the intermediate tryptophan (5-HT) can effectorsystems(Figure3),anda changeinthemicrobiota could activate the brain-gut nerve responses, leading to diarrhea improve 5-HT-related disease symptoms . (Spencer and Hu, 2020; Ming
