ORIGINALRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: ibs, ckf, doi, pubmed, rats, gut, group, pmid, pubmedpmid, epub, microbiota, pathways, etal, treatment, metabolites


the microbiota, and thus, the intermediate tryptophan (5-HT) can effectorsystems(Figure3),anda changeinthemicrobiota could activate the brain-gut nerve responses, leading to diarrhea improve 5-HT-related disease symptoms . (Spencer and Hu, 2020; Ming et al., 2021). Clostridium Interestingly, the indigenous microbiota also modulates converts tryptophan into tryptamine, indolelactic acid (ILA), hippocampal 5-HT levels by influencing the availability of and indolepropionic acid (IPA) (Roager and Licht, 2018). In tryptophan, the 5-HT precursor, suggesting a role of the enterochromaffin cells, tryptamine induces the release of 5-HT. microbiota in regulating the serotonergic system of the brain Moreover, natural taurine reduces the abundance of Clostridia (Clarke et al., 2013; Yano et al., 2015). Several previous studies . The functional capabilities of the microbial report that ingestion of Bifidobacteria or Lactobacilli beneficially communitieswereanalyzedbyPICRUSt.Thepathwaysinvolved disrupts either anxiety or depression-like behaviors, both under in phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan biosynthesis were pathological conditions and in healthy animals (Desbonnet et al., upregulated, whereas taurine and hypotaurine metabolism 2010;Bravoetal.,2011;Messaoudietal.,2011).Apreviousstudy were downregulated in the IBS rats. Thus, the increase in shows that Lactobacillus both decreased the abundance of Clostridium abundance may be associated with tryptophan Firmicutes, Clostridia, and Clostridiales, along with a marked biosynthesis and taurine metabolism in IBS rats. Additionally, decrease in the level of colonic 5-HT as compared to the rat pathways involved in the cAMP signaling pathway and model with chronic unpredictable mild stress . At D-glutamate metabolism were also upregulated, whereas theorderlevel,IBSwasenrichedinClostridiales(order)ascompared phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan biosynthesis were toNormalandCKFgroups,andinCorynebacteriales.IntheCKF downregulated in the CKF group. The reduction in the group,theabundanceofClostridiales(order)andCorynebacteriales abundance of Clostridium may downregulate tryptophan (order) decreased significantly. Corynebacterium spp. directly biosynthesis and taurine metabolism, while the increase in produces serotonin in the gut . Clostridium, Lactobacillus may upregulate the cAMP signaling pathway and belonging to the genus of Firmicutes and Clostridia, including D-glutamatemetabolismintheCKFgroup.Weplantoexamine 221 types, produces tryptamine prompting colonic 5-HT the correlation between the metabolites and gut microbiota by biosynthesis(Parte,2014;Xiaoetal.,2021). fecal transplantation assays in the future. Further,weanalyzedtheserummetabolites,sincethesewere Additionally,thedifferentialgutmicrobesandmetabolitesof the products of metabolic activity of the host and microbiome, Normalvs.CKFgroupswereanalyzed.Ourresultssuggestedthat and the results showed that the CKF significantly affected the Lachnospiraceae_NK4A136,_Eubacterium__coprostanoligenes serum metabolite levels, including amino acids (tryptophan, was enriched in the Normal group, whereas the proportion of glutamate, taurine, hypotaurine, histidine, alanine, aspartate, LactobacillusintheCKFgroupwasgreaterrelativetotheNormal glutamate, arginine, and proline), SCFAs-related metabolism group.Moreover,differentmetaboliteswereenrichedintyrosine (butanoate), and 5-HT related metabolic pathways andlacticacidmetabolismpathways.Lactobacilluscaninfluence (neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction, cAMP signaling tyrosineandlacticacidmetabolism(Pessione,2012).Thus,CKF pathway, and serotonergic synapses). In particular, CKF relievingIBSmaynotsimplyrestorethegutmicrobiotatonormal treatment altered the concentrations of serotonin, levels.
