ORIGINALRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: ibs, ckf, doi, pubmed, rats, gut, group, pmid, pubmedpmid, epub, microbiota, pathways, etal, treatment, metabolites


metabolism group.Moreover,differentmetaboliteswereenrichedintyrosine (butanoate), and 5-HT related metabolic pathways andlacticacidmetabolismpathways.Lactobacilluscaninfluence (neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction, cAMP signaling tyrosineandlacticacidmetabolism(Pessione,2012).Thus,CKF pathway, and serotonergic synapses). In particular, CKF relievingIBSmaynotsimplyrestorethegutmicrobiotatonormal treatment altered the concentrations of serotonin, levels. Indeed, CKF may markedly increase the proportion of indoleacetaldehyde, taurine, and L-glutamic acid. Further, the uncultured_bacterium_g_Lactobacillus. resultsshowedthattheIBSmodelwasassociatedwithareduction Systempharmacologyprovideseasyparadigmsintraditional inserumindoleacetaldehyde,taurine,andL-glutamicacidlevels, Chinesemedicineresearchtoassessthemulti-targetinfluencesof whileCKFtreatmentcouldsignificantlyelevatetheselevels.We drug action and theoretical perception underlying biological alsoexaminedthecorrelationofCKFwithserummetabolitesand network functioning (Ren et al., 2014; Yu et al., 2015). To gutmicrobiota.Indoleacetaldehyde,taurine,andL-glutamicacid better understand the molecular modes of the therapeutic werenegativelycorrelatedwiththeDubosiellaandLactobacillus effects of CKF on IBS and depression-like behaviors, six genera. Clostridiales were negatively correlated with pathways closely associated with 5-HT-BDNF were used to Indoleacetaldehyde and taurine, whereas Corynebacteriales evaluate the relationship among the components, targets, and positively correlated with serotonin. These findings suggested pathways. We identified 17 chemical ingredients and 25 that the gut microbiota influenced serum metabolism. molecular targets. This suggested that multiple targets of the Furthermore, the possible biomarkers related to gut microbiota samechemicalordifferentchemicalshavingthesametargetcan wereexaminedtobetterunderstandthetherapeuticvalueofCKF more critically influence the entire network balance, thereby which could modulate the microbiota-gut-brain axis via 5-HT- improving the efficacy of CKF treatment. In addition, the 25 BDNF related pathways, and for IBS and depression-like molecular targets included CREB1 and 5-HT1A, which are behaviors. Recently, several studies have shown that the gut known to be closely associated with the 5-HT-PKA-CREB- microbial species produce multiple tryptophan catabolites BDNF-related pathways. These findings were consistent with through different metabolic pathways (Figure 3). Indoles and those of the serum metabolome-associated pathways which indole derivatives, such as indole-3-aldehyde, indole-3- demonstrated the associated pathways enriched with 5-HT- acetaldehyde, and indoleacrylic acid, are bioactive substances related metabolic pathways (neuroactive ligand-receptor FrontiersinPharmacology|www.frontiersin.org 19 May2022|Volume13|Article778032 Lingetal. MGBAinIBSRats interaction, cAMP signaling pathway, and serotonergic ETHICS STATEMENT synapses). L-glutamate and taurine were also involved in neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction. TheanimalstudywasreviewedandapprovedbytheGuangdong oftheCKFmixtureinimprovingIBSanddepression-likebehaviors. China [SCXK (Yue) 2017-0125]. TreatmentwithCKFsignificantlyamelioratedtheabove-mentioned central nervous and peripheral symptoms in our model rats, and theseeffectscouldbeattributedtothedifferentialregulationof5-HT AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS in the brain vs. intestine. Thus, the comparison between IBS and CKFgroupsshowedthe“preventative”ameliorationeffectsofCKF FCandXLconceivedanddesignedresearch;LGandYXprepared forIBSintheCACSanimalmodel.Ourresultsdemonstratedthat CKF;SPandXLperformedexperiments;SPandJZanalyzedthe CKF significantly improved CACS-induced psychiatric and data;XLdraftedthemanuscript;FCandSPeditedandrevisedthe gastrointestinal dysfunctions, which further showed the manuscript. XJ, SP, XL, JZ, LG, YX, and FC have read and “preventative” therapeutic value of CKF for CNS disorders approved the final version of the manuscript. related to the IBS symptoms. The mechanism underlying CKF effects was examined using the LC-MS-based metabolomic approach in combination with multivariate data analysis. CKF FUNDING was found to play a regulatory role
