Chapter 17: Acute Metabolic Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypoglycemia, type, patients, type diabetes, diabetic, children, dka, insulin, ketoacidosis, care, study, risk, glucose, diabetes care


and during the course of type 2 diabetes. DKA is caused by very low levels of effec­ tive circulating insulin and a concomitant increase in counterregulatory hormones levels, such as glucagon, catecholamines, cortisol, and growth hormone. This combination leads to catabolic changes in the metabolism of carbohydrates, fat, and protein. Impaired glucose utilization and increased glucose production by the liver and kidneys result in hyperglycemia. Lipolysis leads to increased production of ketones, especially beta-hydroxybu­ tyrate (β-OHB), ketonemia, and metabolic acidosis, which is exaggerated by ongoing fluid and electrolyte losses. At the time of diagnosis, DKA is caused by underlying progressive beta cell failure in previously undiagnosed type 1 diabetes patients. In established patients, insulin omission, inadequate insulin dosing during infection, gastrointestinal illness, trauma and stress, or pump failure can precipitate DKA. In type 2 diabetes patients, DKA occurs during concomitant acute illness or during transition to insulin dependency. DEFINITION The American Diabetes Association (1,2), the International Society for Pediatric and Adolescent Diabetes (3), and jointly the European Society for Paediatric Endocrinology and the Lawson Wilkins Pediatric Endocrine Society (4) agreed to define DKA as a triad of: § hyperglycemia, i.e., plasma glucose >250 mg/dL (>13.88 mmol/L) § venous pH <7.3 and/or bicarbonate <15 mmol/L § moderate or large ketone levels in urine or blood In addition, pediatric experts agree that a lower level of hyperglycemia (>200 mg/dL [>11.10 mmol/L]) also meets criteria for DKA. Combination of near-normal glucose levels and ketoacidosis (“euglycemic ketoacidosis”) has been reported in preg­ nant adolescents, very young or partially treated children (5), and children fasting during a period of insulin deficiency (6). Administrative data sets use International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision (ICD-9) or Tenth Revision (ICD-10), codes to categorize diabetes and diabetic complications. The ICD-9 code for DKA is 250.1x (250.10–250.13). However, the code 250.3 (diabetes with other coma) is used for DKA coma, as well as for coma caused by severe hypoglycemia. In the ICD-10 categories for diabetes (E10–E14), subdivision E1x.1 denotes DKA, while E1x.0 denotes coma with or without keto­ acidosis, hyperosmolar or hypoglycemic (x digit is used to define type of diabetes). 17–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition The incidence of DKA varies with the definition; therefore, it is important to standardize criteria for comparative epide­ miologic studies. PREVALENCE OF DIABETIC KETOACIDOSIS AT THE DIAGNOSIS OF DIABETES In the United States, the large, popula­ tion-based SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth study
