Chapter 17: Acute Metabolic Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypoglycemia, type, patients, type diabetes, diabetic, children, dka, insulin, ketoacidosis, care, study, risk, glucose, diabetes care


(25). INCIDENCE OF DIABETIC KETOACIDOSIS IN ESTABLISHED DIABETES The incidence of DKA in children and adolescents with established type 1 diabetes ranges from 1 to 12 episodes per 100 person-years (26,27,28). The incidence of DKA among children and adolescents increases significantly with age in females, but not in males (26). There are no comparable population- based data for adults. In Rochester, the incidence rate was 8 per 1,000 person- years for DKA at all ages and was higher, reaching 13.4 per 1,000 person-years, among diabetic persons who were diagnosed before age 30 years (25). In the Rhode Island Hospital Study, the incidence of DKA among diabetic patients of all ages was 4.6 per 1,000 person-years (24). The rate was higher in women than men with diabetes. PREDICTORS AND PRECIPITATING FACTORS OF DIABETIC KETOACIDOSIS The most important risk factor for pres­ ence of DKA at diagnosis is younger age (7,27,29), with children age <2 years having three times higher risk of DKA compared to older children (8,30). Lower socioeconomic status, low family income, lack of private health insurance, and lower parental education are also risk factors for the presence of DKA at diagnosis (7,9,31,32). The frequency of DKA is also higher among ethnic minority groups (7,26). Low societal awareness of diabetes symptoms in areas with low incidence of type 1 diabetes is associated with higher risk of DKA. Family history of diabetes, particularly the presence of a first-degree relative with type 1 diabetes, shows a protective effect. A similar protec­ tive effect is observed among children involved in longitudinal etiological studies. In addition, medications (glucocorticoids, atypical antipsychotics, and diazoxide) can contribute to precipitation of DKA in individuals without a previous diabetes diagnosis (33,34). Most episodes of DKA beyond diagnosis are associated with insulin omission, pump failure, or treatment error (35,36). Parental supervision of insulin treatment in children decreases the frequency of DKA (28). Lack of adequate adjustment of insulin therapy during illness or surgery may also lead to the development of DKA (27,28,37). Socioeconomic status and insufficient access to outpatient diabetes care are often the primary precipitating factors for DKA; however, major psychiatric disorders also play a significant role (26). Continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) is effective and safe in both adults and adolescents with type 1 diabetes (38); however, CSII interruption can quickly lead to DKA (39). The incidence of DKA appears to be unchanged during long- term (4 years)
