Chapter 17: Acute Metabolic Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypoglycemia, type, patients, type diabetes, diabetic, children, dka, insulin, ketoacidosis, care, study, risk, glucose, diabetes care


one of the main goals of diabetes education. Knowledge of the signs and symptoms of diabetes, such as the classic triad of polydipsia, polyuria, and polyphagia with weight loss, is the best strategy for early detection of type 1 diabetes and preven­ tion of DKA at the time of diagnosis. Both public and health professional education should make people aware of those symptoms, as patients admitted with severe DKA are often seen hours or days earlier by health care providers who missed the diagnosis, particularly in the youngest children (69,70). The Diabetes Autoimmunity Study in the Young, an observational study following children at genetically high risk for type 1 diabetes by periodic testing for diabetes autoantibodies, glycosylated hemo­ globin (A1c), and random blood glucose, demonstrated that prevention of DKA in newly diagnosed children is possible. The prevalence of DKA at the time of diagnosis among children enrolled in this study was significantly lower compared to the community level (71). Similar find­ ings came from the Diabetes Prevention Acute Metabolic Complications in Diabetes 17–5 Trial (72). A community intervention to raise awareness of the signs and symp­ toms of childhood diabetes in the Parma region of Italy reduced the prevalence of DKA at diagnosis of type 1 diabetes from 83% to 13% (73). The effect persisted 8 years later, but there was an indication that the campaign should be periodically renewed (74). Most studies have shown that most episodes of DKA beyond disease diagnosis are preventable by identification of at-risk patients and use of targeted interventions. Comprehensive diabetes programs and telephone help lines reduced the rates of DKA from 15–60 to 5–6 per 100 patient-years (75,76,77). In the adolescent cohort of the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT), intensive diabetes management was associated with less DKA (conventional and intensive treatment groups: 4.7 and 2.8 episodes per 100 patient-years, respectively) (78). In patients treated with insulin pumps, episodes of DKA can be reduced with introduction of treatment algorithms (79). The extent to which home measurement of whole blood or urine β-OHB concentration may assist in the prevention of hospitalization should be further assessed (80). TREATMENT The goal of therapy is to correct dehy­ dration by restoring extracellular and intracellular fluid volume and correcting electrolytes imbalances, hyperglycemia, and acidosis. The recommended therapy differs between adults and children given the higher risk of development of cerebral edema in children. The pediatric recom­ mendation for
