Chapter 17: Acute Metabolic Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypoglycemia, type, patients, type diabetes, diabetic, children, dka, insulin, ketoacidosis, care, study, risk, glucose, diabetes care


events leading directly to death † In addition to the underlying cause, death certificates list up to 20 additional “multiple” causes of death. 1 Relative standard error >30%–40% for the 2009 estimates SOURCE: Number of deaths are derived from the National Vital Statistics System 2000–2009; number of people with diabetes are derived from the National Health Interview Surveys 2000–2009. 17–6 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition HYPERGLYCEMIC HYPEROSMOLAR STATE PATHOGENESIS Decrease in the effective action of circu­ lating insulin coupled with a concomitant elevation of counter regulatory hormones is the underlying mechanism for both HHS and DKA. These alterations lead to increased hepatic and renal glucose production and impaired glucose utiliza­ tion in peripheral tissues, which result in hyperglycemia and parallel changes in osmolality of the extracellular space (83). HHS is associated with glycosuria, leading to osmotic diuresis, with loss of water, sodium, potassium, and other electrolytes. In HHS, insulin levels are inadequate for glucose utilization by insulin sensitive tissues but sufficient (as determined by residual C-peptide) to prevent lipolysis and ketogenesis (83). DEFINITION HHS is defined as extreme elevation in blood glucose >600 mg/dL (>33.30 mmol/L) and serum osmolality >320 mOsm/kg in the absence of significant ketosis and acidosis. Small amounts of ketones may be present in blood and urine (84). In the ICD-9, the HHS code is 250.2: diabetes with hyperosmolarity or hyper­ osmolar (nonketotic) coma. The ICD-10 does not have a specific code for HHS; E1x.0 denotes coma with or without keto­ acidosis, hyperosmolar or hypoglycemic (x digit is used to define type of diabetes). INCIDENCE AND PREVALENCE The incidence of HHS is unknown because of the lack of population-based studies and multiple comorbidities often found in these patients. Estimated rates of hospital admissions for HHS are lower compared to DKA. HHS accounts for <1% of all admissions related to diabetes but may affect up to 4% of new type 2 diabetes patients (83). The prevalence of isolated HHS in adult patients with acute, significant hypergly­ cemia varies from 15% to 45% (85,86). HHS occurs at any age, but it is more prev­ alent in elderly patients who have additional comorbidities. Presence of other condi­ tions, such as infection, cardiovascular disease, and cancer, seems to be respon­ sible for the higher mortality associated with HHS compared to DKA (86). The incidence of HHS is most likely under­ estimated in children, as the presenting clinical picture in many patients
