Chapter 17: Acute Metabolic Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypoglycemia, type, patients, type diabetes, diabetic, children, dka, insulin, ketoacidosis, care, study, risk, glucose, diabetes care


characterized by multiple risk factors and complex patho­ physiology (105). The brain depends on a continuous supply of glucose for energy, although it can also utilize ketone bodies. Young children and adolescents are at higher risk for hypoglycemia, and the spectrum of outcomes ranges from mild cognitive impairment to coma, seizure, and sudden death. Missed meals, inadvertent insulin dosing error, and rapid insulin absorption due to intramuscular injection or hot shower/ bath shortly after injection are common causes of hypoglycemia in insulin-treated patients. Rarely, secondary gain or suicide attempt may lead to insulin overdose. In all these situations, insulin overdose reduces hepatic glucose output. Physical activity increases glucose utilization and may lead to hypoglycemia, if not matched by lowering of insulin dose and increased carbohydrate intake. Oral hypoglycemic agents may lead to hypoglycemia by either decreasing hepatic glucose output or increasing insulin levels. In contrast, enhancers of peripheral glucose utilization (thiazolidinediones) do not cause hypogly­ cemia in patients with residual insulin and glucagon secretion. Release of glucagon— the major counterregulatory response to hypoglycemia in nondiabetic persons—is progressively lost within a few years after diagnosis of type 1 diabetes. Catecholamine release, the other powerful counterregulatory mechanism, is also impaired in diabetic patients, especially in those with type 1 diabetes and those on beta blocker treatment (106). DEFINITION Various definitions of hypoglycemia are in use; for comparative epidemiologic studies, it is important to standardize criteria. The American Diabetes Association Workgroup on Hypoglycemia defined hypoglycemia broadly as all episodes of an abnormally low plasma glucose concentration that expose the individual to potential harm (107,108). According to the Workgroup, a hypoglycemic episode could be: § Severe hypoglycemia: an event requiring assistance of another person to actively administer carbohydrate, glucagon, or other resuscitative actions. The episode may lead to a significant neuroglycopenia and seizure or coma. Plasma glucose measurements may be missing during an event, but neurological recovery is sufficient evidence that the event was induced by a low plasma glucose concentration. § Documented symptomatic hypogly­ cemia: an event with typical symptoms of hypoglycemia and a measured plasma glucose concentration ≤70 mg/dL (≤3.89 mmol/L). § Asymptomatic hypoglycemia: an event with a measured plasma glucose concentration ≤70 mg/dL, but without typical symptoms of hypoglycemia. § Probable symptomatic hypoglycemia: an event during which symptoms of hypoglycemia are not accompanied by a plasma glucose determination. § Relative hypoglycemia: an event during which the person with diabetes reports any
