Chapter 17: Acute Metabolic Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypoglycemia, type, patients, type diabetes, diabetic, children, dka, insulin, ketoacidosis, care, study, risk, glucose, diabetes care


symptomatic hypoglycemia: an event during which symptoms of hypoglycemia are not accompanied by a plasma glucose determination. § Relative hypoglycemia: an event during which the person with diabetes reports any of the typical symptoms of hypoglycemia and interprets those as indicative of hypoglycemia, with a measured plasma glucose concentration >70 mg/dL. The DCCT defined severe hypoglycemia as an episode in which the patient required assistance with treatment from another person to recover; blood glucose level had to be documented as <50 mg/dL (<2.78 mmol/L) and/or the clinical manifestations had to be reversed by oral carbohydrate, subcutaneous glucagon, or intravenous glucose (109). This definition is of limited value in children, particularly the youngest, as they require assistance even for mild episodes of hypoglycemia. There is lack of a uniform definition of hypoglycemia for children and adolescents with diabetes. Most experts agree that blood glucose values <60–70 mg/dL (<3.33–3.89 mmol/L) put the patient at risk for severe hypoglycemia. Those blood glucose levels lead to alterations in the counterregulatory hormones essential to the spontaneous reversal of hypoglycemia. For clinical use, the value of <65 mg/dL (<3.61 mmol/L) has been most often used as the level for defining hypoglycemia in the pediatric population. Other studies have limited the definition of severe hypoglycemia in children to episodes leading to uncon­ sciousness or seizure (110,111). In the ICD-9, hypoglycemic coma secondary to diabetes treatment is coded 250.3; however, this code is also used for coma with DKA. Other forms of diabetic hypoglycemia are coded 250.8. Hypoglycemia not associated with diabetes is coded 251.2. An additional E code is recommended to identify the drug that induced hypoglycemia. In the ICD-10, E1x.0 denotes coma with or without keto­ acidosis, hyperosmolarity or hypoglycemia (with the x digit used to define type of diabetes), while E16.0 denotes diabetic drug-induced hypoglycemia without coma. 17–10 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition INCIDENCE IN TYPE 1 DIABETES PATIENTS The incidence of moderate or mild hypo­ glycemia is unknown; those events are frequent among patients treated with insulin and are often unrecognized or underreported. Severe hypoglycemia is more likely to be recognized. Pre-DCCT incidence rates of severe hypoglycemia varied from 3 to 86 per 100 patient-years depending on definition, age, duration of diabetes, and treatment modality (112,113,114,115,116). Among adolescents participating in the DCCT, the incidences of hypoglycemia were 86 per 100 patient-years in inten­ sively treated and 28 per 100 patient-years in conventionally treated participants
