Chapter 17: Acute Metabolic Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypoglycemia, type, patients, type diabetes, diabetic, children, dka, insulin, ketoacidosis, care, study, risk, glucose, diabetes care


hypoglycemia in pediatric populations (143,144). The addi­ tion of continuous glucose monitoring to insulin pump therapy has further lowered the rates of hypoglycemia (145,146,147). Another risk factor is the presence of hypoglycemia unawareness leading to an inability to recognize symptoms of hypogly­ cemia. It is present in about 10% of patients and is more common in patients with low average glucose levels (148,149). Even a single hypoglycemic episode can cause significant decrease in neurohormonal counterregulatory responses and worsen unawareness of hypoglycemia (150). The main effect of exercise on glucose metabolism is blood glucose lowering via insulin-independent skeletal muscle Acute Metabolic Complications in Diabetes 17–11 uptake, which may result in hypoglycemia without modification of insulin dose and intake of carbohydrates (151). Alcohol consumption is a significant risk factor for development of severe hypoglycemia. Alcohol suppresses gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis and acutely improves insulin sensitivity (152,153) and may induce hypoglycemia unawareness (154). In combination with exercise, drinking alcohol can lead to severe hypoglycemia with a delay of symptoms up to 10–12 hours after alcohol consumption (155). Family dynamics, behavioral factors, and psychiatric factors are important risk factors, particularly in the pediatric popula­ tion. The DCCT showed that conventional risk factors explained only 8.5% of the variance in the occurrence of severe hypo­ glycemia (117). Factors such as inadequate diabetes education, low socioeconomic status, lack of insurance, unstable living conditions, behavioral factors, and psychiatric disorders affecting patients and their families have been shown to have significant influence on glycemic control and the rate of hypoglycemia. Family relationships and personality type have also had a significant effect on adaptation to illness and metabolic control among persons with diabetes (156). Presence of psychiatric disorders has a detrimental effect on metabolic control (157,158) and compliance with treatment (159). Prevalence of psychiatric disorders among patients with type 1 diabetes reached 48% by 10 years of diabetes duration and age 20 years in a small longitudinal cohort (160,161), the most prevalent being major depressive disorder (28%). Prevalence of psychiatric disorders, however, has been shown to be much lower in other studies, as discussed in Chapter 33 Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes. Coexisting autoimmune conditions, such as autoimmune thyroid, celiac, and Addison’s diseases, occurring in up to 30% of patients with type 1 diabetes, increase the risk of hypoglycemia (162,163,164,165). In pregnancy with type 1 diabetes, the incidence of mild and severe hypoglycemia is highest in
