NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: arsenic, pubmed, portal, pubmed pmid, pmid, liver, portal hypertension, hypertension, cirrhosis, chronic, exposure, years, med, hepatic, year


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Arsenic. [Updated 2017 Jul 25]. Bookshelf URL: Arsenic Updated: July 25, 2017. OVERVIEW Introduction Arsenic is a nonessential trace element that is widely distributed in nature. Arsenic was used in medicinal agents in the 19th and early 20th centuries, but has been replaced by safer and more effective agents and has not been in use for over 50 years. Nevertheless, arsenic is found widely in nature and accidental or intentional acute or chronic exposures to moderate or high levels of arsenic can cause liver injury, sometimes presenting long a fter the exposure. Background Arsenic is a nonessential trace element and well known poison that is found widely in low concentrations in the environment. Typical arsenic concentrations are 2 to 5 parts per billion in soil and sea water. In the United States, the maximal allowable concentration of arsenic in well and drinking water is 50 parts per billion. Arsenic is used in pesticides and herbicides and is a byproduct of the mining of other metals, such as copper and lead. Arsenic can also contaminate herbal preparations and dietary supplements. As a consequence, occupational or accidental exposure to moderate or high doses of arsenic can occur, but are fortunately rare, at least in the United States and most of the developed world. Arsenic was formerly used medically as Fowler's solution (1% arsenic trioxide) to treat inflammatory conditions such as asthma, psoriasis and leukemia, and as various organic arsenicals such as arsphenamine (Salvarsan), mapharsen and tryparsamide to treat syphilis and protozoal infections. These agents are no longer used and have been replaced by more effective and safer agents. Arsenic is still a component of some traditional and herbal preparations and is still used to treat acute promyelocytic leukemia under the brand name Trisenox (arsenic trioxide) in intravenous doses of 10 mg daily for up to 60 days, followed by different dosing in consolidation and maintenance regimens. Hepatotoxicity Acute poisoning with arsenic is marked by severe abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, muscle cramps, metallic taste and extreme thirst, followed by stupor, coma, cardiovascular collapse and death. Death can occur within 24 hours of exposure, but with sublethal doses, survival is possible and liver injury may arise 24 to 48 hours after the acute ingestion. Other symptoms include conjunctival and respiratory tract inflammation , epistaxis, rash, renal
