NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: arsenic, pubmed, portal, pubmed pmid, pmid, liver, portal hypertension, hypertension, cirrhosis, chronic, exposure, years, med, hepatic, year


sublethal doses, survival is possible and liver injury may arise 24 to 48 hours after the acute ingestion. Other symptoms include conjunctival and respiratory tract inflammation , epistaxis, rash, renal insufficiency and painful neuropathy. The characteristics of the liver injury have not been necrosis, marked elevations in serum aminotransferase levels, early onset of hepatic failure and rapid recovery in cases without early fatality. 2 LiverTox Chronic, lower dose exposure to arsenic can be toxic and result in arsenosis, a syndrome marked by fatigue, nausea and vomiting, abdominal crampy pain, weakness, stupor, seizures and neuropathy. Skin manifestations are frequent and characteristic with chronic excessive exposure marked by hyper- and hypo-pigmentation, a "rain-drop" pattern of skin discoloration, skin dryness and exfoliation, keratosis of the palms and soles, and skin cancers. Arsenic is also deposited in the hair and nails, where it can be detected even after it is no longer measureable in urine. Liver injury can also occur with chronic arsenic exposure, typically with appearance of signs and symptoms of portal hypertension, without obvious cirrhosis (idiopathic or noncirrhotic portal and abdominal swelling and minor, nonspecific elevations in serum enzymes, followed by appearance of variceal hemorrhage or ascites. Features of portal hypertension (ascites, variceal hemorrhage) rather than hepatic failure (jaundice, encephalopathy or coagulopathy) predominate. Symptoms generally improve slowly upon withdrawal of arsenic exposure and long term survival is not uncommon, although porto-caval shunting may be needed to manage portal hypertension and variceal hemorrhage. Serum enzyme elevations and jaundice are uncommon, but may occur. Chronic exposure is usually due to environmental contamination, from elevated arsenic levels in water due to run-offs from mining or storage of arsenic containing compounds such as herbicides and pesticides. When arsenic was still being used as a medicinal agent, cases of chronic poisoning were linked to use of Fowler's solution for psoriasis and asthma and arsphenamine for syphilis generally after 5 to 25 years of use. Furthermore, some cases became clinically apparent several years after the arsenical was stopped and at a time that arsenic could no longer be detected in urine, tissue or hair samples. Chronic arsenic exposure has also been linked to cirrhosis, although the contribution of alcohol and other chronic liver diseases in reported cases could not be excluded. Chronic exposure has also been linked to liver cancer, including hepatic angiosarcoma and hepatocellular carcinoma. Other long term complications of arsenic exposure include skin discoloration, palmar and
