NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: arsenic, pubmed, portal, pubmed pmid, pmid, liver, portal hypertension, hypertension, cirrhosis, chronic, exposure, years, med, hepatic, year


not be excluded. Chronic exposure has also been linked to liver cancer, including hepatic angiosarcoma and hepatocellular carcinoma. Other long term complications of arsenic exposure include skin discoloration, palmar and plantar keratosis, peripheral neuropathy, and skin and lung cancer which can arise several decades a fter exposure. Patients presenting with noncirrhotic portal hypertension due to arsenic frequently have other manifestations of its chronic toxicity such as skin discoloration, palmar keratosis and skin cancers. Arsenic trioxide (Trisenox) given intravenously as therapy of acute promyelocytic leukemia has had limited use, but hepatotoxicity has been reported in 8% to 47% of patients, generally in the form of mild and transient serum enzyme elevations that resolve even with continuation of treatment. Nevertheless, more severe hepatic injury has the therapy were not well defined. Likelihood score: A[HD] (well known cause of chronic liver injury when given in high dosess). Mechanism of Injury Arsenic uncouples oxidative phosphorylation and is a general cytoplasmic toxin binding to and inhibiting sulfhydryl groups on essential enzymes. With acute exposures, the skin, cardiac and neurologic toxicities are Outcome and Management Arsenic poisoning is often treated with chelation, with uncertain efficacy. Both dimercaprol and succimer have documented. The major invention should be directed at detection and elimination of the source of arsenic contamination and identification of others who might be exposed in the same manner. Drug Class: Trace Elements and Metals Arsenic 3 CASE REPORT Case 1. Noncirrhotic portal hypertension attributed to arsenic exposure. [Modified from: Upshaw CB Jr, Bryant MF, Claiborne TS Jr. Noncirrhotic portal hypertension after arsenic ingestion. South Med J 1979; 72: 1332-4. PubMed Citation; Upshaw CB Jr, Claiborne TS Jr. Medicinal arsenic poisoning: 27-year follow-up. South Med J 1995; 88: 892-3. PubMed Citation] A 45 year old man developed recurrent variceal hemorrhage having taken an arsenic containing preparation for 2 years, several years in the past. He denied a history of liver disease, jaundice, alcohol abuse or risk factors for viral hepatitis. Several years in the past he had developed asthma and was treated with Fowler's solution (1% arsenic trioxide) for two years, between the ages of 40 and 42. The estimated total dose of arsenic was 1.6 grams. Thereafter, he felt well until he began developing episodes of hematemesis and melena approximately 3 years later. On examination, he appeared healthy but pale. A spleen tip was felt in the left upper quadrant, but there was no hepatomegaly,
