NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: arsenic, pubmed, portal, pubmed pmid, pmid, liver, portal hypertension, hypertension, cirrhosis, chronic, exposure, years, med, hepatic, year


of hematemesis and melena approximately 3 years later. On examination, he appeared healthy but pale. A spleen tip was felt in the left upper quadrant, but there was no hepatomegaly, jaundice, ascites, peripheral edema, wasting or spider angiomata. Laboratory testing showed a hematocrit of 34%, white blood count 2,700/µL and platelet count 70,000/µL, but routine liver tests were normal. Gastrointestinal radiology showed esophageal varices and splenomegaly. A splenoportogram showed an elevated splenic pulp pressure [29 mm Hg, normal 3-17], but no evidence of splenic or portal vein thrombosis. He underwent splenectomy and anastomosis of the splenic vein to the left renal vein, which normalized the elevated portal pressure. He recovered from surgery uneventfully and had no further gastrointestinal bleeding or symptoms of liver disease, but had mildly abnormal liver test results (AST and Alk P < twice ULN) and an abnormal liver-spleen scan. He also developed several skin carcinomas, but died as a result of a farm accident 27 years after initial presentation and surgery. Key Points Medication: Arsenic trioxide (1% solution) for 2 years Pattern: None: normal serum enzymes Severity: 4+, variceal hemorrhage Latency: 4 years after a 2 year course of treatment Recovery: Symptomatically complete Other medications: None mentioned Comment This case was distinctive in having excellent long term follow up summarized in a subsequent letter to the editor by the authors, 16 years after the first report. Noncirrhotic portal hypertension generally arises as a result of chronic injury, probably to portal venules and arterioles as a result of direct toxic endothelial cell injury caused by the high levels of orally absorbed arsenic in the portal system. The usual markers of liver injury are generally absent, serum enzymes being normal or near normal in the majority of patients before and at the time of initial developed. The most sensitive marker for the progressive increase in portal pressure is a decline in platelet count, even when in the normal range. Strikingly, arsenic may no longer be detectable in plasma, urine, tissue or hair when the liver injury finally becomes clinically manifest. In this case, as in most instances, withdrawal of the arsenic exposure, conservative management and portal decompression, if needed, is generally effective in resolving the clinical complications. The long term prognosis is often dependent upon the other long term complications of arsenic exposure, including skin, liver and lung carcinoma. 4 LiverTox PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Arsenic –
