NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: arsenic, pubmed, portal, pubmed pmid, pmid, liver, portal hypertension, hypertension, cirrhosis, chronic, exposure, years, med, hepatic, year


beer-drinkers in the north of England and the Midland counties in 1900. Lancet 1901; 157 (4038): 166-70. Not in PubMed. (A large number of cases of suspected alcoholic neuritis with skin eruptions and keratosis occurring in Manchester, England in 1900 were found to be due to arsenic poisoning from contamination of inexpensive beer [perhaps by sulfuric acid used in its manufacture], most patients presenting with neuropathy, but some with ascites and suspected cirrhosis). Sturroch AC, Brown J, Bowser JE, Infield S. Epidemic of peripheral neuritis traced to arsenical contamination of beer-making materials. Brit Med J 1900; 2: 1815-6. Not in PubMed. (An epidemic of painful peripheral neuropathy was traced to inexpensive beer drinking, possibly due to contamination in added sugar; 8 patients also presented with an "interstitial hepatitis" marked by abdominal pain, hepatomegaly and ascites sometimes with mild jaundice, resolving rapidly upon stopping beer intake). O'Leary PA, Snell AM, Bannick EG. Portal cirrhosis associated with chronic inorganic arsenical poisoning. JAMA 1928; 90: 1856-9. Not in PubMed. (Two cases and review of literature; 52 year old man developed abdominal distention 4 years after starting a solution of potassium arsenite for dermatitis herpetiformis, with normal serum bilirubin despite massive ascites and slow improvement with stopping; 41 year old man developed ascites and skin pigmentation a year aft er starting potassium arsenite with normal serum bilirubin [0.5 mg/dl] and slow improvement on stopping arsenic). Weir JF. Cirrhosis associated with chronic inorganic arsenical poisoning. Mayo Clin Pro 1930; 5: 173. Not in PubMed. 6 LiverTox (Two cases: 43 year old woman with pruritus, hyperpigmentation and jaundice [bilirubin 3.4 mg/dL] who developed ascites and variceal hemorrhage and had arsenic found in urine, but no mention of source; 27 year old woman with pruritus, hyperpigmentation and jaundice [bilirubin 7.8 mg/dL] suspected to be on Fowler's solution; but neither case had histologic confirmation of cirrhosis and may have represented other forms of liver disease). Franklin M, Bean WB, Hardin RC. Fowler's solution as an etiologic agent in cirrhosis. Am J Med Sci 1950; 219: 589-96. PubMed PMID: 15419170. (Three cases of arsenical dermatitis and cirrhosis in 56-57 year old Iowan farmers who developed evidence of cirrhosis [ascites, variceal hemorrhage, mild jaundice], 2-9 years after starting Fowler's solution of 1% arsenic trioxide, with little evidence of improvement after stopping and no hepatic histology). Wade HJ, Frazer ES. Toxipathic hepatitis due to Fowler's solution; a case treated with dimercaprol.
