Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (Formerly Premenstrual Syndrome)
KEYWORDS: premenstrual, symptoms, women, pms, syndrome, treatment, pmdd, premenstrual syndrome, therapy, menstrual, disorder, medical, disorders, reid, premenstrual symptoms


ABSTRACT Premenstrual syndrome, the recurrent luteal phase deterioration in quality of life due to disruptive physical and psychiatric symptomatology, is a distinct clinical condition caused by an abnormal central nervous system response to the hormonal changes of the female reproductive cycle. Better definition and research based on strict inclusion/ exclusion criteria have allowed the development of successful treatments that are tailored to the severity of the lifestyle disruption and the specific individual constellation of symptoms. Charting and simple lifestyle changes may improve coping skills for many women. However, more severely affected individuals often require medical interventions to augment central serotonin/ norepinephrine levels or to suppress the hormonal changes of the menstrual cycle. For extended coverage of this and related topics, please see our FREE on-line web- text www.endotext.org. INTRODUCTION In the past fifty years premenstrual syndrome (PMS) has emerged as a well recognized phenomenon for which effective treatments are available. Unfortunately, because of the widespread public awareness of adverse premenstrual experiences, the term PMS has found usage in popular vernacular as a noun, adjective and verb (I’m PMS ing”). Over-the-counter remedies, often promoted by those who hope to profit by marketing a “sure cure” for a common condition, have exploited the fact that many women believe they suffer from PMS. Researchers have argued that there is a need to discriminate between the usual premenstrual experience of ovulatory women (wherein premenstrual molimina forewarn of impending menstruation or where more troublesome symptoms ( PMS ) are an annoyance) from Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder ( PMDD ) wherein symptoms, particularly psychiatric, lead to major distress that is sufficient to interfere with day-to-day activities and disrupt interpersonal relationships. The challenge to the medical profession is to differentiate between these conditions and to offer appropriate and timely interventions. Those with annoying premenstrual symptoms should be counseled about simple lifestyle changes that may attenuate these whereas those with marked psychiatric components such as irritability, anger, anxiety, or depression warrant early intervention with medications. Although the literature on PMS has focused almost entirely on women with adverse premenstrual experiences, there is evidence that 5-15% of women may experience positive changes in the premenstrum (1). Rarely do such women present challenges to the clinician. This chapter will review diagnosis, etiologic theories, and therapeutic approaches to adverse premenstrual experiences. DEFINITIONS AND PREVALENCE: Molimina, Premenstrual Syndrome [PMS], and Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder [PMDD] During the reproductive years, up to 80-90% of menstruating
