Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (Formerly Premenstrual Syndrome)
KEYWORDS: premenstrual, symptoms, women, pms, syndrome, treatment, pmdd, premenstrual syndrome, therapy, menstrual, disorder, medical, disorders, reid, premenstrual symptoms


etiologic theories, and therapeutic approaches to adverse premenstrual experiences. DEFINITIONS AND PREVALENCE: Molimina, Premenstrual Syndrome [PMS], and Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder [PMDD] During the reproductive years, up to 80-90% of menstruating women will experience symptoms [breast pain, bloating, acne, constipation] that forewarn them of impending menstruation, so-called premenstrual molimina . Over 60% of women report swelling or bloating (2) although objective documentation of weight gain is lacking in most of these women (3). Cyclic breast symptoms affect 70% of women with 22% reporting moderate to extreme discomfort (4). Available data suggest that as many as 30%- 40% of these women are sufficiently bothered by molimina to seek relief. The term PMS continues to be used; however, for the reasons mentioned above it may encompass a wide range of severity and therefore is not particularly useful in defining cohorts for research or in directing the most appropriate therapeutic interventions. PMDD should be reserved for a more severe constellation of symptoms, mostly psychiatric, that lead to periodic interference with day-to-day activities and interpersonal relationships (5). Women with this degree of symptoms probably comprise 3-5% of women in their reproductive years (6, 7, 8). Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder now appears in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Health Disorders (fifth edition) of the American Psychiatric Association. After years of debate about whether this should be included as a distinct psychiatric condition (9,10), the importance of alerting psychiatrists to the critical involvement of the menstrual cycle in psychiatric disorders is now widely accepted ( Table 1 ). Table 1 Diagnostic Criteria for Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (PMDD) View in own window Timing of symptoms A )In the majority of menstrual cycles, at least 5 symptoms must be present in the final week before the onset of menses, start to improve within a few days after the onset of menses, and become minimal or absent in the week postmenses Symptoms B ) One or more of the following symptoms must be present:1) Marked affective lability (e.g., mood swings, feeling suddenly sad or tearful, or increased sensitivity to rejection)2) Marked irritability or anger or increased interpersonal conflicts 3) Markedly depressed mood, feelings of hopelessness, or self-deprecating thoughts 4) Marked anxiety, tension, and/or feelings of being keyed up or on edge C ) One (or more) of the following symptoms must additionally be present to reach a total of 5 symptoms when combined with symptoms from criterion B above
