Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (Formerly Premenstrual Syndrome)
KEYWORDS: premenstrual, symptoms, women, pms, syndrome, treatment, pmdd, premenstrual syndrome, therapy, menstrual, disorder, medical, disorders, reid, premenstrual symptoms


menstrual cyclicity and more likely to be attributed to the “hormonal swings and heartbreaks” of adolescence. Severe PMS may start shortly after puberty and such cases tend to be recognized and brought to medical attention by a parent who recognizes the symptoms from her own experience. Little is known about the inheritance of PMS; however, there is support for a genetic predisposition. Surveys have found that as many as 70% of daughters of affected mothers were themselves PMS sufferers, whereas 63% of daughters of unaffected mothers were symptom free (16). PMS sufferers often relate that symptoms become progressively worse over time, and since women have increasing contact with health care providers for non-pregnancy related concerns in their later reproductive years, this may account for the preponderance of older women seeking help for PMS. PMS disappears during suppression of the ovarian cycle (for example, during hypothalamic amenorrhea due to excessive physical, or nutritional stress, during lactational amenorrhea, during pregnancy, and after menopause – either natural or induced) (17). It is useful when evaluating a woman with suspected PMS to confirm that PMS symptoms did indeed disappear in these circumstances. Contrary to the popular belief, there is no convincing evidence that PMS begins after pregnancy or tubal ligation. This belief probably originated when PMS symptoms reappeared and seemed acutely worse after the hormonal “protection” of pre-existing pregnancy or lactation. PMS disappears after natural, medically or surgically induced menopause although the reintroduction of exogenous hormone replacement therapy may be associated with the reappearance of symptoms (18, 19). Typically, the use of sequential progestin triggers PMS symptoms in susceptible women whereas continuous combined hormone replacement therapy is less likely to be associated adverse mood changes. DIAGNOSIS In 2008 an international multidisciplinary group of experts met at a face-to-face consensus meeting in Montreal, Canada, to review current definitions and diagnostic criteria for Premenstrual Disorders (PMD) (20). This group defined “Core Premenstrual Disorders (Core PMD) and Variant Premenstrual Disorders (Variant PMD)” as shown in Table 2 below. Table 2 Classification of premenstrual disorders (PMD) View in own window PMD category Characteristics Core PMD Symptoms occur in ovulatory cycles Symptoms are not specified—they may be somatic and/or psychological The number of symptoms is not specified Symptoms are absent after menstruation and before ovulation They must recur in luteal phase They must be prospectively rated (two cycles minimum) Symptoms must cause significant impairment Variants of PMD Premenstrual exacerbation
