Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (Formerly Premenstrual Syndrome)
KEYWORDS: premenstrual, symptoms, women, pms, syndrome, treatment, pmdd, premenstrual syndrome, therapy, menstrual, disorder, medical, disorders, reid, premenstrual symptoms


absent after menstruation and before ovulation They must recur in luteal phase They must be prospectively rated (two cycles minimum) Symptoms must cause significant impairment Variants of PMD Premenstrual exacerbation Symptoms of an underlying psychological or somatic disorder significantly worsen premenstrually PMD due to non-ovulatory ovarian activity Symptoms arise from continued ovarian activity even though menstruation has been suppressed Progestogen induced PMD Symptoms result (rarely) from ovarian activity other than those of ovulation PMD with absent menstruation Symptoms result from exogenous progestogen administration a Work, school, social activities, hobbies, interpersonal relationships, distress Adapted from O'Brien PM. Backstrom T. Brown C. et al. Towards a consensus on diagnostic criteria, measurement and trial design of the premenstrual disorders: the ISPMD Montreal consensus. Arch Women's Mental Health 2011; 14(1):13-21 History Physicians should make an effort to enquire about premenstrual symptoms as part of the menstrual and reproductive history of all women of reproductive age. For the woman with few symptoms, this provides education about molimina /PMS and may forestall fears that she is “losing her mind” should symptoms emerge in the later reproductive years. For the woman with significant symptoms, this will create the opportunity for counseling and reassurance and will set the stage for establishing the diagnosis and selecting appropriate therapy. A typical woman with PMDD may relate that she is a productive employee and good mother for most of the month. However, starting sometime after ovulation (often 7-10 days prior to menstruation) she awakens in the morning with feelings of irritability, anger, anxiety, or sadness. At work, she may experience feelings of paranoia and wonder if co-workers are picking on her. Often she will report that she has difficulty concentrating on the task at hand. She may experience menopausal-like hot flashes and night sweats and often reports sleep disruption with vivid dreams. She states that premenstrually she overreacts to things that her children normally do around the house, and this makes her feel like a bad mother. She may feel down but be unable to understand why because she knows she has a good spouse, a good job, and healthy, happy, children. Minor things that her spouse says may be enough to trigger an argument, and nothing the spouse says can appease her. Although she would like to be held and comforted at such times, she reports that she cannot stand to be touched. In severe cases, she may try to
