Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (Formerly Premenstrual Syndrome)
KEYWORDS: premenstrual, symptoms, women, pms, syndrome, treatment, pmdd, premenstrual syndrome, therapy, menstrual, disorder, medical, disorders, reid, premenstrual symptoms


appease her. Although she would like to be held and comforted at such times, she reports that she cannot stand to be touched. In severe cases, she may try to isolate herself by locking the door to her room or unplugging her telephone. Occasionally depression, anger and aggression, or anxiety may be extreme, resulting in concerns for the welfare of the affected woman or her family members. Caution is needed in immediately accepting such a typical sounding history as diagnostic of PMDD. Researchers have found that many other psychiatric conditions worsen premenstrually (so-called premenstrual exacerbation); hence, an individual with an underlying psychiatric disorder may recall and relate the symptoms that were most severe in the premenstrual week while ignoring the lower level of symptoms that exist throughout the month . Only by obtaining a prospective symptom record over a one- to two-month period can the clinician have confidence in the diagnosis. Any calendar used for this purpose must obtain information on four key areas: symptoms, severity, timing in relation to the menstrual cycle, and baseline level of symptoms in the follicular phase (Table 3). Information should be sought about stresses related to the woman's occupation and family life, as these may tend to exacerbate PMDD. Past medical and psychiatric diagnoses may be relevant in that a variety of medical and psychiatric disorders may show premenstrual exacerbation. Table 3 Key elements of a prospective symptom record used for the diagnosis of PMDD. Daily listing of symptoms Ratings of symptom severity throughout the month Timing of symptoms in relation to menstruation Rating of baseline symptom severity during the follicular phase Several of the medical interventions described below will work for both PMDD and other psychiatric conditions so that a pretreatment diagnosis is important in determining the most appropriate long term management of the condition. Typically premenstrual symptoms appear after ovulation and worsen progressively leading up to menstruation. About 5-10% of PMS sufferers experience a brief burst of typical PMS symptoms coincident with the midcycle fall in estradiol that accompanies ovulation (21) (Figure 1). Premenstrual symptoms resolve at varying rates after onset of menstruation. In some women, there is almost immediate relief from psychiatric symptoms with the onset of bleeding while for others the return to normal is more gradual. The most severely affected women report that symptoms begin shortly after ovulation (two weeks before menstruation) and resolve at the end of menstruation.
