Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (Formerly Premenstrual Syndrome)
KEYWORDS: premenstrual, symptoms, women, pms, syndrome, treatment, pmdd, premenstrual syndrome, therapy, menstrual, disorder, medical, disorders, reid, premenstrual symptoms


the return to normal is more gradual. The most severely affected women report that symptoms begin shortly after ovulation (two weeks before menstruation) and resolve at the end of menstruation. Such individuals typically report having only one “good week” per month (Figure 2). If this pattern is longstanding, then it becomes harder and harder for interpersonal relationships to rebound during the good week, with the result that the condition may start to take on the appearance of a chronic mood disorder. [Whenever charting leaves the diagnosis in doubt, a three-month trial of medical ovarian suppression (see below) will usually provide a definitive answer.] Figure 1 Figure 2 One example of such a calendar record, the PRISM Calendar (Prospective Record of the Impact and Severity of Menstrual symptoms) (Figure 3) (9) allows rapid visual confirmation of the nature, timing, and severity of menstrual cycle-related symptomatology and at the same time provides information on life stressors and current therapies. Although symptoms are rated in severity on a scale from 1-3, the actual interpretation of the calendar requires no mathematical calculations. An arms length assessment of the month-long calendar usually allows a rapid distinction to be made between PMDD and other more chronic conditions (Figure 4). Other charting instruments, including the validated Daily Record of Severity of Problems (DRSP), the Premenstrual Symptoms Screening Tool (PSST), and the Calendar of Premenstrual Experiences (COPE), have been recently reviewed (22). Figure 3 Figure 4 Positive premenstrual changes associated with enhanced mood or performance are reported by up to 15% of women. Increased energy, excitement and well-being have been associated with increased activity, heightened sexuality and improved performance on certain types of tasks during the premenstrual phase. (1) Physical Findings There are no characteristic physical findings in women with PMS. When seen in the follicular phase of the cycle, PMS sufferers typically appear entirely normal. Premenstrually, a woman presenting with an acute episode of PMDD may appear anxious, tearful, or angry, depending on the nature of her symptom complex. A thorough physical exam, including gynecological examination, is recommended in the assessment of all women being evaluated for PMDD. Organic causes of premenstrual symptoms must be ruled out. Marked fatigue may result from anemia, leukemia, hypothyroidism, or diuretic-induced potassium deficiency. Headaches may be due to intracranial lesions. Women attending clinics with premenstrual complaints have been found to have brain tumours, anemia, leukemia, thyroid dysfunction, gastrointestinal disorders, pelvic tumours
