Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (Formerly Premenstrual Syndrome)
KEYWORDS: premenstrual, symptoms, women, pms, syndrome, treatment, pmdd, premenstrual syndrome, therapy, menstrual, disorder, medical, disorders, reid, premenstrual symptoms


potassium deficiency. Headaches may be due to intracranial lesions. Women attending clinics with premenstrual complaints have been found to have brain tumours, anemia, leukemia, thyroid dysfunction, gastrointestinal disorders, pelvic tumours including endometriosis, and other recurrent premenstrual phenomena such as arthritis, asthma, epilepsy, and pneumothorax (23). Blood work There is no endocrine test that helps in establishing the diagnosis in most circumstances (20). In a woman in whom the natural ovarian cycle has been disguised following hysterectomy, a serum progesterone determination at the time of symptoms may help to confirm the link between symptoms and the luteal phase of the cycle. At times a CBC and/or sensitive TSH may be indicated to rule out anemia, leukemia, or thyroid dysfunction as an explanation for symptoms. ETIOLOGY Although many theories of etiology have been proposed and disproved for this poorly understood condition, contemporary work suggests that PMDD is the result of an aberrant response of central neurotransmitters to normal changes in gonadal steroids during the menstrual cycle. Other theories, while having some biological plausibility, have not or cannot be confirmed with available diagnostic techniques. No one theory has gained universal acceptance although consensus is developing that in some susceptible women normal swings in gonadal hormones appear to mediate changes in the activity of central neurotransmitters, such as serotonin, that in turn incite profound changes in mood and behaviour. Although it is likely that many of the physical symptoms (breast tenderness, bloating constipation) are the direct effect of gonadal steroids, it is intriguing that treatment of PMS with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors will ameliorate the severity of not only psychological but also physical complaints. Several lines of evidence from clinical medicine support this interrelationship between estrogen or lack of estrogen effect (perhaps mediated by progestin-induced depletion of estrogen receptors) and central serotonergic activity (24,25). Estrogen has been shown to alleviate clinical depression in hypoestrogenic women in double-blind clinical trials (26). The addition of sequential progestin therapy to estrogen replacement triggers characteristic PMS-like mood disturbance in some susceptible postmenopausal women (19). Anti-estrogens given for ovulation induction may, at times, provoke profound mood disruption. Women with premenstrual syndrome show a surprisingly high frequency of premenstrual and menstrual hot flashes (85% of PMS sufferers vs 15% of non- PMS controls) that are typical of those experienced by menopausal women (27, 28). Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) have been shown to relieve hot flashes in breast cancer survivors
