Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (Formerly Premenstrual Syndrome)
KEYWORDS: premenstrual, symptoms, women, pms, syndrome, treatment, pmdd, premenstrual syndrome, therapy, menstrual, disorder, medical, disorders, reid, premenstrual symptoms


non- PMS controls) that are typical of those experienced by menopausal women (27, 28). Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) have been shown to relieve hot flashes in breast cancer survivors made menopausal by chemotherapy (29). In each of these circumstances a decrease in exposure to estrogen has been linked to mood disturbance, and in each case a decrease in serotonin activity (inferred from the response to SSRIs) appears to be the proximate cause [Figure 5]. Figure 5 An emerging theory as to causation of PMDD involves a progesterone metabolite, allopregnanolone (ALLO), which acts centrally as a neuroactive steroid. As with progesterone, ALLO increases in the luteal phase and declines just prior to onset of menses. ALLO has a stimulating effect on the GABA-A receptor similar to alcohol and benzodiazepines with anxiolytic and sedative properties. One possibility is that women with PMDD have developed tolerance to the sedating GABA-a enhancing effects of ALLO (30). Preclinical and early clinical work have suggested that blockade of the production of ALLO with a 5-alpha reductase inhibitor can attenuate symptoms of PMDD (31). THERAPY Many women suffering from PMDD have suffered the fate of those with other poorly defined illnesses that lack a discrete diagnostic test. All too often their concerns have been dismissed as “a normal part of being a woman” and therapy has been denied. Typically affected women will suffer for long periods before seeking treatment, and most will have tried a variety of ineffective over-the–counter “PMS remedies”. Like other areas of confusion and uncertainty, the area of PMS is an attractive one for those promoting unorthodox treatments for personal gain. Many of the theories about causation of PMDD in the past 50 years appear to have emerged as a means to market specific therapeutic products. Much effort has been expended by conscientious investigators in an effort to rigorously evaluate the promotional claims of others. Randomized controlled trials have failed to confirm the efficacy of most of these purported treatments. Lifestyle modification: 1) Communication strategies When an individual is suffering to a degree that requires more than simple counselling and reassurance, measures aimed at lifestyle modification should first be explored. She should be encouraged to discuss the problem with those individuals who are central to her life, including spouse, other family members, and even a sympathetic co-worker. Often confrontations can be avoided if an understanding spouse or friend recognizes the cause for her
