Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (Formerly Premenstrual Syndrome)
KEYWORDS: premenstrual, symptoms, women, pms, syndrome, treatment, pmdd, premenstrual syndrome, therapy, menstrual, disorder, medical, disorders, reid, premenstrual symptoms


central to her life, including spouse, other family members, and even a sympathetic co-worker. Often confrontations can be avoided if an understanding spouse or friend recognizes the cause for her upset and defers discussion of the controversial subject until another time. Strategies for stress reduction can be helpful. Communication skills and assertiveness may be improved with counselling. Group counselling in a program supervised by a clinical psychologist may be invaluable. While it is useful for PMS sufferers to learn to anticipate times in the month when vulnerability to emotional upset and confrontation may be greatest, the strategy of making important decisions "only on the good days" falls apart if premenstrual symptoms last for more than just a few days per month. For some women distressing premenstrual symptoms may last for a full three weeks, and advising them to restrict their important activities to the remaining days of the month is neither helpful nor warranted. Interventions aimed at reducing symptoms are more appropriate in this circumstance. 2) Diet While there have been many books written which describe specific "PMS diets," few of the recommendations contained therein are founded on scientific fact. Several simple dietary measures may afford relief for women with PMS. Most women with PMDD, despite feelings of bloating and tension, show no absolute increase in weight, no change in girth and no signs of peripheral edema (3, 20). Sudden shifts from low-sodium, low-carbohydrate intake to a diet high in these constituents can account for weight gain of as much as 5 kg in 24 hours in rare cases (32). Cravings for salty and sweet foods are commonly reported by women with PMDD, and these dietary alterations may account for unusual cases of premenstrual edema. For this reason reduction in the intake of salt and refined carbohydrates may help prevent edema and swelling in occasional women with this manifestation of PMS. Although a link between methylxanthine intake and premenstrual breast pain has been suggested, available data are not convincing (33, 34). Nevertheless, a reduction in the intake of caffeine may prove useful in women where tension, anxiety, and insomnia predominate. Several lines of evidence indicate that there is a tendency to increased alcohol intake premenstrually (35), and women should be cautioned that excessive use of alcohol is frequently an antecedent factor in marital discord. Anecdotal evidence suggests that small, more frequent meals may occasionally alleviate mood swings. Based on recent
