Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (Formerly Premenstrual Syndrome)
KEYWORDS: premenstrual, symptoms, women, pms, syndrome, treatment, pmdd, premenstrual syndrome, therapy, menstrual, disorder, medical, disorders, reid, premenstrual symptoms


cautioned that excessive use of alcohol is frequently an antecedent factor in marital discord. Anecdotal evidence suggests that small, more frequent meals may occasionally alleviate mood swings. Based on recent evidence that cellular uptake of glucose may be impaired premenstrually, there is, at least, some theoretical basis for this dietary recommendation (36). Carbohydrates may exhibit mood altering effects through a number of mechanisms (37), but attempts to improve premenstrual symptoms through dietary supplements have met with limited success (38). Calcium supplementation has been shown to be marginally superior to placebo in a randomized placebo controlled trial (39, 40). 3) Exercise Exercise is reported to reduce premenstrual molimina in women running in excess of 50 km/cycle (41). Lesser amounts of regular aerobic exercise may relieve symptoms, at least temporarily, in many women (42). As part of an overall program of lifestyle modification, exercise may reduce stress by providing a time away from the home and by providing a useful outlet for any anger or aggression. Some PMS sufferers report that exercise promotes relaxation and helps them sleep at night. Medical interventions The primary factor directing the selection of therapy should be the intensity and impact of premenstrual symptoms. Symptoms that are causing major disruption to quality of life rarely respond to lifestyle modification alone, and efforts to push this approach often do nothing more than delay effective therapy. Conversely, minor symptoms or symptoms that are short-lived each month seldom justify major medical interventions. Attention should always initially be directed to symptoms for which simple, established treatments exist. For example, dysmenorrhea or menorrhagia may be satisfactorily relieved with prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors or oral contraceptives. Mefenamic acid (500 mg tid) in the premenstrual and menstrual weeks has outperformed placebo for the treatment of PMS in some, but not all, clinical trials (43,44). It is likely that many of the end stage mediators of premenstrual symptomatology are prostaglandins; hence, this prostaglandin synthetase inhibitor may be working through a general inhibition of prostaglandin activity. Due to this, it is an ideal adjunct for any woman with coexisting dysmenorrhea and menorrhagia. In practice, however, its effectiveness for PMDD where psychological symptoms predominate is disappointing. Mefenamic acid is contraindicated in women with known sensitivity to aspirin or those at risk for peptic ulcers. Until relatively recently trials comparing oral contraceptive therapy to placebo have not shown a beneficial effect on mood in most circumstances (45), although extended
