Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (Formerly Premenstrual Syndrome)
KEYWORDS: premenstrual, symptoms, women, pms, syndrome, treatment, pmdd, premenstrual syndrome, therapy, menstrual, disorder, medical, disorders, reid, premenstrual symptoms


those at risk for peptic ulcers. Until relatively recently trials comparing oral contraceptive therapy to placebo have not shown a beneficial effect on mood in most circumstances (45), although extended cycle combined hormonal contraceptives (46) and oral contraceptives containing the progestin drospirenone (47) have proven superior to placebo in randomized clinical trials. . When contraception is required in a woman with PMDD, especially in teens and if there is coexisting dysmenorrhea or menorrhagia, extended cycle hormonal contraceptives or those containing drospirenone can be tried initially. Published data in regard to the efficacy of pyridoxine (Vitamin B6) have been contradictory (48); however, this medication in proper dosages (100 mg OD) is, at worst, a safe placebo that becomes one part of an overall management plan for the women with distressing molimina that should include lifestyle modification and changes in diet. Patients should be cautioned that these medications do not work for all women and that increasing the dose of pyridoxine in an effort to achieve complete relief of symptoms may lead to peripheral neuropathy. Pyridoxine should be discontinued if there is evidence of tingling or numbness of the extremities. Neither progestin therapy (49, 50) nor oil of evening primrose (51) have been shown to be efficacious for PMDD in controlled clinical trials. Premenstrual mastalgia which affects up to 70% of women in reproductive age may occur in isolation from other distressing premenstrual symptoms and, as such, should be considered a moliminal symptom. Low dose danazol (100 mg OD) for several cycles followed by maintenance doses in the luteal phase only (50 mg OD) (52) can bring about dramatic relief of mastalgia in most women; however, higher dosages (400 mg OD) may be required to relieve other symptoms of PMDD (53). Mastalgia may also respond to tamoxifen (10 mg daily) (54), but has not been shown to respond to diuretics, medroxyprogesterone acetate, or pyridoxine. The routine use of diuretics in the treatment of PMS should be abandoned. Most women show only random weight fluctuations during the menstrual cycle despite the common sensation of bloating. In the absence of demonstrable weight gain it is likely that this symptom may result from constipation and/or bowel wall edema rather than from an overall fluid accumulation. In rare cases, ingestion of salt and refined carbohydrates has been shown to result in true fluid retention. In cases where a consistent increase in weight can be documented or
