Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (Formerly Premenstrual Syndrome)
KEYWORDS: premenstrual, symptoms, women, pms, syndrome, treatment, pmdd, premenstrual syndrome, therapy, menstrual, disorder, medical, disorders, reid, premenstrual symptoms


In rare cases, ingestion of salt and refined carbohydrates has been shown to result in true fluid retention. In cases where a consistent increase in weight can be documented or where edema is demonstrable, limitation of intake of salt and refined carbohydrates should be tried first. If such dietary restrictions fail to relieve premenstrual fluid accumulation, use of a potassium-sparing diuretic, such as spironolactone, may be considered (55). Continued use of a diuretic activates the renin–angiotensin–aldosterone system resulting in rapid rebound fluid accumulation as soon as the diuretic is discontinued. Weight takes approximately two to three weeks to return to normal after discontinuation of a diuretic in some people. Unfortunately this leaves the affected women with the impression that she must use a diuretic to maintain normal fluid balance. Some women report overriding symptoms of anxiety and tension or insomnia in the premenstrual week (56). New short-acting anxiolytics or hypnotics such as alprazolam (.25 mg po bid) or triazolam (.25 mg po qhs) may be prescribed sparingly for such individuals (57, 58). Buspirone has also proven useful for anxiety and may be particularly helpful in circumstances where SSRIs evoke sexual dysfunction (59). Estrogen withdrawal has been implicated in menstrually-related migraines, and recent evidence indicates that estrogen supplementation commencing in the late luteal phase and continued through menstruation may alleviate headaches in some women (60, 61, 62). As discussed below, if headaches are severe and are unrelieved by short term estrogen supplementation, they can often be nicely controlled by intramuscular or oral sumatriptan therapy (63) or by medical ovarian suppression with GnRH agonists (64, 65) and continuous combined hormone replacement therapy. Antidepressant Therapy A range of newer antidepressant medications that augment central serotonin activity have been shown to alleviate severe premenstrual syndrome (66, 67). Since these agents will also relieve endogenous depression, a pretreatment diagnosis, achieved by prospective charting, is very important. Practically speaking, many women who attend a gynecology clinic to seek relief from premenstrual symptoms express reservations about taking an antidepressant, particularly if a short-term endpoint (3-6 months away) is not likely. Long term therapy may be required to control symptoms of PMDD from the late 30s until menopause. For patients in whom psychiatric symptoms predominate antidepressant therapy may provide excellent results (Figure 6). Selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors, such as fluoxetine, sertraline, paroxetine, fluvoxamine, and venlafaxine (a serotonin and norepinephrine re-uptake inhibitor) have all been successfully employed. Figure 6
