Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (Formerly Premenstrual Syndrome)
KEYWORDS: premenstrual, symptoms, women, pms, syndrome, treatment, pmdd, premenstrual syndrome, therapy, menstrual, disorder, medical, disorders, reid, premenstrual symptoms


provide excellent results (Figure 6). Selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors, such as fluoxetine, sertraline, paroxetine, fluvoxamine, and venlafaxine (a serotonin and norepinephrine re-uptake inhibitor) have all been successfully employed. Figure 6 Symptom profiles may help in selecting the most appropriate agent (i.e., fluoxetine in patients where fatigue and depression predominate; sertraline if insomnia, irritability, and anxiety are paramount). SSRIs have been associated with loss of libido and anorgasmia, which are particularly distressing to this patient population, and appropriate pretreatment counseling is essential. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCA) have not generally been effective with the exception of clomipramine, a TCA with strong serotoninergic activity. Intolerance to the side effects of TCAs is common. Most women with PMDD would prefer to medicate themselves only during the symptomatic phase of the menstrual cycle. Recent studies have demonstrated that luteal phase therapy and even symptom-onset therapy may be effective for many women with PMS (68, 69). Practically speaking, it makes sense to start a trial of SSRI therapy with continuous use. After a woman has determined the optimal response that can be achieved with continuous therapy, it is reasonable for her to try luteal phase-only or symptom-onset therapy (70) to determine if the benefit is maintained. Medical Ovarian Suppression Suppression of cyclic ovarian function may afford dramatic relief for the woman with severe and long lasting symptoms (71, 72) (Figure 7). In each case, therapy should be directed toward suppression of cyclic ovarian activity while ensuring a constant low level of estrogen sufficient to prevent menopausal symptomatology and side effects. Figure 7 Danazol (200 mg bid) will effect ovarian suppression in approximately 80% of women with prompt relief from symptoms (53). It also reduces breast pain and menstrual flow. However, danazol is an impeded androgen and at a dosage of 200 mg bid may have side effects that limit its use, such as hot flashes, muscle cramps, hirsutism or a worsening of the lipid profile. Because of this, the use of danazol has been largely supplanted by ovarian suppression with gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists (GnRH Ag). Gonadotropin releasing hormone agonists effect rapid medical ovarian suppression, thereby inducing a pseudo-menopause and affording relief from PMS (71, 72). This approach may effectively alleviate other less common menstrual cycle-related conditions such as asthma, epilepsy, migraine and irritable bowel syndrome (65). This approach is unsatisfactory in the long term, not only because of the troublesome menopausal symptoms it evokes, but also because
