Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (Formerly Premenstrual Syndrome)
KEYWORDS: premenstrual, symptoms, women, pms, syndrome, treatment, pmdd, premenstrual syndrome, therapy, menstrual, disorder, medical, disorders, reid, premenstrual symptoms


as asthma, epilepsy, migraine and irritable bowel syndrome (65). This approach is unsatisfactory in the long term, not only because of the troublesome menopausal symptoms it evokes, but also because if creates an increased risk for osteoporosis and ischemic heart disease. When combined with continuous combined hormone replacement therapy, GnRH Ag afford excellent relief from premenstrual symptomatology without the attendant risks and symptoms resulting from premature menopause. The major drawback to this therapeutic approach is the expense of medication and the need for the patient to take multiple medications on a long-term basis. For women approaching menopause, this therapy (a GnRH Ag and continuous combined hormone replacement therapy) can be maintained until menopause with satisfactory symptom control. Some women, despite complete relief of symptoms, cannot afford or choose not to take this combination of medications for prolonged intervals (as long as 10-15 years from diagnosis until menopause in some cases). Though less well studied depo-medroxyprogesterone acetate (depo-MPA) (150 -300 mg IM q3m) may provide a cheaper way to attenuate symptoms of PMDD in women who require contraception. The major drawback to this approach is that a substantial percentage of women will get irregular bleeding and gradual weight gain. Patients should always be counseled about the potential for protracted anovulation following use of this medication. Surgical Therapy Medical approaches to PMS should be considered and explored prior to any consideration of surgery for PMDD. For the woman in whom there is unequivocal documentation that premenstrual symptoms are severe and disruptive to lifestyle and relationships, and in whom conservative medical therapies have failed (either due to lack of response, intolerable side effects, or prohibitive cost), the effect of medical ovarian suppression should be tested. Where the family is complete and permanent contraception is desired, the pros and cons of oophorectomy for lasting relief from premenstrual symptomatology should be discussed with the patient (if she has failed other medical treatments and responded to a clinical trial of medical ovarian suppression). Clinical trials have clearly shown that oophorectomy with subsequent hormone replacement therapy is effective in the treatment of PMDD (73, 74, 75). Concomitant hysterectomy will avoid the need for progestin as part of the hormone replacement regimen and may avoid irregular bleeding and progestin-induced recrudescence of symptoms. An international group of specialists with clinical experience in management of PMDD has recently published a detailed consensus document which reviews the efficacy of existing therapies
