TheAmericanJournalofPathology,Vol.189,No.9,September2019
KEYWORDS: acid, metabolites, cid, metabolism, figure, sepsis, muscle, urea, significantly, liver, analysis, metabolic, skeletal, phenylalanine, altered


to the presence of evidence of andsamplebloodfrommultipleorgans,whileaSwanGanz inflammation,multipleorganfailure,ororganfailurewithhy- catheter was placed in the right jugular vein to monitor potension. To date, studies of metabolic alterations have pri- pulmonary pressures, as previously described.10,11 Briefly, marilyfocusedoneithercirculatingmetabolicchangesinserum animalswereacclimatizedfor7to10daysandunderwenta cellular metabolic dysregulation is implicatedin disease,8 the assigned veterinarian. Anesthesia was induced with i.m. contributionofmetabolicchangesinanorgan-specificmanner injection of a mixture of tiletamine hydrochloride and is clinically relevant to the variable effects on organ failure zolazepam hydrochloride (Telazol; Zoetis, Parsippany, NJ). linked to survival.9 In the present study, an organ systems The animal was then intubated and put under isoflurane approachwastakentoidentifythemetabolicchangesoccurring general anesthesia maintained at 2% with oxygen. Flunixin inthejejunum,ileum,skeletalmuscle,liver,andlungusinga meglumine (Flunixamine; Zoetis; 2 mg/kg BW) was nontargeted metabolomics approach to identify metabolic administered as analgesic, and lincomycin-spectinomycin pathways altered in a porcine model of sepsis inducedby18 (Linco-Spectin; Zoetis; lincomycin, 5 mg/kg BW, and hoursofcontinuousi.v.infusionofPseudomonasaeruginosa. spectinomycin, 10 mg/kg BW) was administered as a sur- gical antibiotic prophylaxis via ear vein cannula. During surgery,500to1000mLRinger’slactatesolutionwasgiven Materials and Methods to maintain blood pressure and fluid balance. ECG, CO , Compliance with Ethical Standards and oxygen saturation were monitored continuously. A midline laparotomy was performed to place the All applicable international, national, and/or institutional abdominal aorta catheter for blood sampling over time and guidelines for the care and use of animals were followed. to monitor mean arterial pressure. An inferior caval vein catheter was then placed to allow post-surgical administra- Animals tion of medications. A second arterial catheter, just before the bifurcation, and a splenic vein catheter were placed, Twenty-seven female Yorkshire crossbred pigs allowing infusion of para-aminohippuric acid for plasma (Susdomesticus)frommultiplelitters(MetzFarms,Russell- flow measurements. A Swan Ganz catheter (5 Fr; number ville, AR), weighing 20 to 25 kg, were used in the present 132F5;EdwardsLifeSciences,Irvine,CA)wasinsertedvia study. A dedicated veterinarian of the Arkansas Children’s the right jugular vein to monitor mean pulmonary arterial Association for Laboratory Animal Care certified) assessed was determined after the pressure readings when the cath- thegeneralhealthstatusofallanimals.Pigswereindividually eter was pushed through the right atrium and ventricle. In housedinsteelpens(2(cid:2)3m)locatedinacontrolledhousing addition,anextracavalvein,aportalvein,andahepaticvein biosafetylevel2facility,withinalargeanimalcubiclewitha catheter were placed for multiorgan blood sampling. The plastic-coatedmesh-stylegridfloor.Thefacilitiesweretem- duration of the surgery was approximately 5 hours. Post- peraturecontrolled(22(cid:3)Cto24(cid:3)C)witha12-hourlight-dark operative care was standardized, as described in detail pre- cycle and standardized food intake (1 kg/day) (Teklad; viously,10,11 and monitored by the assigned veterinarian. Envigo,Alice,TX)andwateravailableadlibitum.Penswere After surgery, ECG, pulse oximetry, and ventilation were enriched with toys to stimulate naturalpig rooting behavior continueduntiltheanimalrespondedwithmultipleswallow andtopreventstereotypicbehavior.Aheatingpadwasadded reflexes, performed eye blinking, demonstrated evidence of to
