TheAmericanJournalofPathology,Vol.189,No.9,September2019
KEYWORDS: acid, metabolites, cid, metabolism, figure, sepsis, muscle, urea, significantly, liver, analysis, metabolic, skeletal, phenylalanine, altered


the assigned veterinarian. Envigo,Alice,TX)andwateravailableadlibitum.Penswere After surgery, ECG, pulse oximetry, and ventilation were enriched with toys to stimulate naturalpig rooting behavior continueduntiltheanimalrespondedwithmultipleswallow andtopreventstereotypicbehavior.Aheatingpadwasadded reflexes, performed eye blinking, demonstrated evidence of to the pen to ensure natural body temperature control after fighting the ventilator, and had attempts to rise. A second before surgery(7to10daysafterarrival),andaftersurgery muscularly.Breathingandheartratewereobserveduntilthe (twicedailyonthefirst3/4daysaftersurgeryandthenevery2/ animalwasabletositsternally.Duringthefirst4daysafter 3 days until the sepsis study). The present animal study, surgery,animalswereclinicallyexaminedtwicedaily(body includingitsjustificationfornumber,breed,anduseofsingle temperature, appearance, and behavior), and buprenorphine sex,wasapprovedbytheanimalexperimentethicscommittee (0.03 mg/kg BW) and lincomycin-spectinomycin were (InstitutionalAnimalCareandUseCommittee)ofUniversity administered via the implanted central vein catheter. Ani- ofArkansasMedicalSciences(LittleRock,AR). malswerefedhalftheirnormalfoodrationduringthefirst2 daysaftersurgery.Catheterswerecheckeddailyforthefirst Presurgical Catheter Placement, Anesthesia Induction, 3days,andtheirpatencywasobservedbyantimicrobialand and Surgical Procedure anticoagulant catheter filling, using 0.5 mL of 20 mg/mL gentamicinand225U/mLalfa-chymotrypsin,whichwasset Catheters were first implanted in the abdominal aorta, in the catheter, not injected, as previously described.10 inferiorvenacava,splenicvein,anextracavalvein,aportal Subsequently, animals were examined, and catheters were 1798 ajp.amjpathol.org - The American Journal of Pathology Tissue-Specific Metabolome of Sepsis checked for patency every 2 to 3 days. Animals were 200-mg fragments of skeletal muscle (medial gastrocne- acclimated to a small movable cage (0.9 (cid:2) 0.5 (cid:2) 0.3 m) to mius, right hind leg, and middle section), jejunum, ileum, ensure that the P. aeruginosa experiments could be per- liver, and lung were collected from 9 P. aeruginosa and 13 formed in the cage in conscious animals in free standing, control animals, placed on dry ice, and stored at (cid:4)80(cid:3)C. sitting, or lying positions both before and after surgery and duringtherecoveryperiod(7to10days).Ofthe27animals, Nontargeted Metabolomics Analysis by GC/MS 5 were lost because of intestinal complications (ileus, asci- Instrumentation tes, or peritonitis) during the recovery phase from the catheter implantation surgery. However, no animals were Samples were then processed and analyzed by gas chro- lost during the surgery and the P. aeruginosa experiment. matography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS), as previously At the time of the sepsis experiment, animals had been described.13,14 A 20- to 50-mg sample was cut from the acclimated at least 10 times in this movable cage. flash-frozen tissue and immediately weighed, followed by quickly mincing the tissue and addition of extraction solu- Septic Responseto P. aeruginosa PorcineStudy Design tion (50% acetonitrile, 50% water, and 0.3% formic acid, made fresh daily)prepared ataconcentrationof25mg/475 Animals were randomized to either experimental or control mL solution. The sample was then immediately homoge- group 7 to 10 days after surgery. Basal blood pressures, nized on ice for 10 to 25 seconds, placed on dry ice, and tory data (preseptic period; time Z (cid:4)2
