World Journal of
KEYWORDS: esophageal, band, banding, obstruction, variceal, varices, esophageal obstruction, case, variceal banding, ligation, band ligation, patient, patients, figure, dysphagia


World Journal of W J G E Gastrointestinal Endoscopy Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastrointest Endosc 2019 April 16; 11(4): 292-297 DOI: ISSN 1948-5190 (online) CASE REPORT Rare cause of dysphagia after esophageal variceal banding: A case report Lindsay A Sobotka, Mitchell L Ramsey, Michael Wellner, Sean G Kelly Mitchell Ramsey Center, Columbus, OH 43210, United States (0000-0002-6430-1924); Michael Avenue, Columbus, OH 43210, United States. Author contributions: Sobotka LA, Telephone: +1-614-2938000 Ramsey ML, Wellner M and Kelly SG contributed equally to this work; all authors participated in collection of information, drafting Abstract of the case series, critical review and approve of the final draft. BACKGROUND Esophageal varices are a result of progressive liver disease and portal Informed consent statement: hypertension. Treatment can be performed with band ligation versus non- Written informed consent was selective beta blockers depending on the size of varices, ability to tolerate obtained from the patient for publication of this report and any medications and history of variceal bleeding. Band ligation is an effective accompanying images. intervention with rare but serious complications including bleeding, ulcers and rarely obstruction. Few cases of esophageal obstruction and necrosis caused by Conflict-of-interest statement: The banding have been reported, each with varied management from conservative authors that they have no conflict treatment to band removal. of interest. CARE Checklist (2016) statement: CASE SUMMARY The authors have read the CARE An 89 years old woman with a past medical history of nonalcoholic checklist and the manuscript was steatohepatitis cirrhosis presented to the hospital with an inability to swallow one prepared and revised according to day after screening esophagogastroduodenoscopy where band ligation of the CARE checklist. esophageal varices was performed for primary prophylaxis. The patient was not Open-Access: This article is an able to tolerate her oral secretions. Initial blood work revealed a Model of End open-access article which was Organ Liver Disease score of 7. She was treated with sublingual nitroglycerin for selected by an in-house editor and esophageal spasm, a known complication after esophageal banding. When she fully peer-reviewed by external failed to improve, esophagogastroduodenoscopy was performed and revealed reviewers. It is distributed in the mucosa surrounding the banded varix was necrosed and blocking the lumen accordance with the Creative of the esophagus. The band was purposefully dislodged, revealing distal Commons Attribution Non Commercial (CC BY-NC 4.0) ulceration and stricturing. Within 72 h after band removal, she was tolerating an license, which
