World Journal of
KEYWORDS: esophageal, band, banding, obstruction, variceal, varices, esophageal obstruction, case, variceal banding, ligation, band ligation, patient, patients, figure, dysphagia


esophagus. The band was purposefully dislodged, revealing distal Commons Attribution Non Commercial (CC BY-NC 4.0) ulceration and stricturing. Within 72 h after band removal, she was tolerating an license, which permits others to oral diet. Endoscopy performed 2 wk later revealed an intrinsic stenosis, distribute, remix, adapt, build measuring 8 mm in diameter by 1 cm in length, which was dilated. upon this work non-commercially, and license their derivative works CONCLUSION on different terms, provided the Esophageal obstruction is a complication of variceal banding that should be original work is properly cited and considered in patients with inability to tolerate oral diet after banding. the use is non-commercial. See: WJGE 292 April 16, 2019 Volume 11 Issue 4 Sobotka LA et al. Esophageal obstruction due to variceal banding ses/by-nc/4.0/ Key words: Case report; Esophageal varices; Band ligation; Esophageal necrosis; Esophageal obstruction Manuscript source: Unsolicited manuscript ©The Author(s) 2019. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved. Peer-review started: January 31, Core tip: Complete esophageal obstruction and necrosis is a rare complication of esophageal variceal banding. Patients typically present with dysphagia and inability to First decision: March 11, 2019 tolerate secretions shortly after banding. Diagnosis is made with a barium esophagram or Revised: March 14, 2019 upper endoscopy. Treatment consists of supportive care and total parental nutrition until recovery or removing the band endoscopically. Most patients recover but may require Article in press: March 26, 2019 esophageal dilation afterwards. P-Reviewer: Lan C, Yuan JY S-Editor: Ji FF Citation: Sobotka LA, Ramsey ML, Wellner M, Kelly SG. Rare cause of dysphagia after L-Editor: A esophageal variceal banding: A case report. World J Gastrointest Endosc 2019; 11(4): 292- E-Editor: Wu YXJ 297 URL: DOI: INTRODUCTION Esophageal and gastric varices are a result of progressive liver disease and portal hypertension. Screening and management of varices is a crucial part of the management in patient with end stage liver disease. Treatment can be performed with band ligation versus non-selective beta blockers depending on the size of varices, ability to tolerate medications and history of esophageal variceal bleeding. Variceal band ligation is a safe and effective intervention for varices with rare but serious complications including bleeding, ulcers and rarely obstruction[1-4]. We present a case of complete esophageal obstruction and necrosis as a result of esophageal variceal banding. The case report explores the differential diagnosis of dysphagia after band ligation, diagnosis of obstruction and reviews potential
