World Journal of
KEYWORDS: esophageal, band, banding, obstruction, variceal, varices, esophageal obstruction, case, variceal banding, ligation, band ligation, patient, patients, figure, dysphagia


complete esophageal obstruction and necrosis as a result of esophageal variceal banding. The case report explores the differential diagnosis of dysphagia after band ligation, diagnosis of obstruction and reviews potential treatment options. CASE PRESENTATION Chief complaint An 89 years old woman presented with an inability to swallow one day after band ligation of esophageal varices. History of present illness The patient experienced almost immediate regurgitation after any oral intake on the way home from endoscopy. Her initial esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) was performed for surveillance of varices. She was found to have large, non-bleeding esophageal varices and type 1 gastroesophageal varices. Two bands were placed on the esophageal varices in the lower esophagus in an upward spiral motion for primary prophylaxis and varices were completely eradicated. She reported feeling well in recovery after the procedure and was discharged. History of past illness She has a past medical history of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis cirrhosis. Physical examination patient appeared uncomfortable and was not able to tolerate her oral secretions. Her physical exam was otherwise unremarkable with pertinent negatives including ascites, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatosplenomegaly, lower extremity edema or crepitus. Laboratory abnormalities Initial blood work revealed a Model of End Organ Liver Disease score of 7. The rest of her blood work was unremarkable including a complete blood count, chemistry and liver function tests. She underwent a chest X-ray, which did not reveal any acute WJGE 293 April 16, 2019 Volume 11 Issue 4 Sobotka LA et al. Esophageal obstruction due to variceal banding abnormalities. Further diagnostic workup and interventions She was treated symptomatically with sublingual nitroglycerin for esophageal spasm, which is a known complication after esophageal banding and was the presumed issue here. She failed to improve with intravenous fluids and conservative management for several days and, therefore, underwent an EGD for further evaluation. Images from endoscopy five days after initial band placement are shown in Figure 1. Endoscopy revealed the mucosa surrounding the banded varix was now necrosed and blocking the lumen of the esophagus. FINAL DIAGNOSIS Complete esophageal obstruction and necrosis due to esophageal variceal band ligation. TREATMENT The band was purposefully dislodged, revealing distal ulceration and stricturing which could not be transversed with an endoscope. She underwent a computed topography of the chest which did not reveal perforation. Surgery evaluated the patient and did not feel that an operation was warranted. Subsequent gastrograffin swallow study revealed passage of contrast into the stomach without
