World Journal of
KEYWORDS: esophageal, band, banding, obstruction, variceal, varices, esophageal obstruction, case, variceal banding, ligation, band ligation, patient, patients, figure, dysphagia


which did not reveal perforation. Surgery evaluated the patient and did not feel that an operation was warranted. Subsequent gastrograffin swallow study revealed passage of contrast into the stomach without extravasation (Figure 2). Within 72 h after the procedure, she was tolerating an oral diet and was discharged home. OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP She returned as an outpatient for an EGD two weeks after discharge. Endoscopy revealed intrinsic moderate stenosis 34 cm from the incisors. The stenosis was 8 mm in diameter by 1 cm in length and dilated with a through-the-scope balloon (Figures 3 and 4). DISCUSSION Band ligation is one of the most effective interventions for the prevention and treatment of esophageal variceal hemorrhage. When esophageal varices are banded, local venous occlusion and thrombosis leads to tissue necrosis at the site of the band. The band subsequently sloughs off within about 72 h of placement and a small ulceration is left at the place of the band. Varices subsequently become smaller in diameter, reducing risk of life-threatening bleeding. Patient typically require multiple treatments in order to completely eradicate varices. Variceal banding is an effective and well tolerated procedure; however, side effects including dysphagia, ulcer bleeding, pneumonia, and strictures have been reported. The prevalence of these side effects, including dysphagia, have been reported in the literature; however rates have varied significantly from 0 to 75% of affected patients. Dysphagia after variceal banding is more commonly due to dysmotility and esophageal spasms after banding. These symptoms tend to be transient and typically last about 24 to 48 h and most patients can successfully advance their diet. Rarely dysphagia is a result of complete esophageal obstruction and necrosis. To our knowledge, there has only been 8 cases reports in the literature highlighting the diagnosis and management of this complication[10-18]. While the exact cause of obstruction and factors that predispose patients to developing this are unknown, some authors postulate that obstruction after banding may occur if a band is placed too close to mucosa that is already edematous or necrotic, which can be seen after previous banding. Given the rarity of this complication, management has been based upon previous case reports in the literature and therefore has varied. Many patients were treated conservatively with no oral intake and received total parental nutrition until symptoms resolved. According to previous case reports, this has been a successful intervention and most patients began to show signs
