World Journal of
KEYWORDS: esophageal, band, banding, obstruction, variceal, varices, esophageal obstruction, case, variceal banding, ligation, band ligation, patient, patients, figure, dysphagia


with no oral intake and received total parental nutrition until symptoms resolved. According to previous case reports, this has been a successful intervention and most patients began to show signs of improvement within a week[2,10-12]. Other case reports have highlighted removing the band endoscopically with mixed outcomes. Endoscopists have attempted band removal with biopsy WJGE 294 April 16, 2019 Volume 11 Issue 4 Sobotka LA et al. Esophageal obstruction due to variceal banding Figure 1 Figure 1 Necrosed esophageal varix causing complete esophageal obstruction. forceps and rat tooth forceps. While many patients tolerated removal, were able to intramural esophageal dissection and bleeding. We opted to remove the band with biopsy forceps and this intervention was successful with no complications. Patient was able to safely advance her diet within 24 h. Our patient improved quickly once the band was removed from the obstructing varix, suggesting this could be an ideal intervention if the endoscopist is able to safely perform this maneuver. CONCLUSION In conclusion, complete esophageal obstruction and localized necrosis is an extremely rare complication of variceal banding. This should be considered in any patient that presents with an inability to tolerate an oral diet after band ligation of esophageal varices. Diagnosis of this complication is typically with a barium esophagram or repeat upper endoscopy. Treatment may consist of supportive care and nothing by mouth until symptoms resolve or with removing the band endoscopically. WJGE 295 April 16, 2019 Volume 11 Issue 4 Sobotka LA et al. Esophageal obstruction due to variceal banding Figure 2 Figure 2 Barium esophagram after band removal. Figure 3 Figure 3 Esophageal stenosis after band removal. Figure 4 Figure 4 Balloon dilation of esophageal stenosis.
