Gut 1996;38: 337-347 337
KEYWORDS: cells, epithelial, toxin, cell, epithelial cells, studies, colonic, culture, hours, apoptosis, detached, caco-, difficile, lines, organ


Gut 1996;38: 337-347 337 Effect of Clostridium difficile toxin A on human intestinal epithelial cells: induction of interleukin 8 production and apoptosis after cell detachment YRMahida, S Makh, S Hyde, T Gray, S P Borriello Abstract pathogen, which is the most common Clostridium difficile is the aetiological identifiable bacterial cause of nosocomial agent ofpseudomembranous colitis, and diarrhoea. animal studies suggest the essential role Intestinal disease follows infection with of secreted toxin A in inducing disease. toxigenic C difficile, which produces two This study examined the biological toxins, A and B.4 Both toxins are large molec- responses to toxin Aby human intestinal ularweightproteins ofapproximately 300 kDa epithelial cells. Confluent monolayers of and 270 kDa respectively (based on the Caco2, HT29, and T84 cells and primary deduced amino acid sequence). They seem to epithelial cells in organ cultures of exist as dimers as the molecular weights esti- human colonic biopsy specimens and mated from column chromatographic tech- after detachment with EDTA were niques are about 600 kDa for toxin A and studied. Interleukin 8 was assayed using about 500 kDafortoxin B. Toxin agglutinates enzyme linked immunosorbent assay rabbit erythrocytes at 4°C,5 and binds bovine (ELISA). Purified C difficile toxin A thyroglobulin6 after interaction with the induced cell roundingand detachment of trisaccharide Galaal-3Galpl-4GlcNAc. This monolayers of the epithelial cell lines. property is exploited for purification of the Cells in detached monolayers initially toxin by affinity chromatography.6 Also, cells remained viable while adherent to each expressing large amounts of the trisaccharide other. Subsequently, an increasing receptoraremore susceptible tothe cytopathic number of apoptotic cells appeared in activity oftoxinA.7 suspension. Exposure to toxin A for 24 Although toxin B has potent cytotoxic hours induced interleukin 8 production activity on cell lines in vitro, experiments in in T84 and HT29 cells. Toxin A also animals suggestthatitistoxinAthatis essen- induced epithelial cell rounding, detach- tial for the induction of intestinal disease. ment, and apoptosis in organ cultures of Thus injection of purified toxin A, but not humancolonicbiopsyspecimens. During toxin B, into rabbit ileal and colonic loops culture (in medium only), EDTA has been shown to induce pronounced detached colonic epithelial cells pro- intestinal inflammation.8 9 It has also been duced interleukin 8 and cell death shown that intragastric administration of occurred by apoptosis. Colonic disease purified toxin A to hamsters induces intesti- by Cdifficile may be initiated by toxin A nal inflammation.'0 In the second of these mediated induction
