Gut 1996;38: 337-347 337
KEYWORDS: cells, epithelial, toxin, cell, epithelial cells, studies, colonic, culture, hours, apoptosis, detached, caco-, difficile, lines, organ


of occurred by apoptosis. Colonic disease purified toxin A to hamsters induces intesti- by Cdifficile may be initiated by toxin A nal inflammation.'0 In the second of these mediated induction of epithelial cell studies, purified toxin A by itself did not Divisionsof Gastroenterology interleukin 8 production and apoptosis induce intestinal disease unless there was YRMahida after cell detachment from the basement prior derangement of the epithelial barrier. SMakh membrane. Studies on isolated (toxin To initiate disease in humans, the first host Pathology untreated) colonic epithelial cells suggest cells that C difficile toxin A would interact TGray thatinterleukin8productionandapopto- with are the colonic epithelial cells. These sis occur as a consequence ofcell injury toxin-epithelial cell interactions probably andMicrobiology anddetachment. represent the early, initiating events that SHyde SPBorriello (Gut 1996;38: 337-347) subsequently lead to the severe colonic .inflammation seen in pseudomembranous UniversityHospital, Keywords: Clostridiumdifficile,toxinA,epithelialcells, colitis. We have therefore examined the bio- Q Ce u n e t e r n e ' , s N M o e t d t i i c n a g l ham apoptosis,interleukin 8. logical responses to C difficile toxin A by the human colonic epithelial cell lines Caco-2, InstituteofInfection T84, and HT-29. In addition to morphologi- andImmunity, UniversityHospital, Clostridium difficile is the aetiological agent cal changes, the induction of interleukin 8 Queen'sMedical of antibiotic associated pseudomembranous (IL8; a potent chemoattractant for poly- Centre,Nottingham colitis,l 2 a disease characterised by infiltra- morphonuclear cells) production in response YRMahida SMakh tion of the colonic mucosa by inflammatory to toxin A was also investigated. Confluent SHyde cells, of which polymorphonuclear cells are Caco-2 and T84 cells have many phenotype SPBorriello the most prominent.3 A pseudomembrane and functional characteristics of mature Correspondenceto: coveringthemucosaisacharacteristic feature enterocytes and colonic crypt cells respec- DrYRMahida,Divisionof of the disease and comprises polymorpho- tively." 12 To relate the responses by the cell Centre,Nottingham andfibrin. Manycasesofantibiotic associated examined responses by primary epithelial NG72UH. diarrhoea, in the absence of detectable cells in organ cultures of human colonic Acceptedforpublication 23October1995 pseudomembranes, are also caused by this biopsy specimens. 338 Mahida, Makh,Hyde, Gray,Boniello Methods adding the dye to a final concentration of 0.01%. After culture for one hour, the pro- Purification oftoxinA portion ofcells that had taken up the dye was ToxinA(freeofeventracecontaminationwith determined by counting at least 200 cells per toxinB)waspurifiedasdescribedindetailpre- well. Nuclear morphology of epithelial cells viously.13 Briefly, toxigenic C difficile (strain after staining with acridine orange (final con-
