Gut 1996;38: 337-347 337
KEYWORDS: cells, epithelial, toxin, cell, epithelial cells, studies, colonic, culture, hours, apoptosis, detached, caco-, difficile, lines, organ


weeks after confluency. By thistimethe cellshaddeveloped domeregions and expressed microvilli as well as sucrase Organ cultureofcolonicbiopsyspecimens isomaltase activity (determined using assay Colonic biopsy specimens were obtained from cells (passage 68-74) were grown in 50% indications (surveillance for polyps, investiga- DMEM, 50% Ham's F12 medium (Gibco tion for occult bleeding, and changed bowel 10%FCS, 2mmo/ll glutamine, andantibiotics logical examination (which were all confirmed (as for Caco-2 cells). HT29 cells (parental to be normal) additional samples were taken type;passage 132-4) were culturedinDMEM from the sigmoid colon for organ culture supplemented with 10%FCS, 2 mmoUl gluta- studies. These studies were approved by the mine, and antibiotics (as for the above cell ethics committee of Queen's Medical Centre lines). T84 and HT-29 cells were grown to and the additional specimens were only confluency forthe studies withtoxinA. obtained afterinformed consent. For morphological studies byphase contrast Organ cultures were performed as previ- microscopy, the cellswere grown to confluency ously described.16 The samples were placed in 24 well tissue culture plates (Nunc, Gibco immediately in RPMI (Gibco BRL, different final concentrations. Morphological They were subsequently placed, within five changes were assessed over the next 96 hours minutes ofremoval, on a stainless steel mesh using an Olympus CK2 inverted microscope. overaculture dish (Falcon, BectonDickinson, Studies oftrypan blue (Sigma Chemical, St Lincoln, NJ) containing pre-warmed medium Louis, MO) uptake were performed after (10% FCS/RPMI) and C difficile toxin A at EffectofClostridiumdifficiletoxinAonhumanintestinalepithelialcells 339 final concentrations of 1 pg/ml to 1000 ng/ml colonic epithelial cells were cultured in 10% (or the same volume of control buffer). The FCS/RPMI ataconcentration of5X106/ml for culturedisheswereplaced in a sealed chamber two hours to 24 hours. After centrifugation, and equilibrated with 95%O2/5% CO2 and the cells were resuspended in lysis buffer (10 incubated at 37°C. Aftervaryingtimeintervals mmol/l TRIS, 1 mmol/l EDTA (pH 7.5) con- (30 minutes to 24 hours), the specimens were taining 0.2% Triton X-100) and incubated at placed in either 0.9% NaCI containing 10% room temperature for 10 minutes. The lysates formalin (forroutine histological examination) were centrifuged at 13OOOXg for 10 minutes or fixative for electron microscopy (see later). and the supernatant (containing fragmented In some studies, cells that had become DNA) was incubated overnight, at 37°C with detached from the specimens were collected proteinase K (final concentration 0.1 mg/ml; and processed for electron microscopy (see Boehringer Mannheim, Lewes, UK). After later). phenol-chloroform extraction twice and ethanol precipitation, the DNA was incubated forone hourat
