Gut 1996;38: 337-347 337
KEYWORDS: cells, epithelial, toxin, cell, epithelial cells, studies, colonic, culture, hours, apoptosis, detached, caco-, difficile, lines, organ


proteinase K (final concentration 0.1 mg/ml; and processed for electron microscopy (see Boehringer Mannheim, Lewes, UK). After later). phenol-chloroform extraction twice and ethanol precipitation, the DNA was incubated forone hourat 37°C with 50 jig/ml RNAse A. Isolation andculture ofprimarycolonicepithelial DNA was subsequently analysed on a 1% cells agarose gel. Colonicepithelialcellswereisolatedfromfresh operationresectionspecimens (seven) asprevi- ously described.'7 Normal mucosa (at least AssayofIL8 5 cm from tumour) was placed in RPMI (at IL8 production by epithelial cell lines and 4°C) within 10 minutes of colonic resection. EDTA detached primary colonic epithelial Epithelial cells were obtained by incubating cellswas studied. The epithelial cell lines were mucosal stripsinHank'sbalancedsaltsolution grownto confluency (asdescribedabove) in24 without calcium and magnesium (HBSS; well plates and cells washed three times with 1 mmol/l EDTA (Sigma Chemical, St Louis, ofdifferent concentration oftoxinA (10-1000 30 minute periods in a shaking water bath at lectedandthecells (stilladherenttotheplates) 37°C.Thedetachedepithelialcells (containing gently washed before culture for a further surface and crypt cells) were pooled and 24 hours in fresh medium (in the absence of washed twice with HBSS before culture in toxin A). Supernatants were centrifuged at 10%FCS/RPMIatconcentration of1X106/ml 10000Xg, at room temperature, for 10 or 5X106/ml. The cultured cells were used for minutes and aliquots stored at -70°C. morphological studiesbytransmissionelectron Primary colonic epithelial cells were cul- microscopy (TEM), studies ofDNA degrada- tured (in 10% FCS/RPMI only) at a concen- tion, and ofIL8 production (see later). tration of 5X106/ml for three hours and 24 hours. After centrifugation (10OOOXgatroom temperature), supernatants and cell pellets Electron microscopy were collected. The cell pellets were resus- After organ culture, colonic biopsy specimens pended in 1 ml 10% FCS/RPMI and cells were immersed in 2-5% gluteraldehyde (in lysed by three freeze/thaw cycles. Aliquots of 0 1Mcacodylatebuffer,pH7.4) fortwohours. supernatants and lysates were stored at Tissueslices (1-2mmthick) werefurtherfixed -700C. for 12 hours. Epithelial monolayers on cover- IL8was assayedusingasandwichELISA (R slips and cells in suspension (those detached and D Systems, Minneapolis, MN). The inter from toxin A treated monolayers and biopsy and intra-assay variation for this assay in our tissues in organ culture as well as isolated laboratory was less than 12%. Initial studies primary colonocytes) were fixed in the above showedthatneithertoxinA (at concentrations fixative for two hours. The cells in suspension of up to 1000 ng/ml), nor the culture media were centrifuged at 600Xg for 10 minutes. used, interfere with the detection ofIL8. After washing, the cell pellets were recen- trifuged in plasma and
