Gut 1996;38: 337-347 337
KEYWORDS: cells, epithelial, toxin, cell, epithelial cells, studies, colonic, culture, hours, apoptosis, detached, caco-, difficile, lines, organ


1000 ng/ml), nor the culture media were centrifuged at 600Xg for 10 minutes. used, interfere with the detection ofIL8. After washing, the cell pellets were recen- trifuged in plasma and fixed for a further four hours before cutting into 1 mm cubes. All the Statisticalanalysis samples were subsequently washed in phos- Data were analysed by one way analysis of phate buffered saline (PBS) and post-fixed in variance and Student's ttest. 1% osmium tetroxide for one hour before dehydrating in ethanol and embedding in Epon resin, according to standard pro- Results cedures.'8 Suitable areas for TEM were selected from 0.5 pum toluidine blue stained EFFECT OF CDIFFICILETOXINA ON INTESTINAL sections. Theywerestainedwithuranylacetate EPITHELIAL CELLLINES andleadcitrate,beforebeingobservedinaJeol In the studies described below, initial experi- 1200 EXtransmission electron microscope. ments showed no significant differences in the responses by cells cultured in medium only comparedwith those cultured inmedium con- Analysis ofDNA degradation taining control buffer (used involumes similar The studies of DNA fragmentation were to those for toxin A). Therefore in all sub- performed by modification of a previously sequent experiments with the epithelial cells described technique.19 EDTA detached lines, cell culture medium only was used as 340 Mahida, Makh,Hyde, Gray,Boriello each ofthe three cell lines studied. The time course over which the changes occurred was dependentuponthe celltypestudied aswellas the concentration of the toxin present in the culturemedium. The earliest morphological changes occurred at concentrations of toxin A of 100 ng/ml or greater (up to 1000 ng/ml) with cell rounding within the first six hours in Caco-2 and HT-29 cells and at 24 hours in T84 cells. Atlowerconcentrations ofthe toxin, rounding ofall the cells was seen in Caco-2 and HT-29 monolayers at 24 hours. Caco-2 (Fig 1) and T84 cells were subsequently studied in more detail. The rounded epithelial cells subse- quently began to detach from the bottom of the culture dish while remaining adherent to eachother. Atconcentrations oftoxinAof100 ng/ml or greater, 50% or more ofthe Caco-2 monolayer became detached at 24 hours, and usuallyby48hoursthemonolayerhadbecome completely detached from the culture dish. In T84 monolayers, cell detachment from the culture dishes was not apparent until after 48 Figure1:Phasecontrastphotomicrographof(A) control and(B) toxinAexposed(1000ng/mlfor24hours) hours of exposure to the toxin. Cells within Caco-2monolayers. Caco-2cellswereculturedforthree the detached monolayers initially remained weeksafterconfluencybeforeexposuretotoxinA. Closely adherent to each other. Subsequently, floating apposedpolygonalcellsareseeninthecontrolmonolayer, whichalsocontainsadomeregion (arrow). ToxinA individual cells, smaller in size than those exposedmonolayershowscellroundingandfocallossof adherent to each other, appeared in increasing cell-cellcontacts. NotevidentfromtheFigureisthefact numberswithtime. thatasignificantproportionofthemonolayerhasalso
