Gut 1996;38: 337-347 337
KEYWORDS: cells, epithelial, toxin, cell, epithelial cells, studies, colonic, culture, hours, apoptosis, detached, caco-, difficile, lines, organ


Inthetoxinexposedspecimen, the (Fig 9), confirmed by their characteristic epithelialcellsareroundandmosthavebecomedetached pattern ofDNAdegradation (Fig 10). f o r th o e m r. t A he n ba u s m e b m e e r nt of m e e p m it b h r el a i n al e ce ( l l l a s rg a e re ar al r s o o w) un a d n er d g f o r i o n m g each TEM studies on cultured epithelial cells also apoptosis (smallarrowsshowsomeofthesecells). showed that the small number of viable cells presentwerelargerthanthoseundergoingapop- been exposed to lower concentrations of the tosis andwereadherentto otherviable cells. toxin (10 ng/ml and 100 ng/ml) without any morphological changes (when compared with control). The preparation oftoxin A used for IL8production byEDTA detachedcolonic this 'non-responder' was biologically active in epithelialcells organ cultures from other subjects, as well as TheabilityofEDTAdetachedepithelialcellsto on epithelial celllines. produce IL8 during culture (in the absence of Where toxin A had an effect in the organ toxinA) was alsoexamined (Fig 11). Verylittle cultures, the earliest morphological changes IL8 was detected in lysates of epithelial cells were seen in the surface epithelial cells, with obtainedsoonafterdetachment(thatis,notcul- cell rounding and detachment from the base- tured). After culture for three hours, a large ment membrane. These changes were first amount ofIL8 was detected in the cell lysates, seen after exposure to the toxin for one hour, but considerably lower values in the super- the crypt cells were not usually affected atthis natants. Theconversewasthe caseafterculture stage. By 24 hours, however, both surface and for 24 hours suggesting that the cytokine had crypt cells were affected and a number of beenreleasedfromthe cellsbythistime. smaller apoptotic cells were seen by light microscopy (Fig7Aand B). TEM studies ofcontrol 24 hour organ cul- Discussion tures (in medium with control buffer only) AnimalstudieshaveshownthatCdifficiletoxin often showed ultrastructural changes in some A plays an essential part in inducing intestinal epithelial cells, characterised by cell processes inflammation.8-10 Studies in hamsters using (Fig 8A). However, these epithelial cells purifiedpreparations oftoxinAandB, suggest remained adherenttothebasementmembrane thattoxinAisrequiredtobreachtheepithelial and to each other, and appeared viable ultra- barrierto allowtoxinB accessintothe mucosa structurally. TEM studies of organ culture to mediate its effects.'0 Responses by colonic 344 Mahida,Makh,Hyde, Gray,Boriello In previous studies where the small intesti- * 'BB.k` nal and colonic mucosa of animals was exposed to toxinAforaperiod ofa fewhours, damagewasusuallyconfinedtomatureentero- cytes with sparing
