Gut 1996;38: 337-347 337
KEYWORDS: cells, epithelial, toxin, cell, epithelial cells, studies, colonic, culture, hours, apoptosis, detached, caco-, difficile, lines, organ


by colonic 344 Mahida,Makh,Hyde, Gray,Boriello In previous studies where the small intesti- * 'BB.k` nal and colonic mucosa of animals was exposed to toxinAforaperiod ofa fewhours, damagewasusuallyconfinedtomatureentero- cytes with sparing of crypts.20 In addition, binding of labelled toxin A has also been showntobeconfinedlargelytomatureentero- cytes of rabbit ileal explants.22 Our studies weretherefore initiallybasedonthehypothesis thattoxinAinduces damage to mature surface colonic epithelial cells with sparing of crypt cells, and that the latter respond to injury to the surface epithelial cellsbyproducing IL8 to initiate a cascade of events leading to severe inflammation. We therefore investigated the biological responses to C difficile toxin A by human colonic epithelial cell lines that reflect the phenotypic characteristics of mature enterocytes and crypt cells. Thus confluent monolayers of Caco-2 cells were used as a model for mature enterocytes"l and T84 cells asamodelforcolonic cryptcells.12HT29 cells were studied under conditions in which they remainlargelyundifferentiated. Morphologically, responses of the cells in Figure8: Transmissionelectronmicrographsof(A) controland(B-D) toxinAexposed the epithelial cell lines were characterised by (1000ng/mlfor24hours) colonicbiopsyspecimen. Thecontrolspecimenshows cell rounding and detachment from the extra- preservationofepithelialintegrt althoughsomecellshaveprocesses (arrow) intheirlateral aspectswithsomeseparationfromneighbouringcells. IntoxinAexposedspecimens (B, C, cellular matrix coating of the culture dish. D) epithelialcellsareroundandmanyhavebecomedetachedfromthebasementmembrane These detached cells initially remained adher- (largearrow). Notealsothepresenceofheterogeneousvacuolarstructuresinmanyaffected ent to each other and were viable as shown by cells (especiallyinB). Manybasementmembranedetachedcellsremainadherenttoeach otherandappearviable. Cellsundergoingapoptosisarealsopresent (smallarrows). Partof theirabilityto exclude the dye trypanblue and acell(*;probablyamacrophage) isseentobemigratingoutofthelaminapropria, viaa ultrastructural features. These cells were also basementmembranepore, in (D). showntobemetabolicallyactive asassessedby mitochondrial dehydrogenase activity in the MTT assays. epithelial cells to toxin A may therefore repre- Individual, smaller, detached cells, which sent early initiating events, which ultimately were trypan blue positive subsequently began lead to severe intestinal inflammation com- to appear in culture. Studies byTEM showed monly seen in patients with pseudomembra- that these cells had characteristic features of nous colitis. cells undergoing apoptosis.23 Previous studies have shown that apoptotic cells are usually much smaller than on-apoptotic cells.24 Other features, which include breakdown of the nucleus into discrete spherical structures, fol- lowed by the formation ofapoptotic bodies,25 were also seen. Caco-2 cells were more sensi- tivetotoxinAthanT84 cells, asshownbyear- lier cell detachment and increase in the proportion oftrypanblue positive cells, aswell as an early fall in the mitochondrial dehydro- genase activity. The sequence of events induced bytoxin A (in the confluent epithelial cell lines) ofcell rounding, detachment ofthe monolayer,andsubsequentcelldeathbyapop- tosis over a prolonged period oftime has not beendescribedpreviously. To find out ifthe responses ofthese carci- noma derived cell lines
