Gut 1996;38: 337-347 337
KEYWORDS: cells, epithelial, toxin, cell, epithelial cells, studies, colonic, culture, hours, apoptosis, detached, caco-, difficile, lines, organ


the confluent epithelial cell lines) ofcell rounding, detachment ofthe monolayer,andsubsequentcelldeathbyapop- tosis over a prolonged period oftime has not beendescribedpreviously. To find out ifthe responses ofthese carci- noma derived cell lines reflect those ofcells in vivo, primary epithelial cells in organ cultures ofcolonic biopsy specimens were also investi- gated. In specimens in which toxin A induced changes, responses by the primary epithelial cells were morphologically similar to those seen in the toxin exposed epithelial cell lines. Although they occurred over a shorter time period, the responses of the primary colono- cytes were observed at similar concentrations Figure9: Transmission electronmicrographofthreehour oftoxinAtothoseinducinganalogouschanges cultured,EDTA detachedgobletcell. Thecellisundergoing in the cell lines. The earliest morphological apoptosis;nucleusofthegobletcellisdarkerthanthatofa neighbouringcell(becauseitcontainsdensechromatin). changes in the organ cultures were seen after EffectofClostridiumdifficiletoxinAonhumanintestinalepithelialcells 345 Time (h) Interestingly, specimens from one of five subjects did not show any morphological changes despite exposure to high concentra- tions oftoxin A (100 and 1000 ng/ml for 24 hours). ThelackofresponsetotoxinAinthese samples could result from the absence of receptors for toxin A. At present there is no information on the nature ofsuchreceptors in humans. ThelackofsuchreceptorsfortoxinA on colonic epithelial cells may explain the absence ofintestinal disease in some subjects colonisedwithtoxigenic Cdifficile.26-28 1335 In the epithelial cells that do respond to toxinA,celldetachmentandsubsequentapop- tosiscouldbothbespecificallymediatedbythe toxin. Alternatively, apoptosis may represent 603 an inherent response by epithelial cells to detachment from the basement membrane. 310 We therefore performed experiments to dis- cover if primary colonic epithelial cells detached by other means will also undergo Figure10:AgarosegelelectrophoresisofDNA isolatedfrom apoptosis. In cultures of EDTA detached EDTAdetachedcolonicepithelialcellsculturedfortwo, three, and24hours (inmediumonly). DNAsizemarkers normal colonocytes, death by apoptosis was areshowninbasepairsontheleft. Characteristic 'ladder' seen in many cells over a short time period. It patternisprominentinDNAisolatedfromtwohourand is probable, therefore, that apoptosis of the threehourcultures. epithelial cells in response to Cdifficile toxinA occurs because the cells are denied anchorage onehour, withroundingofsurface enterocytes to the basement membrane. Such a proposi- and detachment from the basement mem- tion is supported by recent studies.29-3' Cell brane. Crypt cells were affected later when surface integrin attachment to extracellular apoptotic cells were also seen. These findings, matrix is postulated to be important in main- as well as the relative resistance ofT84 cells taining cell viability and circumventing the (compared with Caco-2 cells), suggest that apoptotic response.3' Our studies show that colonic crypt cells invivo are more resistant to such responses are probably operative in the the effect of toxin A than the mature surface human intestine in vivo. enterocytes.
