Gut 1996;38: 337-347 337
KEYWORDS: cells, epithelial, toxin, cell, epithelial cells, studies, colonic, culture, hours, apoptosis, detached, caco-, difficile, lines, organ


that colonic crypt cells invivo are more resistant to such responses are probably operative in the the effect of toxin A than the mature surface human intestine in vivo. enterocytes. Therelativeresistanceofthecrypt The mechanism by which Cdifficile toxin A cells mayallow themtime to respondto injury induces detachment of epithelial cells is by producing cytokines such as IL8, as sug- unknown. Detachment ofthe epithelial mono- gested by the ability of T84 cells to produce layers couldbe mediatedbyproteases secreted this cytokine inresponse totoxinA. by the epithelial cells in response to toxin A. However, cultureofthe cellsinthepresence of 1400 toxinAandproteaseinhibitors (phenylmethyl- sulphonyl fluoride, leupeptin, and pepstatin, individually or in combination) did not inhibit 1200 detachment of the epithelial monolayers (unpublished data). A number ofstudies have shown that the toxin A induced cell rounding 1000 is associated with disruption of the actin cytoskeleton.32-34Actinfilamentsareanchored to cytoplasmic domains ofthe integrin family 800 of transmembrane proteins by a number of anchoring cytoskeletal proteins. Epithelial cell 0. 700- L adhesionto extracellularmatrixis mediatedby 670000- the extracellular domains of integrin mole- -i cules. Thus, it can be postulated that disrup- tion of the actin cytoskeleton may affect 400 integrinbindingtotheextracellularmatrixand hence lead to cell detachment. A consistent finding in our studies was that 200 afterdetachmentfromtheextracellularmatrix, theepithelialcellsappearedviablewhileadher- ent to one or more cells via cell junctions. In 0 3 suchcloselyassociated cells, anearlyfeature of 0 a cell undergoing apoptosis was the loss of Length ofculture (h) desmosomal plaques (unpublished data). It is Figure11:IL8productionbyEDTAdetachedprimary humancolonicepithelialcels. Isolatedepithelialcells notpossible from ourstudies, however, to dis- (SX106/ml) werestudiedbefore (0hours) andafterculture cover ifapoptosis (after detachment from the (inmediumonly)forthreehoursand24hours. Celllysates extracellular matrix) occurs as a consequence I ( L O l) by an E d LI su S p A e . rn * at a H nt o s ur ( s E v ) th w r e e r e e h s o u u b r s s eq l u y e sa n t t e l , y p a < s sa y ed ; for ofdetachment ofcells from each other orvice tthreehoursv24hourssupernatant,p<0.1. versa. Recent studies support the first rather 346 Mahida,Makh,Hyde, Gray,Borriello than the second proposal. Loss of adherence British Society ofGastroenterology (Gut 1994; 35 (suppl 5): S38) and American Gastroenterological Association between intestinal epithelial cells has been (Gastroenterology 1995;108:A868). shownto induce apoptosis35 andsuchfindings would be consistent with the concept of a 1 Bartlett JG, Chang TW, Gurwith M, Gorbach SL, requirement
