Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


ABSTRACT The effective treatment of obesity is challenging. This in part reflects the complexity of the underlying disease process. However, there are a growing number of effective surgical, endoscopic, and pharmacologic treatments which are available. Although there has long been a preference on lifestyle modification such as diet and exercise, there is a relative paucity of evidence to support these interventions as effective long-term treatments for obesity, in producing sustained weight loss and resultant improvements in obesity related disease and mortality. Conversely, bariatric procedures which include sleeve gastrectomy, roux en Y gastric bypass, single anastomosis gastric bypass, biliopancreatic diversion, and several less frequently performed operations have been shown to produce substantial and durable weight loss with significant improvements in obesity related disease, quality of life, and mortality. The mechanisms by which these operations work vary depending on the procedure however they primarily act via alterations in the gut-brain axis and alterations in neurohormonal signaling. These changes produce sustained changes in appetite and hunger and unlike weight loss mediated by diet are not followed by a rebound weight regain in the long term. In addition, there appear to be modifications in bile acid metabolism and the gut microbiome which also play a contributory role in weight loss following bariatric surgery. The criteria for consideration of bariatric surgery have recently been updated to reflect advances in knowledge, surgical technique, and safety. According to the 2022 guidelines produced by the International Federation for the Surgery of Obesity and Metabolic Disorders (IFSO), people with a BMI >35kg/m 2 should be recommended surgery and those with BMI 30-34.9kg/m 2 with metabolic disease should be considered. It is important to involve the multidisciplinary team in determining suitability for surgery as well as for long-term follow up ( 1 ). The multidisciplinary team typically includes a dietician, psychologist, physician, and surgeon. The decision on which procedure should be used is based on patient or surgeon preference, availability of appropriate aftercare and the patient’s tolerance of risk and permanent anatomical change. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . BACKGROUND The hallmark of an effective treatment of obesity is not one which can produce clinically weight loss, rather one which can produce weight loss which is sustained in the long term such that there is an improvement in obesity related disease and mortality. Although diet and lifestyle modification has
