Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


which can produce weight loss which is sustained in the long term such that there is an improvement in obesity related disease and mortality. Although diet and lifestyle modification has long been the cornerstone of many obesity treatment programs, the primary concern with such approaches including very low energy diets (VLED) is the durability of weight loss. Randomized controlled trials have shown that weight loss of up to 15% is possible in people living with obesity however less than 10% will maintain this over one year and the majority will return to their pre-diet weight within 3-5 years ( 2 ). Conversely, bariatric surgery has been demonstrated to produce weight loss of 20-30% which critically is not only sustained in the long-term but has the effect of modifying the underlying disease process and resetting of the homeostatic weight ‘set point’, primarily through neurohormonal changes ( 3 , 4 ). The concept of the set point suggests that in the majority of adults, there is a pre-determined inherent weight around which each individual will maintain their weight over the long-term with a gradual increase seen over time. Following a period of volitional weight loss with dietary changes, there is a decrease in the overall weight followed by several homeostatic adaptations which see a return to the original baseline weight. Following bariatric surgery, irrespective of the procedure performed, there tends to be an initial period of rapid weight loss for the first 18 months followed by a period of weight stability and a subsequent very gradual weight regain. In spite of the recognized weight regain, what is critical is that overall, following surgery, there is a new, lower set point with a similar weight gain trajectory as to what is seen in the general population. It was initially felt that bariatric procedures could be classified according to the mechanism by which they were thought to act, resulting in the description of ‘restrictive’ and ‘malabsorptive’ procedures however subsequent mechanistic studies have demonstrated this to be incorrect as they were recognized to act via alterations in neurohormonal signaling, bile acid metabolism, and changes in the microbiome ( 5 ). The longest-term data establishing the role of bariatric surgery as a treatment for obesity compared to traditional lifestyle interventions comes from the landmark Swedish Obese Subjects (SOS) study ( 3 ). With more than 25 years of follow up, this case-control series demonstrated that irrespective
