Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


to traditional lifestyle interventions comes from the landmark Swedish Obese Subjects (SOS) study ( 3 ). With more than 25 years of follow up, this case-control series demonstrated that irrespective of the procedure performed, bariatric surgery produces sustained weight loss which is maintained long term and supports a reduction in all-cause mortality due to cardiovascular causes and cancer compared to matched controls receiving standard care at the time ( 6 ). Critically, in addition to producing sustained weight loss, evidence from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have consistently supported the efficacy of bariatric surgery in the treatment of obesity related disease, specifically type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) compared to medical treatment ( 7 - 18 ). In light of improvements in glycemic control and even remission of diabetes in a subset of people with obesity, bariatric surgery forms a central element in the treatment algorithm as endorsed by the American Diabetes Association (ADA) and International Diabetes Federation (IDF) for those with obesity and T2DM. Early views of gastrointestinal surgery as a means of permanently curing diabetes have been replaced by a more realistic view that it is more likely a means of inducing remission and improving long term glycemic control. Longer-term data from studies has now demonstrated that one in four people who initially go into remission will experience a relapse of T2DM ( 7 ). Despite this, it is essential to recognize that although some of the metabolic improvements associated with surgery dissipate with time, glycemic control is still very good compared to those treated with medication alone. As demonstrated by the UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS), there is a legacy effect of even a short period of improved glycemic control on the development of diabetes-related complications, cardiovascular endpoints and mortality ( 19 ). Thus, even individuals who do not meet the ADA criteria for diabetes remission, these improvements in glycemic control should not be dismissed as they may have important implications for morbidity and mortality. A HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE OF BARIATRIC SURGERY Surgical procedures involving the upper gastrointestinal tract have long been recognized to result in substantial and sustained reductions in weight, albeit most often to the detriment of the patient. Although the mechanisms producing this weight loss were at the time very poorly understood, it became apparent that this effect could be used within the context of obesity to potentially produce surgically mediated weight loss with an improvement in
