Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


the time very poorly understood, it became apparent that this effect could be used within the context of obesity to potentially produce surgically mediated weight loss with an improvement in metabolic disease. Small Bowel Bypass Procedures (1950-1970) Surgical management of obesity began with the introduction of the jejunoileal bypass (JIB) in 1954 ( 20 ). In this procedure, the proximal jejunum was diverted to distal part of the gut, leaving a long segment of excluded small intestine and a marked reduction in absorptive capacity. Although the JIB offered substantial and sustained weight loss with improvements in lipid metabolism, it was associated with serious side-effects including diarrhea, electrolyte imbalances, oxalate calculi in the kidneys, and progressive hepatic fibrosis with eventual liver failure ( 21 - 25 ). Given the seriousness of these complications, these procedures were generally abandoned by the 1970s in favor of so-called stomach stapling procedures. Stomach Stapling Procedures (1970-1990) The Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) operation was introduced by Edward Mason in 1960 ( 26 ) and gastroplasty in 1973 ( 27 ). Numerous variations of this procedure have followed, the most significant variant being the vertical banded gastroplasty (VBG) which was first described by Dr Mason in 1982 ( 28 ) . It was hoped that this group of operations would provide greater short- and long-term safety and yet retain the power of gastric bypass. Unfortunately, both randomized controlled trials and observational studies have consistently shown that it failed in both aspirations ( 29 - 32 ). In the meantime, there was a resurgence of hypoabsorptive surgery with Italian surgeon, Nicola Scopinaro, introducing the biliopancreatic diversion procedure (BPD) in 1976 ( 33 ). The basic procedure involves distal gastrectomy leaving a proximal gastric pouch of 200 – 500 ml, a 200 cm length of terminal ileum anastomosed to the gastric pouch, and the biliopancreatic limb entering at 50 cm from the ileocecal valve ( 34 ). The most notable remodeling of the procedure has been the so-called duodenal switch variant (BPD-DS) proposed by Picard Marceau’s group in 1993 ( 35 , 36 ) in which a longitudinal gastrectomy (sleeve gastrectomy) enabled retention of the gastric antrum for controlled gastric emptying, and the ileal limb was anastomosed to the proximal duodenum. Adoption of the Laparoscopic Approach One of the most remarkable advances in bariatric surgery came with the near universal adoption of a laparoscopic approach. The reduced invasiveness resulted
