Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


proximal duodenum. Adoption of the Laparoscopic Approach One of the most remarkable advances in bariatric surgery came with the near universal adoption of a laparoscopic approach. The reduced invasiveness resulted in major improvements in safety with regard to morbidity and mortality, irrespective of the procedure performed. This contributed to a major rise in the use of bariatric surgery for obesity across the world. According to the most recent IFSO Global Registry Report, 99.7% of all primary bariatric procedures undertaken worldwide are done laparoscopically ( 37 ). One of the first laparoscopic procedures to gain widespread acceptance was the laparoscopic adjustable gastric band (LAGB) which had been specifically designed as a standalone laparoscopic procedure in 1993. Proponents of the LAGB felt the procedure offered two primary benefits; there was an improved safety profile as it did not require the formation of any gastrointestinal anastomoses while also providing the option of a procedure which could be specifically tailored to individual needs; and allowing for band filling and deflation without requiring further surgery. LAGB became the most commonly performed bariatric procedure worldwide throughout the 1990s with only the United States not seeing widespread adoption due to regulatory restrictions which were only resolved in 2001. The adoption of laparoscopic RYGB started within a similar timeframe as LAGB however, the technical challenge associated with the formation of two gastrointestinal anastomoses contributed to a slower uptake. As surgical techniques advanced, in part due to the development of more advanced stapling devices, RYGB became the most commonly performed bariatric procedure worldwide. The adoption of sleeve gastrectomy (SG) has steadily risen in recent years, now accounting for approximately 60% of procedures world-wide, therefore overtaking RYGB which accounted for 29.5% as of 2023 ( 37 ).This increase is in part driven by the perception that it is less technically challenging than procedures such as RYGB as no anastomosis is formed. Although RYGB and SG continue to account for the majority of procedures, the adoption of laparoscopic surgery has not only increased safety associated with bariatric surgery but has also contributed to the development of several new operations. One anastomosis gastric bypass (OAGB) is particularly noteworthy with regard to its increasing popularity and growing evidence base to support it as both safe and effective in terms of weight loss and resolution of metabolic co-morbidity. OAGB currently accounts for approximately 4% of procedures world-wide although the number has steadily risen in
