Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


both safe and effective in terms of weight loss and resolution of metabolic co-morbidity. OAGB currently accounts for approximately 4% of procedures world-wide although the number has steadily risen in recent years ( 37 ). Overall, the availability of several safe and effective laparoscopic bariatric procedures allows for greater ability to choose an operation that meets both the expectations and need of the individual while matching this with the skill set of the surgeon and moving the field closer to an era of precision medicine. CURRENT METHODS IN BARIATRIC SURGERY Sleeve Gastrectomy The sleeve gastrectomy (SG) has become the most commonly performed bariatric procedure worldwide. Although initially conceived as part of the two-stage duodenal switch procedure SG has become a standalone operation having recognized the substantial weight loss it produces as well as improvement in obesity associated disease. SG involves excision of approximately 80% of the stomach by using multiple firings of a linear stapler/cutter to separate a narrow tube or sleeve of the lesser curve of the stomach from the greater curve. The initial firing starts approximately 4-7cm proximal to the pylorus which is preserved to maintain gastric emptying. A bougie (usually >32Fr) is placed in the lesser curve segment during the resection to maintain adequate lumen size. Although there is variability in the precise size, a 2012 consensus statement recommended the use of a bougie between 32-40Fr ( 38 ). SG is relatively contraindicated in those with significant gastro-esophageal reflux disease (GERD) due to the high risk of worsening of pre-existing reflux and which can be difficult to manage symptomatically and may also play a role in the development of Barrett’s esophagus. Due to this potential risk, it is advised by the International Federation for the Surgery of Obesity (IFSO) that any person undergoing SG have surveillance endoscopy one year postoperatively and then every 2-3 years thereafter ( 39 ). Other recognized complications of SG include staple line leak and bleeding in the early postoperative period as well as de novo or worsening of GERD and stricture. As the gastric remnant is removed, SG is not a reversible procedure. Although initially and incorrectly classified as a procedure that acted via mechanical restriction, mechanistic studies have demonstrated that SG acts by modifying key neurohormones including GLP-1 and PYY which regulate hunger, appetite, and satiety via the gut-brain axis ( 40 ). SG is also thought to reduce hunger through
