Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


acts by modifying key neurohormones including GLP-1 and PYY which regulate hunger, appetite, and satiety via the gut-brain axis ( 40 ). SG is also thought to reduce hunger through resection of the gastric fundus which is the site of ghrelin production ( 41 ). Figure 1. Sleeve gastrectomy. Laparoscopic Adjustable Gastric Banding (LAGB) At one time LAGB was one of the most commonly performed bariatric procedures, however, it is now infrequently performed due to the perceived high complication and re-operation rate as well as the mounting evidence to support that that it does not produce equivalent weight loss to procedures such as SG and RYGB. Although previous studies have demonstrated nearly 50% excess weight loss that can be maintained with >15 year follow up, the major caveat was the requirement for very close follow up with regular band adjustments which was not sustainable in real world practice ( 42 ). In spite of the apparent limitations of the LAGB, the less invasive nature of the operation and potential reversibility of the procedure make it a potential consideration for those who are considered higher risk. Recognized complications of LAGB include port site infection, GERD, pouch dilatation, band slippage and erosion. Studies have suggested that up to 50% of those who have a LAGB will require reoperation or band removal ( 43 ). The exact mechanisms of action of the LAGB are unclear however they are thought to act beyond the pure mechanical effect by involving vagal afferents ( 44 ). Vagal stimulation may help regulate food intake by promoting satiety. Figure 2. The band consists of a ring of silicone with an inner balloon. The balloon is connected to an access port. Figure 3. The LAGB is placed over the cardia of the stomach within 1cm of the esophago-gastric junction. Roux en Y Gastric Bypass (RYGB) Roux en Y gastric bypass is now less commonly performed than SG due in part to the technical challenge of forming two anastomoses and previous lack of level one evidence demonstrating its superiority in terms of weight loss or resolution of obesity related disease. The emergence of recent data from several RCTs appears to support that RYGB may produce significantly higher weight loss than SG with greater improvements in obesity related disease including dyslipidemia and gastro-esophageal reflux disease (GERD). Overall, there is good long-term evidence to support the efficacy of RYGB as a safe
