Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


SG with greater improvements in obesity related disease including dyslipidemia and gastro-esophageal reflux disease (GERD). Overall, there is good long-term evidence to support the efficacy of RYGB as a safe procedure which provides significant and durable weight loss with a significant improvement in metabolic complications such as T2DM ( 7 , 45 ). It is also the procedure of choice in those with significant pre-existing GERD and obesity rather than SG ( 46 ) . Similar to SG, studies have shown that RYGB produces weight loss through changes in gut hormones, namely GLP-1 and PYY, an effect which is believed to be in part the result of early delivery of nutrient in the terminal ileum and passage of undiluted bile in the bypass and the proximal jejunum ( 4 , 5 ). These changes appear within days of surgery and as well as producing long-term reductions in weight are also responsible for the weight-loss independent improvements in glucose homeostasis which occur in the immediate postoperative period. RYGB involves the formation of a small gastric pouch with an excluded gastric remnant. A loop of jejunum is then brought up and anastomosed to the gastric pouch to form the gastro-jejunostomy with the alimentary limb distal to this. Within the alimentary limb, ingested food is excluded from mixing with any digestive enzymes as the proximal jejunum has been bypassed. Approximately 100-120cm distal to the gastro-jejunostomy, a second anastomosis is formed between the biliary limb and the alimentary limb to form the jejuno-jejunostomy. It is only distal to this anastomosis that there is mixing of food and bile. Although this is overall a very safe procedure, the most potentially serious complication which may arise is bowel obstruction or ischemia secondary to an internal hernia as two mesenteric defects are created during the procedure. Both mesenteric defects are typically closed intraoperatively, however, they may increase in size over time following weight loss and as the fat content of the mesentery decreases. Studies would support the routine closure of mesenteric defects but doing so is associated with an increased risk of complications associated with small bowel obstruction at the jejunojejunostomy ( 47 ). Additional complications include the possibility of anastomotic leaks or stricture and staple line bleeding. A small minority of people may also develop chronic abdominal pain which may be challenging to treat. It is also worth noting that due to the anatomical changes produced
