Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


bleeding. A small minority of people may also develop chronic abdominal pain which may be challenging to treat. It is also worth noting that due to the anatomical changes produced by RYGB, future procedures such as ERCP may require alternative approaches to accessing the excluded proximal duodenum via the remnant stomach. This may also be of concern in populations where there is concern about gastric cancer as the remnant stomach cannot be assessed by standard esophagogastroduodenoscopy. Figure 4. RYGB showing a small gastric pouch, a narrow gastrojejunostomy and exclusion of foods from the duodenum and proximal jejunum . One Anastomosis Gastric Bypass (OAGB) The one gastric bypass is increasingly popular as an alternative to the RYGB owing in part to the fact that it produces significant weight loss but requires the formation of only one anastomosis. OAGB involves the formation of a small gastric pouch to which a loop of jejunum is anastomosed to form a gastro-jejunostomy. Unlike the RYGB, there is only one anastomosis and the length of duodenum and proximal jejunum which is bypassed is much longer, typically up to 150cm ( 48 , 49 ). ( figure 5 ). The mechanism of action is thought to be very similar to that of RYGB in that it results in changes in gut hormone signaling via bypass of the proximal duodenum and studies to date would suggest that weight loss outcomes as a result are comparable ( 48 ). These changes are also responsible for the improvements in glucose homeostasis and resolution or improvement of T2DM. Given the relative lack of long-term follow up on OAGB, there are concerns regarding the potential implications of chronic bile acid reflux and the possibility of inducing gastric and esophageal malignancy, however, there is no high-quality evidence at present to support these concerns. Figure 5. OAGB showing the gastric pouch as a sleeve of lesser curve of stomach and the loop gastrojejunostomy. Biliopancreatic Diversion / Duodenal Switch (BPD/DS) Although BPD/DS is not amongst the most commonly performed bariatric procedures, accounting for only ~1% of operations worldwide, it is noteworthy for the amount of weight loss it induces as well as the resultant improvements in metabolic dysfunction. The operation is a two-stage procedure with the initial operation involving the formation of a sleeve gastrectomy with preservation of the pylorus. In the second stage, the duodenum is mobilized and divided at D1 and subsequently anastomosed
