Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


the initial operation involving the formation of a sleeve gastrectomy with preservation of the pylorus. In the second stage, the duodenum is mobilized and divided at D1 and subsequently anastomosed to the distal ileum. The duoden-ileal anastomosis forms the alimentary limb through which ingested food will pass, without mixing with digestive enzymes. A second anastomosis is then formed between the biliary limb and the distal ileum, approximately 80-100cm proximal to the ileocecal valve. The second anastomosis creates a short common channel for mixing of ingested food and digestive enzymes. The weight loss and metabolic improvements following BPD/DS are significantly greater than RYGB/OAGB and SG, however, it remains an infrequently performed procedure not only due to the technical challenges but primarily owing to significant long-term complications. As a result of the very short common channel, micronutrient and fat-soluble vitamin deficiencies are expected and long-term supplementation and monitoring is essential. The potential complications resulting from nutrient deficiency can be severe and in cases irreversible, including night blindness and Wernicke’s encephalopathy. Up to 10% will remain deficient despite adherence to dietary and nutritional guidelines and supplementation and will require re-operation ( 50 ). Figure 6. The DS variant of BPD with a sleeve gastrectomy, retention of the gastric antrum, diversion of food into the mid small gut and diversion of pancreatic and biliary secretions to the distal small gut. Note both limbs are passing behind the transverse colon and a color difference is added to help follow the respective pathways. The common channel is the normal ileum terminating at the ileo-cecal junction. Single Anastomosis Duodenal-Ileal Bypass with Sleeve (SADI-S) The SADI-S procedure is seen as a potentially simplified version of the BPD-DS procedure. Similar to BPD-DS, the procedure involves the mobilization of the duodenum followed by sleeve gastrectomy with division of the duodenum. A duodenojejunal anastomosis is subsequently formed between the duodenal stump and a loop of ileum 250-300cm proximal to the ileocecal junction which is brought up in an antecolic fashion ( 51 ). Weight loss and metabolic outcomes following SADI-S have been shown to be very good at five years with 40% total weight loss with 60-80% of individuals in T2DM remission ( 52 - 54 ). As there is a longer common channel, the risk of nutritional deficiencies is lower than seen with BPD-DS and were similar to RYGB ( 55 ). Experimental Bariatric Procedures In recent years, there has
