Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


longer common channel, the risk of nutritional deficiencies is lower than seen with BPD-DS and were similar to RYGB ( 55 ). Experimental Bariatric Procedures In recent years, there has been growing interest in non-surgical treatments for obesity including endoscopic approaches. Although long-term data is more limited, the ability to offer less invasive procedures may further broaden the population to which effective obesity treatment is available. EndoBarrier is an endoscopically placed 60cm duodenal-jejunal bypass liner which aims to replicate the effects of RYGB. Once placed within the duodenal bulb, the liner allows the flow of gastric content to the jejunum via the lumen while pancreatic content flows along the outside, preventing any mixing until the end of the liner is reached. The device can be left in situ for a maximum of 12 months with studies demonstrating a significant improvement in weight and HbA1c, however results >1 year are limited and the device does not at present have approval for use ( 56 ). MECHANISMS OF ACTION IN BARIATRIC SURGERY Although the development of the set point theory would support that for the majority of adults, there appears to be a pre-determined inherent weight around which most will not significantly deviate from in the long term, there appear to be profound changes following bariatric surgery which contribute to weight loss which is maintained. Irrespective of the procedure performed, people tend to demonstrate a similar weight loss pattern following surgery with an initial period of rapid weight loss for the first 18 months followed by a period of weight stability and a subsequent very gradual weight regain. In spite of the recognized weight regain, what is key is that overall, following surgery, there seems to be a new, lower set point and the adoption of a similar weight gain trajectory as to what is seen in the general population. Early views of bariatric surgery saw procedures characterized according to the mechanism by which they were thought to act with sleeve gastrectomy (SG) described as a volume reducing surgery, biliopancreatic diversion (BPD) seen as a hypoabsorptive procedure and Roux en Y gastric bypass (RYGB) as both. Subsequent mechanistic and behavioral studies have since produced greater insights in to the mechanisms of weight regulation, alterations in appetite and satiety and neurohormonal changes as well as bile acid metabolism which are now recognized as key regulators resulting in weight loss an improvement in metabolic
