Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


regulation, alterations in appetite and satiety and neurohormonal changes as well as bile acid metabolism which are now recognized as key regulators resulting in weight loss an improvement in metabolic dysfunction ( 41 , 57 , 58 ). Neurohormonal Changes The key to understanding many of the effects of bariatric surgery is an appreciation of the complex interaction between gut hormones and higher cortical centers which regulate appetite and satiety. Mechanistic studies following bariatric surgery have provided important insights on how these neurohormones mediate their effects as well as how these pathways may be modulated surgically and pharmacologically to produce sustained weight loss as well as improvements in metabolic dysfunction associated with obesity. Central regulation of appetite and hunger occurs primarily within several nuclei located within the hypothalamus including the arcuate nucleus (ARC) which is one of the most well defined and characterized. Within the ARC, there are distinct neuronal subtypes which respond to signals from the brain stem as well as from within the circulation to potentiate their effects on appetite and hunger. Hunger stimulating neurons found within the medial ARC express neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related peptide (AgRP) which are recognized as the primary orexigenic neurons. Animal studies have contributed to characterizing the effects of these neurons with pharmacological activation of the NPY/AgRP neurons producing a rapid increase in food intake and fat stores while decreasing energy expenditure ( 59 ). The orexigenic effects of these neurons are counterbalanced by those within the lateral ARC, including pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) and cocaine-and-amphetamine-related transcript (CART) neurons which decrease hunger and appetite α-melanocyte stimulating hormone (α-MSH) as it is one of the primary agonists of the anorectic melanocortin-4 receptor (MCR4) ( 60 ). The importance of the melanocortin pathway has been clearly illustrated by the effects of MCR4 deficiency in humans which has been identified as the most common cause of monogenic obesity. In these individuals, there is dysregulation of eating behaviors resulting in hyperphagia and obesity ( 61 ). In addition, further peripheral feedback via gastrointestinal neurohormones plays an important role in modulating appetite and satiety. Although gut hormones have long been recognized to have essential roles within the gastrointestinal tract, regulating the release of insulin and exocrine secretions as well as altering motility, their central effects in regulating metabolism and energy balance via the gut brain axis are becoming increasingly well recognized and characterized. The adipocyte derived hormone, leptin, has
