Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


as altering motility, their central effects in regulating metabolism and energy balance via the gut brain axis are becoming increasingly well recognized and characterized. The adipocyte derived hormone, leptin, has been identified as an important mediator in the regulation of body weight, serving as a marker of nutritional status and overall fat mass. Although leptin has a bidirectional effect and may affect both anorectic and orexigenic pathways, it appears to be predominantly related to the preservation of body weight. Falling leptin levels secondary to decreased fat mass appear to stimulate orexigenic NPY neurons in the ARC of the hypothalamus, mediating increased appetite and food intake ( 62 , 63 ). Although initially considered as a potential therapeutic target for those with obesity given its effects on appetite and food intake, studies have demonstrated that those with obesity have high circulating levels of leptin and may be resistant to its effects ( 64 ). Studies have shown that in people with obesity, the administration of exogenous leptin does not significantly impact food intake, nor does it result in a reduction in body weight aside from very rare cases of congenital leptin deficiency ( 65 ). Ghrelin is the only characterized peripherally derived orexigenic neuropeptide, mediating its effects on appetite centrally within the ARC of the hypothalamus by activating NPY/AgRP neurons ( 66 ). Ghrelin is primarily produced peripherally by the stomach and centrally within the pituitary gland and the two sources have been seen to have differing means of signaling. Pituitary derived ghrelin mediates its effect directly via the hypothalamus whereas ghrelin produced from within the stomach is believed to act via vagal afferents as its effects have been shown to be diminished following vagotomy ( 67 ). In addition to mediating central changes in appetite, ghrelin also produces important changes in glucose homeostasis with ghrelin being shown to inhibit glucose-stimulated insulin secretion and impairs glucose tolerance ( 68 ). The primary regulator of plasma ghrelin levels appears to be overall caloric intake with levels rising and falling in line with food intake and fasting although the exact mechanisms by which ghrelin secretion is controlled have still not been elucidated. The importance of ghrelin in long-term weight regulation in those with obesity has been supported by studies which have demonstrated increased levels of ghrelin following diet induced weight loss, a change which was not seen in those with surgically mediated weight
