Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


obesity has been supported by studies which have demonstrated increased levels of ghrelin following diet induced weight loss, a change which was not seen in those with surgically mediated weight loss following bariatric surgery ( 69 ). Furthermore in people living with obesity, the normal physiological reduction in ghrelin levels in the post-prandial period is attenuated which suggests a potential role for ghrelin in the development of obesity ( 70 ). Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) is one of the best characterized neurohormones involved in the physiological and metabolic changes mediated by bariatric surgery, acting both through central and peripheral receptors to mediate its effects. GLP-1 is an incretin hormone which is secreted by the enteroendocrine L cells primarily located within the terminal ileum and colon in response to luminal nutrient exposure, particularly fats and carbohydrates ( 71 ). Within the gastrointestinal tract, GLP-1 has an important role in regulating gastric emptying and has been demonstrated to decrease the rate of gastric emptying and increasing post prandial satiety and fullness, an effect which is thought to be mediated via the vagus nerve ( 72 ). Studies in rodent models following vagotomy have demonstrated a lack of GLP-1 secretion following ingestion of high fat test meals, supporting the importance of the vagus nerve as a mediator of this response ( 73 ). The delay in gastric emptying has also been demonstrated to have an effect on glucose absorption rates and glycemia. In those given the GLP-1 antagonist there was an increased glycemic response following a carbohydrate test meal ( 72 ). The predominant effects of GLP-1 on altering glucose metabolism occur via its action as an incretin hormone. Within the pancreas, GLP-1 binds to β-cells stimulating insulin secretion in a glucose dependent manner. In addition, GLP-1 improves glucose sensitivity in glucose resistant β-cells, allowing previously resistant β-cells to sense and respond to glucose and hyperglycemia ( 74 ). The use of GLP-1 receptor agonists have also been shown in rodents to increase β-cell proliferation while inhibiting apoptosis to increase overall β-cell mass ( 75 ). Further augmenting its effect on improving post prandial glycemia, GLP-1 also stimulates somatostatin by binding to GLP-1 receptors on pancreatic β-cells while inhibiting pancreatic glucagon secretion in a glucose dependent manner ( 76 ). Within the liver, GLP-1 inhibits hepatic glucose production while stimulating glucose uptake by muscle and adipose tissue. Centrally, GLP-1 is also produced within the
