Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


glucose dependent manner ( 76 ). Within the liver, GLP-1 inhibits hepatic glucose production while stimulating glucose uptake by muscle and adipose tissue. Centrally, GLP-1 is also produced within the nucleus of the solitary tract in the brainstem which projects to the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus which expresses GLP-1 receptors ( 77 ). The small molecular size of GLP-1 allows it to cross the blood-brain-barrier thus GLP-1 receptor agonists given peripherally are thought to mediate central effects via receptors in the hypothalamus to promote satiety and reduce energy intake, contributing to weight loss. Similar to GLP-1, peptide YY (PYY) is primarily secreted by the endocrine L cells within the terminal ileum in the postprandial period and has overlapping effects to GLP-1. Following its release, PYY results in delayed gastric emptying and decreased gastric secretion. Centrally, PYY acts within the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus by binding to the anorectic POMC neurons to inhibit feeding ( 78 ). Vagotomy results in an attenuated anorectic response to PYY, suggesting the potential role of the vagus in this pathway ( 79 ). In addition to its anorectic effects, PYY plays a role in weight maintenance via its effects on energy expenditure. In humans, peripheral infusion of PYY has been shown to increase energy expenditure as well as raising fat oxidation rates ( 80 ). Further establishing the role of PYY in body weight regulation was a study that demonstrated a negative correlation between fasting PYY levels and levels of adiposity and resting metabolic rate ( 81 ). In people living with obesity, there is a lower postprandial PYY level compared to normal body weight individuals in response to a test meal, which was associated with decreased satiety and relatively increased food intake ( 82 ). Peripheral administration of PYY produces a similar reduction in food intake in those with obesity as in those of a normal body weight, suggesting that PYY resistance is not likely contributing to the development of obesity ( 83 ). Bile Acid Metabolism In addition to the critical role neurohormones are thought to play in long-term weight regulation, changes in bile acid (BA) metabolism have been recognized as a potential key mediator, which may contribute to long term weight loss following bariatric surgery. Studies in both human and rodent models have demonstrated increased plasma bile acids following Roux en Y gastric bypass (RYGB), sleeve gastrectomy (SG), and biliopancreatic diversion (BPD)
