Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


following bariatric surgery. Studies in both human and rodent models have demonstrated increased plasma bile acids following Roux en Y gastric bypass (RYGB), sleeve gastrectomy (SG), and biliopancreatic diversion (BPD) in both human and rodent models. The farnesoid X receptor (FXR) is a nuclear BA receptor and is an important regulator of genes which are involved in BA synthesis and transport in addition to its role in lipid and glucose metabolism ( 84 ). There is growing interest that changes in BA metabolism via FXR are a key link between the alterations in BA composition following bariatric surgery and the improvements in glucose homeostasis and remission of T2DM. Studies in rodent models have supported the potential relationship between alterations in BA metabolism mediated by the FXR with weight loss and improvements in glycemic control. In mice with diet induced obesity undergoing SG and FXR receptor genetic disruption, there was a clear decrease in weight loss and improvements in glycemia compared to wild type littermates also undergoing SG, establishing the importance of a functional FXR to mediate some of the metabolic improvements following surgery ( 85 ). It is thought that the increase in plasma bile acids results in FXR activation which in turn produces an increase in FGF19 which has effects mimicking the actions of insulin, increasing glycogen synthesis while decreasing gluconeogenesis ( 86 ). Increased plasma BA are also thought to induce metabolic changes following bariatric surgery by binding to the G protein coupled receptor, TRG5, which is expressed in the distal ileum. Found within the enteroendocrine L cells, BA are thought to activate TGR5, which is a key element in the signaling pathway responsible for increasing GLP-1 production ( 86 ). In addition to the changes in glucose metabolism mediated by TGR5 activation, it is thought that this receptor may play a role in contributing to an overall shift towards a negative energy balance in the postoperative period, resulting in increased oxygen consumption and energy expenditure. Table 1. Possible Mechanisms of Bariatric Surgical Effect. View in own window Induce satiety, reduce appetite, control hunger Change of taste preference - less sweet foods; lower fat content Reduce caloric Intake Diversion from proximal duodenum Malabsorption of macronutrients Increased energy expenditure; Increased diet-induced thermogenesis Changes in the normal homeostatic adaptations to weight loss Changes in the gut microbiome Changes in plasma bile acid levels Changes in gut hormones: candidates include the
