Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


Increased diet-induced thermogenesis Changes in the normal homeostatic adaptations to weight loss Changes in the gut microbiome Changes in plasma bile acid levels Changes in gut hormones: candidates include the incretins (GLP-1; GIP), ghrelin, CCK, Peptide YY Central mechanisms: Modify hedonics; central appetite control; altered food preferences OUTCOMES AFTER BARIATRIC SURGERY Mortality And Adverse Events PERIOPERATIVE MORTALITY Although there is often a perception that bariatric surgery should be reserved as treatment of last resort when all other approaches have not been effective, this is not supported by current data. Early data on morbidity following bariatric surgery was significantly higher but has remarkably decreased in part owing to the near universal adoption of the minimally invasive approach and advances in surgical techniques. UK registry data looking at all primary bariatric operations from 2009-2016 demonstrated a 30-day mortality rate of 0.08% after discharge with an overall downward trend in mortality over the study period. Similarly, a population based study comparing 30 day, 90 day, and 1 year mortality rates demonstrated that bariatric surgery had the lowest mortality rate over all time periods compared to other common elective procedures including cholecystectomy, hysterectomy, and hip and knee arthroplasty ( 87 , 88 ). Early Adverse Events (<30 days) Overall, the incidence of adverse events in the early postoperative period is low, with similar rates seen in randomized controlled trials comparing different procedures. In a review of more than 100,000 cases, the most common early adverse events were not directly related to the procedure, rather they were myocardial infarction and pulmonary embolus which were seen in 1.15 and 1.17% of cases respectively ( 89 ). These two complications were also associated with the highest mortality rate amongst those experiencing early postoperative complications ( 89 ). Bleeding in the early postoperative period although potentially serious and requiring a return to operation room is uncommon with rates cited between 0.5% for SG and 1% following RYGB ( 90 ). Looking specifically at procedure related complications, staple line leak following SG although uncommon remains a concern as it can be challenging to treat. A systematic review of 148 studies including more than 40,000 individuals found an overall leak rate of 1.5% ( 91 ). Several techniques have been identified to help reduce the risk of leaks including reinforcement and buttressing, however, no consensus exists as to the ideal approach. Although RYGB is seen as a technically challenging procedure
