Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


identified to help reduce the risk of leaks including reinforcement and buttressing, however, no consensus exists as to the ideal approach. Although RYGB is seen as a technically challenging procedure due to the formation of two anastomoses, the risk of anastomotic leak is approximately 1% and an overall complication rate of 4.4% ( 92 , 93 ). Similar rates of anastomotic leak have been reported following OAGB ( 94 ). Late Adverse Events Depending on the specific procedure several long-term medical problems can occur and include micronutrient deficiencies, dumping syndrome, hypoglycemia, cholelithiasis, nephrolithiasis, and osteoporosis and fractures. These medical problems are discussed in detail in the Endotext chapter entitled Medical Management of the Postoperative Bariatric Surgery Patient ( 95 ). RYBG is the procedure with the greatest amount of data to support its long-term safety and efficacy. However, there are several well characterized long-term complications which may arise. Internal herniation, although rare, occurs in approximately 2-3% following RYGB, presenting with symptoms of small bowel obstruction, most commonly severe abdominal pain ( 96 ). It is important to have a high index of suspicion with these symptoms as definitive diagnosis based on imaging alone is unreliable and diagnostic laparoscopy should be considered ( 97 ). It is also worth noting that studies have found that up to 10% of individuals report chronic abdominal pain following RYGB which can be difficult to treat and may impact negatively on quality of life ( 98 , 99 ). One of the primary concerns in the long-term for patients undergoing SG is the possibility of developing de novo reflux or the worsening of pre-existing symptoms which can be difficult to treat ( 100 ). A RCT with 5 year follow-up demonstrated that 16% of patients following SG developed de novo reflux vs 4% undergoing RYGB ( 46 ). The SM-BOSS study also found a reflux remission rate of 60.4% compared to 25.0% following SG ( 101 ). In patients with severe reflux following SG, conversion to RYGB has been found to be effective in improving or treating symptoms ( 102 ). Given the concerns regarding the long-term risk of reflux and the development of Barrett’s esophagus, IFSO has issued guidance to recommend surveillance endoscopy one year postoperatively and then every 2-3 years thereafter ( 39 ). Although there is more limited long-term data for patients undergoing OAGB, studies have shown that up to 41% of
