Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


year postoperatively and then every 2-3 years thereafter ( 39 ). Although there is more limited long-term data for patients undergoing OAGB, studies have shown that up to 41% of patients at 5 years reported gastro-esophageal reflux compared to 18% of those undergoing RYGB ( 103 ). Given the anatomical configuration, bile acid reflux and esophagitis has also been found endoscopically and although the long-term implications are unknown, it does raise concerns regarding future cancer risk ( 104 ). Considering the nature of bariatric surgery, a commitment to long-term follow up, particularly focusing on nutritional supplementation and monitoring, is an essential element in the decision to proceed with an operation. However, the specific requirements are largely procedure specific and determined by the anatomical changes involved. Although relatively rarely performed DS is noteworthy not only for the weight loss and improvement in metabolic dysfunction it can result in relatively high-risk nutritional deficiencies compared to other procedures. Weight Loss Outcomes The ability to produce not only profound weight loss but weight loss which is sustained in the long term is essential to the success of bariatric as a treatment for obesity, which is recognized as a chronic and progressive disease. As such, the importance of studies can in some ways be categorized according to the length of their follow-up period when considering their clinical relevance or impact although clearly the soundness of the overall methodology is the primary determinant. Short-term studies (1 - 3 years) are plentiful but simply suggest potential effectiveness. Medium term studies (3 -10 years) are far fewer but are more assuring of real effectiveness. There is also now mounting longer term data emerging which further adds to the more than 25-year follow up of the landmark Swedish Obese Subjects (SOS) study. SHORT AND MEDIUM-TERM OUTCOMES In recent years, there have been a number of RCTs with 5-year follow up periods which have emerged comparing weight loss between different procedures. The SM-BOSS study was a multi-center RCT comparing SG to RYGB with a primary end point comparing weight loss ( 101 ). At 5 years, the study did not show a statistically significant difference in excess BMI loss with -61.1% seen following SG compared to -68.3% following RYGB. Similarly, the SLEEVEPASS study also sought to compare SG to RYGB with the primary end point of weight loss measured as % excess weight loss (EWL) ( 105 ). The %EWL
