Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


the SLEEVEPASS study also sought to compare SG to RYGB with the primary end point of weight loss measured as % excess weight loss (EWL) ( 105 ). The %EWL at 5 years was 49% after SG and 57% following RYGB, however, this difference was not statistically significant. The individual participant data of both studies were merged with the results supporting a greater percentage BMI loss and resolution of hypertension with RYGB compared to SG but no difference in T2DM remission or quality of life at 5 years ( 106 ). While none of the published data at present clearly supports the superiority of one procedure over another, there are two ongoing RCTs, ByBandSleeve and Bypass Sleeve Equipoise Trial (BEST) which may change this ( 107 , 108 ). LONG-TERM (>10 YEAR) OUTCOMES The prospective Swedish Obese Subjects (SOS) study was a key step in establishing the effect of bariatric surgery in people with obesity compared to usual care and now has more than 25 years of follow-up data. Follow-up data which was measured at 2, 10, 15, and 20 years demonstrated -23%, -17%, -16% and -18% mean changes in body weight in the surgery group compared to between 1% and -1% in the standard care group at these same time points ( 6 ). It is worth noting that this study included several procedures such as gastric banding and vertical banded gastroplasty which are no longer commonly performed. Looking specifically at RYGB, there is mounting data to support the long-term weight loss produced by the procedure. A prospective study looking at 1156 participants undergoing RYGB over a 12 year follow up period found a -26.9% mean percent weight loss ( 45 ). The mean percent weight loss at 6 years was similar at -28% suggesting that weight remained relatively stable after the initial period of weight loss in the first year. These results were similar to a retrospective cohort analysis of 10-year weight loss outcomes following RYGB which showed a mean weight change of -28.6% ( 109 ). Data looking at >10-year outcomes for SG is more limited, however, the 10-year observational follow up study of the SLEEVEPASS study showed a mean excess weight loss (EWL) of 43.5% ( 110 ). Similarly, high quality studies evaluating the >10-year weight loss outcomes are limited for OAGB given the relative recent adoption of the procedure. However, a retrospective single-center analysis of
