Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


110 ). Similarly, high quality studies evaluating the >10-year weight loss outcomes are limited for OAGB given the relative recent adoption of the procedure. However, a retrospective single-center analysis of 385 participants showed a mean % total weight loss (TWL) of 33.4% ( 111 ). Although infrequently performed due to the high complication and reoperation rate, BPD/DS remains the procedure which produces the most substantial weight loss with studies showing a 10 year TWL of 40.7% ( 50 ). Overall, it would appear that the effect of bariatric surgery, irrespective of the procedure performed, is a period of rapid weight loss followed by prolonged weight stability which is essential to improving long-term morbidity and mortality. Type 2 Diabetes and Bariatric Surgery Type 2 diabetes and obesity are inherently linked diseases and improvements in glycemic control has become one of the earliest indicators that surgical modification of the gastrointestinal tract could result in profound metabolic changes and indeed could help modify the underlying disease process. Early studies looking at jejuno-ileal bypass demonstrated a rapid normalization of blood glucose in the early postoperative period, prior to any weight loss, which first raised the possibility that these operations could produce changes in a weight loss independent manner. The 1995 observational study which showed a normalization of glycemia in more than 600 people with obesity and T2DM undergoing RYGB was one of the first to create widespread interest in the possibility of employing surgery as a treatment for T2DM ( 112 ). Having recognized this effect, the metabolic effects of bariatric surgery and its implications for T2DM have become one of the main focuses of research. RCTs comparing bariatric surgery to medical management alone have consistently demonstrated that it is more effective in improving glycemia and cardiovascular risk factors, irrespective of the procedure performed. As such, it is now endorsed by governing bodies world-wide as a central element of the treatment algorithm for people with T2DM and obesity ( 113 ). The STAMPEDE trial was a RCT comparing the use of bariatric surgery, either SG or RYGB in conjunction to intensive medical therapy (IMT) compared to IMT alone ( 8 ). Over a 5 year follow up period, only 5% of the participants in the IMT group reached an HbA1c of <6% vs 23% undergoing SG and 29% following RYGB. A further study involving three arms compared RYGB to BPD and medication. Over a
