Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


the IMT group reached an HbA1c of <6% vs 23% undergoing SG and 29% following RYGB. A further study involving three arms compared RYGB to BPD and medication. Over a ten year follow up period, T2DM remission rates were 25% for RYGB, 50% for BPD, and 5.5% for those treated with medication, however, that includes one participant who crossed over from the medical therapy group to surgery ( 7 ). Although the study showed that the remission rates decreased in both surgical groups between the 5 and 10-year follow up period and was lower particularly within the RYGB group, even in those who did relapse, glycemic control remained very good (HbA1c<7% or <53mmol/mol). The ARMSS-T2DM study a pooled analysis of four RCTs is currently the largest analysis with the longest follow up comparing bariatric surgery with medical treatment/lifestyle modification for T2DM ( 114 ). At 12 years, the between group difference in HbA1c levels was -1.1% with none of the patients in the medical group in remission compared to 12.7% in remission in the bariatric surgery group. The patients in the bariatric surgery group were also using fewer anti-diabetes medications. REMISSION RATES IN RCTs As of April 2024, there were 12 randomized controlled trials which irrespective of the type of surgery have consistently demonstrated the greater improvements in glycemic control and disease remission with bariatric surgery compared to medical therapy ( 8 , 10 - 16 , 18 , 115 - 117 ) All studies have compared one or more bariatric procedures with a group having non-surgical treatment (NST). The difficulty in drawing firm conclusions is in part due to the studies not being directly comparable due to extensive heterogeneity, including different criteria for patient selection, treatment durations, and the use of various definitions of remission of diabetes, particularly the cut-off values for HbA1c. Nevertheless, they serve to provide key comparisons with NST, the current offering to more than 99% of people with diabetes. The first of the studies was performed the Centre for Obesity Research and Education (CORE) in Melbourne ( 115 ). 60 patients were randomized to LAGB or NST. They were required to have a BMI between 30-40kg/m 2 and to have been known to have T2DM duration < 2 years. At 2-year follow up, 73% of patients were in remission (defined as a HbA1c < 6.2%) following LAGB vs 13% in the NST group. The STAMPEDE
