Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


at 2 years to 37% at 5 years and 25% at 10 years ( 7 ). The effects of SG were examined in the STAMPEDE study which showed a reduction in remission rates from 37% to 24% between years 1-3 and 15% at 5 years ( 8 ). The initial remission rates as well as long-term remission have been demonstrated to be highest following BPD with 63% in remission at 5 years and 50% at 10 years ( 7 ). MACROVASCULAR AND MICROVASCULAR COMPLICATIONS The durability of remission and the reduction of complications has been demonstrated at a fifteen year follow up in the SOS study, a prospective matched cohort study ( 120 ). They reported that the remission rate for the surgical group, predominantly gastroplasty, at two years was 72% and at 15 years was 31%. This remission rate, though reduced with time, was significantly better than the 6.5% in the control group, indicating an important long-term benefit. Furthermore, and arguably more important than the remission rate, they found the number macrovascular and microvascular complications of diabetes were fewer at 15 years in the surgical group than in the controls. OTHER HEALTH OUTCOMES AFTER BARIATRIC SURGERY Cancer Obesity has been demonstrated to not only be a risk factor for the development of certain types of cancer but may also increase the risk of mortality associated with cancer. The SOS study was the first interventional trial which demonstrated a decreased incidence of cancer, amongst patients undergoing bariatric surgery compared to matched controls ( 121 ). Since then, there has been increased recognition of the possibility that weight loss mediated by bariatric surgery may reduce both the incidence of cancers as well as improving long term outcomes. A subsequent matched cohort study, the SPLENDID study demonstrated reduced cumulative incidence of mortality related to 13 types of cancer in patients undergoing bariatric surgery compared to the non-surgical group with an adjusted HR of 0.52 ( 122 ). Further studies examining the effect of bariatric surgery specifically on the incidence of non-hormonal cancers demonstrated a nearly 50% reduction in patients undergoing bariatric surgery compared to matched controls ( 123 ). Cardiovascular Disease Obesity is one of the most important modifiable risk factors in the prevention of cardiovascular disease. However, until the publication of several critical studies, what was not clear was whether or not weight loss achieved through surgical means could modify individual
