Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


the prevention of cardiovascular disease. However, until the publication of several critical studies, what was not clear was whether or not weight loss achieved through surgical means could modify individual cardiovascular risk factors and produce a resultant improvement in mortality. There are now more than 30 observational studies which have examined primary prevention of cardiovascular disease, demonstrating reduced morbidity and mortality in patients with obesity undergoing surgery compared to usual care. The SOS study which has more than 30 years of follow up data has demonstrated the long-term benefits of bariatric surgery on reducing cardiovascular risk, demonstrating a 30% reduction in death from cardiovascular disease ( 6 ). One of the largest observational studies to date including nearly 14,000 patients found a 62% reduction in new onset heart failure, 31% reduction in myocardial infarction rates, 33% reduction in stroke, and a 22% reduction in atrial fibrillation ( 124 ). Liver The term metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is a broad categorization of a spectrum of liver diseases ranging from hepatic steatosis to metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH, which can progress to cirrhosis and end-stage liver disease. MASLD is now the most common cause of chronic liver disease globally; however, its implications have up until recently been largely underappreciated due to the fact that many patients are asymptomatic. In patients with obesity, the incidence of disease is far higher, and the entire spectrum of disease is seen, with up to 80% having steatosis, 37% MASH, 23% fibrosis, and 5.8% cirrhosis ( 125 ). The majority of patients with MASLD are asymptomatic and a significant proportion will also be biochemically normal; thus, a diagnosis of MASLD can only be made on the basis of imaging studies. It is difficult to monitor the progression of MASLD, particularly in those with normal liver enzymes; however, one-third of patients with early-stage MASH will progress to fibrosis within five to ten years of diagnosis ( 126 ). Given the growing number of individuals affected by obesity and MASLD, it is anticipated that MASH will become the leading indication for liver transplantation ( 127 ). An increasing body of evidence supports the consideration of MASH and fibrosis as a significant obesity-related complication and recommend its inclusion as an indication for bariatric/metabolic surgery, given their potential reversibility with substantial weight loss mediated by surgery. A meta-analysis of 21 studies, including over 2000 patients undergoing bariatric/metabolic procedures, found a
