Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


an indication for bariatric/metabolic surgery, given their potential reversibility with substantial weight loss mediated by surgery. A meta-analysis of 21 studies, including over 2000 patients undergoing bariatric/metabolic procedures, found a resolution of steatosis or steatohepatitis and biochemical normalization in most patients ( 128 ). The critical finding was that in those with severe disease and established fibrosis there was a reversal of these changes in 30% of patients. Dyslipidemia of Obesity Increased fasting triglyceride and decreased high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol concentrations characterize the dyslipidemia of obesity and insulin resistance ( 129 ). This dyslipidemia pattern is highly atherogenic and a common pattern associated with coronary artery disease ( 130 ). Bariatric surgery produces substantial decreases in fasting triglyceride levels, a normalization of HDL, and an improved total cholesterol–to–HDL-cholesterol ratio ( 131 - 133 ). Although elevation of total cholesterol is not purely obesity-driven, evidence would support that procedures such as OAGB and RYGB ( 134 ) can produce significant improvements in total cholesterol levels( 135 ). Hypertension There is evidence of a reduction in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure (BP) following weight loss in association with bariatric surgery ( 136 ). The GATEWAY study examined the long-term effects of bariatric surgery on hypertension (HTN) control and remission. The RCT involved 100 participants comparing 5-year outcomes in people with HTN on medical therapy alone vs RYBG and medical therapy. RYBG was associated with HTN remission in 46.9% of participants compared to 2.4% of those in the medical therapy group. The number of medications required to maintain BP<140/90mmHg was reduced by 80.7% following RYGB ( 137 ). Asthma There is a positive relationship between asthma and obesity with a possible dose-response effect ( 138 , 139 ). The Nurses' Health study identified a five-fold increase in the relative risk of asthma with a weight gain of 25kg from age 18 when compared to a weight stable group ( 140 ). In patients with obesity, outcomes from asthma are worse with more patients with poor control despite maximal therapy, more frequent exacerbations, and poorer quality of life ( 141 ). Given the link between sustained weight loss and improvements in asthma, there has been significant interest in the possible role of surgery in the management of patients with obesity and asthma. A systematic review of studies involving SG, LAGB, RYGB and BPD described a consistent improvement in pulmonary function tests following bariatric surgery
