Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


the management of patients with obesity and asthma. A systematic review of studies involving SG, LAGB, RYGB and BPD described a consistent improvement in pulmonary function tests following bariatric surgery as well as quality of life ( 142 ). Obstructive Sleep Apnea Obstructive sleep apnea is characterized by recurrent episodes of upper airway obstruction and hypoxia during sleep due to abnormal airway collapsibility. Excess weight is the strongest independent risk factor in the development of obstructive sleep apnea, with a 10% change in body weight associated with a 30% worsening in the apnea-hypopnea index (AHI), one of the primary indexes for measuring severity ( 143 ). A systematic review of 69 studies found that irrespective of the procedure performed, bariatric surgery resulted in a significant improvement in most patients. These findings were supported by a further meta-analysis which found 83.6% of patients reporting resolution or improvement of symptoms ( 144 ). Although there is evidence demonstrating significant improvements with regard to the AHI, it is essential to note that despite this, most patients following treatment remain within the moderate to severe range. Bariatric surgery should not be undertaken with the goal of cure in mind, but rather to control or reduce disease severity. IMPROVEMENT IN QUALITY OF LIFE (QOL) Several studies clearly demonstrate major QOL improvements following bariatric procedures ( 145 - 149 ). A large prospective study of QOL after bariatric surgery employed the Medical Outcomes Trust Short Form-36 (SF-36). The SF-36 is a reliable, broadly used instrument that has been validated in people living with obesity. In this study, 459 participants with complex obesity were found to have lower scores compared with a control population for all 8 aspects of QOL measured, particularly the physical health scores. Weight loss provided a dramatic and sustained improvement in all measures of the SF-36. Improvement was greater in those with more preoperative disability; however, the extent of weight loss was not a good predictor of improved QOL. Even for patients who required revisional surgery during the follow-up period, they found a similar improvement in measures of QOL. Similar improvements in QOL have been demonstrated in patients having LAGB for previously failed gastric stapling ( 150 ). IMPROVEMENT IN SURVIVAL The ultimate test of effectiveness of a treatment is the reduction of mortality. There is a growing body of evidence on long-term mortality of people who have undergone bariatric surgery compared to
