Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


test of effectiveness of a treatment is the reduction of mortality. There is a growing body of evidence on long-term mortality of people who have undergone bariatric surgery compared to people with obesity who have not had surgery which shows improved survival. The SOS study demonstrated that over a median follow up period of 24 years that there was a lower risk of mortality in the people who had undergone surgery compared to the matched controls which resulted in a median increase in life expectancy by 2.4 years ( 6 ). The risk of death from both cardiovascular risk but also cancer was lower in the patients who had undergone surgery. In spite of these improvements, the group of patients who had undergone surgery still had an 8-year shorter life expectancy relative to the general population with the leading cause of death being cardiovascular disease. A systematic review and meta-analysis of 16 matched cohort studies and one prospective controlled trial found that there is a median improvement in life expectancy of 6.1 years in patients who had undergone bariatric surgery compared to usual care. Although both participants with and without T2DM demonstrated an increased overall survival, the treatment effect was considerably larger for those with T2DM with an increased life expectancy of 9.3 years compared to the non-surgical group. The number needed to treat to prevent one additional death in 10 years was 8.4 for people with T2DM compared to 29.8 for those without ( 151 ). FUTURE DIRECTIONS COMBINING MEDICATIONS WITH SURGERY There has long been a focus on comparing outcomes for the treatments of obesity and related diseases, particularly T2DM looking at the use of either surgery or medical therapy. Although studies have consistently demonstrated the efficacy of surgery in achieving long-term reductions in weight and improvements in diabetes, it is clear from our understanding of the disease process itself that obesity is a chronic and progressive disease which will over time require treatment intensification. Looking to the management of other diseases, including cancer, surgery is often viewed as a means of establishing disease control with adjunctive medical therapies to sustain this effect in the long-term ( 152 , 153 ). The concept of utilizing medication with bariatric surgery has been demonstrated to be both safe and effective as demonstrated by the STAMPEDE trial in which both RYGB and SG were combined with IMT. Impressive advances in pharmacotherapy
