Surgical Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, obesity, gastric, loss, weight loss, bariatric surgery, bypass, rygb, patients, study, years, diabetes


surgery has been demonstrated to be both safe and effective as demonstrated by the STAMPEDE trial in which both RYGB and SG were combined with IMT. Impressive advances in pharmacotherapy initially developed as anti-diabetes medications but equally recognized for its efficacy in producing weight loss in people without diabetes has made the potential for employing multi-modal care even more promising, improving long term disease control and remission. WHO SHOULD BE CONSIDERED FOR BARIATRIC SURGERY? For many years, the criteria for bariatric surgery were largely based on the National Institutes of Health (NIH) guidelines issued more than 30 years ago in 1991 ( 154 ). These guidelines were highly constrained by BMI cut offs and based on surgical outcomes from the era of open surgery. Having recognized the significant advances in surgery, safety outcomes as well as our greater understanding of the disease process, related disease, and mechanisms of action of surgery, IFSO and ASMBS jointly released updated guidelines in 2022 ( 1 ). Major changes to the previous guidelines include: Metabolic and bariatric surgery (MBS) is recommended for individuals with BMI>35kg/m 2 regardless of the presence of obesity related disease. MBS should be considered for individuals with a BMI 30-34.9kg/m 2 with metabolic disease. BMI thresholds should be adjusted in the Asian population such that a BMI>25kg/m 2 suggests clinical obesity and individuals with a BMI>27.5kg/m 2 are offered MBS. Appropriately selected children and adolescents should be considered for MBS. NEEDS AND CHALLENGES Bariatric surgery should be viewed as a process of care that begins with a careful initial clinical evaluation and detailed patient education, continuing beyond the operative procedure through a permanent follow-up. The increasing number of safe and effective bariatric procedures should be seen as part of a growing number of treatments for obesity which may need to be combined in a stepwise and progressive approach to achieve long-term disease control. Improving care for people with obesity undergoing bariatric surgery is an evolving process as our understanding of the disease itself and its implications for people living with obesity deepens. Future areas which remain to be improved include. A better understanding of the mechanisms of action of each procedure is required to enable optimum surgery and follow up. Accurate and comprehensive data management. Bariatric surgical procedures should be incorporated into national clinical registries to enable objective assessment of the risks and benefits across the community. More randomized controlled
