BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


BJS Open, 2025, zraf034 Review Article Liver transplantation as a treatment for cancer: comprehensive review Bobby V. M. Dasari1,2,* , Pal-Dag Line3 , Gonzalo Sapisochin4 , Taizo Hibi5 , Prashant Bhangui6 , Karim J. Halazun7, Shishir Shetty2,8, Tahir Shah8, Christian T. J. Magyar9, Conor Donnelly7and Dev Chatterjee10 (Delhi NCR), India (e-mails: ; ; ) Abstract Background: Liver transplantation for cancer indications has gained momentum in recent years. This review is intended to optimize the care setting of liver transplant candidates by highlighting current indications, technical aspects and barriers with available solutions to facilitate the guidance of available strategies for healthcare professionals in specialized centres. Methods: A review of the most recent relevant literature was conducted for all the cancer indications of liver transplantation including colorectal cancer liver metastases, hilar cholangiocarcinoma, intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, neuroendocrine tumours, hepatocellular carcinoma and hepatic epitheloid haemangioendothelioma. metastases, various preoperative protocols for cholangiocarcinoma patients, standard, extended selection criteria for hepatocellular carcinoma and neuroendocrine tumours, are discussed. Innovative approaches to deal with organ shortages, including machine-perfused deceased grafts, living donor liver transplantation and RAPID procedures, are also explored. evolve further with improved prognostication of tumour biology using adjuncts such as radiomics, cancer genomics, and circulating DNA and RNA status. International prospective registry-based studies could overcome the limitations of smaller patient cohorts and lack of level 1 evidence. Introduction choice for certain liver cancers, it is essential to elucidate its use in the transplant setting and its balance with Transplant oncology is the treatment of cancer through immunosuppression. transplant medicine and surgery1–5. It encompasses four pillars: • the evolution of multidisciplinary cancer care mainly utilizes transplantation to treat cancers; The principles of surgical oncology, resectability, operability, • exploration of genomic mechanisms. Organ transplantation transplantability and curability are needed to perpetuate the offers a unique opportunity for cancer material to be conceptual evolution of transplant oncology. The definition of genomically analysed, which is not available in other resectability is assigned to liver tumours that can be resected disciplines of medicine; based on the assessment of tumour-related and surgery-related • extension of the traditional margins of surgical oncology. In factors. Its definition remains ambiguous, not always objective transplantation, we utilize surgical techniques unique to and is confined to surgical expertise and judgement. For this field, which can be used to achieve R0 resection in example, portal vein embolization, associating liver partition, patients with hepatobiliary malignancies; and portal vein embolization for staged
