BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


The study cohort, following more stringent transplantability refers to the national or institutional criteria inclusion criteria, resulted in Oslo scores of 02, and the for transplant listing, relying on risk parameters for waitlist estimated 1-, 3- and 5-year OS was 100%, 83% and 83% dropout (including but not limited to death or disease respectively18. Median DFS was 53%, 44% and 35% at 1, 2 and 3 progression), post-transplant mortality rate and donor organ years respectively and about 70% of the recurrences observed availability. Overall, these aspects lead to ethical considerations were lung metastases where a majority could be offered regarding organ allocation to candidates who may benefit from resection. The OS after recurrence was 100%, 73% and 73% at 1, prolonged survival yet have a risk of recurrence. In light of 2 and 4 years respectively, indicating the DFS has limitations as organ shortages and neoadjuvant treatment protocols a parameter of treatment efficacy in liver transplantation for potentially requiring time-sensitive planning, living donor liver CRLM. transplantation (LDLT) has gained a pivotal role in transplant As in all transplant oncology indications, patient selection oncology. LDLT, in turn, is associated with considerations remains critical to obtain acceptable outcomes and avoid futile regarding donor safety and the recipient’s needs. use of grafts. The Oslo score alone is insufficient to suggest Transplant benefit is defined as the gain offered by liver transplant candidacy; instead, a range of other negative transplantation (LT) compared with the best alternative therapy predictive factors should be avoided19. CRLM in patients with (survival after LT minus survival with the best alternative right-sided primary tumours are associated with worse treatment). The International Liver Transplantation Society outcomes after chemotherapy, liver resection and liver (ILTS) Consensus guidelines on Transplant Oncology transplantation20–22, and BRAF mutation and undifferentiated emphasized that transplant benefit should be one of the key or signet ring cell differentiation are similarly associated parameters to be considered when defining optimal selection with inferior prognosis23. Examination with fluorine-18- criteria for LT. fluorodeoxyglucose (F-FDG) PET/CT is commonly used to rule All of these characteristics are to be driven by disease- and out extrahepatic disease. A metabolic tumour volume (MTV) on patient-related factors. This contemporary comprehensive pretransplant PET/CT <70 cm3 is highly predictive of good review is intended to optimize the care setting of LT candidates survival outcomes after liver transplantation for CRLM and by highlighting current indications, technical aspects and should be a routine
