BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


review is intended to optimize the care setting of LT candidates survival outcomes after liver transplantation for CRLM and by highlighting current indications, technical aspects and should be a routine part of the selection strategy24–27. available strategies for healthcare professionals in specialized liver transplantation + chemotherapy to chemotherapy alone in centres. patients with unresectable CRLM28. The study population had a high tumour load with a median of 20 metastases in both groups, and the delay from diagnosis to randomization was 15.9 Tumour-specific sections months in the transplant arm. All transplanted patients but one Colorectal cancer liver metastases had a low Oslo-score (<2). After a median follow-up of 59.3 Almost 50% of patients with colorectal cancer will develop months, the 5-year intention-to-treat survival in the LT cohort metastatic disease, and the liver is the most often involved was 56.6% in the transplant group compared with 12.6% in organ. Liver resection remains the only potential curative the chemotherapy group. In per-protocol analysis, the treatment option for colorectal liver metastasis (CRLM). The corresponding 5-year survival rates were 73.3% and 9.3%. The rates of resectability have improved over time with the outcomes of the TRANSMET trial confirm the principal findings introduction of efficient chemotherapy for downstaging and from all the previous clinical trials on LT for CRLM and have the augmentation techniques like portal vein embolization (PVE) transplant oncology indication that is supported by level 1 or Associating Liver Partition and Portal vein Ligation for evidence. Staged hepatectomy (ALPPS)13,14. Nevertheless, for 75–80% of An increasing number of centres worldwide have started the patients with CRLM, the only treatment option remains adopting LT for unresectable CRLM. Due to the scarcity of donor palliative chemotherapy, with a 5-year overall survival rate of grafts in most countries and regions, many programmes have about 10%15. applied LDLT to be able to provide transplants to patients with The first controlled ‘proof of concept’ SEcondary CAncer CRLM, and the outcomes have largely been in line with other (SECA-I) trial to explore LT in non-resectable CRLM was published results29,30. Systematic implementation of LDLT has, published in 2013 and found an estimated overall survival (OS) however, mostly been done in Asia, whereas the number of of 95%, 68% and 60% at 1, 3 and 5 years respectively16. However, Western centres performing LDLT is limited. Split liver disease-free survival (DFS) was only 35% at 1 year. Still, most transplantation may offer a meaningful
