BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


3 and 5 years respectively16. However, Western centres performing LDLT is limited. Split liver disease-free survival (DFS) was only 35% at 1 year. Still, most transplantation may offer a meaningful expansion of the donor recurrences were slow-growing lung metastases that could be pool, but the number of extra grafts obtained may be restricted offered curative intent resection, thereby yielding a favourable by allocation policies in regions where MELD priority is used for Dasari et al. | 3 prioritization on the waiting list. In 2015, the RAPID concept 3 cm in size and/or the patient has a malignant appearing (Resection And Partial Liver Segment 2/3 Transplantation With stricture with a CA19-9 > 100 U/ml, and they must not have had Delayed Total Hepatectomy) was introduced as a possible a previous surgical exploration or a direct percutaneous/ method to provide liver transplantation for more patients with transperitoneal biopsy. The diagnosis in and of itself is often CRLM31. The RAPID procedure entails an auxiliary segment 2 + 3 challenging to establish due to the unreliability or lack of transplantation after a left hepatectomy. After reperfusion, the sensitivity of brush cytology and biliary aspirates44. The portal flow is diverted to the graft under portal pressure diagnostic accuracy of cytologic brushings can be augmented guidance to induce fast liver generation. Graft size is monitored with the addition of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) to weekly, and the second-stage hepatectomy can usually be detect aneuploidy45. Often, however, multiple attempts at performed 2–3 weeks post-transplant. A multicentre study proving the diagnosis are made, causing delays in the among seven European centres has demonstrated that the commencement of therapies, and the presence of a mass in the RAPID procedure may be applied with adequate safety, good hilum causing biliary obstruction with atypical cells on cytology functional liver regeneration and second-stage hepatectomy can be sufficient (institutionally) to allow for inclusion into the after a median of 2 weeks32. Moreover, RAPID can be applied protocol and commencement of neoadjuvant therapies. First, both as a split liver technique in the deceased donor setting as however, extrahepatic disease must be excluded—and hilar well as with the use of living liver donors33,34. The latter is cholangiocarcinoma commonly metastasizes to regional lymph particularly attractive, since it possibly allows for a reduction in nodes, which should be sampled before inclusion. Routine living donor risk whilst simultaneously offering a substantial endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)-guided biopsy of nodes
