BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


since it possibly allows for a reduction in nodes, which should be sampled before inclusion. Routine living donor risk whilst simultaneously offering a substantial endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)-guided biopsy of nodes should be treatment benefit for the CRLM recipient according to the performed before the commencement of chemoradiation to double equipoise principle35. Since patients with CRLM usually confirm the absence of metastases. Metastases to nodes and to may tolerate lower graft size than conventional liver transplant United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS) adopted the inclusion recipients with chronic liver disease. Thus, using smaller grafts, and exclusion criteria based on the Mayo protocol; these criteria including living donor grafts, is a possible way to expand the are summarized in Table 1. donor pool and accommodate the increased need for liver grafts that liver transplantation for CRLM is likely to require in the Neoadjuvant protocols future36. Neoadjuvant protocols have transformed the landscape of liver transplantation for hCCA, where complete surgical resection is Hilar cholangiocarcinoma often challenging. The rationale behind this regimen is to downstage tumours, enhance the probability of complete Liver transplantation for unresectable hilar cholangiocarcinoma tumour eradication and limit recurrence post-transplantation46. (hCCA) is not a new concept. In fact, the first transplant for this disease was performed by Thomas Starzl in 196337. A total of Additionally, new agent therapy provides a biologic test, as more aggressive behaving tumours that progress despite treatment eight patients with Klatskin tumours were transplanted by likely would not benefit from transplantation47. The original Starzl’s group up until the mid-1980s, five of whom survived chemoradiation Mayo protocol involved the delivery of more than 2 months. Of those, 4 of 5 (80%) recurred and high-dose external beam radiation (EBRT) in combination with succumbed to their tumours; the single patient who did not recur died at the 2-month mark38. Similar to other early experiences 5-FU for radio-sensitization as daily boluses for 3 weeks, followed by transcatheter radiation into the bile duct, followed with the transplantation of patients with malignancies, the by maintenance capecitabine until transplantation43,48. abysmal outcomes observed in these initial series and experiences Centre-level variation in the dosage of radiation and the with transplantation of hilar cholangiocarcinoma resulted in the modality (SBRT versus EBRT) in which it is applied exist, with near abandonment of the use of liver transplant as a potential cure for this disease38–41. These poor outcomes can be attributed many centres avoiding brachytherapy and few altogether
