BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


exist, with near abandonment of the use of liver transplant as a potential cure for this disease38–41. These poor outcomes can be attributed many centres avoiding brachytherapy and few altogether omitting radiation49,50. Chemotherapeutic regimens also vary, to poor patient selection and a lack of availability or adherence to strict chemotherapeutic protocols before transplantation. The Mayo protocol came into existence in 200042, and presented a Table 1 Inclusion and exclusion criteria for hilar group of patients who underwent chemoradiation using a cholangiocarcinoma protocol that involved combined 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) with radiation. The results showed a median survival of 44 months Inclusion criteria Exclusion criteria and a single recurrence among 11 patients transplanted42. In Unresectable hilar tumour mass Percutaneous or transperitoneal 2004, Heimbach et al. published a follow-up on the original Mayo ≤3 cm biopsy of tumour study that included 28 patients with hilar cholangiocarcinoma Malignant stricture with one of: Previous attempt at resection of the who underwent liver transplantation with an 82% 5-year OS and a tumour (open cholecystectomy 14.2% recurrence rate43. These excellent results propelled liver • CA19-9 > 100 U/ml without alone excluded) transplantation for hCCA through the establishment of the Mayo cholangitis • Cytology/biopsy determining protocol. malignancy, or • Aneuploidy/polyploidy by Patient selection Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization (FISH) The Mayo protocol has formed the basis of patient selection for Negative nodes by EUS before Intrahepatic or extrahepatic unresectable hCCA since their updated results were published in chemoradiation metastases or positive nodes on 2006. Briefly, in order to qualify for a liver transplant, patients EUS Negative nodes on laparotomy/ must have an unresectable tumour diagnosis which is laparoscopy before transplant established through brush cytology, the tumour must be under 4 | BJS Open, 2025, Vol. 9, No. 3 with some using gemcitabine instead of capecitabine, often the deceased donor iliac artery to form an aortic conduit in addition to cisplatin, based on the ABC-02 study50,51. (supra-celiac or infrarenal)56. However, conduits are avoided Maintenance capecitabine is then usually given for maintenance during LDLT due to the risks of using third-party grafts. chemotherapy during the transplant waiting interval, but some Although vascular complications are generally higher with programmes report the use of gemcitabine with or without LDLT, recent studies show acceptable risks postneoadjuvant cisplatin47,52. radiation57. For DDLT, selecting a high-quality graft capable of Contrary to hepatocellular carcinoma, immunotherapy in tolerating longer cold ischaemia times is key, along with cholangiocarcinoma has been utilized
