BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


postneoadjuvant cisplatin47,52. radiation57. For DDLT, selecting a high-quality graft capable of Contrary to hepatocellular carcinoma, immunotherapy in tolerating longer cold ischaemia times is key, along with cholangiocarcinoma has been utilized only in unresectable procuring suitable venous and arterial conduits for potential diseases, although studies have shown promising results reconstruction. The recent rise in the use of machine perfusion, for its use in systemic therapy and chemotherapeutic agents. which mitigates cold ischaemic time issues, will likely allow the In 2022, Oh et al. noted that durvalumab (PDL-1 antibody) utilization of more marginal grafts in the DDLT setting for plus gemcitabine-cisplatin significantly improved survival hCCA. Similarly, the radiation effect on the portal vein and the compared with gemcitabine-cisplatin plus placebo in bile duct can cause significant scarring; however, the portal vein advanced biliary tract cancer53. An RCT in 2023 showed anastomosis is usually done in a standard fashion, with a improved OS for patients receiving pembrolizumab in Roux-en-Y performed for biliary reconstruction in all cases. combination with gemcitabine-cisplatin compared with Post-transplant management gemcitabine-cisplatin alone for patients with advanced biliary tract cancer54. While this has not become standard practice, Post-transplant care for patients undergoing liver transplantation since none of these patients will be able to get immunotherapy for hCCA follows standard protocols but requires heightened after transplant due to the risk of rejection and severe vigilance for technical complications, particularly due to the complications resulting from immunosuppression, it seems frequent need for vascular reconstructions. Vascular reasonable to include immunotherapy in the neoadjuvant complications are a significant concern in hCCA transplant protocols for hilar cholangiocarcinoma. recipients. Early reports from the Mayo Clinic cited vascular complication rates as high as 40%, with some graft losses due to Surgical protocol delayed hepatic artery thrombosis58. However, more recent Before undergoing transplantation, patients must undergo a studies indicate a lower rate of major vascular complications, complete sampling of the lymph nodes in the hilum of the liver closer to 20%, and fewer graft losses. A multicentre study from and around the porta hepatis, specifically the common hepatic high-volume transplant centres reported a 90-day mortality rate artery lymph nodes along the bile duct, and the portal vein of less than 5% in benchmark cases, comparable to or better than nodes must be sampled. This can be performed through outcomes for other liver transplant indications59. Daily Doppler laparoscopic or robotic techniques, which minimize the amount ultrasound surveillance is recommended for
