BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


nodes must be sampled. This can be performed through outcomes for other liver transplant indications59. Daily Doppler laparoscopic or robotic techniques, which minimize the amount ultrasound surveillance is recommended for the first 3 to 7 days of adhesions during the liver transplant procedure itself. Any post-transplant47. Although therapeutic anticoagulation is not positive nodes would preclude the patient from transplantation. usually necessary, postoperative prophylactic anticoagulation Approximately 28% of patients with non-primary sclerosing and aspirin should be considered, especially in cases with arterial cholangitis (PSC)-related hilar cholangiocarcinoma are found to reconstructions. Drain placement should be monitored for biliary have positive nodes or metastatic disease at the time of the leaks and potential pancreatic injury from challenging portal staging operation55. The timing of the staging laparoscopy varies dissections before removal47. Immunosuppression typically from centre to centre, with some choosing to perform the includes standard regimens (tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil surgery immediately after the completion of neoadjuvant and prednisone taper), as alternative mTOR inhibitor-based therapy or closer to the time of transplantation, and the regimens (for example everolimus) have not shown definitive availability of a living donor often influences the choice. benefit in hCCA. Performing the staging operation shortly after completing There is no clear evidence supporting the benefit of adjuvant neoadjuvant radiation provides more comprehensive chemotherapy post-transplantation, as studies, such as a European information that allows precise listing decisions and mitigates trial on adjuvant gemcitabine, have been inconclusive due to poor the effects of radiation for easier dissection of the porta hepatis tolerance and lack of accrual60. Thus, chemotherapy is typically when there are fewer effects of radiation and cleaner planes. reserved for patients with recurrence or those with concerning Postponing the staging operation until closer to the transplant explant pathology. Surveillance should follow protocols similar to date accounts for additional waiting time and a further those after hCCA resection, with contrast-enhanced cross-sectional assessment of the ‘test of time’ as it allows for the detection of imaging (magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed metastatic disease that may have developed while waiting and, tomography (CT)) of the abdomen and serum CA19-9 every 3 to 4 as outlined by Sonnendy47, avoids the small risk of delays in months for the first 3 years, then every 6 months for a total of listing due to complications from the staging procedure and reduces 5 years. Annual chest CT is also recommended. While PET-CT is the chance of scar
