BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


months for a total of listing due to complications from the staging procedure and reduces 5 years. Annual chest CT is also recommended. While PET-CT is the chance of scar tissue and adhesions from the initial procedure not routinely used, it may be added if there are suspicious findings complicating the portal dissection during transplantation47. There is or a rise in CA19-947. no data to suggest, however, that the timing of the staging operation Patient outcomes impacts the outcome. The debate between LDLT and deceased donor liver transplant It is difficult to assess the survival benefit of transplantation (DDLT) for hCCA revolves around access and surgical complexity. compared with alternative therapies, as the patients enrolled in LDLT provides a guaranteed, quicker path to transplant. However, these trials are a highly selected population. For example, the shorter vessels requiring vascular anastomoses to previously 65%57, with some studies reporting 5-year survival rates as high radiated vessels for inflow. Avoidance of irradiated arteries in as 76% in highly selected populations61. Intent-to-treat protocols the DDLT setting is overcome by using vascular conduits from have shown lower survival, around 40–45%, suggesting high Dasari et al. | 5 levels of dropout in these patients due to progression or occult In non-cirrhotic patients with advanced iCCA, disease stability metastatic disease47. In a meta-analysis of studies comparing with neoadjuvant treatment is considered a selection criterion for survival in these patients, the dropout ranged from 25.9% to transplantability by some advocates70. Special considerations are 86.1%, with a 0% to 66.7% dropout of those who commenced given to patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis73. Guidelines chemoradiation therapy. In 41% of patients who discontinued such as the EASL-ILCA and AASLD guidelines for managing CCA therapy, dropout was related to disease progression—typically include transplant as an option for treatment management occurring at the time of the staging operation62. within trials74,75. For those who have undergone transplantation, the median A meta-analysis including studies up to May 2020 identified the time to recurrence is around 2 years, with some recurrences pooled 5-year OS after LT as 42% (95% c.i. 29.0–55.0)76. Compared occurring as late as 4 to 5 years post-transplant63. Risk factors with non-transplant outcomes, good outcomes are reported in for recurrence include perineural or vascular invasion, high stage-stratified very early iCCA and advanced iCCA (5-year OS tumour grade and nodal disease on explant, with twice the risk 71% versus 48%)76. The combination of LT
