BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


vascular invasion, high stage-stratified very early iCCA and advanced iCCA (5-year OS tumour grade and nodal disease on explant, with twice the risk 71% versus 48%)76. The combination of LT with neoadjuvant of recurrence in those with positive distal biliary margins treatment protocols has resulted in excellent results (5-year OS following hepatectomy45. Recipients with PSC who underwent ranging up to 83.3%)77,78. The cumulative incidence of waitlist transplantation had half the risk of recurrence compared with those dropout at 12 months for cholangiocarcinoma patients is with de novo hCCA64. reported as 23.9% (95% c.i. 20.0–29.0)79. An initial comparison of resection to transplantation showed a Whilst the gemcitabine-cisplatin-based neoadjuvant trial has significant survival advantage in those undergoing transplantation proven effective77, neoadjuvant protocols assessing immune (5-year survival 82% versus 21%)48. Directly comparing the two checkpoint inhibitors (the first-line treatment option for groups is challenging for multiple reasons. In the aforementioned advanced iCCA) are yet to be established. Currently, there is no study, patients with PSC and inflammatory bowel disease were consensus regarding the definition of transplant criteria in the were selected based on only those who had completed Transplant Center group reported radiological disease stability neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy48. This comparison was for 6 months under the neoadjuvant systemic therapy as a reassessed in 2015, where a survival benefit was seen in selection criterion for transplantation based on tumour biology patients with Bismuth–Corlette (B–C) IV but not B–C III disease in this setting78. in just those with de novo hCCA65. Importantly, cohorts Alternation from the standard of care for LT in the context of including patients with PSC typically see a higher survival neoadjuvant treatment may vary on institutional and trial following transplantation, likely related to earlier diagnosis protocols. These may include a diagnostic laparoscopy to and more favourable tumour biology61. Highly selected visually rule out peritoneal carcinomatosis and thorough portal patients with hCCA clearly have a benefit with liver lymph node dissection to rule out lymph node metastasis. As transplantation, but determining the population that benefits LDLT is a commonly employed transplantation of choice, the is a complex problem. laparoscopy should be planned approximately 1 week before LT Liver transplantation offers excellent outcomes in highly to allow for adequate histopathological examination (NCT selected patients with unresectable hilar cholangiocarcinoma. 04195503)80. include neoadjuvant chemoradiation. Patients with PSC have a Transplant Center proposed an imaging and biochemical more favourable outcome than those with de novo hCCA, and
