BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


with unresectable hilar cholangiocarcinoma. 04195503)80. include neoadjuvant chemoradiation. Patients with PSC have a Transplant Center proposed an imaging and biochemical more favourable outcome than those with de novo hCCA, and follow-up every 3 months within the first 2 years, followed by 6 liver transplantation is the treatment of choice in such patients monthly intervals up to 5 years and thereafter annual if they develop hCCA. follow-ups78. More recently, tissue and liquid biopsy (blood or bile) assessments for phenotyping and potential follow-up protocols have emerged81–83. Current molecular alterations of interest are Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma FGFR2, IDH 1/2, NRG1, BRAF and BRCA. Incorporating liquid Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA) accounts for less than biopsy in treatment protocols is pivotal in allowing personalized 10% of primary liver cancer66, with an incidence of 1.3 per 100 medicine approaches for patients with iCCA in transplant oncology. 000 per year in Western countries. In Europe, 56% of all cholangiocarcinomas are iCCA67. The 2019 World Health Neuroendocrine tumours Organization (WHO) classified iCCA into small-duct type and Neuroendocrine tumours (NETs) are rare cancers with a low large-duct type68. Intrahepatic CCA can arise in both cirrhotic incidence of only 0.5% of all malignancies84,85. However, the and non-cirrhotic patients and can occur as single or multifocal majority of patients present with or develop liver metastases lesions. The predominant pattern of growth is mass forming in during their lifetime, and these are often bilobar in distribution. 93%, with positive regional lymph nodes in 50% and distant Treatment options for neuroendocrine liver metastases (NELM) metastasis (predominantly lung, peritoneum or distant lymph are variable, with most patients needing multimodal options of nodes) in 24% of patients at the time of diagnosis67. The OS for medical management with somatostatin inhibitors, surgical all patients with iCCA is poor, with a 5-year OS of 14% and a resection, systemic treatments, loco-regional options such as median OS of 13 months respectively69. ablation and targeted treatment with radionuclide therapy. For iCCA, LT may be an option when the tumour is confined to Surgical clearance of NELMs, even if it were to be debulking the liver70. The two main indications for LT are: very early (≤2 cm) surgery, is accepted to prolong the survival and resolution of iCCA71in cirrhotic patients who are not resection candidates (that hormonal symptoms, especially in patients with functional is end-stage liver disease, portal hypertension); and locally NETs. Despite this, there is a subgroup of patients where the
