BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


not resection candidates (that hormonal symptoms, especially in patients with functional is end-stage liver disease, portal hypertension); and locally NETs. Despite this, there is a subgroup of patients where the advanced (large or multiple with no macrovascular invasion, diffuse nature of intrahepatic metastases does not allow and no evidence of extrahepatic disease (cN0 cM0) iCCA that adequate debulking of liver lesions, and LT has been proposed renders the disease not-resectable70,72. as a curative option in such a situation. 6 | BJS Open, 2025, Vol. 9, No. 3 Given the rare incidence and slow disease progression, Hepatocellular cancer high-quality data comparing the various treatment options is Despite notable advancements in the management of patients non-existent, and most of the evidence for surgical with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with respect to diagnosis, management of NELM is either from a retrospective registry or prognostication, treatment modalities available and from single centres. Five-year survival rates from the European posttreatment surveillance, there are yet unmet needs as registry ranged from 47 to 70%, and cancer recurrence rates regards the best curative treatment options in these patients to between 31.3 and 56.8%86. The European Liver Transplant achieve long-term, recurrence-free survival. This is, of course, in Registry-based multicentre retrospective data showed a addition to the significant problem of late detection of HCC at an significantly better 5-year survival at 59% among patients advanced stage in most patients despite having screening transplanted after 2000 compared with 46% who underwent LT protocols. Thus, achieving optimal outcomes in patients with before 2000. Better results in the latter data are due to a HCC is still challenging. improved patient selection with better understanding of poor It is known that close to 90% of HCCs occur in a diseased or prognostic factors that include presence of extrahepatic disease, cirrhotic liver; the aetiology of the underlying liver disease could resection of primary at the time of transplantation21,42,87,88, be hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, hepatitis B virus (HBV) vascular or nodal involvement89. infection, ethanol, metabolic associated steatotic liver disease The Milan Group in 2016 published outstanding 5-year and (MASLD) or others94. Unlike the other cancers managed in 10-year OS of 97 and 89% respectively, with liver transplantation transplant oncology, the root cause of the development of HCC for NELM90,91. Milan NET-LT criteria are, therefore, generally is the tumourigenic microenvironment provided by the cirrhotic accepted as a standard in most programmes. These include liver. In addition,
