BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


LR (P < 0.001). The median disease-free interval between liver surgery and The Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) staging and treatment recurrence was longer in the transplant cohort compared to criteria have been used in most parts of the world over the last resection cohort (78 versus 24 months, P < 0.001). Transplant three decades, with several modifications made to these criteria patients showed a tendency for multisite recurrence, while in the intervening interval95–99. For HCC in the very early stage resected patients for intrahepatic recurrence. This study might (single ≤2 cm), ablation is the treatment of choice and suggest that any patient with disease presentation meeting the radiofrequency or microwave ablation is known to achieve Milan criteria may achieve a significant survival advantage with results similar to liver resection (LR) or LT. In tumours in the LT. A propensity score-matched study of resection versus early stage according to the BCLC classification (single, or up to transplantation for the patients within the Milan criteria 3 nodules ≤3 cm, in patients with preserved liver function), demonstrated superior survival and disease control in the LT resection or ablation may be offered to those with no clinically group with 88.8% 10-year OS and 13.1% disease progression significant portal hypertension (CSPH) or those in whom LT is compared with 22.4 and 89% respectively, in the resection group. contraindicated. LT offers the best curative option in this group Challenges to transplantation for in NELMs include the of patients especially those within the conventional criteria for continued debate about the selection of patients and the LT (Milan criteria)100 or the expanded and validated University potential to expand the option to those patients with functional of California San Francisco (UCSF) criteria101. symptoms, higher tumour load and older patient cohorts. The One of the key questions in this group of patients is the most recent ENETS guidelines state that liver transplantation ‘is proposed role of initial resection followed by LT in case of an option in highly selected, preferably young patients, with recurrence, the so-called salvage LT strategy102. However, series functional syndromes, demonstrating early resistance to have shown that salvage LT is not an ideal strategy in these medical therapy’93. The role of 177lutetium-labelled peptide patients, since only 33% of patients who recur can actually have receptor radiotherapy as a competitor to transplnatation option a curative LT on an intention-to-treat basis103. Hence, upfront and also in neoadjuvant settings
