BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


33% of patients who recur can actually have receptor radiotherapy as a competitor to transplnatation option a curative LT on an intention-to-treat basis103. Hence, upfront and also in neoadjuvant settings will be of particular interest. LT would be associated with best results in patients with early With the availability of new and effective therapies, a HCC104. The other question is whether one modality fits the prospective trial would be ideal for defining the role of entire spectrum of very early and early patients with HCC. In transplantation in NET patients. patients with a single tumour up to 3 cm in size, published Dasari et al. | 7 evidence shows that resection could offer results similar to LT, modalities for DS include TACE, TARE and focused radiotherapy. and superior to ablation. However, in multiple tumours and In fact, successful downstaging is a surrogate marker for tumours between 3 and 5 cm in size, LT is probably the best favourable tumour biology as indicated by a decrease in tumour curative option104. If contraindicated or not feasible, in tumours number and size as per RECIST criteria, serum AFP or PIVKA-II up to 3 cm, a single ablation with radiofrequency or microwave levels, loss of 18F-FDG PET CT avidity123. ablation or transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) may be Biological criteria have been adopted by several centres and indicated. However, in tumours 3–5 cm in size, results with a societies worldwide to demonstrate survival outcomes combination of TACE and microwave ablation (MWA) are better comparable to Milan/UCSF criteria. One such criterion classifies than using a single modality. This has been elaborated on in the patients into low-, moderate- and high-risk groups and decides Indian National Association for Study of Liver (INASL)-modified on upfront LDLT versus DS and then LDLT versus avoiding BCLC classification where the early BCLC stage (Stage A) has been transplant respectively, based on morphological and biological divided into Stages A1 and A2 and the treatment modality prognostic markers121. There is a need for a comprehensive proposed accordingly105. Having said this, by far, the best results in HCC-LT score able to offer a fair chance of justified patients with early-stage HCC are obtained with liver transplantation to more patients with cirrhosis and HCC122. It transplantation, and if feasible, transplantation should be offered was this exemplary work worldwide, across centres, that to these patients. brought about a major change in the BCLC Staging in its 2022
