BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


and if feasible, transplantation should be offered was this exemplary work worldwide, across centres, that to these patients. brought about a major change in the BCLC Staging in its 2022 update99. For the first time, LT found a place in the treatment of The true dilemma: intermediate stage HCC (BCLC B) patients with intermediate-stage HCC. The guidelines now Before the 2022 update of the BCLC staging system, patients with recommend LT in a select group of patients with HCC with BCLC intermediate-stage HCC were relegated to receive non-curative Stage B tumours based on extended criteria which incorporate hepatologist or transplant surgeon to see a cirrhotic patient migration (TSM) has been introduced in these guidelines, presenting with early HCC where multiple treatment options are allowing for personalized treatment decisions based on clinical available and feasible. Most present as multifocal and/or large judgement when first-line treatment is not feasible due to tumours. The MASLD epidemic has further added to the late patient characteristics. These updates emphasize the presentation, with large and biologically aggressive tumours106. importance of individualized treatment approaches tailored to These large and multifocal tumours, without extrahepatic each patient’s specific needs. The INASL-BCLC staging algorithm disease or macrovascular invasion, could be considered locally similarly differentiates between diffuse infiltrative bilobar advanced HCC. The pertinent question is whether some form of disease and well differentiated nodules with the preserved curative treatment can be offered to these patients. portal flow to decide on TARE versus TACE/TARE ± SBRT or Over the years, significant progress has been made in the systemic therapy in non-transplantable patients104. prognostication of patients with HCC. The conventional criteria Vitale et al. demonstrated that the highest survival benefit of LT for LT (Milan and UCSF) based on size and number alone were is, in fact, in patients with HCC who have advanced liver cirrhosis found to be very restrictive. Patients with tumours beyond and no extrahepatic disease (BCLC stage B, C) because there are these transplant criteria were found to have similar OS, no other effective alternative therapies for these patients124. recurrence-free survival (RFS) and DFS if they were well selected Expanding criteria beyond Milan/UCSF (the conventional criteria) based on tumour biology, and underwent LT. Some of the is indeed at the cost of 10–15% lower long-term survival, but the proposed expanded criteria are detailed in Table 2 (DDLT)107–114 survival is significantly better in well selected cases compared and Table 3(LDLT)115–121.
