BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


the cost of 10–15% lower long-term survival, but the proposed expanded criteria are detailed in Table 2 (DDLT)107–114 survival is significantly better in well selected cases compared and Table 3(LDLT)115–121. In the DDLT setting, large series (31 to with ablation or systemic therapy alone. In addition, several 1556 patients) with expanded selection criteria for LT have centres with extensive experience in LDLT have shown the reported acceptable long-term OS and DFS in patients with benefit of a timely LDLT in well selected patients with HCC based tumours up to 7.5 cm maximum diameter and up to three in on tumour biology and response to neoadjuvant or downstaging number. The greatest push for expanding criteria has indeed therapy. In our study, the transplant benefit at 5 years (as against come from the Asian countries where timely DDLT is not as local ablation with TACE or TARE) in patients who were classified feasible as it is in the West. If patients were to keep waiting for an as low risk for recurrence (based on a competing-risks regression organ, there is a high possibility that the patients with HCC would model) was 42 months; it was 25 months even in those who were lose the chance to be transplanted due to the long waiting times. classified as high risk for recurrence121. The main impetus in the selection criteria has been the absence HCC in a cirrhotic liver with tumoural portal vein of extrahepatic disease and gross vascular invasion and not so thrombosis much on tumour size and number as in the conventional criteria. The key is the use of tumour biology in the prediction of It is an unfortunate fact that despite the surveillance programmes outcomes and, hence, in the selection of patients for transplant. in place for high-risk cirrhotic patients, a significant proportion The biological selection criteria incorporate tumour markers like (10–40%) present with advanced stage HCC (with portal vein alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), protein induced by vitamin-K absence-II tumour thrombosis; PVTT) at the time of diagnosis; (PIVKA) II (both as absolute value and a delta change), response non-resectable, and non-transplantable according to the to downstaging with loco-regional therapies, FDG-18 and conventional criteria99,125–127. According to the BCLC algorithm, Fibroblast activation protein inhibitor (FAPI)-PET avidity, waiting systemic therapy is proposed in these patients. If untreated, or interval (as a test of time), inflammatory markers (such as in the case of palliative treatment alone, the outcome
