BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


vascular invasion, irrespective of beyond RFS at 5 years competing-risk RFS model to decide on tumour size/number Milan upfront LDLT versus downstaging fetoprotein; DFS, disease-free survival; LDLT, living donor liver transplantation; DGCP, des-gamma carboxyprothrombin. of the fallacies is presenting pooled data of these patients together PVTT (first- and second-order portal venous branches), and with those patients who have distant metastases and those with low levels of AFP, low FDG-18 avidity on PET scan extrahepatic spread (EHD)131–133. and small tumour sizes134,135. The results of LT have also been There have been published studies that have shown that shown to be superior to resection in this context. Hence, PVTT upfront LDLT yields better survival compared with palliative or in patients with HCC could be considered essentially a systemic therapy alone, especially in patients with segmental contiguous spread and thus a locally advanced tumour for an Dasari et al. | 9 interval of time before manifesting as a distant spread in a metastases145. Another study from the USA looked at >300 haematogenous fashion, and it may be pertinent to consider LT patients identified in the National Cancer Database who were in a selected cohort of patients where the tumour biology is treated for HEHE between 2004 and 2018 after the WWTR1– deemed favourable. It is, however, apt to note that the grade of CAMTA1 or YAP1–TFE3 gene fusion was discovered146. The PVTT is important, and the results of LT may not be similar in 5-year post-LT overall survival rate (n = 35) was 62%, which was patients with segmental versus lobar or main PV tumour significantly better than the rates associated with any other thrombosis136,137. modalities including non-surgical treatment, ablation or hepatic been reported using downstaging the tumour (especially insurance, Deyo–Charlson Co-morbidity Index and tumour size ensuring that the PVTT is treated) using local ablation like (hazard ratio (HR) 0.61; 95% confidence interval (c.i.) 0.38–0.97). TARE, SBRT and TACE, in combination with systemic therapy, The authors proposed a treatment algorithm and recommended and then going ahead with transplant once within institutional that LT is preferred for patients with multifocal and multilobar criteria138. disease or patients at high risk of positive margins if treated It is true that the amount and quality of available evidence is with hepatic resections. Of note, living-donor LT for HEHE has limited, and it seems still too early to recommend LT in all also been reported147–149. patients with HCC
