BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


are likely to replace conventional disease should be offered to patients ‘after full disclosure of the morphological criteria for defining transplant feasibility. potential benefits and the risks’ associated with LT (level V evidence, Grade A recommendation). Hepatic epithelioid haemangioendothelioma History of tumour rupture was considered a major Liver transplantation for unresectable hepatic epithelioid contraindication to LT. Several systemic treatments have been haemangioendothelioma (HEHE), is rarely performed. Five-year reported to be effective in further improving LT outcomes for survival rates of 50–80% were reported from the USA and HEHE. Early reports have shown promising results with Europe, even in those patients with lymph node/extrahepatic neoadjuvant treatment with sirolimus (mammalian target of metastases and macrovascular invasion139–141. Traditionally, rapamycin) before LT and some reports confirmed the role of HEHE diagnosis is difficult because of its disease rarity and systemic therapy for recurrence following LT using tyrosine kinase similar microscopic appearance to other vascular malignancies; inhibitors such as lenvatinib have also been described152. Further however, the diagnostic accuracy has greatly improved after the large-scale studies are essential to establish standardized LT identification of two oncogenes, WW domain-containing criteria for unresectable HEHE and implement individualized transcription regulator 1 (WWTR1)–calmodulin binding multidisciplinary treatment to improve post-LT outcomes. transcription activator 1 (CAMTA1) or Yes-associated protein 1 Effect of post-transplant immunosuppression on disease (YAP1)–transcription factor E3 (TFE3) gene fusions that are found only in patients with HEHE142,143. recurrence (lessons from HCC experience) In the USA, HEHE has become an indication for LT, with There has been significant interest in how immunosuppression exception points from the National Liver Review Board in required post-transplantation potentially has a role in cancer 2017144. A biopsy is mandatory to establish the diagnosis of recurrence and whether specific protocols or regimens could HEHE and exclude haemangiosarcoma. The presence of prevent or delay recurrence, which has been better studied in extrahepatic disease is not an absolute contraindication. A patients who received LT for HCC. retrospective cohort study conducted using a registry database Immunosuppression, required to limit graft failure through from the United Network for Organ Sharing revealed that most immune-mediated rejection, potentially provides an environment HEHE recipients received exception points in the USA between that facilitates tumour development and recurrence. It has been 2002 and 2018, allowing prompt access to deceased donor LT. reported that there are cancers specifically associated with the The unadjusted 5-year post-LT survival rate was 77.2% for 88 immunosuppressed state including
