BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


2018, allowing prompt access to deceased donor LT. reported that there are cancers specifically associated with the The unadjusted 5-year post-LT survival rate was 77.2% for 88 immunosuppressed state including skin cancer, post-transplant patients with HEHE, which did not differ significantly from that lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD), oesophageal carcinoma and of patients with HCC but was superior to that of patients with genitourinary cancers. However, it is not clear cut as some forms cholangiocarcinoma or neuroendocrine tumour liver of immunosuppression, including mTOR inhibitors (mTORi), have 10 | BJS Open, 2025, Vol. 9, No. 3 been shown to disrupt the proliferation and support systems for with HCC recurrence155,156,158. This has been demonstrated by the cancer development and in clinical trials shown to have short- and long-term use of these agents in retrospective cohort favourable results in several cancers, such as mantle cell studies. lymphoma, endometrial carcinoma and renal cell carcinoma. Overall, mTORis are shown to independently improve HCC This immunosuppression class-specific effect has been observed recurrence outcomes and development compared with CNI, in HCC recurrence and will be described in the following section. with the greatest effect in patients with low risk of HCC Calcineurin inhibitors (CNIs), such as cyclosporin and recurrence. However, most studies covering the impact of tacrolimus, have long been used in immunosuppressive regimens immunosuppression on HCC recurrence have been retrospective environment which enables tumour development and growth. For relatively low number of patients on mTOR monotherapy, example, they increase the expression of transforming growth preventing firm recommendations. Further prospective trials are factor-β and vascular endothelial growth factor, both of which are therefore required to clarify the impact of immunosuppression known to promote HCC tumourigenesis153,154. Several studies have in both induction and maintenance phases and their cumulative shown that high CNI exposure is an independent risk factor for HCC effect on HCC recurrence and outcomes, which will help guide recurrence and reduced recurrence-free survival155–157. In these clinical practice to optimize immunosuppressive regimens for studies, high concentrations were defined as cyclosporin trough these at-risk postliver transplant patients. concentration of >300 ng/ml and tacrolimus trough concentration of >10 ng/ml. Further evidence of CNIs alone increasing HCC Organ shortage and use of marginal grafts recurrence risk was shown in a large US retrospective cohort study with CNI monotherapy having a significantly increased risk Organ shortage remains a challenge in most liver transplantation compared with a combined CNI, antimetabolite and steroid programmes worldwide.
