BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


retrospective cohort study with CNI monotherapy having a significantly increased risk Organ shortage remains a challenge in most liver transplantation compared with a combined CNI, antimetabolite and steroid programmes worldwide. Individual centres have reported waitlist immunosuppression regimen158. Furthermore, cumulative dose mortality rates as high as 20%. While the organ donation rates exposure to cyclosporin has been shown to increase HCC remain variable, with an increasing ageing population and recurrence post-transplant and reduce 5-year recurrence-free higher incidence of metabolic co-morbidities such as diabetes survival, particularly when these higher doses are administered in mellitus and obesity, reduced quality of the grafts is the 4–12 month interval post-transplantation156. In contrast, these increasingly encountered. Expanding the indications for liver differences have only been observed in the first month with transplantation for oncology patients could add to the existing patients exposed to high-dose tacrolimus, with no significant demand, and the transplant community will need to continue difference noted after that155,159. The underlying reason for these exploring the options of expanding the donor pool based on the differences between cyclosporin and tacrolimus is unclear and waitlists in their respective programmes. needs further assessment in larger prospective clinical trials. Several attempts have been made to deal with the shortage and In contrast to CNIs, mTORi, including sirolimus and everolimus, match the demand for the grafts, including the usage of donor have antiangiogenic and antineoplastic effects by inhibiting after cardiac death (DCD) grafts and marginal donor after brain the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway and reducing expression of vascular death (DBD) livers. The utilization of DCD grafts in Europe has endothelial growth factor, resulting in reduced carcinogenesis160–162. increased significantly over the years169. Some countries, such immunosuppressive protocols showed statistically significant rest, with well established frameworks and guidelines for DCD improved overall survival and reduced HCC recurrence in those organ procurement and transplantation. receiving sirolimus163–165. This was also observed in studies in DCD grafts are at higher risk of ischmia reperfusion injury, which cyclosporin or tacrolimus was used as the CNI agent, primary non-function, delayed graft function, renal impairment, compared with sirolimus-only immunosuppression therapy109,166. prolonged ICU stay and non-anastomotic biliary strictures It appears to be a potential class effect as similar significant than the DBD grafts170,171. The causation is multifactorial based on differences in HCC recurrence and survival have been observed which the ILTS consensus outlined criteria for ‘ideal’ donors172, with everolimus compared with CNIs167. Furthermore, the including donor age ≤60 years,
