BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


differences in HCC recurrence and survival have been observed which the ILTS consensus outlined criteria for ‘ideal’ donors172, with everolimus compared with CNIs167. Furthermore, the including donor age ≤60 years, donor BMI ≤30 kg/m2, combined sirolimus/CNI regimen had significantly improved macrovesicular steatosis <30% (in the absence of machine recurrence-free survival up to 5 years compared with the CNI-only perfusion utilization) and cold ishemia time (CIT) <8 h. None of regimen, suggesting potential antagonism of the known these factors is exclusive, and careful donor-recipient matching is procarcinogenic effects of CNI in HCC recurrence and antitumour needed to identify the suitable or at-need recipients for the advantage166. Interestingly, in a large retrospective registry-based higher-risk grafts. One important factor that determines the graft cohort study, sirolimus survival benefit was greater in patients function of DCD grafts is the warm ischemic time (WIT), but transplanted for HCC than patients without HCC, suggesting a the definitions and threshold for safe fWIT are variable. ILTS specific benefit for the HCC cohort post-transplant162. In the only consensus guidelines recommend the definitions of total noted up to 5 years post-transplantation, particularly in those functional donor (fDWIT) is the time point when either SpO is with low risk of HCC recurrence, and the greatest recurrence-free <80% or mean arterial pressure is <60 mmHg until cold survival and OS was noted in those patients on sirolimus flush172. A maximum allowable time of 30 min of fDWIT is monotherapy compared with combined immunosuppression recommended by both the ILTS Consensus Conference and the regimens168. UK DCD Risk Assessment173. Acceptable variations to all these Further agents used for immunosuppression in liver criteria have been published. There have been successful transplantation, both for induction, acute rejection and reports of using DCD grafts from donors over 70 years174,175. maintenance, including corticosteroids, antimetabolites (for Similarly, all other factors were also ‘extended’, usually with a example azathioprine), anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies balance between the CIT (<6 h), donor warm ischaemia time (ILR2a) and anti-thymoglobulin (ATG), have not been associated (WIT), recipient MELD scores and steatosis of the allograft176. Dasari et al. | 11 Marginal DBD grafts refer to liver grafts obtained from DBD that NRP livers with standard DBD liver outcomes and found them to are considered higher risk or ‘marginal’ due to various factors that be comparable186. may impact their function post-transplantation. These factors All the perfusion modalities are the future (and present) of liver might include
