BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


risk or ‘marginal’ due to various factors that be comparable186. may impact their function post-transplantation. These factors All the perfusion modalities are the future (and present) of liver might include donor characteristics such as macrosteatosis, transplantation, allowing the use of marginal grafts and increasing prolonged CIT and warm ischaemic times, elevated liver donor graft utilization. Hence, machine perfusion programmes will enzymes at liver offer, donor co-morbidities, cardiovascular undoubtedly facilitate the management of transplant oncology instability and prolonged ICU stay. Marginal DBD grafts are also patients. The influence of machine perfusion modalities on cancer at risk of IRI, DGF and postoperative renal impairment175. recurrence is not fully understood, although early data suggests Together with such risks and also due to ethical concerns, reduced recurrence rates in the HCC cohort using HOPE187. Some decline rates of livers as high as 50% have been reported177. centres have started moving to make transplant surgery a daytime However, advancements in organ preservation and assessment procedure by utilizing the perfusion modalities188. Such flexibility techniques have allowed to revisit these definitions. While no new in the logistics is beneficial in the field of transplant oncology, standardized definitions of marginal grafts exist, the previously where frozen section evaluations are necessary. defined criteria are often overridden when the functional assessment criteria are supportive. Functional assessment of a liver Post-transplant follow-up on normothermic machine perfusion (NMP) allows for evaluating the viability (Birmingham, Cambridge, Groningen criteria) and Post-transplant follow-up protocols should be aimed at detecting function before transplantation and will enable logistics178. early recurrence, especially when they are oligometastases since The VITTAL trial (Viability Testing in Transplants Aimed at they are amenable to directed therapy, which can significantly Extended Life)179was a clinical study focused on exploring the use prolong survival189. Experienced units have shown that with the of normothermic machine perfusion (NMP) to assess the viability use of multimodality treatment, 1-year and 3-year OS of 57 and of livers from DCD, which is typically considered higher risk for 24% respectively, was achieved, with a maximum transplantation. In this prospective, non-randomized, phase 2 postrecurrence survival of 7.5 years among post-LDLT patients trial, viability assessment with NMP allowed transplantation of with HCC recurrence190. It is, therefore, essential to have 71% of discarded livers that were perfused with the intent of stringent follow-up protocols. In resource-constrained health transplantation, with 100% 90-day patient and graft survival180. systems, local protocols can be titred to those at
