BJS Open, 2025, zraf034
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, transplantation, criteria, transplant, survival, tumour, hcc, year, disease, recurrence, treatment, risk, years, resection


that were perfused with the intent of stringent follow-up protocols. In resource-constrained health transplantation, with 100% 90-day patient and graft survival180. systems, local protocols can be titred to those at higher risk of Hypothermic oxygenated perfusion (HOPE) in liver recurrence and for those beyond conventional criteria. One such transplantation allows for improved outcomes in liver example of post-LT follow-up protocol for patients with HCC is a transplantation, particularly with marginal or donation after DCD CT scan (PET-CT if the tumour was initially FDG-18 PET avid) 6 grafts. During HOPE, the liver is perfused at a temperature of 4–10° monthly for 2 years and then yearly, ultrasound of the abdomen C with an oxygenated solution. This process helps to recondition every 3 monthly for 2 years and then 6 monthly, and serum AFP the liver, reduce cellular injury and enhance the removal of and/or PIVKA-II levels 3 monthly for 2 years and then 6 metabolic waste products that accumulate during warm monthly. SIMAP500, RECIST scores risk stratify the need for ischaemia. The cooling slows down the metabolism, reducing the follow-up among patients with HCC, and similar strategies can oxygen demand, while the oxygenated perfusion provides the be applied in the wider transplant oncology programmes191. necessary oxygen to maintain cellular integrity and repair In conclusion, cancer indications for liver transplantation are mechanisms181,182. This reduces the oxidative stress associated here to stay, while the selection criteria among all cancer groups with reperfusion once the liver is implanted. Studies demonstrated are likely to evolve further with improved prognostication of significantly lower rates of early allograft dysfunction and better tumour biology using adjuncts such as radionics, cancer overall graft function post-transplant, with a reduction in biliary genomics, and circulating DNA and RNA status. International complications183. Dual hypothermic oxygenated perfusion prospective registry-based studies could overcome the (D-HOPE) aims to optimize oxygen delivery to the liver cells limitations of small volumes and lack of level 1 evidence. (hepatocytes) and bile ducts (cholangiocytes), potentially reducing the risk of ischaemic injury more effectively than single vessel Funding perfusion by perfusing the liver with oxygenated hypothermic saline both through the hepatic artery and portal vein. A European The authors have no funding to declare. liver transplantation demonstrated a 64% reduction of non- Disclosure anastomotic strictures (NAS), a 57% reduction in postreperfusion syndrome and a 39% reduction in early allograft dysfunction after G.S.: grant support from Bayer®, Roche®; consultant for Novartis®,
