Congestive heart failure overview
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, cardiac, patient, symptoms, disease, ventricular, ace, dose, therapy, associated, edema, congestive heart


to 5 million people in the the United States of America and each year close to 500,000 new cases are diagnosed. Congestive heart failure is responsible for a significant portion of the healthcare budget, and more than 50% of patients seek re-admission within 6 months after treatment and the average duration of hospital stay is 6 days. In 2005 the prevalence among adults aged 20 and older in the United States was 5,300,000 (about 2,650,000 males, and 2,650,000 females). Congestive heart failure is also associated with a poor prognosis. If left untreated, heart failure may result in death due to complications associated with the condition. Heart failure resulting from atherosclerotic coronary artery disease has been shown to be associated with higher incidence of fatal events compared to heart failure that results from other cardiac diseases. Heart failure is a progressive disease with a major impact on the patient's quality of life. With the exception of heart failure caused by reversible conditions, the condition usually worsens with time. Although some people survive many years, progressive disease is associated with an overall annual mortality rate of 10%. In the Framingham experience, 80% of men and 70% of women with heart failure who were under 65 years of age had died within 8 years of the diagnosis. There are several diagnostic criteria / algorithms that are used to diagnose heart failure including an algorithm from the ESC, Framingham study, and Boston. The classic symptoms of heart failure include dyspnea, fatigue, and fluid retention. Patients with heart failure present in different ways. Some patients present with exercise intolerance but show little evidence of congestion or edema. Other patients present with mild symptoms of edema and pulmonary congestion. The ejection fraction is usually below 35% in patients who are symptomatic with systolic heart failure. BNP levels may be useful in the initial establishment of the diagnosis of heart failure in the patient with dyspnea of unclear etiology. Chest x-ray in a patient with heart failure shows cardiomegaly (cardiac enlargement and pulmonary congestion (Kerley B lines, and in some cases pleural effusion). CMR may be used for assessment of LV and RV size and morphology, systolic and diastolic function, and for characterizing myocardial tissue for the purpose of understanding the etiology of LV systolic or diastolic dysfunction. Echocardiography is commonly used to diagnose and monitor the progression of heart failure. This modality uses ultrasound to determine
