Congestive heart failure overview
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, cardiac, patient, symptoms, disease, ventricular, ace, dose, therapy, associated, edema, congestive heart


purpose of understanding the etiology of LV systolic or diastolic dysfunction. Echocardiography is commonly used to diagnose and monitor the progression of heart failure. This modality uses ultrasound to determine the stroke volume (SV, the amount of blood in the heart that exits the ventricles with each beat), the end-diastolic volume (EDV, the total amount of blood at the end of diastole), and the SV divided by the EDV, a value known as the ejection fraction (EF). In pediatrics, the shortening fraction is the preferred measure of systolic function. Coronary angiography is perfomred in patients with heart failure in whom there is a suspicion of underlying atherosclerosis as the basis for the heart failure. Patients who are troponin or CK-MB positive, who have dynamic EKG changes or other signs and symptoms of an acute coronary syndrome who are revascularization candidates should undergo coronary angiography. Acute heart failure can occur in the setting of a new onset heart failure or worsening of an existing chronic heart failure (also known as acute decompensated heart failure, flash pulmonary edema, ADHF). ADHF presents with acute shortness of breath due to the development of pulmonary edema (the rapid accumulation of fluid in the lung). Other signs and symptoms of ADHF include hypotension with impaired and organ perfusion manifested by worsening renal function, altered mentation and cold clammy extremities. ADHF associated with a poor prognosis if not treated aggressively. Like chronic heart failure therapy, the goal is to improve symptoms but unlike chronic therapy the other goals are to improve oxygenation and hemodynamic stability. The mainstays of the acute medical treatment in acute decompensated congestive heart failure include oxygen to improve hypoxia, diuresis to reduce both preload and intravascular volume and vasodilators to reduce afterload. Some of the mainstays of chronic heart failure therapy are not initiated acutely (ACE inhibtors,beta blockers and digoxin). End of life care in the patient with congestive heart failure is focused on making the patient comfortable. Invasive procedures should be minimized, and patients may elect to have their defibrillators inactivated. The growing number of patients with Stage IV heart failure (intractable symptoms of fatigue, shortness of breath or chest pain at rest despite optimal medical therapy) should be considered for palliative care or hospice. Historical Perspective 2/14 Heart failure (HF) is known to be recognized as a disease since ancient times. Italian Egyptologist Ernesto Schiaparelli reported the first case of decompensated
