Congestive heart failure overview
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, cardiac, patient, symptoms, disease, ventricular, ace, dose, therapy, associated, edema, congestive heart


care or hospice. Historical Perspective 2/14 Heart failure (HF) is known to be recognized as a disease since ancient times. Italian Egyptologist Ernesto Schiaparelli reported the first case of decompensated heart failure (HF) in the remains of a tomb in the Valley of the Queens over 3500 years ago the remains are now housed in the Egyptian museum in Turin, Italy. They belonged to an Egyptian dignitary named Nebiri who lived under the reign of the 18th dynasty Pharaoh Thutmose III (1479–24 BC). Various other features of HF such as cardiac hypertrophy and coronary atherosclerosis were also known to Egyptians. In China, ‘the Yellow Emperor’s Classic of Internal Medicine’ described edema as early as 2600 B.C. The medieval Arab scholar Ibn Sina, known to the West as Avicenna (980–1037), had a reputation as an authority on heart disease. His treatise entitled ‘Kitab al-Adviyt-al-Qalbiye’ or ‘The book on drugs for cardiac diseases’ discusses therapies for difficulty in breathing, palpitation, and syncope. Widely used in the West in a Latin translation in the 14th century, the treatise remains in the Galenic tradition of humours. In 1628 when William Harvey clearly described circulation and elucidated hemodynamic abnormalities occurring in HF. Röntgen discovered x-rays in 1895 and allowed a more thorough understanding of maladaptive changes occurring in HF patients.In the 1940s and 1960s the advent of cardiac catheterization and cardiac surgery furthered our understanding of HF. The 1960s was also the decade that saw the emergence of LV assist devices (LVADs), beginning in 1961 when Dennis and co-workers uses a roller pump to assist the left ventricle. From the mid-1970s, the availability of vasodilators provided a means to reduce afterload in order to increase cardiac efficiency and cardiac output in HF Classification Several classification schemes are used to characterize heart failure based on: • The pathophysiology of heart failure (systolic vs diastolic; left vs right; low output vs high output) • The chronicity of heart failure (acute vs chronic) • The severity of heart failure (the NY Heart Association Class) • The stage of congestive heart failure (AHA Class A,B,C,D) • The most recent classification according to the left ventricular ejection fraction; heart failure with reduced ejection fraction(HFrEF) vs heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF)[1] Pathophysiology Heart failure is a complex syndrome whereby there is inadequate output of the heart to meet the metabolic demands of the body. Heart failure is caused by
