Congestive heart failure overview
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, cardiac, patient, symptoms, disease, ventricular, ace, dose, therapy, associated, edema, congestive heart


fraction (HFpEF)[1] Pathophysiology Heart failure is a complex syndrome whereby there is inadequate output of the heart to meet the metabolic demands of the body. Heart failure is caused by abnormal function of different anatomic parts of the heart including the pericardium, the myocardium, the endocardium, the heart valves and the great vessels. Heart failure is characterized by decreased cardiac output but not necessarily decreased ejection fraction. Symptoms of heart failure are due to a lack of both forward blood flow to the body, and backward flow into the lungs. The body tries to compensate for the low cardiac output by mechanisms that increase the preload and afterload. These mechanisms lead to exacerbation of the cardiac malfunction and symptoms associated with heart failure. LV remodeling is the basic concept for HFpEF pathophysiolgy. Two models are emerging in HFpEF pathophysiology, the traditional model discussed about ventricular diastolic dysfunction , LV hypertrophy, impaired relaxation, endothelial dysfunction, arterial and ventricular stiffness and their effect on cardiac function. The emerged model discussed role of systemic microvascular endothelial inflammation due to existing comorbidities such as, diabetes, hypertension, obesity, smoking and ischemia in cardiac remodeling and dysfunction. The pathogenesis of HFrEF is related largely to cellular proliferation and metabolism. Pathological processes that result in progression oCf oHokFie sa hneldp uas rdeel icveorm oumr soernvi cteos. bByo utshin Hg oFurr sEeFrv icaens,d y oHu aFgrpeEe tFo oaurr eu sae lotfe croeokdie es.xcitation-contraction 3/14 coupling, epigenetic modifications, changes in sarcomeric coupling proteins, increased adrenergic drive, increased activity of renin-angiotensin aldosterone axis, nitric oxide insensitivity, adensoine triphosphate (ATP) depletion, reactive oxygen species production and an elevated cell death rate. Causes The causes of heart failure can be broadly divided into cardiac and non-cardiac. Cardiac causes include aortic regurgitation, aortic stenosis, arrhythmias, arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia, arteriovenous fistula, atrial fibrillation, atrial septal defect, cardiac amyloidosis, cardiac aneurysm, congenital heart disease, constrictive pericarditis, dilated cardiomyopathy, Eisenmenger syndrome, endocarditis, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, hypoplastic left heart syndrome, interferon gamma, ischemic heart disease, malignant hypertension, mitral regurgitation, mitral stenosis, myocardial infarction, oxaprozin, patent ductus arteriosus, pericardial effusion, pericardial tamponade, pericarditis, peripartum cardiomyopathy, pertuzumab, restrictive cardiomyopathy, rheumatic carditis, rupture of the papillary muscles, Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, tricuspid insufficiency, valvular heart disease, ventricular aneurysm, ventricular septal defect. Differentiating Heart Failure From Other Diseases Congestive heart failure should be distinguished from other conditions that cause dyspnea, fatigue and edema. Epidemiology and Demographics Heart failure affects close to 5
