Congestive heart failure overview
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, cardiac, patient, symptoms, disease, ventricular, ace, dose, therapy, associated, edema, congestive heart


Differentiating Heart Failure From Other Diseases Congestive heart failure should be distinguished from other conditions that cause dyspnea, fatigue and edema. Epidemiology and Demographics Heart failure affects close to 5 million people in the the United States of America and each year close to 500,000 new cases are diagnosed. Congestive heart failure is responsible for a significant portion of the healthcare budget, and more than 50% of patients seek re-admission within 6 months after treatment and the average duration of hospital stay is 6 days. In 2005 the prevalence among adults aged 20 and older in the United States was 5,300,000 (about 2,650,000 males, and 2,650,000 females). Risk Factors Several risk factors may predispose to heart failure. These risk factors can be demographic, genetic, associated with lifestyle or medications. Screening There is insufficient evidence to recommend routine screening for heart failure. Natural History, Complications And Prognosis Heart failure is associated with significantly reduced physical and mental health, resulting in a markedly decreased quality of life. Congestive heart failure is also associated with a poor prognosis. If left untreated, heart failure may result in death due to complications associated with the condition. Heart failure resulting from atherosclerotic coronary artery disease has been shown to be associated with higher incidence of fatal events compared to heart failure that results from other cardiac diseases. Heart failure is a progressive disease with a major impact on the patient's quality of life. With the exception of heart failure caused by reversible conditions, the condition usually worsens with time. Although some people survive many years, progressive disease is associated 4/14 with an overall annual mortality rate of 10%. In the Framingham experience, 80% of men and 70% of women with heart failure who were under 65 years of age had died within 8 years of the diagnosis. Differential Diagnosis of Causes of Heart Failure Segregated by Left and Right Sided Heart Failure Left Ventricular Failure Most Common Causes: • Aortic regurgitation • Aortic stenosis • Hypertension • Mitral regurgitation • Myocardial ischemia Expanded List of Causes: • Atrial fibrillation • Alcoholism • Anemia • Angina • Aortic regurgitation • Aortic Stenosis • Arteriovenous fistula • Beriberi • Cardiac aneurysm • Cardiomyopathy • Constrictive pericarditis • Drugs, toxins • Hypertension • Hyperthyroidism • Hypovolemia • Hypoxia • Mediastinal tumors • Mitral Regurgitation • Myocardial Infarction • Paget's Disease • Pancoast's Tumor • Pericardial effusion • Pericardial tamponade
