Congestive heart failure overview
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, cardiac, patient, symptoms, disease, ventricular, ace, dose, therapy, associated, edema, congestive heart


toxins • Hypertension • Hyperthyroidism • Hypovolemia • Hypoxia • Mediastinal tumors • Mitral Regurgitation • Myocardial Infarction • Paget's Disease • Pancoast's Tumor • Pericardial effusion • Pericardial tamponade • Perimyocarditis • Protein deficiency • Restrictive cardiomyopathy • Rupture of the papillary muscles 5/14 • Sepsis • Superior vena cava syndrome Right Ventricular Failure Most Common Causes: • Cardiomyopathy • Cor pulmonale • Diffuse myocarditis • Left heart failure Other Causes: • After left ventricular failure • After pulmonary resection • Allergic alveolitis • Bronchial asthma • Chronic bronchitis • Honeycomb lung • Hyperglobulia • Emphysema • Mitral Stenosis • Right ventricular myocardial infarction • Pickwickian Syndrome • Pleural fibrosis • Pneumoconiosis • Pulmonary fibrosis • Pulmonic regurgitation • Pulmonic stenosis • Sarcoidosis • Severe relapsing pulmonary emboli • Silicosis • Tachycardia • Tricuspid insufficiency Others • Ascorbic acid deficiency • Cardiac amyloidosis • Carnitine deficiency • Cervical vein stasis of non-cardiac genesis • Congenital heart disease • Cyanosis of non-cardiac genesis • Diabetes Mellitus • Dyspnea of non-cardiac genesis • Edema ofC noooknie-sc haerlpd uias cde gliveenr oeusri sservices. By using our services, you agree to our use of cookies. 6/14 • Hemochromatosis • Pleural effusion of non-cardiac genesis • Pulmonary edema of non-cardiac genesis • Thiamine deficiency • Thyroid disease Diagnosis Clinical assessment There are several diagnostic criteria / algorithms that are used to diagnose heart failure including an algorithm from the ESC, Framingham study, and Boston. History and symptoms The classic symptoms of heart failure include dyspnea, fatigue, and fluid retention. Patients with heart failure present in different ways. Some patients present with exercise intolerance but show little evidence of congestion or edema. Other patients present with mild symptoms of edema and pulmonary congestion. The ejection fraction is usually below 35% in patients who are symptomatic with systolic heart failure. Physical examination Physical examination is of utmost important in the suspicion, diagnosis and follow up of heart failure. Focus should be targeted mainly on the evaluation of the fluid status, blood pressure and weight changes. Laboratory findings Once the diagnosis of heart failure is made, subsequent laboratory studies should be directed toward the identification of an underlying cause of heart failure. Laboratory tests used for diagnosis and monitor disease activity include renal function tests, thyroid function tests, serum BNP levels and serum CA-125 levels. BNP levels may be useful in the initial establishment of the diagnosis
