Congestive heart failure overview
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, cardiac, patient, symptoms, disease, ventricular, ace, dose, therapy, associated, edema, congestive heart


and monitor disease activity include renal function tests, thyroid function tests, serum BNP levels and serum CA-125 levels. BNP levels may be useful in the initial establishment of the diagnosis of heart failure in the patient with dyspnea of unclear etiology. In a meta-analysis, BNP was superior N-terminal pro-BNP (NTproBNP) and was associated with a sensitivity of 85% and specificity of 84% in the diagnosis of heart failure in the primary care setting. Once the diagnosis of heart failure is made, subsequent laboratory studies should be directed toward the identification of an underlying cause of heart failure. Renal function should be assessed as a rough guide to the patient's intravascular volume status and renal perfusion. A urinalysis is helpful in the assessment of the patient's volume status. Electrolyte assessment and the correction of electrolyte disturbances such as hypokalemia, hyperkalemia and hypomagnesemia is critical in those patients treated with diuretics. Hyponatremia (due to poor stimulation of the baroreceptors and appropriate ADH release and free water retention) is associated with a poor prognosis. Electrocardiogram Although there is no diagnostic criteria of congestive heart failure on the EKG, there may be signs of the underlying cardiac cause(s) of congestive heart failure. The EKG often shows low QRS voltage. Other changes associated with HF include ventricular hypertrophy, atrial enlargement, 7/14 poor R wave progression, left bundle branch block. Chest X-ray Chest x-ray in a patient with heart failure shows cardiomegaly (cardiac enlargement and pulmonary congestion (Kerley B lines, and in some cases pleural effusion) MRI CMR may be used for assessment of LV and RV size and morphology, systolic and diastolic function, and for characterizing myocardial tissue for the purpose of understanding the etiology of LV systolic or diastolic dysfunction. The writing committee recognizes the potential capabilities of spectroscopic techniques for acquiring metabolic information of the heart when evaluating individuals with heart failure. Echocardiography Echocardiography is commonly used to diagnose and monitor the progression of heart failure. This modality uses ultrasound to determine the stroke volume (SV, the amount of blood in the heart that exits the ventricles with each beat), the end-diastolic volume (EDV, the total amount of blood at the end of diastole), and the SV divided by the EDV, a value known as the ejection fraction (EF). In pediatrics, the shortening fraction is the preferred measure of systolic function. Exercise stress test Exercise stress testing with an assessment of oxygen consumption
