Congestive heart failure overview
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, cardiac, patient, symptoms, disease, ventricular, ace, dose, therapy, associated, edema, congestive heart


known as the ejection fraction (EF). In pediatrics, the shortening fraction is the preferred measure of systolic function. Exercise stress test Exercise stress testing with an assessment of oxygen consumption is useful in assessing the functional capacity of the heart failure patient. Angiography can exclude the presence of an ischemic basis for the disease, and cardiac catheterization can evaluate the hemodynamic basis of heart failure and the response to drug. Myocardial viability studies can determine whether hypocontractile myocardium is viable but just hibernating, and could therefore benefit from revascularization. Myocardial viability studies Myocardial viability studies can determine whether hypocontractile myocardium is viable but just hibernating, and could therefore benefit from revascularization. Cardiac catheterization Coronary angiography is perfomred in patients with heart failure in whom there is a suspicion of underlying atherosclerosis as the basis for the heart failure. Patients who are troponin or CK-MB positive, who have dynamic EKG changes or other signs and symptoms of an acute coronary syndrome who are revascularization candidates should undergo coronary angiography. Invasive hemodynamic monitoring 8/14 Based upon the results of the ESCAPE trial, there is no benefit in clinical outcomes associated with the routine use of a pulmonary artery line in patients with decompensated CHF. Treatment Acute Treatment Acute heart failure can occur in the setting of a new onset heart failure or worsening of an existing chronic heart failure (also known as acute decompensated heart failure, flash pulmonary edema, ADHF). ADHF presents with acute shortness of breath due to the development of pulmonary edema (the rapid accumulation of fluid in the lung). Other signs and symptoms of ADHF include hypotension with impaired and organ perfusion manifested by worsening renal function, altered mentation and cold clammy extremities. ADHF associated with a poor prognosis if not treated aggressively. Like chronic heart failure therapy, the goal is to improve symptoms but unlike chronic therapy the other goals are to improve oxygenation and hemodynamic stability. The mainstays of the acute medical treatment in acute decompensated congestive heart failure include oxygen to improve hypoxia, diuresis to reduce both preload and intravascular volume and vasodilators to reduce afterload. Some of the mainstays of chronic heart failure therapy are not initiated acutely (ACE inhibtors,beta blockers and digoxin). General Measures in the Management of Heart Failure • Treat the underlying cause of heart failure such as ischemic heart disease, hypertension, and valvular heart disease. • Treat other non cardiac diseases
