Congestive heart failure overview
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, cardiac, patient, symptoms, disease, ventricular, ace, dose, therapy, associated, edema, congestive heart


in the Management of Heart Failure • Treat the underlying cause of heart failure such as ischemic heart disease, hypertension, and valvular heart disease. • Treat other non cardiac diseases that might contribute to the symptoms of heart failure such as diabetes and hyperthyroidism[2]. • Treat with a low salt diet[3] • Follow the patient's weight to check for fluid overload • Treat with vaccines for influenza and pneumococcus [4][5] Diuresis: First Step in the Management of Heart Failure The treatment of chronic heart failure often begins with the administration of diuretics, particularly if the patient has signs or symptoms of volume overload. While increased left ventricular volume increases contractility to a point, if the heart is filled beyond that point, its contractility diminishes (the patient "falls of the Staring curve"). Diuretics can reduce volume overload and reduce shortness of breath and edema. There are three kinds of diuretics, loop diuretics, thiazides and potassium-sparing diuretics. Diuretics rapidly improve the symptoms of heart failure (within hours to days). Diuretics reduce excess volume that accumulates with heart failure and decrease pulmonary edema that causes symptoms of dyspnea and orthopnea[6]. Lasix 20 to 40 mg PO daily is a conventional starting dose, but in some patients, torsemide may be a better choice due to its more predictable absorption. Once a day dosing of a given diuretic is preferred to twice a day dosing at a lower dose. A rise in BUN and Cr may reflect a reduction in renal perfusion, and further diuresis should only be undertaken with careful monitoring of renal 9/14 function. The patient should weigh themselves each morning at the same time on the same scale, and the diuretic dosing should be adjusted to maintain a constant weight. Given the risk of hypokalemia or hyperkalemia, the blood level of electrolyes should be checked regularly. ACE Inhibition and Angiotensin Receptor Blockade: Second Step in the Management of Heart Failure After diuretics are started or at the same time they are started, an ACE inhibitor can be initiated [7]. This includes a large group of drugs, such as Enalapril (Vasotec/Renitec), Ramipril (Altace/Tritace/Ramace/Ramiwin), Quinapril (Accupril), Perindopril (Coversyl/Aceon), Lisinopril (Lisodur/Lopril/Novatec/Prinivil/Zestril) and Benazepril (Lotensin). They can improve symptoms and prognosis of heart failure in several ways including afterload reduction and favorable ventricular remodeling. Usual side effects include dry cough and angioedema. Patients with bilateral renal artery stenosis or severe renal impairment are not appropriate for
