Congestive heart failure overview
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, cardiac, patient, symptoms, disease, ventricular, ace, dose, therapy, associated, edema, congestive heart


ways including afterload reduction and favorable ventricular remodeling. Usual side effects include dry cough and angioedema. Patients with bilateral renal artery stenosis or severe renal impairment are not appropriate for angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI). During or after the initiation of diuresis, one could start, for example, lisinopril 5 mg Q day. Every 1 - 2 weeks, the dose would be escalated to achieve a target dose of 15 to 20 mg Q day. An ACE inhibitor is initiated before a beta blocker because an ACE inhibitor achieves its hemodynamic effect more rapidly, and is less likely to cause a decline in hemodynamics. Although there is some data to suggest that aspirin blunts the hemodynamic effect of ACE inhibitors, there is no data to suggest that aspirin reduces the clinical efficacy of ACE inhibitors in heart failure patients. Aspirin should be administered to patients with ischemic heart disease, but not to patients without it. If a patient cannot tolerate a an ACE inhibitor (develops a cough), then an Angiotensin II receptor blocker can be administered in its place. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists block the activation of angiotensin II AT1 receptors. Blockade of AT1 receptors directly causes vasodilation, reduces secretion of vasopressin, reduces production and secretion of aldosterone. Because angiotensin II receptor antagonists do not inhibit the breakdown of bradykinin or other kinins, and are thus only rarely associated with the persistent dry cough and/or angioedema that limit ACE inhibitor therapy. Commonly administered agents in the management of heart failure include Candesartan, Valsartan, Telmisartan, Losartan, Irbesartan, and Olmesartan. The effectiveness of switching to an ARB from and ACE inhibitor was demonstrated for candesartan in the CHARM Alternative trial [8]. In general, ARBs are as effective or slightly less effective than ACE inhibitors in the treatment of congestive heart failure.[9][10] It is a class 2a recommendation to substitute an ARB as an alternative to ACE inhibitors if the patient is already taking an ARB for another indication.[11] The efficacy of adding an ARB to an ACE inhibitor was assessed in the CHARM Added trial[12]. While there was a reduction in the composite primary endpoint in the study, there was no reduction in mortality. Furthermore, the VALIANT trial demonstrated that an ARB should not be added to an ACE inhibitor in the post MI setting. These results for ARBs are in contrast to the results of the EMPHASIS HF trial showed that the
