Congestive heart failure overview
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, cardiac, patient, symptoms, disease, ventricular, ace, dose, therapy, associated, edema, congestive heart


not be added to an ACE inhibitor in the post MI setting. These results for ARBs are in contrast to the results of the EMPHASIS HF trial showed that the addition of eplerenone (an aldosterone antagonist) to ACE inhibition improved clinical outcomes including mortality among patients with class II or III heart failure with a reduced LVEF.[13] Thus, based upon the mortality benefit observed in the EMPHASIS HF trial, an aldosterone antagonist rather than and ARB should be 10/14 added to an ACE inhibitor in patients with NYHA class II heart failure and an LVEF < 30%, in the post-MI patient who has an LVEF < 40% who has heart failure symptoms or diabetes, and the patient with class III or IV heart failure who has an LVEF < 35%. "Triple therapy", the combined use of an ACE inhibitor, an ARB and an aldosterone antagonist is a relative contraindication. Beta blockers: Third Step in the Management of Heart Failure Beta blockers reduce the heart rate which lowers the myocardial energy expenditure. They also prolong diastolic filling and lengthen the period of coronary perfusion. Beta blockers can also decrease the toxicity of catecholamines on the myocardium. Once you have achieved a stable dose of a diuretic and an ACE inhibitor, then one of the three beta blockers that have been associated with improved survival (carvedilol, metoprolol succinate or bisoprolol) can be added and the dose titrated based upon the patient's tolerance. You should avoid beta-blockers with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (pindolol or acebutolol). It should be noted that the 35% reduction in one year mortality observed in meta-analyses of beta-blockers in heart failure was when these drugs were added to ACE inhibitors[14]. There are no direct comparisons of the various beta-blockers, but some data does suggest that carvedilol may improve LVEF more than the others, but it may not be as well tolerated due to its vasodilatory properties. If the patient has been over diuresed, they may not tolerate the addition of a beta blocker. Relative contraindications to beta-blocker administration include the following: • Asthma or bronchospasm • Hypotension resulting in poor end organ perfusion or symptoms • Bradycardia or heart block (first degree heart block with a PR interval > 0.24, second degree heart block, third degree heart block • Peripheral arterial disease with limb ischemia at rest • Moderate or greater peripheral edema • Recent intravenous inotropic therapy Given the
