Congestive heart failure overview
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, cardiac, patient, symptoms, disease, ventricular, ace, dose, therapy, associated, edema, congestive heart


prolonged QRS interval > 0.12 • LVEF: A LVEF < 30% to 35% Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI): Coronary artery disease (CAD) and impaired blood flow to the heart is one of the main causes of heart failure. Relieving the blockages in the coronary arteries can improve overall heart function, which may improve or resolve heart failure symptoms. The procedure is usually performed in a cardiac catherization laboratory. A catheter, a very small tube with a tiny deflated balloon on the end, is inserted through an incision in the groin area and then guided over a floppy wire to the section of the diseased artery. The balloon is then inflated to prop open the artery. The balloon is deflated and withdrawn once the artery has been fully opened. A stent may be placed during the procedure to keep the blood vessel open. Clinical trials have demonstrated that percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is a very effective and safe procedure to dilate blocked vessels and can improve a patient's symptoms if ischemia or lack of blood flow is the problem. Left Ventricular Assist Device (LVAD): A left ventricular assist device (LVAD) is a mechanical pump-type device that can help maintain the pumping ability of a failing heart. One type of LVAD has tubing that pulls blood from the left ventricle into a pump. The pump then ejects blood into the aorta. LVADs are typically used for weeks to months as a "bridge" to more definitive therapy such as a heart transplant rather than as a final or "destination" therapy. Intracardiac defibrillator Fifty percent of patients with heart failure die of sudden cardiac death. ICDs are indicated for patients with previous myocardial infarction and an LVEF <30%, sustained ventricular tachycardia, inducible ventricular tachycardia. The morbidity and mortality benefit of ICD placement compared with anti-arrhythmic drug therapy is controversial. Ultrafiltration 13/14 In the setting of congestive heart failure, ultrafiltration has been associated with a reduced incidence of hospitalization compared with diuretics in the UNLOAD trial, but no difference in mortality. Heart Transplantation A Heart transplant may be the only effective treatment option for patients with severe, progressive heart failure that can not be helped by medications, dietary and lifestyle changes. During a heart transplant procedure, the surgeons connect the patient to a heart-lung machine, which takes over the functions of the heart and lungs. Then the surgeons remove the diseased heart and replace it with
