Congestive heart failure overview
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, cardiac, patient, symptoms, disease, ventricular, ace, dose, therapy, associated, edema, congestive heart


the surgeons connect the patient to a heart-lung machine, which takes over the functions of the heart and lungs. Then the surgeons remove the diseased heart and replace it with the donor heart. Finally, the major blood vessels are reconnected and the new heart is ready to work. The outlook for people with heart transplants is good during the first few years after the transplant. Over 85 percent of patients are alive more than a year after their heart transplant. End-of-life considerations End of life care in the patient with congestive heart failure is focused on making the patient comfortable. Invasive procedures should be minimized, and patients may elect to have their defibrillators inactivated. The growing number of patients with Stage IV heart failure (intractable symptoms of fatigue, shortness of breath or chest pain at rest despite optimal medical therapy) should be considered for palliative care or hospice, according to American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guidelines listed below. Some have argued that any patient with NYHA class III CHF should have a palliative care referral. Palliative care can not only provide symptom management, but also assist with advanced care planning, goals of care in the case of a significant decline, and making sure the patient has a medical power of attorney and discussed his or her wishes with this individual. Treatment of special populations There is unfortunately insufficient data in subgroups of patients to mandate a change to guidelines recommendations regarding the management of heart failure. Dosages should be altered as needed in the elderly or in those with altered metabolism. African american patients may respond to the addition of hydralazineand nitrates to the standard of care in the treatment of heart failure.
