Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 December 7; 16(45): 5701-5709
KEYWORDS: solution, preservation, dextran, intestinal, storage, injury, cold, grade, kdal, mucosal, permeability, preservation solution, atp, impermeant, osmotic


with UW solution, isolated and flushed intraluminally organ preservation. One major advancement in preser- with a nutrient-rich preservation solution containing 5% vation solution technology and design was the develop- dextran of varying Mw (73, 276, 534, 1185, 2200 kdal). ment of the “gold standard” preservation solution, the Fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-labeled dextrans to University of Wisconsin (UW) solution. Improvements in a final fluorescence of 10 × 106 fluorescence units/mL organ quality and safe cold ischemic times can be largely were incorporated into the solutions to aid in direct visu- attributed to the control of cellular edema. This was ac- alization of dextran infiltration. Intestines were stored at complished by including cell-impermeant molecules lactobionate, raffinose, and hydroxyethylstarch (HES). 4℃ and samples were taken over a 12 h time-course for subsequent analysis. With respect to the intestine, studies have shown that net fluid shifts contributing to mucosal injury can originate from the vasculature or lumen. Since standard intestinal Surgical procedure and intestinal procurement Male Sprague-Dawley rats (200-250 g) were obtained from procurement involves a common intra-aortic flush of all the University of Alberta and used as organ donors. All experiments were conducted in accordance with Canadian address fluid shifts of a luminal origin. Council on Animal Care policies. Animals were fasted Throughout the last several years, our laboratory has developed a novel nutrient-rich preservation solution overnight and provided water ad libitum. Rats were in- (containing a large amino acid component) tailored to the duced with pentobarbital (65 mg/250 g; IP), followed by specific metabolic requirements of the small intestine; inhalational isoflurane (0.5%-2%) to maintain anesthesia. termed AA solution. Numerous in vitro and in vivo models Following a midline laparotomy, the aorta was exposed have documented superior maintenance of energetics, a infrarenally and at the celiac trunk. The supraceliac aorta reduction in oxidative stress, and a preservation of mu- was clamped and 2-4 mL modified UW solution was cosal morphology and barrier function following intralu- administered via the infrarenal aorta. The vena cava was minal administration of the nutrient-rich solution[8-10]. We transected to facilitate the outflow of blood and perfusate. have demonstrated the benefits of using a high molecular The entire jejunum and ileum was subsequently harvested. weight (Mw) HES (2200 kdal) as an impermeant molecule A nutrient-rich preservation solution (AA solution), de- in our novel solution, with no direct evidence that the veloped in our lab, was used to flush and clear the
