Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 December 7; 16(45): 5701-5709
KEYWORDS: solution, preservation, dextran, intestinal, storage, injury, cold, grade, kdal, mucosal, permeability, preservation solution, atp, impermeant, osmotic


levels at all time-points. At the earlier time-points, 2 and 4 h, (5.3-5.6 µmol/g). Intermediate Mw groups, D3 and D4, fluorescence intensity was greatest in the epithelium or exhibited intermediate ATP levels, both significantly dif- in sloughed epithelial cells. After 12 h storage, there was ferent from D1 and D2 (P < 0.05). ATP progressively significant infiltration into the cryptal regions, the lamina increased to a maximum of 9.6 µmol/g in D5; this group propria, as well as the vascular epithelium. Mucosal injury had significantly greater levels than all other groups (P < was greatest in these groups (D1, D2, D3), ranging from 0.05). Levels of total adenylates (ATP + ADP + AMP) development of subepithelial clefts at 2 h to complete closely resembled those of ATP. Levels in groups D2 and denudation at the later time-points, leaving the underlying D3 were significantly higher than in D1 and D2, P < 0.05. tissue vulnerable to further dextran penetration. Similarly, D5 level was significantly greater than all groups, Interestingly, the intermediate Mw dextran, D4, exhib- P < 0.05. Atkinson described another useful measure ited no extensive penetration of label into the epithelial of tissue energetics, “energy charge” as: EC = (ATP + layer and largely remained within the layer of mucous ADP/2)/total adenylates. In illustrating the significance coating the surface of the villi. Several goblet cells and the of this measurement, Pegg used the analogy of a battery apices of some villi did have a minor amount of fluores- in describing the energy charge as being a measure of the cence. However, by 4 h, there was considerable infiltration “charged up” state of the adenylate pool. As ATP levels of the dextran label throughout the underlying tissue. Lim- decline relative to ADP and AMP levels, energy charge ited mucosal injury was apparent even after 12 h storage, also drops, indicating that less of the total adenylate pool at which time epithelial clefting had developed. Treatment exists in a form that is immediately available for cellular with the highest Mw tested, D5, resulted in no observable work. Energy charge ratios showed similar trends to those infiltration into the epithelium or lamina propria; this was of ATP and total adenylates. Values increased as Mw of evident at all time-points (Figure 1). the dextran increased, starting at 0.45 in D1 and reaching 0.62 in D5; D5 value was significantly different than all Evidence of
