Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 December 7; 16(45): 5701-5709
KEYWORDS: solution, preservation, dextran, intestinal, storage, injury, cold, grade, kdal, mucosal, permeability, preservation solution, atp, impermeant, osmotic


and raffinose; Mw = 358 and 504, respectively). With respect to osmotic support Oxidative stress and the application of an intraluminal preservation solu- No significant differences were detected among groups tion, the Mw permeability limit of the epithelial barrier D1-D5 with respect to the parameter of oxidative stress during ischemic storage has not been clearly defined. (malondialdehyde) after 12 h storage; values varied be- In the realm of organ preservation, osmotic agents are tween 236 and 274 nmol/g protein in all 5 experimental required to counteract the metabolic events that result in groups (data not shown). the influx of water into the cells/tissue. Under normal cir- cumstances, cells have an extracellular environment rich in Na+ and low in K+. The Na+/K+ transporter maintains DISCUSSION the respective gradients of these ions, relying on the use to other starches and albumin, has been for their plasma Na+ an impermeant outside of the cell, creating an os- volume expansion properties. These molecules exert motic force that counteracts the osmotic pressure exerted their osmotic effects by binding water within the vas- by proteins and impermeable anions in the cell interior. culature and creating an osmotic force to extract water Together, these intracellular proteins and impermeable from edematous tissues. The Mw of a molecule required ions require an osmotic force of 110-140 mOsm/kg to WJG|www.wjgnet.com 5706 December 7, 2010|Volume 16|Issue 45| 10.0 9.0 8.0 7.0 6.0 5.0 D1 D2 D3 D4 D5 offset fluid flow into the cell. In ischemic tissue under cold storage, the above situation is quite different. Hy- in an attempt to repair damaged tissue. Depletion of cel- pothermic conditions coupled with aerobic metabolism lular energy reserves (ATP and total adenylates) results collectively work to inhibit Na+/K+ ATPase activity, de- in an inability of the mucosal epithelium to preserve its creasing the cell membrane potential. As a result, Na+ and barrier function, compromising epithelial integrity during Cl- flow down their concentration gradients into the cell, organ storage. The barrier consists of numerous tight and water follows, causing the cell to swell; cells eventu- junctions located toward the apical surface of intestinal ally become damaged and may lyse. Cell impermeant epithelial cells. A number of proteins form the tight molecules are critically important in regulating fluid move- junctions, which are active, energy-consuming structures. ment into the cell; there is a fundamental requirement of The transepithelial flow of both macromolecules and 110-140 mmol/L of
