Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 December 7; 16(45): 5701-5709
KEYWORDS: solution, preservation, dextran, intestinal, storage, injury, cold, grade, kdal, mucosal, permeability, preservation solution, atp, impermeant, osmotic


preservation solution for impermeant support. Inclusion impermeant support. There is no reason to suspect of the appropriate agent capable of acting as a true os- that a macromolecule which is impermeant in the lumen ultimately influence success of the transplant. even at reduced temperatures. As the number of tight Hydrostatic and impermeant forces regulate the move- junctions and the magnitude of the dilatations increase, ment of fluids between intracellular and extracellular com- the potential for infiltration and translocation of large partments. Hydrostatic forces have a predominant role macromolecules and eventually bacteria also increases. As in continuous perfusion methods; whereas, impermeant a consequence of these impermeant characteristics, the forces are the sole contributors governing net fluid flux in lack of osmotic support contributes directly to tissue ede- the setting of static cold storage, the current standard for ma and its negative sequelae. In tissues lacking sufficient most intra-abdominal organs. Shifts in net fluid flow dur- impermeant support during hypothermic storage, edema ing cold storage are proposed to originate from the intesti- becomes a major concern. nal vasculature and/or lumen. In the current study, fluid In the current study, parameters of cellular energetics shifts of vascular origin were controlled by delivering a (ATP, total adenylates and energy charge) consistently standard intra-aortic vascular flush with UW solution to all reflected strong and significant positive correlations with Keeping such fluid shifts constant was essential, allow- the cell is obvious, higher Total Adenylate levels reflect ing us to attribute any inter-group differences of luminal reduced rates of purine catabolism, potentially leading to permeability to the specific dextran size of interest. Based the accumulation of hypoxanthine and the production on the data presented in the current communication, there of uric acid and superoxide (a highly reactive oxygen was a definitive inverse relationship between dextran Mw free radical). A second consequence is that greater and its ability to cross the epithelial barrier during cold amounts of purines are available for ATP regeneration storage. Several relatively large Mw dextrans (73-534 kdal) (once carbon exits the total adenylate pool, reconversion exhibited a definitive pattern of penetration of the muco- is not enzymatically possible in this pathway). These bio- sal layer within 2 h cold storage, eventually infiltrating the chemical parameters of tissue integrity all indicate that submucosa and muscularis propria after 12 h. The only the 2400 kdal dextran was maximally effective in protect- effective dextran fraction tested that
