Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2010 December 7; 16(45): 5701-5709
KEYWORDS: solution, preservation, dextran, intestinal, storage, injury, cold, grade, kdal, mucosal, permeability, preservation solution, atp, impermeant, osmotic


parameters of tissue integrity all indicate that submucosa and muscularis propria after 12 h. The only the 2400 kdal dextran was maximally effective in protect- effective dextran fraction tested that exhibited impermeant ing the mucosa from ischemic insult during cold storage. characteristics by remaining captive within the lumen even In conclusion, the permeability characteristics of the after 12 h cold ischemia was one of Mw = 2400 kdal. This rat small bowel during cold ischemia are very different study is the first to establish the critical permeability limit than those of intestinal tissue that is not limited with re- of the mucosal layer during intestinal preservation and to spect to oxygen and nutrients. In order for a molecule to delineate the requisite Mw of a true osmotic impermeant behave as a true osmotic impermeant, the Mw must be in the lumen. much greater than that established for intravascular pres- The relationship between Mw (size) and permeability ervation solutions. From the data presented in this study, determined in this study was somewhat expected based the size of dextran showing the lowest degree of epithe- on the results from various animal and human intestinal lial or mucosal infiltration, superior morphology and mini- permeability studies. An inverse relationship be- mal disruption to cellular energetics was 2400 kdal. These tween Mw and mucosal-to-serosal permeability has been findings clearly delineate the critical Mw limit that must be established previously for rodents. In a comprehensive addressed in the development of an effective intraluminal report addressing comparative intestinal permeability in preservation solution. pig, rat, and human models, Nejdfors et al found an inverse relationship between the Mw of marker mol- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS ecules and their mucosal permeability across all species, irrespective of location in the gastrointestinal tract. Special thanks to Mr. Jacek Studzinski and Mrs. Geneva The power of such a study comes from the fact that Hurd for excellent technical assistance. identical standardized methods of evaluating molecular permeability and a wide range of Mw were used for each species; this included 14C-mannitol, FITC-dextrans CCOOMMMMEENNTTSS 4.4/70 kdal and several proteinaceous macromolecules Background (α-lactalbumin, 65 kdal and ovalbumin, 45 kdal). An effective osmotic agent is one of the fundamental requirements of organ In an animal study assessing the uptake of FITC- preservation for transplantation. Commonly used preservation solutions that dextran (Mw 70 kdal) by the small intestinal epithelium, are typically administered via an intravascular route utilize low molecular weight
