Zhangetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2020) 20:389
KEYWORDS: striatum, csf, patient, meningitis, blood, abscesses, skin, case, published, multiple, brain, present, count, showed, bacteria


taken before the start of anti- Laboratory tests of blood taken at admission showed a biotic therapy remained negative. The CSF and blood white blood cell (WBC) count of 14.61×109/L with levelsofvancomycinwere notmeasured. 84.5% neutrophils. High-sensitivity C-reactive protein However, head and chest CT with contrast enhance- was256.59mg/Landprocalcitoninwas4.89ng/mL,both ment examinations (unable to complete magnetic reson- farabove normalvalues. Lumbar puncturewasthenper- ance imaging, MRI) showed intracranial and pulmonary formed after excluding contraindications, in especial abnormal lesions, which were considered as abscesses brain shift on computed tomography (CT) plain scan- (Fig. 2). After 9 days from admission, her conditions ning. A lumbar puncture yielded cloudy cerebrospinal were deteriorating rapidly with coma and anisocoria. fluid (CSF) with initial pressure over 400mmH O. CSF Dehydration therapy to decrease intracranial pressure analysis revealed an elevated total nucleated cell count was used immediately and the patient progressed of 1210×106/L (90% multiple nuclear cells), an in- smoothly to complete additional tests. A head CT was creased protein concentration of 1.58g/L (normal value, rearranged promptly and detected that the previous le- 0.01~0.45g/L) and a decreased glucose concentration sion was enlarged questionably. Considering that no def- of 0.39mmol/L (blood glucose 5.44mmol/L). Consider- inite brain shift was shown, we performed the lumbar ing the available information, we empirically made a puncture again to confirm CSF changes on the premise diagnosisofpurulentmeningitisandimmediatelytreated of the patient’s conditions and her family’s full consent. with intravenous vancomycin (1g every 12h) and mero- Wefollowedtheoperatingguidelines toreduceandslow penem (1g every 8h) to cover all common causative mi- thereleaseofCSF.The lumbarpuncturerevealedcloudy croorganisms untilculture resultswereknown. CSF with initial pressure of 350mmH O, an increased After a 24-h incubation period, gram staining of the total nucleated cell count of 536×106/L and protein cloudy CSF demonstrated the presence of gram-positive concentration of 1.40g/L. In the next day, this patient bacteria (Fig. 1). After 72h of treatment, the patient had had respiratory and circulatory failure gradually. In spite a marked improvement in health conditions and labora- of giving cardio-pulmonary resuscitation and mechanical tory tests. She became alert, correct-replied and well- ventilation, this patient eventually died. As far as avail- cooperated. In the meantime, her headache gradually able information was concerned, we speculated that the relieved. Blood WBC count, high-sensitivity C-reactive intracranial abscess ruptured and formed cerebral her- protein and procalcitonin were all decreased. Total nu- nia. In the course of the hospitalization, the patient’s cleated cell count of CSF for reexamination decreased to family firmly refused
