Zhangetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2020) 20:389
KEYWORDS: striatum, csf, patient, meningitis, blood, abscesses, skin, case, published, multiple, brain, present, count, showed, bacteria


her- protein and procalcitonin were all decreased. Total nu- nia. In the course of the hospitalization, the patient’s cleated cell count of CSF for reexamination decreased to family firmly refused any surgical operations because of 110×106/L, and CSF culture yielded no bacterial thecostsandrisks. Discussion and conclusion C. striatum has been established as an emerging multidrug-resistant and opportunistic pathogen, which was traditionally known as a common component of the normal microbiota of skin and mucosal surfaces . C. striatum was commonly isolated from wounds, respira- tory specimens, tissue specimens, bone specimens and blood cultures. Therefore, most cases of C. striatum in- fection manifested aspneumonia,bacteremia/septicemia, endocarditis and peritonitis. And the scope of these in- fections hasbeen broadening. In the present case, C. striatum was isolated from CSF and identified as the causative pathogen. To our know- ledge, only a few previous reports have implicated C. striatum in central nervous system infection. The first proven case of meningitis caused by C. striatum was Fig.1GramstainofC.striatumshowstypicalcoryneformmorphology published in 1996, which was a 23-year-old Canadian Zhangetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2020) 20:389 Page3of4 Fig.2Head(a-d)andchest(e-h)CT.CTplainscanningofthecranium(a-b,redarrow)showsahypodenselesioninthemedialtemporalregion. CTscanningwithcontrastenhancement(c-d,redarrow)showsthelesioncharacterizedbyahypodensecenterandahyperdenseringthatis consideredtobeasuspectedbrainabscess.ChestCTscanning(e-h,whitearrow)showsmultipleandscatteredcavitarylesionsin peripherallungs man with a direct communication between the skin and of the present patient showed the lesion characterized by the CSF through a catheter left after an extensive nerve a hypodense center and a hyperdense ring that was con- reconstructive surgery . Subsequently, the report from sidered to be a suspected brain abscess. Comparatively, United Kingdom showed that the cultures of CSF sam- MRI combined with diffusion-weighted and apparent- ples yielded C. striatum from three children at the ages diffusion coefficient images is a more valuable diagnostic of 13-month, 20-month and 6-year, respectively . tool . Unfortunately, the present patient was unable to These cases were all treated with a ventriculoperitoneal complete MRI because of the surgical plate in the body. (VP)shuntandtheculturesofVPshuntsamplesalsore- ThebacteriapositiverateofCSFcultures inpatientswith vealed C. striatum. Two Turkish cases of meningitis due brain abscesswas not considerable,unless withcoexisting to C. striatum both underwent an external ventricular meningitis . Finally, the causative microorganism, C. drainage after neurosurgery operations . Additionally, striatum,inthepresentcasewasidentifiedfromCSFcul- a French man suffered a severe trauma leading to mul- ture. However, the association between the C. striatum tiple craniocerebral injuries and skull fractures and sub- andabnormallesioninbrainwasnotdefinitelyclearwith- sequently had the C. striatum meningitis . However, out evidence from biopsy or drainage culture. Addition- C.striatummeningitiscombinedwith multiple abscesses ally, pulmonary cavitary lesions on CT were detected in has not been published before. Bacteria can enter the
