Zhangetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2020) 20:389
KEYWORDS: striatum, csf, patient, meningitis, blood, abscesses, skin, case, published, multiple, brain, present, count, showed, bacteria


However, out evidence from biopsy or drainage culture. Addition- C.striatummeningitiscombinedwith multiple abscesses ally, pulmonary cavitary lesions on CT were detected in has not been published before. Bacteria can enter the the present patient and abscesses could not be ruled out braintoinduceintracranialinfectionthroughcontiguous as well. The most common causes of lung abscess are as- spread, hematogenous dissemination or with other un- piration pneumonia, transdiaphragmatic spread, and known mechanisms . After analyzing available litera- hematogenous seeding commonly associated with right- tures published, we discover the fact that there seems to sided endocarditis or septic thrombophlebitis . These be a direct communication between the skin and the cavitary lesions were multiple and scattered in peripheral CSF through the skin wound, bone fracture or drainage lungs, which was more supportive of hematogenous catheter to explain how C. striatum invades to CSF and spread of bacteria. Unfortunately, blood and sputum cul- causes meningitis. In the present case, it seemed that tureswerenegative. there was no direct communication between the skin C. striatum is relatively resistant to many of the com- and the CSF, in spite of those extracranial bone frac- monly used antibiotics with Gram-positive activity. It tures. Hence, it suggested hematogenous spread of bac- was demonstrated that vancomycin, linezolid and dapto- teria from the skin purulent wound was the primary mycin were generally classified as active antibiotics . cause ofmeningitis andformingabscess. However, the failure of therapy with daptomycin in Cranial imaging should be performed in patients with some case reports was associated with the rapid emer- intracranial infection, especially suspected brain abscess. gence of isolates with a resistant phenotype . Vanco- CT scanning with contrast enhancement provides a mycin was found to be the universally used antibiotic in rapid means to detect abscesses, but lacks sensitivity and cases with C. striatum meningitis published in the specificity. Head CTscanningwithcontrastenhancement above-mentioned studies and the present case report. Zhangetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2020) 20:389 Page4of4 Notethatthedifferenttreatmenteffects andclinicalout- 4. SünbülM.Corynebacteriumstriatummeningitis:reportoftwoadultcases. comes were also attributed to severity of infection and MicrobEcolHealthDis.2009;12(1):57–9. present patient had coma, anisocoria, respiratory and 6. BrouwerMC,TunkelAR,McKhannGM,vandeBeekD.Brainabscess.NEngl circulatory failure associated with the intracranial infec- JMed.2014;371(5):447–56. 7. BrouwerMC,CoutinhoJM,vandeBeekD.Clinicalcharacteristicsand tion could explain why she died. Multiple abscesses, es- outcomeofbrainabscess.Neurology.2014;82(9):806. pecially in the brain, could be a reason that her 8. YazbeckM,DahdelM,KalraA,BrowneA,PratterM.Lungabscess:update conditionswere deterioratingrapidly. onmicrobiologyandmanagement.AmJTher.2014;21(3):217–21. As a conclusion, these published cases confirm that C. striatum has the potential to cause meningitis especially Publisher’s Note SpringerNatureremainsneutralwithregardtojurisdictionalclaimsin in patients with direct communication between the skin publishedmapsandinstitutionalaffiliations.
