Medicine
KEYWORDS: cricopharyngeal, dm-, patient, myotonic, achalasia, cricopharyngeal achalasia, anesthesia, patients, general, general anesthesia, dystrophy, muscle, vfss, myotonic dystrophy, dm- patients


Medicine ® Clinical Case Report Acute cricopharyngeal achalasia after general anesthesia in myotonic dystrophy A case report Abstract Rationale: Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM-1) is a progressive multisystem genetic disorder that causes myotonia and both distal limb and facial/neck muscle weakness by expanding the CTG repeats of the DMPK gene in chromosome 19q13.3. General anesthesia is indicated in DM-1 patients owing to their sensitivity to anesthetic drugs such as opioids, hypnotics, and neuromuscular blocking agents. Patient concerns: A 48-year-old male patient underwent a laparoscopic cholecystectomy for gallstones under general anesthesia. He experienced sudden cardiac arrest and respiratory failure the day after surgery. After a thorough review of past medical history, we recognized that 15 years prior, he had been diagnosed with classic type DM-1, but the diagnosis was not self- reported before general anesthesia. Symptoms of severe dysphagia developed subsequently. In a videofluoroscopic swallowing study (VFSS), we observed abrupt aggravation of myotonic dysphagia after general anesthesia. VFSS revealed cricopharyngeal opening dysfunction, with a remaining large residue in the pyriform sinus, resulting in a severe cricopharyngeal achalasia pattern. Diagnosis: Acute cricopharyngeal achalasia after general anesthesia. Intervention and outcome: The patient underwent a dysphagia rehabilitation program that included cricopharyngeal opening exercises and functional electrical stimulation. However, no significant improvement was observed in the cricopharyngeal achalasia in a 3-month follow-up VFSS. Lessons: Low body temperature and anesthetic medications such as opioids and hypnotic agents can induce myotonia in the cricopharyngeal muscle. Abbreviations: DM-1 = myotonic dystrophy type 1, GA = general anesthesia, VFSS = videofluoroscopic swallowing study. Keywords: cricopharyngeal achalasia, general anesthesia, myotonic dystrophy type 1, upper, upper esophageal sphincter, video- fluoroscopic swallowing study 1. Introduction Low body temperature and anesthetic medications can cause tremors, resulting in myotonia. Cardiorespiratory, musculoskel- Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM-1) is an autosomal dominant, etal, and myotonic aggravation after GA has been reported. progressive, multisystemic genetic disorder that mainly causes Herein, we report the case of a DM-1 patient who suffered myotonia, distal limb and facial/neck muscle weakness, cardiac abrupt aggravation of cricopharyngeal achalasia after GA. arrhythmia, and cataracts. The prevalence of DM-1 varies between 2.1 and 14.3 per 100,000 people and is less common in Asia. DM-1 is caused by the expansion of CTG repeats of the 2. Case presentation DMPK gene in chromosome 19q13.3. A CTG length exceeding 34 repeats is considered abnormal. General anesthesia (GA) in A 48-year-old Asian male patient (weight: 72 kg, height:
