Medicine
KEYWORDS: cricopharyngeal, dm-, patient, myotonic, achalasia, cricopharyngeal achalasia, anesthesia, patients, general, general anesthesia, dystrophy, muscle, vfss, myotonic dystrophy, dm- patients


2. Case presentation DMPK gene in chromosome 19q13.3. A CTG length exceeding 34 repeats is considered abnormal. General anesthesia (GA) in A 48-year-old Asian male patient (weight: 72 kg, height: 171 cm) DM-1 patients can affect the physiological features of the dis- underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy for a 1.5-cm gallbladder thesia, such as opioids, hypnotics, and neuromuscular blockers. a medical history of cured tuberculosis 30 years prior. No specific (e-mail: ). Informed consent was obtained from all patients involved in the study. The authors have no conflicts of interest to disclose. This is an open access article distributed under the Creative Commons Data sharing not applicable to this article as no datasets were generated or Attribution License 4.0 (CCBY), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and analyzed during the current study. reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. How to cite this article: Rho Y, Chon J, Yoo MC, Shim GY, Chung SJ, Soh Y. Acute cricopharyngeal achalasia after general anesthesia in myotonic dystrophy: A case report. Medicine 2023;102:48(e36378). of Korea. Received: 13 September 2023 / Accepted: 9 November 2023 Rho et al. • Medicine (2023) 102:48 Medicine Figure 1. Still image during a videofluoroscopic swallowing study (VFSS). The VFSS reveals cricopharyngeal opening dysfunction during pharyngeal phase. Notely, even though the larynx was elevated and the epiglottis blocked the trachea, the upper esophageal sphincter failed to relax. (A) screenshot showing the lateral view; (B) screenshot of the anterior–posterior view showed a large amount of residue in both pyriform sinuses. findings in the cardiac or pulmonary systems were observed preop- reported lower esophageal achalasia, none have reported upper eratively. Perioperatively, anesthetic agents, including neuromuscu- esophageal achalasia after GA in DM-1 patients. lar blockers, sedative-hypnotics, and halogenated inhalants were Increased anesthetic risk in the DM-1 population has been administered. The patient was administered intravenous propo- observed for a long time, and proper perianesthetic care has fol (120 mg), followed by rocuronium (50 mg) and remifentanil been emphasized. Hypothermia-induced shivering can induce (1 mg) mixed with 100 mL of normal saline. At the end of the sur- myotonic contracture. In our case, the patient’s perioperative gery, sugammadex (200 mg) was administered to reverse muscle body temperature was maintained at 36.0 to 36.1 ºC. According relaxation. The operation concluded without complications, and to the guidelines, warm IV fluids or forced air blankets can main- adequate anesthetic recovery was achieved. However, the patient
