Medicine
KEYWORDS: cricopharyngeal, dm-, patient, myotonic, achalasia, cricopharyngeal achalasia, anesthesia, patients, general, general anesthesia, dystrophy, muscle, vfss, myotonic dystrophy, dm- patients


36.1 ºC. According relaxation. The operation concluded without complications, and to the guidelines, warm IV fluids or forced air blankets can main- adequate anesthetic recovery was achieved. However, the patient tain body temperature in DM-1 patients. Generally, DM-1 experienced sudden cardiac arrest and respiratory failure the day patients are sensitive to sedative-hypnotics such as propofol after surgery. Electrocardiography revealed ventricular tachycardia or opioids and require a lower doses for anesthesia. Opioids with atrial flutter, but a chest radiograph revealed normal findings. and hypnotics induce muscle myotonia in DM-1 patients, but Proximal limb weakness and severe dysphagia were observed after the exact mechanism of cricopharyngeal tone elevation has not the event. The patient complained of pharyngeal muscle weakness been determined. In the present case, the use of opioids such and residue. He also had symptoms of heartburn and gastroesoph- as remifentanil and hypnotics like propofol might have caused ageal regurgitation. After a thorough review of the patient’s medical focal myotonic contraction on the cricopharyngeal muscle. history, we discovered that 15 years prior, he had been diagnosed The patient used rocuronium—a non-depolarizing neuromus- with classic DM-1, with an expansion of 580 CTG repeats in the cular blocker—and suggamadex, which reverses neuromuscular DMPK gene. The patient’s symptoms were not severe; therefore, blockade induced by rocuronium, which were known to be rela- he did not report his DM-1 history in the preoperative assessment. tively safe in DM-1 patients. Low body temperature, propofol, Although the patient had no corresponding family history, he and remifentanil may aggravate myotonia, resulting in a severe showed other typical features of the disease, including frontal bald- cricopharyngeal achalasia pattern in DM-1. ness, distal limb atrophy, cardiac arrhythmia, gallbladder stones, and cataracts, but no dysphagia. After a videofluoroscopic swal- 4. Conclusion lowing study (VFSS), we observed the abrupt presence of myotonic cricopharyngeal achalasia. VFSS indicated cricopharyngeal open- We have reported a rare case of DM-1 with dysphagia aggra- ing dysfunction, the remaining large residue in the pyriform sinus, vation and a severe cricopharyngeal achalasia pattern after GA. and even though the larynx was elevated and the epiglottis blocked Monitoring and managing perioperative adverse events are essen- the trachea, the upper esophageal sphincter failed to relax (Fig. 1). tial in DM-1 patients after GA. Hypothermia-induced shivering, The dysphagia rehabilitation program included cricopharyngeal specific muscle relaxants, hypnotics, and opioids should be prop- opening exercises and functional electrical stimulation therapy. erly controlled to prevent
