Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, school, education, children, programs, countries, dna, nutrition, eht, school health, age, world, schools, bundy, sector


School-Based Health and Nutrition Programs Donald Bundy, Sheldon Shaeffer, Matthew Jukes, Kathleen Beegle, Amaya Gillespie, Lesley Drake, Seung-hee Frances Lee, Anna-Maria Hoffman, Jack Jones, Arlene Mitchell, Delia Barcelona, Balla Camara, Chuck Golmar, Lorenzo Savioli, Malick Sembene, Tsutomu Takeuchi, and Cream Wright The paradigmatic shift in the past decade in our understanding • Second, operations research shows that the preexisting of the role of health and nutrition in school-age children has infrastructure of the educational system can often offer a fundamental implications for the design ofeffective programs. more cost-effective route for delivery ofsimple health inter- Improving the health and nutrition ofschoolchildren through ventions and health promotion than can the health system. school-based programs is not a new concept. School health Low-income countries typically have more teachers than programs are ubiquitous in high-income countries and most nurses and more schools than clinics,often by an order of middle-income countries.In low-income countries,these pro- magnitude. educationsystems,wheretheycouldbecharacterizedasheavily tion are prerequisites for effective learning.This finding is focused on clinical diagnosis and treatment and on elite not simply the utopian aspiration for children to have schools in urban centers. This situation is changing as new healthy bodies and healthy minds,but also the demonstra- policies and partnerships are being formulated to help ensure tion ofa systemic link between specific physical insults and gressive and specifically targeting the poor,girls,and other dis- and epidemiology, as well as cognitive and educational advantaged children. This evolution reflects five key changes psychology. in our understanding of the role of these programs in child • Fourth, the provision of quality schools, textbooks, and development. teachers can result in effective education only ifthe child is present,ready,and able to learn.This perception has addi- approach to intervention,starting in utero and continuing achieve Education for All (EFA) by 2015 and address the throughout child development.In programmatic terms this Millennium Development Goals of universal basic educa- requirement implies a sequence of programs to promote tion and gender equality in education access. If every girl hood illness, and early childhood care and development. quality,then ensuring that the poorest children,who suffer school age is essential to effective growth and development. stay in school and to learn while there is essential. Morbidity as a proportion of peak value and important infections are caused by geohelminths (the 1 roundworm Ascaris, the whipworm Trichuris, and the two species of hookworms Ancylostoma and Necator) and by the 0.9 schistosomes(Schistosomaspp.),whichgiverisetoawiderange 0.8 Ascaris ofchronicbutlargelynonspecificsymptoms.Themostintense 0.7 worm infections and
