Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, school, education, children, programs, countries, dna, nutrition, eht, school health, age, world, schools, bundy, sector


by geohelminths (the 1 roundworm Ascaris, the whipworm Trichuris, and the two species of hookworms Ancylostoma and Necator) and by the 0.9 schistosomes(Schistosomaspp.),whichgiverisetoawiderange 0.8 Ascaris ofchronicbutlargelynonspecificsymptoms.Themostintense 0.7 worm infections and related illnesses occur at school age 0.6 (PartnershipforChildDevelopment1998b,1999)andaccount 0.5 School-age forsome12percentofthetotaldiseaseburdenand20percent children ofthelossofdisability-adjustedlifeyears(DALYs)fromcom- 0.4 Schistosoma municablediseaseamongschoolchildren(WorldBank1993). 0.3 Cerebral malaria haematobium Infected schoolchildren perform poorly in tests ofcognitive 0.2 function; when they are treated, immediate educational and 0.1 cognitive benefits are apparent only for children with heavy Diarrhea worm burdens or with concurrent nutritional deficits. 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Treatment alone cannot reverse the cumulative effects of life- Age (years) long infection or compensate for years ofmissed learning,but Source: Bundy and Guyatt 1996. studies suggest that children are more ready to learn after treat- ment for worm infections and may be able to catch up if this Figure 58.1 Age Distribution of Infection-Specific Morbidity learning potential is exploited effectively in the classroom (Grigorenko and others, forthcoming). In Kenya, treatment reduced absenteeism by one-fourth,with the largest gains for HIV/AIDS—thegreatestchallengeforgenerationstocome. School health and nutrition programs that help children Malaria completetheireducationanddevelopknowledge,practices, and behaviorsthatprotectthemfromHIVinfectionasthey Upto5 percent of childreninfectedwith malaria earlyin life maturehavebeendescribedasa“socialvaccine”againstthe have residual neurological sequelae . In areas of disease. unstabletransmission,malariaaccountsfor10to20percentof all-cause mortality among school-age children (Bundy and Because ofthe success ofchild survival programs,the num- others2000),andthosewhohavesufferedrepeatedattackshave ber ofchildren reaching school age (defined as 5 to 14 years of poorer cognitive abilities. In Kenya, primary school students age) is increasing and is estimated to be 1.2 billion children, miss11percentofschooldaysbecauseofmalaria,equivalentto with 88 percent living in less developed countries (U.S.Census 4millionto10milliondaysperyear(Brookerandothers2000). Bureau 2002).As figure 58.1 illustrates,the pattern ofdisease is Oral antimalarial treatment reduced school absenteeism by age specific.A large body of evidence shows that these condi- 50 percent in Ghana ;the use ofinsecticide- tions affect cognition, learning, and educational achievement treated bednets in Tanzania reduced malaria and increased (see Jukes, Drake, and Bundy forthcoming; Pollitt 1990 for attendance (Shiff and others 1996).Girls in The Gambia were reviews ofthis extensive literature). more than twice as likely to enroll in primary school ifthey had received malaria prophylaxis in early childhood (Jukes and ofthe school-age child and on the programs that can be imple- others submitted). mented at school age to promote positive outcomes. HIV/AIDS INFECTIOUS DISEASE AND SCHOOL-AGE CHILDREN Although school-age children have the lowest infection preva- lence of any age group (figure 58.2),an estimated 3.8 million A range ofinfectious diseases affect school-age children. children under
