Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, school, education, children, programs, countries, dna, nutrition, eht, school health, age, world, schools, bundy, sector


than in men, and the lowest prevalence of infection occurs in school-age children. (cid:2)3.0 Figure 58.2 Age Prevalence of HIV/AIDS (cid:2)3.5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Age (years) AIDS accounting for 50 percent ofthis increase.The number of Ghana India Indonesia orphans is expected to reach more than 25 million by 2010. Tanzania Vietnam School-age children with HIV infections have lower IQ levels and poorer academic achievement,language,and visual Source: Data from Partnership for Child Development (1998a). Note: Z-scores of less than (cid:2)2 indicate stunting. motor functioning.These deficits can be reduced or reversed with antiretroviral therapy. The improvement is greater for Figure 58.3 Mean Z-Scores of Height-for-Age of Boys in Five children ofschool age than for younger children. Countries School-Based Health and Nutrition Programs | 1093 Short-Term Hunger the children of many middle-income countries is similar to that in the United States. Hunger,which reduces ability to perform school tasks,is read- ily reversed by feeding.Children age 11 to 13 years in Jamaica improved their scores on arithmetic tests after one semester of receiving breakfast at school because they attended more regu- ESTIMATING THE BURDEN OF DISEASE larly and studied more effectively . Missing The cost per DALY of school health programs has been esti- breakfast impairs performance to a greater extent for children mated at US$20 to US$34,implying that the programs are at of poor nutritional status, who also benefit most from food least as cost-effective as many other public health “best buys” intervention (Pollitt, Cueto, and Jacoby 1998; Simeon and (Bobadilla and others 1994). However, current methods of Grantham McGregor 1989). estimating the burden for school-age children result in a signif- icant underestimation of both the developmental conse- Micronutrient Deficiency quences ofdisease and malnutrition at school age and the over- all benefits for health and development of school health and Micronutrient deficiencies may take several different forms, nutrition programs. each with negative impacts on children’s ability to perform well There are two key reasons for this underestimation.The first in school. issue relates to time scales.Many serious diseases in adulthood, including heart disease and carcinomas,are a consequence of Iron Deficiency. Iron deficiency, the most common form of unhealthy practices established in early life.This later burden micronutrient deficiency in school-age children, is caused by can be substantially and cost-effectively averted by early inter- inadequate diet and infection,particularly by hookworm and vention,particularly by school-based life-skills programs.For malaria
