Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, school, education, children, programs, countries, dna, nutrition, eht, school health, age, world, schools, bundy, sector


micronutrient deficiency in school-age children, is caused by can be substantially and cost-effectively averted by early inter- inadequate diet and infection,particularly by hookworm and vention,particularly by school-based life-skills programs.For malaria (Hall, Drake, and Bundy 2001). More than half the example, in the United States (Del Rosso and Marek 1996), school-age children in low-income countries are estimated to US$1 invested can avert US$18.80 spent on the later problems suffer from iron deficiency anemia (Partnership for Child caused by tobacco and US$5.70 on problems ofdrug and alco- Development 2001).Children with iron deficiency score 1 to 3 hol abuse. DALY estimates cannot capture these downstream SD worse on educational tests and are less likely to attend consequences of upstream intervention and instead attribute school.Iron supplementation reduces these deficits. the disease burden to the adult age group in which it appears. This kind of estimate is particularly misleading in the case of Iodine Deficiency. Iodine deficiency affects an estimated HIV/AIDS, for which prevention education at school age is 60 million school-age children; studies indicate prevalence effective in averting later infection and disease (World Bank rates between 35 and 70 percent.Iodine deficiency is related to 2002),and in the case ofestimates ofintergenerational effects, lowered general cognitive abilities and tests scores.No conclu- in which ensuring the health of an adolescent girl may help sive evidence shows that iodine supplementation improves secure the health ofher baby born a few years later. cognitive abilities in this age group (Huda, Grantham- Thesecondissueisillustratedbyexperiencewithhelminth McGregor,and Tomkins 2001). infections.In1990,theburdenwasfirstestimatedat18million DALYs,closetothevaluefortuberculosis,measles,andmalaria. Vitamin A Deficiency. Vitamin A deficiency affects an esti- Thisestimatereflectedtheubiquityof infectionandthelong- mated 85 million school-age children. The deficiency, which termconsequencesof cognitiveimpacts.In2001,theestimate causes impaired immune function and increases risk of wasonly4.7millionDALYs(WHO2003),andduringtheinter- mortality from infectious disease, is an important cause of veningyearsoneestimateputthevalueaslowas2.6million. blindness. Recent studies suggests that this deficiency is also This extraordinary variability is caused in part by different a major public health problem in school-age children. emphases on the cognitive and health impacts and illustrates Multiple-micronutrient supplements have improved cogni- how,for very common conditions,even minor changes in dis- tive function and short-term memory in schoolchildren and ability weight can affect the overall values.This variability also havereducedabsenteeismcausedbydiarrheaandrespiratory reflects the importance of a sectoral perspective, because the estimates include impact on educational achievement and child development. Obesity Thescaleof theburdenof diseaseintermsof cognitionis An estimated 17.6 million children worldwide are overweight. illustrated by estimating the impact of stunting, anemia, and Obesity is associated with underperformance in education.In
