Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, school, education, children, programs, countries, dna, nutrition, eht, school health, age, world, schools, bundy, sector


health programs offered by using the school system infrastructure rather than in Guinea and Madagascar have demonstrated that many of that of the health system as the key delivery mechanism.The these children will take advantage of simple services, such as school system provides not only a preexisting mechanism,so deworming,provided in schools (Del Rosso and Marek 1996); costs are at the margins,but also a system that aims at being the school acts essentially as a community center. It also has pervasive and socially progressive. Some important interven- been demonstrated that deworming programs in schools ben- tions,especially in terms ofhealth education,may be virtually efit out-of-school children by reducing disease transmission in cost free;they require only policy changes that result in doing the community as a whole (Bundy and others 1990). things differently. 1098 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Donald Bundy, Sheldon Shaeffer, Matthew Jukes, and others Table 58.2 Common Interventions within a School Health Program FRESH category Intervention Expected outcome Policy 1. Child rights, avoidance of discrimination and stigmatization, gender 1. Inclusion of all children sensitive, child centered 2. Inclusion of pregnant girls and mothers in education 2. Specific inclusion of girls 3. Enforcement of code of practice for teacher behavior zero tolerance policy 3. Avoidance of harassment and abuse 4. Collaboration between health and education sectors 4. Effective implementation Environment 1. Access to safe water 1,2,3,5. Reduced infection 2. Hand washing 4. Reduced drop out of adolescent girls 3. Provision of sanitation 4. Gender-separate sanitation 5. Garbage disposal 3. Peer education program 2. Lifelong positive behaviors such as avoidance of HIV/AIDS and substance abuse 4. Health-promoting clubs 3, 4. Reinforcement of positive behaviors Services 1. Deworming for intestinal worms and schistosomiasis 1. Reduction in worm infection 2. Prompt recognition and treatment of malaria 2. Reduction in impact of malaria 3. Insecticide-treated nets 3. Reduction in incidence of malaria 4. Micronutrient supplements 4. Reduction in anemia and malnutrition 5. Breakfast, snacks, and meals 5. Avoidance of hunger 6. First-aid kits 6. Management of injuries 7. Referral to youth-friendly clinics 7. Access to specific treatment 8. Counseling and psychosocial support 8. Mental health Source: and Nutrition Interventions Delivered in Schools remoteness ofcommunities,and community values and opin- ions;hence,these factors must be borne in mind when identi- Condition Intervention Cost (US$) fying a school health package.(See chapter 41 for details ofthe Intestinal worms Albendazole or mebendazole 0.03–0.20 costs ofsanitation provision.) Schistosomiasis Praziquantel
