Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, school, education, children, programs, countries, dna, nutrition, eht, school health, age, world, schools, bundy, sector


and Although this public sector “mainstream”model has proven Education is the lead implementing agency,reflecting both the some cases,the public sector has identified appropriate options achievement and the fact that the education system provides and developed operational manuals but then has used a social the most complete existing infrastructure for reaching school- fund to provide direct support to communities and has used age children. However, the education sector must share this schools to select and implement the most relevant actions responsibility with the Ministry ofHealth,particularly because tions (NGOs).In other cases,services have been contracted out It is also apparent that the program’s success depends on the by the public sector,and in some middle-income countries,the effective participation ofnumerous other stakeholders,includ- move toward a demand-led approach has resulted in a private ing civil society,and especially the beneficiaries and their par- sector service. ents or guardians.The children and their families are the clients The private sector approach has proven sustainable over ofthese programs,and their support for program implementa- nearlytwodecadesinurbanIndonesiabutmayrequireatech- tion is critical to the program’s success. nicalinfrastructureandlocalmarketbasethatareinappropri- ate for predominantly rural low-income countries. The Key Issues in Designing Effective Programs approachismodeledonaprograminitiatedinJapanin1948, entlyatfirstbutlaterformalizedwithintheJapanAssociation some key elements that are common contributors to success in of Parasite Control, who conducted stool examinations and many programs. thentreatedinfectedindividualsforapercapitafeeequivalent to approximately US$0.74 in 2004. At its peak, the private • Focus on education outcomes.Making explicit links among sector program conducted some 12 million examinations school health programs and learning and education sector annually,implyingaturnoverofnearlyUS$9millionattoday’s priorities (especially EFA and gender equity) helps ensure prices. The prevalence of roundworm infection fell from a the commitment of the sector to program support and highof 73percentin1949tolessthan0.01percentby1985. implementation. Althoughaprivatesectorresponseiseffectiveinsomecir- • Develop a formal, multisectoral policy. Education sector nutrition programs make a compelling case for public sector sector. This potential tension can be resolved by defining intervention.First,treatment externalities may create external sectoral responsibilities at the outset; failure to enter into individual.Thissituationisclearlythecaseforcommunicable sectors resisting teacher delivery of deworming drugs, diseaseinterventions,especiallyagainstworminfection.Second, despite WHO recommendations. educationcampaigns,epidemiologicalsurveillance,andinter- Because there are multiple stakeholders, implementers, ventionsthathavestrongexternalities)arealmostpurepublic enablers,and gatekeepers,a process ofconsultation is neces- goods;thatis,noonecanbeexcludedfromusingthegoodsor sary to establish ownership and to identify obstacles before servicetheydeliver,andthustheprivatesectorisunlikelytocom- they constrain progress.The process should involve at least petetodeliverthesegoods.Finally,thereistypicallylittleprivate community-based organizations,NGOs,faith-based organ- demandforgeneralpreventivemeasures,suchasinformationon izations, pupils, and teacher associations. In one country thevalueofwashinghands.Noneofthesefactorsisanargument in East Africa, lack of prior agreement on the content of suggest that private sector demand is likely to be greater in three years. middle-income populations and where public
