Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, school, education, children, programs, countries, dna, nutrition, eht, school health, age, world, schools, bundy, sector


thevalueofwashinghands.Noneofthesefactorsisanargument in East Africa, lack of prior agreement on the content of suggest that private sector demand is likely to be greater in three years. middle-income populations and where public sector actions • Use the existing infrastructure as much as possible. Building havecreatedademand. on existing curriculum opportunities and the network of formal and nonformal teachers will accelerate implementa- tion and reduce costs. Programs that rely on the develop- Roles of Key Stakeholders in Implementation but these diverse experiences suggest common features—in expensive and complicated to sustain and take to scale. 1104 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Donald Bundy, Sheldon Shaeffer, Matthew Jukes, and others Partner Roles Comments Ministry of Education Lead implementing agency Health and nutrition of schoolchildren is a priority for EFA. Lead financial resource Educationpolicydefinesschoolenvironment,curriculum,dutiesofteachers. Education sector policy Educationsystemhasapervasiveinfrastructureforreachingteachersand school-agechildren. Health sector policy health. Healthpolicydefinesroleofteachersinservicedelivery,procurementof healthmaterials. Other public sector agencies Support for education and health systems Ministries of local government are often fund holders for teachers andschools Affairs, local government) Ministries of Welfare and Social Affairs provide mechanisms for providing social funds. Material provision Sector has specialist roles in health diagnostics. cals, publications) Civil society (for example, Training and supervision At the local level, organizations serve as gatekeepers and fund holdersand NGOs, faith-based Local resource provision may target implementation. organizations, PTAs) Organizations provide additional resource streams, particularly international NGOs. Teacher associations Definition of teachers’ roles School health programs demand an expanded role for teachers. teachers, parents) Definition of acceptability of curriculum and moral and sexual content) and for the role of nonhealth agents (especially teachers’ roles teachers) in health service delivery; pupils are activeparticipants in all aspects of the process at the school level. Supplementation of resources Communities supplement program finance at the margins. Source: tions. Success in rapidly reaching all schools depends on Reliable evidence suggests that ill health and malnutrition stakeholder acceptance,which is more likely ifthe interven- affect education access,participation,completion,and achieve- tions are already sanctioned by local and international agen- cies and are already in common use by the community. can provide a cost-effective and low-cost solution. This evi- • Provide primary support from public resources. Compelling dence does not imply,however,that no uncertainties exist. arguments exist for public investment in school health pro- grams:the contribution to economic growth,the high rate Cost-Effectiveness of School-Based HIV/AIDS Prevention ofreturn,the large externalities,and the fact that the major- ity ofinterventions are public goods. Substantialevidencesuggeststhatskills-basedhealtheducation, • Be inclusive and
