Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, school, education, children, programs, countries, dna, nutrition, eht, school health, age, world, schools, bundy, sector


development trajectory These changes in emphases have coincided with significant throughoutlife(seechapter27).Wherefoodislimiting,itraises technical and political policy reform. Technical consensus the question whether the first target should be preschool rather around the FRESH framework has encouraged countries and than school-age children. This debate has been blurred by agencies to develop programs around a common coordinating admixing the nutrition outcomes with broader social and edu- principle,while the political imperative has been strengthened cation issues. Clearly, providing a meal at school is socially by the recognition that school health and nutrition programs desirable and can offer education benefits for children who are essential to achieving EFA and the Millennium Develop- otherwise would have to walk often long distances home to eat ment Goals and are at the center of the preventative response or remain hungry. It is also clear that schools represent an to the HIV/AIDS pandemic. extensive and established network for providing nutrition Although much ofthis change has evolved over the past two interventions to very large numbers of children at a low cost decades,significant acceleration has occurred since the World per child. No comparable network exists to reach preschool Education Forum in 2000. Today, a majority of low-income children. However, from a nutritional perspective, it remains countries have recognized the need for school health and nutri- unclear whether ensuring good nutrition early in life has more tion programs and are seeking to implement them. effect on subsequent development—including educational achievement—than providing food at school age. NOTES CONCLUSIONS 1.These calculations assume the following:a return to an additional year of school is 7 percent; wage gains are earned over 40 years in the The rationale for school-based health and nutrition programs workforce,discounted at 5 percent per year with no wage growth;annual and the approach to their implementation have undergone a wage earnings are US$400 per year,which is below the estimated agricul- paradigm shift over the past two decades. tural and nonagricultural annual wages for low-income countries (World Bank 2003). The opportunity costs of the additional schooling (child Thetraditionalperceptionof theseprogramsasseekingto labor) have not been considered but are likely to be negligible. improvethehealthofschoolchildrencannotbejustifiedonthe 2.Thesecalculationsassumethatapupil’sfallingbehindtheequiva- basisofmortalityorpublichealthstatisticsalone.Instead,itis lentof oneyearintestscoreshasthesameeffectonearningsaslosing increasingly recognized that a major—perhaps the major— one year of schooling; that the advantage that third graders have over secondgraders,forexample,isthesameastheadvantagesomeonewho impactofillhealthandmalnutritiononthisagegroupisthaton hasstudiedforatotalofthreeyearshasoversomeonewhohasstudied cognitivedevelopment,learning,andeducationalachievement. fortwoyears;andthattheimpactof first-gradeexaminationscoreson 1106 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Donald Bundy, Sheldon Shaeffer, Matthew Jukes, and others the probability of transition from one class
