Fatigue
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, chronic fatigue, tests, syndrome, disorders, testing, symptoms, sleep, cause, exertion, systemic, causes, disease, hiv


Fatigue is difficulty initiating and sustaining activity due to a lack of energy and accompanied by a desire to rest. Fatigue is normal after physical exertion, prolonged stress, and sleep deprivation. Fatigue occurs most often as part of a symptom complex, but even when it is the sole or main presenting symptom, fatigue is one of the most common symptoms. Fatigue can be classified in temporal categories: Recent fatigue: < 1 month duration Prolonged fatigue: 1 to 6 months duration Chronic fatigue: > 6 months duration Myalgic encephalitis/chronic fatigue syndrome is one manifestation of chronic fatigue. Systemic exertion intolerance disease is another term used to describe this condition (1). Patients with COVID-19 may also have symptoms, including fatigue, that last for weeks or even months (known as post-COVID- 19 syndrome, long COVID, or long-haul COVID) and has significant overlap with postviral fatigue (also called postviral fatigue syndrome) and chronic fatigue syndrome (2). Patients may refer to certain other symptoms as fatigue; a careful history can help differentiate fatigue from other symptoms, including: Weakness, a symptom of nervous system or muscle disorders, is the insufficient force of muscular contraction at maximum effort. Disorders such as myasthenia gravis and Eaton- Lambert syndrome can cause weakness simulating fatigue. Dyspnea on exertion, an early symptom of cardiac and pulmonary disorders, can decrease exercise tolerance, simulating fatigue. Respiratory symptoms can usually be elicited by taking a careful history. Somnolence, a symptom of disorders causing sleep deprivation (eg, allergic rhinitis, esophageal reflux, painful musculoskeletal disorders, sleep apnea, severe chronic disorders), is an unusually strong desire to sleep. Yawning and lapsing into sleep during daytime hours are common. Patients can usually tell the difference between somnolence and fatigue. However, deprivation of deep nonrapid eye movement sleep can cause muscle aches and fatigue, and many patients with fatigue have disturbed sleep, so differentiating between fatigue and somnolence may be difficult. Etiology of Fatigue Most serious (and many minor) acute and chronic illnesses produce fatigue. However, many of these have other more prominent manifestations (eg, pain, cough, fever, jaundice) as the presenting complaint. This discussion focuses on disorders that can manifest primarily as fatigue (1). The most common disorders manifesting predominantly as recent fatigue (lasting < 1 month) are Medication adverse effects Anemia Stress and/or depression The most common causes manifesting predominantly as prolonged fatigue (lasting 1 to 6 months) are Diabetes Hypothyroidism Sleep disturbances (eg, sleep apnea) Cancer
