Fatigue
KEYWORDS: fatigue, chronic, chronic fatigue, tests, syndrome, disorders, testing, symptoms, sleep, cause, exertion, systemic, causes, disease, hiv


a cause is not evident, patients should complete screening questionnaires for mental health conditions (eg, depression, anxiety, substance use disorder, somatoform disorders) as well as for domestic violence. Past medical history should address known disorders. Complete medication history should include prescription, over-the-counter, and recreational drugs. Social history should elicit descriptions of diet, drug and alcohol use, and the effect of fatigue on quality of life, employment, and social and family relationships. Physical examination Vital signs are checked for fever, tachycardia, tachypnea, and hypotension (especially orthostatic). General examination should be particularly comprehensive, including general appearance and examination of the heart, lungs, abdomen, head and neck, breasts, rectum (including prostate exam and testing for occult blood), genitals, liver, spleen, lymph nodes, joints, and skin. Neurologic examination should include testing of, at a minimum, mental status, cranial nerves, mood, affect, strength, muscle bulk and tone, reflexes, and gait. If fatigue is of recent onset, a focused examination will usually reveal the cause. If fatigue is chronic, examination is less likely to reveal a cause; however, a thorough physical examination may be diagnostically helpful, and is an important way to build rapport with the patient. Red flags Chronic weight loss Chronic fever or night sweats Generalized lymphadenopathy Muscle weakness or pain Serious nonfatigue symptoms (eg, hemoptysis, hematemesis, severe dyspnea, ascites, confusion, suicidal ideation) Involvement of > 1 organ system (eg, rash plus arthritis) New or different headache or loss of vision, particularly with muscle pains, in an older adult suggestive of polymyalgia rheumatica and/or giant cell arteritis. Interpretation of findings In general, a cause is more likely to be found when fatigue is one of many symptoms than when fatigue is the sole symptom. Fatigue that worsens with activity and lessens with rest suggests a general medical condition. Fatigue that is present constantly and does not lessen with rest, particularly with occasional bursts of energy, may indicate a mental health condition. In the absence of red flag findings, a thorough history, physical examination, and routine laboratory testing (plus tests directed at specific findings—see table Interpretation of Selected Findings in Evaluating Fatigue) should suffice for an initial evaluation. If test results are negative, watchful waiting is usually appropriate; if fatigue worsens or other symptoms and signs develop, the patient is reevaluated. Several causes can be considered for patients with prolonged or chronic fatigue and selected other common or specific clinical findings. TABLE Interpretation of Selected
