ancer
KEYWORDS: cancer, fetal, lai, lung, extracts, colon, patients, leukocytes, antigens, organs, normal, responses, lung cancer, pregnant, response


ancer Cancer Immunol Immunother (1986) 21 : 107-113 mmunol9gy mmunotherapy © Springer-Verlag1 986 Expression by human fetal organs of organ-specific cancer neoantigens as measured by leukocyte adherence inhibition* Monica Gubersky, D. M. P. Thomson, and Mark Lajzerowicz Summary. Human cancers express organ-specific cancer and is mediated by T8 + phenotypic T cells , wher- neoantigens (OSN) as determined by in vitro leukocyte re- eas T4 + phenotypic T cells are able to recognize soluble sponses to extracts of cancers by the tumor host. In this antigens in association with class II MHC antigens of study, we determined whether the OSNs were normal de- monocytes . The antigen binding leukocytes, whether velopmental proteins that were expressed by fetal organs antibody-dependent monocytes, T8 + or T4 + phenotypic T and re-expressed with oncogenesis. Fetal extracts, princi- cells, produce chemoattractant leukotrienes which actively pally of lung and colon but also of liver and kidney, were inhibit the adherence of about 30% of bystanders cells tested for their ability to induce leukocyte adherence inhi- which include mononuclear cells, T cells and neutrophils bition (LAI) as compared to extracts from adult tissues of . Further analysis of the biochemical the same organ. Leukocytes from lung cancer patients events underlying LAI has led to the appreciation that showed positive LAI responses to 13- and 19-week fetal other authentic chemoattractants are also able to mediate lung tissue. Likewise, leukocytes from colon cancer pa- LAI , thus leading to the hypothesis that LAI is asso- tients showed positive LAI responses to 14- and 19-week ciated with cellular mechanisms operating in chemotaxis fetal colon tissue, whereas leukocytes from control sub- and, by extension, also in the inflammatory response in vi- jects did not. Neither group responded positively to vo. Chemoattractant-induced LAI is, indeed, positively 21-week fetal organs. Criss-cross experiments showed that correlated with the macrophage chemotactic reactivity in the fetal antigen was organ specific. Multiparous pregnant vitro and local inflammatory response in vivo . women showed positive LAI responses to cancer extracts There are tumor cell products which can be recognized but not to extracts from normal tissues of the same organ. immunologically by deliberate heteroimmunization but The pattern of the LAI response was bell-shaped. Positive which may not be antigenic to the host's immune system. LAI responses to lung and breast cancer were detected at 4 Whilst these are of no apparent relevance to host tumor re- colon,
