ancer
KEYWORDS: cancer, fetal, lai, lung, extracts, colon, patients, leukocytes, antigens, organs, normal, responses, lung cancer, pregnant, response


be antigenic to the host's immune system. LAI responses to lung and breast cancer were detected at 4 Whilst these are of no apparent relevance to host tumor re- colon, LAI positive responses were detected at 5 to 8 disease activity, such as carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) months gestation, with the peak response at 6 months. The and alpha fetoprotein. However, there are antigens ex- results indicate that OSN of cancers are also expressed by pressed on the surface of cancer cells which are recogniz- fetal organs and sufficient antigen is shed by fetal organs able by the tumor host and hence may be targets for im- to sensitize pregnant women. Older fetal organs (21 weeks) mune attack. The LAI assay is able to detect a cellular im- and adult organs do not express an immunogenic or anti- mune response to proteins on the surface of cancer cells genic OSN. because of both their in vivo immunogenicity and in vitro antigenicity to the tumor host. A characteristic of the hu- man tumor antigen is its comparative organ-specificity and its absence of antigenicity and immunogenicity in the Introduction normal adult organ [see reviews, 22, 55]. Hence, we have The leukocyte adherence inhibition assay (LAI) has been referred to the tumor antigen as an organ-specific cancer successfully used as a method of detecting Cell-mediated neoantigen (OSN). An Mr 40,000 membrane protein from immunity against various antigens including those of tu- colon cancer or lung cancer has been identified as a mole- mors . Evidence from both animal and human stud- cule which expresses the OSN epitope . ies indicate that the response depends on antigen-binding Malignant transformation is associated with changes in leukocytes producing LAI factors. Tumor antigen-induced gene expression that result in the production of proteins LAI in animals and humans is mediated by both T cells characteristic of those of fetal origin. Immune sera from and antibody dependent monocytes . The human T heteroimmunization show that fetal and cancer tissues of- cell LAI response to crude extracts is limited to autologous ten express the same cancer associated proteins [2, 7, 14, cancer , requires recognition of class 1 MHC antigens 16, 20, 41, 54]. Also there is evidence of expression of other fetal proteins which are immunogenic to both experimen- nada 70] presumably because they are identical with immuno- Offprint requests to: D. M. P. Thomson genic proteins of the cancer
