ancer
KEYWORDS: cancer, fetal, lai, lung, extracts, colon, patients, leukocytes, antigens, organs, normal, responses, lung cancer, pregnant, response


other fetal proteins which are immunogenic to both experimen- nada 70] presumably because they are identical with immuno- Offprint requests to: D. M. P. Thomson genic proteins of the cancer cell. The present study was undertaken to determine wheth- extracts of fetal lung tissue and as a control with an extract er the OSNs of adult cancer were also expressed by the or- from normal adult lung tissue (Fig. 1). Leukocytes tested gans of the developing fetus. We found that leukocytes with extracts of 13- and 19-week fetal lung tissue were LAI from cancer patients reacted in LAI in an organ-specific positive(p< 0.001). Older fetal lung tissue of 20 weeks eli- fashion to extracts from fetal organs of13 to 19 weeks. In cited a slightly increased LAI response (p< 0.05), whereas addition, there was evidence that pregnant women were 21-week fetal lung tissue did not (p>0.1) (Fig. 1). At the sensitized to the OSNs from fetal organs since they had same time, leukocytes from subjects with benign diseases LAI reactivity to both extracts Of cancer and fetal organs were tested with the same pairs of extracts and showed no from about 14 to 28 weeks of gestation. positive LAI responses to either the extracts of lung cancer or fetal lung tissues (Fig, 1). Leukocytes from 14 patients with: colon cancer, who Material and methods had posirtive LAI responses to an extract of colon cancer, Extracts. Cancers metastasizing to the liver were dissected were tested with extracts of fetal colon and as a control free of necrotic and normal tissue at necropsy. Normal tis- with an extract of normal adult colon mucosa. Figure 2 sue from the same organs from which the cancer originat- shows that leukocytes gave positive LAI responses to ex- ed was collected at necropsy or from fresh surgical speci- tracts of fetal colon tissues of 14 and 19 weeks but negative mens. Fetal tissues were obtained fresh from elective ther- responses to older fetal colon tissues of 21 weeks. Leuko- apeutic abortions at our hospital. Eight relatively intact fe- cytes from subjects with benign diseases were tested at the tuses from 13 and 14 weeks and one each from 19, 20, and same time with the same extracts and gave negative LAI 21 weeks were available for antigen preparations. The ap- responses to the extracts of colon cancer and fetal colon propriate organs from each fetus were
