ancer
KEYWORDS: cancer, fetal, lai, lung, extracts, colon, patients, leukocytes, antigens, organs, normal, responses, lung cancer, pregnant, response


extracts and gave negative LAI 21 weeks were available for antigen preparations. The ap- responses to the extracts of colon cancer and fetal colon propriate organs from each fetus were dissected free of tissue (Fig. 2). other tissues. Extracts of the different organs were pre- The preceding results indicated that leukocytes from pared as previously described in phosphate buffered sa- patients with cancer were also sensitized to an antigen of line, pH 7.3 (PBS) and stored in 0.3 ml samples at -70 °C fetal tissues. To determine whether the sensitizing antigen 25. The protein concentration was determined by the was organ-specific, criss-cross experiments were per- method of Lowry et al. 37 with bovine albumin as a formed. Figure 3 shows that leukocytes from control sub- standard. Permission to undertake this study was obtained jects showed no LAI response to extracts of either cancer sion to use the fetal tissue was obtained from the individu- patients gave positive LAI responses to extracts of fetal al patient. Abortions of fetuses of 19, 20, and 21 weeks lung tissues but not to fetal liver, kidney, or colon tissues, were performed because they had severe structural abnor- whereas leukocytes from colon cancer patients gave posi- malities which were incompatible with life. tive LAI responses to extracts of fetal colon tissue but not to fetal liver, kidney, or lung tissues (Fig. 3). Finally, leu- Leukocytes. Blood was drawn into heparinized tubes from kocytes from patients with kidney cancer gave positive which the buffy coat peripheral blood leukocytes were LAI responses to fetal kidney tissues but not to fetal colon, separated, prepared and suspended at 1 x l0 7 cells/ml in lung, or liver tissues (Fig. 3). Medium 199 as previously described 25. Donors included The organ specificity of the antigen in fetal lung tissues pregnant multiparous women, patients with early cancer was tested even more extensively (Fig. 4). Leukocytes from and subjects with benign diseases. controls had negative LAI responses to extracts of cancers Tube LAI assay. The LAI assay was performed as previ- ously described by Grosser and Thomson 25. The extract LEUKOCYTE DONOR of cancer or fetal organ was paired with the extract of nor- ~ Control Subjects Lung Cancer Patients mal tissues from the same adult organ. The nonadherent N=8 cells at the completion of the assay were counted by image 60 "- N= .~13 N=9 analysis. The difference in nonadherent cells
