ancer
KEYWORDS: cancer, fetal, lai, lung, extracts, colon, patients, leukocytes, antigens, organs, normal, responses, lung cancer, pregnant, response


colon cancer or fe- Fig. 3. Organ-specificity for expression of fetal antigen as deter- tal colon compared to extracts of normal colon mucosa are ex- mined by LAI criss-cross testing. Organ-specific cancer was the pressed as an NAI (see Material and methods). Bar is SE. extract of the same cancer as the leukocyte donor for patients with N = number of patients tested. cancer and was paired with an extract of normal tissue from the Student's independent t-test of NAIs for colon cancer patients same organ. Control subjects were tested with the same paired ex- and control subjects was compared:p< 0.001 tracts. The fetal organs were also paired with normal adult tissue from the same organ. Each column represents a minimum of se- ven separate tests. Bar is SE. Mean NAIs >30 were statistically significant by Student's independent t-test (p < 0.001) Organ Specific Cancer Neoantigen Fetal Lung Antigen vs Normal Lung Tissue Lung Cancer OSN 60 - N=4 N=3 N=3 N=3 "1" N=3 N=7 Z 30 I o , i , i Diagnosis of Leukocyte Donor Fig. 4. Organ-specific expression of lung fetal antigen as determined by LAI response of leukocytes from control subjects and patients with cancers of other organs. The percent change in nonadherence, expressed as an NAI, of leukocytes to an extract of cancer from the same organ as the leukocyte donor, to an extract of fetal lung and to an extract of lung cancer was compared to an extract of normal lung tissue. N equals the number of leukocyte donors. For control subjects, the NAI is shown as a single column and represents the mean for all three specific antigens; however, in no instance was the mean for any one of the three specific antigens significantly different from that mean shown. Bar is SE. Mean NAIs > 30 were statistically significant by Student's independent t-test (p< 0.001) from different organs, lung cancer, and fetal lung tissue. served 59, 60. By contrast, although leukocytes from pa- Leukocytes from breast cancer patients had positive LAIs tients with other cancers gave positive LAI responses to an not only to the extract of breast cancer but also to the ex- extract of cancer from their respective organ, none had tract of lung cancer and fetal lung tissue. Cross-reactivity positive LAI responses to extracts of either lung cancer or between breast and lung cancer has previously been ob- fetal lung
