ancer
KEYWORDS: cancer, fetal, lai, lung, extracts, colon, patients, leukocytes, antigens, organs, normal, responses, lung cancer, pregnant, response


tract of lung cancer and fetal lung tissue. Cross-reactivity positive LAI responses to extracts of either lung cancer or between breast and lung cancer has previously been ob- fetal lung tissue. LAI reactivity of pregnant women to tumor extracts sponse peaked at the 5th month and was negative by the 8th month (Fig. 6). Because of cross-reactivity between The fetus could possibly release sufficient OSNs to sensi- breast and lung cancer, whether fetal lung or breast or tize the pregnant woman. To increase the likelihood of de- both were responsible for sensitizing the pregnant women tecting sensitization to the OSNs, multiparous women who could not be determined. had possibly been sensitized by prior pregnancies were Similarly, leukocytes from pregnant multiparous wom- tested at different stages of pregnancy. If the women did en were tested with extracts of colon cancer and normal indeed become sensitized, it was likely that the sensitiza- colon mucosa (Fig. 7). The positive LAI responses to colon tion would be directed to OSNs of many different organs. cancer were also bell-shaped and depended on the stage of Thus to detect sensitization by LAI, it was necessary to pregnancy. Positive LAI responses were not observed at compare the LAI response directed to a cancer extract the 4th month of pregnancy, but positive LAIs were found with that to an extract of normal adult tissue of the same to peak at the 5th and 6th months of pregnancy with the organ. Figure 5 shows that leukocytes from lung cancer LAI response becoming weaker by the 7th and 8th months patients gave a strong positive LAI response to lung can- and negative by the 9th month of pregnancy (Fig. 7). cer compared to normal lung tissue, whereas leukocytes Leukocytes from multiparous women who were 5 to 6 from subjects with benign disease exhibited no positive months pregnant were also tested against extracts of fetal LAI responses. To the same lung cancer and normal lung organs and normal adult organs and showed positive LAIs tissue extracts, leukocytes from pregnant multiprous wom- to the fetal organs (Table 1). en gave positive LAI responses to the lung cancer extract which depended on the stage of pregnancy: they had posi- tive LAI responses beginning at the 4th month of pregnan- Discussion cy, peaking at the 5th month and then growing weaker by Cellular immunity to immunogenic proteins can be mea- the 7th and 8th
