ancer
KEYWORDS: cancer, fetal, lai, lung, extracts, colon, patients, leukocytes, antigens, organs, normal, responses, lung cancer, pregnant, response


by Student's independent t-test N = number of patients tested. Student's independent t-test < .001 gans and with leukocytes from pregnant women suggested 60t N=5 <0001 that OSN expression by fetal organs was limited to early <N =0081 T N=14 developmental stages. The experimental results indicated that older fetal organs and adult organs do not express an OSN molecule: OSN was undetectable as an antigen in 50 k.-c normal organ extracts, nor did OSN act as an immunogen since normal subjects were not sensitized to the cancer ex- tracts. There is considerable evidence from in vitro assays of 40 cellular immunity that fetal tissues from animals express antigens which cross-react with experimentally-induced tumors (either virally- or chemically-induced) 3, 4, 9, 11, 12, 27, 36, 52, 53. The contribution of these tumor-asso- Z 30 ciated fetal antigens in eliciting effective antitumor im- mune responses is controversial. In the past, deliberate fe- >0.2 tal immunization has had no effect 5, 44, 66, a protective N=7 effect 12, 26, 46, 52 or even a stimulating effect 8, 42 on 20 syngenic tumor cell growth. Recent studies have suggested that tumor-associated fetal antigens on fetal cells are im- munoprotective 24, 27 and can induce a T cell response in vivo against even weakly antigenic metastatic tumors N=22 18. Moreover, there is evidence that exposure to embry- onic antigens by pregnancy bestows cytolytic activity on the lymphocytes and has an immunprotective effect against the transplanted tumor cells in vivo 23. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Control Colon Of importance are whether the OSNs of human can- Subjects Cancer cers are immunprotective. If so, immunization during hu- Months Pregnant Patients man pregnancy by cross-reacting fetal OSNs might be ex- Fig. 7. Bell-shaped LAI response for leukocytes from pregnant pected to bestow on multiparous women a favorable prog- multiparous women at different stages of gestation to an extract of nosis aga.inst cancer. Epidemiological data indicate that colon cancer vs normal colon mucosa. LAI response to the same paired antigens is shown on the right for leukocytes from colon multiparous women have a lower risk of malignant mela- ine and breast cancer 47, 48. There is also evidence that once multiparous women have malignant melanoma or Table 1. LAI response of multiparous pregnant women to extracts colon cancer they survive the cancer longer than nullipa- from fetal organs rous women 29, 34, 49. Whether the basis
