ancer
KEYWORDS: cancer, fetal, lai, lung, extracts, colon, patients, leukocytes, antigens, organs, normal, responses, lung cancer, pregnant, response


Table 1. LAI response of multiparous pregnant women to extracts colon cancer they survive the cancer longer than nullipa- from fetal organs rous women 29, 34, 49. Whether the basis for the favor- able prognosis that pregnancy confers is related to immu- Leukocyte donor Fetal extract NAI nization to oncofetal antigens is unknown 29, 32. The ep- 19 weeks idemological studies usually associate the advantage of Pregnant multiparous (n = 4) Liver 38 -+-4a ,b parity with undefineable hormonal changes 49. Control (n = 8) 4+3 A review of previous results from in vitro studies of cellular and humoral immunity suggests that human can- Pregnant multiparous (n = 4) Kidney 43 ___5b Control (n = 6) 3+3 cers and fetal tissues share immunogenic antigens 10, 19, 21, 28, 39, 43, 70. However, the results provide a wide Pregnant multiparous (n = 3) Lung 52 + l0 b discrepancy in the time of fetal expression of the antigens, Control (n = 7) 0+8 the specificity of the antigens, and the effect of fetal anti- " Mean + SE gens on sensitization of pregnant women. By an LAI as- parous and control cytes from cancer patients react with cancer extracts with- out organ specificity, with fetal extracts of 3 to 7 months enic and antigenic to pregnant multiparous woman since and with human encephalitogenic protein. The trend of they had LAI responses to extracts of both fetal tissues and their LAI results was similar to ours, but they did not use a cancer in a bell-shaped pattern from 14 to 28 weeks of ges- control extract as in this study. In as much as most in vitro tation with peak LAI activity at about 20 weeks. assays of human cellular immunity lack exquisite sensitivi- The peak LAI reactivity of the pregnant women fol- ty and specificity the variations in findings may be directly lowed the peak quantitative expression of OSN by fetal or- related to the technical difficulties of the various assays. gans. Once expression of fetal OSN stopped at about 21 Since the accuracy of the LAI assay has been verified with weeks, LAI reactivity persisted for about 2 months and coded samples of blood 22, 55, tumor, and tumor iso- then became undetectable. This finding is identical to our lastes, it is likely that the present results more closely previous observation that LAI reactivity of cancer patients reflect the actual
