NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, therapy, agents, isoniazid, rifampin, recommended, hepatotoxicity, course, ethambutol, antituberculosis, medications, include, month, pyrazinamide, line


have lower rates of hepatotoxicity. Therapy is also recommended for latent tuberculosis or the finding of a positive protein derivative skin test (PPD), particularly in a high risk individual, after known exposure or with known skin test conversion. Th e primary regimen recommended for latent tuberculosis is a 9 month course of isoniazid, daily or twice weekly. The twice weekly regimen is appropriate for "directly observed therapy" (DOT), which helps in compliance and early detection and management of adverse reactions including hepatotoxicity. Alternative approaches include a 6 month course of isoniazid daily or twice weekly (DOT), a 4 month course of rifampin daily, and a 3 month course of isoniazid and rifapentine once weekly (DOT). The previous recommendation for using a 4 month 2 LiverTox course of rifampin and pyrazinamide is no longer recommended because of the potential for severe hepatotoxicity. Regularly updated recommendations on the diagnosis, prevention and therapy of tuberculosis are available from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention at: First line medications used in the therapy of tuberculosis include ethambutol, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, rifabutin, rifampin, and rifapentine. Second line medications include streptomycin, capreomycin, cycloserine, ethionamide, amikacin, levofloxacin, moxifloxacin, and para-aminosalicylic acid (PAS) (the latter is not discussed on this website). Finally, bedaquiline, the first new medication specifically for treatment of tuberculosis in more than forty years, was approved for use in the United States in 2012. Bedaquiline is currently limited in availability and is recommended only as directly observed therapy of multidrug resistant tuberculosis when an effective treatment regimen cannot otherwise be provided. The following antituberculosis medications are discussed individually: • Bedaquiline • Capreomycin • Cycloserine • Ethambutol • Ethionamide • Isoniazid • Pretomanid • Pyrazinamide • Rifabutin • Rifampin • Rifapentine • Streptomycin
