Utility of Advanced Lipoprotein Testing in Clinical Practice
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, risk, ldl, lipoprotein, cholesterol, apolipoprotein, non-hdl-c, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, particle, number, study


ABSTRACT A standard lipid panel includes total cholesterol, triglycerides, and HDL-C. LDL-C can then be calculated. While the Friedewald formula is the classical method to calculate LDL-C levels recently developed formulas such as Martin Hopkins formula or Sampson-NIH formula are more accurate when triglycerides are elevated and/or LCL-C levels are low. In some instances, a direct LDL-C assay is employed, particularly when the triglyceride levels are elevated (>400mg/dL). Non-HDL-C can also be calculated (non-HDL-C = total cholesterol – HDL-C). Increasing levels of LDL-C and non-HDL-C are associated with an increased risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD). However, numerous studies have demonstrated that the association of non-HDL-C with ASCVD is more robust. It is possible to measure apolipoprotein B and A-I levels, LDL and HDL size, LDL and HDL particle number, and Lp(a). Numerous studies have documented a link between small dense LDL particles and an increased risk of ASCVD; however, the association is markedly reduced or entirely eliminated when the analyses are adjusted for other factors that affect ASCVD risk. Similarly, there is little data demonstrating that HDL subfractions are useful in risk prediction beyond HDL and other traditional risk factors. Apolipoprotein B levels and LDL particle number are more strongly associated with ASCVD than LDL-C, particularly when the levels of LDL-C and apolipoprotein B levels or LDL particle number are discordant. Similarly, while apolipoprotein B levels or LDL particle number are significantly better than non-HDL-C in predicting ASCVD risk when the levels of non-HDL-C and apolipoprotein B levels or LDL particle number are discordant whether this will alter therapy in most patients is debated. The guidelines put forth by a variety of different expert panels and organizations do not require apolipoprotein B or LDL particle number but may use them as risk enhancing factor. It is also the author’s opinion that at this time the routine measurement of apolipoprotein B and/or LDL particle number is not required. Until data demonstrate the superiority of measuring apolipoprotein B or LDL particle number on clinical outcomes it is hard to recommend the routine use of such testing. However, in situations where there is uncertainty measurement of apolipoprotein B and/or LDL particle number can be helpful. Studies have demonstrated an association of Lp(a) with ASCVD. Many experts recommend measuring Lp(a) once in all patients while other experts recommend measuring Lp(a) more selectively in a) patients with unexplained premature CHD, b) patients with a
