Utility of Advanced Lipoprotein Testing in Clinical Practice
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, risk, ldl, lipoprotein, cholesterol, apolipoprotein, non-hdl-c, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, particle, number, study


with ASCVD. Many experts recommend measuring Lp(a) once in all patients while other experts recommend measuring Lp(a) more selectively in a) patients with unexplained premature CHD, b) patients with a strong family history of premature CHD, c) patients with resistance to LDL lowering with statins, d) patients with rapid unexplained progression of atherosclerosis, and e) patients with familial hypercholesterolemia. Elevations in Lp(a) will stimulate more aggressive lowering of LDL and the consideration of adding drugs that lower Lp(a) such as niacin or PCSK9 inhibitors. While routine use of advanced lipoprotein testing is not routinely recommended it should be recognized that in selected patients the additional information provided can be helpful and result in changes in treatment. As additional drugs to treat lipids are developed and our understanding of lipid and lipoprotein metabolism expands in the future the use of advanced lipoprotein analysis may assume a more important role. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION A variety of specialized lipid and lipoprotein tests are available and a question that is frequently asked is whether and when to utilize these tests in evaluating and treating patients with lipid disorders. The standard lipid panel includes the measurement of total cholesterol, triglycerides, and HDL cholesterol (HDL-C). The LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) can then be calculated using the Friedewald formula (LDL-C = total cholesterol – HDL-C – TG/5). In some instances, a direct LDL-C assay is employed because as the triglyceride levels increase the accuracy of the calculated LDL-C decreases and once the triglyceride levels are greater than 400mg/dl most laboratories will no longer provide a calculated LDL-C level. In patients with normal triglyceride levels and LDL levels > 100mg/dl calculated LDL-C and directly measured LDL-C are very strongly correlated and the difference between the levels is relatively small ( 1-3 ). However, if the triglyceride levels are greater than 150-200mg/dl the calculated LDL-C will be lower than the directly measured LDL-C level ( 1 ). Additionally, if the LDL-C level is low (<100mg/dl) the calculated LDL-C also tends to underestimate the true LDL-C level ( 1-5 ). Because of the inaccuracies of LDL-C levels calculated by the Friedewald formula a new and more accurate formula (Martin Hopkins Formula) has been developed ( 6 ). Several studies have demonstrated the increased accuracy of this new formula compared to the Friedewald formula with a particular
