Utility of Advanced Lipoprotein Testing in Clinical Practice
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, risk, ldl, lipoprotein, cholesterol, apolipoprotein, non-hdl-c, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, particle, number, study


accurate formula (Martin Hopkins Formula) has been developed ( 6 ). Several studies have demonstrated the increased accuracy of this new formula compared to the Friedewald formula with a particular advantage in settings of low LDL-C and high triglycerides ( 7-12 ). Major laboratories such as Quest now calculate LDL-C levels using the Martin Hopkins formula. A disadvantage of the Martin Hopkins formula is that it is more complex than the Friedewald formula and the LDL-C cannot be simply calculated. However, there is free, online access that allows for the automated calculation of LDL cholesterol by the Martin Hopkins formula ( www.LDL-Calculator.com/ ) and a smart phone application (LDL cholesterol calculator: https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/apps/all-apps/ldl-cholesterol-calculator ). In addition to the Martin Hopkins formula other formulas to more accurately calculate LDL-C levels have been developed. The Sampson-NIH equation in some studies was more accurate when the triglyceride levels were elevated than the Martin Hopkins formula ( 13 , 14 ) but in other studies the Martin Hopkins formula was more accurate ( 15 ). The key is that there are better methods to calculate LDL-C levels than the Friedewald formula when triglyceride levels are elevated or LDL-C levels are low. Non-HDL cholesterol (non-HDL-C) levels can also be calculated from a routine lipid panel (non-HDL-C = total cholesterol – HDL-C). “Remnant cholesterol” can also be estimated from the routine lipid panel (Remnant cholesterol = total cholesterol – LDL-C (direct measurement) – HDL-C) ( 16 , 17 ). High calculated remnant cholesterol levels are associated with an increased risk of ASCVD ( 16 ). Whether remnant cholesterol levels provide information on ASCVD risk above that provided by non-HDL-C and triglyceride levels is not clear. It should be noted that there is no accepted standard for defining remnant lipoproteins or the methods used to accurately measure remnant particles ( 18 ). Of note most guidelines and risk calculators do not require lipid and lipoprotein measurements beyond a routine lipid panel. For example, the ACC/AHA (Pooled Cohort Equations), QRISK, Reynolds, SCORE, and Framingham calculators utilize total cholesterol and HDL-C levels in order to calculate the risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) ( 19-23 ). In the past fasting lipid panels were exclusively recommended but recent guidelines recommend either fasting or non-fasting lipid panels (( 24-26 ). Non-fasting lipid panels will increase the convenience of obtaining lipid studies. Additionally, in patients with diabetes, fasting for the lipid panel increases
