Utility of Advanced Lipoprotein Testing in Clinical Practice
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, risk, ldl, lipoprotein, cholesterol, apolipoprotein, non-hdl-c, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, particle, number, study


fasting or non-fasting lipid panels (( 24-26 ). Non-fasting lipid panels will increase the convenience of obtaining lipid studies. Additionally, in patients with diabetes, fasting for the lipid panel increases the risk of hypoglycemia ( 27 ). Moreover, studies have shown that the ability of fasting and non-fasting lipid panels to predict ASCVD is similar ( 28-32 ). Fasting and non-fasting total cholesterol, HDL-C, and non-HDL-C levels are virtually identical ( 33 , 34 ). Triglyceride levels may increase in the fed state depending upon the amount of fat consumed and the time after consumption and therefore depending upon the circumstances there may be a considerable difference between fasting and non-fasting triglyceride levels in some patients ( 33 , 34 ). LDL-C levels calculated by the Friedewald formula are often decreased in the fed state due to increases in triglyceride levels ( 33 ). In the non-fasting state when LDL-C levels were calculated using the Friedewald formula 30% of patients had a ≥ 10 mg/dL difference compared to direct LDL-C measurements ( 9 ). In contrast, when LDL-C was calculated using the Hopkins Martin or Sampson-NIH formula the results were very similar to direct measurements. Therefore, if one is using non-fasting LDL-C in decision making one should calculate the LDL-C level using the Hopkins Martin or Sampson-NIH formula to increase accuracy. It should be noted that in patients where a genetic disorder of lipid metabolism is suspected or with previously elevated triglyceride levels a fasting lipid panel is preferred. Similarly, if triglyceride levels are elevated (>175mg/dL) with a non-fasting lipid panel the lipid panel should be repeated while fasting. LDL CHOLESTEROL VS. NON-HDL CHOLESTEROL LDL-C and non-HDL-C levels are strongly correlated and increasing levels of either parameter is associated with an increased risk of ASCVD. Numerous studies have compared the ability of LDL-C and non-HDL-C to predict ASCVD events ( 35 ). In general, while both LDL-C and non-HDL-C predict an increased risk, non-HDL-C levels are a better predictor ( 35-42 ). For example, in the Women’s Health Study, a prospective cohort study of 15,632 initially healthy US women aged 45 years or older, the relative risk of a cardiovascular event in the top vs. bottom quintile was 1.62 for LDL-C and 2.51 for non-HDL-C ( 41 ). Similarly, in the Health Professionals Follow-up Study, a study of 51,529 US male health professionals between 40 to 75 years of age,
