Utility of Advanced Lipoprotein Testing in Clinical Practice
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, risk, ldl, lipoprotein, cholesterol, apolipoprotein, non-hdl-c, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, particle, number, study


LDL-C and 2.51 for non-HDL-C ( 41 ). Similarly, in the Health Professionals Follow-up Study, a study of 51,529 US male health professionals between 40 to 75 years of age, the relative risk of a cardiovascular event in the highest quintile compared with the lowest quintile was 1.81 for LDL-C and 2.76 for non-HDL-C ( 42 ). While LDL-C and non-HDL-C are strongly correlated there are some individuals where these measurements are discordant (i.e., a relatively low LDL-C and a relatively high non-HDL-C or conversely a relatively high LDL-C and a relatively low non-HDL-C). In discordant situations the non-HDL-C levels are a much better predictor of cardiovascular events than the LDL levels. For example, in a study by Mora of 27,533 healthy women, 11.6% had discordant levels with discordance defined as an LDL-C above the median and a non-HDL-C below the median or an LDL-C below the median with a non-HDL-C above the median ( 43 ). Most significantly, in women with a below-median LDL-C but a non-HDL-C above the median coronary risk was underestimated by almost 3-fold for women when the LDL-C was used to predict events ( 43 ). Conversely, in women with above-median LDL-C but a non-HDL-C below the median coronary risk was overestimated by almost 3-fold when their LDL-C was used to predict events ( 43 ). Thus, the risk of ASCVD tracks more closely with non-HDL-C levels and these results highlight the advantage of non-HDL-C measurements compared to LDL-C measurements in determining risk of ASCVD. In addition, this discordance between calculated LDL-C (measured by the Friedewald formula) and non-HDL-C levels can result in the misclassification of patients. For example. in patients with LDL-C levels <70 mg/dl, 15% had a non-HDL-C level ≥ 100 mg/dl and if the triglyceride levels were between 150-199mg/dl 22% had a non-HDL-C ≥ 100 mg/dl ( 44 ). Thus, a significant number of patients who have reached their LDL-C goal of < 70mg/dl have not reached their non-HDL-C goal. The method used to determine LDL-C levels influences the rate of discordance between LDL-C and non-HDL-C levels. When the LDL-C levels were measured by the Friedewald formula the discordance was considerable higher than when LDL-C levels were measured using the Hopkins Martin formula ( Table 1 ) ( 45 ). Table 1. Discordance Between LDL-C and Non-HDL-C Levels View in own window Percent with Non-HDL-C > 100mg/dl LDL-C < 70mg/dL Friedewald Formula
