Utility of Advanced Lipoprotein Testing in Clinical Practice
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, risk, ldl, lipoprotein, cholesterol, apolipoprotein, non-hdl-c, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, particle, number, study


formula ( Table 1 ) ( 45 ). Table 1. Discordance Between LDL-C and Non-HDL-C Levels View in own window Percent with Non-HDL-C > 100mg/dl LDL-C < 70mg/dL Friedewald Formula 14-15% LDL-C < 70mg/dL Hopkins Martin Formula ~2% Percent with Non-HDL-C > 130mg/dl LDL-C < 100mg/dl Friedewald Formula 8-10% LDL-C < 100mg/dl Hopkins Martin Formula ~ 1% Finally, studies have examined the relative utility of LDL-C and non-HDL-C levels in determining the benefits of statin therapy. A meta-analysis by Boekholdt and colleagues looked at 8 statin trials with 62,154 patients ( 46 ). They found that while on treatment levels of both LDL-C and non-HDL-C were associated with the risk of future cardiovascular events the association was more robust for non-HDL-C ( 46 ). Taken together these data indicate that while both LDL-C and non-HDL-C levels are predictive of ASCVD events non-HDL-C is a better predictor. The older NCEP guidelines recommended non-HDL-C as a therapeutic target if the triglyceride levels were greater than 200mg/dl and the newer National Lipid Association and American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists recommendations consider non-HDL-C as a target along with LDL-C ( 19 , 26 , 47 ). The non-HDL-C targets are 30mg/dl higher than the LDL-C targets (for example if the LDL-C target is 70mg/dl the non-HDL-C target would be 100mg/dl). It is the opinion of this author that clinicians should utilize non-HDL-C levels more frequently in the evaluation and management of patients with hyperlipidemia. Additionally, non-HDL-C levels are easily calculated when one obtains a routine lipid panel in the fed or fasted state. ADVANCED LIPOPROTEIN TESTS In addition to a routine lipid panel, it is possible for the clinician to measure a number of other parameters including apolipoprotein B and A-I levels, LDL and HDL size, LDL and HDL particle number, and lipoprotein (a) (Lp(a)) levels. A number of different tests are offered by large commercial laboratories. Currently, lipoprotein analysis by Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (NMR) is offered by LabCorp and Ion-Mobility Analysis is offered by Quest Diagnostics. Density Gradient Ultracentrifugation (VAP) by Atherotec was discontinued (Feb 2016). Both, LabCorp and Quest provide routine lipid panel measurements plus LDL particle number, apolipoprotein B levels, indication of LDL and HDL size, and Lp(a) measurements. It should be recognized that the standardization of certain of these assays is not as rigorous as the standardization of routine lipid panel assays ( 3 ). The Centers for Disease
