Utility of Advanced Lipoprotein Testing in Clinical Practice
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, risk, ldl, lipoprotein, cholesterol, apolipoprotein, non-hdl-c, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, particle, number, study


should be recognized that the standardization of certain of these assays is not as rigorous as the standardization of routine lipid panel assays ( 3 ). The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) maintains a Lipid Standardization Program (LSP) that provides standards for measuring total cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL-C, apolipoprotein A-I, and apolipoprotein B. Measurements of LDL and HDL size and particle number are not as standardized and studies have shown differences in results between different methods ( 3 , 48 , 49 ). For example, Witte and colleagues compared LDL size using NMR and gradient gel electrophoresis and observed a correlation of only 0.39 between the two methods with an average difference in LDL size of 5.38nm with NMR values being lower ( 50 ). When these investigators classified patients according to whether they had small dense LDL (Pattern B) less than 50% of patients classified as pattern B using gradient gel electrophoresis were classified as pattern B using NMR ( 50 ). Similarly, Ensign et al., compared VAP, NMR, tube gel electrophoresis, and gradient gel electrophoresis to determine LDL subclasses and found a strong disagreement in patient LDL phenotyping among these four different methods ( 51 ). Measurement of LDL and HDL particle number has also shown discrepant results between different methods ( 52 , 53 ). These and other results highlight the lack of rigorous standardization ( 54 ). LDL SIZE The size of LDL particles is heterogeneous and there are a number of different methods to determine LDL size (ultracentrifugation, gradient gel electrophoresis, ion mobility, NMR) ( 55 ). As noted above, the different methods of LDL subclass analysis may produce different results and significant variations are possible even within one method ( 48 ). Studies have shown that small dense LDL is more pro-atherogenic than large LDL particles. Small dense LDL are thought to be more atherogenic because they are better able to penetrate the endothelial cell barrier and enter the intima, are more susceptible to oxidation, bind to proteoglycans in the arterial wall, and have a longer half time in the circulation than large LDL particles ( 56 ). It should be noted though that large LDL particles are also pro-atherogenic ( 57-61 ). For example, patients with familial hypercholesterolemia tend to have large LDL particles and these patients are at high risk to develop ASCVD ( 60 ). Small LDL particles are typically
