Utility of Advanced Lipoprotein Testing in Clinical Practice
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, risk, ldl, lipoprotein, cholesterol, apolipoprotein, non-hdl-c, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, particle, number, study


For example, patients with familial hypercholesterolemia tend to have large LDL particles and these patients are at high risk to develop ASCVD ( 60 ). Small LDL particles are typically seen in patients with elevated triglyceride levels and decreased HDL-C levels (i.e. patients with the metabolic syndrome, obese patients, patients with diabetes) ( 62 ). Numerous studies have documented a link between small dense LDL particles and an increased risk of ASCVD ( 63 , 64 ). However, the association of small dense LDL with ASCVD is markedly reduced or entirely eliminated when the analyses are adjusted for other factors that affect the risk of ASCVD ( 63 , 64 ). The National Lipid Association expert panel was unable to identify any patient subgroups in which measuring LDL size is necessary ( 65 ). The author concurs with that viewpoint. HDL SIZE HDL particles are heterogeneous and vary in size ( 66 , 67 ). The metabolism and function of the spectrum of HDL particles is poorly understood. Additionally, there are a number of different methods of measuring HDL size and the comparability of the various methods is uncertain ( 54 , 66 , 67 ). Finally, and most importantly there is little data demonstrating that measurements of HDL subfractions are useful in risk prediction beyond measuring HDL and other traditional risk factors ( 64 , 67 , 68 ). Because of these issues the National Lipid Association Expert Panel was unable to find situations where HDL subfraction measurements would be recommended ( 65 ). It should be recognized that the crucial issue with HDL may not be the HDL levels per se but rather the function of the HDL particles ( 54 ). Assays have been developed to determine the ability of HDL to facilitate cholesterol efflux from macrophages and these studies have shown that the levels of HDL-C do not necessarily indicate the ability to mediate cholesterol efflux ( 69 ). Moreover, cholesterol efflux from macrophages had a strong inverse association with both carotid intima-media thickness and the likelihood of angiographic coronary artery disease, independently of the HDL-C level ( 70 ). Additionally cholesterol efflux was also inversely associated with the incidence of cardiovascular events ( 71 , 72 ). These results indicate that it is the functional capability of HDL to facilitate cholesterol efflux that is important rather than simply HDL-C levels ( 73 ). Assays have
