Utility of Advanced Lipoprotein Testing in Clinical Practice
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, risk, ldl, lipoprotein, cholesterol, apolipoprotein, non-hdl-c, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, particle, number, study


72 ). These results indicate that it is the functional capability of HDL to facilitate cholesterol efflux that is important rather than simply HDL-C levels ( 73 ). Assays have also been developed to measure the ability of HDL to protect LDL from oxidation ( 74 ). The ability of HDL to protect LDL from oxidation is decreased in patients with cardiovascular disease and in patients with inflammatory disorders who are at increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease ( 74 , 75 ). Similar to studies of cholesterol efflux these observations suggest that HDL function is a key variable. Unfortunately assays to measure cholesterol efflux or the ability of HDL to prevent oxidation are not available outside of research laboratories. APOLIPOPROTEIN B All of the pro-atherogenic lipoproteins (chylomicron remnants, VLDL remnants, IDL, LDL, and Lp(a)) carry one apolipoprotein B on their surface such that apolipoprotein B levels reflect the total number of atherogenic particles ( 76 ). Most of the circulating apolipoprotein B is associated with LDL particles ( 76 ). However, the contribution of very high Lp(a) levels to total Apo B levels can be substantial (Estimated Apo B in LDL/VLDL = Apo B mg/dl – (Lp(a) mg/dl x 0.16) ( 77 ). Apo B levels measured in the non-fasting state are similar to fasting values. The levels of apolipoprotein B, LDL-C, and non-HDL-C are strongly correlated. Almost all studies have shown that apolipoprotein B levels are more closely associated with ASCVD than LDL-C levels and the general consensus is that apolipoprotein B levels are a more accurate predictor of ASCVD events than LDL-C ( 41 , 42 , 65 , 78-85 ). Apolipoprotein B levels are equivalent to non-HDL-C levels in predicting ASCVD but when these measurements are discordant apolipoprotein B levels are a more accurate predictor of ASCVD. There are two large meta-analyses that have compared the ability of non-HDL-C and apolipoprotein B to predict ASCVD. The Emerging Risks Factor Collaboration examined 22 long term perspective studies with 91,307 subjects with a large number of events (4499) ( 28 ). In this study there were no differences in the ability of non-HDL-C or apolipoprotein B to predict ASCVD. The hazard ratio was increased approximately 2-fold in the upper quantile of non-HDL-C and apolipoprotein B compared to the lowest quantile. In contrast, another meta-analysis of 12 studies (not all perspective) with 233,455 subjects and 22,950 events reported slightly
