Utility of Advanced Lipoprotein Testing in Clinical Practice
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, risk, ldl, lipoprotein, cholesterol, apolipoprotein, non-hdl-c, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, particle, number, study


measurements of apolipoprotein B would not be very helpful ( 81 , 93 ). Similarly, the Emerging Risk Factor Collaboration group and the Women’s Health Study also examined the effect of adding apolipoprotein B results on the C-statistic and found very little change ( 83 , 94 ). Additionally, the Emerging Risk Factor Collaboration modelled the effect of measuring apolipoprotein B levels on patient classification using the NCEP III guidelines. In 15,436 subjects with a cardiovascular risk of 10-20% over the next 10 years the addition of apolipoprotein B measurements would result in a change in classification in only 488 subjects (3.2%) ( 94 ). Most subjects would be moved to a lower risk category (334) and a very small number would be reclassified to a higher risk category (154). These results coupled with the C-statistic results noted above suggest that the routine addition of apolipoprotein measurements in primary prevention patients would likely not have a major effect in altering patient management. In patients treated with statins a meta-analysis has compared the association of apolipoprotein B and non-HDL-C levels on the risk of major cardiovascular events ( 46 ). While both on-treatment decreases in apolipoprotein B and non-HDL-C levels were associated with a decrease in cardiovascular events the strength of the association was somewhat greater for non-HDL-C than apolipoprotein B ( Table 3 ) ( 46 ). A meta-analysis of seven randomized controlled trials comprising more than 60 000 study participants has also shown that changes in LDL-C, apoB100, and non-HDL-C all predicted similar CVD risk reduction after 1-year of statin therapy (-20, -24, and -20% risk reduction, respectively) ( 95 ). Finally, in another meta-analysis of 25 trials (12 statin, 4 fibrate, 5 niacin, 2 simvastatin-ezetimibe, 1 ileal bypass, 1 intensive vs. standard statin) the authors concluded that “across all drug classes, apo B decreases did not consistently improve risk prediction over LDL cholesterol and non-HDL cholesterol decreases” ( 89 ). Thus, in patients treated for hyperlipidemia the measurement of apolipoprotein B levels also does not appear to significantly contribute to the management of these patients. Table 3. Risk of Cardiovascular Disease in Statin Treated Patients (Hazard Ratios) View in own window Quartiles Non-HDL-C Apo B 1 1 (reference) 1 (reference) 2 1.12 1.05 3 1.17 1.12 4 1.42 1.33 Another approach to addressing the question of the importance of routinely measuring apolipoprotein levels is to determine if measuring
