Utility of Advanced Lipoprotein Testing in Clinical Practice
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, risk, ldl, lipoprotein, cholesterol, apolipoprotein, non-hdl-c, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, particle, number, study


1 (reference) 2 1.12 1.05 3 1.17 1.12 4 1.42 1.33 Another approach to addressing the question of the importance of routinely measuring apolipoprotein levels is to determine if measuring apolipoprotein B level will alter our therapeutic approach. While most guidelines have not included apolipoprotein B goals there are guidelines that do recommend apolipoprotein B levels. For example, the National Lipid Association recommends in very high risk patients a LDL-C < 70mg/dL, a non-HDL-C < 100mg/dL, and an apolipoprotein B level < 80mg/dL ( 96 ). In an analysis by Sathiyakumar and colleagues if the LDL-C was < 70mg/dL and the non-HDL-C was < 100mg/dL (over 9000 subjects) fewer than 2% of the patients had an apolipoprotein B level > 80mg/dL ( 45 ). These results indicate that measuring apolipoprotein B levels will not identify a large number of patients that are not meeting the proposed goals. In summary while measurement of apolipoprotein B levels is an excellent and likely the best predictor of ASCVD events whether it provides a substantial amount of information above and beyond what is provided by LDL-C and non-HDL-C and standard risk factors to justify routine apolipoprotein B measurement remains to be definitively determined. Whether routinely measuring apolipoprotein B levels will alter management in a sufficient number of patients to justify the extra expense of measuring apolipoprotein B needs to be rigorously studied. As noted earlier many of the patients with elevated apolipoprotein B levels relative to non-HDL-C levels are obese, diabetic, and have the metabolic syndrome and it is likely that clinicians will recognize based on non-lipid risk factors that these individuals are at high risk for ASCVD. There will of course be individual patients where measuring apolipoprotein levels will be helpful in determining treatment. For example, in patients thought to have Familial Dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type 3 disease) the non-HDL-C/apolipoprotein B ratio is a simple test for selecting patients with mixed hyperlipidemia that may have Familial Dysbetalipoproteinemia for additional studies ( 97 ). Similarly, in patients with high cholesterol levels and biliary obstruction a low apolipoprotein B level suggests the presence of lipoprotein X, an atypical lipoprotein particle containing unesterified cholesterol and phospholipids but not apolipoprotein B ( 3 , 98 ). LDL PARTICLE NUMBER The cholesterol content of LDL is not constant and can vary greatly between individuals and can change over time in a particular individual. For example, treatments that lower serum triglyceride
