Utility of Advanced Lipoprotein Testing in Clinical Practice
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, risk, ldl, lipoprotein, cholesterol, apolipoprotein, non-hdl-c, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, particle, number, study


The cholesterol content of LDL is not constant and can vary greatly between individuals and can change over time in a particular individual. For example, treatments that lower serum triglyceride levels can increase the size and cholesterol content of LDL ( 99 , 100 ). Measuring LDL particle number is an alternative way to quantitate LDL burden. While LDL-C and LDL particle number are strongly correlated there are some individuals who are discordant (relatively high LDL-C and relatively low LDL particle number or relatively low LDL-C and relatively high particle number). In patients with elevated triglycerides and/or low HDL levels the LDL-C levels are relatively low compared to LDL particle number ( 101 , 102 ). Studies have shown that LDL particle number is more strongly associated with ASCVD than LDL-C, particularly when the levels of LDL-C and LDL particle number are discordant ( 43 , 83 , 103-106 ). Whether LDL particle number is a better predictor than non-HDL-C is discussed below. Several studies have compared the ability of LDL particle number and non-HDL-C to predict ASCVD. In the Framingham Offspring Study there were 3,066 subjects with 431 events and LDL particle number was measured by NMR ( 103 ). In this study LDL particle number was more strongly associated with ASCVD than non-HDL-C (Hazard ratio 1.28 (CI 1.17-1.39) for LDL particle number vs. 1.21 (CI 1.10-1.33) for non HDL-C) ( 103 ). In the Women’s Health Study there were 27,673 subjects with 1015 events and LDL particle number was also measured by NMR ( 83 ). In this study the association of LDL particle number and non-HDL-C with ASCVD was very similar with the hazard ratio of 2.51 for LDL particle number and 2.52 for non-HDL-C ( 83 ). Finally, in the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis subjects (n = 6693) no benefit of measuring LDL particle number compared to routine lipid measurements on predicting ASCVD could be demonstrated ( 107 ). While there are several studies that have examined patients discordant for apolipoprotein B levels and non-HDL-C levels (see section on apolipoprotein B) only two studies have examined discordance between LDL particle number and non-HDL-C. In the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis there were 6,814 men and women and LDL particle number was measured by NMR ( 108 ). The endpoint in this study was carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) and coronary artery calcium (CAC), surrogate markers for ASCVD events.
