Utility of Advanced Lipoprotein Testing in Clinical Practice
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, risk, ldl, lipoprotein, cholesterol, apolipoprotein, non-hdl-c, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, particle, number, study


LDL particle number was measured by NMR ( 108 ). The endpoint in this study was carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) and coronary artery calcium (CAC), surrogate markers for ASCVD events. When there was discordance between LDL particle number and non-HDL-C, LDL particle number was more closely associated with CIMT and CAC but the differences were very modest ( 108 ). In the Women’s Health Study subjects with high LDL particle number measured by NMR that was discordant with non-HDL cholesterol levels were at increased risk of CHD (hazard ratio 1.13 CI 0.99-1.29) ( 91 ). In patients on-treatment there is only a single study comparing LDL particle number and non-HDL-C. In the Heart Protection study 20,536 subjects were treated with simvastatin or placebo and LDL particle number was measured by NMR ( 88 ). The predictive strength of LDL particle number and non-HDL-C was very similar in both the placebo group and the statin group indicating no advantage of measuring LDL particle number ( 88 ). It should also be noted that while LDL particle number and Apo B levels are highly correlated there are circumstances when they are discordant ( 109 ). High LDL particle number relative to Apo B levels was seen with insulin resistance, smaller LDL particle size, increased systemic inflammation, and low circulating LDL-C and HDL-C levels while high Apo B levels relative to LDL particle number was seen with larger LDL particle size and elevated levels of lipoprotein(a) ( 109 ). In summary, while measurement of LDL particle number is an excellent predictor of ASCVD events whether it provides a substantial amount of information beyond what is provided by non-HDL-C and standard risk factors to justify routine LDL particle measurement remains to be definitively determined. Lp(a) MEASUREMENT Lp(a) is an LDL particle with a single apolipoprotein B with a plasminogen like protein, apoprotein (a), attached by a disulfide bond ( 110-112 ). Apoprotein (a) is genetically very heterogeneous due to variations in molecular weight (from 300-800 kDa) due to differences in the number of Kringle repeats ( 110-112 ). The plasma levels of Lp(a) vary greatly with undetectable levels in some individuals (0.1mg/dl) and very high levels in others (>200mg/dl) ( 113 ). Individuals with genetically determined small apoprotein (a) have high plasma levels of Lp(a) whereas individuals with genetically determined large apoprotein (a) have low levels ( 110-112 ). The size of the apo(a)
