Utility of Advanced Lipoprotein Testing in Clinical Practice
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, risk, ldl, lipoprotein, cholesterol, apolipoprotein, non-hdl-c, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, particle, number, study


genetically determined small apoprotein (a) have high plasma levels of Lp(a) whereas individuals with genetically determined large apoprotein (a) have low levels ( 110-112 ). The size of the apo(a) isoforms is inherited with an individual having two distinct apo(a) isoforms derived from apo(a) genes from their mother and father ( 113 ). This results in individuals having two different size Lp(a) particles in the serum. It is estimated that up to 90% of the variation in Lp(a) levels is determined genetically with environment having minimal effects. Lp(a) levels are very stable within an individual over their lifespan. Inflammation and renal disease increase while severe liver disease decrease Lp(a) levels ( 75 , 114 ). Approximately 20% of subjects have Lp(a) levels greater than 50mg/dL and 30% have Lp(a) greater than 30mg/dL. Ethnicity greatly affects Lp(a) levels ( 114 ). The levels of Lp(a) in Blacks are approximately 2-3-fold higher than in Caucasians, Caucasians and Chinese have similar levels, South Asians have levels between Blacks and Caucasians, and Mexicans have levels lower than Caucasians (Blacks> South Asians > Caucasians/Chinese > Mexicans) ( 114 ). Lp(a) levels do not correlate with LDL-C, non-HDL-C, apolipoprotein B, or LDL particle number. Several large meta-analyses have demonstrated an association of Lp(a) levels with ASCVD. For example, a meta-analysis by the Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration looked at the individual records of 126,634 participants in 36 prospective studies with 9,336 CHD outcomes, 1,903 ischemic strokes, and 8,114 nonvascular deaths ( 115 ). They found a continuous association of Lp(a) with the risk of ASCVD that was not greatly affected by adjustment for other lipid levels or other established risk factors. In an analysis of 31 prospective studies with 9,870 events Bennet et al reported an odds ratio of 1.45 for individuals in the top third of Lp(a) compared with those in the bottom third ( 116 ). Of note adjustment for lipid levels and other established risk factors also had little effect on this association indicating that Lp(a) is an independent risk factor ( 116 ). Additionally, in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia elevated Lp(a) levels markedly increases the risk of the development of ASCVD ( 117 ). Mendelian randomization studies and basic science studies including experiments in animals that overexpress apoprotein (a) have suggested that increases in Lp(a) are not just a risk factor for atherosclerosis but causative for atherosclerosis ( 111 , 112 , 118-120
