Utility of Advanced Lipoprotein Testing in Clinical Practice
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, risk, ldl, lipoprotein, cholesterol, apolipoprotein, non-hdl-c, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, particle, number, study


Lp(a) measurements would result in a change in classification in 1,517 subjects (9.8%). Most subjects would be moved to a lower risk category (962) and a number of subjects would be reclassified to a higher risk category (555) ( 94 ). These results coupled with the above findings suggest that the addition of Lp(a) measurements in patients might be useful in selected patients. The potential benefits of measuring Lp(a) levels will become clearer when drugs are developed that specifically lower Lp(a) levels and clinical trials determining the effect of these drugs on ASCVD outcomes are completed. Without definitive data from randomized outcome trials demonstrating that specifically lowering Lp(a) levels results in a reduction in ASCVD events the advantages of measuring and treating Lp(a) will remain uncertain. Therapy to specifically lower Lp(a) is under development and hopefully in the near future will provide a clear demonstration of the benefits of monitoring and treating Lp(a) levels ( 134 , 135 ). In the meantime, many experts would recommend measuring Lp(a) levels once in all patients ( 136-138 ) while other experts would measure Lp(a) in selected patients ( Table 4 ) ( 65 , 139 , 140 ). Elevations in Lp(a) will stimulate more aggressive lowering of LDL levels and the consideration of adding drugs that lower Lp(a) such as PCSK9 inhibitors ( 141 ). Table 4. WHEN TO MEASURE LP(a) LEVELS View in own window Patients with unexplained premature CHD Patients with a strong family history of premature CHD Patients with a family history of elevated Lp(a) levels (Cascade screening) Patients with resistance to LDL-C lowering with statins Patients with rapid unexplained progression of atherosclerosis Patients with familial hypercholesterolemia Patients with aortic valvular stenosis of uncertain cause Patients with intermediate risk profiles? Standard measurements of LDL-C (either calculated or measured) include Lp(a) cholesterol ( 139 , 142 ). When Lp(a) levels are very high they can make a significant contribution to LDL-C levels. Similarly, when LDL-C levels are markedly reduced with treatment the LDL-C measured may include a significant contribution from Lp(a). The contribution of Lp(a) cholesterol to calculated LDL-C is approximately mg/dL Lp(a) x 0.3 (when both are expressed in mg/dL) ( 139 , 142 ). For example, if the Lp(a) level is 100mg/dL one can estimate that approximately 30mg/dL of the calculated LDL level is due to Lp(a). Note that these estimates are not precise and the percent cholesterol
