Utility of Advanced Lipoprotein Testing in Clinical Practice
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, risk, ldl, lipoprotein, cholesterol, apolipoprotein, non-hdl-c, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, particle, number, study


Lp(a) level is 100mg/dL one can estimate that approximately 30mg/dL of the calculated LDL level is due to Lp(a). Note that these estimates are not precise and the percent cholesterol per mg Lp(a) particle can vary from 5.8% to 57.3% ( 143 ). Assays are underdevelopment to accurately determine the cholesterol in Lp(a) to allow for more accurate determinations of LDL-C levels ( 143 ). Accurate measurement of Lp(a) represents a formidable technical challenge, unequalled in the world of biochemical diagnostics ( 139 , 144 ). This is due to the extreme length polymorphism of apo(a), whose size can vary over five-fold. Currently Lp(a) assays are not well standardized and there can be considerable variation between commercial assays. One study of 6 different assays found a variation from reference material of −8% to +22% ( 145 ) and another study found considerable variation in Lp(a) levels between 5 different assays ( 146 ). Hopefully more accurate assays using monoclonal antibodies will become widely available ( 147 ). Measuring Lp(a) mass (in mg/dL), as it is frequently done in commercial clinical labs, will not allow for a reliable and consistent way to convert Lp(a) concentration to nmol/l. For example, 50 mg/dL of Lp(a) with 40 kringle IV type 2 repeats is actually fewer particles than 30 mg/dL of an Lp(a) with 15 kringle IV type repeats. The solution is the adoption of an isoform-independent method that equally identifies each Lp(a) particle ( 139 ). Such a method is currently approximated by the use of a spectrum of isoform-specific calibrators, and providers should, if possible, have Lp(a) measured using this method and reported as concentration in nmol/l. CONCLUSIONS While advanced lipoprotein measurements can provide additional insights and information it is not clear that for the evaluation and treatment of the vast majority of our patients that these measurements are necessary. Notably, the guidelines on the evaluation and treatment of hyperlipidemia put forth by a variety of different expert panels and organizations do not require advanced lipoprotein measurements. It is also the author’s opinion that at this time the routine use of advanced lipoprotein testing in clinical practice is not required and that LDL-C and non-HDL-C levels provide sufficient information to guide evaluation and treatment for most patients. Until clinical trial data demonstrate the superiority of utilizing advanced lipoprotein testing on clinical outcomes it is hard to recommend the routine use of such
