Reminder of important clinical lesson
KEYWORDS: tyrosinaemia, liver, renal, neurological, treatment, type, crises, nitisinone, tyrosine, tyrosinaemia type, presentation, case, neurological crises, posturing, child


Reminder of important clinical lesson Case report Unusual first presentation of a metabolic disorder Claire emma strauss,1 Gayle Hann2 1paediatrics, North Middlesex Summary his nose, his tonsils were erythematous and coated London, UK irritability and ’back arching’. on examination, he anal erythema with blood in the nappy. Neurolog- 2paediatric emergency demonstrated profound opisthotonic posturing and had ical examination revealed no focal signs although tonsillitis. He had a full septic screen and was treated axial tone would intermittently increase during with broad spectrum antibiotics. Blood tests showed episodes of opisthotonus. London, UK a transaminitis, raised alpha fetoprotein and deranged clotting. the clotting abnormalities and raised alpha Correspondence to inveSTigaTionS Dr Claire emma strauss, fetoprotein persisted post discharge and an abdominal Initial investigations included inflammatory claire. strauss@ nhs. net ultrasound showed steatosis, splenomegaly and bilateral markers and basic set of bloods. increased renal cortical reflectivity. a full metabolic A full septic screen was performed prior to initi- accepted 4 March 2019 screen revealed type 1 tyrosinaemia. the opisthotonic ation of treatment for meningitis. Blood and cere- posturing, a major part of this child’s presentation, bro-spinal fluid (CSF) cultures were negative. As has not been reported as a presenting feature of part of a neurological work up CT head and EEG tyrosinaemia. It was part of a ’neurological crisis’ caused were both normal. Liver function tests showed a by tyrosinaemia and exacerbated by the intercurrent significant transaminitis and raised alpha fetopro- infection. these are known to occur in tyrosinaemia but tein (6691). In view of this, a clotting screen was not commonly as the first presentation. this represents done which showed an international normalised an unusual presentation of a metabolic condition which, ratio (INR) of 1.7 (this later rose to 1.96). For without intervention, can lead to severe hepatic, renal further results, see table 1. and neurodevelopmental complications. As further investigation of the deranged liver function, a liver ultrasound was performed. This was reported as normal but a repeat ultrasound at a BaCkground tertiary centre showed steatosis, splenomegaly and The initial presentation was dramatic and bilateral increased renal cortical reflectivity. uncommon (severe opisthotonic posturing). The final diagnosis in this case was completely differenTial diagnoSiS unexpected at the initial presentation and during Tonsillitis was clinically evident and it was postu- acute treatment. lated that the posturing may be an attempt to keep An important factor in making a critical diagnosis the airway open in
