Reminder of important clinical lesson
KEYWORDS: tyrosinaemia, liver, renal, neurological, treatment, type, crises, nitisinone, tyrosine, tyrosinaemia type, presentation, case, neurological crises, posturing, child


clinically evident and it was postu- acute treatment. lated that the posturing may be an attempt to keep An important factor in making a critical diagnosis the airway open in view of extremely large tonsils. was persistent follow-up of abnormal Liver Func- Meningoencephalitis was suspected due to the tion Tests (LFTs) and clotting. irritability and abnormal neurology. The diagnosis is a rare one but failure to make Seizure activity was a considered differential for it could have resulted in severe morbidity for the the unusual posturing. child and potentially future children in the family. Gastro-oesophageal reflux has been known to The initial symptom was a rare first presentation cause significant back arching, although this was of the underlying disorder. extremely severe. TreaTmenT CaSe preSenTaTion The patient was initially treated for tonsillitis with An 8-month-old boy presented to hospital with a oral antibiotics. On repeat presentation they were history of 2 days of fever, cough, coryza, reduced treated for meningoencephalitis with ceftriaxone oral intake, ‘back arching’ and some blood in the and acyclovir. Intravenous 0.9% saline and 5% nappy. He had sustained friction burns on his arms dextrose were started due to poor oral fluid intake. from rolling around on the carpet in distress. Subsequently, treatment with antireflux agents He was the first child of distantly consanguin- was trialled. On finding a raised INR, vitamin eous, Turkish parents. At the time of presentation, © BMJ publishing Group K was started and ultimately, following defini- his mother was pregnant with her second child. He Limited 2019. No commercial tive diagnosis, he was commenced on nitisinone re-use. see rights and had been born at term and treated for suspected (2-[2-nitro-4-trifluoromethylbenzoyl]cyclohex- permissions. published by BMJ. neonatal sepsis but otherwise had an unremark- ane-1,3-dione) and dietary management. able past medical history. He had been thriving and To cite: strauss Ce, there were no concerns regarding his development. Hann G. BMJ Case Rep 2019;12:e226716. On examination, he was extremely irritable with ouTCome and follow-up doi:- intermittent opisthotonic posturing while awake The patient was sent to a tertiary hepatic centre for 226716 and asleep. He had some bloody crusting around further investigation of liver dysfunction. A repeat Strauss CE, Hann G. BMJ Case Rep 2019;12:e226716. doi: 1 reminder of important clinical lesson Table 1 Blood results during and following acute admission normal 11/3 12/3 13/3 15/3 22/7 INR 1.6 1.7 1.3 2.1 PT (s) 11–16 22 17.3
