Reminder of important clinical lesson
KEYWORDS: tyrosinaemia, liver, renal, neurological, treatment, type, crises, nitisinone, tyrosine, tyrosinaemia type, presentation, case, neurological crises, posturing, child


treatment can start as soon as possible. of liver failure. There is regular multidisciplinary follow up to can be prevented. It is also essential that neurological crises such ensure adherence to treatment. as the one described in this case are recognised as, untreated, Consistent with tyrosinaemia, he also unfortunately devel- they can result in respiratory failure and death.7 oped a renal tubulopathy with rickets. There were some initial In retrospect, there are several features of this case which issues with nitisinone and diet compliance which were addressed should, in similar presentations, result in tyrosinaemia being and resulted in good tyrosine levels with normalised liver func- considered as part of the differential diagnosis. These include tion and appearance on ultrasound. Unfortunately since then the consanguineous parents and a multisystem disorder with liver family’s compliance has deteriorated meaning that the child’s and coagulation dysfunction, a significantly raised alpha fetopro- health is at significant risk. tein and unexplained neurological symptoms in a young child. weeks’ pregnant. The baby was tested postnatally and does not below. have tyrosinaemia. diSCuSSion Neurological crises are a well-known feature of tyrosinaemia and may include opisthotonic posturing and irritability. In this case, these were the first symptom of tyrosinaemia to be identified. The presentation was unusual and at the time was not recognised as a feature of tyrosinaemia. As such there was a delay in making the diagnosis until repeated blood tests continued to show abnormalities in liver function and clotting function which were further investigated. Tyrosinaemia type 1 is a recessively inherited deficiency of fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase (FAH) resulting in accumulation of toxic tyrosine metabolites. including fumarylacetoacetate (FAA). This acts as an alkylating agent reducing intracellular glutathione and resulting in alterations and apoptosis of hepato- figure 1 The biochemistry of tyrosinaemia type 1 (adapted cytes.1 2 Due to tissue specificity of enzyme expression the from Jacobs et al).5 2 strauss Ce, Hann G. BMJ Case Rep 2019;12:e226716. doi: reminder of important clinical lesson History mechanism of development is uncertain but it is seen to improve Worldwide the incidence of tyrosinaemia type 1 is 1 in 100 000 with nitisinone treatment or liver transplant.6 9 individuals. Parental consanguinity increases the likelihood of a Neurocognitive impairment has been found on follow-up of child having a recessively inherited disorder such as tyrosinaemia children with tyrosinaemia type 1, even when treated appropri- type 1. Due to the causative genetics, there may be a
