Reminder of important clinical lesson
KEYWORDS: tyrosinaemia, liver, renal, neurological, treatment, type, crises, nitisinone, tyrosine, tyrosinaemia type, presentation, case, neurological crises, posturing, child


of child having a recessively inherited disorder such as tyrosinaemia children with tyrosinaemia type 1, even when treated appropri- type 1. Due to the causative genetics, there may be a family ately. Again the mechanism is unclear.6 13 14 history of the disorder. There are a few regions with a higher incidence of tyrosinaemia than elsewhere. In Norway, it is 1 in diagnostic investigations 60 000 and in Quebec, Canada 1 in 16 000 people are affected.6 In addition to the hepatic and renal investigations detailed above It is likely that the child will be young at the time of presenta- the definitive diagnosis of tyrosinaemia type 1 is made by detec- tion, most commonly under 6 months (the acute form) but up to tion of high levels of succinylacetone in blood or urine. This can 2 years (the chronic form). There may be a background of failure also be put to use for antenatal testing as amniotic fluid can also to thrive which can occur in both the acute and chronic forms of contain succinylacetone. tyrosinaemia type 1.8 If a familial genetic mutation has been identified this may be detected through genetic testing.6 9 Hepatic features Children can develop acute liver disease from a few weeks of Management age.9 This may be identifiable due to reduced liver synthetic Treatment of tyrosinaemia first requires addressing any acute function with a coagulopathy (this may be present even without features of illness, for example correcting a coagulopathy or other signs of liver dysfunction),10 hypoalbuminaemia and hypo- severe hyponatraemia. For neurological crises, an infusion glycaemia. There may be palpable hepatomegaly. of glucose is important, along with saline in view of hypona- Liver function tests are likely to show a transaminitis and traemia.6 9 a significantly raised (up to 10x normal) alpha feto-protein level.6 11 This on its own is not diagnostic and neither is the diet direct hyperbilirubinaemia which may also be present. Long-term management includes dietary alterations to ensure low serum levels of tyrosine and the toxic metabolites which renal features accumulate in the disease as a result of FAH deficiency. Unfortu- Damage to the renal proximal tubular cells results in a fanconi- nately, in tyrosinaemia type 1, dietary restriction alone does not syndrome-type tubular disorder characterised by aminoacid- prevent long-term hepatic, renal or neurological damage. uria, glucosuria, phosphaturia and/or renal tubular acidosis. Although it is essential to have a diet with
