Reminder of important clinical lesson
KEYWORDS: tyrosinaemia, liver, renal, neurological, treatment, type, crises, nitisinone, tyrosine, tyrosinaemia type, presentation, case, neurological crises, posturing, child


not syndrome-type tubular disorder characterised by aminoacid- prevent long-term hepatic, renal or neurological damage. uria, glucosuria, phosphaturia and/or renal tubular acidosis. Although it is essential to have a diet with significantly reduced This has a variable onset and severity but is usually present by tyrosine and phenylalanine (the precursor of tyrosine), it is also 6 months. The renal dysfunction results in hypophosphatemic important to need a small amount of complete protein to avoid rickets, hypertension and chronic renal failure. It is postulated continuing catabolism and stimulation of tyrosine catabolic that succinylacetone is the tyrosine metabolite responsible for pathway. The diet is therefore supplemented with a tyrosine the renal tubular damage. On imaging it is also possible to see and phenylalanine free amino acid formula. Phenylalanine levels kidney enlargement, hyperechogenicity and nephrocalcinosis.12 sometimes fall so low on this diet that it requires supplementa- tion to maintain normal levels (above 20 micromol/L).15 neurological features Mitchell et al7 described neurological crises in their population nitisinone of children with tyrosinaemia type 1 as ‘The presence of paral- Nitisinone is a pharmacological treatment which works at the ysis or painful dysesthesia (in patients more than a year old), point of conversion of p-hydroxyphenylpyruvate to homogen- with or without hypertonic posturing’. They reported crises in tisic acid, which is an early step in the pathway of tyrosine metab- 40% of their patient population, with hypertonia in 76% of olism. It thereby minimises formation of toxic metabolites later the crises. This 'was typically axial and extensor and ranged in in the pathway. The biochemical response to nitisinone starts severity from slight resistance to neck flexion to opisthotonic within 24 hours (succinylacetone level normalisations) although posturing. It intensified episodically and sometimes persisted some results, such as alpha fetoprotein, take much longer. A clin- during sleep'.6 Apart from the age of the patients this accurately ical response is usually seen within a week.9 describes what was seen in our patient. The dose of nitisinone should be adjusted to ensure liver func- There is poorly localised pain usually in the legs and some- tion, clotting and renal function are normal as well as succinylac- times in the abdomen. There is axial and extensor hypertonia etone levels in urine ideally being undetectable or at least within and weakness which may be associated with hyponatraemia and the normal range.9 hypertension. It is felt to represent an acute peripheral neurop- Treatment with nitisione
