Reminder of important clinical lesson
KEYWORDS: tyrosinaemia, liver, renal, neurological, treatment, type, crises, nitisinone, tyrosine, tyrosinaemia type, presentation, case, neurological crises, posturing, child


undetectable or at least within and weakness which may be associated with hyponatraemia and the normal range.9 hypertension. It is felt to represent an acute peripheral neurop- Treatment with nitisione renders neurological crises almost athy with a demyelinating pathology.4 obsolete. Larochelle et al16 followed 78 patients with tyros- These crises may be precipitated by a mild illness. They could inaemia and found that there were no neurological crises iden- also be associated with vomiting and ileus-type picture.8 In the tified in patients on NTBC within 5731 months while 184 most extreme forms, muscle weakness may result in children occurred in those not on treatment during a total of 1312 requiring ventilation due to respiratory muscle failure. In this months. Neurological crises are known to recur when NTBC way, the crises may be fatal. treatment is stopped. Schlump et al,17 Önenli Mungan et al18 In addition, the hyponatraemia which can be associated with and Yazici et al19 all describe cases of children developing severe neurological crises, may result in seizures if severe. neurological crises only 1 month after stopping nitisinone Liver disease is improved significantly with early initiation other features of treatment by nitisinone. if nitisinone is started pre-develop- Cardiomyopathy is sometimes identified in tyrosinaemia type ment of liver disease it is likely to prevent liver dysfunction all 1. It is usually detected incidentally as it is asymptomatic. The together. In addition, the risk of hepatic malignancy is reduced Strauss CE, Hann G. BMJ Case Rep 2019;12:e226716. doi: 3 reminder of important clinical lesson by around 90% if nitisinone is started in early infancy and funding the authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any continued without interruption.20 21 funding agency in the public, commercial or not-for-profit sectors. In addition to hepatic benefits, nitisinone has a positive effect Competing interests None declared. on renal dysfunction. Tubular function is normalised acutely and patient consent for publication parental/guardian consent obtained. chronically although the effectiveness required early initiation provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. of treatment.22 It is recognised that without nitisinone the above, life limiting
