NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: aprepitant, nausea, chemotherapy, vomiting, nausea vomiting, cancer, fosaprepitant, pubmed pmid, pmid, pubmed, patients, liver, injury, adverse, liver injury


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Aprepitant. [Updated 2024 Feb 28]. Bookshelf URL: Aprepitant Updated: February 28, 2024. OVERVIEW Introduction Aprepitant and its prodrug fosaprepitant are antiemetic agents that are used to prevent cancer chemotherapy related nausea and vomiting. Both aprepitant and fosaprepitant are associated with a low rate of serum enzyme elevations after treatment which are similar to rates with comparator therapies, and neither agent has been clearly linked to cases of clinically apparent liver injury with jaundice. Background Aprepitant (a pre’ pi tant) is a substance P antagonist that blocks the neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor, which is found in the central nervous system and induces the vomiting reflex when activated by its ligand, substance P. Aprepitant has been shown to inhibit both acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with cancer chemotherapy and surgical procedures. It appears to act synergistically with serotonin type 3 (5-HT3) receptor blockers. Aprepitant was approved for use in the United States in 2003 and its prodrug fosaprepitant in 2008. Current indications are for prevention of nausea and vomiting after highly or moderately emetogenic chemotherapy regimens. Aprepitant is available as 40, 80 and 125 mg capsules generically and under the brand name Emend. The typical dose regimen of aprepitant for prevention of nausea and vomiting after cancer chemotherapy is 125 mg given one hour before chemotherapy in combination with a 5-HT3 receptor blocker and dexamethasone (12 mg orally), followed by a lower dose of aprepitant (80 mg) on days 2 and 3 along with a lower dose of dexamethasone (8 mg) orally on days 2, 3 and 4. Dose regimens are slightly different for children, and for moderately emetogenic chemotherapy regimens, and for prevention of postoperative nausea and is available as a lyophilized powder for reconstitution in single use vials of 150 mg generically and under the brand name Emend. It is given as a single intravenous infusion of 150 mg started 30 minutes before chemotherapy in combination with an intravenous 5-HT3 receptors blocker and dexamethasone given orally in a manner similar to aprepitant. Common side effects of aprepitant and fosaprepitant include fatigue, drowsiness, dizziness, headache, diarrhea and abdominal discomfort. Infusion reactions are not uncommon with fosaprepitant but rarely severe, although cases of anaphylaxis and Stevens Johnson syndrome have been described. Hepatotoxicity patients compared to 4.3% in controls receiving cancer chemotherapy. The aminotransferase elevations
