NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: aprepitant, nausea, chemotherapy, vomiting, nausea vomiting, cancer, fosaprepitant, pubmed pmid, pmid, pubmed, patients, liver, injury, adverse, liver injury


uncommon with fosaprepitant but rarely severe, although cases of anaphylaxis and Stevens Johnson syndrome have been described. Hepatotoxicity patients compared to 4.3% in controls receiving cancer chemotherapy. The aminotransferase elevations were transient, mild-to-moderate in severity, and not associated with symptoms or jaundice. There have been no 2 LiverTox convincing cases of clinically apparent liver injury attributable to aprepitant or fosaprepitant published in the literature and thus, significant liver injury from their use must be exceedingly rare if it occurs at all. Likelihood score: E (unlikely causes of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The serum aminotransferase elevations that occur after aprepitant therapy are more likely due to the chemotherapy rather than the antiemetic. The lack of reported cases of liver injury due to aprepitant and fosaprepitant may be due to the low doses and short duration of typical therapy. Aprepitant is metabolized by and inhibits hepatic CYP 3A4 and has the potential to cause significant drug-drug interactions. It also has significant interactions with warfarin and with hormonal contraceptives. Drug Class: Gastrointestinal Agents, Antiemetic Agents Other Drugs in the Subclass, Substance P/Neurokinin-1 Receptor Antagonists: Fosnetupitant, Rolapitant PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Aprepitant – Generic, Emend® Fosaprepitant – Emend® DRUG CLASS Gastrointestinal Agents COMPLETE LABELING Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE DRUG CAS REGISTRY NO. MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Aprepitant 170729-80-3 C23-H21-F7-N4-O3 Aprepitant 3 ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 28 February 2024 Zimmerman HJ. Antiemetic and prokinetic compounds. Miscellaneous drugs and diagnostic chemicals. In, Zimmerman, HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1999: pp. 721. (Expert review of hepatotoxicity published in 1999 before the availability of NK1 antagonists such as aprepitant). Sharkey KA, McNaughton WK. Gastrointestinal motility and water flux, emesis, and biliary and pancreatic disease. In, Brunton LL, Hilal-Dandan R, Knollman BC, eds. Goodman & Gilman's the pharmacological basis of therapeutics. 13th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2018, pp. 921-44. (Textbook of pharmacology and therapeutics). Navari RM. Aprepitant: a neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2004;4:715–724. PubMed PMID: 15485308. (Review of the structure, pharmacokinetics, metabolism, mechanism of action, efficacy and safety of aprepitant mentions that adverse events may include fatigue, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, and hiccups, but the rate of adverse events is not increased by adding aprepitant to standard preventive regimens). Poli-Bigelli S, Rodrigues-Pereira J, Carides
