NLM Citation: Hoofnagle JH. Ampicillin-Sulbactam. [Updated 2026 Jan
KEYWORDS: liver, injury, liver injury, pmid, pubmed, ampicillin, pubmed pmid, drug, ampicillin-sulbactam, cases, patients, drug-induced, amoxicillin, induced, drug-induced liver


24]. In: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Bookshelf URL: Ampicillin-Sulbactam Updated: January 24, 2026. OVERVIEW The combination of ampicillin and sulbactam sodium combines a third generation aminopenicillin and a beta- lactamase inhibitor and is used to treat serious bacterial infections due to susceptible organisms. Given parenterally, ampicillin and sulbactam can cause mild transient aminotransferase elevations and has been linked to very rare instances of acute liver injury. Background The combination of ampicillin (am" pi sil' in) with sulbactam (sul bak' tam) is a parenterally administered, broad spectrum, potent antibiotic which combines a third generation, aminopenicillin with a beta lactamase inhibitor. This combination was approved for use in the United States in 1986. Current indications are for moderate-to- severe skin and skin structure, intra-abdominal and gynecological infections due to susceptible gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria, including beta-lactamase-producing strains of Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus mirabilis, Bacteroides species, Enterobacter species, Neisseria meningitidis and gonorrhoeae, Moraxella catarrhalis and Acinetobacter calcoaceticus. The combination of ampicillin and sulbactam is available in a parenteral form generically and previously under the name Unasyn. The typical dose is 1.5 to 3 grams intramuscularly or intravenously every 6 hours for 7 to 14 days. Common side effects include diarrhea, nausea and vomiting, fatigue, headache, local reactions and rash. Rare but potentially serious adverse events include hypersensitivity reactions, anaphylaxis, severe skin rash, Stevens Johnson syndrome, C. diffici le diarrhea, neutropenia, aplastic anemia and thrombocytopenic purpura. Hepatotoxicity Parenteral therapy with ampicillin-sulbactam has been reported to cause transient low level elevations in serum aminotransferase levels in 5% to 10% of patients, but these resolve rapidly once the therapy is stopped, and similar rates of enzyme elevations are found with comparable agents. Clinically apparent liver injury due to ampicillin-sulbactam is rare; instances have been published in individual case reports only and the drug is rarely mentioned in large case series or prospective databases on drug-induced liver injury. The reactions have been attributed to ampicillin rather than sulbactam and resemble the hepatic injury that occurs with ampicillin or amoxicillin alone. The liver injury is typically abrupt with short latency period and cholestatic features. Th e onset of hepatic injury may be accompanied by eosinophilia, arthralgias and skin rash, and occasionally with toxic epidermal necrolysis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome. The injury is usually self-limited in course, but fatal
