NLM Citation: Hoofnagle JH. Ampicillin-Sulbactam. [Updated 2026 Jan
KEYWORDS: liver, injury, liver injury, pmid, pubmed, ampicillin, pubmed pmid, drug, ampicillin-sulbactam, cases, patients, drug-induced, amoxicillin, induced, drug-induced liver


of hepatic injury may be accompanied by eosinophilia, arthralgias and skin rash, and occasionally with toxic epidermal necrolysis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome. The injury is usually self-limited in course, but fatal instances have been reported to the sponsor. Author Affiliation: 1 Liver Disease Branch, NIDDK, NIH; Email: . 2 LiverTox Likelihood score: C (probable rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The cause of the liver injury associated with ampicillin use is probably hypersensitivity or allergy. Recurrence of hepatic injury has been reported after ampicillin induced liver injury with reexposure. Outcome and Management In the few cases that have been described, most patients have recovered although recovery has been slow in some cholestatic instances (2 to 6 months) and may be followed by persistent elevations in serum alkaline phosphatase. Acute liver failure and vanishing bile duct syndrome have been reported with aminopenicillin induced liver injury, but not specifically with ampicillin-sulbactam. Corticosteroids have often been used to treat the allergic manifestations of penicillin related immunoallergic hepatitis; while corticosteroid therapy may improve fever and rash promptly, their efficacy in ameliorating the accompanying liver disease has not been shown. Instances of recurrence of liver injury with reexposure to aminopenicillins and recurrence with exposure to cephalosporins have been reported. Patients with aminopenicillin induced hepatitis should avoid reexposure to other penicillins and should take cephalosporins with caution. Drug Class: Antiinfective Agents, Aminopenicillins Other Drugs in the Subclass, Aminopenicillins: Amoxicillin, Amoxicillin-Clavulanate, Ampicillin, Bacampicillin, Pivampicillin PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Ampicillin-Sulbactam – Generic, Unasyn® DRUG CLASS Antiinfective Agents COMPLETE LABELING Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH Ampicillin-Sulbactam 3 CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE DRUG CAS REGISTRY NO MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Ampicillin-Sulbactam 94935-63-4 C16-H19-N3-O4.S C8-H11-N-O5-S ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 24 January 2026 Zimmerman HJ. Penicillins. In, Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams and Wilkins, 1999. p. 595-6. (Expert review of penicillins and liver injury published in 1999; the penicillins commonly lead to hypersensitivity reactions but rarely to liver injury). Moseley RH. Hepatotoxicity of antimicrobials and antifungal agents. In, Kaplowitz N, DeLeve LD, eds. Drug- induced liver disease. 3rd ed. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 2013, pp. 463-82. (Review of hepatotoxicity of antibiotics mentions that penicillins rarely cause liver injury and both hepatocellular and cholestatic patterns of injury have been described). MacDougall C. Penicillins, cephalosporins, and other β-lactam antibiotics. In, Brunton LL, Hilal-Dandan R, Knollman BC, eds.
