©2022THEAUTHORS.ORTHOPAEDICSURGERYPUBLISHEDBYTIANJINHOSPITALANDJOHNWILEY&SONSAUSTRALIA,LTD.
KEYWORDS: synovial, sarcoma, patient, synovial sarcoma, cid, tumor, spinal, lower, soft, figure, vertebral, cord, spinal cord, revealed, tissue


the left lower staining was positive for Vimentin and Caldesmon, with a limb and the right lower limb were 3/5 and 2/5, respectively. remarkably low proliferation index (Ki-67: 30%–40%, P53: Lanzhou,Gansu,China.Email: ZengpingWang,JieWen,ChunzhenRenandLinLiucontributedequallytothisstudy. Received27January2022;accepted13June2022 OrthopaedicSurgery2022;14:2776–2781 (cid:129) DOI: ThisisanopenaccessarticleunderthetermsoftheCreativeCommonsAttribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivsLicense,whichpermitsuseanddistributionin anymedium,providedtheoriginalworkisproperlycited,theuseisnon-commercialandnomodificationsoradaptationsaremade. ORTHOPAEDICSURGERY PARAVERTEBRALSYNOVIALSARCOMAOFTHORACICSPINE VOLUME14(cid:129)NUMBER10(cid:129)OCTOBER,2022 Fig.1 Preoperativeplainradiograph,magneticresonanceimagingandcomputedtomography.PlainfilmsshowedcompressionfracturesofT8inthe anteriorposterior(A)andlateralviews(B);TheMRIshowedT8compressionfracturesthatcourringdorsalspinalcordcompression(T2(C),T1(D)) andsoftmassinright-sidedofparaspinal(E)andbonyerosiononaxial(F);CTshowedcompressionfracturesofT8(G)andosteolyticchangesof T7/8vertebralbodyandrightpedicles(H,I) 20%–30%). Microvascular endothelial cells were weakly muscles and other soft tissues under the periosteum were positive in CD34, SMA, and Calponin. But It was negative stripped off. Four pedicle screws were inserted into the pedi- for S-100, Bcl-2, CKP, EMA, CD99, CD117, Dog-1, Syn, cles,twolevelsaboveT7andtwolevelsbelowT8.Atthesame CgA, and Desmin (Figure 2A–C). The patient received a time,aunilateralrodwasinstalledtostabilizethespine. diagnosis for monophasic synovial sarcoma. The patient The wire guide with a sleeve was passed through the was treated with chemotherapy using cyclophosphamide intervertebralforamenandclungtothesurfaceofthepedicle 40mg every 2weeks. and lamina. Thereafter, the wire-saw was inserted into the sleeve of the wire guide. The wire-guide was removed, and Surgery the pedicles were sawed using the wire-saw placed on the Written informed consent was obtained from the patient superior articular and transverse processes below. After cut- before the surgery. A double-lumen endotracheal tube was ting off, the osteotomy surface was immediately sealed with used to control the patient’s respiration. Thereafter, the patient bonewax,andtherearattachmentwasremoved. wasplaced ina lateraldecubitusposition.Theanteriorandlat- After that, an “S-shape” protective spatula with a sleeve eral components, including nerves, intercostal vessels, large was inserted from the posterior end to the anterior end through blood vessels, and lungs were separated, ligated, or protected theinterfacebetweentheanteriorvertebralbodyandtheanterior under thoracoscopy inserted through the right anterolateral longitudinal ligament. A wire saw was inserted into the sleeve of sixth intercostal space (Figure 3A). The two-sided ribs head the spatula, and one of the ends of the wire was extracted from was resected at the involved segment level using a high-speed the other side of the vertebral body. The spinal cord protective drilloutsidethecostotransversejointofapproximately3–4cm. baffle(SCPB)wasinsertedthroughtheinterfacebetweenthepos- The patient was placed in a prone position, and a dors- terior longitudinal ligament and posterior edge of the vertebral omedial skin incision was made from T5 to T10. Paraspinal body and was lightly pulled backwards SCPB. The wire saw was ORTHOPAEDICSURGERY PARAVERTEBRALSYNOVIALSARCOMAOFTHORACICSPINE VOLUME14(cid:129)NUMBER10(cid:129)OCTOBER,2022 Fig.2 Histopathologyofthetumor.(A)Thetumormainlycompressesshortspindlecellswithdeeplystainednuclei.Fewmitosesareobserved (Hematoxylinandeosin[H&E]);(B)Someareasofvascularproliferationshowlargervesselsarrangedina“staghorn”pericytomapattern; (C)ImmunostainingforCD34revealsmanytumorcellswithpositivestaininginthecytoplasm inserted into SCPB (Figure 3B). Finally, both ends of the wire and easy bleeding. Postoperative pathology and immunohisto- sawwereonthespine’ssameside. chemistry were consistent with preoperative pathology. The The anterior vertebral body was dissected using the pathological examination of the upper and lower edges of the wire saw reciprocating while
