©2022THEAUTHORS.ORTHOPAEDICSURGERYPUBLISHEDBYTIANJINHOSPITALANDJOHNWILEY&SONSAUSTRALIA,LTD.
KEYWORDS: synovial, sarcoma, patient, synovial sarcoma, cid, tumor, spinal, lower, soft, figure, vertebral, cord, spinal cord, revealed, tissue


sawwereonthespine’ssameside. chemistry were consistent with preoperative pathology. The The anterior vertebral body was dissected using the pathological examination of the upper and lower edges of the wire saw reciprocating while keeping the SCPB stable. The vertebralbodywasnegativeaftertheoperation. affected vertebra was pushed approximately 5–10mm for- After the surgery, the patient stayed in bed for ward and meticulously rotated along its longitudinal axis, approximately 7days and was treated with chemotherapy achieving a spinal cord circumferential decompression and a using cyclophosphamide three times. The dosage of cyclo- segmental total en bloc corpectomy1 (Figure 3C). Finally, phosphamide was 40mg every time. Additionally, the dorsoventral reconstruction was carried out using titanium patient received external beam radiation therapy. The dos- mesh filled with the ilium, and the rod on the other side was age was 200Gy per day, and the treatment continued for installed. The surgery took 240 min, and the estimated 6weeks, 5days per week. While walking 2weeks after the amount of bleeding during the operation was 900 ml. No surgery, the patient wore a cervicothoracic brace. The par- neurologicalcomplicationswereobserved. aparesis, hypalgesia, and numbness in the bilateral lower limb of the patient gradually improved. The motor Post-Operation strength of the patient of the left lower limb and the right Motor and somatosensory revealed no change during the sur- lower limb 3months after the surgery and pain palliation gery. The pale red tumor was lying inthe left front of the ver- was 5/5 and 4/5, respectively. The patient performed rou- tebral body, which was 3(cid:1)3(cid:1)3.5 cm3, with adhesion, soft tine life tasks for 8months, although she was diagnosed ORTHOPAEDICSURGERY PARAVERTEBRALSYNOVIALSARCOMAOFTHORACICSPINE VOLUME14(cid:129)NUMBER10(cid:129)OCTOBER,2022 Fig.3 Intraoperativephotographs:Tumortissue infrontofvertebralbodyunderthoracoscopy(A); wiresawwascuttingofftheanteriorvertebral body(B);resectedvertebra(C) Fig.4 Plainradiographand computedphotographat6months aftersurgery:Originalscoliosis increasedinanteriorposterior (A)andlateralviews(B); postoperative3-D(C,D)and transversesections(E,F)showed nofailureinthoracicinterfixation ORTHOPAEDICSURGERY PARAVERTEBRALSYNOVIALSARCOMAOFTHORACICSPINE VOLUME14(cid:129)NUMBER10(cid:129)OCTOBER,2022 with synovial sarcoma in thoracic paraspine. MRI and determine metastasis,9 and the current patient exhibited no PET/CT illustrated no evidence of recurrence, but original metastasis. scoliosis increased without affecting the patient’s daily life (Figure 4). PathologicalFeatures Although most synovial sarcoma does not originate from the synovial tissue, the term arose from similar microscopic fea- Discussion tures to the developing synovium.7 Ultrastructural and immunohistochemistry examination revealed that the tumor ClinicalFeatures has epithelial or spindle cells. Three histologic variations Synovial sarcoma is an uncommon and highly malignant based on the combination of spindle and epithelial tumor tumor accounting for 5%–10% of all soft tissue sarcoma. cells exist, the classic biphasic synovial sarcomas, the mono- Synovial sarcomas are more common in males
