©2022THEAUTHORS.ORTHOPAEDICSURGERYPUBLISHEDBYTIANJINHOSPITALANDJOHNWILEY&SONSAUSTRALIA,LTD.
KEYWORDS: synovial, sarcoma, patient, synovial sarcoma, cid, tumor, spinal, lower, soft, figure, vertebral, cord, spinal cord, revealed, tissue


of spindle and epithelial tumor tumor accounting for 5%–10% of all soft tissue sarcoma. cells exist, the classic biphasic synovial sarcomas, the mono- Synovial sarcomas are more common in males than females. phasic, and the poorly differentiated subtype.10 The biphasic It often occurs in large joints of four extremities in young synovialsarcomasareonlycomposed ofepithelialorspindle, adults—with an average age of 35years, usually in the keen but the monophasic synovial sarcomas are characterized by joint.2 Synovial sarcoma seldom occurs in the spine, rarer in epithelialcellsmixedwithspindlecells.11 the thoracic spine. Cao and colleagues3 reported a patient Many markers can be expressed in the immunohisto- with thoracic paravertebral synovial sarcoma originated from chemical assay of synovial sarcomas, such as CD34, SMA, costovertebral joints and invaded the spinal canal through Calponin, and Bcl-2, S-100. Recently, the molecular study of the intervertebral foramen. No report of thoracic para- synovial sarcoma has achieved preliminary progress. vertebral synovial sarcoma invading the spinal canal causing miRNAs play an essential role in tumor gene diagnosis, but spinal cord compression has been reported. The current miRNAs have some limitations in identifying muscle tumors report is the case of a T7/8 paraspinal synovial sarcoma and synovial sarcoma.12 t(X;18) (p11.2;q11.2) is specific in causinglimbweakness,hypesthesia,anddisabledwalking. the diagnosis of synovial sarcoma, and more than 90% syno- vialsarcomaispresentinthisgene.12 Diagnosis Treatment RadiologicalFeatures The best treatment for synovial sarcoma is radical re- No specific findings other than a soft tissue mass and bone section with negative margins combined with sequential destruction in the adjacent joint was observed on plain film.4 radiotherapy and chemotherapy after the surgery.13 Radio- However, approximately 30% of the soft tissue tumor rev- therapy is considered an effective adjuvant therapy for syno- ealed calcification at the edge of the mass, whose reason is vial sarcoma that can reduce the local recurrence and notverydistinct.Itisrelatedtobleeding,infection,gangrene, prolong the survival period of patients, but it can also and cartilage formation.5T7/8 compression fractures ofbone improve the quality of the patient’s life. Chemotherapy has destruction and visible peripheral soft tissue masses in the no evident effects on synovial sarcoma compared with radio- currentpatientwereobserved. therapy. Chemotherapy can be effective in combination with Because of synovial sarcoma’s varying appearance, plain radiotherapy. The most commonly used chemotherapy regi- films vary as well, with usually no apparent specificity. How- meniscyclophosphamidecombinedwithadriamycine.How- ever,CTscanscouldmakeupforthesedeficiencies.Theaccu- ever, en bloc resection is the ideal treatment modality, which racy and sensitivity of CT scans can reveal subtle calcification isthebasisofchemotherapy. and bone destruction, the relationship
