©2022THEAUTHORS.ORTHOPAEDICSURGERYPUBLISHEDBYTIANJINHOSPITALANDJOHNWILEY&SONSAUSTRALIA,LTD.
KEYWORDS: synovial, sarcoma, patient, synovial sarcoma, cid, tumor, spinal, lower, soft, figure, vertebral, cord, spinal cord, revealed, tissue


specificity. How- meniscyclophosphamidecombinedwithadriamycine.How- ever,CTscanscouldmakeupforthesedeficiencies.Theaccu- ever, en bloc resection is the ideal treatment modality, which racy and sensitivity of CT scans can reveal subtle calcification isthebasisofchemotherapy. and bone destruction, the relationship between soft tissue Because of the complexity and particularity of anatom- tumor and adjacent bone or other tissues, and the invasion of ical structure around the thoracic spine and the synovial sar- vertebral spinal cord volume that cannot be revealed on plain coma’s unique characteristics, it is difficult to operate the films.5 In the current case, both X-ray and CT revealed T8 sarcoma completely. Ross et al. reported a patient with tho- compressionfracturesandsofttissuemassontherightsideof racicsynovialsarcomatreatedbyenblocresection.Although the T7/8 paraspine. CT scan revealed bone destruction in the operations mentioned above can reduce the recurrence T7/8paravertebralbodyandrightsidepedicleofT8. rate and mortality, both block resection and transthoracic Evident patchy calcification at the edge of the vertebral are intralesional resections and surgical trauma, leading to body and spinal cord compression was observed.6 MRI is more bleeding, so that patients need more recovery time and more sensitive and accurate than CT and plain films for higherlocalrecurrence. diagnosis and staging purposes. A total of 40% of synovial sarcoma revealed hyperintense signal on T1WI and interme- AdvantagesofourSurgicalMethod diate signal on T2WI, which may be related to bleeding.7 According to the tumor surgical staging system of Tomita, Synovial sarcoma can be demonstrated with “triple signal the patient was identified as type VI and had undergone a intensity”: hyperintensity, iso intensity, hypointensity.8 In posterior modified total en bloc spondylectomy combined the current case, the mass performed T1 low signal and T2 with anterior endoscopy. Compared with traditional resec- high signal. Preoperative ECT and PET/CT examination can tion,thistechniquehasfiveadvantagesasfollows: ORTHOPAEDICSURGERY PARAVERTEBRALSYNOVIALSARCOMAOFTHORACICSPINE VOLUME14(cid:129)NUMBER10(cid:129)OCTOBER,2022 (1) The large vessels, segmental vessels, nerves and Acknowledgements N othersofttissueororgansinfrontofthevertebralbodywere one. ligated, separated, and protected. This significantly reduced the amount of bleeding during surgery. In this report, the AuthorshipContribution Z operation time was 280min, shorter than that of Melcher engping Wang conducted statistical analysis and drafted et al.,14 who reported at 9.2(cid:3)3.1h (range 5.3–16.4h), and themanuscript. JieWenandChunzhenRenparticipated the intraoperative bleeding was 900ml, which was shorter in the statistical analysis and the writing of the manuscript. than that of 2000ml reported by Demura and colleagues15; Lin Liu conceived the research, participated in the research (2) We detached the paraspinal muscles under periosteum design and coordination. Wen Xue and Yuxin Song partici- that not only significantly reduced intraoperative bleeding pated in clinical research and
