Understanding Ethical Dilemmas in Pediatric Lipidology- Genetic Testing in Youth
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, children, genetic testing, child, screening, treatment, health, family, rights, early, hypercholesterolemia, predictive, benefits, disease


ABSTRACT Over the past 25 years there has been an increasing focus on early identification of individuals at-risk of premature cardiovascular disease (CVD), with the goal of improving outcomes and reducing premature CVD-related events such as myocardial infarction and stroke. In 2011, a National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI) Expert Panel recommended universal cholesterol screening of all children, irrespective of health status and family history, beginning at 10 years-of-age (range 9-11) and, if normal, repeated once between 17 and 20 years-of-age ( 1 ). Children found to have significant hypercholesterolemia are encouraged to adopt a heart-healthy lifestyle and, when appropriate, offered treatment with lipid-lowering medication, starting at 8 years-of-age and older. Research studies have convincingly demonstrated the safety and effectiveness of lipid-lowering medications in reducing risk and improving outcomes in adults, providing indirect support for universally cholesterol screening of children. Data from individuals with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), treated for 20 years with pravastatin starting at a young age, have shown no adverse effects of growth, development, or reproductive function during adulthood. Shared decision-making in this population, however, is complex. Unlike most adults who are capable of making informed healthcare decisions, children have a wide range of developmentally-related intellectual and cognitive function, creating unique challenges in their ability to 1) understand long-term risk and benefit; and 2) make informed decisions regarding testing and medical management. In addition, some children have mental health and developmental disabilities that limit their cognitive abilities and judgement. Furthermore, legal guardians have the moral responsibility and legal right to make decisions on behalf of a minor. In this article, we will discuss 1) privacy, discrimination, and the legal rights of children; 2) ethical considerations and concerns and 3) recommendations for clinicians when providing medical care of children with disorders of lipid and lipoprotein metabolism. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . OVERVIEW OF LIPID AND LIPOPROTEIN DISORDERS IN YOUTH Children with abnormal levels of lipids and lipoproteins are generally identified as result of targeted, universal or occasionally, coincidental testing. Current recommendations for lipid screening of children are listed below. 1. Targeted screening in all children ≥2 years of age in whom: a. One or both biologic parents are known to have hypercholesterolemia or are receiving lipid-lowering medications. b. Who have a family history of premature cardiovascular disease (men <55 years of age and women <65 years
