Understanding Ethical Dilemmas in Pediatric Lipidology- Genetic Testing in Youth
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, children, genetic testing, child, screening, treatment, health, family, rights, early, hypercholesterolemia, predictive, benefits, disease


parents are known to have hypercholesterolemia or are receiving lipid-lowering medications. b. Who have a family history of premature cardiovascular disease (men <55 years of age and women <65 years of age). c. Whose family history is unknown (e.g., children who were adopted). 2. Universal screening of all children 10 years of age (range 9-11), regardless of general health or the presence/absence of CVD risk factors. If normal, repeat screening is recommended at 17-20 years-of-age. Since hypercholesterolemia is often caused by an underlying genetic mutation, such as in FH, cascade screening of biologic relatives is also recommended. Cascade screening involves systematic testing of all first-degree relatives (parents and siblings) of a child with FH, followed by testing of second- and third-degree relatives if any of the first-degree relatives are affected. The most practical approach to cascade screening is biochemical testing of cholesterol, which is inexpensive, readily available and can be performed without the need for fasting. However, up to 25% of family members may be misdiagnosed as being either affected or unaffected when screening is based on cholesterol levels alone. Testing for a known genetic mutation in the family combined with fasting or non-fasting LDL-C levels will yield the most definitive information. While helpful if known, the child’s family history is often unknown, incomplete, or inaccurate. Reliance upon family history alone fails to identify as many as 30-60% of children with significant hypercholesterolemia. For additional information see the Endotext chapters entitled “Guidelines for Screening, Prevention, Diagnosis, and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents” and “Principles of Genetic Testing for Dyslipidemia in Children”. Abnormalities of lipids and lipoproteins in youth may be caused by genetic mutations, acquired conditions, or both. Those with acquired conditions, such as obesity and insulin resistance, are encouraged to adopt a heart-healthy lifestyle, which includes a low-fat, calorically appropriate carbohydrate diet, weight loss if overweight or obese, participation in 30-60 minutes of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity per day and smoking avoidance or cessation. Those suspected of having a genetic mutation are generally diagnosed based upon clinical criteria with or without genetic testing. Genetic mutations that cause lipid and lipoprotein abnormalities vary depending upon the mode of inheritance (autosomal co-dominant vs autosomal recessive), the type of mutation present (slice vs missense), the number of genes involved (monogenic vs polygenic) and their phenotypic expression. When a genetic mutation is present, its expression may potentially be modified by other gene
