Understanding Ethical Dilemmas in Pediatric Lipidology- Genetic Testing in Youth
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, children, genetic testing, child, screening, treatment, health, family, rights, early, hypercholesterolemia, predictive, benefits, disease


(slice vs missense), the number of genes involved (monogenic vs polygenic) and their phenotypic expression. When a genetic mutation is present, its expression may potentially be modified by other gene abnormalities (often small effect mutations) and environmental factors (e.g., obesity, insulin resistance, medications). For additional information see the Endotext chapter entitled “Genetics and Dyslipidemia”. Early identification and treatment of children with clinically suspected or genetically confirmed FH has become increasingly common. However long-term outcome studies demonstrating the safety and efficacy of this approach are lacking. Since lifestyles and therapeutic options are likely to change over the extended period of time that would be necessary to reach “hard” end points in children with FH, such as myocardial infarction and stroke, outcome studies are unlikely to be forthcoming. Given the significant benefit statins have shown in reducing CVD-related mortality in adults, it has been suggested that withholding effective treatment in moderate-to-high risk children would be unethical ( 2 ). For additional information see the Endotext chapter entitled “Familial Hypercholesterolemia”. A novel approach has been suggested to potentially lower costs and avoid prolonged exposure of at-risk children to lipid-lowering medication, while offering timely and presumably effective intervention. Rather than continuous treatment implemented at an early age, Robinson and Gidding proposed intermittent lipid-lowering medication guided by noninvasive measures of atherosclerosis, such as carotid intima-media thickness ( 3 ). As with conventional approaches, the goal of such therapy would be regression of atherosclerotic lesions, with retreatment periodically throughout adulthood as needed. While intriguing, the benefits of this recommendation have not been proven. To date recommendations for early identification and treatment of children with hypercholesterolemia have focused primary on the potential benefits. Fortunately, no significant physical or psychological harms have been shown in children who have undergone early screening and treatment. However, healthcare providers who advocate screening, genetic testing and treatment of children should carefully consider potential ethical issues, including the rights of the child to participate in clinical decision-making, the presumed benefits to the child and the family, as well as potential harms. PRIVACY, DISCRIMINATION AND THE LEGAL RIGHTS OF CHILDREN Over the last 50 years, in the U.S. Congress has passed a variety of laws to assure the privacy of an individual’s health information and eliminate discrimination based upon an individual’s health status. While most clinicians have an awareness of these laws, it is unclear how clinicians use this information in clinical decision-making, particularly
