Understanding Ethical Dilemmas in Pediatric Lipidology- Genetic Testing in Youth
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, children, genetic testing, child, screening, treatment, health, family, rights, early, hypercholesterolemia, predictive, benefits, disease


and eliminate discrimination based upon an individual’s health status. While most clinicians have an awareness of these laws, it is unclear how clinicians use this information in clinical decision-making, particularly as it relates to the current or future interests of the child. Privacy In 1996, Congress passed the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act or HIPAA. This law mandates the protection and confidential handling of protected health information, including genetic information. Furthermore, HIPAA states that genetic information in the absence of a diagnosis (e.g., predictive genetic test results) cannot be considered a pre-existing condition. Since children with heterozygous FH are rarely affected by their hypercholesterolemia during childhood, genetic testing would be considered “predictive” of adult-onset disease. Children found to have a pathogenic or presumed pathogenic mutation, therefore, are afforded privacy under HIPPA and are not consider to have a pre-existing condition. The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA), passed in 2008, adds to HIPPA by prohibiting health insurers and employers from asking or requiring a person to take a genetic test and using genetic information in 1) setting insurance rates and 2) making employment decisions. Discrimination and Pre-existing Medical Conditions Prior to 2014, insurance companies based eligibility for and the cost of health insurance on the presence or absence of pre-existing medical conditions. A pre-existing condition is typically one for which an individual has received treatment or a diagnosis before being enrolled in a health plan. Because they were determined by insurance providers, criteria defining pre-existing conditions varied widely. This meant that when applying for health insurance individuals, including children, previously diagnosed with and/or treated for hypercholesterolemia were considered to have a pre-existing condition. Since 2014, with the passage of the Affordable Care Act, insurance companies can no longer deny coverage or discriminate against individuals due to a pre-existing condition. Nor can individuals be charged significantly higher premiums, subjected to an extended waiting period, or have their benefits curtailed or coverage withdrawn because of a pre-existing condition. However, this protection does not extend to an individual’s ability to obtain nor the rates charged for life, disability, and long-term care insurance. Despite these reassurances, in some cases exemptions may apply, particularly for members of the United States military, veterans obtaining healthcare through the Veterans Administration (VA), and individuals who receive services through the Indian Health Service. Children’s Rights A child’s rights can be considered in two parts 1) nurturance rights, i.e., the
