Understanding Ethical Dilemmas in Pediatric Lipidology- Genetic Testing in Youth
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, children, genetic testing, child, screening, treatment, health, family, rights, early, hypercholesterolemia, predictive, benefits, disease


the Veterans Administration (VA), and individuals who receive services through the Indian Health Service. Children’s Rights A child’s rights can be considered in two parts 1) nurturance rights, i.e., the right to care and protection and 2) self-determination rights, i.e., the right to have some measure of control over their own lives. Historically, society has focused on the former. Increasingly there is a growing emphasis on shared decision-making in medicine that recognizes children have the right to take an active part in many of the decisions regarding their own lives. While such efforts are commendable, the ability of children to become actively and willfully involved in the decision process is complicated by normal, and sometimes abnormal, growth and development. This raises an important question about a child’s ability to understand their rights in a reasonable and meaningful way ( 4 ). It also assumes that healthcare providers are trained, capable of and willing to provide developmentally-appropriate information to children in a comprehendible and non-threatening way. In the 1980s, Melton ( 5 , 6 ) suggested that children progress through three distinct stage-like levels of reasoning about rights: Level 1, children exhibit an egocentric orientation where they perceive rights in terms of privileges that are bestowed or withdrawn on the whims of an authority figure. Level 2 children see rights as being based on fairness, maintaining social order and obeying rules. Finally, in Level 3 rights are seen in terms of abstract universal principles. Subsequent models favored the gradual acquisition of context specific knowledge ( 7 - 9 ). When and how well a child progresses from limited to abstract reasoning presents challenges for physicians who strive to involve children in decisions regarding early screening and intervention for CVD risk prevention. MIGHT EARLY DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA COMPROMISE A CHILD’S FUTURE RIGHTS? Laws such as HIPPA, the Affordable Care Act, and GINA protect privacy and prohibit health insurance companies from denying coverage or discriminating against individuals due to a pre-existing condition, including hypercholesterolemia. Nonetheless, current laws do not preclude an individual being denied other forms of coverage, such as life, disability, or long-term care insurance. Furthermore, laws governing privacy, healthcare, and insurance coverage are subject to change over the course of the child's lifetime. This potential vulnerability needs to be considered by clinicians who provide care to children and fully disclosed to the family prior to diagnostic evaluation and treatment
