Understanding Ethical Dilemmas in Pediatric Lipidology- Genetic Testing in Youth
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, children, genetic testing, child, screening, treatment, health, family, rights, early, hypercholesterolemia, predictive, benefits, disease


of the child's lifetime. This potential vulnerability needs to be considered by clinicians who provide care to children and fully disclosed to the family prior to diagnostic evaluation and treatment of children with hypercholesterolemia. To the extent that they can participate in such conversations, children should be included in the clinical decision-making. The accelerated risk of atherosclerosis beginning in young adults notwithstanding, the urgency of screening and early treatment of children needs to be considered in the context of the child’s overall best interest and, ideally, with their approval. ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS AND CONCERNS Since 1953, there has been an impressive increase in new technology and expanded uses of genetic testing and screening. Application of these diagnostic tools in minors has increasingly become commonplace, raising concerns about ethical issues. While pediatric screening and genetic testing are much less common outside of newborn screening, universal screening and increased use of genetic testing has been advocated by many national professional organizations and societies. Justification for such recommendations cite early identification of a child with an underlying genetic abnormality as an opportunity to initiate treatment that may prevent or reduce morbidity or mortality. Over the past 50 years, genetic testing has increasingly played an important role in helping to understand the basis of many disorders of lipid and lipoprotein metabolism, identifying those who are affected and aiding our understanding of an individual’s risk. While only a minority of individuals with hypercholesterolemia who undergo genetic testing are found to have a pathogenic mutation, epidemiologic and Medallion randomization studies suggest these individuals are at significantly higher risk of premature ASCVD-related morbidity and mortality than the general population. Genetic testing of an asymptomatic child based upon an abnormal blood test and/or positive family history for a specific genetic condition, such as FH, has also been proposed, particularly if early treatment may affect future morbidity or mortality. Some genetic tests can reasonability predict disease which only manifest in adults. Ultimately, decisions about whether to offer genetic testing and screening should be driven by the best interest of the child. This, perhaps, is best determined by a thoughtful discussion between the child’s healthcare provider, the parents, and, when appropriate, the child. Current recommendations and guidelines suggest early intervention to achieve the best outcomes. Yet, there is no clear definition as to the optimum age at which intervention should be recommended, nor clear understanding about a child’s ability to understand
