Understanding Ethical Dilemmas in Pediatric Lipidology- Genetic Testing in Youth
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, children, genetic testing, child, screening, treatment, health, family, rights, early, hypercholesterolemia, predictive, benefits, disease


achieve the best outcomes. Yet, there is no clear definition as to the optimum age at which intervention should be recommended, nor clear understanding about a child’s ability to understand and make a rational decision regarding testing and/or treatment. The genetic testing of children raises specific considerations. Because of the need to respect a children's rights, caution has been advised in performing genetic tests during childhood. Newborn genetic testing is now ubiquitous, yet it is not always seen as routine for older children despite specific indications. Testing for drug responsiveness or disease susceptibility is supported by the ethical principle of beneficence when the benefit/risk ratio is in favor of discovering these results during childhood. Possible harms are seen when such knowledge may impact a child negatively, or foreclose future autonomy about the decision to accept the consequences of such testing. Therefore, there is a difference between genetic confirmation in symptomatic children, and that of pre-symptomatic children in which the benefit may accrue later, but the risks may occur in childhood. Such immediate risks potentially include stigmatization by the disease, depression, or decreased self-esteem. Conversely, altered family dynamics may result in parental favoritism, and survivor's guilt in siblings who test negative. This limitation on future autonomy is not confined to just refusing or allowing an adult decision for testing, but also dealing with the impact on future employment, education, and social relationships when the diagnosis is made at an early age. Tests which help diagnose an ongoing, treatable condition that could affect current and future manifestations and complications clearly can be in the child's best interest. However, when a child is asymptomatic and the disorder is late-onset, it is no longer obvious that such a diagnosis during childhood is in the child's best interest. Therefore, it is advised the children only undergo genetic testing when there is immediate medical benefit in childhood, either through diagnosis and treatment of a disease manifesting in the pediatric age range, or a disease whose prevention is possible and should not be delayed. Under these circumstances, informed decision-making is essential, with parental permission being linked to the child's assent whenever possible. CHOLESTEROL SCREENING AND TREATMENT Currently, universally cholesterol testing is recommended for all children in the U.S., starting at 10 years-of-age (range 9-11). The primary purpose of cholesterol screening is to identify individuals with familial hypercholesterolemia. For those found to have a significant elevation of cholesterol
