Understanding Ethical Dilemmas in Pediatric Lipidology- Genetic Testing in Youth
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, children, genetic testing, child, screening, treatment, health, family, rights, early, hypercholesterolemia, predictive, benefits, disease


U.S., starting at 10 years-of-age (range 9-11). The primary purpose of cholesterol screening is to identify individuals with familial hypercholesterolemia. For those found to have a significant elevation of cholesterol a low-fat diet is recommended. Lipid-lowering medications, such as a statin, are recommended for children with a persistently elevated LDL-C, starting at approximately 8-10 years-of-age. Genetic Testing Genetic testing of all children suspected of having FH has been recommended ( 10 ). The purported benefits of genetic testing are 1) to assist in clinical decision-making regarding the need for lipid-lowering medication, 2) to help determine the appropriate on-treatment goal of LCL cholesterol; and 3) facilitate cascade screening of biologic relatives. To help better understand the complexities of genetic testing and provide guidance, in 2013 both the American Academy Pediatrics (AAP) and the American College of Medical Genetics (ACMG) published recommendations for genetic testing of children. These guidelines are particularly relevant for those providing care for children with lipid and lipoprotein disorders since, with the exception of homozygous disease, children with heterozygous FH are asymptomatic. Hence, genetic testing in this unique population would be considered “predictive” of adult disease. However, although there is much emphasis on early screening and genetic testing of children for FH, children have a variety of genetic conditions that affect other lipids and lipoproteins as well, such as triglycerides. The infantile form of lysosomal acid lipase deficiency, for example, is generally fatal in the absence of early diagnosis and enzyme replacement therapy. Thus, biochemical screening and genetic testing in this condition becomes imperative in order to reduce early morbidity and prevent premature mortality. Examples of other conditions in which there is a sense of urgency include familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS), cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX), and homozygous mutations of MTTP (abetalipoproteinemia), APOB (familial hypobetalipoproteinemia), and SAR1 (chylomicron retention disease). When considering screening and genetic testing of children with lipid and lipoprotein disorders, therefore, “one size” clearly does not fit all circumstances. Clinicians must consider each child and condition as unique, carefully weighing the presumed benefits and potential harms individually, before making diagnostic and therapeutic recommendations. In deciding whether a child should undergo predictive genetic testing, the AAP and ACMG emphasize that the focus must be on the child’s medical best interest. Both organizations concluded that unless ameliorative interventions are available during childhood, children should not undergo testing for predispositions to adult-onset conditions and clinicians should generally decline to order
