Understanding Ethical Dilemmas in Pediatric Lipidology- Genetic Testing in Youth
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, children, genetic testing, child, screening, treatment, health, family, rights, early, hypercholesterolemia, predictive, benefits, disease


best interest. Both organizations concluded that unless ameliorative interventions are available during childhood, children should not undergo testing for predispositions to adult-onset conditions and clinicians should generally decline to order testing. With the exception of those with homozygous FH, this suggests that children with heterozygous disease could defer treatment until adulthood. There is convincing evidence using noninvasive techniques, however, that early initiation of lipid-lowering medication can significantly reduce subclinical atherosclerosis. It is presumed that as a consequence of early and persistent LDL-cholesterol lowering that ASCVD-related events will be prevented or delayed. Yet proof of improved outcomes is currently limited and generally inferred from adult data. The AAP and ACMG did recognize that the potential psychosocial benefits and harms to the child and the extended family also need to be carefully considered. Extending consideration beyond the child’s medical best interest not only acknowledges the traditional deference given to parents about how they raise their children, but also recognizes that the interest of a child is embedded in and dependent on the interests of the family unit. Predictive genetic testing for adult-onset conditions generally should be deferred unless an intervention initiated in childhood may reduce morbidity or mortality. In some families, the psychosocial burden of ambiguity may be so great as to justify testing during childhood, particularly when parents and mature adolescents jointly express interest in doing so. AAP AND ACMG RECOMMENDATIONS Genetic testing performed in children can be considered either as diagnostic or predictive ( 11 ). 1. Diagnostic Genetic Testing - Is performed on a child with physical, developmental, or behavioral features consistent with a potential genetic syndrome or for pharmacogenetic drug selection and dosing decisions. Medical benefits include the possibility of preventive or therapeutic interventions, decisions about surveillance, the clarification of diagnosis and prognosis, and recurrence risks. If the medical benefits of a test are uncertain, will not be realized until a later time, or do not clearly outweigh the medical risks, the justification for testing is less compelling. 2. Predictive Genetic Testing - Is performed on an asymptomatic child with a positive family history for a specific genetic condition, particularly if early surveillance or treatment may affect morbidity or mortality. When there is uncertainty that the presence of a genetic mutation will give rise to clinical manifestations, testing is referred to as “pre-dispositional” testing. Most predictive genetic testing for adult-onset conditions is pre-dispositional. Recommendations for Genetic Testing of
