Understanding Ethical Dilemmas in Pediatric Lipidology- Genetic Testing in Youth
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, children, genetic testing, child, screening, treatment, health, family, rights, early, hypercholesterolemia, predictive, benefits, disease


a genetic mutation will give rise to clinical manifestations, testing is referred to as “pre-dispositional” testing. Most predictive genetic testing for adult-onset conditions is pre-dispositional. Recommendations for Genetic Testing of Children 1. General a. Decisions about whether to offer genetic testing and screening should be driven by the best interest of the child. b. Genetic testing is best offered in the context of genetic counseling. 2. Diagnostic Testing c. In a child with symptoms of a genetic condition: i. Parents or guardians should be informed about the risks and benefits of testing, and their permission should be obtained. ii. Ideally and when appropriate, the assent of the child should be obtained. d. When performed for therapeutic purposes: iii. Pharmacogenetic testing of children is acceptable, with permission of parents or guardians and, when appropriate, the child’s assent. iv. If a pharmacogenetic test result carries implications beyond drug targeting or dose-responsiveness, the broader implications should be discussed before testing. 3. Newborn Screening e. The AAP and ACMG support the mandatory offering of newborn screening for all children. Parents should have the option of refusing the procedure, and an informed refusal should be respected. 4. Carrier Testing f. The AAP and ACMG do not support routine carrier testing in minors when such testing does not provide health benefits in childhood. This recommendation accords with previous statements supporting the future decisional autonomy of the minor, who will be able to make an informed choice about testing once he or she reaches the age of majority. g. For pregnant adolescents or for adolescents considering reproduction, genetic testing and screening should be offered as clinically indicated, and the risks and benefits should be clearly explained. 5. Predictive Genetic Testing h. Parents or guardians may authorize predictive genetic testing for asymptomatic children at risk of childhood onset conditions. i. Ideally, the assent of the child should be obtained. j. Predictive genetic testing for adult-onset conditions generally should be deferred unless an intervention initiated in childhood may reduce morbidity or mortality. k. An exception might be made for families in whom diagnostic uncertainty poses a significant psychosocial burden, particularly when an adolescent and his or her parents concur in their interest in predictive testing. l. For ethical and legal reasons, health care providers should be cautious about providing predictive genetic testing to minors without the involvement of their parents or guardians, even if a minor is mature. Results
