Understanding Ethical Dilemmas in Pediatric Lipidology- Genetic Testing in Youth
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, children, genetic testing, child, screening, treatment, health, family, rights, early, hypercholesterolemia, predictive, benefits, disease


legal reasons, health care providers should be cautious about providing predictive genetic testing to minors without the involvement of their parents or guardians, even if a minor is mature. Results of such tests may have significant medical, psychological, and social implications, not only for the minor, but also for other family members. Potential Benefits and Harms of Predictive Genetic Testing of Children. Adapted from ( 11 ) View in own window Medical Benefits Possibility of evolving therapeutic interventions, targeted surveillance, refinement of prognosis and clarification of diagnosis Harms Misdiagnosis to the extent that genotype does not correlate with phenotype, ambiguous results in which a specific phenotype cannot be predicted and use of ineffective or harmful preventive or therapeutic interventions. Psychosocial Benefits Reduction of uncertainty and anxiety, the opportunity for psychological adjustment, the ability to make realistic life plans and sharing the information with family members. Harms Alteration of self-image, distortion of parental perception of the child, increased anxiety and guilt, altered expectation by self and others, familial stress related to identification of other at-risk family members, difficulty obtaining life and/or disability insurance, and the detection of misattributed parentage. Reproductive Benefits Avoiding the birth of a child with genetic disease or having time to prepare for the birth of a child with genetic disease. Harms Changing family-planning decisions on the basis of social pressures. It is essential that parents, guardians and maturing minors receive genetic counseling before undergoing predictive testing, which includes a discussion of the limits of genetic knowledge and treatment capabilities as well as the potential for psychological harm, stigmatization, and discrimination ( 12 ). If an adolescent declines genetic testing, and the benefits of knowing will not be relevant for years to decades, the adolescent’s decision should be final. If a minor is young or immature, genetic testing should be delayed until the minor can actively participate. If predictive testing of conditions for which childhood interventions will ameliorate future harm, this may favor early testing. In such cases, parental authority to determine medical treatment supersedes the minor’s preferences with regard to liberty and privacy. CONCLUSION Although recommended for all individuals, including children, with clinically suspected familial hypercholesterolemia, genetic testing should be approached with caution. Parents and, when appropriate, children should be provided with a comprehensive discussion of the pros and cons of genetic testing, and informed about out-of-pocket costs prior to testing. REFERENCES 1. Expert Panel on Integrated
