GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: doi, ibs, intestinal, bowel, irritable, syndrome, irritable bowel, patients, bowel syndrome, immune, cells, gut, axis, inflammation, permeability


junction complex associated with clinical manifesta- and soreness because it also disrupts epithelial tions, findings that provide evidence of intestinal barrier function, thereby altering mucosal perme- epithelial barrier damage in IBS-D.41 IBS-D is dis- ability. Manufacturers of MCs can be involved in tinguished with the abdominal distress or diarrhea hypersensitivity reactions and permeability and the change in defecation habits, associated with defects in IBS-D.35 Ewa and colleagues36 Studies excessive intestinal permeability.42 MicroRNA have shown low levels of E-calmodulin, which is (miRNA) is implicated and involved in the modula- a closely linked component of the protein tion for intestinal permeability of IBS-D. Eight involved in the regulation of paracellular perme- upregulated and 18 downregulated miRNAs were ability, in the colonic mucosa of patients with identified in a rat model of IBS-D. Among them, IBS, mainly in the form of diarrhea or alternating miR-144 was significantly upregulated, and upregu- symptoms. These findings correspond to the lation of miR-144 promotes intestinal hyperperme- symptoms of IBS-D and allow us to add to the ability and impairs the protective effect of the improved understanding of epithelial barrier epithelial barrier, which may be a new target for damage related to IBS. Increasing evidence sug- the treatment of IBS-D.43 Xu et al.44 had 28 patients gests that at least a proportion of patients with with IBS-D and 12 healthy controls. Patients exhib- IBS have an impaired epithelial barrier related to ited increased psychiatric symptoms, greater visc- low-level immune activation and intestinal eral hypersensitivity and intestinal barrier malfunction.37 Zhou et al.38 evaluated intestinal dysfunction. The data showed significant elevation membrane permeability in 54 IBS-D patients and of nerve growth factor gene expressed, MC count as 22 healthy controls. About 39% have elevated well as sensory nerve fibers in the patients. Elevated permeability of the intestinal membrane in IBS- mucosal nerve growth factor might interplay D sufferers. In rectal biopsy experiments using between MCs and sensory nerve fibers, leading to horseradish peroxidase to assess 16 IBS-D visceral hypersensitivity responses in IBS-D patients patients and 7 normal subjects, the number of with compromised intestinal barrier function. mucosal MCs and permeability were significantly Interestingly, increased intestinal permeability con- increased in the IBS-D group compared to the tributes to inflammation, and increased inflamma- control group. It was shown that the number of tion further enhances intestinal permeability. 4 Y. YUAN ET AL. Dysbiosis of microbiome ecology Intestinal microbiome has an essential part
