GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: doi, ibs, intestinal, bowel, irritable, syndrome, irritable bowel, patients, bowel syndrome, immune, cells, gut, axis, inflammation, permeability


B cells and increases cell permeability. DC, dendritic cell; EC, enterophilic cell; IL-17A, interleukin 17A; INF-γ, tumor necrosis factor-γ; IgA, immunoglobulin A; MC, mast cell; TNF-α, tumor necrosis factor-α; 5-HT, 5-hydroxytryptamine. density, and intestinal activity in IBS patients high- of the intestine.62 An increase in intestinal lighted in the experimental results may be asso- mucosal and blood-innate immune activity ciated with symptoms of visceral hypersensitivity was also observed in the IBS subgroup of reactions. In recent studies, there is increasing evi- subjects.55 Cermon et al.63 compared 48 IBS dence of T cell-mediated hypo-inflammation in the patients, 12 patients with colitis, 20 patients intestinal mucosa of post-infectious irritable bowel with ulcerative colitis, and 24 healthy controls syndrome (PI-IBS).59 As demonstrated by the dis- for intestinal immune cells, and IBS patients ease progression in patients with PI-IBS, the infec- had significantly increased mucosal immune tion may lead to generalized inflammation and cells. Further analysis showed that increased alter the diversity of the microbiome, instead immune cells were present in 50% of IBS potentially perpetuating a cycle of permanent, low- patients. Immune cells such as T cells and grade, and subclinical infections.60 Also, the activa- MCs were increased in IBS patients compared tion of immunity could account for the dominance to controls. Shulman et al.64 measured fecal β- of women and fluctuating immunological activa- defensin-72 in children with IBS and healthy tion, leading to changes in symptoms over time.61 controls, and children with IBS had higher β- By analyzing the retrieved studies, patients defensin-2 concentrations than the healthy with IBS were observed to have a higher fre- group. Elevated fecal β-defensin-2 values of quency of activation of immunity compared to children with IBS suggest innate immune sys- healthy subjects, with increased numbers of tem activation with increased intestinal perme- MCs in IBS patients and lymphocytes, altered ability in some patients, and these changes levels of cytokines, and increased permeability appear to be associated with symptoms of IBS 6 Y. YUAN ET AL. associated with abdominal distress. Together, responses to adrenocorticotropic hormone, and they suggest the presence of intestinal immune increased vagal responses to rectal distention.69 system activation in IBS patients. The cell bodies of vagal afferent fibers are found in the nodal ganglia and project to solitary bundle Inflammatory signals transmitted through the nuclei in the brainstem, where they receive mes- brain-intestine axis sages before sending them to higher-order cerebral Clinical evidence suggests
