GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: doi, ibs, intestinal, bowel, irritable, syndrome, irritable bowel, patients, bowel syndrome, immune, cells, gut, axis, inflammation, permeability


treatment of recurrent C. difficile infections 113–116 accompanying IBD, but very time-consuming and labor-intensive complementary hypnotherapy Applications are limited by considerable cost and long duration as well as 117,118 alternative adverse patient and clinician restrictions therapy acupuncture It may be possible to improve intestinal motility and visceral sensitivity to IBS 119–123 treatment by modulating brain gut peptide levels in the central nervous system, intestines, and blood. However, the reasons for the effectiveness of acupuncture treatment still need to be further explored Approaches may be related to their brain network function, altered structural connectivity, and altered gut microbiome. However, there is a lack of reference for evaluating microbiome persistence and neuroanatomical alterations in CBT-responsive populations GUT MICROBES 9 Figure 2. Inflammation, immunity and HPA axis in IBS. The inflammatory, immune and HAP axes interact with each other in IBS disease. Peripheral responses to environmental stressors or intestinal inflammation are integrated in the central nervous system, triggering the HPA axis. The HPA axis coordinates the release of glucocorticoids from the adrenal glands to promote gastrointestinal dysfunction. Activation of intestinal immune cells may disrupt epithelial barrier function, thereby altering mucosal permeability and potentially leading to intestinal inflammation. Intestinal inflammation in turn enhances intestinal mucosal permeability. Increased intestinal immune response through CRH-mediated mast cell activation. Intestinal immunity drives neuroimmune activation. article summarizes current treatments for irritable Although there is growing evidence of low-grade bowel syndrome, focusing on medications, dietary chronic inflammation in patients with irritable modifications, probiotics, and other alternative bowel, it remains uncertain which triggers ulti- therapies. (Table 1) Despite recent advances, cur- mately disrupt the intestinal immune system. rent treatments still do not respond well to all the Many other mechanisms can also lead to immune changes caused by irritable bowel syndrome. There activation. The effects of stress on the HPA axis, as is a need to develop new therapies that can alleviate well as alterations in intestinal permeability or the suffering of people with irritable bowel syn- interactions with the immune system in response drome without causing deleterious central effects to food intolerance, require further investigation. or other adverse effects. The current clinical is the difficulty in identifying and describing subgroups of patients with the same pathophysiological mechanisms, leading to diffi- Conclusion culties in the design and improvement of therapeu- In the last few years, it has been demonstrated that tic regimens. altered gastrointestinal environment, persistent In summary, IBS is a
