Abdominal Organ Cluster Transplantation for the
KEYWORDS: ofthe, patient, transplantation, cluster, patients, fig, liver, organ, operation, days, table, pancreas, organ cluster, starzl, graft


Abdominal Organ Cluster Transplantation for the Treatment of Upper Abdominal Malignancies THOMAS E. STARZL, M.D., PH.D., SATORU TODO, M.D., ANDREASTZAKIS, M.D., LUIS PODESTA, M.D., LUIS MIELES, M.D., ANTHONY DEMETRIS, M.D.,* LEWISTEPERMAN, M.D., RICK SELBY, M.D., WILLIAM STEVENSON, M.D., ANDREI STIEBER, M.D., ROBERT GORDON, M.D., and SHUNZABURO IWATSUKI, M.D. liver underwent removal of most or all of the stomach, liver, Veterans'Administration MedicalCenter, Pittsburgh, pancreas, spleen,duodenum,proximaljejunum,terminalileum, Pennsylvania and ascending and transverse colon. The void in the upper ab- domen was filled with an organ cluster graft consisting ofthe liver, pancreas, duodenum, and variable segments ofproximal jejunum. Eightofthetenpatientsarealiveafter3to9months, colon have been considered to be categorically nonre- all with good liverand pancreas function, and most with satis- sectable. factoryfunctionofthegastrointestinaltract.Oneofthesurviving During the last year, we have examined the premise patients was in the hospital for 4 months because ofmultiple that radical excision ofmost ofthe foregut (Fig. 1) could enteric fistulas and infections; the other seven survivors were allowcomplete removalofcertainhepaticductcell, duo- dischargedafteranaverageof43± 17.61 (SD)days.Recurrent tumorhasnotbeenprovedinanyofthesurvivingrecipientsand denal, gastric, and pancreatic malignancies that had al- issuspectedinonlyone.Thestudyofsuchcasesshouldprovide readyspreadtotheliver, aswellasextirpationofprimary insightandguidelinesapplicabletoothervisceraltransplantation liver tumors whose spread was downward. Ten patients procedures thatmaybeattempted inthefuture. with these seemingly untreatable conditions underwent removal of the liver, stomach, spleen, pancreas, duo- I NTHEDEVELOPMENTOFTHEhumanfetus,theliver denum,proximaljejunum, terminalileum,andascending andpancreas begin asventral anddorsaldiverticula and transverse colon (Fig. 1B). The void in the upper from that portion ofthe foregut that later becomes abdomen was filled with cadaveric organ cluster grafts the duodenum' (Fig. IA). The anatomic relationship of thatincludedtheliver, pancreas, duodenum, andvariable these organs becomes more complex with their differen- amounts ofproximaljejunum. tiation and rotation, but their intimacy, including the sharingoftheterminalhepaticandpancreaticductdrain- ageintotheduodenum,isnotlost.Thusitisnotsurprising Methods thatmalignant tumorsdeveloping at ornearthe original CaseMaterial duodenal outpouchings are notoriously refractory to treatment, even ifthese are localized to a single organ. The patients were 27 to 46 years old with an equal Tumorsthatoriginate inoneofthethreeorgansandme- distributionbetweensexes(Table 1). Noneofthepatients tastasizetothe other(s)ortothetransverse mesocolon or had liver failure, although six werejaundiced (Table 1). Allhadsomeweightloss,whichwassevereintwopatients. Severe portal hypertension was notpresentin any ofthe Presentedatthe 109thAnnualMeetingoftheAmericanSurgicalAs- patients. sociation,ColoradoSprings,Colorado, April 10-12, 1989. SupportedbyresearchgrantsfromtheVeterans'Administration,and Five ofthe ten patients had not been previously oper- by Project Grant DK 29961 from the National Institutes ofHealth, ated on orinstrumented, and only one hadreceived che- Correspondence and reprint requests to: Thomas E. Starzl, M.D., had undergone resection ofasuperiorly locatedductcell carcinoma (Klatskin tumor) with Roux-Y biliary recon- burgh,Pennsylvania 15213. Acceptedforpublication:April 14, 1989. struction 2.5 yearsearlier. Thetumorrecurredwithlarge Vol.210*No.3 ABDOMINAL ORGAN CLUSTER TRANSPLANTATION 375 I I I I Foregdg u! t Hindguti I
