Abdominal Organ Cluster Transplantation for the
KEYWORDS: ofthe, patient, transplantation, cluster, patients, fig, liver, organ, operation, days, table, pancreas, organ cluster, starzl, graft


FIGS. 3A AND B. CT scan showingthe massive livermetastases in (A) patient4andin(B)patient 5. Thecelltypeswerespindle cellsarcoma andcarcinoid, respectively. specimen or left behind as dictated by the location and degree ofpenetration ofthe tumor. The excised specimen included the liver, nearly all of the stomach, spleen, pancreas, duodenum, proximal je- junum, terminal ileum, andascendingandtransverse co- lon (Fig. 1B). The retrohepatic vena cava was removed _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~anasooe with the speci w m a e s n c . prTohveidveodiwdti,n th p e m u - p r p i er en a s b v d e o n m o e - n v w e a - s y filled with a composite graft ofthe liver, pancreas, and duodenum, plussmall segments oftheproximaljejunum. The upper and lower vena caval anastomoses were per- formed first, followed in most cases by placement ofthe Cafrell patch at the site ofthe recipient celiac axis (Fig. 7). Venous outflow for the intestines during removal of the specimen and performance ofthe first three vascular in n FIGS. 2AAND B. (A)CT ansoftwopatientswithadvanced ductcell carcnomas, biliary obstruction, andmultipleparenchymal metastases. nous bypass that did not require heparinization (Fig. 7, Thepathologicconditionofthetumorwashighlyunfavorableinpatient insert). 3 (seeTable2). NotetheCourvoisiergallbladder(arrow). (B)Patient 7 After rearterializing the graft, the recipient's superior hadmassiverecurrence ofaKatskin tumorthathadbeenresected2.5 Te ro p e v a ve yearsbefore. Thispatient hadliverabscesses andwasdyingofuncon- trollablesepsis. noushypertension, thecatheterinthe superiormesenteric 378 STARZL AND OTHERS Ann.Surg-September1989 FIG.4.CTscanofpatient 9,whohadaveryexten- sive carcinoma of the common ductwith liver invasion,andwithdirect invasionoftheheadand body of the pancreas (arrow). Multiple lymph node metastases can be seen. vein was removed, and an end-to-end anastomosis was Postoperative Care madeofthedonorandrecipientsuperiormesentericveins Immunosuppression. Baseline treatment was with cy- (Fig. 8). closporine and prednisone to which azathioprine was Gastrointestinal reconstruction usuallywasperformed added when and ifthe white blood countwas more than as shown in Figure 8. After closing the duodenal stump, 5000 mm3 (Figs. 11 and 12). The drugs were started in- theendofthegraftjejunum wasanastomosed totheside travenouslyandswitchedtotheoralroutewhenfeasible. ofthe hostjejunum downstream from thejejunal anas- All ten patients had a prophylactic 10-to-14 day course tomosis to the esophagus or gastric cuff. In Patient 5, ofOKT3 starting the day oforthe day after operation. whose proximal stomach was saved with an intact left Adjuvant cancer therapy. No other treatment than re- gastric artery supply, the duodenum and proximal je- section was given. junumwereplacedincontinuitywiththegastrointestinal Diet. Eating was resumed when requested by the pa- tract so thatingested foodpassed through the homograft tient, and advanced quickly to multiple small feedings. intestine as soon as
