Amiodarone Induced Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: ait, type, type ait, thyroid, patients, amiodarone, iodine, thyrotoxicosis, pubmed, levels, treatment, increased, uptake, type type, hyperthyroidism


CLINICAL RECOGNITION Patients treated with amiodarone for a cardiac arrhythmia may develop amiodarone Induced thyrotoxicosis (AIT). The risk of AIT is increased in iodine-deficient regions. The incidence of AIT varies greatly (between 0.003% and 10%). AIT occurs in 3% of patients treated with amiodarone in North America, but is much more frequent (up to 10%) in countries with a low iodine dietary intake. In contrast to the other forms of hyperthyroidism, AIT is more frequent in males than in females (M/F = 3/1). AIT manifests with clinical signs indistinguishable from spontaneous hyperthyroidism, however symptoms and signs of thyrotoxicosis are not apparent in all patients, and may be obscured by an underlying cardiac condition. The reappearance or exacerbation of an underlying cardiac disorder after amiodarone is started, in a patient previously stable, should prompt an investigation into thyroid function for suspected development of AIT. Sometimes worsening of a cardiac arrhythmia with recurrence of atrial fibrillation and palpitations is the only clinical evidence of AIT. The development of angina may also occur. Similarly, unexplained changes in warfarin sensitivity, requiring a reduction in the dosage of this drug, can be the consequence of increased thyroid hormone levels, since hyperthyroidism increases warfarin effects. AIT may develop early during amiodarone treatment, after many months of treatment, and has even been reported to occur several months after amiodarone withdrawal, since amiodarone and its metabolites have a long half-life due to accumulation in several tissues, especially fat. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY There are two different forms of AIT, and differential diagnosis between the two forms is important, since treatments are different. However, it is often not possible to clearly distinguish AIT1 and AIT2. Type 1 AIT usually occurs in an abnormal thyroid gland (latent Graves’ disease, multinodular gland) and is the consequence of increased thyroid hormone biosynthesis due to iodine excess in patients with a preexisting thyroid disorder (Amiodarone contains 37% iodine by weight). Type 1 AIT is more common in iodine deficient regions. Type 2 AIT is a destructive process of the thyroid gland leading to the release of pre-formed hormone. This thyroiditis is an intrinsic toxic effect of amiodarone. Type 2 AIT usually persists for one to three months until thyroid hormone stores are depleted. In most countries Type 2 AIT is more common than Type 1 AIT. Differences between Type 1 and Type 2 AIT are described in table 1 . Differentiating between AIT Type 1 and
