Amiodarone Induced Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: ait, type, type ait, thyroid, patients, amiodarone, iodine, thyrotoxicosis, pubmed, levels, treatment, increased, uptake, type type, hyperthyroidism


Type 2 AIT is more common than Type 1 AIT. Differences between Type 1 and Type 2 AIT are described in table 1 . Differentiating between AIT Type 1 and 2 is often very difficult. Table 1. Differences between Type 1 and 2 Amiodarone Induced Thyrotoxicosis View in own window Type 1 Type 2 Underlying thyroid disease Yes (Multinodular goiter, Grave’s) No Time after starting amiodarone Short (median 3 months) Long (median 30 months) 24-hour iodine uptake Low-Normal (may rarely be high in iodine deficient regions) Low to Suppressed Thyroid Ultrasound Diffuse or Nodular Goiter may be present Normal or small gland Vascularity on Echo-color Doppler ultrasound Increased Absent T4/T3 ratio Usually <4 Usually >4 TgAb / TPOAb/ TSI May be present Usually absent Circulating interleukin-6 Normal to high Sometimes markedly elevated but usually doesn’t differentiate from AIT1 DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTIC TESTS To confirm the diagnosis of AIT it is necessary to demonstrate a suppressed serum TSH associated with an increase in serum FT3 and FT4 levels in a patient currently or previously treated with amiodarone. T3 levels may not be as elevated as expected as amiodarone inhibits the conversion of T4 to T3 and severe non-thyroidal illness may be present blocking the increase in T3. The presence of a preexisting thyroid disorder is suggestive for Type 1 AIT. Frequently in patients with Type 2 AIT an increased T4/T3 ratio is present as a feature of destructive thyroiditis. Thyroid antibodies may be present in Type 1 AIT depending upon the underlying thyroid disorder. High levels of thyroglobulin antibodies and TPO antibodies have also been reported in 8% of Type 2 AIT patients. Type 2 AIT develops as an inflammatory process in a normal thyroid and therefore the levels of IL-6 may be markedly elevated but typically the IL-6 levels do not distinguish AIT2 from AIT1. Color flow Doppler ultrasonography is useful to differentiate between Type 1 and Type 2 AIT. Intra-thyroidal vascular flow is increased in Type 1 AIT (pattern II-III) and reduced or absent in Type 2 (pattern 0). In many patients with Type 1 AIT the 24-hr iodine uptake is low. In rare patients with Type 1 AIT, despite the very high iodine load, a normal or inappropriately elevated 24-hr iodine uptake may be observed, especially if the patients live in an iodine deficient area. Patients with Type 2 AIT typically have a radioactive iodine uptake <
