Amiodarone Induced Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: ait, type, type ait, thyroid, patients, amiodarone, iodine, thyrotoxicosis, pubmed, levels, treatment, increased, uptake, type type, hyperthyroidism


inappropriately elevated 24-hr iodine uptake may be observed, especially if the patients live in an iodine deficient area. Patients with Type 2 AIT typically have a radioactive iodine uptake < 1%. While the distinction between Type 1 and Type 2 may sometimes be clear, in many patients neither the clinical findings nor the response to treatment clearly indicate whether the patient has Type 1 or Type 2 AIT. Some patients may have a mixed form of AIT. TREATMENT AIT may lead to increased morbidity and mortality, especially in older patients with impaired left ventricular function. Thus, in most patients, prompt restoration and stable maintenance of euthyroidism should be achieved as rapidly as possible. Mild AIT may spontaneously resolve in about 20% of the cases. Type 1 AIT should be treated with high doses of methimazole (20-60 mg/day) or propylthiouracil (400-600 mg/day) to block the synthesis of thyroid hormones ( Figure 1 ). The response to methimazole or propylthiouracil is often modest due to the high iodine levels in patients taking amiodarone. In selected patients, potassium perchlorate when available can also be used to increase sensitivity of the gland to methimazole or propylthiouracil by blocking iodine uptake in the thyroid. KClO 4 should be used for no more than 30 days at a daily dose < 1 g/day, since this drug, especially in higher doses, is associated with aplastic anemia or agranulocytosis. Once thyroid hormone levels are back to normal, definitive treatment of the hyperthyroidism should be considered. If thyroid uptake is sufficient (>10%) radioactive iodine can be used. Thyroid surgery is a good alternative. If thyrotoxicosis worsens after initial control, a mixed form Type1-Type 2 should be considered, and treatment for Type 2 AIT should be started. Type 2 AIT can be treated with prednisone, starting with an initial dose of 0.5-0.7 mg/kg body weight per day and the treatment is generally continued for three months. If a worsening of the toxicosis occurs during the taper, the prednisone dose should be increased. Methimazole and propylthiouracil are generally not useful in Type 2 AIT. Because the distinction between AIT Type 1 and 2 is difficult and not always clear, and because some patients have mixed forms of AIT, these therapies for AIT Type 1 and 2 are often combined. For patients with persistent hyperthyroidism surgery is the optimal choice. Propylthiouracil can be used to inhibit T4 to T3 conversion. Beta blockers
