International Journal of Eating Disorders
KEYWORDS: arfid, gut, microbiota, brain, food, intake, gut microbiota, gut brain, axis, eating, microbiota gut, research, microbial, brain axis, diet


ad- in ARFID manifests as limited amount and/or variety of food dress this gap of knowledge by proposing a new theoretical intake and can be driven by a range of factors including com- model for conceptualizing the pathogenesis and maintenance plaints of feeling full, sensory- based avoidance, neophobia, of ARFID within the context of the microbiota- gut- brain and fears of swallowing, choking, and/or vomiting (Norris axis (see Figure 1). This model is based on indirect evidence et al. 2014; Sanchez- Cerezo et al. 2024; Schmidt et al. 2018). from neighboured fields due to the limited direct evidence for Notably, restriction is not motivated by body image distur- ARFID. First, we explored how dietary habits characteristic bances or weight- loss intentions. Likely due to the heteroge- of ARFID could alter gut microbiota composition and func- neity in etiology, the causal mechanisms that underlie ARFID tion. By linking ARFID phenotypes to available microbiota- port that the gut microbiota (the vast community of microor- we further suggested potential biopsychological pathways ganisms within the gastrointestinal tract that communicate through which these diet- induced effects on the gut microbi- bidirectionally with the brain along the microbiota- gut- brain ota might underpin ARFID symptoms. The goal of this theo- axis to influence feeding, emotion, and cognition) is involved retical model is to form a foundation for future research with in modulation of brain and behavior and has been implicated the overall aim of deriving alternative therapeutics. in the pathogenesis of eating disorders (Carbone et al. 2021; Guo and Xiong 2024; Rantala et al. 2019; Terry, Barnett, and Gibson 2022). 2 | ARFID Dietary Composition and the Gut Microbiota The microbiota- gut- brain axis comprises pathways through which the gut and brain communicate including vagal, Individuals with ARFID have reduced fruit, vegetable, and immune, and endocrine signaling . protein intake but higher intake of added sugars and total car- Additionally, microbial metabolites, such as short- chain fatty bohydrates . This pattern of dietary in- acids (SCFAs; e.g., butyrate) produced by microbial fermen- take, combined with the homogeneous diet typical of ARFID, is tions to influence brain function. Although several factors that a varied diet rich in fiber, polyphenols, fermented foods, modify microbiota- gut- brain axis signaling, diet is among the and unsaturated fatty acids consistently supports a diverse gut most profound manipulators (Johnson et al. 2019; Schneider, microbiota and the enrichment of beneficial bacteria capable of
