International Journal of Eating Disorders
KEYWORDS: arfid, gut, microbiota, brain, food, intake, gut microbiota, gut brain, axis, eating, microbiota gut, research, microbial, brain axis, diet


diet is among the and unsaturated fatty acids consistently supports a diverse gut most profound manipulators (Johnson et al. 2019; Schneider, microbiota and the enrichment of beneficial bacteria capable of O'Riordan et al. 2024). Indeed, a healthy diet rich in various producing metabolites that signal to the brain in humans (Singh macro- and micronutrients nurtures a diverse gut microbi- et al. 2017). Specifically, SCFAs produced from microbial me- ota with high functional capacity to digest and synthesize tabolism of fiber are essential regulators of brain function with nutrients, alongside enrichment of microbial metabolites ca- deficiencies linked to anxiety, depression, and anorexia ner- pable of signaling to the brain . However, vosa (Monteleone et al. 2021; Prochazkova et al. 2021; Simpson the diet of individuals with ARFID is often homogenous and et al. 2021). Adequate intake of protein- rich foods is further nutrient- depleted, suggesting potential detrimental effects necessary to supply the gut microbiota with a precursor to se- on the microbiota- gut- brain axis that contribute to ARFID rotonin (tryptophan), a key neurotransmitter that influences symptomatology. Moreover, the high prevalence of gastroin- feeding and emotion . On the other hand, a diet testinal symptoms and disorders of gut- brain interaction in that is fiber- deficient, but high in processed and refined sugars 2322 International Journal of Eating Disorders, 2024 FIGURE 1 | The pathophysiological microbiota- gut- brain- axis model of avoidant/restrictive food intake disorder (ARFID). Evidence suggests that the microbiota- gut- brain- axis plays a pathophysiological role in the onset and maintenance of symptoms of ARFID. A restricted diet in amount and variety of foods, including fiber and protein- rich foods, promotes a specialized microbiota, thus depleting microbial diversity and their metabolites, including short- chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and vitamins. High amounts of refined/processed sugar increase peripheral inflammation. Bidirectional biopsychological pathways through which these nutrition-i nduced effects on the gut microbiota contribute to ARFID phenotypes include: homeostatic intake, food reward, interoception, sensory sensitivity, disgust, perseveration, fear- based learning, and mood. Candidate biological mechanisms include vagal, inflammatory, and endocrinological signaling via microbial metabolites. GLP- 1: glucagon- like peptide 1. HPA: hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal. PYY: peptide YY. and saturated fats, generally reduces the abundance of benefi- 3 | Biopsychological Pathways Related to ARFID cial bacteria, stimulating peripheral and central inflammation Phenotypes and Microbiota- Gut- Brain Axis in rodents while creating susceptibility to infection (Berding et al. 2021). Furthermore, individuals with ARFID report lower Some
