International Journal of Eating Disorders
KEYWORDS: arfid, gut, microbiota, brain, food, intake, gut microbiota, gut brain, axis, eating, microbiota gut, research, microbial, brain axis, diet


bacteria, stimulating peripheral and central inflammation Phenotypes and Microbiota- Gut- Brain Axis in rodents while creating susceptibility to infection (Berding et al. 2021). Furthermore, individuals with ARFID report lower Some individuals with ARFID restrict intake due to feeling intake than controls of micronutrients, including B and K vita- full, potentially reflecting disturbances in homeostatic intake mins, zinc, iron, and potassium (Harshman et al. 2019; Schmidt signaling. Indeed, lower fasting leptin levels and increased et al. 2021). Importantly, certain gut microbes synthesize vita- cholecystokinin, alongside blunted postprandial ghrelin mins B and K, with several butyrate- producing bacteria being and peptide YY responses, have been shown in individuals dependent upon endogenous and host- supplied B- vitamins with ARFID (Aulinas et al. 2020; Becker et al. 2021; Murray . This loss of SCFAs can have further nega- et al. 2022). Notably, SCFAs modulate leptin, ghrelin, glucagon- tive consequences, given their role in mineral bioavailability like peptide- 1, and PYY secretion, while L- tryptophan stimu- through promoting iron absorption (Yilmaz and Li 2018). It has lates cholecystokinin, glucagon- like peptide- 1, and peptide YY also been shown that microbial vitamin synthesis varies with . Tryptophan has been further implicated malnutritional status , indicating bidirec- in selection of carbohydrates, such that bacterial genes in- tional effects of host- microbe nutrient supply. Such effects likely volved in the metabolism of tryptophan and plasma tryptophan perpetuate a vicious cycle of micronutrient deficiency with availability influenced voluntary carbohydrate intake in mice implications on appetite, mood, and cognition (Benton 2008; (Trevelline and Kohl 2022). At the hedonic level, individuals Ghrayeb et al. 2020). Finally, iron supplementation in children with ARFID report apathy to eating, and increasing enjoyment has been shown to reduce the abundance of beneficial bacteria to food is an objective in some cognitive- behavioral treatments and promote peripheral inflammation (Tang et al. 2017; Yilmaz (Burton-M urray et al. 2024; Thomas et al. 2017). Intriguingly, and Li 2018; Zimmermann et al. 2010), suggesting a counterpro- fecal microbiota transplantation of stool samples from obese ductive worsening of gut microbiota health. Given the high rates mice into naïve mice altered hedonic feeding in recipient of micronutrient supplementation in ARFID, evidence- based mice and striatal dopaminergic activity (de Wouters d'Oplin- strategies—for example, possibly through concurrent prebiotic ter et al. 2021). In humans, fecal microbiota- derived indole, a supplementation—for mitigating the negative effects of supple- tryptophan metabolite, correlated with brain activity in
