International Journal of Eating Disorders
KEYWORDS: arfid, gut, microbiota, brain, food, intake, gut microbiota, gut brain, axis, eating, microbiota gut, research, microbial, brain axis, diet


example, possibly through concurrent prebiotic ter et al. 2021). In humans, fecal microbiota- derived indole, a supplementation—for mitigating the negative effects of supple- tryptophan metabolite, correlated with brain activity in reward- . Taken together, it is possible that reduced 4 | Moderating Risk Factors tryptophan availability to gut microbes as a result of inadequate protein intake could have downstream effects on food choice/ Biopsychological risk factors increasing the likelihood of intake relevant to ARFID. Disturbances in gut- brain signaling ARFID are likely to moderate the relationship between gut mi- could further implicate interoceptive unawareness and inaccu- crobiota and ARFID. Fundamentally, there is a genetic com- racy as a potential aetiological driver of perceived fullness in ponent to both the expression of ARFID ARFID (Bonaz et al. 2021; Zucker et al. 2019). In parallel, the and the gut- brain crosstalk , which is field can learn from previous studies linking ARFID to disor- likely to play a critical role in this relationship. Age of onset ders of gut- brain interactions, which also implicate interocep- could be another key factor. Colonization of the gut microbi- tive processes (Burton- Murray et al. 2022; Murray et al. 2021; ota begins at birth and is highly malleable in childhood until Weeks et al. 2023). gradually reaching stable composition into adulthood (Cryan et al. 2019). Coinciding with this colonization, food neophobia The sensory components of the food item also determine food frequently peaks from ages 2 to 6 . Given intake in ARFID . Sensory sensitivities to the robust link between food diversity and microbial diversity, food, in addition to food neophobia and disgust, are common restricted food variety in the early years is proposed to have a features of autism spectrum disorder (ASD), a disorder often larger effect on gut microbiota than restricted food amount, comorbid with ARFID (Farag et al. 2022; Harris et al. 2019; although quantity has also been shown to alter microbial Jayashankar and Aziz- Zadeh 2023). There is a larger body of composition (Zmora, Suez, and Elinav 2019). It is thus possi- research linking gut microbiota composition/functionality to ble that early life neophobia and homogenous diet limits nu- ASD that might provide some insight into ARFID (Gonçalves trient delivery to the developing gut microbiota, consequently et al. 2024), including the transferral of perseverative behaviors permanently shaping composition/functionality. Evaluation in recipient mice transplanted with fecal microbiota from ASD of this hypothesis may
