International Journal of Eating Disorders
KEYWORDS: arfid, gut, microbiota, brain, food, intake, gut microbiota, gut brain, axis, eating, microbiota gut, research, microbial, brain axis, diet


developing gut microbiota, consequently et al. 2024), including the transferral of perseverative behaviors permanently shaping composition/functionality. Evaluation in recipient mice transplanted with fecal microbiota from ASD of this hypothesis may explain why individuals with longer- donors . Remarkably, it was recently shown term symptoms have poorer prognosis than counterparts with that a restrictive diet in variety typical of ASD reduced microbial shorter- term symptoms (Zimmerman and Fisher 2017). In diversity and loosened stool consistency in children, thus medi- keeping with this hypothesis, children with ARFID who con- ating the relationship between gut microbiota and ASD (Hung sumed a greater variety of foods during childhood would be and Margolis 2024; Yap et al. 2021). It will be interesting to ex- expected to have a more diverse gut microbiota and therefore plore if homogenous diets explain, at least partially, the comor- less severity of symptoms. The addition of psychosocial stress- bidity between ARFID and ASD. ors during these critical periods of development could exac- erbate symptom development. For example, early- life stress Fear- based learning plays a key role in the ARFID subtype has been shown to alter gut microbiota, corticosterone, and associated with avoidance of certain foods due to previous systemic immune responses in mice (O'Mahony et al. 2009). aversive consequences of food intake, such as choking, vom- Adverse experiences, including childhood abuse, trauma, iting, or allergic reactions . Manipulation invasive postnatal procedures (e.g., gastric tube), or parental of the gut microbiota through transient antibiotic depletion or pressure to eat in response to avoidant/restrictive food intake longer- term absence of microbes from birth (i.e., germ- free) and low bodyweight (Brosig et al. 2023; Eichler et al. 2019; induced deficits in fear extinction learning in adult mice, Mitchell et al. 2024), are therefore predicted to increase symp- with restoration from intervention being dependent upon tom severity. intervention in the neonatal period (Chu et al. 2019; Cowan et al. 2018; Hoban et al. 2018). In humans, a combination of SCFAs delivered to the colon protected against psychological 5 | Discussion stress- induced cortisol increase, while butyrate alone mod- ulated fear conditioning and extinction in adult men (Dalile As in many disorders that have implicated the microbiome, et al. 2020, 2024). More research is needed to understand how a key question in evaluating the role of the gut microbiota in aversive experiences and SCFAs interact with developmental ARFID is cause or consequence. Given the
