International Journal of Eating Disorders
KEYWORDS: arfid, gut, microbiota, brain, food, intake, gut microbiota, gut brain, axis, eating, microbiota gut, research, microbial, brain axis, diet


needed to understand how a key question in evaluating the role of the gut microbiota in aversive experiences and SCFAs interact with developmental ARFID is cause or consequence. Given the individual nature periods in ARFID. of the gut microbiota to metabolize specific foods (Johnson et al. 2019), it is possible that baseline microbial composi- Prior to the inclusion of ARFID as a standalone eating disorder tion predisposes individuals to ARFID. Longitudinal de- in 2013, a subtype of childhood eating disorders was described signs that track individuals prior to symptom onset will be as “food avoidance emotional disorder” wherein anxiety and critical in determining directionality. A recent systematic depression occurred with restricted feeding (Nicholls and review reported a prevalence range of ARFID symptoms in Bryant- Waugh 2009). Such comorbidities continue to be ob- general populations ranging from 0.3% to 15.5% (Sanchez- served following introduction of the current guidelines for Cerezo et al. 2023). Prospective, population- based cohorts ARFID diagnosis , indicating another that follow individuals from birth with longitudinal stool possible ARFID phenotype with connections to gut micro- samples and eating behavior measures and/or food intake biota. Indeed, there is consistent data demonstrating robust data (e.g., LIFE Child Study (Germany; N = 3000) (Poulain alterations in mood in germ- free rodents , et al. 2017), Generation R Study (Netherlands; N = 9000), and depressive symptoms have been successfully attenuated Danish National Birth Cohort (Denmark; N = 100,000)) are in two patients with treatment- resistant depression following positioned to capture this prevalence. The data from these fecal microbiota transplantation from a euthymic donor (Doll cohorts should be leveraged to determine the causal role of et al. 2022). the gut microbiota in avoidant/restrictive food intake relevant 2324 International Journal of Eating Disorders, 2024 to ARFID. Randomized controlled trials with nutrition (e.g., Taken together, viewing ARFID through the lens of the fiber, protein) or supplementation intervention can further microbiota- gut- brain axis offers a novel approach to understand- add valuable insights about causality of the gut microbiota. ing its pathophysiology and the potential for designing new ther- Large sample sizes are needed to link phenotypes with micro- apeutic strategies. Because of its malleable nature, changing the bial composition and add clarity to the heterogeneity charac- microbiome also offers hope to patients with this poorly under- teristic of ARFID. Multimodal outcomes including self- report stood disorder. mood, nutritional intake, eating behavior, and brain imaging (e.g.,
