International Journal of Eating Disorders
KEYWORDS: arfid, gut, microbiota, brain, food, intake, gut microbiota, gut brain, axis, eating, microbiota gut, research, microbial, brain axis, diet


charac- microbiome also offers hope to patients with this poorly under- teristic of ARFID. Multimodal outcomes including self- report stood disorder. mood, nutritional intake, eating behavior, and brain imaging (e.g., positron emission tomography imaging for dopamine signaling) are necessary to provide a comprehensive overview of pathophysiology. Biological sampling of gut microbiota Author Contributions composition and their metabolites, inflammation, and corti- Elizabeth Schneider: conceptualization, methodology, writing – sol is essential for determining mechanisms of action. Finally, original draft, writing – review and editing. Ricarda Schmidt: concep- preclinical models can also be exploited to gain both causal tualization, methodology, writing – review and editing. John F. Cryan: conceptualization, methodology, supervision, writing – review and ed- and mechanistic insights not otherwise possible in humans. iting. Anja Hilbert: conceptualization, methodology, writing – review For example, assessment of phenotype transferal from fecal and editing. microbiota transplantation of human donors with ARFID into naïve recipient rodents would untangle directionality and in- Acknowledgments form causality. APC Microbiome Ireland is a research centre funded by Science Foundation Ireland (SFI) through the Irish Government's national de- velopment plan (grant no. 12/RC/2273_P2). ES is funded by a Research 5.1 | Implications for Novel Therapeutics Ireland Postdoctoral Fellowship [GOIPD/2024/273]. This work was supported by the German Society of Behavior Medicine and Behavior ARFID treatment (American Psychiatric Association 2013). Collaborative Award awarded to ES, as well as a private philanthropy Future research that evaluates this proposed pathophysiologi- donation awarded to JFC. The funding sources had no involvement cal model of microbiota- gut- brain axis and ARFID could open in the decision to submit this manuscript for publication. The authors would like to thank Dr. Kenneth J O'Riordan for support with the fig- new avenues for novel treatments that target the gut microbi- ure. Open access funding provided by IReL. ota. Whole foods items that are fiber- rich (e.g., fruits, vegeta- bles) or fermented (e.g., yogurt, kimchi) have been shown to exert beneficial effects on the microbiota- gut- brain axis in clin- Conflicts of Interest ical and nonclinical populations (Schneider, Balasubramanian Author ES has received honorarium from Janssen Sciences Ireland et al. 2024). Moreover, whole foods modulate the gut microbi- UC. JFC has received research funding from Dupont/IFF Kerry Foods ota more than individual nutrients , and and has been an invited speaker at meetings organized by Bromotech. Author AH reports receiving research grants from the German the effects of whole food interventions
