BFMORA
KEYWORDS: meq, potassium, paracetamol, med, liver, day, normal, september, case, brit, urinary, damage, brit med, plasma, october


3 mm./hour concentration of 76 mg./100 ml. is compatible with the (Westergren). estimated intake of 70 tablets (35 g.), as after ingestion of 2 g. On 13 September an oral glucose-tolerance test with 50 g. of of paracetamol, serum concentrations of up to 5 mg./100 ml. glucose was abnormal, with a fasting blood-sugar level of 106 may be expected in normal subjects (Prescott and Conney, mg./100 ml., rising to 276 mg./100 ml. at one hour and falling unpublished data). to 184 mg./100 ml. at two hours (see Chart, curve 1). A 2,000- Apart from the blindness (which we cannot explain), the calorie diet containing 200 g. of carbohydrate was therefore started presenting clinical features were unremarkable. It was not until on 14 September together with 100 mg. of chlorpropamide daily. With no other treatment his general condition improved, there was sixdays after theparacetamol was taken that jaundiceappeared; no further glycosuria, and his vision returned to normal. and had it not been for the initial finding of glycosuria the patient might well have been discharged home on the second On 17 September he was noticed to be icteric, and although the liver was not enlarged clinically, he complained of upper abdominal or third day with the liver damage unrecognized. The results pain. of the liver-function tests suggest hepatocellular damage rather 27 August 1966 Medical Memoranda DCBRALmisHNAL 507 than cholestasis. Until recently there have been no clinical an undoubtedly stressful situation may have unmasked a laten reports of liver damage associated with administration of diabetes. Unfortunately the patient has been unwilling tg paracetamol. However, Davidson and Eastham (1966) have return for further glucose-tolerance studies. Since both case now recorded two cases of liver necrosis ascribed to overdosage described by Davidson and Eastham (1966) had hypoglycaemix of paracetamol. Both patients had hypoglycaemia and neither (presumably due to massive hepatic necrosis), it is importan survived. In addition, we know of two other unpublished cases that a close watch be kept on the blood sugar levels of patient: of liver damage after intake of large amounts of paracetamol. who have taken large amounts of paracetamol. A 13-year-old girl died with "massive toxic necrosis of the We should like to thank Dr. D. S. Short forpermission to publisi liver" five days after taking at least 15 g. of the drug, and a the details of this case and for helpful criticism. Our thanks ar woman aged
