Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


ABSTRACT In this chapter, we review the etiology and pathogenesis of Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM), with particular emphasis on the most common immune mediated form. Whereas Type 2 diabetes (T2DM) appears to be an increasing price paid for worldwide societal affluence, there is also evidence worldwide of a rising tide of T1DM. The increase in understanding of the pathogenesis of T1DM has made it possible to consider interventions to slow the autoimmune disease process in an attempt to delay or even prevent the onset or slow the progression of hyperglycemia. Although the prevention of T1DM is still at the stage of research trials, the trials are often mentioned in the lay press. Current investigations will determine if antigen-based therapies can in fact abrogate ongoing autoimmunity via immuno-stimulation and ultimately prevent diabetes in humans without the risks of general immunosuppression. We also review the etiology and pathogenesis of T2DM and monogenic forms of diabetes that may be confused with T1DM or T2DM. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Diabetes Mellitus (DM) is a syndrome of disturbed metabolism involving carbohydrate, protein, and fat which results from the degree of insulin deficiency (absolute or relative) and tissue sensitivity to its actions. The combination(s) of insulin deficiency and sensitivity to its actions bring about distinct clinical phenotypes with varying severity of disturbed metabolism, most conveniently monitored by the degree of hyperglycemia. Absolute insulin deficiency (Type 1 DM) occurs with autoimmune destruction of insulin secreting β-cells (Type 1A DM) and other congenital (genetic defects in the formation or function of the endocrine pancreas), or acquired (relapsing pancreatitis and pancreatectomy) conditions. Absolute deficiency of insulin action also can occur in the total absence of insulin receptors, a rare event. Relative insulin deficiency occurs with genetic or acquired defects in insulin synthesis or secretion that are inadequate to overcome the resistance caused by fewer functioning insulin receptors, or resistance to insulin action induced by stress, drugs, and most commonly obesity (Type 2 DM).The acute clinical manifestations are those related to hyperglycemia which exceeds renal threshold to result in polyuria, increased thirst, dehydration, electrolyte disturbances, weight loss, and metabolic decompensation, in extreme degree known as diabetic ketoacidosis and non-ketotic hyperosmolar coma. The chronic complications include macrovascular (CAD, CVD, amputations) and microvascular (retinopathy, nephropathy, neuropathy) lesions. Both the acute and chronic complications are inversely related to
