Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


diabetic ketoacidosis and non-ketotic hyperosmolar coma. The chronic complications include macrovascular (CAD, CVD, amputations) and microvascular (retinopathy, nephropathy, neuropathy) lesions. Both the acute and chronic complications are inversely related to the degree of metabolic control achieved. These brief introductory comments form the basis for the etiology, pathogenesis, classification and diagnosis of diabetes mellitus. Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes The American Diabetes Association Standards of Medical Care for Diabetes 2021( 1 ) proposes the following classification ( Table 1 ). Table 1. Classification of Diabetes View in own window Type 1 Diabetes owing to autoimmune destruction of insulin secreting β-cells leading to insulin deficiency Type 2 Diabetes owing to inadequate insulin secretion that cannot overcome the existing degree of insulin resistance Gestational diabetes (diabetes diagnosed in the second or third trimester of pregnancy that is not clearly overt diabetes) Diabetes owing to other causes Monogenetic diabetes syndromes (neonatal diabetes, maturity-onset diabetes of the young [MODY]) Disease of the exocrine pancreas (cystic fibrosis, pancreatitis, pancreatectomy) Medication induced (glucocorticoids, treatment of HIV/AIDS, immunosuppressants, chemotherapeutic agents) Criteria for the Diagnosis of Diabetes Mellitus The Expert Committee on the Diagnosis and Classification of Diabetes Mellitus recommends the following criteria for diagnosing DM ( 1 ). Two replicate fasting glucose levels that exceed 126 mg/dl (>7 mmol/L) is consistent with diabetes even in the absence of symptoms. Normal fasting blood glucose levels of 100 mg/dl or above are considered impaired fasting glucose (IFG). Persons with IFG levels (FPG= 100-125 mg/dl (5.66.9 mmol/l) and/or with impaired glucose tolerance test (IGT) (2hour post-load glucose 140-199 mg/dl (78.8 mmol/L-11.1 mmol/L) are at risk of diabetes and should be observed periodically to detect hyperglycemic progression. Replicate, two-hour glycemic responses >200 mg/dl (>11.1 mmol/L) after a standard oral glucose tolerance test also indicate diabetes. This stage is often reached before the fasting glucose levels rise in T2DM and post-prandial hyperglycemia may precede fasting hyperglycemia by months to years. The reliance on only fasting glucose levels is generally more useful for identification of impending T1D but not for T2D. The ADA now recommends that measurement of HbA1c levels can be used in clinical practice for the diagnosis of diabetes, since the onset is seldom so acute that it will not be reflected in elevated HbA1c levels Table 2 ( 1 ). Table 2. The American Diabetes Association Diagnostic Guidelines ( 1 , 2 ) View in own window Stage Latent Impaired glucose
