Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


in elevated HbA1c levels Table 2 ( 1 ). Table 2. The American Diabetes Association Diagnostic Guidelines ( 1 , 2 ) View in own window Stage Latent Impaired glucose tolerance Diabetes Diagnostic criteria Presence of 2 or more autoantibodies AND Normal glucose levels Fasting plasma glucose: 100-125 mg/dl OR 2hour plasma glucose during OGTT*: 140-199 mg/dl OR HbA1C + : 5.7-6.4% Fasting plasma glucose: ≥126 mg/dL OR 2hour plasma glucose during OGTT*: ≥200 mg/dl OR Random plasma glucose: ≥200 mg/dl with symptoms of polyuria, and weight loss. OR HbA1C + ≥6.5%. * The OGTT should be performed as described by the World Health Organization (1.75 gm/kg up to 75 gm, using a glucose load containing anhydrous glucose dissolved in water). ETIOLOGIC CLASSIFICATION Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) comprises several diseases of the pancreatic ß cells which lead to an absolute insulin deficiency. This is usually considered to be the result of an autoimmune destruction of the pancreatic ß cells (type 1A). Some patients with T1DM with no evidence of ß cell autoimmunity have underlying defects in insulin secretion often from inherited defects in pancreatic ß cell glucose sensing and from other genetic or acquired diseases. Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is by far the more common type of diabetes and is characterized by insulin resistance resulting from defects in the action of insulin on its target tissues (muscle, liver, and fat), but complicated by varying and usually progressive failure of beta cells’ insulin secretary capacity. Most patients with T2DM in the US and Europe are overweight or obese, however in India and China, most T2DM patients have a lean body mass index (BMI), albeit with increased visceral and hepatic fat. Monogenic Diabetes Monogenic forms of diabetes are characterized by impaired secretion of insulin from pancreatic β cells caused by a single gene mutation. These forms comprise a genetically heterogenous group of diabetes including, maturity onset diabetes of the young (MODY), permanent or transient neonatal diabetes, and mitochondrial diabetes. MODY is the most common form of monogenic diabetes, with autosomal dominant transmission of one of several genes encoding a primary defect in insulin secretion. TYPE 1 DIABETES MELLITUS Epidemiology of Type 1 Diabetes T1DM is one of the most common chronic diseases of childhood and is classified as an autoimmune disease. Most common autoimmune disorders predominantly affect females, but, T1DM equally affects
