Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


Diabetes T1DM is one of the most common chronic diseases of childhood and is classified as an autoimmune disease. Most common autoimmune disorders predominantly affect females, but, T1DM equally affects males and females with a slight male predominance in younger children. This and other inconsistencies have raised questions as to whether T1DM is a “pure” auto-immune disease or whether the auto-immune component is a marker of a separate primary trigger ( 3 , 4 ). We discuss these issues later in this chapter. The incidence and prevalence of T1DM vary by age, season, geographic location, and within different racial and ethnic groups. Of cases diagnosed before the age of 20, however, two peaks of T1DM presentation are observed; one between 5 and 7 years of age, and the other during puberty at the mid-teens ( 5 ). However, first presentation of T1DM actually is as common in adulthood as it is in childhood and is characterized by a milder course in adults; the term LADA, (Latent, Auto-immune, Diabetes of Adults) is used to describe this entity. A seasonal variation in the incidence of T1DM is also observed; the majority of new cases of T1DM are diagnosed mostly in autumn and winter ( 6 ). Findings from large T1DM registry studies such as the World Health Organization Multinational Project for Childhood Diabetes, known as the DIAMOND Project, EURODIAB and others monitor incidence and other epidemiological markers. The World Health Organization Multinational Project for Childhood Diabetes, known as the DIAMOND Project (in 50 countries), EURODIAB (in Europe), and SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth (in the USA) were established to address the implications of diabetes in youth and describe the incidence of T1DM. Wide variations in incidence of T1DM exist throughout the world, lowest in China and Venezuela (0.1 per 100,000 per year) and highest in Finland and Sardinia (50-60 per 100,000 per year) ( 7 ). A multicenter study focusing on identifying the prevalence and incidence of diabetes by type, age, gender, and ethnicity found a 1.8% annual increase in the prevalence of T1DM among American youth from 2002-2003 to 2011-2012, whereas T2DM had increased 4.8% annually from 2002-2003 to 2011-2012 ( Table 3 ) ( 8 ). The greatest increase was seen in youth of minority racial/ethnic groups ( 8 ). Similar rates of increase in T2DM in teens are reported from the UK, India, China and Japan. Table 3. Incidence
