Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


islets are specialized groups of a few hundred to a few thousand endocrine cells that are anatomically and functionally discrete from pancreatic exocrine tissue, the primary function of which is to secrete pancreatic enzymes into the duodenum. Normal subjects have about one million islets, which in total weigh only 1-2 grams and constitute less than 1% of the mass of the pancreas. Furthermore, islets are composed of various types of cells that are interconnected as a regulatory network to regulate the disposition of nutrients and their utilization for energy use and tissue growth and repair. At least 70% are ß cells localized in the core of the islets, surrounded by α-cells that secrete glucagon, δ-cells that secrete somatostatin, and PP cells that secrete pancreatic polypeptide. All the cells communicate with each other through their extracellular spaces and through gap junctions; communication is further modulated by a rich network of sympathetic and para sympathetic innervation. Insulin, a peptide hormone composed of 51 amino acids is synthesized, packaged and secreted in pancreatic ß cells. Insulin is synthesized as preproinsulin in the ribosomes of rough endoplasmic reticulum. The preproinsulin is then cleaved to proinsulin that is transported to the Golgi apparatus where it is packaged into secretory granules. Most of the proinsulin is cleaved into equimolar amounts of insulin and connecting (or C)-peptide in the secretory granules. Because the C-peptide sequence differs from that of insulin, and because, unlike insulin, it is not extracted by the liver, it is possible to estimate β-cell insulin secretion by measuring C-peptide, even in the presence of insulin antibodies resulting from insulin replacement therapy that impair the ability to measure insulin directly. Similarly, because C-peptide is an index of endogenous insulin secretion, and because C-peptide is not extracted by the liver, the ratio of C-peptide: insulin should exceed 1; when it is less than 1, implying a high insulin value, exogenous insulin may have been used. This has diagnostic and forensic utility in diagnosing causes of hypoglycemia. Glucose is a major regulator of insulin secretion ( Figure 2 ). When extracellular fluid glucose concentrations rise after a meal, glucose is taken up by the ß cells via glucose transporters, GLUT2 and GLUT1. Glucose is then phosphorylated into glucose-6-phosphate by islet specific glucokinase and metabolized, thereby increasing cellular ATP concentrations. The rise in ATP raises the resting ratio of ATP:ADP, that closes ATP dependent potassium channels (K-ATP) in
