Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


glucose-6-phosphate by islet specific glucokinase and metabolized, thereby increasing cellular ATP concentrations. The rise in ATP raises the resting ratio of ATP:ADP, that closes ATP dependent potassium channels (K-ATP) in the β-cell membrane, resulting in accumulation of intracellular potassium, causing membrane depolarization and influx of calcium via a voltage gated calcium channel. The rise in intracellular free calcium in ß-cells promotes margination of the secretory granules, their fusion with the cell membrane, and release of cell contents which include insulin into the extracellular space. An immediately releasable pool of insulin granules adjacent to the plasma membrane is responsible for an acute (first phase) insulin response; with ongoing stimulation, a pool of granules in the interior of the cell is mobilized and released as the “second phase” response. Amino acids also stimulate insulin release by a similar mechanism that involves the enzyme glutamate dehydrogenase which enables metabolism and ATP production by certain amino acids. Defects in the genes regulating these processes may result in diabetes if the K-ATP channel is prevented from closing normally (activating mutations) or syndromes of hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia if the K-ATP channel is prevented from opening (inactivating mutations). These aspects are discussed in greater detail in the section on Monogenic forms of diabetes (see below). Figure 2. Insulin secretion by Pancreatic β cells. In the stimulated state, glucose is transported into the β cell by the GLUT2 transporter which undergoes phosphorylation by glucokinase and glucose is then metabolized. This results in an increase in the ATP/ADP ratio and initiation of a cascade of events that is characterized by closure of the K-ATP channel, decreased flux of potassium across the membrane, membrane depolarization, and calcium influx. This cascade ultimately results in insulin release from storage granules. The K-ATP channel shown is composed of four small subunits, Kir6.2, that surround a central pore and four larger regulatory subunits constituting SUR1. In the resting state, the potassium channel is open, modulated by the ratio of ATP to ADP. Leucine also stimulates insulin secretion by allosterically activating GDH and by increasing the oxidation of glutamate; this then increases the ATPADP ratio leading to the cascade of events beginning with closure of the KATP channel. MCT-1: Monocarboxylate transporter-1, SCHAD: Short chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase, SUR1: Sulfonylurea receptor 1, Kir 6.2: Potassium Inward Rectifying Channel 6.2, UCP-2: Uncoupling protein 2, HNF4α: Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor 4α, HNF1 α: Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor 4α, K+: Potassium, ATP: Adenosine
