Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


SUR1: Sulfonylurea receptor 1, Kir 6.2: Potassium Inward Rectifying Channel 6.2, UCP-2: Uncoupling protein 2, HNF4α: Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor 4α, HNF1 α: Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor 4α, K+: Potassium, ATP: Adenosine Triphosphate, GDH: Glutamate Dehydrogenase, GLUT-2: Glucose Transporter 2 Metabolic Derangements of Type 1 Diabetes As the pancreatic ß cell mass declines in an islet cell antibody (ICA) positive person, the first metabolic abnormality discernable is a decline in the first phase of insulin release (FPIR) to an IVGTT ( 18 ). The insulin level after a 3-4 minute infusion of glucose at 0.5Gms/kg rises abruptly in normal children at about 8 years of age, perhaps coincident with the onset of adrenarche ( 19 ). In the relatives and children from the general population with positive ICA, a decline in the FPIR is a strong predictive marker of evolving diabetes ( 19 - 21 ). Subsequently, in evolving T1DM there is a rise in the fasting glucose level followed by an inability to keep the two-hour, post-OGTT glucose level below 200mg/dl (11.1mM). Transient insulin resistance also occurs in untreated T1DM and is due to raised levels of free fatty acids (FFAs) from uncontrolled lipolysis ( 22 ), as well as decreased levels of hepatic glucokinase and insulin regulated GLUT 4 glucose transporters in adipocytes which contribute to the onset of symptomatic diabetes ( 23 - 25 ). Prolonged hyperglycemia itself likely impairs the ability to secrete insulin and when insulin replacement therapy begins, there is usually some recovery in the patient's ability to secrete insulin (the "honeymoon" period). However, within months to years, this partial recovery in endogenous insulin secretion ultimately fails. If it does not fail after 2 years, another form of diabetes, such as MODY should be suspected. Initially, the glucagon secreting cells within the pancreatic islets remain relatively preserved, resulting in excessive secretion of glucagon relative to insulin after protein meals ( 26 ). These elevated glucagon levels exacerbate the effects of the insulin deficiency, and promote lipolysis and ketogenesis, effects that can be partially reversed by an infusion of somatostatin ( 27 ). As the mass of islet cells decline, there is also loss of amylin, an islet cell hormone that down-regulates glucagon secretion. Thus, an analogue of amylin (pramlintide- marketed under the trade name Symlin) can be used as adjunctive therapy with insulin replacement. In time, with continued loss of islets, glucagon deficiency develops in established
