Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


of amylin (pramlintide- marketed under the trade name Symlin) can be used as adjunctive therapy with insulin replacement. In time, with continued loss of islets, glucagon deficiency develops in established long standing T1DM, rendering patients more susceptible to insulin-induced hypoglycemia ( 26 , 28 ). Insulin is the hormone of "feasting", promoting utilization and deposition of ingested nutrients into body stores, as well as having multiple anabolic effects in many tissues. Progressive insulin deficiency thus induces a starvation like state, associated with excessive hepatic and renal gluconeogenesis, decreased peripheral utilization of glucose, hyperglycemia with resultant glycosuria, loss of water and sodium salts, and proteolysis in muscle liberating amino acids such as alanine and glutamine as substrates for gluconeogenesis ( 29 - 31 ). Uncontrolled lipolysis leads to the rapid mobilization of fatty acids from adipose tissue and the increased delivery of fatty acids to the liver leading to the increased synthesis of triglycerides and secretion of very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL). With severe insulin deficiency the fatty acids delivered to the liver are metabolized to yield beta hydroxybutyric and aceto-acetic acids (ketone bodies) and contribute to keto-acidosis. Ketoacidosis is a life-threatening metabolic decompensation that is characterized by hyperglycemia, dehydration, metabolic acidosis and ketosis, all the result of the effects of severe insulin deficiency as well as the counter-regulatory stress hormones, cortisol, growth hormone, catecholamines and glucagon. Specifically, hepatic glucokinase levels fall with insulinopenia, synthesis of hepatic triglyceride and glycogen levels decline, malonyl CoA falls and thereby carnitine palmitoyl transferase-I levels rise promoting the transport of fatty acyl-CoA into mitochondria with the formation of acetyl-CoA ( 32 - 34 ). In the liver, acetyl-CoA is converted into ß-hydroxybutyrate and acetoacetate in a proportion that depends upon the prevailing redox state, which provide an additional fuel substrate s for muscle and brain ( 31 , 35 , 36 ). Lipoprotein lipases are also inactivated, leading to reduced hydrolysis of triglycerides that, if severe, may turn the serum milky with increased VLDL characteristic of the type 4 lipemic phenotype ( 37 - 39 ). Genetic Susceptibility to Type 1 Diabetes Individuals with autoimmune T1DM have inherited a number of quantitative trait loci (QTL) that encode protective and predisposing alleles which have exceeded the net genetic threshold required to predispose them to the disease ( 40 ). However, this genetic threshold (penetrance) is dependent in turn on chance interactions with greater predisposing than protective environmental
