Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


genetic threshold required to predispose them to the disease ( 40 ). However, this genetic threshold (penetrance) is dependent in turn on chance interactions with greater predisposing than protective environmental forces. The multiple genetic influences in T1DM comprise a major effect from DR/DQ genotypes of the HLA complex (some 50% of the genetic effect), coupled to several other QTLs with minor influences ( Table 4 ). All of the latter QTLs are not obligatory genetic elements themselves since they are of minor-influence, but they collectively interact to create additive influences on the genetic threshold. Siblings of a diabetic patient develop T1DM at about 15-fold greater frequency than persons in the general population (prevalence 1:250-300), vs. a value of 15. The HLA predisposition to T1DM is encoded by cis- and trans complementation DQA1*/DQB1* heterodimers which have an arginine at residue 52 of the A chain and a neutral amino acid (DQB1*0302, *0201) rather than a charged aspartic acid at residue 57 of the B chain (DQB1*0602/3 and DQB1*0301) ( 40 ), as modified by DRB1*04 subtypes (*0401 and *0405 are susceptible and *0403 and 6 are resistant types) ( 41 ) in the HLA genotype. Further, HLA-DP alleles have also been implicated, even though they are at a considerable recombination frequency away from the closely linked DR/DQ loci ( 42 ). Other genes involved include the variable number of tandem repeat (VNTR) alleles 5' to the insulin (INS) gene on chromosome 11p15, where the protective class III alleles (>200 repeats) are associated with increased expression of insulin in the thymus, leading to a more efficient eradication of insulin autoreactive T cells than class I alleles (26-63 repeats) that confer susceptibility to develop diabetes ( 43 , 44 ). There are also CTLA-4 gene polymorphisms on chromosome 2q that are associated with T1DM. CTLA-4 is an induced accessory molecule that is expressed on activated T cells. CTLA-4 interacts with B7.2 expressed by antigen presenting cells (APC), signaling apoptosis of T cells that become activated as part of an immune response, thereby confining the immune response. The non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse, a model for autoimmune diabetes, has an enlarged lymphoid mass because of resistance of their T cells to undergo apoptosis, as do CTLA-4 knockout mice, which readily develop lymphocytic organ infiltrates like NOD mice. These genes thus collectively affect the general ability to be tolerant to "self" antigens. Another susceptibility locus, (the
