Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


in insulin itself, CTLA4, PTPN22, AIRE, and IL2R remain most prominent ( 65 , 66 ). The HLA association, especially class II, remains the strongest predictor of T1DM risk. The heterozygous DR3/DR4 genotype carries the highest genetic risk for T1DM in non-Hispanic whites ( 45 - 70 ). In conclusion, insulin expressing islets from recent-onset T1D subjects show overexpression of interferon stimulated genes (ISGs), with an expression pattern similar to that seen in islets infected with virus or exposed to IFN-γ/interleukin-1β or IFN-α. Autoantigens and Autoantibodies in Type 1 Diabetes The Doniach group in London, first reported islet cell autoantibodies in patients with autoimmune polyglandular syndromes (APSs) ( 71 ), especially in those with APS type-1 (APS-1) ( 72 ), even though such patients did not often develop diabetes. Lendrum and colleagues, having failed to find serological evidence for an autoimmune basis for chronic pancreatitis, did succeed in finding Islet Cell Antibodies (ICA) detectable by indirect immunofluorescence in patients with T1DM. Islet cell surface reactive autoantibodies and autoreactive peripheral blood T cells were also reported ( 73 , 74 ). Over the years that followed, the presence of ICA in US patients was confirmed but with distinctly lower frequencies of ICA among African American diabetic patients ( 75 ). Insulin autoantibodies (IAA) were discovered in patients with T1DM before their first dose of insulin replacement had been received ( 76 ). The presence of IAA together with ICA identified a group of non-diabetic relatives of probands with T1DM, that were at high risk for T1DM themselves ( 77 ). Insulin itself is not an ICA antigen that can be detected by the indirect immunofluorescent technique. Subsequently, much of the antigenic nature of the ICA reactivity has become clearer. It was recognized that many patients with "stiff" man syndrome who were prone to develop diabetes, also had ICA and autoantibodies to glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD 65 ). These GAD autoantibodies penetrated the blood brain barrier. High concentrations of GAD in the cerebellum reduce brain levels of the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA), thereby causing the appearance of temporal lobe epilepsy, depressed cognition, muscle spasms, cerebellar incoordination and motor dysfunctions. That GAD 65 was the antigen that accounted for the 64 KDa islet cell protein previously discovered by Baekkeskov to react with autoantibodies in T1DM, was later confirmed by the same investigator ( 78 ). Antibodies to recombinant GAD 65 and
