Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


KDa islet cell protein previously discovered by Baekkeskov to react with autoantibodies in T1DM, was later confirmed by the same investigator ( 78 ). Antibodies to recombinant GAD 65 and GAD 67 in T1DM patients were soon reported ( 79 ). The autoantibodies reacted to the antigens by conformational rather than linear epitopes, and thus with native rather than denatured antigens. Therefore, they were best detected by liquid phase assays such as radioimmunoassay, rather than by an ELISA technique. In stiff-man syndrome, the predominant GAD autoantibodies reacted with linear epitopes. It became known that besides islet cell 64 KDa sized proteins, autoantibodies in the sera of T1DM patients also precipitated islet cell proteins of 50, 40 and 37 KDa as well ( 80 ). The next islet cell antigen discovered was one of the two-dozen tyrosine phosphatases expressed in islet cells, insulinoma antigen-2 (IA-2) ( 81 ). This antigen shared structural homologies with the ICA-512 antigen ( 82 ). A second tyrosine phosphatase named IA-2ß was discovered next ( 83 ). These additional tyrosine phosphatase antigens allowed for the matching of the islet cell proteins previously identifiable only by their molecular weights. Thus, GAD 65 and its tryptic fragment explained the 64 and 50 KDa proteins, while tryptic fragments of IA-2 and IA- 2ß were identical with the 40 KDa and the 37 KDa islet precipitable proteins respectively ( 84 ). The tyrosine phosphatases are a family of transmembrane enzymes of which only these two are expressed by the pancreatic islets and react with T1DM autoantibodies. The reactivity is almost exclusively with the internal domains of these molecules, suggesting that they arise as a consequence of islet cell damage from autoimmunity. Antibodies to IA-2 cross-react with those of IA-2ß in about 50% of the patient sera. Some unusual patient sera however react exclusively with IA-2ß. The question of why only these two members of the tyrosine phosphatase family are targets of islet cell autoimmunity has been answered by the finding that they are relatively resistant to proteolytic enzymatic digestion, and once released from islet cells after their lysis, are insoluble and thus become better antigens for auto-immunization, than those that remain soluble and are more rapidly digested ( 85 ). Recently, another antigen of 38KDa size (GLIMA) was added to the islet cell group, albeit only a minority of patient's sera react s to it ( 86 ). Still more
