Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


Recently, another antigen of 38KDa size (GLIMA) was added to the islet cell group, albeit only a minority of patient's sera react s to it ( 86 ). Still more islet cell autoantigens are likely to be discovered. The detection of islet cell autoantibodies is useful for differentiating T1DM from diabetes of other causes, and can be used to predict onset of diabetes months to years before onset of the clinical disease ( 20 , 21 , 87 , 88 ) in non-diabetic relatives of probands with T1DM. Importantly, the clinical onset of the disease is often long preceded by the appearance of autoantibodies reactive to islet cells (ICA) ( 88 ) and to insulin ( 77 ), as independent age-related variables in predicting a diabetic outcome ( 89 ). Islet cell autoantibodies (ICA) also show a strong tendency to disappear after diabetes onset when all ß cells are destroyed ( 90 , 91 ). Studies in mice demonstrated a critical role of autoantibodies to GAD 65 in the induction of autoimmune diabetes in NOD mice. In humans, the German BABY-DIAB study and the Finnish TRIGR study showed that islet autoantibodies which are mostly IgG class can be transferred through the placenta from islet antibody-positive mothers to their offspring ( 92 , 93 ). Most of the antibodies, however, disappeared from the circulation of the infant within the first year of life, indicating that they represent maternal antibodies and unlikely that they are markers of fetal induction of B-cell autoimmunity ( 93 ). In the German BABY-DIAB study, it was demonstrated that 729 offspring of mothers with T1DM had significantly lower risk of developing multiple islet autoantibodies (5 year risk 1.3%) and diabetes (8-year risk 1.1%) when they were GAD or IA-2 positive, than offspring who were islet autoantibody negative at birth ( 94 ). These findings suggest that fetal exposure to islet autoantibodies may protect from future diabetes. Furthermore, the German BABY-DIAB study finding is consistent with the overall decreased risk of development of diabetes in offspring of mother with T1DM compared with that of offspring of fathers with T1DM and nondiabetic mothers ( 95 ). The timing of the appearance of the autoantibodies seems to be important. It was found that progression to multiple islet autoantibodies was fastest in children who were antibody positive by age 2 years and that progression to diabetes was inversely related to the
