Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


was found that progression to multiple islet autoantibodies was fastest in children who were antibody positive by age 2 years and that progression to diabetes was inversely related to the age of first positivity for multiple autoantibodies ( 96 ). The presence of multiple autoantibodies strikingly increases the risk of diabetes, whereas one of the above autoantibodies in the absence of all of the others when tested for, denotes only a modestly increased risk ( 20 , 21 ). This suggests that antigenic epitope spreading is involved in a sustained or accelerated autoimmune attack ( 72 ) ( 97 ). Besides autoimmunity to islet cell autoantigens, patients with T1DM are subject to other autoimmunities. Thus T1DM is a component part of the autoimmune polyglandular syndromes, commonly in APS-2 (Diabetes Mellitus, Addison Disease, Hypothyroidism) and with less frequency in APS-1(AIRE gene mutations) ( 72 ). Accordingly, patients with T1DM have high rates of thyroid autoimmunity, especially if they are females ( 98 ) ( 99 ), and are at increased risk for Addison's disease ( 99 ), atrophic gastritis ( 100 ), pernicious anemia ( 98 ), celiac disease ( 101 ), and vitiligo ( 102 ). Table 5. Autoantibody Targets in Type 1 Diabetes View in own window glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 Islet cells Insulin Zinc Transporter 8 Antigen Specific Cellular Immunity in Type1 Diabetes Autoreactive T cells that develop in impending T1DM, localize to the pancreatic islets where they become a component part of the evolving insulitis lesions. Thus, circulating autoreactive T cells are relatively sparse in impending T1DM. Nevertheless, antigen specific T cells are identifiable through prolonged in-vitro cultures in the presence of purified or recombinant islet cell autoantigens such as GAD ( 103 ) ( 104 ) and IA-2 ( 105 ). In fact, autoreactivity to a large number of autoantigens have been reported in both human and murine diabetes ( 106 ). T cell proliferative responses to insulin and GAD 65 , and more generally to islet extracts, have been repeatedly reported in both patients with T1DM ( 107 , 108 ) and NOD mice. However, both in humans and NOD mice, reports of spontaneous proliferative responses have been difficult to reproduce and validate, probably because of the relative paucity of autoreactive T cells in peripheral blood samples, and the ready contamination of recombinant "test" antigens by lymphotoxin or lipopolysaccharide (LPS), that by itself, can produce
