Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


of the relative paucity of autoreactive T cells in peripheral blood samples, and the ready contamination of recombinant "test" antigens by lymphotoxin or lipopolysaccharide (LPS), that by itself, can produce proliferative responses even when present in trace amounts. Furthermore, significant T cell responses to insulin, proinsulin or GAD 65 antigen were reported, in some normal controls as well as in T1DM patients ( 109 - 111 ). Numerous laboratories have reported T cell reactivity in diabetic patients against GAD 65 and IA-2 and their peptides with variable results ( 105 , 107 , 112 - 117 ). However, in established diabetes, the loss of the majority of ß cell mass resulting in associated loss of GAD 65 and other ß cell antigens, in turn leads to the inactivation of T cells due to the loss of the peptide antigens that were driving the response. Thus, antigenic/epitopic spreading is an undesirable phenomenon associated with progression in autoimmune diseases like T1DM to a clinically significant outcome. Pathogenesis of Type 1 Diabetes The availability of Biobreeding (BB) rats and nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice, the rodent models of T1DM, has greatly enhanced our understanding of the possible pathogenic mechanisms involved ( Fig. 3 ). Recently, it has become possible to compare these findings with findings in human islets, obtained from post mortem specimens of the pancreas through the network of Pancreatic Organ Donors (nPOD) and from patients with recent onset DM via endoscopic pancreatic biopsy (DiViD study, Norway) ( 86 , 118 , 119 ). In addition, epidemiological studies aimed at the prediction and prevention of T1DM permit a picture of the natural history to emerge. The process of destruction of β-cells is chronic in nature, often beginning during infancy and continuing over the many months or years that follow. At the time of clinical diagnosis of T1DM, about +80% of the β- cells have been destroyed, the islets are infiltrated with chronic inflammatory mononuclear cells (insulitis), including CD8+ cytotoxic T cells. Once islet cell autoimmunity has begun, progression to islet cell destruction is quite variable, with some patients rapidly progressing to clinical diabetes, while others remain in a non-progressive state. Figure 3. The pathogenesis of islet cell destruction. Islet cell proteins are presented by antigen presenting cells (APCs) to naïve Th0 type CD4+ T cells in association with MHC class II molecules. Interleukin (IL)-12 is thus secreted by APCs that promotes the differentiation
