Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


by antigen presenting cells (APCs) to naïve Th0 type CD4+ T cells in association with MHC class II molecules. Interleukin (IL)-12 is thus secreted by APCs that promotes the differentiation of Th0 cells to Th1 type cells. Th1 cells secrete IL-2 and IFN-γ that further stimulate CD8+ cytotoxic T cells or macrophages to release free radicals (super-oxides) or perforin/granzymes, leading to ß cell apoptosis or death. CD8+ cytotoxic T cells further mediate ß cell death by Fas mediated mechanisms. Interleukin (IL)-4, on the other hand, secreted mainly by natural killer T (NKT) cells drives Th0 cell to Th2 pathway leading to benign insulitis. Diabetes risk and time to diabetes in relatives of patients directly correlates with the number of different autoantibodies present. The pathogenesis of T1DM has been extensively studied, but the exact mechanism involved in the initiation and progression of β-cell destruction is still unclear. The presentation of beta cell-specific autoantigens by antigen- presenting cells (APC) [macrophages or dendritic cells (DC)] to CD4+ helper T cells in association with MHC class II molecules is considered to be the first step in the initiation of the disease process. Macrophages secrete interleukin (IL)-12, stimulating CD4 + T cells to secrete interferon (IFN)-γ and IL-2. IFN-γ stimulates other resting macrophages to release other cytokines such as IL-1β, tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α) and free radicals, which are toxic to pancreatic β-cells. During this process, cytokines induce the migration of β-cell autoantigen specific CD8+ cytotoxic T cells. On recognizing specific autoantigen on ß cells in association with class I molecules, these CD8+ cytotoxic T cells cause ß cell damage by releasing perforin and granzyme and by Fas-mediated apoptosis of the beta cells. Continued destruction of beta cells eventually results in the clinical onset of diabetes. Recently, these concepts derived from studies in the rodent models have been challenged as having the same pathologic process that occur in humans. Analysis of variations in histopathology observed from these organ donors provide mechanistic differences related to etiological agents and serve an important function in terms of identifying the heterogeneity of T1D ( 120 ). The findings are not always consistent with those of the rodent models. For example, the dense infiltration of islets by T-cells is evident in the pancreas of those who succumb to DKA at onset, but more chronic cases show a patchy distribution of destroyed and functioning islets containing beta cells with insulin suggesting
