Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


in the pancreas of those who succumb to DKA at onset, but more chronic cases show a patchy distribution of destroyed and functioning islets containing beta cells with insulin suggesting a defect in secretion rather than synthesis. In the DiViD (Diabetes Virus Detection) study, expression of inflammatory markers, predominance of Class I antigens (rather than expression of Class 2 antigens) in islets, and actual viral isolations suggest a more acute process. Taken together, the studies suggest that T1DM may be a heterogeneous group of conditions in which auto-immunity may be a consequence or companion rather than the initiating mechanism. These findings begin to explain why prediction of developing T1DM in those from affected families considered at risk has become quite accurate, whereas prevention or reversal of DM by immune intervention or modulation has failed repeatedly ( 3 , 4 , 121 ). The Inductive Event in Type 1 Diabetes Various mechanisms have been proposed: MOLECULAR MIMCRY In antigenic molecular mimicry, cross-reactive immune responses occur due to significant structural homologies shared by molecules encoded by dissimilar genes. The incidence of T1DM has increased over the last three to four decades in Europe, and the clinical disease exhibits preferential seasonal onset ( 122 ). These observations emphasize the role of environmental factors in the disease process. It has long been suggested that T1DM in humans is caused by viral infections ( 123 - 125 ). However, despite a vast increase in the information regarding the various genetic factors controlling the disease, little is known about the role of the putative environmental factors that might provide a more direct approach to therapy ( 8 ). Specifically, allegations that childhood vaccines could be causal have not been upheld by more extensive controlled studies. The disease pathogenesis may involve multiple factors including the genetics of the host, strain of the virus, activation status of the autoreactive T cells, upregulation of pancreatic MHC class I antigens, molecular mimicry between viral and ß cell epitopes and direct islet cell destruction by viral cytolysis. Viruses, as one of the environmental factors affecting the induction of T1DM, may act as triggering agents of autoimmunity or as primary injurious agents, which directly damage pancreatic ß cells. Immune responses against a determinant shared by host cells and a virus could cause a tissue-specific immune response by generation of cytotoxic cross-reactive effector lymphocytes or antibodies that recognize self-proteins located on the target
