Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


determinant shared by host cells and a virus could cause a tissue-specific immune response by generation of cytotoxic cross-reactive effector lymphocytes or antibodies that recognize self-proteins located on the target cells. Monoclonal antibodies against viruses have been observed to be capable of cross-reacting with host determinants ( 126 ). Several studies in humans also point to viruses as triggers of the disease ( 127 ). Coxsackie B4 virus and rubella virus have been linked with T1DM. In a few instances, Coxsackie B4 virus has even been directly isolated from pancreatic tissues of individuals with acute T1DM. Inoculation of this virus into mice, in one report, produced diabetes ( 128 ). The possibility that viruses might cause some cases of T1DM by infecting and destroying pancreatic ß-cells has received considerable attention. However, it is difficult to demonstrate in-vivo that viruses replicate in human ß-cells and/or produce diabetes in man. An in-vitro system was therefore developed to determine whether viruses are capable of destroying human β-cells in culture ( 129 , 130 ). By this method, it was clearly shown that several common human viruses, including mumps virus ( 131 ), Coxsackie B3 virus( 132 ), Coxsackie B4 virus ( 128 ), reovirus type 3 ( 133 ), could infect human ß-cells. In addition, by radioimmunoassay, it was shown that the infection markedly decreased the insulin content of the ß-cells. A strong correlation was found between the CMV genome in the immunocytes and the islet cell autoantibodies in the sera from diabetic patients ( 134 ). About 15% of newly diagnosed autoimmune T1DM patients have been reported to have persistent CMV infections. Furthermore, it has been proposed that a molecular mimicry between protein 2C (p2C) of Coxsackie virus B4 and the autoantigen GAD 65 may play a role in pathogenesis of T1DM. Kaufman et al ( 135 ) and Vreugdenhil et al ( 125 ), showed that the amino acid sequence of p2C shares a striking homology with a sequence in GAD 65 (PEVKEK) and is highly conserved in Coxsackie virus B4 isolates as well as in different viruses of the subgroup of Coxsackie B-like viruses. These are the most prevalent enteroviruses and therefore the exposure to the mimicry motif should be a frequent event throughout the life. Furthermore, they suggested that molecular mimicry might be limited to the HLA-DR3 subpopulation of the T1D patients. Although numerous sequence similarities between viral proteins
