Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


a frequent event throughout the life. Furthermore, they suggested that molecular mimicry might be limited to the HLA-DR3 subpopulation of the T1D patients. Although numerous sequence similarities between viral proteins and ß-cell autoantigens are plausible, the relationship between Coxsackie virus infection and GAD 65 autoimmunity has received the most attention. Glutamate Decarboxylase (GAD) The finding by Kauffman et al ( 135 ), of a striking sequence homology of 18 amino acid peptide between human GAD 65 and the Coxsackie virus p2-C protein, enhanced the evidence of a specific molecular mimicry model involving GAD. In addition, this specific region of GAD 65 contains a T cell epitope involved in the GAD cellular autoimmunity in humans with immune mediated diseases ( 103 ) and this region is an early target of the cellular immunity in NOD mice ( 136 , 137 ). GAD catalyzes the formation of the inhibitory neurotransmitter γ-amino butyric acid (GABA) from glutamine ( 104 ). Two forms of GAD exist (GAD 65 and GAD 67 ). GAD 65 is the predominant form within the human pancreatic islet cells, while GAD 67 predominates in mouse islets. Within the islets, GAD is predominantly observed within the ß-cells, while its roles in the inhibition of somatostatin and glucagon secretion and in the regulation of proinsulin synthesis and insulin secretion, have also been suggested ( 138 ). Another study further supports a link between Coxsackie virus and T1DM, associating IgM antibodies to Coxsackie B virus as a marker of recent exposure to the virus in newly diagnosed IMD patients and age/sex-matched controls ( 139 ). In that report, humoral immunity to Coxsackie virus and GAD appeared to cluster, even in people without diabetes. A series of overlapping synthetic GAD 65 peptides were used to study the most reactive T cell determinants in individuals at increased risk for T1DM, i.e., autoantibody positive, first degree relatives of T1DM patients. Elevated in vitro T cell responses were observed to GAD 65 peptides (amino acids 247-266 and 260-279) in newly diagnosed T1DM patients and autoantibody positive at- risk individuals ( 140 ). The sequence of this region of GAD 65 (amino acids 250-273) is significantly similar to the p2-C protein of Coxsackie B virus ( 123 ). However, not all published reports have demonstrated a linkage between immunity to GAD and Coxsackie virus. For example, one study identified a non-Coxsackie-homologous region of GAD 65 as a
