Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


). However, not all published reports have demonstrated a linkage between immunity to GAD and Coxsackie virus. For example, one study identified a non-Coxsackie-homologous region of GAD 65 as a predominant cellular immune epitope while studying the polyclonal human T cell responses ( 115 ). Insulinoma Antigen Two (IA-2) Tyrosine phosphatase IA-2 is another molecular target of pancreatic islet autoimmunity in T1DM. In one recent study, the epitope spanning 805-820 amino acid elicited maximum T-cell responses in all at-risk relatives, out of a total of 68 overlapping, synthetic peptides encompassing the intracytoplasmic domain of IA-2 ( 141 ). This epitope was found to have 56% identity and 100% similarity over 9 amino acids with a sequence in VP7, a major immunogenic protein of human rotavirus. This dominant epitope also has 75-45% identity and 88-64% similarity over 8-14 amino acids to sequences in Dengue, cytomegalovirus, measles, hepatitis C and canine distemper viruses and the bacterium Haemophilus influenzae. Furthermore, three other IA-2 epitope peptides have 71-100% similarity over 7-12 amino acid stretch to herpes, rhino-, hanta- and flavi-viruses. Two others have 80-82% similarity with dietary proteins of milk, wheat and bean proteins. These molecular mimicries could lead to triggering or exacerbation of ß-cell autoimmunity. SUPERANTIGENS Besides molecular mimicry, retroviral expression of superantigens (Sags) may be able to activate clonal expansion of autoreactive T cell clones. Superantigens have been implicated in the pathogenesis of the various autoimmune diseases ( 142 , 143 ). Originally described as minor-lymphocyte stimulating antigens, retroviral Sags expressed by B cells interact with the development of T helper cells of both Th1 and Th2 subtypes in mice. A study in patients with T1DM demonstrated that two thirds of IAA positive sera also reacted with p73 ( 144 ). Conrad et al ( 145 ) isolated a novel mouse mammary tumor virus-related human endogenous retrovirus (HERV), in patients suffering from acute onset T1DM. He termed them the HERV IDDMK1,2 22 subtype. They further showed that the N-terminal moiety of the envelope (env) gene encoded an MHC class II-dependent superantigen. He proposed that expression of this Sag, induced extra-pancreatically and by professional antigen-presenting cells, could lead to ß-cell destruction via the systemic activation of autoreactive T cells. He further reported the selective expansion of Vß7+ T cells in the islet cell infiltrates from two patients with recent onset IMD was associated with extensive junctional diversity of Vß7+ T cell clones. These
