Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


selective expansion of Vß7+ T cells in the islet cell infiltrates from two patients with recent onset IMD was associated with extensive junctional diversity of Vß7+ T cell clones. These investigators demonstrated that islet cell membrane preparations preferentially expanded Vß7+ T cells from non-diabetic peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( 146 ). However, other investigators were unable to confirm T1DM specificity of the IDDMK1,2 22, since it was equally recoverable as viremia from controls as well as patients ( 147 ). Furthermore, both patients and controls made antibodies to env proteins. In order to establish molecular mimicry as a mechanism responsible for the autoimmune diseases it is important to identify the precise epitope that initiates the putative cross-reactive immune response. Additional complexity that has come to various animal studies is that of epitope spreading ( 148 ). An increasing array of autoantigens or autoantigenic peptides reactive with autoantibodies develop over time. Both intramolecular and intermolecular epitope spreading has been described in NOD mice ( 136 , 149 ). These studies demonstrated that T- cell responses in NOD mice expand in vivo against a defined group of islet cell antigens in an orderly sequential manner. These responses in the young NOD mice first show a strong reactivity to GAD enzyme and not to other islet cell antigens. Furthermore, the initial response to GAD is first limited to one region of the protein only. Gradually, this response spreads intramolecularly to involve other regions of the protein. Eventually, after the destructive islet cell inflammation (insulitis) as a result of autoimmunity to ß-cells, the T-cell responses spread intermolecularly to involve other islet cell proteins (e.g., heat shock protein 60, carboxypeptidase H and insulin) as well ( 150 ). This epitope spreading makes it difficult to predict which putative cross-reactions, if any, are important in terms of disease induction, and which do not give rise to autoimmune pathology, particularly in humans who are exposed to many infections. Deficiencies in immunoregulation in Type 1 Diabetes There is both evidence for and speculation about defective central and peripheral mechanisms of immunoregulation in the autoimmune form of T1DM. Deletion of autoreactive T cells in the thymus, is one mechanism for the induction of tolerance to self-antigens (central deletion). This may involve diminished expression of insulin in the thymus of susceptible individuals due to the presence of class I VNTR alleles 5' to the insulin gene as already discussed. Others
