Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


may involve diminished expression of insulin in the thymus of susceptible individuals due to the presence of class I VNTR alleles 5' to the insulin gene as already discussed. Others have suggested that it is the ineffective antigenic binding of the T1DM-prone HLA-DQ or -DR that promotes islet cell autoimmunity, since this permits autoreactive T cells to escape thymic ablation and pass into circulation. In addition to clonal T cell deletion and anergy in thymus, peripheral regulatory T (Treg) cells are essential for the down regulation of T cell responses to both foreign and self-antigens, and for the prevention of autoimmunity. Various studies have identified defects in the peripheral Treg cells in T1DM patients ( 151 , 152 ) as well as in NOD mice affecting both NKT cells ( 153 , 154 ) as well as CD4+CD25+ suppressor T cells ( 155 ). Since these Treg cells are not absent in either species, ways to stimulate them should be actively sought to provide novel therapies for the future. The possibility of future therapeutic use of Treg cells in human autoimmune diseases lies heavily on basic studies that are designed to elucidate the mechanisms of induction and function of these cells. Therapy with immunomodulatory compounds that specifically target endogenous pools of Treg cells can be envisioned ( 156 ). This approach requires a more detailed investigation into the intracellular and extracellular events that regulate the differentiation and expansion of these cells in-vivo. Of great interest has been the emergence of immune mediated T1DM in patients treated with checkpoint inhibitors for various cancers ( 157 ). Unlocking the immune response via drugs that block the molecules programmed death (PD1) or its ligand, PDL1, as well as CTL4, may result in immunotoxicity with emergence of autoimmunity affecting various organs, including endocrine tissues such as the thyroid, adrenal and pancreas causing a form of T1DM ( 158 ). Indeed, autoimmunity has been called the “Achilles’ Heel” of immunotherapy, with increasing reports of its association with T1DM ( 159 ). Environmental Factors in Type 1 Diabetes Besides the familial predispositions, much evidence points to a major role of environmental factors in the disease pathogenesis. More than 60% of identical twins affected by T1DM are discordant for the disease and most of the non-diabetic twins lack islet cell autoantibodies. Over the past 3 decades, the disease frequency is on a steep rise in Western countries
