Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


discordant for the disease and most of the non-diabetic twins lack islet cell autoantibodies. Over the past 3 decades, the disease frequency is on a steep rise in Western countries that cannot be explained by the accumulation of the susceptible genes. Africans, who dominate the tropics, and Chinese, both have low frequencies of the susceptible genes and low incidence rates of T1DM ( 75 ), except where there has been a high rate of Caucasian genetic admixture. More persuasively, migrants from countries with low hygiene and low incidence rates of T1DM to countries with high hygiene and high incidence become as susceptible as the natives within a generation ( 160 ). Animals reared in sterile environments have early onsets and increased frequencies of diabetes while those infected with a variety of micro-organisms and parasites become protected ( 161 - 165 ). The hygiene hypothesis was proposed. A strong causal relationship between prevailing level of community hygiene, especially with respect to drinking water and the dramatic increase in the incidence of autoimmune diseases such as T1DM in the modern world, has been referred to as the hygiene hypothesis. ROLE OF DIET Despite persuasive epidemiological evidence for environmental factors that precipitate T1DM in genetically susceptible individuals, their identity remains elusive. This may be due to long period between exposure and the onset of hyperglycemia, the complex genetics of the disease, and the likely multiple insults of perhaps different derivation involved in the initiation of the insulitis and subsequent ß cell destruction. Dietary habits such as consumption of dairy products and early weaning of infants, and dietary toxins such as nitrates and nitrites have been associated with this autoimmune disease ( 166 , 167 ). Close correlations between per capita consumption of unfermented milk proteins and the incidence of diabetes between countries( 168 - 170 ) and within a country have been reported ( 171 ). The claimed negative association between diabetes incidence and a high frequency and long duration of breast-feeding is more controversial ( 166 ) and has not been confirmed by reports from Germany ( 172 ) and the United States. Several studies have found associations between the consumption of foods rich in nitrate s (or nitrite s ), which is reduced to nitrite in the gut, and the occurrence of T1DM ( 173 , 174 ). The active species is believed to be N-Nitroso compounds that can be formed
