Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


is reduced to nitrite in the gut, and the occurrence of T1DM ( 173 , 174 ). The active species is believed to be N-Nitroso compounds that can be formed from the reaction of nitrite with amines ( 175 ). Most recently, the gut microbiome and its modulation by dietary factors, has been implicated in the causality of T1DM ( 176 ). The incidence of T1DM varies worldwide according to dietary patterns. In-depth exploration of dietary risk factors during pregnancy and early neonatal life is warranted to confirm whether and to what extent diet cooperates with genetic susceptibility in the early onset of T1DM. Screening Methods for Type 1 Diabetes T1DM is by far the most common chronic metabolic disease of childhood and adolescence and its prevalence and incidence has been increasing worldwide ( 96 ). This increase of incidence is the highest among the children under 5 years of age ( 177 ). Prevention of T1DM would constitute a major advance in the lives of pre-diabetic individuals and significantly relieve a major current and predicted burden on both the individual and the health care system. Identifying individuals at risk developing the disease and the prevention of the disease progression are two important steps before the onset of disease. The presence of islet autoantibodies, as well as the genetic predisposition with specific HLA haplotypes are known risk factors associated with the development of diabetes. Most studies have been carried out on first-degree relatives of T1DM patients who have 15-fold increased risk of the developing diabetes in comparison to the general population. However, more than 90% of all patients developing T1DM do not have an affected family member. Therefore, it is crucial to establish a standardized screening method which will efficiently identify individuals at high risk in a general population. School children between 5-18 years of age were screened to evaluate the predictive value of autoantibodies over a period of 6-12 years ( 178 ). This study indicated that the risk of developing T1DM when ICA is detected in the absence of other autoantibodies is low, whereas with more than one autoantibody (either GAD65A, IAA, IA-2A or IA-2ßA) the risk of developing T1DM in a general population is high. Similar findings were also reported in other studies ( 179 - 181 ). These results support the value of multiple autoantibodies as good predictive markers for T1DM not only in first degree
