Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


were also reported in other studies ( 179 - 181 ). These results support the value of multiple autoantibodies as good predictive markers for T1DM not only in first degree relatives but also in the general population. Consequently, the American Diabetes Association now considers the presence of 2 or more autoantibodies as form of early presymptomatic diabetes ( 182 ). Prevention Trials in Type 1 Diabetes The elucidation of the natural history of pre-diabetes has allowed for the characterization of those individuals at greatest risk for developing autoimmune T1DM, through the use of genetic, immunologic and metabolic markers. This predictive ability has become possible in both high- risk relatives and the general population as mentioned above. The subclinical autoimmune destruction of ß-cells in the pancreas may last from a few months to several years. This pre- diabetic period has allowed investigators to test prevention strategies, which mainly have focused in modulation of autoimmune process ( 183 ). A number of studies initiated with general immunosuppressive agents, such as cyclosporin-A, azathioprine and prednisone in patients with new clinical onset T1DM, positive results in that insulin free remission rates were increased and endogenous insulin (C-peptide) reserves were improved ( 121 ). However, despite continued immunotherapy with the attendant risks of renal damage and lymphomas at higher doses, relapses proved to be the rule and such treatments were abandoned. Cyclosporin given at a prediabetic phase of the disease delayed but did not prevent diabetes ( 184 , 185 ). With the observation that nicotinamide prevents pancreatic ß cell destruction from streptozotocin by raising otherwise depleted levels of islet cell NAD as a result of superoxide induced DNA breaks and repair, the vitamin was subjected to a large European and Canadian trial called The European Nicotinamide Diabetes Intervention Trial (ENDIT). However, nicotinamide failed to prevent progression to diabetes ( 186 ). In addition, a study in Germany (DENIS) was completed without any effect of nicotinamide on prevention of T1DM.( 187 ).More recent studies have used Anti CD21(Rituximab), Anti CD3, Anti CTLA-4, oral insulin,GAD65 peptides, and infusions of Treg cells with early encouraging results in preserving insulin secretion, but without durable effects ( 188 ). These results in humans were often based on animal studies in NOD mice ( 189 - 191 ). In stark contrast to these encouraging studies in NOD mice, where a variety of interventions induce long lasting remissions, none of the
