Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


of ethnic groups prone to IRS and T2DM (Hispanics, American Indians, Asian Indians, African Americans), the number of children with T2DM is beginning to rival if not surpass the number with T1DM. It is estimated that 1 in 3 people born in the US in the year of 2000 will develop T2DM sometime in their lifetime ( 205 ). The increased incidence of T2DM is attributed to the increase in obesity worldwide. Approximately 3700 youths are diagnosed with T2DM every year in the US ( 206 ) and it is estimated that the number of youth with T2DM will almost quadruple from 22,820 in 2010 to approximately 85,000 adolescents with T2DM by 2050 ( 10 ). Similar rates of increased in youths with T2DM are reported from the UK, India, China and Japan ( 10 ). Pathophysiology of Type 2 Diabetes T2DM is characterized by insulin resistance in peripheral tissues (muscle, fat, and liver) with progressive β cell failure, ,especially manifest with defective insulin secretion in response to a glucose stimulus, increased glucose production by the liver, and no markers of pancreatic autoimmunity ( 207 ). The progressive decline in β cell function is more rapid in youths at 20-30% decline per year versus 7-11% decline per year in adults, even with aggressive medical therapy. Table 7. Pathophysiologic Factors View in own window Obesity/Insulin resistance (IR) See IRS Intrauterine environment Epidemiological studies have shown a strong association between poor intrauterine growth and the subsequent development of the Metabolic Syndrome. It was suggested that the effects of poor nutrition in early life impair the development of pancreas and resulting permanent changes in glucose- insulin metabolism ( 208 ). Gestational diabetes Studies in Pima Indian women showed significant increased risk of developing T2DM in offspring of women with diabetes during pregnancy compared to non-diabetic mothers ( 209 ). Ethnicity There is a significant increase risk in certain ethnic/race groups ( 205 ). Gender and puberty Puberty is a state of IR brought about by the increased secretion of GH during this process. There is a 30%-50% decrease in insulin sensitivity and compensatory increase in insulin secretion. Those that have an inherent defect in insulin secretion and inadequate response to the resistance develop DM. The mean age at diagnosis of T2DM in children is 13.5 years, corresponding to the time of peak adolescent growth and development. Girls are 1.5-3 times more likely than
