Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


DM. The mean age at diagnosis of T2DM in children is 13.5 years, corresponding to the time of peak adolescent growth and development. Girls are 1.5-3 times more likely than boys to develop T2D as children or adolescents ( 270 ). Family History Between 74-100% of children with T2DM have a first or second-degree relative with T2DM. The lifetime risk is 40% if one parent is affected and 70% if both parents are affected ( 210 ). Genetics Genome-wide studies led the discovery of single- nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at several loci regulating insulin secretion. To date, more than 30 diabetes-related SNPS (diabetoSNPs) have been identified ( 211 ). Several genes have been found to be associated with T2D; 1. Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor-γ2 ( PPAR- γ2) Gene: An important regulator of lipid and glucose homeostasis. Missense mutation Pro12Ala in PPAR- γ2 is associated with decreased risk for T2DM. 2. Kir6.2 Gene (KCNJ11): The missense mutationGlu23Lys in the Kir6.2 gene has been associated with increased risk of T2DM . 3. MODY genes ( HNF4α and HNF1β ) 4. Transcription Factor 7-like (TCF7L2) Gene: A product of HMG box containing transcription factors that play role in the glucose homeostasis. Specific polymorphisms in the TCF7L2 gene increase the risk of progression from IGT to T2DM. 5. Calpain-10 Gene: Calpains are Ca+2 dependent cysteine proteases and play a role in regulating insulin secretion and action. The natural history of progression to T2DM is that a person with IRS begins to decompensate, with a fall in the disposition index (the amount of insulin produced for the degree of insulin resistance). Subsequently levels of blood glucose rise after feeding; elevations in fasting blood glucose levels occur later. At this early stage, diet, exercise and insulin sensitizers are indicated. INSULIN RESISTANCE SYNDROME (IRS) This syndrome complex is centered upon genetic predispositions to insulin resistance and the hyperinsulinemia that results from it. This medical state is also named syndrome X and the metabolic syndrome, however the descriptive term insulin resistance syndrome (IRS) is the one increasingly used in the literature ( 207 , 212 ). In IRS, there are poorly understood genetic lesions that lead to insulin resistance from early life if not during embryogenesis. In many affected families, the disease occurrences suggest a dominant mode of transmission. In rare families, mutations affecting insulin receptors, or peroxisome proliferators-gamma (PPAR- gamma) expression may be the cause of it ( 213
