Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


the disease occurrences suggest a dominant mode of transmission. In rare families, mutations affecting insulin receptors, or peroxisome proliferators-gamma (PPAR- gamma) expression may be the cause of it ( 213 ). IRS is the association of insulin and leptin resistance with obesity (typically with increased visceral fat), functional adrenal hyper-androgenism, functional ovarian hyperandrogenism, hypersecretion of pituitary LH, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and features of hyperinsulinemia such as late reactive hypoglycemia and acanthosis nigricans. When the compensation by increased insulin secretion fails, glucose intolerance and T2DM result. Natural History of Insulin Resistance Syndrome Several studies indicate that many children and adults with T2DM were born small for gestational age. This suggests that the insulin resistant state existed in-utero since it is insulin rather than pituitary growth hormone that is the principal growth-promoting hormone of the unborn child, and decreased insulin action might be anticipated to impair embryonic growth. After birth, premature pubarche resulting from excessive adrenal androgens such as dihydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) may occur, even before obesity has appeared. Thus, it has been proposed by some that obesity may be the result of insulin resistance, and not its cause. Excessive DHEA may be seen best after ACTH injection leading to a clinical suspicion that the 3ß hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase enzyme is underactive. Obesity can begin from infancy but often dates from about 8 years of age when physiological pubarche occurs. Early onset obesity raises the possibility of a genetic satiety causation such as the Prader-Willi Syndrome or deficiency of MC4R. Acanthosis nigricans resulting from increased keratinocytes in certain areas of skin is thought to result from insulin stimulation of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) receptors and often manifests during puberty Menarche may be delayed in age at onset or menses may be missed after menarche, or else there can be dysfunctional bleeding resulting from anovulatory cycles. Hirsutism often becomes bothersome during adolescence, as may male pattern hair thinning, persistent acne and development of polycystic ovaries. An increase in very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) secretion by the liver is observed with increasing age, associated with diminished, atherogenesis protective, high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), a dyslipidemic profile that promotes early and progressive onset of atherosclerosis, predisposing to coronary heart disease (CHD), stroke, and peripheral vascular diseases in later life. The latter problems are compounded by the appearance of hypertension and type-2 diabetes. The glucose intolerance that precedes type-2 diabetes often first involves post-prandial glucose levels or the two-hour
