Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


life. The latter problems are compounded by the appearance of hypertension and type-2 diabetes. The glucose intolerance that precedes type-2 diabetes often first involves post-prandial glucose levels or the two-hour time point of the OGTT as discussed above, but later induces a rise in fasting glucose (impaired fasting glucose) levels as well. The mechanism is thought to be ß cell exhaustion or more likely a glucosamine and lipid mediated islet cell toxicity. Once this stage is reached, damage to the islets can become irreversible, resulting in the dual problems of insulin resistance and insulinopenia, both of which need to be addressed in therapeutic strategies. In children and adolescents, the progression of impaired insulin secretion and its complications including the appearance of albuminuria, exhibits a faster tempo than that of adults presenting later in life. Hence, these adolescents may more rapidly progress to requiring insulin therapy. Table 8. Clinical features of IRS. Adapted from refs ( 210 , 213 , 214 ). View in own window Clinical Features Infancy Family history of obesity and T2DM, SGA, LGA Gestational Diabetes Childhood/Adolescence Acanthosis nigricans Premature adrenarche, Obesity, Pseudoacromegaly, Striae, Skin tags, Amenorrhea Adulthood Tall Stature, Pseudoacromegaly Fatty liver, Focal glomerulosclerosis Hirsutism, Ovarian hyperandrogenism, PCOS Endothelial dysfunction, Atherosclerosis, Increased carotid wall thickness, Stroke CHD Glucose intolerance, T2DM Table 9. Laboratory Features of IRS View in own window ↓IGFBP-1, ↓SHBG, ↑free testosterone ↓CBG, ↑free cortisol ↑VLDL, ↑TG, ↓HDL, ↑ small dense LDL Increased PAI-1, CRP, fibrinogen Adhesion molecules and uric acid Decrease first phase insulin response Increased decompensated insulin resistance Postprandial hyperglycemia Fasting hyperglycemia Diabetes Underlying Mechanisms of Insulin Resistance OBESITY Affected patients commonly show polyphagia, and may have voracious appetites that are characteristically resistant to dietary advice. When leptin deficiency was discovered in Ob/Ob mice and leptin receptor deficiency discovered in Db/Db mice, the adipocyte became to be appreciated as an endocrine cell rather than one that was an inert repository of triglycerides. However, the promise of a breakthrough in the understanding of human obesity was quickly dissipated when such lesions proved to be rare in humans. Obese patients with their greater degrees of adiposity also have the highest levels of leptin as expected, however these high levels do not reduce the appetites of IRS patients ( 215 ). Thus, such patients are also leptin resistant. Early trials of leptin therapy have not affected weight loss. However, patients with lipodystrophy who have leptin deficiency
