Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


IRS patients ( 215 ). Thus, such patients are also leptin resistant. Early trials of leptin therapy have not affected weight loss. However, patients with lipodystrophy who have leptin deficiency develop insulin resistance, hyper-insulinemia, dyslipidemia and T2DM, all of which respond dramatically to leptin given as therapy ( 216 , 217 ). Deficiencies in other appetite suppressing hormones such as resistin have more recently been implicated but not yet shown to have therapeutic relevance. Hyperinsulinemia itself is a compounding variable, in that excessive carbohydrate containing diets stimulate the highest levels of insulin and the greatest degrees of adiposity. Therapies such as metformin that improve insulin sensitivity when combined with a diet restricted in low amounts of simple carbohydrates and exercise, can dramatically lower weight in children with IRS when they adhere to therapeutic guidelines. However, failure to adhere to instructions is a common problem in adolescents ( 218 , 219 ). HYPERANDROGENISM It is uncertain as to the degree to which the pituitary abnormality of increased LH secretion leads to the androgenic excess or vice versa. Probably, both are responses to the insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia of IRS by mechanisms that have yet to be clearly understood. Androgens of ovarian origins usually predominate over those of the adrenal gland, albeit both are often found to be elevated. Sex hormone binding globulins in the circulation are often low, resulting in increased free androgens with their increased bio-availability ( 220 ). This is often seen with testosterone, which can be raised or normal in hirsute girls whereas increased free testosterone levels are common. Interestingly, we hold that there is a clinical overlap between Cushing's syndrome and IRS ( 221 ). Both tend to have visceral (central) obesity and striae suggestive of glucocorticoid excess. However, whereas the patient with Cushing's syndrome has high levels of serum cortisol, the patient with IRS has low normal levels, albeit both have increased levels of urinary free cortisol. Again, the explanation may lie in the low levels of corticosteroid binding globulins found in IRS where circulating cortisol is disproportionately free. Some investigators have suggested that there is an impaired conversion of cortisol to the metabolically inactive cortisone in IRS. Further, the child with Cushing's syndrome is invariably growth retarded in contrast to the child with IRS whose linear growth tends to be excessive. In IRS and obesity, the GH levels during stimulation tests are suppressed implying a
