Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


growth retarded in contrast to the child with IRS whose linear growth tends to be excessive. In IRS and obesity, the GH levels during stimulation tests are suppressed implying a diagnosis of GH deficiency which likely is not the case as these children tend to be tall. IGFBP levels in serum are depressed, resulting in an excessive free IGF-1 level, albeit the total IGF-1 concentration is usually normal. The pseudo-acromegaly observed in severely affected children with IRS may be occurring via this mechanism. In addition, high concentrations of insulin interact with the IGF-I receptor, thereby promoting growth ( 222 ). ACANTHOSIS NIGRICANS Stimulation of the IGF-1 receptors of skin keratinocytes by high levels of circulating insulin is thought to explain their hyperplasia and excessive laying down of keratin in the skin of the neck, axillae, elbows and knees, skin creases and indeed most areas of skin ( 223 ). In addition, excessive free IGF-1 may have the same effect, albeit the greater the degree of insulin resistance, the higher the insulin levels, the more striking the acanthosis nigricans. Increased bioavailability of IGF-1 (high IGF-1 and low IGFBP-1) are directly correlated with the severity of acanthosis nigricans GLUCOSE INTOLERANCE AND T2DM Children and young adults affected by IRS are often hyperinsulinemic. In such persons, stimulation of insulin secretion by carbohydrates alone or with protein can induce an excessive but delayed rise in insulin secretion, reflected in an early excessive rise in glucose, followed by an excessive fall in glucose levels 3-5 hours afterwards, of sufficient severity to provoke symptoms of hypoglycemia. As the ability to secrete insulin declines, impaired glucose intolerance appears first. Later in the evolution of T2DM, the 2-hour criteria for diabetes during OGTT become apparent, followed later by impaired fasting hyperglycemia and finally by fasting hyperglycemia that meets the criteria for the diagnosis of diabetes. An HbA1c level can be used to screen diabetes as recommended by the American Diabetes Association. Table 10. Criteria for Increased Risk of Diabetes ( 1 ) View in own window Fasting plasma glucose 100 – 125 mg/dl 2-hour plasma glucose after OGTT 140 – 199 mg/dl HbA1C 5.7 – 6.4% NON-ALCOHOLIC STEATOHEPATITIS (NASH) It is also known as fatty liver or hepatic steatosis. The incidence of fatty liver among obese children was 2.6% in one study ( 224 ), and hyperinsulinemia was found to be the major contributor for its’ development (
