Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


steatosis. The incidence of fatty liver among obese children was 2.6% in one study ( 224 ), and hyperinsulinemia was found to be the major contributor for its’ development ( 225 ). A number of factors may play a role in the development of fatty liver including, induction of cytochrome P4502E1 during obesity, which is capable of generating free radicals, while the high level of dietary intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids or low intake of nutritional antioxidants contribute s to the oxidative stress. Fatty liver alone appears to be a relatively benign disease, and can be reversible. However, it may progress over years to hepatic cirrhosis, liver failure, or hepatocellular carcinoma. The onset of disease is usually insidious. Laboratory evaluation indicates mild to moderate elevation of serum aminotransferases in most children and serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels had been shown a useful screening for fatty liver in obese children ( 226 ). The ratio of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) to ALT is usually less than 1, but this ratio increases as fibrosis advances. Serum aminotransferases, alkaline phosphatase and gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT) levels are proposed surrogate markers of fatty liver ( 227 , 228 ). RENAL INVOLVEMENT A form of focal glomerulosclerosis (often with IgA deposition) appears to be associated with IRS, leading to microalbuminuria. Hypertension becomes increasingly common through adolescence and beyond. The mechanisms responsible have not been elucidated. INFLAMMATION IRS and T2DM have increased markers of inflammation. This takes the form of increased levels of C-reactive protein, raised erythrocyte sedimentation rates (ESR) and increased cytokine (TNF-α) levels. Obese patients also have abnormalities of thyroid function suggestive of primary thyroid deficiency with modestly elevated TSH but normal or slightly elevated fT4 and fT3.These abnormalities resolve with weight loss and have therefore been interpreted as representing an adaptive response to obesity i.e., by raising TSH and free T3, caloric expenditure would increase ( 229 - 231 ). Obese patients are thus often unnecessarily treated for hypothyroidism they do not have. They may however develop true hypothyroidism on the basis of associated Hashimoto's disease. ATYPICAL DIABETES Genetic Defects of ß-cell Function (Monogenic Diabetes) Monogenic forms of diabetes are characterized by impaired secretion of insulin from pancreatic β cells caused by a single gene mutation. These forms comprise a genetically heterogenous group of diabetes including, maturity onset diabetes of the young (MODY), permanent or transient neonatal diabetes (NDM), and mitochondrial diabetes. MODY is
