Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


gene mutation. These forms comprise a genetically heterogenous group of diabetes including, maturity onset diabetes of the young (MODY), permanent or transient neonatal diabetes (NDM), and mitochondrial diabetes. MODY is the most common form of monogenic diabetes, with autosomal dominant transmission of a gene encoding a primary defect in insulin secretion ( 232 - 235 ). Approximately 1 to 2% of diabetes in Europe is MODY ( 236 ). The clinical characteristics of these patients are heterogeneous, and not reliable in predicting the underlying pathogenesis ( 237 , 238 ). It is often misdiagnosed as T1DM or T2DM. Several genetic abnormalities have been found that account for the disorder. Some members of an affected family may have the genetic defect but not develop the diabetes phenotype. Whether this is due to modifying genes or environmental factors is unclear. MODY differs from the classical immunological T1DM in several ways. With MODY, a dominant family history of diabetes (if known) is always present. However, de novo mutations can occur. Hyperglycemia is mostly mild with a minimal tendency to ketosis before the age of 25 years, the insulin secretion in response to oral (OGTT) or intravenous (IVGTT) glucose administration is modestly decreased, and evidence of islet cell autoimmunity is absent. It is estimated that more than 80% of patients with monogenic diabetes are either not diagnosed or are misclassified as type 1 or type 2 DM ( 239 ). The underlying genetic defects of the many MODY subtypes have been identified, as indicated below ( Table 11 ). To date, fourteen genetic forms of MODY are recognized. MODY resulting from defects in the glucokinase gene ( GCK ) and hepatocyte nuclear factor-1-alpha ( HNF-1α ) are the most common types seen during childhood (MODY-2) and post puberty (MODY-3), respectively. MODY Types 2 and 3 together constitute 80% of all cases of MODY syndromes. MODY 2 is the most common form of MODY with a prevalence of about 1:1000 people. It is caused by a dominant heterozygous inactivating mutation in glucokinase, the enzyme that phosphorylates glucose to permit its oxidation to ATP and hence insulin release. Insulin is released but at higher glucose concentration-the curve is right shifted but otherwise normal. Thus, fasting glucose is in the range of ~95-110 mg/dl and may remain above 140 mg/dl at 2 hours post prandial but returns to normal thereafter. HbA1c is in the range of 5.8-7.6%
