Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


is in the range of ~95-110 mg/dl and may remain above 140 mg/dl at 2 hours post prandial but returns to normal thereafter. HbA1c is in the range of 5.8-7.6% and generally remains in the low- mid 6% range. Patients are rarely symptomatic and may be discovered by chance when a blood glucose is obtained. Treatment is not necessary except during pregnancy in some cases; there is a very low prevalence of micro-macrovascular disease even after almost 50 years of follow-up. Young women are often discovered to have mid hyperglycemia when tested during pregnancy and erroneously labeled as having gestational diabetes. The non-affected fetus of an affected Mother may have some macrosomia in utero-the result of extra insulin secretion by the fetus in response to the maternal hyperglycemia ( 240 ). MODY3 is the next most common form of MODY caused by a heterozygous mutation in HNF-1 α , necessary for normal insulin secretion. Onset is usually in the teen years and glucose is in the mid-200s with mild to moderate symptoms. Patients may respond to sulfonylurea drugs initially, but later may go on to insulin dependence and more severe hyperglycemia. As with other MODY forms, a family history of diabetes is often obtained, with a diagnosis of T2DM common for older patients and T1DM in younger patients. Confirmation of the diagnosis by molecular testing is essential for recommending treatment and family counseling ( 241 ). Defects in four pancreatic ß cell-specific transcription factor genes, HNF-1β (MODY5), HNF- 4α (MODY1), pancreatic and duodenal homeobox 1 gene (PDX1) [previously termed insulin promoter factor-1 (IPF-1)] (MODY4) and neurogenic differentiation 1 gene ( NeuroD1 ) and BETA2 (MODY6) are responsible for others. In contrast to MODY-2, patients with heterozygous mutations in the HNF1A , HNF4A , or HNF1B and more rarely in PDX1 or NEUROD1 have progressive deterioration in glucose tolerance and are at risk for developing complications of diabetes ( 242 ). More recently, mutations in the tumor suppressor protein KLF-11 (MODY7), the carboxyl ester lipase CEL (MODY8), the transcription factor, paired box gene 4, PAX-4 (MODY9), the insulin gene, INS (MODY10), and tyrosine kinase, B-lymphocyte specific gene, BLK (MODY11) have been described. MODY 12 and MODY 13 are due to mutations in the ABCC8 and KCNJ11 genes, respectively. Mutations in these 2 genes also have been reported in neonatal diabetes. They are very rare and represent fewer than 1% of all
