Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


of 1:100,000-1:200,000 live births ( 232 , 258 ). It presents in first 6 months of life and its’ severity depends on the underlying mutation in that it is either transient or permanent. Almost 50% of cases with neonatal diabetes are permanent (PND) while the remainder are “transient” (TNDM) in that they remit, but may reappear and become apparent later in life or at times of stress. Heterozygous activating mutations in KCNJ11 and ABCC8 —which encode the Kir6.2 and SUR1 subunits, respectively, of the ATP-sensitive potassium channel, are the most common causes of PND. Missense mutations in the INS gene are also identified in patients with PND and they may have an autosomal dominant or recessive inheritance pattern ( 232 , 254 , 258 ). Genetic diagnosis is important since the KCNJ11 and ABCC8 mutations respond to treatment by sulfonylureas, possibly without need for additional insulin therapy because these drugs can close the β cell potassium channel by an ATP-independent route ( 259 ). It is increasingly apparent that the same mutations can become manifest for the first time well beyond infancy and diagnosed as T2DM or rarely T1DM. Severe mutations in the KATP genes, especially KCNJ11 also may present with a neurological component in a syndrome known as DEND ( D evelopmental delay, E pilepsy, N eonatal D iabetes); early diagnosis and treatment with sulfonylurea drugs is reported to ameliorate the neurological manifestations as the KATP channels are expressed in the brain. The major form of transient neonatal diabetes results from anomalies of the imprinted region on chromosome 6q24,but mutations in KCNJ11 or ABCC8 can also cause TNDM ( 232 ). Various rare forms of syndromic disease which include NDM are described; early diagnosis may diminish or delay the hitherto described natural history and consequences ( 258 ). Mitochondrial Diabetes Point mutations in mitochondrial m.3243A→G cause another form of diabetes with an insulin secretory defect that is commonly associated with neuro-sensory hearing impairment and a strict maternal mode of inheritance ( 260 ). In addition, genetic abnormalities that result in the inability to convert pro-insulin to insulin ( 261 ), or the production of mutant insulin molecules ( 262 ), are other examples of specific genetic defects in ß cell function which are rare causes of diabetes. Chronic Illnesses Hemochromatosis is a progressively more common recognized cause of diabetes with aging, and does not present in a pediatric age
