Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


cell function which are rare causes of diabetes. Chronic Illnesses Hemochromatosis is a progressively more common recognized cause of diabetes with aging, and does not present in a pediatric age group. However repeated blood transfusions for conditions such as thalassemia major can lead to diabetes associated with hemosiderosis. Many patients with cystic fibrosis develop a form of T1DM often during their teenage years which may require insulin replacement and is labeled “cystic fibrosis related diabetes (CFRD)” ( 263 ). Most CF patients now live long enough for this to have become a more common problem with impact on overall well-being and severity of symptoms ascribed to CF and partially responsive to insulin therapy. DKA is rare in CFRD, perhaps because of the concurrent effects on the α-cell secreting glucagon as well as the β-cell secreting insulin. Patients with Gitelman’s syndrome develop diabetes which resolves when they are adequately replaced with magnesium, excessively lost through the kidneys in this syndrome. Gitelman syndrome is a recessively inherited genetic entity, but the presentation of DM is usually not until later midlife ( 264 ). Genetic Defects in Insulin Action There are a series of rare genetic abnormalities in the insulin receptor, or in the signal transduction events which follow insulin docking to its receptor resulting in diabetes. The recessive DNA breakage disease (Bloom’s syndrome) is associated with mild diabetes due to severe insulin resistance, with very high levels of circulating insulin and insulin like growth factor one (IGF-1). Progeria and lipodystrophy are other such causes ( 232 ). In the latter case, the absolute deficiency of leptin leads to uncontrolled lipolysis resulting in severe insulin resistance, which is partially reversible by leptin administration ( 232 )/ Endocrinopathies Associated with Hyperglycemia Several hormones, such as epinephrine, glucagon, cortisol, and growth hormone, antagonize the action of insulin. Whereas release of these hormones constitutes the protective counter regulatory response to hypoglycemia, primary over secretion of these hormones can result in glucose intolerance or overt diabetes. Cushing's syndrome, due to pituitary and ACTH secreting adenomas or adrenal hyperplastic disease or to exogenous glucocorticoid administration, can lead to diabetes ( 265 ). Steroid-induced diabetes is most often seen when there is pre- existing insulin resistance or a defect in insulin synthesis/secretion unmasked by the inability to increase insulin secretion to overcome the resistance to its actions induced by glucocorticoids. Acromegaly is associated with overt diabetes in 10 to
