Etiology and Pathogenesis of Diabetes Mellitus in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, cell, cells, type diabetes, free, glucose, patients, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


in insulin synthesis/secretion unmasked by the inability to increase insulin secretion to overcome the resistance to its actions induced by glucocorticoids. Acromegaly is associated with overt diabetes in 10 to 15% of cases, and impaired glucose tolerance in a further 50% ( 266 , 267 ). In acromegaly, there is marked insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemic responses; DM occurs only when the hyperinsulinemic response cannot match the requirement to overcome the degree of resistance. Pheochromocytomas are associated with both inhibition of insulin secretion and an increase in hepatic glucose output ( 268 ). These changes lead to impaired glucose tolerance, the severity of which is directly related to the magnitude of catecholamine production ( 269 ). When seen in children, these are usually a component of the Von Hippel-Lindau syndrome, MEN2, and NF1. Glucagon-secreting tumors (glucagonoma) are associated with an unusual constellation of clinical features, including skin rash, weight loss, anemia, and thromboembolic problems. Approximately 80% of these patients have either impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes ( 270 ). Somatostatin-secreting tumors (somatostatinomas) are typically associated with the triad of diabetes mellitus, cholelithiasis, and diarrhea with steatorrhea ( 271 ). Although thyroxine is not a counter regulatory hormone, hyperthyroidism can interfere with glucose metabolism. It is associated with both increased sensitivity of pancreatic ß cells to glucose, resulting in increased insulin secretion, and antagonism to the peripheral action of insulin. The latter effect usually predominates, leading to impaired glucose tolerance in some untreated patients ( 272 ). Drug- or Chemical-induced Diabetes A large number of drugs can impair glucose tolerance; they may act by decreasing insulin secretion, increasing hepatic glucose production, and/or by causing resistance to the action of insulin ( 273 ). Included in this list are several classes of antihypertensive drugs, such as beta blockers ( 274 ), protease inhibitors used for the treatment of HIV infection ( 275 ), and tacrolimus and cyclosporine used primarily to prevent transplant rejection ( 276 , 277 ). Drugs of the serotonin re-uptake inhibitor (SSRIs) class can lead to obesity, impaired glucose intolerance and T2DM, especially if individuals were already insulin resistant before they started such medications. There is a common association between obesity, insulin resistance, hypertension, and dyslipidemia, which has been called syndrome X or the metabolic syndrome ( 207 , 212 , 278 , 279 ). The administration of a thiazide diuretic or a ß-blocker to such patients can exacerbate the
