Peripheral Artery Aneurysms
KEYWORDS: aneurysms, artery, artery aneurysms, popliteal, peripheral, peripheral artery, rupture, popliteal artery, extremity, extremity aneurysms, repair, symptomatic, common, asymptomatic, limb


Peripheral artery aneurysms are abnormal dilations of the peripheral arteries caused by weakening of the arterial wall. Approximately 80% of peripheral artery aneurysms are popliteal aneurysms, and the majority of the remaining are iliofemoral aneurysms (1, 2). Aneurysms at these locations may accompany abdominal aortic aneurysms, and > 50% are bilateral. Rupture is relatively infrequent, but these aneurysms may lead to thromboembolism with acute distal artery occlusion. Peripheral artery aneurysms occur in men much more often than in women (at least 6:1), and mean age at presentation is in the 60s (3). Aneurysms in arteries supplying the arm are relatively rare and often traumatic; they may cause limb ischemia, distal embolism, and, when extending to the aortic arch, stroke. Infectious (mycotic) aneurysms may occur in any artery but are most common in the femoral artery. They are usually due to salmonellae, staphylococci, or Treponema pallidum, which causes syphilitic aneurysms. Common causes of peripheral artery aneurysms include: Atherosclerosis Trauma (eg, popliteal artery entrapment) Infection (eg, septic emboli, which cause mycotic aneurysms) Peripheral artery aneurysms are usually asymptomatic at the time of detection. Thrombosis or embolism (or rarely, aneurysm rupture) often leads to acute limb ischemia, in which extremities are painful, cold, pale, paresthetic, and/or pulseless. Infectious aneurysms may cause local pain, fever, malaise, and weight loss. Diagnosis is by ultrasound, magnetic resonance angiography, or CT angiography. Popliteal aneurysms may be suspected when physical examination detects an enlarged, pulsatile artery; the diagnosis is confirmed by imaging tests. Risk of rupture of extremity aneurysms is low but increases with increasing diameter above 2 cm. For leg artery aneurysms, surgical repair is elective. Repair is recommended for all symptomatic popliteal aneurysms, and for asymptomatic popliteal aneurysm ≥ 2 cm in diameter. Femoral artery aneurysms should be repaired when symptomatic or when twice the size of the normal blood vessel (4). Surgical repair is indicated for some arm artery aneurysms (5). The affected segment of artery is typically excised or ligated and replaced with a graft. Overall limb salvage rate after surgical repair of upper extremity aneurysms is 94 to 98% (6, 7). In certain patients, placement of an endovascular stent graft is another option for repair (8). Key Points Peripheral artery aneurysms occur mainly in men; the most common location is the popliteal artery. Complications are rare and include rupture and thromboembolism. Treat all lower extremity aneurysms when symptomatic; asymptomatic popliteal artery aneurysms when
