Approach to the Patient with Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, disease, therapy, feingold, pubmed, lipoprotein, wilson, disorders, endotext, statin


non-HDL-C levels are still elevated a recent study suggests further treatment with icosapent ethyl may be beneficial. Whether decreasing Lp(a) is beneficial in preventing cardiovascular disease is uncertain and further studies are in progress. Lifestyle changes are the initial treatment but in most patients’ drug therapy will be necessary. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The initial step is to decide which particular lipid/lipoprotein abnormalities need to be evaluated and whether they need treatment. These disorders can be divided into elevations of LDL-C, triglycerides (TGs), non-HDL-C, and Lp(a), and decreases in HDL-C. An increase in non-HDL-C accompanies an increase in LDL-C and/or TGs levels. Often a patient can have multiple lipid/lipoprotein abnormalities. For example, it is not uncommon for a patient to have high TGs with low HDL-C levels or high LDL-C and high Lp(a) levels. From a clinical point of view, one is not usually concerned if the LDL-C, Lp(a), or TG levels are low or if the HDL-C level is high. Very low levels of LDL-C and/or TGs suggest the presence of other medical issues such as hyperthyroidism, malabsorption, liver disease, chronic infections, cancer, etc. On rare occasions very low LDL-C levels or TG levels can be due to genetic disorders ( 1 ). Very high HDL-C levels can also be due to genetic causes ( 2 ). RULE OUT SECONDARY CAUSES The next step is to rule out secondary causes that could account for the abnormal lipid/lipoprotein levels. These secondary causes can be due to diet, various disease states, or medications. One should be suspicious of a secondary cause if a patient suddenly develops a lipid/lipoprotein abnormality or the lipid/lipoprotein profile suddenly worsens. Patients with genetic abnormalities causing dyslipidemia can have their disorder worsen if they develop secondary causes that further adversely affect lipid/lipoprotein levels. The key is that if one corrects the secondary cause the lipid/lipoprotein abnormality can often markedly improve or even disappear. For example, hypothyroidism can be accompanied by striking increases in LDL-C levels and the treatment of hypothyroidism can result in a large decrease in LDL-C, often to normal levels ( 3 ). Likewise, an improvement in glycemic control in a patient with poorly controlled diabetes may result in a large decrease in serum TG levels ( 4 ). Occasionally, the presence of dyslipidemia leads to the discovery of an unrecognized
