Approach to the Patient with Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, disease, therapy, feingold, pubmed, lipoprotein, wilson, disorders, endotext, statin


Conditions Associated with a Decrease in HDL Cholesterol Levels View in own window Marked hypertriglyceridemia Obesity Metabolic syndrome Type 2 diabetes Low fat intake Infection Inflammation Malignancy Severe liver disease Polycystic ovary syndrome Paraproteinemia (artifact of some assays) Table 6. Drugs That Decrease HDL Cholesterol Levels View in own window Anabolic steroids Danazol TZD + fibrate (idiosyncratic reaction) Beta-blockers Progestins Atypical anti-psychotics Table 7. Disorders or Drugs Associated with an Increase in Lp(a) Levels View in own window Chronic Kidney Disease Nephrotic Syndrome Inflammation Hypothyroidism Acromegaly Polycystic ovary syndrome Growth hormone therapy Androgen deprivation therapy Statins In a patient with an elevated LDL-C level, one should take a diet history, review the medication list, and check a TSH level to rule out hypothyroidism. Most of the disorders that cause elevations in LDL-C levels, other than hypothyroidism, should be obvious on routine history, physical examination, and laboratory screening. In a patient with an elevated TG level, one should take a diet history and in particular focus on the ingestion of simple sugars and ethanol. One should review the medication list and recognize that many common disease states can adversely impact TG levels including obesity, poorly controlled diabetes, chronic renal failure, HIV, and inflammatory disorders ( 4 , 6 - 9 ). Weight loss, improvements in glycemic control in patients with diabetes, and a reduction of inflammation can all result in a decrease in TG levels ( 4 , 7 , 8 ). In a patient with a low HDL-C level one should review the medication list and diet, recognizing that diets very low in fat can result in low HDL-C levels, which are often accompanied by low LDL-C and TG levels ( 10 ). In young or very fit males with very low HDL-C levels a careful history directed at anabolic steroid use is essential ( 3 ). THINK ABOUT GENETIC CAUSES One should always consider the possibility of a genetic disorder and therefore ask whether relatives have either premature cardiovascular disease, lipid disorders, or are taking lipid lowering medications ( 11 ). If the TG levels are markedly elevated one should inquire about a family history of pancreatitis. When the lipid/lipoprotein abnormality is markedly abnormal or begins at a young age, the likelihood of a genetic disorder is increased, and the family history assumes even greater importance. It is essential to think about the possibility of a genetic disorder because
