Approach to the Patient with Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, disease, therapy, feingold, pubmed, lipoprotein, wilson, disorders, endotext, statin


age, the likelihood of a genetic disorder is increased, and the family history assumes even greater importance. It is essential to think about the possibility of a genetic disorder because many of the common lipid disorders, such as familial hypercholesterolemia and elevations in Lp(a), have an autosomal codominant genetic transmission and therefore will be present in approximately 50% of family members ( 12 - 16 ). The recognition of the possibility of a genetic disorder will lead to screening family members and if abnormalities are found early treatment can be initiated, which may prevent the adverse consequences of hyperlipidemia. The monogenetic disorders that cause elevations in LDL-C and TGs levels and low HDL-C levels are shown in tables 8 - 11 . Table 8. Elevation in LDL Cholesterol (Familial Hypercholesterolemia) View in own window LDL receptor mutations Autosomal codominant Approx. 1 in 250 Apolipoprotein B mutations Autosomal codominant Approx. 1 in 1000 PCSK9 mutations Autosomal codominant rare Autosomal recessive hypercholesterolemia Autosomal recessive rare Lysosomal acid lipase deficiency Autosomal recessive rare Cholesterol 7 alpha hydroxylase deficiency Autosomal recessive rare Sitosterolemia (ABCG5/ABCG8) Autosomal recessive rare In autosomal codominant disorders heterozygotes have lipid abnormalities approximately half as severe as homozygotes. Table 9. Marked Elevations in TGs (Familial Chylomicronemia Syndrome) View in own window Lipoprotein lipase deficiency Autosomal recessive rare Apolipoprotein C-II deficiency Autosomal recessive rare Apolipoprotein A-V deficiency Autosomal recessive rare GPIHBP1 deficiency Autosomal recessive rare Lipase maturation factor 1 deficiency Autosomal recessive rare Table 10. Elevations in TGs and Cholesterol View in own window Familial Dysbetalipoproteinemia Apo E2/E2, rare mutations in Apo E 1-5/5000 Table 11. Decreased HDL Cholesterol View in own window Apolipoprotein A-I deficiency or variants Autosomal codominant rare Tangier disease (ABCA1 deficiency) Autosomal codominant rare LCAT deficiency Autosomal codominant rare In autosomal codominant disorders heterozygotes have lipid abnormalities approximately half as severe as homozygotes. Very frequently hypertriglyceridemia and/or hypercholesterolemia are due to polygenic inheritance secondary to combinations of common small effect genes that regulate the production or catabolism of lipoproteins ( 17 ). Additionally, some individuals who are heterozygotes for the gene abnormalities described in table 9 will have elevated TG levels. In addition, lifestyle, other disease states, and medications can interact with genetic susceptibilities to result in marked dyslipidemia and therefore even when a genetic disorder is present one should not ignore reversible factors where appropriate treatment can have marked effects on lipid levels. Often secondary factors facilitate
