Approach to the Patient with Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, disease, therapy, feingold, pubmed, lipoprotein, wilson, disorders, endotext, statin


dyslipidemia and therefore even when a genetic disorder is present one should not ignore reversible factors where appropriate treatment can have marked effects on lipid levels. Often secondary factors facilitate the expression of genetic variations to result in an abnormal lipid phenotype. One of the best examples of the interaction of secondary factors and genetic variants is familial dysbetalipoproteinemia ( 18 - 20 ). The apolipoprotein E2/E2 polymorphism occurs in approximately 1% of individuals whereas the clinical disorder only occurs in 1-5/5000 and is frequently associated with other disorders, such as obesity, hypothyroidism, and diabetes, which also perturb lipid metabolism. A detailed discussion of the genetic disorders that affect plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels can be found in the individual Endotext chapters that focus on these disorders. ORDERING SPECIAL LABORATORY STUDIES In most circumstances a routine lipid panel consisting of TGs, total cholesterol, HDL-C, and calculated LDL-C and non-HDL-C provides sufficient information to appropriately decide on who to treat and the best treatment approach. In a patient with high fasting TGs (>200-400mg/dl) where the LDL-C cannot be accurately calculated measurement of direct LDL-C may be helpful. However, it should be recognized that there are certain situations where more sophisticated and detailed laboratory studies can be helpful ( 21 ). Indications for measuring Lp(a) are shown in Table 12 ( 21 , 22 ). Note, it is the opinion of many experts and recommended by some guidelines that Lp(a) should be measured once in all individuals. The various specialized lipid and lipoprotein studies and their appropriate use are discussed in detail in the Endotext chapter “Utility of Advanced Lipoprotein Testing in Clinical Practice” ( 21 ). Table 12. When to Measure Lp(a) Levels View in own window Patients with premature CHD Patients with a strong family history of premature CHD Patients with a family history of elevated Lp(a) levels (Cascade screening) Patients with resistance to LDL-C lowering with statins Patients with familial hypercholesterolemia Patients with aortic valvular stenosis of uncertain cause Patients with an unknown cause of ischemic stroke Patients with intermediate risk profiles Note: It is the opinion of many experts that Lp(a) should be measured once in all individuals. DECIDING WHO TO TREAT The purpose of treating lipid disorders is to prevent the development of other diseases, particularly cardiovascular disease. Thus, the decision to treat should be based on the risk of the hyperlipidemia leading to those medical problems.
