Approach to the Patient with Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, disease, therapy, feingold, pubmed, lipoprotein, wilson, disorders, endotext, statin


is to prevent the development of other diseases, particularly cardiovascular disease. Thus, the decision to treat should be based on the risk of the hyperlipidemia leading to those medical problems. These issues are discussed in detail in the chapters on Risk Assessment and Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol and TGs ( 23 - 25 ). In addition to cardiovascular complications, marked elevations in TGs can lead to pancreatitis ( 23 , 26 ). The National Lipid Association recommends treating TG levels greater than 500mg/dl while the Endocrine Society recommends treating TGs if they are greater than 1000mg/dl to lower the risk of pancreatitis ( 27 , 28 ). GOALS OF THERAPY The current American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) guidelines do not emphasize specific lipid/lipoprotein goals of therapy but rather to just treat with the statins to lower LDL-C by a certain percentage ( 29 ). An exception is that they do recommend in patients with very high-risk ASCVD, to use an LDL-C threshold of 70 mg/dL to consider addition of non-statins to statin therapy. In contrast, other groups, such as the National Lipid Association, International Atherosclerosis Society, European Society of Cardiology/European Atherosclerosis Society, and AACE, do recommend lowering the LDL and non-HDL cholesterol levels to below certain levels depending upon the cardiovascular risk in a particular patient but the recommendations from these organizations are not identical ( 28 , 30 - 33 ). A detailed discussion of lipid/lipoprotein goals is provided in the chapter on Risk Assessment and Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol ( 25 ). It should be noted that many lipid experts would recommend trying to achieve an LDL-C levels less than 70mg/dl and non-HDL-C levels less than 100mg/dl in patients with cardiovascular disease or patients at very high risk for the development of cardiovascular disease. In other patients, an LDL-C level less than 100mg/dl and non-HDL-C level less than 130mg/dl is a reasonable goal. AACE and European Society of Cardiology/European Atherosclerosis Society have recommended LDL-C levels less than 55mg/dl in patients at very high risk ( 30 , 31 , 33 ). With the results of the IMPROVE-IT trial and PCKS9 inhibitor studies, which showed that adding ezetimibe or a PCSK9 inhibitor to statin therapy resulted in an additional decrease in LDL-C levels and a further reduction in cardiovascular events, the arguments in favor of trying to reach lower
