Approach to the Patient with Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, disease, therapy, feingold, pubmed, lipoprotein, wilson, disorders, endotext, statin


a PCSK9 inhibitor to statin therapy resulted in an additional decrease in LDL-C levels and a further reduction in cardiovascular events, the arguments in favor of trying to reach lower lipid/lipoprotein goals has been greatly strengthened ( 34 - 36 ). Moreover, the results of these and other studies provide strong support that the lower the LDL-C level the greater the reduction in cardiovascular events ( 37 , 38 ). TREATMENT TO REDUCE COMPLICATIONS OF DYSLIPIDEMIA The first priority in treating lipid disorders is to lower the LDL-C levels to goal, unless TGs are markedly elevated (> 500-1000mg/dl), which increases the risk of pancreatitis. LDL-C is the usual first priority because the data linking lowering LDL-C with reducing cardiovascular disease are extremely strong and we now have the ability to markedly decrease LDL-C levels. Dietary therapy is the initial step but in the majority of patients’ dietary modifications will not be sufficient to achieve the LDL-C goals. If patients are willing and able to make major changes in their diet it is possible to achieve remarkable reductions in LDL-C levels but this seldom occurs in clinical practice ( 10 ). Additionally, the dietary changes need to be sustained for a long period of time to be effective and many patients while able to follow an LDL-C lowering diet in the short term are unable to follow the diet for an extended period of time. Primary Prevention Patients The first step is determining the risk for developing atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. There are a number of different calculators for determining risk. In the US the most popular is the ACC/AHA risk calculator) ( 29 ) or the PREVENT risk calculator ( 39 ) whereas in Europe the SCORE (Systematic Coronary Risk Estimation) is popular ( 31 , 40 ). The ACC/AHA recommendations are shown in Figure 1 and the European Society of Cardiology/European Atherosclerosis Society recommendations are shown in Figure 2 . Figure 1. ACC/AHA Recommendations for Patients without ASCVD, Diabetes, or LDL-C greater than 190mg/dl ( 29 ). Risk enhancers are listed in table 13 . (Note the risk is for MI and stroke, both fatal and nonfatal). Table 13. ASCVD Risk Enhancers View in own window Family history of premature ASCVD Persistently elevated LDL > 160mg/dl Chronic kidney disease Metabolic syndrome History of preeclampsia History of premature menopause Inflammatory disease (especially rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, HIV) Ethnicity (e.g., South Asian ancestry)
