Approach to the Patient with Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, disease, therapy, feingold, pubmed, lipoprotein, wilson, disorders, endotext, statin


10-20mg or rosuvastatin 5-10mg) and increase the statin dose, if necessary, to achieve LDL-C goals. Statins are available as generic drugs and therefore are relatively inexpensive. If a patient does not achieve their LDL-C goal on intensive statin therapy, cannot tolerate statin therapy, or is able to take only a low dose of a statin one can use ezetimibe (generic drug), bempedoic acid, bile acid sequestrants, or PCSK9 inhibitors to further lower LDL-C levels (for detailed discussion of cholesterol lowering drugs see ( 44 )). It should be noted that the addition of ezetimibe or a PCSK9 inhibitor to statin therapy has been shown to reduce cardiovascular events ( 34 - 36 ). In most situations, ezetimibe is the drug of choice given its low cost, ability to reduce ASCVD events, and long-term safety record. If LDL-C is not close to goal PCSK9 inhibitors can be used. In patients intolerant of statin therapy bempedoic acid has been shown to reduce cardiovascular disease ( 45 ). Once LDL-C is at goal if the non-HDL-C remains high one can consider the approaches described in the section describing the approach to patients with LDL-C at goal with elevated TGs. Patients with LDL Cholesterol Greater than 190mg/dl When the LDL-C is greater than 190mg/dl the patient should be started on intensive statin therapy (atorvastatin 40-80mg per day or rosuvastatin 20-40mg per day). If the LDL-C goal is not achieved (usually < 100mg/dL but if patient is high risk < 70mg/dL) additional lipid lowering medications should be added. If the LDL-C is relatively close to goal one can use ezetimibe but if the LDL-C is far from the goal the use of a PCSK9 inhibitor should be employed. Because of the potential for a genetic disorder, either monogenic or polygenic, one should check family members for lipid abnormalities. If possible genetic testing for monogenic disorders causing hypercholesterolemia is recommended ( 46 ). Patients with Diabetes Most patients with diabetes (age 40-75) without risk factors should be started on moderate statin therapy (for example atorvastatin 10-20mg or rosuvastatin 5-10mg). In young individuals (< age 40) and older individuals (> age 75) one needs to use clinical judgment. Patients with diabetes with ASCVD or risk factors should be started on intensive statin therapy. In my opinion reasonable goals are shown in table 17 (similar to AACE and ADA guidelines) ( 30 , 47 ). If intensive statin
