Approach to the Patient with Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, disease, therapy, feingold, pubmed, lipoprotein, wilson, disorders, endotext, statin


be started on intensive statin therapy. In my opinion reasonable goals are shown in table 17 (similar to AACE and ADA guidelines) ( 30 , 47 ). If intensive statin therapy does not achieve LDL-C goals additional drugs can be added. If reasonably close to the LDL-C goal the initial drug added should be ezetimibe. If far from goal one could add a PCSK9 inhibitor. Once LDL-C is at goal if the non-HDL-C remains high one can consider the approaches described in the section describing the approach to patients with LDL-C at goal with elevated TGs. Table 17. ASCVD Risk Categories and Treatment Goals View in own window Risk Category Risk Factors/10-year risk LDL-C mg/dl Non-HDL-C mg/dl Extreme Risk Diabetes and clinical cardiovascular disease <55 <80 Very High Risk Diabetes with one or more risk factors <70 <100 High Risk Diabetes and no other risk factors <100 <130 Secondary Prevention Patients Patients with ASCVD (secondary prevention patients) should be started on intensive statin therapy (atorvastatin 40-80mg per day or rosuvastatin 20-40mg per day). Given the extensive data showing that the lower the LDL-C the greater the reduction in ASCVD events most secondary prevention patients would benefit from the addition of ezetimibe to maximize LDL-C lowering without markedly increasing costs ( 37 , 38 ). The goal LDL-C in this patient population at a minimum is an LDL<70mg/dL but many experts and some guidelines would prefer an LDL-C<55mg/dL if possible. If on intensive statin therapy and ezetimibe treatment the LDL-C is far above goal one could consider adding a PCSK9 inhibitor (this is particularly necessary if the LDL-C is greater than 100mg/dL or the patient is at very high risk due to other factors (diabetes, cerebral vascular disease, peripheral vascular disease, recent MI, history of multiple MIs) ( 37 , 38 ). Patients with LDL Cholesterol at Goal but High TGs (>150mg/dL to <500mg/dL) Patients with an LDL-C at goal but high TG levels (>150mg/dL to <500mg/dL) will often have increased non-HDL-C levels. Numerous studies have shown that the risk of ASCVD events is increased in this patient population ( 48 ). The initial step should be to improve lifestyle, treat secondary disorders that may be contributing to the increase in TGs, and if possible, discontinue medications that increase TG levels. In the era of statin therapy, it is uncertain whether lowering TG levels in patients on statin therapy will further
