Approach to the Patient with Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, disease, therapy, feingold, pubmed, lipoprotein, wilson, disorders, endotext, statin


TGs, and if possible, discontinue medications that increase TG levels. In the era of statin therapy, it is uncertain whether lowering TG levels in patients on statin therapy will further reduce cardiovascular events. Studies have not demonstrated a reduction in cardiovascular events when niacin is added to statin therapy and given the side effects of niacin enthusiasm for using niacin in combination with statins to reduce ASCVD is limited ( 49 , 50 ). Additionally, the ACCORD-LIPID trial failed to demonstrate that adding fenofibrate to statin therapy ( 51 ) and the PROMINENT trial failed to demonstrate that adding pemafibrate to statin therapy ( 52 ) reduces cardiovascular disease. Thus, there is little evidence that adding either niacin or a fibrate to statin therapy will be beneficial in reducing cardiovascular events. The REDUCE-IT trial demonstrated that adding the omega-3-fatty acid icosapent ethyl (EPA; Vascepa) to statin therapy in patients with elevated TG levels reduced the risk of ASCVD events by 25% while decreasing TG levels by 18% ( 53 ). Similar results were seen in the JELIS and RESPECT-EPA trials ( 54 , 55 ). In these trials the reduction in TG levels was relatively modest and would not have been expected to result in the magnitude of the decrease in cardiovascular disease observed. Other actions of EPA, such as decreasing platelet function, anti-inflammation, decreasing lipid oxidation, stabilizing membranes, etc. could account for or contribute to the reduction in cardiovascular events ( 56 ). It should be recognized that the STRENGTH and OMEMI trials using EPA and DHA failed to reduce cardiovascular events despite reducing TG levels to a similar degree as in the REDUCE-IT trial ( 57 , 58 ). Whether EPA has special properties that resulted in the reduction in cardiovascular events in the REDUCE-IT, JELIS, and RESPECT-EPA trials or there were flaws in these trials is debated ( 56 , 59 ). Clinicians will need to balance the potential benefits vs. potential side effects and decide for the individual patient whether to treat with EPA (icosapent ethyl). For a detailed discussion of TG lowering drugs see the Endotext chapter on this topic ( 60 ). Patients with Very High TG Levels (>500-1000mg/dL) The main aim is to keep TG levels below 500 mg/dL to prevent TG-induced pancreatitis ( 26 , 61 ). FAMILIAL HYPERCHYLOMICRONEMIA (FCS) FCS is a rare autosomal recessive disorder due to an abnormality in
