Approach to the Patient with Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, disease, therapy, feingold, pubmed, lipoprotein, wilson, disorders, endotext, statin


keep TG levels below 500 mg/dL to prevent TG-induced pancreatitis ( 26 , 61 ). FAMILIAL HYPERCHYLOMICRONEMIA (FCS) FCS is a rare autosomal recessive disorder due to an abnormality in the genes listed in table 9 that result in the absence of functional lipoprotein lipase (LPL) activity ( 61 - 63 ). Patients with FCS respond poorly to most TG lowering drugs (fibrates, omega-3-fatty acids, niacin) ( 61 - 63 ). A very low-fat diet (5-10% of total calories) is the most effective treatment but can be difficult for many patients to comply with ( 61 - 63 ). Orlistat has been effective in lowering TG levels ( 63 ). Apo C-III inhibitors are approved in the US and Europe and lower Apo C-III levels and are very effective in lowering TG levels in patients with FCS ( 60 , 63 ). Additionally, they also reduce episodes of pancreatitis ( 60 ). MULTIFACTORIAL CHYLOMICRONEMIA SYNDROME (MCS) MCS is due to the coexistence of a genetic predisposition (polygenic or heterozygous for genes that cause FCS) for hypertriglyceridemia with 1 or more secondary causes of hypertriglyceridemia (see tables 3 and 4 ) ( 18 , 26 , 61 , 62 ). Initial treatment is a very low-fat diet to reduce TG levels into a safe range (<1000mg/dL). Treating secondary disorders that raise TG levels and when possible, stopping drugs that increase TG levels is essential ( 18 , 26 , 61 , 62 ). If the TG levels remain above 500mg/dL the addition of fenofibrate or omega-3-fatty acids is indicated. Many patients with MCS are at high risk for ASCVD and therefore after TG levels are controlled the patient should be evaluated for cardiovascular disease risk and if indicated statin therapy initiated. Patients with High Lp(a) Levels Life style changes do not significantly lower Lp(a) levels ( 64 ). The effect of lipid lowering drugs on Lp(a) levels is shown in Table 18 . In patients with elevations in Lp(a) the initial therapy is to aggressively control the other cardiovascular disease risk factors. In some instances, one can use niacin, PCSK9 inhibitors, or in postmenopausal women estrogen to lower Lp(a) levels but the effect of these drugs on preventing cardiovascular events by lowering Lp(a) levels is uncertain ( 16 , 65 ). Studies of an antisense oligonucleotide or small interfering RNA (both not yet approved) directed at apo(a) have shown that these
