Approach to the Patient with Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, risk, ldl-c, patients, lipid, cardiovascular, disease, therapy, feingold, pubmed, lipoprotein, wilson, disorders, endotext, statin


lowering Lp(a) levels is uncertain ( 16 , 65 ). Studies of an antisense oligonucleotide or small interfering RNA (both not yet approved) directed at apo(a) have shown that these drugs can lower Lp(a) by >75% without effecting other lipoprotein levels ( 66 , 67 ). Lipoprotein apheresis can be employed to lower Lp(a) in patients with very high Lp(a) levels who continue to have cardiovascular events despite optimal medical management ( 68 ). Table 18. Effect of Lipid Lowering Drugs on Lp(a) Levels View in own window Statins No Effect or slight increase Ezetimibe No Effect or slight increase Fibrates No Effect Niacin Decrease 15-25%. Greatest decrease in patients with highest Lp(a) levels PCSK9 Inhibitors Decrease 20-30% Estrogen Decrease 20-35% Mipomersen** Decrease 25-30% Lomitapide* Decrease 15-20% Evinacumab* No effect in homozygous familiar hypercholesterolemia Decrease 16% in refractory hypercholesterolemia CETP Inhibitors** Decrease ~ 25% Apo (a) antisense and siRNA** Decrease > 75% * only approved for the treatment of Homozygous FH; **not currently available. Decreased HDL Cholesterol Levels Despite epidemiologic studies consistently showing that high HDL-C levels are associated with a decreased risk of cardiovascular disease there are no studies demonstrating that increasing HDL-C levels reduces cardiovascular disease ( 69 ). It should be recognized that the crucial issue with HDL may not be the HDL-C levels per se but rather the function of the HDL particles ( 69 ). Assays have been developed to determine the ability of HDL to facilitate cholesterol efflux from macrophages and these studies have shown that the levels of HDL-C do not necessarily indicate the ability to mediate cholesterol efflux ( 70 ). Similarly, the ability of HDL to protect LDL from oxidation may also play an important role in the ability of HDL to reduce ASCVD ( 71 ). Thus, the functional capability of HDL may be more important than HDL-C levels ( 69 - 71 ). CONCLUSION In summary, modern therapy demands that we aggressively evaluate and when indicated treat lipid disorders to reduce the risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and in those with very high TGs to reduce the risk of pancreatitis. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work was supported by grants from the Northern California Institute for Research and Education. REFERENCES 1. Shapiro MD, Feingold KR. Monogenic Disorders Causing Hypobetalipoproteinemia. In: Feingold KR, Ahmed SF, Anawalt B, Blackman MR, Boyce A, Chrousos G, Corpas E, de Herder WW, Dhatariya K, Dungan K, Hofland
