Endocrine Hypertension in Children and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypertension, syndrome, adrenal, gene, primary, children, mutations, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, cushing, patients


ABSTRACT Hypertension in children and adolescents is defined as a blood pressure ≥ 95th percentile (stage 1) or a blood pressure ≥ 95th percentile + 12 mmHg (stage 2), according to the Clinical Practice Guidelines of American Academy of Pediatrics published in 2017. Hypertension may be primary or idiopathic or secondary due to renal disease (including renal vascular abnormalities), cardiovascular disorders, or endocrine conditions. Endocrine hypertension might be caused by excess amount of steroid (aldosterone, deoxycorticosterone, cortisol, and other) or non-steroid hormones (such as catecholamines for example). In addition, a number of renal genetic disorders mimic adrenal diseases leading to hypertension. In this chapter, we provide an overview of the clinical manifestations of several nosological entities causing endocrine hypertension in children and adolescents and present the diagnostic work up and therapeutic management of these conditions. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Hypertension occurs in 3.5% of children and adolescence worldwide ( 1 ). Its prevalence has increased due to the epidemic of pediatric obesity ( 2 ). The 2017 Clinical Practice Guidelines of American Academy of Pediatrics (APP) suggested an updated definition of hypertension in children and adolescent using tables containing values of systolic and diastolic blood pressure adjusted for gender, age, and height. According to these guidelines, children or adolescents with a blood pressure ≥ 95 th percentile are classified as stage 1 hypertensive, whereas those with a blood pressure ≥ 95 th percentile + 12 mmHg are considered as stage 2 hypertensive ( 1 ). Hypertension in children and adolescents might be primary or secondary. Causes of secondary hypertension include renal or renovascular diseases, heart diseases (e.g. aortic coarctation), or endocrine nosological entities ( 1 , 2 ). Endocrine hypertension is defined as secondary hypertension caused by pathologies, such as various states of mineralocorticoid, glucocorticoid, or catecholamine excess, thyroid or pituitary hormone over-secretion, genetic disorders such as congenital adrenal hyperplasia (11β-hydroxylase deficiency and 17α-hydroxylase deficiency), and syndromes caused by molecular or chromosomal defects ( 3 ). Although the list of causes of endocrine hypertension is long, the prevalence of endocrine hypertension ranges between 0,05% to 6% among all causes of secondary hypertension ( 4 ). In addition to endocrine pathologies, the ever-increasing rates of obesity in childhood and adolescence have resulted in a dramatic increase of obesity-related hypertension with a prevalence of 25% ultimately leading to
