Endocrine Hypertension in Children and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypertension, syndrome, adrenal, gene, primary, children, mutations, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, cushing, patients


addition to endocrine pathologies, the ever-increasing rates of obesity in childhood and adolescence have resulted in a dramatic increase of obesity-related hypertension with a prevalence of 25% ultimately leading to adverse cardiovascular outcomes ( 1 , 2 ). In this chapter, we review the most common causes of endocrine hypertension in children and adolescents. DISORDERS OF THE ADRENAL CORTEX Syndromes of Aldosterone Excess PRIMARY ALDOSTERONISM Less than 15% of cases in children and adolescents with hypertension have been attributed to primary aldosteronism, which is characterized by autonomous excessive biosynthesis and release of aldosterone by the zona glomerulosa of the adrenal cortex ( 5 ). Most cases of primary aldosteronism are sporadic due to a unilateral aldosterone-producing adenoma or bilateral adrenal hyperplasia. Less commonly, primary aldosteronism results from unilateral adrenal hyperplasia ( 6 ). Children and adolescents with primary aldosteronism are often asymptomatic; however, the presence of resistant hypertension with hypokalemia or an adrenal lesion is highly suggestive of the diagnosis ( 7 ). Endocrinologic evaluation includes the measurement of plasma aldosterone concentrations (PAC) and plasma renin activity (PRA). The Aldosterone-to-Renin Ratio (ARR) remains the most reliable hormonal test ( 8 ). Indeed, patients with ARR above 27 ng/dL per ng/mL/h and PAC above 20 ng/dL (hyperaldosteronism) or with ARR within the normal range and PAC below 9 ng/dL (not hyperaldosteronism) on two serial measurements do not need to undergo dynamic tests ( 9 ). The dynamic tests include salt loading, saline infusion, or fludrocortisone administration, which all normally cause aldosterone suppression. The patients then undergo adrenal imaging with computerized tomography (CT) to identify any adrenal nodules or unilateral or bilateral adrenal hyperplasia ( 10 ). In cases of lateralization of aldosterone overproduction, unilateral laparoscopic adrenalectomy is a therapeutic option; otherwise, medical treatment with a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (spironolactone or eplerenone) is highly recommended. In patients who do not tolerate mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists, an epithelial sodium channel blocker, such as amiloride, might be administered ( 11 ) FAMILIAL HYPERALDOSTERONISM Familial Hyperaldosteronism Type I (FH-I) or Glucocorticoid Remediable Aldosteronism (GRA) FH-I or GRA is an autosomal dominant pathologic condition caused by the fusion of two genes, the cytochrome P450 family 11 subfamily B member 1 ( CYP11B1 ) encoding for 11β-hydroxylase, and the CYP11B2 that expresses aldosterone synthase ( 12 ). The chimeric gene consists of the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-responsive promoter region of the CYP11B1 gene and the coding region of CYP11B2
