Endocrine Hypertension in Children and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypertension, syndrome, adrenal, gene, primary, children, mutations, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, cushing, patients


the CYP11B2 that expresses aldosterone synthase ( 12 ). The chimeric gene consists of the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-responsive promoter region of the CYP11B1 gene and the coding region of CYP11B2 gene resulting in the expression of aldosterone synthase under the control of ACTH. Therefore, aldosterone is produced ectopically in zona fasciculata in an ACTH-dependent fashion ( Figures 1 and 2 ). Patients younger than 20 years with primary aldosteronism or with a family member with primary aldosteronism or history of hemorrhagic stroke before the age of 40 years should be screened for FH-I ( 13 ). Hormonal evaluation includes measurements of PAC and PRA, dexamethasone suppression of aldosterone, and genetic testing. According to the protocol of dexamethasone suppression of aldosterone, aldosterone is measured before and following the administration of 0,5 mg dexamethasone every 6 hours for 4 days ( 14 , 15 ). The cornerstone of therapeutic management is dexamethasone or prednisone at physiologic and below physiologic dosing to suppress ACTH, thereby leading to decreased production and release of aldosterone ( 16 ). Second-line options are spironolactone or eplerenone or amiloride ( 17 ), as above. Most of the time, treatment needs to be titrated to the individual carefully and over time, to avoid overtreatment with glucocorticoids and to achieve normal blood pressure in the long term. Figure 1. Molecular events of Familial Hyperaldosteronism Type I (FH-I) or Glucocorticoid Remediable Aldosteronism (GRA). Fusion of CYP11B1 encoding for 11β-hydroxylase, and the CYP11B2 that expresses aldosterone synthase results in a chimeric gene leading to ACTH-dependent aldosterone secretion. Familial Hyperaldosteronism Type II (FH-II) FH-II is the most frequent form of familial hyperaldosteronism found in 10% of children and adolescents with primary aldosteronism ( 18 , 19 ). In contradistinction to FH-I or GRA, patients with this FH type do not respond to synthetic long-acting glucocorticoids and do not harbor the chimeric CYP11B1/CYP11B2 gene ( 20 ). However, it remains difficult to distinguish FH-II from sporadic primary aldosteronism in terms of adrenal lesions found on CT. The molecular basis of FH-II has been attributed to gain-of-function mutations in the CLCN2 gene which encodes for the chloride channel 2 ( Figure 2 ) ( 21 , 22 ). The increased efflux of chloride in the zona glomerulosa results in continuous aldosterone secretion. Patients with FH-II are treated with mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists ( 23 ). Familial Hyperaldosteronism Type III (FH-III) FH-III is an autosomal dominant form
