Endocrine Hypertension in Children and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypertension, syndrome, adrenal, gene, primary, children, mutations, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, cushing, patients


zona glomerulosa results in continuous aldosterone secretion. Patients with FH-II are treated with mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists ( 23 ). Familial Hyperaldosteronism Type III (FH-III) FH-III is an autosomal dominant form of FH caused by germline gain-of-function mutations in the potassium inwardly rectifying channel subfamily J member 5 ( KCNJ5 ) gene that encodes for the potassium channel GIRK4 (Kir3.4) ( Figure 2 ) ( 24 ). Patients with FH-III are characterized by early-onset severe to resistant hypertension, very high PAC, extremely high 18-oxocortisol and 18-hydroxycortisol concentrations, as well as marked bilateral adrenal hyperplasia ( 25 ). Treatment options include administration of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists if the case is mild or bilateral adrenalectomy in severe cases ( 17 ). Familial Hyperaldosteronism Type IV (FH-IV) FH-IV should be suspected in children aged less than 10 years who present with early-onset hypertension and primary aldosteronism ( 13 ). Patients with FH-IV harbor mutations in the calcium voltage-gated channel subunit alpha 1H ( CACNA1H ) gene that encodes for the alpha subunit of the voltage-dependent T-type calcium channel Cav3.2 ( Figure 2 ). These genetic defects resulted in increased calcium influx in the cytoplasm of cells within the zona glomerulosa , thereby facilitating continuous aldosterone secretion ( 26 ). Patients may respond to calcium channel blockers ( 4 ). Primary Aldosteronism with Seizures and Neurologic Abnormalities (PASNA) or Familial Hyperaldosteronism Type V? (FH-V?) Scholl and collaborators have described two children with primary aldosteronism, seizures, and neurologic abnormalities ( 27 ). The patients harbored mutations in the CACNA1D gene which encodes the alpha-1 subunit of the voltage dependent Ca2+ L-type Cav1.3 channel ( 27 ). Figure 2. Genetic defects of the types of Familial Hyperaldosteronism (FH). FH-I is caused by the fusion of CYP11B1 encoding for 11β-hydroxylase, and the CYP11B2 that expresses aldosterone synthase. The molecular basis of FH-II has been attributed to activating mutations in the CLCN2 encoding for the chloride channel 2. FH-III is caused by germline activating mutations in the KCNJ5 that expresses the potassium channel GIRK4 (Kir3.4). FH-IV has been associated with mutations in the CACNA1H that encodes for the alpha subunit of the voltage-dependent T-type calcium channel Cav3.2. Syndromes of Deoxycorticosterone Excess CONGENITAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIA Congenital adrenal hyperplasia is a group of disorders characterized by defects in genes encoding for enzymes that participate in steroidogenesis ( Figure 3 ). Two forms of congenital adrenal hyperplasia, 11β-hydroxylase deficiency and 17α-hydroxylase deficiency,
