Endocrine Hypertension in Children and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypertension, syndrome, adrenal, gene, primary, children, mutations, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, cushing, patients


group of disorders characterized by defects in genes encoding for enzymes that participate in steroidogenesis ( Figure 3 ). Two forms of congenital adrenal hyperplasia, 11β-hydroxylase deficiency and 17α-hydroxylase deficiency, both present with hypertension and hypokalemia ( 28 ). Figure 3. Biochemical pathways of steroidogenesis. 11β-Hydroxylase Deficiency This is the second most common form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia (5%-8%) which is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion. 11β-hydroxylase deficiency results from genetic defects in CYP11B1 gene, and causes increased production of deoxycorticosterone, 11-deoxycortisol, and adrenal androgens ( 29 ). In addition, PRA is suppressed leading to decreased production of aldosterone in the zonal glomerulosa and hypokalemia. In girls, 11β-hydroxylase deficiency is a 46XX disorder of sex development (46XX DSD) leading to genital virilization. In boys, this form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia causes penile enlargement, precocious pubarche and puberty, as well as adrenal rests in the testicles ( 30 ). Hypertension may be present in up to 65% of patients ( 31 ). Treatment includes administration of synthetic glucocorticoids to decrease ACTH-mediated production of deoxycorticosterone and adrenal androgens. 17α-Hydroxylase Deficiency This form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia is also inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion and is caused by defects in the CYP17A gene that encodes for 17α-hydroxylase. This enzyme catalyzes 17-hydroxylation of pregnenolone and progesterone and cleaves the side chain of the steroid molecule at position 17, 20; thereby displaying lyase activity ( 28 ). 17α-hydroxylase deficiency leads to insufficient production of glucocorticoids and sex steroids and concurrent accumulation of deoxycorticosterone and corticosterone. Patients with 17α-hydroxylase may present with 46XY disorder of sex development (DSD) and absent Müllerian structures ( 28 ), hypergonadotropic hypogonadism with lack of development of secondary sex characteristics, and primary amenorrhea in 46XX individuals ( 32 - 34 ). They also display hypokalemic hypertension. The treatment basis of 17α-hydroxylase deficiency is supplementation with synthetic glucocorticoids. PRIMARY GENERALIZED GLUCOCORTICOID RESISTANCE (CHROUSOS SYNDROME) Initially described by Chrousos and collaborators ( 35 ), primary generalized glucocorticoid resistance or Chrousos syndrome is a rare endocrinologic condition characterized by incomplete resistance of target tissues to glucocorticoids ( 36 ). This syndrome is caused by genetic defects in NR3C1 gene which encodes for the human glucocorticoid receptor ( 37 ). The defective human glucocorticoid receptor (hGR) in both the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary causes impaired negative feedback loops leading to compensatory activation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis ( Figure 4 ). The increased levels
