Endocrine Hypertension in Children and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypertension, syndrome, adrenal, gene, primary, children, mutations, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, cushing, patients


glucocorticoid receptor (hGR) in both the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary causes impaired negative feedback loops leading to compensatory activation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis ( Figure 4 ). The increased levels of CRH and AVP may cause depression and anxiety, while the elevated ACTH concentrations lead to adrenal hyperplasia, increased production of steroid precursors with mineralocorticoid activity (deoxycorticosterone, corticosterone), increased biosynthesis and release of adrenal androgens, and elevated concentrations of cortisol ( 38 ). Patients may be asymptomatic or display hypertension with hypokalemic alkalosis or present with ambiguous genitalia, peripheral precocious puberty, amenorrhea, oligoamenorrhea, and decreased fertility ( Figure 4 ). As far as endocrinologic work-up is concerned, patients with Chrousos syndrome have increased urinary-free cortisol excretion, resistance of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis to increasing concentrations of dexamethasone, without any stigmata of Cushing’s syndrome. Treatment consists of high doses of dexamethasone only in symptomatic patients to prevent the development of ACTH-dependent adrenal adenomas ( 39 ). Treatment needs to be titrated to the individual carefully and over time, to avoid overtreatment with glucocorticoids and achieve normal pressure in the long term. Figure 4. Pathophysiology of Chrousos syndrome. ACTH: adrenocorticotropic hormone; AVP: arginine-vasopressin; CRH: corticotropin-releasing hormone; mGR: mutated Glucocorticoid Receptor; POMC: Pro-opiomelanocortin; wtGR: wild-type Glucocorticoid Receptor. Syndromes of Cortisol Excess The most common cause of Cushing’s in children and adolescents is chronic exogenous administration of synthetic glucocorticoids. As far as endogenous causes are concerned, hypercortisolism may be ACTH-dependent (such as in Cushing’s disease from pituitary tumors or ACTH-dependent Cushing syndrome from ectopic, non-pituitary tumors) or ACTH-independent (Cushing’s syndrome) ( Figure 5 ) ( 40 ). Hypertension in these patients might be attributed to several pathophysiological mechanisms that influence substantially peripheral vascular resistance, plasma volume, and cardiac output. Independently of etiology, 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (11HSD2) is less capable of converting the active cortisol to the inactive cortisone; therefore, the increased cortisol in the renal tubules binds to the mineralocorticoid receptor and leads to hypertension ( 41 ). ACTH-DEPENDENT CUSHING’S SYNDROME OR CUSHING’S DISEASE Cushing’s disease remains the most common cause of endogenous hypercortisolism in children aged more than five years and adolescents ( 42 , 43 ). Usually, an ACTH-producing corticotroph pituitary neuroendocrine tumor (PitNET) also termed as pituitary adenoma, leads to increased biosynthesis and secretion of cortisol by zona fasciculata and adrenal androgens by zona reticularis ( 44 ). Hyperandrogenism (testosterone, Δ4-androstenedione, DHEAS) results in virilization with pseudo precocious puberty. Hypokalemic hypertension
