Endocrine Hypertension in Children and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypertension, syndrome, adrenal, gene, primary, children, mutations, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, cushing, patients


biosynthesis and secretion of cortisol by zona fasciculata and adrenal androgens by zona reticularis ( 44 ). Hyperandrogenism (testosterone, Δ4-androstenedione, DHEAS) results in virilization with pseudo precocious puberty. Hypokalemic hypertension is caused by the saturation of renal 11HSD2 due to increased cortisol concentrations. Another cause of ACTH dependent Cushing’s syndrome is the ectopic production and release of ACTH by carcinoid tumors in the thymus, bronchus, or pancreas; medullary carcinomas of the thyroid, small cell carcinoma of the lung, pheochromocytomas or other neuroendocrine tumors ( 45 ). Finally, pituitary blastomas, although extremely rare, represent a cause of Cushing’s disease in infants ( 46 ). The recommended therapy in patients with Cushing’s disease is transsphenoidal surgical excision of the adenoma with cure reaching the percentage of more than 75% in hands of high-volume surgeons ( 47 ). Up to 30% of ACTH-producing pituitary adenomas in children harbor somatic “hot-spot” mutations in the USP8 gene that encodes for the ubiquitin-specific protease 8 ( Figure 5 ) which may lead to targeted medical therapies in the future ( 48 , 49 ). ACTH-INDEPENDENT CUSHING’S SYNDROME Cushing’s syndrome in childhood and adolescence is caused by autonomous (ACTH-independent) secretion of cortisol by the adrenal cortex is an extremely rare condition. It accounts for 10%-15% of hypercortisolemia and is caused by unilateral adrenal lesions, including adrenocortical adenomas or carcinomas (discussed below), or bilateral adrenocortical disorders ( 50 ). Bilateral adrenocortical hyperplasias (BAHs) account for less than 2% of all cases of Cushing’s syndrome in pediatric and adult patients ( 50 ). BAHs are classified as macronodular (nodules with diameter greater than 1 cm) or micronodular (nodules with diameter less than 1 cm) ( 51 ). In addition to the size of nodules identified on high-resolution computed tomography (CT), BAHs are classified based on the existence of pigmentation on pathologic examination. The most common type of BAH in children is micronodular adrenocortical disease, which is further classified in primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD) and isolated micronodular adrenocortical disease (iMAD). PPNAD is characterized by dark brown pigmented adrenal micronodules that are surrounded by an atrophic cortex and is due to PRKAR1A mutations; in contrast, iMAD is characterized by the absence of extensive pigmentation and lack of PRKAR1A defects ( 52 ). Another cause of Cushing’s syndrome is primary bilateral macronodular adrenal hyperplasia (PBMAH) or massive macronodular adrenal hyperplasia (MMAD), which is characterized by adrenal nodules with a diameter
