Endocrine Hypertension in Children and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypertension, syndrome, adrenal, gene, primary, children, mutations, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, cushing, patients


( 52 ). Another cause of Cushing’s syndrome is primary bilateral macronodular adrenal hyperplasia (PBMAH) or massive macronodular adrenal hyperplasia (MMAD), which is characterized by adrenal nodules with a diameter greater than 1 cm. The molecular basis of this condition has been ascribed to ARMC5 gene mutations in about 50% of the cases ( Figure 5 ) ( 53 ). Figure 5. Genetic defects of Cushing’s disease and Cushing’s syndrome. AC: adenylate cyclase; ACTH: adrenocorticotropic hormone; AIP: aryl-hydrocarbon receptor-interacting protein; ARMC5: armadillo repeat containing 5; BMAH: bilateral macronodular adrenal hyperplasia; Brg1: Brahma‐related gene 1; Cα: catalytic subunit of PKA; CDKI: cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor; CDKN1B (also known as p27Kip1); CTNNB1: catenin beta 1; DOT1: Disruptor of telomeric silencing 1; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; GNAS: Guanine Nucleotide binding protein; GPCR: G-protein-coupled receptor; HDAC2: Histone Deacetylase 2; MC2R: melanocortin 2 receptor; MEN1: multiple endocrine neoplasia 1; PDEs: phosphodiesterases; PKA: protein kinase A; POMC: Pro-opiomelanocortin; PPNAD: primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease; PRUNE2: prune homologue 2; PTTG: pituitary transforming gene; Rlα: type 1α regulatory subunit of PKA; SDH: succinate dehydrogenase subunit; TR4: testicular orphan receptor 4; USP8: ubiquitin-specific peptidase 8. ADRENOCORTICAL CARCINOMA Adrenocortical carcinoma is a very rare pathologic condition which may occur at any age with a first peak before the age of 5 years and a second peak in adulthood between the fourth and fifth decades ( 54 ). It may be present in the context of Li-Fraumeni syndrome, which is caused by germline mutations in TP53 gene, a tumor suppressor gene located on chromosome 17. In contradistinction to adrenocortical carcinomas found in adults, mutations in the CTNNB1 gene that encodes for β-catenin are not frequently detected ( 55 ). Adrenocortical carcinoma in children usually presents with hypertension and increased concentrations of adrenal androgens, especially DHEAS, causing virilization, early pubarche, altered voice timber and irritability. McCUNE-ALBRIGHT SYNDROME This rare syndrome is characterized by the classic triad of cafe-au-lait skin macules, polyostotic fibrous dysplasia, and hyperfunctioning endocrinopathies ( 56 ). The molecular basis of this condition has been ascribed to postzygotic somatic activating mutations in the GNAS1 gene encoding for the alpha subunit of Gs protein ( 57 ). Hypertension in McCune-Albright syndrome has been associated with Cushing syndrome, often seen in infancy, thyrotoxicosis, or hypersecretion of growth hormone ( 58 ). CARNEY COMPLEX Carney complex is inherited in an autosomal-dominant fashion and is caused by mutations in the PRKAR1A gene (17q22-24) encoding
