Endocrine Hypertension in Children and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypertension, syndrome, adrenal, gene, primary, children, mutations, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, cushing, patients


thyrotoxicosis, or hypersecretion of growth hormone ( 58 ). CARNEY COMPLEX Carney complex is inherited in an autosomal-dominant fashion and is caused by mutations in the PRKAR1A gene (17q22-24) encoding the regulatory subunit type I alpha of protein kinase A ( 59 ). The cardinal clinical manifestations often seen in patients with the complex include lentigines, cardiac and breast myxomas, and PPNAD that causes ACTH-independent Cushing’s syndrome ( 60 , 61 ). The latter is responsible for hypertension in these patients. DISORDERS OF THE ADRENAL MEDULLA Conditions with Catecholamine Excess PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA AND PARAGANGLIOMA Pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas are rare tumors that produce and release excess amount of catecholamines into the systemic circulation. They both account for 0.5%-2% of hypertension in children and adolescents ( 62 ). According to Sarathi, 10% of pediatric pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas are malignant, 20% of them are synchronous bilateral, 30% are extra-adrenal, and 40% are familial ( 63 ). These tumors occur more frequently in boys (60%), present with hypertension (70%), and may be sporadic or in the context of specific syndromes, including neurofibromatosis type 1 caused by NF1 gene mutations, Von Hippel-Lindau disease type 2 due to VHL genetic defects, and multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 caused by mutations in the RET gene ( 64 ). Rarely, pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas may present in paragangliomas syndromes caused by germline mutations in genes encoding the subunits D, AF2, C, B, and A of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), or in the Pacak-Zhuang syndrome due to activating genetic defects in hypoxia-inducible factor 2 alpha (HIF2A), or in familial pheochromocytomas characterized by Myc-associated protein X (MAX) and transmembrane protein 127 (TMEM127) gene mutations. Although an ever-increasing number of predisposing genes have been identified so far, it is worth mentioning that most genetic defects in patients with pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas remain unidentified ( 65 ). Clinical manifestations include hypertension in 70%-90% of pediatric patients, flushing, hyperhidrosis, palpitations, tremors, headaches, nausea and/or vomiting during exercise, hyperactivity, or worsening of school performance. According to the recently published international consensus statement on the diagnostic work-up and the therapeutic management of pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas ( 66 ), the laboratory evaluation includes plasma-free or urine (spot or 24-h) levels of normetanephrine and metanephrine using liquid chromatography. In those children and adolescents with elevated concentrations of catecholamines, either MRI or CT should be performed for tumor localization ( 66 ). In cases of multiple and/or metastatic lesions, functional imaging,
