Endocrine Hypertension in Children and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypertension, syndrome, adrenal, gene, primary, children, mutations, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, cushing, patients


children and adolescents with elevated concentrations of catecholamines, either MRI or CT should be performed for tumor localization ( 66 ). In cases of multiple and/or metastatic lesions, functional imaging, including [ 68 Ga]DOTATATE, [ 18 F]fluorodopa (FDOPA), and [ 18 F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET–CT, as well as [ 123 I]MIBG scintigraphy, should be considered. All children with pheochromocytomas or paragangliomas are highly recommended to undergo genetic testing for germline mutations ( 65 , 66 ). Surgical resection remains the treatment of choice in specialized centers with a multidisciplinary team. It is worth mentioning that minimally invasive procedures are preferred in cases with abdominal and pelvic pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas. Finally, special attention should be focused on preoperative treatment of hypertension using α-adrenoceptor blockers or calcium channel blockers or beta-adrenoceptor blockers especially in patients with persistent tachycardia ( 66 , 67 ). RENAL DISEASES MIMICKING ADRENAL DISORDERS Syndromes of Inappropriate Salt Retention LIDDLE SYNDROME Patients with Liddle syndrome present with hypertension starting at about two years of age, although the average age of hypertension onset was 15.5 ± 3.3 years, according to the large series of cases ( 68 ). In addition to early-onset hypertension, patients with this condition display hypokalemia, metabolic alkalosis, and suppressed PAC. The genetic basis of Liddle syndrome has been ascribed to activating mutations in the sodium channel epithelial 1 alpha, beta and gamma ( SCNN1A , SCNN1B , and SCNN1G ) genes that encode for the α, β, and γ subunits, respectively, of the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) of the renal tubule, also known as the amiloride-sensitive channel ( Figure 6 ) ( 69 ). ENaC inhibitors, such as amiloride or triamterene, with low salt diet remain the only effective treatment in patients with Liddle syndrome ( 70 ). GORDON SYNDROME OR PSEUDOHYPOALDOSTERONISM TYPE 2 OR FAMILIAL HYPERKALEMIC HYPERTENSION Gordon syndrome or type II pseudohypoaldosteronism (PHA II) is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion and is characterized by hypertension, metabolic acidosis, hyperkalemia and hyperchloremia ( 71 ). Endocrinologic evaluation reveals low PRA and, usually, decreased serum aldosterone concentrations ( 71 ). Five subtypes of PHA II have been reported with distinct genetic defects ( 72 ). The genetic basis of PHA II-A is less known, since no genetic defect has been identified yet; however, this subtype has been associated with chromosome region 1q31-q42. PHA II-B has been linked to mutations in the with-no-lysine kinase ( WNK4 )
