Endocrine Hypertension in Children and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypertension, syndrome, adrenal, gene, primary, children, mutations, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, cushing, patients


genetic defect has been identified yet; however, this subtype has been associated with chromosome region 1q31-q42. PHA II-B has been linked to mutations in the with-no-lysine kinase ( WNK4 ) gene (17q21), whereas genetic defects in the WNK1 gene (12p12.3.) have been associated with PHA II-C ( Figure 6 ). WNK genes encode WNK proteins, which function as serine-threonine protein kinases regulating the expression and action of cation-Cl− cotransporters (CCCs) such as the sodium chloride cotransporter (NCC), basolateral Na-K-Cl symporter (NKCC1), and potassium chloride cotransporter (KCC1) located within the distal nephron. Patients with PHA II-D and -E harbor variations in kelch-like 3 ( KLHL3 ) gene (5q31.2) that encodes for the adaptor protein KLHL3, and cullin-3 ( CUL3 ) gene (2q36) expressing the ubiquitin scaffold protein CUL3, respectively ( Figure 6 ) ( 73 , 74 ). Generally, patients with Gordon syndrome respond adequately to low sodium diet and thiazide diuretics ( 28 ). GELLER SYNDROME (MR ACTIVATING MUTATION SYNDROME) Geller syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant disorder characterized by hypertension, hypokalemia, low PRA, and low serum aldosterone concentrations ( 2 ). Patients with Geller syndrome harbor an activating mutation in the NR3C2 gene that encodes for the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) ( Figure 6 ) ( 75 , 76 ). This genetic defect leads to aberrant activation of the MR by cortisone, 11-DOC, and progesterone, all acting as antagonists of the wild-type MR; therefore, hypertension worsens during pregnancy due to increased progesterone concentrations. The therapeutic management includes administration of amiloride and finerenone ( 77 ). APPARENT MINERALOCORTICOID EXCESS (AME) SYNDROME (11β-Hydroxysteroid Dehydrogenase Deficiency Type 2) This syndrome is caused by inactivating genetic defects in the 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 ( HSD11B2 ) gene that encodes for the enzyme 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 converting cortisol to inactive cortisone in aldosterone-responsive target tissues ( Figure 6 ) (e.g., kidney) ( 78 ). The resultant high concentrations of cortisol bind to mineralocorticoid receptors which induce the expression of several responsive genes leading to hypertension, low renin and aldosterone concentrations, hypernatremia, hypokalemia, and metabolic alkalosis. In addition to hypertension, patients with AME syndrome may present with short stature, failure to thrive, polyuria, polydipsia, as well as hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis ( 78 ). To reach the diagnosis, a high ratio of 5b and 5a-tetrahydrocortisol steroids to tetrahydrocortisone in the urine should be confirmed, followed by sequencing of the HSD11B2 gene. Treatment should begin early to
