Endocrine Hypertension in Children and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypertension, syndrome, adrenal, gene, primary, children, mutations, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, cushing, patients


the diagnosis, a high ratio of 5b and 5a-tetrahydrocortisol steroids to tetrahydrocortisone in the urine should be confirmed, followed by sequencing of the HSD11B2 gene. Treatment should begin early to prevent left ventricular hypertrophy and/or cerebrovascular events, and includes spironolactone to block mineralocorticoid receptor activation, restriction of dietary intake of sodium, and potassium supplementation. In cases of nephrocalcinosis, patients should also receive chlorothiazide or hydrochlorothiazide to minimize hypercalciuria ( 78 ). Dexamethasone might be also administered as monotherapy or in addition to spironolactone, since dexamethasone reduces the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis through negative feedback loops at the levels of hypothalamus and pituitary. Moreover, dexamethasone does not have any affinity to 11β-HSD2 ( 78 ). Figure 6. Genetic defects of renal disorders mimicking adrenal diseases. Apparent Mineralocorticoid Excess (AME) syndrome is caused by inactivating genetic defects in the HSD11B2 that encodes for the 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 converting cortisol to inactive cortisone. The molecular basis of Gordon syndrome has been ascribed to mutations in the WNK genes expressing proteins that function as serine-threonine protein kinases regulating the expression and action of cation-Cl− cotransporters, such as the sodium chloride cotransporter. Gordon syndrome is also caused by mutations in KLHL3 that encodes for the adaptor protein KLHL3, as well as in CUL3 expressing the ubiquitin scaffold protein CUL3. Geller syndrome has been associated with activating mutations in the NR3C2 that encodes for the mineralocorticoid receptor. Liddle syndrome is caused by mutations in the SCNN1A , SCNN1B , and SCNN1G encoding for the α, β, and γ subunits, respectively, of the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) of the renal tubule. HSD11B2: 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2; HSPs: heat shock proteins; FKBP: immunophilin; KLHL3: kelch-like 3; MR: mineralocorticoid receptor; NR3C2: nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 2; WNK: with-no-lysine kinase. OTHER CAUSES OF ENDOCRINE HYPERTENSION Acromegaly In children and adolescents, growth hormone (GH) excess is rare. Its prevalence is approximately 30 cases per million in children aged 0-17 years in United States without any differences between males and females ( 79 ). Acromegaly is usually caused by a GH-secreting pituitary adenoma, but other less common causes include pituitary hyperplasia, multiple adenomas, or extremely rare cases of tumors secreting growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) ( 80 ). In 45% of cases, the molecular basis of GH-secreting adenomas or hyperplasia has been attributed to identifiable genetic defects, including mutations in the AIP gene (˃20%), duplications in the GPR101
