Endocrine Hypertension in Children and Adolescence
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hypertension, syndrome, adrenal, gene, primary, children, mutations, free, free article, pmc, article, pmc free, cushing, patients


In 45% of cases, the molecular basis of GH-secreting adenomas or hyperplasia has been attributed to identifiable genetic defects, including mutations in the AIP gene (˃20%), duplications in the GPR101 gene that cause X-LAG, post-zygotic mosaic GNAS mutations responsible for McCune-Albright syndrome (5%), whereas genetic defects in other genes, such as MEN1 , CDKN1B , PRKAR1A , PRKACB and SDH contribute in less than 1% each ( 81 ). Typical clinical manifestations in children and adolescents with acromegaly include overgrowth and tall stature if excess secretion of GH occurs before epiphyseal closure, acral enlargement, rectangular face, prognathism, headache, visual filed defects, sweating, delayed puberty, left ventricular hypertrophy, diastolic dysfunction, sleep apnea, hypertension, as well as glucose intolerance or even diabetes ( 79 ). The biochemical diagnosis of GH excess relies on elevated age-adjusted serum IGF-1 concentrations and failure to suppress GH following an oral glucose tolerance test. Treatment options include surgery, medical therapy, and radiotherapy ( 79 ). Thyroid / Parathyroid Dysfunction Thyroid or parathyroid dysfunction has been associated with hypertension in children and adolescents. Hypothyroidism is usually associated with increased diastolic blood pressure, whereas hyperthyroidism with elevated systolic blood pressure ( 82 ). In addition to thyroid disorders, hypertension has also been reported in patients with parathyroid dysfunction, although there are no data on its prevalence ( 83 ). CONCLUSIONS Endocrine hypertension in children is most often caused by excess steroids, with other hormonal abnormalities far less frequent. The tremendous progress on endocrine genetics and molecular biology has enabled a deeper understanding of the genetic basis of several endocrine pathologic conditions leading to hypertension. A detailed medical history and physical examination, as well as a careful interpretation of laboratory and hormonal results may lead to an early and accurate diagnosis ( Figure 7 ). The appropriate therapeutic management of these conditions is of paramount importance to prevent long term cardiovascular and other systemic complications. Figure 7. Diagnostic approach to endocrine hypertension. REFERENCES 1. Flynn JT, Kaelber DC, Baker-Smith CM, Blowey D, Carroll AE, Daniels SR, de Ferranti SD, Dionne JM, Falkner B, Flinn SK, Gidding SS, Goodwin C, Leu MG, Powers ME, Rea C, Samuels J, Simasek M, Thaker VV, Urbina EM; SUBCOMMITTEE ON SCREENING AND MANAGEMENT OF HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE IN CHILDREN. Clinical Practice Guideline for Screening and Management of High Blood Pressure in Children and Adolescents. Pediatrics. 2017 Sep;140(3):e20171904. [ PubMed : 28827377 ] 2. Kotanidou EP,
