Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting (CABG)
KEYWORDS: cabg, bypass, cpb, heart, patients, risk, complications, artery, coronary, off-pump, myocardial, coronary artery, mortality, stroke, dysfunction


Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) involves bypassing native coronary arteries that have high-grade stenosis or occlusion not amenable to angioplasty with stent insertion. Indications are changing as percutaneous interventions are being increasingly used. Chest X-Ray of a Patient After Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery Hide Details Frontal and lateral chest x-ray of a patient post coronary artery bypass surgery showing sternal sutures (black arrow) and surgical clips (red arrow). Traditional CABG Procedure Traditional coronary artery bypass grafting involves thoracotomy via a midline (median) sternotomy. A heart-lung machine is used to establish cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), allowing the heart to be stopped and emptied of blood to maximize operative exposure and facilitate vessel anastomosis; stopping the heart also markedly decreases myocardial oxygen demand. Before initiation of CPB, the patient is given a very high dose of heparin to prevent clotting in the bypass circuit. Then the aorta is cross-clamped and the heart is stopped by injection of a cardioplegic solution (crystalloid or more commonly blood-based) that also contains substances that help myocardial cells 1/5 tolerate ischemia and reperfusion. The cardioplegic solution and the heart are sometimes cooled slightly to enhance tolerance of ischemia; the patient’s body is cooled via the CPB machine for similar reasons. The left internal mammary artery is typically used as a pedicled graft to the left anterior descending coronary artery. Other grafts consist of segments of saphenous vein removed from the leg. Occasionally, the right internal mammary artery or radial artery from the nondominant arm can be used. On completion of the vascular anastomoses, the aorta is unclamped, allowing the coronary arteries to be perfused by oxygenated blood, which typically restores cardiac activity. Heparin anticoagulation is reversed by giving protamine. Despite cardioprotective measures, stopping the heart is not without consequences. During reperfusion, myocardial dysfunction is common and can lead to bradycardia, arrhythmias (eg, ventricular fibrillation), and low cardiac output; these events are treated by standard measures, such as pacing, defibrillation, and inotropic drugs. Typically, hospital stays are 4 to 5 days unless prolonged by complications or concomitant illnesses. Complications of coronary artery bypass grafting Complications and disadvantages of traditional CABG involve mainly Sternotomy Cardiopulmonary bypass Median sternotomy is surprisingly well tolerated; however, healing takes 4 to 6 weeks. Also, wound infections occasionally cause mediastinitis or sternal osteomyelitis, which can be difficult to treat. CPB causes several major complications, including Bleeding Organ dysfunction, including neuropsychiatric effects Stroke Post-CPB bleeding is
