Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting (CABG)
KEYWORDS: cabg, bypass, cpb, heart, patients, risk, complications, artery, coronary, off-pump, myocardial, coronary artery, mortality, stroke, dysfunction


wound infections occasionally cause mediastinitis or sternal osteomyelitis, which can be difficult to treat. CPB causes several major complications, including Bleeding Organ dysfunction, including neuropsychiatric effects Stroke Post-CPB bleeding is a common problem caused by various factors, including hemodilution, heparin use, platelet dysfunction due to exposure to the bypass pump, disseminated intravascular coagulation, and induced hypothermia. Organ dysfunction may result from a systemic inflammatory response caused by the CPB machine (probably due to exposure of blood components to the foreign material of the bypass circuit); this response can cause organ dysfunction in any system (eg, pulmonary, renal, brain, gastrointestinal). Aortic cannulation, cross-clamping, and release can trigger release of emboli, causing stroke. For patients with a normal-sized heart, no history of MI, good ventricular function, and no additional risk factors, risk is 1 to 2% for stroke. 2/5 Post-CPB neuropsychiatric effects may develop, probably secondary to microemboli, in about 25 to 30% (1). Cognitive or behavioral changes are more prevalent in older patients, prompting suspicion that these changes are most likely due to diminished "neuronal reserve," making older patients more susceptible to minor injuries incurred during cardiopulmonary bypass. Dysfunction ranges from mild to severe and may persist for weeks to years. It is not clear that using a beating heart technique (off-pump CABG, which uses no cardiopulmonary bypass) decreases long-term risks of neuropsychiatric effects. Other common complications of CABG include Arrhythmias Focal myocardial ischemia Global myocardial ischemia Perioperative myocardial infarction occurs in about 1% of patients. For patients with a normal-sized heart, no history of MI, good ventricular function, and no additional risk factors, risk is < 5% for perioperative MI. Atrial fibrillation occurs in 15 to 40% of patients, typically 2 to 4 days after surgery. Beta-blockers (including sotalol) and amiodarone appear to reduce the likelihood of the development of atrial arrhythmias after cardiac surgery. Nonsustained ventricular tachycardia may occur in up to 50% of patients. Mortality depends mainly on patients’ underlying health; operator and institutional experience (ie, number of annual procedures) also is important. In an experienced program, periprocedural mortality in otherwise healthy patients is typically < 1 to 3% (2). For patients with a normal-sized heart, no history of MI, good ventricular function, and no additional risk factors, risk is ≤ 1% for mortality. Risks of stroke, perioperative myocardial infarction, and mortality increase with age, poor LV function, and presence of underlying disease. A simple calculator can categorize
