Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting (CABG)
KEYWORDS: cabg, bypass, cpb, heart, patients, risk, complications, artery, coronary, off-pump, myocardial, coronary artery, mortality, stroke, dysfunction


risk is ≤ 1% for mortality. Risks of stroke, perioperative myocardial infarction, and mortality increase with age, poor LV function, and presence of underlying disease. A simple calculator can categorize risks associated with CABG into three groups (low, intermediate, high). The Society of Thoracic Surgeons (STS) publishes a more advanced Short-Term/Operative Risk Calculator used to assess risk of operative mortality, major morbidity, and complications after most cardiac procedure categories in the Adult Cardiac Surgery Database (ACSD) (eg, stroke, renal failure). CLINICAL CALCULATORS EuroSCORE for Cardiac Surgery Risk Assessment (additive version) Alternative CABG Procedures Alternative techniques seek to limit the complications of traditional coronary artery bypass grafting by Avoiding cardiopulmonary bypass (off-pump CABG) Avoiding median sternotomy (minimally invasive CABG) Both Off-pump CABG Cardiopulmonary bypass can be avoided in select patients by using techniques that allow the surgeon to revascularize the beating heart. Various devices and methods stabilize a portion of the myocardium, holding the operative site relatively motionless. Off-pump CABG procedures are more commonly done through small parasternal or intercostal incisions (minimally invasive CABG), sometimes with endoscopy or even robotic assistance, but they may be done through a traditional median sternotomy, which provides better operative exposure. Allowing the heart to beat means that the myocardium requires more oxygen than when CPB is used. Thus, the heart is sensitive to the interruption of blood flow necessitated while the vascular anastomosis is done; this interruption can cause ischemia or infarction in the myocardium supplied by the affected vessel. Some surgeons place a temporary coronary artery shunt to provide distal perfusion. Off-pump CABG is technically more challenging but may be appropriate in patients who have significant aortic calcifications that causes manipulation of the aorta to be of higher risk. Compared to on-pump procedures, off-pump CABG is associated with increased need for revascularization at one year. Minimally invasive CABG The minimally invasive CABG technique is somewhat more difficult to do and may not be suitable when multiple bypass grafts, particularly those involving vessels behind the heart, are required. Transfusion requirements, length of stay, and costs are typically less with off-pump CABG, but in some studies, the rate of the more serious complications of death, myocardial infarction, and stroke are similar to that of CABG using CPB. Thus, the theoretic advantages of avoiding CPB do not seem to have been fully realized. Minimally invasive CABG is usually done off-pump but may be done using CPB. In
