Cushing Syndrome/Disease in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cushing, syndrome, patients, disease, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, pediatric, pituitary, article pubmed, cushing syndrome, stratakis


ABSTRACT Endogenous Cushing syndrome (CS) is a rare pediatric endocrine condition commonly caused by pituitary corticotroph tumors or less often by adrenal or ectopic sources. The typical presentation of the child with CS includes weight gain with height deceleration, characteristic skin findings, and hormonal and biochemical findings indicative of excessive glucocorticoid production. The diagnostic evaluation of the patient with suspected hypercortisolemia initially involves the confirmation of cortisol excess in blood and/or urine, and then the identification of source. The first line of management usually requires surgical treatment of a pituitary or adrenal lesion. In persistent or recurrent disease, re-operation, medical treatment, or radiation should be considered. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Cushing syndrome (CS) describes the exposure of the body to supraphysiologic levels of glucocorticoids. Although exogenous (iatrogenic) CS is common, endogenous pediatric CS, is a rare pediatric endocrine condition. Population studies of the incidence of the disease have shown that endogenous CS occurs in about 3-50 cases per million people per year, depending on the population studied; pediatric patients in these studies represent 6-7% of all cases ( 1 - 3 ). ETIOLOGY Endogenous CS can be classified as ACTH-dependent (pituitary or ectopic) or ACTH-independent CS (adrenal-related, Table 1 ) ( 4 ). The etiology of pediatric CS differs based on the age group of the patient ( 5 ). In patients younger than 5 years of age, ACTH-independent CS is more common compared to older children and adolescents who usually present with ACTH-dependent CS. Ectopic CS (ECS) is rare at any age group ( 5 ). Table 1. Causes of Cushing Syndrome View in own window Type Source Mechanism Exogenous Iatrogenic Exogenous administration of supraphysiologic doses of glucocorticoids or ACTH Endogenous ACTH-dependent Pituitary Corticotroph pituitary neuroendocrine tumor Pituitary blastoma Ectopic Neuroendocrine tumors secreting ACTH and/or CRH ACTH-independent Unilateral adrenal (except in metastatic disease) Cortisol-secreting adrenocortical adenomas and carcinomas Bilateral adrenals Bilateral micronodular adrenocortical disease Primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD), isolated or in the context of Carney complex Isolated micronodular adrenocortical disease (iMAD) Bilateral macronodular adrenocortical disease ACTH-Dependent Cushing Syndrome ACTH-dependent CS is most commonly due to a corticotroph pituitary neuroendocrine tumor (PitNET, also called pituitary adenoma or Cushing disease, (CD). These are monoclonal lesions that continue to express some of the characteristics of the normal corticotroph cell which can be useful in the diagnostic
