Cushing Syndrome/Disease in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cushing, syndrome, patients, disease, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, pediatric, pituitary, article pubmed, cushing syndrome, stratakis


pituitary adenoma or Cushing disease, (CD). These are monoclonal lesions that continue to express some of the characteristics of the normal corticotroph cell which can be useful in the diagnostic evaluation of patients ( 6 , 7 ). Corticotroph-secreting PitNETs are usually microadenomas with median diameter of 5mm and do not often show signs of invasion to the cavernous sinus or other parasellar structures ( 8 ). Rare cases of aggressive PitNETs have been reported in the pediatric population with either resistance to treatment or distant metastasis (metastatic PitNETs) ( 9 ). These are associated with specific histologic subtypes, such as Crooke cell adenomas ( 9 ). Infantile onset of ACTH-dependent CS with a pituitary lesion is often due to a pituitary blastoma. In 2014 de Kock et al , collected tissues from several infants who had been diagnosed with very young onset CD and reported that the tumors were consistent with pituitary blastomas as they had histologic findings of undifferentiated epithelium Rathke-like cells, mixed with hormone producing cells ( 10 ). They were able to identify germline and/or somatic DICER1 gene defects in these patients, suggesting that pituitary blastoma is a rare but almost pathognomonic presentation of DICER1 syndrome ( 10 ). ECS is due to neuroendocrine tumors secreting ACTH and/or CRH outside the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. In older children and adolescents, the most common source of ECS are bronchial carcinoids, thymic carcinoids, and gastro-entero-pancreatic NETs ( 11 - 13 ). By contrast, in children younger than 5-10 years of age, ECS often presents in the context of pediatric specific tumors such as Wilm’s tumors, neuroblastomas, and others ( 13 , 14 ). ACTH-Independent Cushing Syndrome ACTH-independent CS is commonly caused by unilateral adrenocortical tumors, cortisol-producing adenomas or carcinomas ( 5 ). Cortisol-producing adenomas are benign lesions with isolated cortisol secretion, while adrenocortical carcinomas are aggressive tumors and may commonly co-secrete cortisol and androgens in up to 80% of all cases ( 15 , 16 ). Bilateral adrenocortical disorders account for <2% of all cases of CS but some subtypes may be more prevalent in children compared to adults given their association with germline genetic defects ( 17 ). Micronodular adrenocortical disease is the most common type of bilateral adrenocortical disorder in pediatric patients. This category may be further divided in primary pigmented micronodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD) where the adrenals present with multiple dark brown pigmented micronodules (due to lipofuscin
