Cushing Syndrome/Disease in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cushing, syndrome, patients, disease, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, pediatric, pituitary, article pubmed, cushing syndrome, stratakis


disorder in pediatric patients. This category may be further divided in primary pigmented micronodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD) where the adrenals present with multiple dark brown pigmented micronodules (due to lipofuscin deposition with most with diameter of <1cm) with internodular cortical atrophy, or the absence of these findings referred to as isolated micronodular adrenocortical disease (i-MAD) ( 18 ). PPNAD may be identified in the context of Carney complex (CNC) and less often as isolated PPNAD ( 19 ). Bilateral macronodular adrenocortical disease presenting with bilateral macronodules (most with diameter of ≥1cm) is rare in the pediatric population. GENETICS Genetic causes are found in less than half of the patients with pediatric CD and more commonly in adrenal-related CS. For patients presenting with pediatric onset CS, it is recommended to obtain genetic testing directed to the source of hypercortisolemia, i.e. adrenal vs. pituitary causes. Although the yield in CD may be low, in cases of pituitary blastomas or bilateral micronodular disease genetic testing has higher chance of identifying the genetic cause and lead to screening for other related manifestations that may be important, such as cardiac myxomas in patients with CNC. ACTH-Dependent Cushing Syndrome Germline mutations are identified in less than 10% of patients with pediatric CD ( 8 ). Of the most common causes are MEN1 (causing multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 syndrome, MEN1), CDKN1B (causing MEN4), and CABLES1 gene defects ( 20 ). Genes associated with familiar isolated pituitary adenoma (FIPA) syndrome, such as AIP , SDHx , and MAX , or syndromes associated with pituitary tumors amongst other manifestations, such as CNC due to PRKAR1A gene defects, do not commonly cause corticotropinomas and have only been reported in few case reports ( 21 ). As mentioned above, young children (<2 years old) presenting with pituitary blastomas should be screened for DICER1 gene defects ( 10 ). DICER1 codes for an endoribonuclease that processes miRNAs ( 22 ). Patients with DICER1 or pleuropulmonary syndrome present with multiple tumors in lungs, kidneys, multinodular goiter, and other manifestations. Pituitary blastomas are present in less than 10% of all patients and always within the first years of life ( 23 ). Somatic mutations are more likely to be identified in corticotropinomas. USP8 mutations in the 14-3-3 binding motif hotspot region of the gene have been reported as the cause of 40-60% of adults with CD ( 24 , 25 ). Pediatric data
