Cushing Syndrome/Disease in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cushing, syndrome, patients, disease, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, pediatric, pituitary, article pubmed, cushing syndrome, stratakis


mutations in the 14-3-3 binding motif hotspot region of the gene have been reported as the cause of 40-60% of adults with CD ( 24 , 25 ). Pediatric data suggest that USP8 mutations are less common and identified in up to 30% of cases ( 26 ). USP8 is a deubiquitinase involved in recycling of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and mutations in the hotspot region led to increased catalytic activity, activation of the EGF pathway, and increased POMC expression. In children, USP8 mutant tumors presented with larger size and higher risk for persistent disease after surgery or recurrence after initial remission ( 26 ). Data in adult patients did not confirm this finding, and the prognostic value of identifying a USP8 mutation is still unclear ( 27 ). Other somatic mutations identified in corticotropinomas include USP48 , TP53 , and BRAF , but the incidence in pediatric patients is unknown ( 28 ). Finally, in a subset of patients with pediatric corticotropinomas large genomic chromosomal deletions/gains are identified and are associated with larger tumor and higher risk of invasion of the cavernous sinus ( 29 ). ECS may present in various neuroendocrine tumors and the genetic background is associated with the primary tumor. MEN1, MEN2 ( RET gene mutations), and some gene fusions have been described according to the tissue involved in ectopic ACTH secretion ( 30 , 31 ). ACTH-Independent Cushing Syndrome Pediatric cortisol producing adrenocortical carcinomas may present in the context of TP53 mutations ( 32 ). In the Brazilian South and Southeast population, high prevalence of a germline founder TP53 mutation (p.R337H) is associated with high incidence of pediatric adrenocortical carcinomas ( 33 , 34 ). Germline TP53 mutations may also present as Li-Fraumeni syndrome where patients have high risk for breast, central nervous system, bone, and other tumors ( 35 ). Cortisol-producing adrenocortical adenomas may be associated with gene defects leading to activation of the cyclic AMP (cAMP) protein kinase A (PKA) pathway, such as somatic mutations in PRKACA, PRKAR1A , and PRKACB genes ( 36 , 37 ). Finally, somatic gene defects in the Wnt signaling pathway have also been identified in adrenocortical tumors ( 38 ). ACTH-independent CS due to PPNAD presents commonly in the context of CNC ( 39 ). CNC is an autosomal dominant multiple neoplasia syndrome caused by inactivating mutations of the gene PRKAR1A , coding for the
