Cushing Syndrome/Disease in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cushing, syndrome, patients, disease, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, pediatric, pituitary, article pubmed, cushing syndrome, stratakis


presents commonly in the context of CNC ( 39 ). CNC is an autosomal dominant multiple neoplasia syndrome caused by inactivating mutations of the gene PRKAR1A , coding for the regulatory subunit 1 alpha of PKA, or less often linked to a second locus at chromosome 2p16 ( 40 - 42 ). Inactivating mutations in PRKAR1A lead to constitutive activation of PKA and downstream pathways ( 18 ). Patients with CNC present with several manifestations including PPNAD, pituitary abnormalities most often presenting as growth hormone dysregulation or acromegaly, thyroid nodules or carcinomas, testicular tumors, cardiac and skin myxomas, characteristic skin lesions, breast myxomatosis or adenomas, osteo-chondro-myxomas and psammomatous melanotic schwannomas ( 40 ). PPNAD in CNC is often diagnosed in the third decade of life but patients as young as in the first decade of life have been reported ( 43 ). Additional information about CNC can be found in the chapter entitled “Carney Complex” of Endotext ( 40 ). Additional genetic defects associated with bilateral adrenocortical disease include PRKACA genomic gains, PDE11A , and PDE8A gene defects identified in patients with macronodular adrenocortical disease or isolated micronodular disease ( 44 - 46 ). PRKACA codes for the catalytic subunit of PKA, and chromosomal gains lead to increased PKA signaling ( 47 ). PDE11A and PDE8A codes for phosphor-diesterases that catalyze and decrease cAMP levels. Inactivating mutations in these genes lead to increased circulation of cAMP and increased PKA activity ( 44 , 48 ). Macronodular adrenocortical disease due to ARMC5 gene defects often seen in adults is rare in the pediatric population ( 49 ). Neonatal ACTH-independent CS may be seen in the context of McCune-Albright syndrome (MAS) ( 50 ). In these cases, CS presents within the first year of life and may have detrimental and rapidly developing symptoms which may even lead to death. However, if managed medically, neonatal CS in MAS may resolve on its own ( 51 ). Rare cases of neonatal onset adrenocortical disease have also been reported in the context of Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome ( 52 , 53 ). PRESENTATION The presentation of pediatric CS has similarities and differences from that in adults ( Table 2 ). Table 2. Presenting Findings in Pediatric Patients with Cushing Syndrome View in own window Clinical findings Anthropometric Height deceleration Weight gain Cardiovascular Hypertension Musculoskeletal Fractures Proximal muscle weakness Skin Striae Facial Plethora Easy bruising Acne Hirsutism Acanthosis
