Cushing Syndrome/Disease in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cushing, syndrome, patients, disease, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, pediatric, pituitary, article pubmed, cushing syndrome, stratakis


and females and/or irregular menses and secondary amenorrhea in females ( 8 ). As in patients with iatrogenic CS, pediatric patients with endogenous CS present with decreased bone mineral density, with lower scores in the spinal measurements ( 60 - 62 ). Proximal muscle weakness although reported is less frequent than adult patients ( 54 ). Pediatric patients with endogenous CS, especially younger in age, often present with behavioral and neurocognitive changes. They may report behavioral changes including compulsive behaviors with overachievement goals, described as excellent students, along with increased anxiety and irritability ( 63 ). They may also report mood changes, depressed mood, sleep problems, and memory issues similar to adults. Headaches are common in pediatric patients and can be noted in up to 80% of them ( 8 ). Hypercortisolemia and its related obesity lead to metabolic syndrome ( 64 ). Patients often present with insulin resistance and up to 30% of patients may have impaired glucose metabolism ( 56 ). Hyperlipidemia and elevated ALT as a surrogate marker of metabolic associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) are also present in almost half of the patients ( 8 , 56 ). Hypertension is present in almost 50% of patients with endogenous CS and cases of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) due to hypertensive emergency have been reported as the initial manifestation of CS in pediatric patients ( 8 , 65 ). Similar to adults, pediatric patients with CS present with a hypercoagulable state associated with abnormal levels of procoagulants, antifibrinolytics, and anticoagulant factors, such as factor VIII, antithrombin III, protein C and S, and prolonged partial thromboplastin time (PTT) ( 66 ). Although in adult patients with CS the risk of venous thromboembolism is more studied, the exact incidence, risk, and thromboprophylaxis protocols in children are not as well delineated and depend on clinical judgement ( 67 ). Additional findings in pediatric CS include characteristic abnormalities in CBC due to glucocorticoids effects including increased WBC count, neutrophil count, low normal lymphocyte count, and increased neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) ( 68 ). Although immunosuppression may lead to severe infections in patients with significantly elevated cortisol levels, in most pediatric cases infections are limited to less clinically significant areas such as skin infections etc. ( 69 ). However, in very young patients, especially in neonatal CS, or patients with severe hypercortisolemia, such as in ECS, opportunistic infections may lead to significant morbidity
