Cushing Syndrome/Disease in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cushing, syndrome, patients, disease, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, pediatric, pituitary, article pubmed, cushing syndrome, stratakis


infections etc. ( 69 ). However, in very young patients, especially in neonatal CS, or patients with severe hypercortisolemia, such as in ECS, opportunistic infections may lead to significant morbidity and even death and prophylaxis should be initiated ( 14 , 70 ). Electrolyte abnormalities seen in endogenous CS include hypokalemia, uncommon overall but seen more frequently in ECS, and hypercalciuria which may lead to nephrolithiasis ( 8 , 71 ). Patients with hypercortisolemia also present with other hormonal defects including abnormal thyroid function test with a pattern of central hypothyroidism, abnormal GH secretion with IGF-1 levels usually preserved within the reference range, and suppressed gonadotropins ( 72 - 75 ). Tumor stalk compression effects may lead to hyperprolactinemia, although this is uncommon due to the small size of most corticotropinomas. Androgen levels are commonly elevated in ACTH-dependent CS due to adrenal zona reticularis stimulation from ACTH, or in adrenocortical carcinomas where co-secretion of cortisol and DHEAS may be seen. DIAGNOSIS The diagnostic evaluation of pediatric CS follows the guidelines of the endocrine and pituitary society adjusted for the pediatric population ( 7 , 76 , 77 ). Screening for hypercortisolemia is preferably done with at least two of the following tests: 24-hour urinary free cortisol (UFC, measured on 2-3 days), midnight (or late night) cortisol measured on 2-3 days, and suppression of cortisol to low dose dexamethasone ( 76 ). Specific details on these tests can be found in the chapter entitled “Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis” of Endotext ( 78 ). Confirming the Diagnosis of Cushing Syndrome The loss of the diurnal rhythm of ACTH/cortisol secretion is the first abnormality noted in patients with CS ( 79 , 80 ). In clinical practice, salivary cortisol has been used to measure midnight or late night cortisol levels as it is convenient and can be collected at home ( 78 , 81 ). If this is not available, then serum midnight cortisol is an alternative accurate screening test ( 77 ). A serum cortisol level of ≥4.4mcg/dL was able to distinguish almost all pediatric patients with CS with a sensitivity of 99% and a specificity of 100% ( 7 ). Serum cortisol needs to be measured from an indwelling catheter that has been placed at least 2 hours prior to sampling. We instruct patients to turn off all screens by 10pm and blood should be collected without awakening
