Cushing Syndrome/Disease in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cushing, syndrome, patients, disease, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, pediatric, pituitary, article pubmed, cushing syndrome, stratakis


indwelling catheter that has been placed at least 2 hours prior to sampling. We instruct patients to turn off all screens by 10pm and blood should be collected without awakening the patient ( 82 ). The 24-hour urine collection should be performed on two or three days, to ensure optimal urine collection and account for the known day-to-day variability in urinary cortisol in patients with CS ( 83 , 84 ). It is generally recommended to collect urine on days of routine physical activities and avoid days when increased stressful activities are expected, like competitive sports games etc. ( 85 ). Additionally, patients are advised to consume normal amount of fluids as excessive fluid intake and urine output may lead to false positive results ( 86 ). The urine samples should be measured for urine creatinine to ensure normal kidney function, but we do not routinely correct UFC levels for the urine creatinine level as this may lead to inaccurate results ( 87 ). The low dose or 1mg overnight dexamethasone suppression test is performed similar to adults ( 78 ). Dose adjustment has been used in several studies, though no study has been done to specifically investigate the appropriate dose in children with CS. Various protocols recommend the use of 15mcg/kg, 25mcg/kg, or 0.3mg/m2 (max 1mg) once at 11pm for the overnight test or 1200mcg/kg/day (max 2mg/day) divided Q6 hours for two days ( 88 , 89 ). Measurement of a serum dexamethasone level at the same time as cortisol is important to ensure the desired dexamethasone level has been reached. If screening labs suggest cortisol excess, it is important to rule out physiologic/non-neoplastic hypercortisolism (previously known as pseudo-Cushing syndrome) ( 90 ). If suspicion is high, additional testing should be considered, including dexamethasone-CRH test (if available) or DDAVP stimulation test. If results remain inconsistent, close monitoring with repeat physical examination and labs within 3 months should be offered to monitor clinical and biochemical findings while at the same treating causes that may contribute to activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis ( 90 ). Identifying the Source of Hypercortisolemia Once endogenous CS is confirmed, the next step is to identify the source of hypercortisolemia. ACTH levels are used to guide next steps. Elevated ACTH levels of >20-29pg/mL suggest ACTH-dependent CS while suppressed ACTH is consistent with ACTH-independent CS ( 7 ). Intermediate values may need further evaluation for both ACTH-dependent
