Cushing Syndrome/Disease in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cushing, syndrome, patients, disease, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, pediatric, pituitary, article pubmed, cushing syndrome, stratakis


next steps. Elevated ACTH levels of >20-29pg/mL suggest ACTH-dependent CS while suppressed ACTH is consistent with ACTH-independent CS ( 7 ). Intermediate values may need further evaluation for both ACTH-dependent and ACTH-independent causes, but most often a non-suppressed ACTH level suggests ACTH-dependent CS, except in the case of mild subclinical hypercortisolemia or cyclical CS. In cases of ACTH-dependent CS, additional biochemical and imaging studies include pituitary MRI (with and without contrast, pituitary protocol), CRH stimulation test (if available), DDAVP stimulation test and/or high dose dexamethasone suppression test. Corticotroph PitNETs are often shown as hypo-enhancing microadenomas in pituitary MRI ( Figure 2 ), but a normal/negative MRI may be seen in up to 30% of patients ( 91 ). In cases of normal MRI or biochemical testing inconsistent with pituitary source, bilateral inferior petrosal sinus sampling (BIPSS) is the gold standard in diagnosing or ruling out CD. Non-invasive strategies are described if BIPSS is not feasible and/or not available ( 92 ). In our pediatric patients, all patients who showed suppression to high dose dexamethasone administration and stimulation to CRH/DDAVP consistent with a pituitary source, had CD irrespective of imaging findings ( 8 ). For patients suspected to have ECS, further evaluation should include imaging of the neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvis with thin cuts as carcinoids can be small in diameter. Chest imaging is preferably done with CT due to higher accuracy in the lung parenchyma, but some centers use MRI for abdominal/pelvic imaging to reduce radiation. Nuclear imaging, preferably with Ga-68 DOTATATE or, if not available or negative, with 18F-FDG PET, may identify some of these ectopic sources ( 11 , 13 , 93 ). If a lesion found on imaging studies is suspicious but not convincing, one may attempt venous sampling close to the possible lesion for measurement of CRH and/or ACTH and compare the levels to a peripheral source ( 11 ). If a gradient is reported then this may further support the diagnosis of ectopic tumor ( 11 ). Other markers of potential interest in these cases include chromogranin A and CRH, which may be helpful in the follow-up of patients. Patients with ECS may present with pituitary hyperplasia if CRH is co-secreted, which should be considered when interpreting the imaging and biochemical results. When ACTH-independent CS is suspected, imaging of the adrenals is the best next step. Imaging can be preferably with CT since it
