Cushing Syndrome/Disease in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cushing, syndrome, patients, disease, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, pediatric, pituitary, article pubmed, cushing syndrome, stratakis


considered when interpreting the imaging and biochemical results. When ACTH-independent CS is suspected, imaging of the adrenals is the best next step. Imaging can be preferably with CT since it has good accuracy for lesions <1cm and less artifacts due to motion, but MRI may be an alternative to avoid radiation exposure. Ultrasound however is not accurate in identifying adrenal lesions other than large adrenocortical tumors ( 14 ). In ACTH-independent CS, it is important to review the anatomy of both adrenals; noting a unilateral lesion with atrophy of the contralateral adrenal supports the diagnosis of unilateral disease, whereas bilateral symmetrical adrenal enlargement or bilateral normal appearing adrenals suggests bilateral disease ( Figure 2 ). In case of bilateral micronodular adrenocortical disease, adrenal anatomy is often read as normal or sometimes asymmetric appearance of the contour of the adrenals described as “beads on a string” may be apparent ( 94 ). When bilateral adrenocortical disease is suspected, confirmation of the diagnosis prior to proceeding with surgical intervention involves the performance of Liddle’s test ( 95 ). The paradoxical increase of urinary free cortisol or 17-hydroxy steroids with increasing doses of dexamethasone is pathognomonic for PPNAD ( 95 ). Figure 2. Typical imaging findings in a patient with Cushing disease (A-B), a cortisol-producing adrenal adenoma (C) and bilateral micronodular adrenocortical disease (E). Postcontrast sagittal (A) and coronal (B) MRI images of the pituitary showing a microadenoma (tip of arrows) as hypoechoic lesion. (C) Axial adrenal CT of a patient with a left adrenal adenoma (yellow asterisk) and atrophic contralateral adrenal (blue outline). (E) Axial adrenal CT of a patient with bilateral micronodular adrenocortical disease showing normal appearing adrenals (blue outline) with bilaterally symmetric thickness of the limbs of the adrenals. TREATMENT Surgical intervention is the first line of treatment in all types of CS whenever the source is identified. In patients with CD, transsphenoidal resection of the pituitary tumor is the preferred approach. Endoscopic or microscopic approaches have been attempted. A recent meta-analysis has not showed significant differences in the remission rate between the two approaches overall, but endoscopic approach may be preferrable in macroadenomas ( 96 , 97 ). In very young patients, pneumatization of the sphenoid sinus may be incomplete and the surgical approach more be more difficult but transsphenoidal access is still possible ( 98 ). In rare cases of very young children with pituitary lesions or in
