Cushing Syndrome/Disease in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cushing, syndrome, patients, disease, free, free article, article, pmc, pmc free, pediatric, pituitary, article pubmed, cushing syndrome, stratakis


incomplete and the surgical approach more be more difficult but transsphenoidal access is still possible ( 98 ). In rare cases of very young children with pituitary lesions or in giant complex pituitary tumors, the transcranial approach may be considered ( 99 ). Remission is defined as postoperative nadir cortisol levels of <2-5mcg/dl and early postoperative hypocortisolemia is a sensitive marker of durable remission ( 76 , 100 ). In cases of non-remission patients may be managed with immediate reoperation and partial hypophysectomy ( 101 ). In the pediatric cohorts the remission rate after surgery ranges from 62 to 98% depending on the cohort and the criteria used ( 8 , 102 - 104 ). In cases of ACTH-independent CS, bilateral or unilateral adrenalectomy is recommended depending on the underlying cause ( 105 ). Although unilateral adrenalectomy has been suggested in cases of bilateral macronodular adrenocortical disease, data on unilateral adrenalectomy in micronodular adrenocortical disease are not clear ( 105 ). ECS should primarily be managed with surgical resection. In cases of persistent CD after surgery, medical therapy or radiation should be considered. At this time, no medical therapy for CS in the pediatric population has been approved by the FDA in the US and all treatments are considered as off-label use, but ketoconazole is approved by the European Medical Association for children >12 years of age. Medical therapies are divided in those directed to adrenal steroidogenesis, to pituitary tumor function, or to peripheral glucocorticoid action. Most commonly, steroidogenesis inhibitors are considered first line as they are more potent and faster acting. Of these, ketoconazole, metyrapone, osilodrostat, levo-ketoconazole and others have been used ( 106 ). Radiation therapy could be considered as an alternative second-line treatment but requires medical management and close monitoring until the radiation effect is apparent ( 107 , 108 ). Finally, bilateral adrenalectomy is reserved for cases of severe CS persistent despite surgical or medical intervention. This is followed by lifelong adrenal insufficiency and patients should be monitored for the risk of Nelson syndrome ( 109 ). POSTOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT After successful surgical management, patients experience adrenal insufficiency. In CD the median duration of adrenal insufficiency is almost 12 months ( 110 ). Additionally, management of patients after remission of CS should also target symptoms of glucocorticoid withdrawal which may require supraphysiologic doses of glucocorticoids for a period of time and slow tapering to physiologic levels (
