Paediatric electrocardiography
KEYWORDS: right, age, waves, ventricular, heart, normal, wave, leads, electrocardiogram, hypertrophy, left, children, paediatric, atrial, block


General clinicians and junior paediatricians may have little experience of interpreting paediatric electrocardiograms. Although the basic principles of cardiac conduction and depolarisation are the same as for adults, age related changes in the anatomy and physiology of infants and children produce normal ranges for electrocardiographic features that differ from adults and vary with age. Awareness of these differences is the key to correct interpretation of paediatric electrocardiograms. Successful use of paediatric electrocardiography Be aware of age related differences in the indications for performing electrocardiography, the normal ranges for electrocardiographic variables, and the typical abnormalities in infants and children Genuine abnormality is unusual; if abnormality is suspected, seek a specialist opinion Indications for paediatric electrocardiography • Syncope or seizure • Electrolyte disturbance • Exertional symptoms • Kawasaki disease • Drug ingestion • Rheumatic fever • Tachyarrhythmia • Myocarditis • Bradyarrhythmia • Myocardial contusion • Cyanotic episodes • Pericarditis • Heart failure • Post cardiac surgery • Hypothermia • Congenital heart defects Recording the electrocardiogram To obtain a satisfactory recording in young children requires patience, and the parents may be helpful in providing a source of distraction. Limb electrodes may be placed in a more proximal position to reduce movement artefacts. Standard adult electrode positions are used but with the addition of either lead V3R or lead V4R to detect right ventricular or atrial hypertrophy. Standard paper speed (25 mm/s) and deflection (10 mm/mV) are used, although occasionally large QRS complexes may require the gain to be halved. Paediatric electrocardiographic findings that may be normal Heart rate >100 beats/min QRS axis >90° Right precordial T wave inversion Dominant right precordial R waves Short PR and QT intervals Short P wave and short duration of QRS complexes Inferior and lateral Q waves Indications for electrocardiography Chest pain in children is rarely cardiac in origin and is often associated with tenderness in the chest wall. Electrocardiography is not usually helpful in making a diagnosis, although a normal trace can be very reassuring to the family. Typical indications for paediatric electrocardiography include syncope, exertional symptoms, tachyarrhythmias, bradyarrhythmias, and drug ingestion. Use of electrocardiography to evaluate congenital heart defects is a specialist interest and will not be discussed here. Age related changes in normal electrocardiograms Features that would be diagnosed as abnormal in an adult's electrocardiogram may be normal, age related changes in a paediatric trace. The explanation for why this is so lies in how
