Paediatric electrocardiography
KEYWORDS: right, age, waves, ventricular, heart, normal, wave, leads, electrocardiogram, hypertrophy, left, children, paediatric, atrial, block


(usually right 6/18 bundle) often occurs after cardiac surgery, and a previous electrocardiogram can be helpful. Monomorphic ventricular tachycardia may occur secondary to surgery for congenital heart disease. Polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, or torsades de pointes, is associated with the long QT syndrome. Complete atrioventricular block Complete atrioventricular block may be congenital or secondary to surgery An association exists between congenital complete atrioventricular block and maternal anti-La and anti-Ro antibodies, which are believed to cross the placenta and damage conduction tissue Classification of atrioventricular block into first, second, and third degree follows the same principles as for adults, although a diagnosis of first degree heart block should take into account the variation of the PR interval with age. First degree heart block and the Wenckebach phenomenon may be a normal finding in otherwise healthy children. First or second degree block, however, can occur with rheumatic carditis, diphtheria, digoxin overdose, and congenital heart defects. Electrocardiogram from 12 year old (late childhood) (axis is now within normal “adult” range and R wave is no longer dominant in right precordial leads) Figure. Open in a new tab Electrocardiogram from 3 year old with restrictive cardiomyopathy and severe right and left atrial enlargement. Tall (>2.5 mm), wide P waves are clearly seen in lead II, and P wave in V1 is markedly biphasic Electrocardiogram from 13 year old boy with transposition of great arteries and previous Mustard's procedure. The right ventricle is the systemic ventricle and the trace shows right ventricular hypertrophy with marked right axis deviation and a dominant R wave in the right precordial leads Electrocardiogram from 11 year old girl with left ventricular hypertrophy secondary to systemic hypertension. There are tall voltages in the left precordial and limb leads with secondary ST depression and T wave inversion Electrocardiogram from 6 year old girl with congenital heart block secondary to maternal antiphospholipid antibodies; there is complete atrioventricular dissociation, and the ventricular escape rate is about 50 beats/min
