Acute myocardial infarction—Part II - PMC
KEYWORDS: segment, acute, elevation, segment elevation, branch, bundle branch, bundle, block, infarction, branch block, left, leads, myocardial, myocardial infarction, ventricular


This article describes the association of bundle branch block with acute myocardial infarction and the differential diagnosis of ST segment elevation. Bundle branch block Acute myocardial infarction in the presence of bundle branch block carries a much worse prognosis than acute myocardial infarction with normal ventricular conduction. This is true both for patients whose bundle branch block precedes the infarction and for those in whom bundle branch block develops as a result of the acute event. Thrombolytic treatment produces dramatic reductions in mortality in these patients, and the greatest benefits are seen in those treated early. It is therefore essential that the electrocardiographic identification of acute myocardial infarction in patients with bundle branch block is both timely and accurate. Left bundle branch block Left bundle branch block is most commonly seen in patients with coronary artery disease, hypertension, or dilated cardiomyopathy. The left bundle branch usually receives blood from the left anterior descending branch of the left coronary artery and from the right coronary artery. When new 1/15 left bundle branch block occurs in the context of an acute myocardial infarction the infarct is usually anterior and mortality is extremely high. The electrocardiographic changes of acute myocardial infarction can be difficult to recognise when left bundle branch block is present, and many of the conventional diagnostic criteria are not applicable. Abnormal ventricular depolarisation in left bundle branch block leads to secondary alteration in the recovery process (see earlier article about bradycardias and atrioventricular conduction block). This appears on the electrocardiogram as repolarisation changes in a direction opposite to that of the main QRS deflection—that is, “appropriate discordance” between the QRS complex and the ST segment. Thus leads with a predominantly negative QRS complex show ST segment elevation with positive T waves (an appearance similar to that of acute anterior myocardial infarction). Recognition of acute ischaemia Many different electrocardiographic criteria have been proposed for identifying acute infarction in left bundle branch block, but none has yet proved sufficiently sensitive to be useful in the acute setting. However, some features are specific indicators of acute ischaemia. ST segment elevation in association with a positive QRS complex, or ST segment depression in leads V1, V2, or V3 (which have predominantly negative QRS complexes), is not expected in uncomplicated left bundle branch block and is termed “inappropriate concordance.” Inappropriate concordance strongly indicates acute ischaemia. Extreme ST segment elevation (⩾5 mm) in leads V1 and
