Acute myocardial infarction—Part II - PMC
KEYWORDS: segment, acute, elevation, segment elevation, branch, bundle branch, bundle, block, infarction, branch block, left, leads, myocardial, myocardial infarction, ventricular


is not expected in uncomplicated left bundle branch block and is termed “inappropriate concordance.” Inappropriate concordance strongly indicates acute ischaemia. Extreme ST segment elevation (⩾5 mm) in leads V1 and V2 also suggests acute ischaemia. If doubt persists, serial electrocardiograms may show evolving changes. Right bundle branch block Right bundle branch block is most commonly seen in association with coronary artery disease, but in many cases no organic heart disease is present. Uncomplicated right bundle branch block usually causes little ST segment displacement and neither causes nor masks Q waves. Thus it does not generally interfere with the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction, though it may mask a posterior myocardial infarction. 2/15 The Brugada syndrome, which is familial, occurs particularly in young men and is characterised by right bundle branch block and ST segment elevation in the right precordial leads. There is a high incidence of death as a result of ventricular tachyarrhythmias Differential diagnosis of ST segment elevation ST segment elevation has numerous possible causes. It may be a variant of normal or be due to cardiac or non-cardiac disease. A correct diagnosis has obvious advantages for the patient but is also particularly important before the use of thrombolytic treatment so that unnecessary exposure to the risks of thrombolytic drugs can be avoided. Causes of ST segment elevation Acute myocardial infarction “High take-off” Benign early repolarisation Left bundle branch block Left ventricular hypertrophy Ventricular aneurysm Coronary vasospasm/Printzmetal's angina Pericarditis Brugada syndrome Subarachnoid haemorrhage The interpretation of ST segment elevation should always be made in the light of the clinical history and examination findings. There are often clues in the electrocardiogram to differentiate the ST segment elevation of acute ischaemia from other causes; for example, reciprocal changes (see last week's article) may be present, which strongly indicate acute ischaemia. Serial electrocardiography or continuous ST segment monitoring is also useful as ischaemic ST segment elevation evolves over time. Old electrocardiograms are also useful for comparison. “High take-off” 3/15 Care is required when interpreting ST segment elevation in right sided chest leads as the ST segments, particularly in leads V2 and V3, tend to be upsloping rather than flat. Isolated ST segment elevation in these leads should be interpreted with caution. (For more information on “high take-off” see the second article in this series.) Benign early repolarisation A degree of ST segment elevation is often present in healthy individuals, especially in young
