Acute myocardial infarction—Part II - PMC
KEYWORDS: segment, acute, elevation, segment elevation, branch, bundle branch, bundle, block, infarction, branch block, left, leads, myocardial, myocardial infarction, ventricular


more information on “high take-off” see the second article in this series.) Benign early repolarisation A degree of ST segment elevation is often present in healthy individuals, especially in young adults and in people of African descent. This ST segment elevation is most commonly seen in the precordial leads and is often most marked in lead V4. It is usually subtle but can sometimes be pronounced and can easily be mistaken for pathological ST segment elevation. Benign early repolarisation can be recognised by its characteristic electrocardiographic features: elevation of the J point above the isoelectric line, with high take-off of the ST segment; a distinct notch at the junction of the R wave and S wave, the J point; an upward concavity of the ST segment; and symmetrical, upright T waves, often of large amplitude. Antecedent myocardial infarction The ST segment elevation associated with acute infarction usually resolves within two weeks of the acute event, but it may persist indefinitely, especially when associated with anterior myocardial infarction. In these patients a diagnosis of left ventricular aneurysm should be considered. Care should be taken when interpreting the electrocardiogram within two weeks of an acute event, and comparison with old electrocardiograms may be useful. Acute pericarditis Acute pericarditis is commonly mistaken for acute myocardial infarction as both cause chest pain and ST segment elevation. In pericarditis, however, the ST segment elevation is diffuse rather than localised, often being present in all leads except aVR and V1. The elevated ST segments are concave upwards, rather than convex upwards as seen in acute infarction. Depression of the PR segment may also be seen. ST segment elevation in pericarditis is thought to be due to the associated subepicardial myocarditis. The zone of injured tissue causes abnormal ST vectors; the end result is that leads facing the epicardial surface record ST segment elevation, whereas those facing the ventricular cavity (leads aVR and V1) record ST segment depression. The absence of widespread reciprocal change, the 4/15 presence of PR segment depression, and absence of Q waves may be helpful in distinguishing pericarditis from acute myocardial infarction. Other causes of ST segment elevation The characteristic features of left ventricular hypertrophy are also often misinterpreted as being caused by acute ischaemia. ST segment elevation in the precordial leads is a feature of left ventricular hypertrophy and is due to secondary repolarisation abnormalities. ST segment abnormalities are seen in association
