Craniopharyngiomas
KEYWORDS: craniopharyngioma, pubmed, craniopharyngiomas, patients, journal, hypothalamic, tumor, surgery, children, treatment, cystic, papillary, cases, clinical, free


ABSTRACT Craniopharyngiomas are rare intracranial tumors that mainly arise in the sellar/parasellar (particularly suprasellar) region. They present in both children and adults with a wide range of clinical manifestations. Histologically, they are benign tumors with distinct adamantinomatous and papillary subtypes. Beta-catenin gene mutations have been identified in the adamantinomatous subtype and activating mutations in BRAF (V600E) in the papillary variant, opening further avenues in our understanding of their pathogenesis. Despite their benign classification, management is challenging due to unpredictable growth and the involvement of adjacent critical structures particularly for vision and hypothalamo-pituitary function. Surgery with or without external irradiation currently represents the mainstay of therapy for most patients; however, the optimal protocol for the management of these tumors has not yet been established. Further management options include intracystic irradiation or bleomycin, stereotactic radiosurgery, systemic chemotherapy, or targeted BRAF inhibitors (for the papillary subtype); however, the outcomes of these approaches have not yet been validated with large scale clinical trials. Following treatment, patients face a high burden of morbidity due to visual, endocrine, hypothalamic, and neuropsychological dysfunction, and long-term mortality rates are substantially elevated compared with the general population. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . EPIDEMIOLOGY Craniopharyngiomas account for 2–5% of all primary intracranial neoplasms and for up to 15% of intracranial tumors in children ( 1 ). Their annual incidence is reported as around 0.18 cases per 100,000 people ( 2 ), and genetic susceptibility seems unlikely. Craniopharyngiomas may be detected at any age, even in the prenatal and neonatal periods ( 3 ) and a bimodal age distribution with peak incidence rates at ages 5–14 and 50–74 years has been proposed ( 2 , 4 ). In population-based studies from the USA and Finland, no gender differences have been found ( 4 , 5 ). PATHOLOGY AND PATHOGENESIS Craniopharyngiomas are epithelial tumors arising along the path of the craniopharyngeal duct (the canal connecting the stomodeal ectoderm with the evaginated Rathke’s pouch). Based on the WHO classification, they are assigned grade I. Rare cases of malignant transformation (possibly triggered by previous irradiation) have been described ( 1 ). Two main pathological subtypes have been reported: the adamantinomatous variant and the papillary variant ( 1 , 6 ). The adamantinomatous variant is the most common subtype and may occur at any age (Figure 1). Macroscopically, adamantinomatous craniopharyngiomas have cystic and/or
