Craniopharyngiomas
KEYWORDS: craniopharyngioma, pubmed, craniopharyngiomas, patients, journal, hypothalamic, tumor, surgery, children, treatment, cystic, papillary, cases, clinical, free


the papillary variant ( 1 , 6 ). The adamantinomatous variant is the most common subtype and may occur at any age (Figure 1). Macroscopically, adamantinomatous craniopharyngiomas have cystic and/or solid components, necrotic debris, fibrous tissue and calcification. The cysts may be multiloculated and contain liquid ranging from “machinery oil” to shimmering cholesterol-laden fluid consisting of desquamated squamous epithelial cells, rich in membrane lipids and cytoskeleton keratin. They tend to have sharp and irregular margins, often merging into a peripheral zone of dense reactive gliosis, with abundant Rosenthal fiber formation (consisting of irregular masses of granular deposits within astrocytic processes) in the surrounding brain tissue and vascular structures. The epithelium of the adamantinomatous type is composed of three layers of cells: a distinct palisaded basal layer of small cells with darkly staining nuclei and little cytoplasm (somewhat resembling the basal cells of the epidermis of the skin); an intermediate layer of variable thickness composed of loose aggregates of stellate cells (termed stellate reticulum), with processes traversing empty intercellular spaces; and a top layer facing into the cyst lumen with abruptly enlarged, flattened and keratinized to flat plate-like squamous cells. The flat squames are desquamated singly or in distinctive stacked clusters and form nodules of “wet” keratin, which are often heavily calcified and appear grossly as white flecks. The keratinous debris may elicit an inflammatory and foreign body giant cell reaction. The presence of the typical adamantinomatous epithelium or of the “wet” keratin alone are diagnostic, whereas features only suggestive of the diagnosis in small or non-representative specimens include fibrohistiocytic reaction, necrotic debris, calcification and cholesterol clefts ( 1 ). Figure 1A. Histology of adamantinomatous craniopharyngioma. Islands of tumor with finger-like protrusions into surrounding brain tissue with central accumulation of keratin nodules; HE x40 magnification. Figure 1B. Histology of adamantinomatous craniopharyngioma. Well-differentiated epithelium with peripheral palisading, nodular whorls, and pale, microcystic areas termed ‘stellate reticulum’, as well as pale eosinophilic ‘wet keratin’ nodule (right bottom); HE x200 magnification. Figure 1C. Histology of adamantinomatous craniopharyngioma. Beta-catenin immunohistochemistry of area shown in A, highlighting dark staining nodular whorls; x40 magnification Figure 1D. Histology of adamantinomatous craniopharyngioma. Basal epithelium demonstrating the aberrant nuclear accumulation of beta-catenin in nodular whorls (arrowheads) due to beta-catenin mutation; Anti-beta-catenin, x400 magnification. The papillary variant has been almost exclusively described in adult populations (accounting for 14-50% of adult cases but only around 2% of pediatric cases) (Figure 2). It
