Craniopharyngiomas
KEYWORDS: craniopharyngioma, pubmed, craniopharyngiomas, patients, journal, hypothalamic, tumor, surgery, children, treatment, cystic, papillary, cases, clinical, free


Anti-beta-catenin, x400 magnification. The papillary variant has been almost exclusively described in adult populations (accounting for 14-50% of adult cases but only around 2% of pediatric cases) (Figure 2). It consists of mature squamous epithelium forming pseudopapillae and of an anastomosing fibrovascular stroma without the presence of peripheral palisading of cells or stellate reticulin, and with membranous beta-catenin immunoreactivity only. The differential diagnosis between a papillary craniopharyngioma and a Rathke’s cleft cyst may be difficult, particularly in small biopsy specimens, as the epithelial lining of the Rathke’s cysts may undergo squamous differentiation; however, the lack of a solid component and the presence of extensive ciliation and/or mucin production are suggestive of Rathke’s ( 1 , 6 ). Figure 2A. Histology of papillary craniopharyngioma. Papillae lined by non-keratinizing squamous epithelium and containing loosely structured connective tissue; HE x20 magnification. Figure 2B. Histology of papillary craniopharyngioma. Connective tissue harbors a patchy lymphocytic infiltrate (asterix); HE x100 magnification. Figure 2C. Histology of papillary craniopharyngioma. Non-keratinizing squamous epithelium highlighted by beta-catenin immunostain, x20 magnification. Figure 2D. Histology of papillary craniopharyngioma. Squamous epithelium showing membranous immunoreactivity of beta-catenin, lacking clusters with aberrant nuclear accumulation, x400 magnification. Although the pathogenesis of craniopharyngiomas has not been fully elucidated, our understanding in this field has increased significantly in recent years. Beta-catenin gene ( CTNNB1 ) mutations have been identified in the adamantinomatous subtype affecting exon 3 which encodes the degradation targeting box of beta-catenin; the mutant form is resistant to degradation leading to accumulation of nuclear beta-catenin protein (a transcriptional activator of the Wnt signaling pathway) ( Figure 1D ). Furthermore, strong beta-catenin expression has been shown in the adamantinomatous subtype indicating re-activation of the Wnt signaling pathway and subsequent de-regulation of several downstream pathways ( 7 - 10 ). Molecular analysis also implicates the immune response in the pathogenesis of adamantinomatous craniopharyngiomas. Cells within this subtype show signs of inflammation (in both cystic and solid components), and increased levels of cytokines including Interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-8 and IL-10 have been identified( 10 - 12 ). Furthermore, the expression of immune related genes is increased, and the immune check point proteins Programmed Death Ligand 1 (PD-L1), and Programmed Cell Death Protein 1 (PD-1) are expressed in both subtypes of craniopharyngioma( 10 , 13 ). For papillary craniopharyngiomas specifically, a number of studies using whole exome sequencing, next-generation panel sequencing, pyrosequencing and Sanger sequencing have shown the presence of activating
