Craniopharyngiomas
KEYWORDS: craniopharyngioma, pubmed, craniopharyngiomas, patients, journal, hypothalamic, tumor, surgery, children, treatment, cystic, papillary, cases, clinical, free


craniopharyngioma( 10 , 13 ). For papillary craniopharyngiomas specifically, a number of studies using whole exome sequencing, next-generation panel sequencing, pyrosequencing and Sanger sequencing have shown the presence of activating mutations in the BRAF (V600E) gene; the prevalence of which varies according to the sequencing method, generally being between 81 and 100% ( 8 ). BRAF mutations can lead to activation of the MAPK/ERK (Mitogen Activated Protein Kinase / Extracellular signal Regulated Kinases) pathway, which ultimately results to increased cell growth, proliferation, and cell survival( 10 ). Whilst BRAF mutations are found in numerous cells within papillary craniopharyngiomas, only a small cluster of progenitor cells expressing the SOX2/SOX9 (Sex Region Y Box 2 and 9) transcription factors are believed to be involved in their tumorigenesis( 14 ). It has also been suggested that the two pathological subtypes have different epigenomic and transcriptomic signatures, and that the cell clusters in the adamantinomatous subtype may have a functional role in the promotion of tumor invasion ( 8 ). DIAGNOSIS Location/Imaging Most craniopharyngiomas are located in the sellar/parasellar region and the majority (94-95%) have a suprasellar component. Other rare locations include the nasopharynx, the paranasal area, the sphenoid bone, the ethmoid sinus, the intrachiasmatic area, the temporal lobe, the pineal gland, the posterior cranial fossa, the cerebellopontine angle, the midportion of the midbrain or, mainly relating to the papillary variant, within the 3rd ventricle( 1 ). Plain skull X-rays, although seldom used nowadays, may show calcification and an abnormal sella. CT is helpful for evaluation of the bony anatomy, the identification of calcification and the discrimination of the solid and cystic components. They are usually of mixed attenuation; the cyst fluid has low density and the contrast medium enhances any solid portion, including the cyst capsule ( 1 ). MRI is particularly useful for the topographic and structural analysis of the tumor. The radiological appearance depends on the proportion of the solid and cystic components, the content of the cyst(s) (cholesterol, keratin, hemorrhage), and the amount of calcification present. A solid lesion appears as iso- or hypointense relative to the brain. On pre-contrast T1-weighted images, it shows enhancement following gadolinium administration, and is usually of mixed hypo- or hyperintensity on T2-weighted images. Large amounts of calcification may be visualized as areas of low signal on both T1- and T2-weighted images. A cystic element is usually hypointense on T1- and hyperintense on T2-weighted sequences,
