Craniopharyngiomas
KEYWORDS: craniopharyngioma, pubmed, craniopharyngiomas, patients, journal, hypothalamic, tumor, surgery, children, treatment, cystic, papillary, cases, clinical, free


amounts of calcification may be visualized as areas of low signal on both T1- and T2-weighted images. A cystic element is usually hypointense on T1- and hyperintense on T2-weighted sequences, and a thin peripheral contrast-enhancing rim of the cyst can be shown on T1-weighted images. Protein, cholesterol, and methemoglobin may cause high signal on T1-weighted images, while very concentrated protein and various blood products may be associated with low T2-weighted signal ( 1 ). Imaging examples from cystic, solid, and mixed solid-cystic craniopharyngiomas are shown in Figure 3. Figure 3A. MRI images of craniopharyngiomas. Coronal section showing cystic craniopharyngioma on post-contrast T1-weighted MRI. The cyst contents are isointense and the cyst rim enhances following contrast. Figure 3B. MRI images of craniopharyngiomas. Sagittal section of 3A. Figure 3C. MRI images of craniopharyngiomas. Sagittal section showing a solid craniopharyngioma on T1-weighted imaging which enhances after contrast. Figure 3D. MRI images of craniopharyngiomas. Coronal section showing a solid craniopharyngioma on T1-weighted imaging which enhances after contrast. Figure 3E. MRI images of craniopharyngiomas. Sagittal section showing a craniopharyngioma with mixed solid and cystic components on post-contrast T1-weighted imaging. Figure 3F. MRI images of craniopharyngiomas. Coronal section showing a mixed solid and cystic craniopharyngioma with mixed signal intensities on T2-weighted imaging. The consistency of craniopharyngiomas can be purely or predominantly cystic, purely or predominantly solid, and mixed. When present, the calcification patterns vary from solid lumps to popcorn-like foci or, less commonly, to an eggshell pattern lining the cyst wall. Hydrocephalus has been reported in 20-38% and is probably more frequent in childhood-diagnosed disease (41-54%). The differential diagnosis includes a number of sellar or parasellar lesions, including Rathke’s cleft cyst, dermoid cyst, epidermoid cyst, pituitary adenoma, germinoma, hamartoma, suprasellar aneurysm, arachnoid cyst, suprasellar abscess, glioma, meningioma, sarcoidosis, tuberculosis and Langerhans cell histiocytosis. Differentiation from a Rathke’s cleft cyst (typically small, round, purely cystic lesions lacking calcification), or from a pituitary adenoma (in the rare case of a homogeneously enhancing solid craniopharyngioma), may be particularly difficult ( 1 , 15 ). Clinical and Hormonal Manifestations at Presentation Patients with craniopharyngioma may present with a variety of clinical manifestations attributed to pressure effects on vital structures of the brain (visual pathways, brain parenchyma, ventricular system, major blood vessels and hypothalamo-pituitary system) ( 15 - 17 ). Their severity depends on the location, size, and growth potential of the tumor. The duration of the symptoms until diagnosis ranges
