Craniopharyngiomas
KEYWORDS: craniopharyngioma, pubmed, craniopharyngiomas, patients, journal, hypothalamic, tumor, surgery, children, treatment, cystic, papillary, cases, clinical, free


5% Unsteadiness/ataxia 7% 3% 4% Hemiparesis 7% 1% 3% Blindness 3% 3% 3% Meningitis 0% 3% 2% MANAGEMENT Surgery Combined or Not with External Irradiation Surgery combined or not with adjuvant external beam irradiation is currently one of the most widely used first therapeutic approaches for craniopharyngiomas. These tumors pose challenges mainly due to their sharp, irregular borders and to their tendency to adhere to vital neurovascular structures, making surgical manipulation potentially hazardous to vital brain areas. When large cystic components are present, fluid aspiration provides relief of the obstructive manifestations and facilitates the consecutive removal of the solid portion, which should not be delayed for more than a few weeks due to the significant risk of cyst refilling ( 15 , 19 ). The attempted extent of excision has been a subject of significant debate and depends on the size (achieved in 0% of lesions >4 cm) and location of the tumor, the presence of hydrocephalus (particularly difficult for retrochiasmatic or within the 3 rd ventricle), >10% calcification, tumor adherence to the hypothalamus, brain invasion, as well as the experience, individual judgment during the operation, and general treatment policy (aggressive or not) adopted by each neurosurgeon ( 1 , 20 - 22 ). In recent years, many tertiary centers have adopted a more conservative surgical approach, electing for partial or limited resection with radiotherapy over complete resection, when possible, with aim of hypothalamic sparing and reducing subsequent morbidity ( 23 ). In microsurgical series, post-operative mortality ranges between 0 and 5.4% ( 24 ), while in a meta- analysis including 2,955 patients early mortality of 2.6% after transsphenoidal and 3.1% after transcranial surgery were reported ( 25 ). Interestingly, until 1937, when Carpenter et al . ( 26 ) first described the beneficial effects of radiotherapy following aspiration of cyst contents in 4 cases, craniopharyngiomas were considered radioresistant. Historically, the role of irradiation started being established almost two decades later, following the report of the favorable outcome of the combination of minimal surgery and high-dose supervoltage irradiation in a series of 10 patients by Kramer et al. ( 27 ). The irradiation of cystic craniopharyngiomas carries the risk of cyst enlargement, arising during or within 6 months after radiotherapy, reported in 10-60% of patients ( 28 - 31 ). Whilst urgent surgical decompression may be needed in some cases, enlargement is transient, and does not represent tumor recurrence (
