Craniopharyngiomas
KEYWORDS: craniopharyngioma, pubmed, craniopharyngiomas, patients, journal, hypothalamic, tumor, surgery, children, treatment, cystic, papillary, cases, clinical, free


reported in 10-60% of patients ( 28 - 31 ). Whilst urgent surgical decompression may be needed in some cases, enlargement is transient, and does not represent tumor recurrence ( 15 , 30 , 32 ). Recurrence Following Surgery Recurrent tumors may arise even from small islets of craniopharyngioma cells in the gliotic brain adjacent to the tumor, which can remain even after gross total removal. The mean interval for diagnosis of recurrence following various primary treatment modalities ranges between 1 and 4.3 years. Remote recurrences as late as 30 years after initial therapy have been reported; possible mechanisms include transplantation during the surgical procedures and dissemination by meningeal seeding or CSF spreading ( 1 ). Series with radiological confirmation of the radicality of resection show that recurrence rates following gross total removal range between 0 and 62% at 10 years follow-up. These are significantly lower than those reported after partial or subtotal resection (25-100% at 10 years follow-up). In cases of limited surgery, adjuvant radiotherapy significantly improves the local control rates (recurrence rates 10-63% at 10 years follow-up). Finally, radiotherapy alone provides 10 years recurrence rates ranging between 0 and 23% ( 1 ). These results were based on the use of conventional fractionated external beam radiotherapy; tumor control rates with newer higher precision techniques, such as fractionated stereotactic conformal radiotherapy, have remained optimal with 5-year progression free survival exceeding 90% ( 33 , 34 ). Tumor control rates achieved by proton beam therapy in patients with craniopharyngioma are promising ( 35 ), but studies with long-term follow-up are needed. Studies with statistical comparisons of the local control rates achieved by gross total removal or the combination of surgery and radiotherapy have not provided consistent results. The interpretation of data regarding effectiveness of each therapeutic modality must be done with caution, since the published studies are retrospective, non-randomized and often specialty-biased. The growth rate of craniopharyngiomas varies considerably and reliable clinical, radiological, and pathological criteria predicting their behavior are lacking. Thus, apart from significant impact of the treatment modality as mentioned above, attempts to identify other prognostic factors for recurrence (age, group at diagnosis, sex, imaging features, pathological subtypes) have not provided consistent results ( 1 ). The management of recurrent tumors remains challenging, as scarring/adhesions from previous operations or irradiation make successful removal difficult. In such cases, total removal is achieved in a substantially lower rate when compared
