Craniopharyngiomas
KEYWORDS: craniopharyngioma, pubmed, craniopharyngiomas, patients, journal, hypothalamic, tumor, surgery, children, treatment, cystic, papillary, cases, clinical, free


of recurrent tumors remains challenging, as scarring/adhesions from previous operations or irradiation make successful removal difficult. In such cases, total removal is achieved in a substantially lower rate when compared with primary surgery (0-25%). Perioperative mortality is increased following recurrence, occurring in as many as 11-24% ( 22 ). The beneficial effect of radiotherapy (proceeded or not by second surgery) in recurrent lesions has been clearly shown( 15 , 36 ). Recurrent lesions with significant cystic component not amenable to total extirpation may be treated by repetitive aspirations through an indwelling Ommaya reservoir apparatus. In a small series of 11 adult patients with cystic craniopharyngiomas treated with Ommaya reservoirs, local control was achieved in 8 patients (72.7%) without the need for additional treatment over a follow up period of 41.4 months ( 37 ). Intracystic Irradiation Intracavitary irradiation (brachytherapy) involves stereotactically guided instillation of beta-emitting isotopes into cystic craniopharyngiomas. It delivers a higher radiation dose to the cyst than external beam radiotherapy, resulting in damage of the secretory epithelial lining, elimination of fluid production, and cyst shrinkage. The efficacy of various beta and gamma-emitting isotopes (mainly 32 phosphate, 90 yttrium, 186 rhenium, 198 gold) has been investigated in a number of studies, but given that none of them has the ideal physical and biological profile, there is no consensus on which is the most suitable therapeutic agent. In a systematic review which included 66 children treated with brachytherapy, a reduction in tumor size was reported in 89% of children with cystic only craniopharyngiomas, and in 58% in those with mixed cystic and solid components ( 38 ). In series with mean or median follow-up between 3.1 and 11.9 years providing intracavitary irradiation (mainly with 90 yttrium or 32 phosphorus) at doses of 200-270 Gy, complete or partial cyst resolution was seen in 71-88%, stabilization in 3-19%, and increases in 5-10% of cases ( 39 - 44 ). New cyst formation or increase in the solid component of the tumor were observed in between 6.5 and 20% of cases. Although beta emitters have short range tissue penetrance, lesions in close proximity to the optic apparatus should be approached with caution ( 39 - 44 ). Deterioration of vision has been reported in 10-58% of cases and has been attributed to failure of cyst collapse, formation of new cysts, increase in the solid tumor, or possibly radiation damage. The reported control rates
