Craniopharyngiomas
KEYWORDS: craniopharyngioma, pubmed, craniopharyngiomas, patients, journal, hypothalamic, tumor, surgery, children, treatment, cystic, papillary, cases, clinical, free


in 10-58% of cases and has been attributed to failure of cyst collapse, formation of new cysts, increase in the solid tumor, or possibly radiation damage. The reported control rates combined with low surgical morbidity and mortality render brachytherapy an attractive option for predominantly cystic tumors, particularly those that are monocystic. Intracystic Bleomycin Intracystic installation of the anti-neoplasmatic agent bleomycin has been used in the management of craniopharyngiomas. The drug is administered through an Ommaya reservoir connected to a catheter. In published reports the tumor control rates range between 0 and 100%. However, evidence supporting its efficacy is limited mostly to case reports or non-randomized retrospective studies, and a Cochrane review ( 45 ) exploring the effects of bleomycin in children could not recommend its use. Direct leakage of the drug to surrounding tissues during the installation procedure, diffusion though the cyst wall, or high drug doses have been associated with various toxic (hypothalamic damage, blindness, hearing loss, ischemic attacks, peritumoral edema) or even fatal effects ( 1 , 46 , 47 ). The value of this treatment option in tumor control or even in delaying surgery and/or radiotherapy, as well as the optimal protocol and the clear-cut criteria predicting the long-term outcome, remain to be established in large series with sufficient follow-up. Intracystic Interferon-Alpha Intracystic interferon-alpha is not neurotoxic and is therefore associated with a lower risk of adverse events when compared to other intracystic treatments. Despite encouraging results in a number of studies with short follow up, a large multicenter study demonstrated tumor progression in 75% of patients by a median of just 14 months ( 48 , 49 ). Stereotactic Radiosurgery Stereotactic radiosurgery delivers a single or small number of fraction(s) of high dose ionizing radiation to precisely mapped targets, keeping the exposure of adjacent structures to a minimum. Tumor volume and close attachment to critical structures (e.g., optic apparatus) are limiting factors for its application. Risk of optic neuropathy is <1% when the optic chiasm is constrained to a maximal dose of 10 Gy, 20 Gy, and 25 Gy, for single-fraction SRS, 3-fraction SRS, and 5-fraction SRS respectively ( 50 ). SRS achieves tumor control in a substantial number of patients with small volume lesions and reported 5-year progression free survival ranges between 61% and 90.3% ( 51 - 55 ). Rate of tumor control following SRS is negatively associated with tumor volume ( 56 ),
