Craniopharyngiomas
KEYWORDS: craniopharyngioma, pubmed, craniopharyngiomas, patients, journal, hypothalamic, tumor, surgery, children, treatment, cystic, papillary, cases, clinical, free


reported 5-year progression free survival ranges between 61% and 90.3% ( 51 - 55 ). Rate of tumor control following SRS is negatively associated with tumor volume ( 56 ), thus it is particularly useful for well-defined residual disease following surgery or for the treatment of small, solid recurrent tumors situated at least 3-5mm away from the optic chiasm ( 49 ). Increasing margin dose and maximum dose >35Gy have been associated with increased risk of neurologic deficit following SRS ( 57 ). Studies with long-term follow-up evaluating the optimal marginal dose, its role in the prevention of tumor growth, and its effects on neurocognitive and neuroendocrine function, are needed. Systemic Chemotherapy/Interferon-Alpha The potential benefit of systemic chemotherapy in craniopharyngiomas has been investigated in a very limited number of patients. Thus, Bremer et al. ( 58 ) reported a case of successful management of a recurrent cystic tumor with the combination of vincristine, carmustine (BCNU) and procarbazine. Lippens et al. ( 59 ), after administration of five courses of doxorubicin and lomustin in 4 children with multiple or very rapid recurrences, achieved local control in 75% of them after 3-12 years follow-up. Jakacki et al. ( 60 ), in a series of 12 patients aged <21 years with progressive or recurrent craniopharyngiomas, showed that after 12 months of treatment with interferon-alpha, tumor reduction of at least 25% was observed in 3 cases. However, during the first weeks of therapy 6 patients experienced an increase in the size of the cystic component, which was finally considered as progressive disease in half of them. Interestingly, 67% of patients that completed one year of therapy without progressive disease had an increase in the size of their tumor at a median period of 11 months after discontinuation of the drug. The cytotoxicity (predominantly hepatic, neurological and cutaneous), requiring temporary discontinuation and/or dose reduction within the first 8 weeks of therapy, was significant (in up to 60% of the cases). In 2012, the same group explored the use of pegylated interferon (a derivative of interferon-alpha with a longer half-life) in five patients; all demonstrated a radiological response to treatment and two of them had a complete response ( 61 ). A subsequent phase two multi-center study gave disappointing results. Of 18 adults and children with recurrent craniopharyngiomas who were given systemic pegylated interferon, only one attained a sustained response beyond 3 months ( 62 ).
