Craniopharyngiomas
KEYWORDS: craniopharyngioma, pubmed, craniopharyngiomas, patients, journal, hypothalamic, tumor, surgery, children, treatment, cystic, papillary, cases, clinical, free


study gave disappointing results. Of 18 adults and children with recurrent craniopharyngiomas who were given systemic pegylated interferon, only one attained a sustained response beyond 3 months ( 62 ). Targeted Therapy The finding that most papillary craniopharyngiomas harbor a BRAF (V600E) mutation has opened avenues for use of pharmacological agents specifically targeting and inhibiting mutant BRAF in cases resistant to other treatments. A number of case reports and small case series have demonstrated a significant reduction in tumor size (used alone or in combination with MEK inhibitors), applied neoadjuvantly or after surgery, with or without prior radiotherapy ( 8 , 49 , 63 - 73 ). Common side effects associated with BRAF and MEK inhibitors seen from their use in other diseases (such as metastatic melanoma and papillary thyroid cancer) include rash, fever, diarrhea, arthralgia, and liver dysfunction ( 74 ). Cases of adamantinomatous craniopharyngiomas responding to MEK inhibitors ( 75 ), or controlled with IL-6 inhibitors used alone or in conjunction with VEGR inhibitors ( 12 ), have also been reported. The pros and cons of these new treatment modalities, particularly for aggressive tumors, warrant further assessment by trials with large number of patients and adequate follow-up. Two clinical trials (BRAF and MEK inhibitors for papillary craniopharyngiomas, and IL-6 inhibitors for children with adamantinomatous craniopharyngiomas) are currently ongoing ( 76 , 77 ). Initial results from one of these trials – a phase two study which included sixteen patients with papillary craniopharyngiomas harboring the BRAF V600E mutation – have been presented. All patients were treated with oral vemurafenib (BRAF inhibitor) and cobimetinib (MEK inhibitor) in 28-day cycles. Median age and follow up duration were 49.5 years and 1.8 years respectively. In those where volumetric imaging data was available, 14 (93.3%) had a radiological response to treatment, with a median tumor reduction of 83%. Grade 3 (severe) toxicities occurred in 12 patients, whilst grade 4 (potentially life threatening) toxicities occurred in two patients. Three patients stopped treatment due to adverse events ( 78 ). MORBIDITY AND MORTALITY Craniopharyngiomas are associated with significant long-term morbidity (mainly involving endocrine, visual, hypothalamic, neurobehavioral, and cognitive sequelae), which is attributed to the damage of critical structures by the primary or recurrent tumor and/or to the adverse effects of the therapeutic interventions. Notably, the severity of the radiation-induced late toxicity is affected by the total and per fraction doses, the volume of the exposed
