Craniopharyngiomas
KEYWORDS: craniopharyngioma, pubmed, craniopharyngiomas, patients, journal, hypothalamic, tumor, surgery, children, treatment, cystic, papillary, cases, clinical, free


to the adverse effects of the therapeutic interventions. Notably, the severity of the radiation-induced late toxicity is affected by the total and per fraction doses, the volume of the exposed normal tissue, and the young age in childhood populations ( 1 ). Endocrine Long-term endocrine morbidity is significant. At last assessment, the rates of individual hormone deficits range between 88−100% for GH, 80−95% for FSH/LH, 55−88% for ACTH, 39−95% for TSH and 25−86% for ADH ( 1 ). Restoration of pre-existing hormone deficits following surgical removal is rare, and aggressive surgery leads to more frequent pituitary dysfunction ( 1 , 23 , 79 ). The phenomenon of «growth without growth hormone» has been reported in some children with craniopharyngioma who show normal or even accelerated linear growth, despite their untreated GH deficiency. The pathophysiological mechanism has not been clarified; the obesity-associated hyperinsulinemia has been proposed as a factor stimulating growth by affecting serum concentrations of IGF-I or by binding directly to the IGF-I receptor ( 80 , 81 ). Review of adult patients with craniopharyngioma and severe GH deficiency but no recent GH treatment (from the KIMS database: Pfizer International Metabolic Database) has shown that those with childhood-onset disease were shorter than those with adult-onset disease, and obesity was more common in the adult-onset patients. Furthermore, quality of life, assessed by Quality of Life-Assessment of Growth Hormone Deficiency in Adults (QoL-AGHDA) and the Nottingham Health Profile, was markedly reduced with no significant differences between those with childhood-onset and those with adult-onset disease ( 82 ). A 3-year longitudinal analysis of the changes in height, weight, and body mass index (BMI) SDS in 199 GH-treated pre-pubertal children with post-surgical and/or post-irradiated craniopharyngioma showed that GH therapy induced excellent linear growth compared with children with other forms of organic GH deficiency. Still, the children with craniopharyngioma had a higher BMI; GH had no salutary effect on weight SDS and caused only a mild improvement in BMI SDS ( 83 ). A study of 351 patients with adult-onset craniopharyngioma compared with 370 patients with non-functioning pituitary adenomas matched for age and sex (all GH deficient) demonstrated that, after two years of GH replacement, there were significant similar improvements in both groups in free-fat mass, total and low-density lipoprotein and Quality of Life Assessment in the GH-deficient score compared with baseline. Results from a 12-year prospective study showed children with craniopharyngioma treated with GH
