Craniopharyngiomas
KEYWORDS: craniopharyngioma, pubmed, craniopharyngiomas, patients, journal, hypothalamic, tumor, surgery, children, treatment, cystic, papillary, cases, clinical, free


mass, total and low-density lipoprotein and Quality of Life Assessment in the GH-deficient score compared with baseline. Results from a 12-year prospective study showed children with craniopharyngioma treated with GH had improved weight and quality of life outcomes compared to those who were not replaced, or in those who only received GH as adults ( 84 ). Observational studies have also shown that growth hormone replacement is not associated with increased risk of tumor recurrence. Diabetes insipidus with an absent or impaired sense of thirst confers a significant risk of serious electrolyte imbalance, and is one of the most difficult complications to manage. In this group of patients, the maintenance of osmotic balance has been shown to be precarious with recurrent episodes of hyper- or hyponatremia contributing to morbidity and mortality. Careful fluid balance with close monitoring of intake/output and daily weights is crucial. Vision Visual outcome is adversely affected by the presence of visual symptoms at diagnosis and by daily irradiation doses >2 Gy ( 1 ). Radiation optic neuropathy occurs in 1–2% patients receiving doses to 50 Gy and this is mostly conﬁned to those with pre-radiotherapy visual impairment, with the risk being higher with doses of 55 Gy and above ( 1 , 28 ). Hypothalamic Hypothalamic damage may result in hyperphagia and uncontrollable obesity, disorders of thirst and water/electrolyte balance, behavioral and cognitive impairment, loss of temperature control and disordered sleep pattern. Among these, obesity is the most frequent (reported in 26-61% of the patients treated by surgery combined or not with radiotherapy) and is a consequence of the disruption of the mechanisms controlling satiety, hunger, and energy balance ( 1 , 15 , 85 - 88 ). Possible contributing mechanisms include lack of sensitivity to endogenous leptin ( 89 , 90 ) and reduced energy expenditure, and is exaggerated by comorbidities including neurological defects, visual failure, somnolence ( 91 ), sleep disturbance, hypopituitarism and psychosocial disorders ( 92 ). In a study of 63 survivors of childhood craniopharyngioma, all those with marked obesity after surgery had evidence of significant alterations of the normal hypothalamic anatomy, with their MRI showing either complete deficiency or extensive destruction of the floor of the 3 rd ventricle ( 93 ). Several image grading systems, used pre- or post-operatively, have been proposed to help predict hypothalamic sequalae and hypothalamic morbidity by defining hypothalamic involvement on imaging and severity of tumor
