Craniopharyngiomas
KEYWORDS: craniopharyngioma, pubmed, craniopharyngiomas, patients, journal, hypothalamic, tumor, surgery, children, treatment, cystic, papillary, cases, clinical, free


). Several image grading systems, used pre- or post-operatively, have been proposed to help predict hypothalamic sequalae and hypothalamic morbidity by defining hypothalamic involvement on imaging and severity of tumor adherence to the hypothalamus ( 94 - 98 ). Furthermore, it has been reported that the basal metabolic rate adjusted to total body weight is significantly lower in adults with craniopharyngioma compared with controls, and that the energy intake/basal metabolic rate ratio is significantly lower in subjects with tumor growth into the 3 rd ventricle ( 99 ). Children with surgically-treated craniopharyngioma were found to have decreased aerobic capacity during an exercise test, which was most pronounced in those with hypothalamic involvement. Interestingly, in this study, GH treatment was associated with significant positive effect on aerobic capacity only in the absence of hypothalamic involvement ( 100 ). Finally, high levels of the orexigenic gastric hormone ghrelin have not been found in these patients ( 101 ). Factors proposed to be associated with significant hypothalamic morbidity are young age at presentation, hypothalamic disturbance at diagnosis, hypothalamic invasion, attempts to remove adherent tumor from the region of hypothalamus, multiple operations for recurrence, and hypothalamic radiation doses >51 Gy ( 1 , 102 , 103 ). Interestingly, in a retrospective study including 45 adults with craniopharyngioma followed for a median of 26 months, a lower BMI pre-operatively was predictive of greater post-operative weight gain( 104 ). In contrast, a higher pre-operative BMI has been found to be associated with severe post-operative obesity in children( 18 ). Hypothalamic obesity often results in devastating metabolic and psychosocial complications, necessitating provision of dietary and behavioral modifications, encouragement of regular physical activity, psychological counselling, and anti-obesity drugs. Based on a limited number of published cases, gastric bypass surgery results in weight loss; in a systematic review and meta-analysis including 21 cases of bariatric surgery for hypothalamic obesity in patients with craniopharyngioma (6 with adjustable gastric banding, 8 with sleeve gastrectomy, 6 with Roux-en-Y gastric bypass and 1 with biliopancreatic diversion), it was shown that the maximal mean weight loss was achieved in the gastric bypass group after 12 months ( 105 ). Furthermore, Weismann et al. ( 106 ) in a series of 7 patients with morbid obesity after surgery for craniopharyngioma, who underwent laparoscopic gastric banding or laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy, reported no significant loss of body weight. A case control study suggested that Roux-en-Y surgery, but
