Craniopharyngiomas
KEYWORDS: craniopharyngioma, pubmed, craniopharyngiomas, patients, journal, hypothalamic, tumor, surgery, children, treatment, cystic, papillary, cases, clinical, free


obesity after surgery for craniopharyngioma, who underwent laparoscopic gastric banding or laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy, reported no significant loss of body weight. A case control study suggested that Roux-en-Y surgery, but not sleeve gastrectomy, yielded equivalent weight loss in craniopharyngioma patients to those with “common” obesity and resulted in significant reductions to BMI after one year ( 107 ). The same group subsequently conducted a larger, multi-center case control study, with a median follow up of 5.2 years ( 108 ). Obese patients with craniopharyngioma had a mean weight loss of 22% at 5 years after bariatric surgery; irrespective of type of procedure. In contrast to their original findings ( 107 ), obese controls lost more weight after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, whereas sleeve gastrectomy led to similar results in both groups ( 108 ). Medical therapies including dextroamphetamine, the combination of diazoxide and metformin (aiming to reduce the hyperinsulinemia), octreotide (aiming to reduce hyperinsulinemia and simultaneously enhance the insulin action), glucagon-like peptide-1 analogues, and a novel methionine aminopeptidase 2 inhibitor, have all been proposed as potential approaches to this significant problem ( 92 ). However, outcomes following these therapies are variable and long-term benefits have not yet been established. Studies with large number of patients and longer follow-up are needed to establish the efficacy and safety of these surgical and medical management options. Neuropsychological and Cognitive The compromised neuropsychological and cognitive function in patients with craniopharyngioma after surgery and radiation therapy contributes significantly to poor academic and work performance, disrupted family and social relationships, disrupted body image, and impaired quality of life. Gross total resection, radiotherapy, pre-operative hypothalamic involvement, or intra-operative hypothalamic injury have been associated with a lower quality of life in adults and children with craniopharyngioma ( 109 ). It has also been proposed that visual, neurological, and endocrine morbidities negatively impact neuropsychological outcomes ( 110 , 111 ). Areas particularly affected (especially in childhood-onset disease) include memory, attention, executive function, and motivation ( 110 , 112 - 114 ), with hypothalamic involvement being a risk factor for poorer outcomes ( 113 ). In a series of 121 patients followed-up for a mean period of 10 years, Duff et al. ( 115 ) found that 40% had poor functional neuropsychiatric outcome. Karavitaki et al. ( 15 ), in a series of 121 patients, found cumulative probabilities for permanent motor deficits, epilepsy, psychological disorders necessitating treatment, and complete dependency for
