Craniopharyngiomas
KEYWORDS: craniopharyngioma, pubmed, craniopharyngiomas, patients, journal, hypothalamic, tumor, surgery, children, treatment, cystic, papillary, cases, clinical, free


neuropsychiatric outcome. Karavitaki et al. ( 15 ), in a series of 121 patients, found cumulative probabilities for permanent motor deficits, epilepsy, psychological disorders necessitating treatment, and complete dependency for basal daily activities at 10-year follow-up of 11%, 12%, 15% and 9%, respectively. There is no consensus on the therapeutic option with the least unfavorable impact on the neurobehavioral outcome, necessitating prospective studies with formal neuropsychological testing and specific behavioral assessment before and after any intervention. Such data will be particularly important for young children, as there are uncertainties including whether delaying irradiation is a reasonable policy in this age group. Long-Term Mortality The mortality rates of patients with craniopharyngioma have been described to be 3-6 times higher than that of the general population and reported 10-years survival rates range between 83% and 93% ( 1 , 87 ). Qiao et al.( 116 ) reported a significant fall in the SMR from 6.2 (95% CI 4.1-9.4) to 2.9 (95% CI 2.2-3.8) for studies published before 2010, and after 2010, respectively ( 116 ). Apart from the deaths directly attributed to the tumor (pressure effects to critical structures) and to the surgical interventions, the risk of cardio-/cerebrovascular and respiratory mortality is increased ( 1 , 117 , 118 ). In one study which included 244 patients with childhood onset craniopharyngioma, 11% of patients developed a cerebral infarction. Hydrocephalus and gross total resection were identified as risk factors, and none were attributable to radiotherapy ( 119 ). The increased cardiovascular mortality in this population may be driven in part by hypothalamic obesity and related metabolic complications. Long-term follow-up of adult patients with craniopharyngiomas has demonstrated increased prevalence of the metabolic syndrome compared with the general population ( 120 ), and hypothalamic involvement has been shown to have negative impact on mortality ( 121 ). It has been suggested that in childhood populations the hypoadrenalism and the associated hypoglycemia, as well as the metabolic consequences of ADH deficiency and absent thirst, may also contribute to the excessive mortality. The impact of tumor recurrence on the long-term mortality is widely accepted and the 10-year survival rates in such cases range between 29% and 70%, depending on the subsequent treatment modalities ( 15 ). CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE PERSPECTIVES Craniopharyngiomas present many unique challenges for clinicians. Whilst controversies regarding the optimal management approach for these rare tumors still exist, the need to prevent hypothalamic morbidities associated
