Overview of Revascularization for Acute Coronary
KEYWORDS: pci, patients, elevation, st-segment elevation, st-segment, myocardial infarction, myocardial, infarction, coronary, fibrinolytics, elevation myocardial, minutes, cabg, stemi, therapy


ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction Emergency PCI is the preferred treatment of ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) when available in a timely fashion (door to balloon-inflation time < 90 minutes) by an experienced operator (1). Indications for urgent PCI later in the course of STEMI include hemodynamic instability, malignant arrhythmias requiring transvenous pacing or repeated cardioversion, and age > 75 years. If the lesions necessitate CABG, there is significant mortality and a higher morbidity rate. If there is likely to be a significant delay in availability of PCI, thrombolysis should be done for STEMI patients meeting criteria (see table Fibrinolytic Therapy for STEMI). Reperfusion using fibrinolytics is most effective if given in the first few minutes to hours after onset of myocardial infarction. The earlier a fibrinolytic is begun, the better. The goal is a door-to-needle time of 30 to 60 minutes. Greatest benefit occurs within 3 hours, but the drugs may be effective up to 12 hours. Used with aspirin, fibrinolytics reduce hospital mortality rate by 30 to 50% and improve ventricular function. Prehospital use of fibrinolytics by trained paramedics can significantly reduce time to treatment and should be considered in situations in which PCI within 90 minutes is not possible, particularly in patients presenting within 3 hours of symptom onset. Regardless, most patients who undergo thrombolysis will ultimately require transfer to a PCI-capable facility for elective angiography and PCI as necessary before discharge. PCI should be considered after fibrinolytics if chest pain or ST-segment elevation persists ≥ 60 minutes after initiation of fibrinolytics or if pain and ST-segment elevation recur, but only if PCI can be initiated < 90 minutes after onset of recurrence. If PCI is unavailable, fibrinolytics can be repeated. Characteristics and selection of fibrinolytic drugs are discussed elsewhere. 2/4 TABLE Fibrinolytic Therapy for STEMI Criteria Specifics ST-segment elevation in ≥ 2 contiguous leads Typical symptoms and left bundle ECG criteria* branch block not known to be old Strictly posterior MI (large R wave in V1 and ST depression in V1–V4 Aortic dissection Previous hemorrhagic stroke (at any time) Previous ischemic stroke within 1 year Absolute contraindications Active internal bleeding (not menses) Intracranial tumor Pericarditis Blood pressure > 180/110 mm Hg after initial antihypertensive therapy Trauma or major surgery within 4 weeks Active peptic ulcer Relative contraindications Pregnancy Bleeding diathesis Noncompressible vascular puncture Current anticoagulation (INR > 2) * Patients presenting in the
