INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Feb. 1994, p. 569-578 Vol. 62, No. 2
KEYWORDS: tissue, strains, organisms, solution, fig, typhimurium, invasion, mucosal, tml, experiments, strain, used, enterocytes, different, data


INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Feb. 1994, p. 569-578 Vol. 62, No. 2 0019-9567/94/$04.00+0 Quantitative Studies of Invasion of Rabbit Ileal Mucosa by Salmonella typhimurium Strains Which Differ in Virulence in a Model of Gastroenteritis I. I. AMIN,'t G. R. DOUCE,'t M. P. OSBORNE,- AND J. STEPHEN'* Microbial Molecular Genetics and CellBiology Group, School ofBiological Sciences,' and Departmenit ofPhysiology, Received 13 August 1993/Returned for modification 4 October 1993/Accepted 16 November 1993 An asymmetricorgan culture system inwhich ilealtissues,freshly removedfrom rabbits,can be maintained structurally and functionally for up to 4 h has been developed. The composition of the solutions used to maintain ilealtissueinvitrowereasfollows.Theserosal surfacewasbathed intheWorld Health Organization (WHO) rehydration formulation: NaCl, 60 mM; NaHCO3, 30 mM; KCI, 20 mM; and glucose, 111 mM. The mucosal surface was bathed in the same solution with two important changes: all the sodium was replaced by choline, which is not absorbed, and tissue culture medium (consisting of commercial minimal essential medium to which was added fetal calfserum and glutamine to final concentrations of 10% [vol/vol] and 2.0 mM, respectively) was added to the choline-containing medium to a final concentration of 10% (vol/vol). The initialinvasiveness (first2h) ofseven strainsofSalmonellatyphimurium differinginvirulence (defined interms ofclinical originortheabilitytoinducefluid loss inmonkeys orrabbit ileal loops) was assessed quantitatively inaninvitroinvasionassaywiththeorganculturesystem.Thevirulentstrains (TML,W118,andWAKE)were found to be about 25- to 100-fold more invasive than the avirulent strains (SL1027, M206, LT7, and Thax-1). Thus, a clear correlation between initial mucosal invasion and virulence ofS. typhimurium in a model which is relevant to humangastroenteritis was established.This is the firsttime, to ourknowledge, that quantitative studies ofinvasiveness have been carried out in vitro on freshly isolated functioning gut. The mechanisms and the microbial determinants responsi- ized enterocytes by S. tvphimurium. In vivo, S. typhimurium ble forinvasion ofgut mucosabyentericpathogens are among organisms penetrate via the brush border;with ordinary organ the most actively researched areas in bacterial pathogenicity. cultures, theyinvadedbyserosal andcut surfacesin addition to Most current research is based on the production ofnoninva- the brush border. sive mutants from invasive wild-type parents and subsequent An asymmetric organ culture system has been developed in analysis of such mutants to determine which gene or gene this laboratory for short-term quantitative studies on the early function has been altered. While the genetic approach- associationofS. typhimuirium strainsdifferinginvirulence (23). involving the use of transposons in general and TnphoA in The tissue remained intact for up to I h, which was sufficient particular-isonapriorigrounds sound,thescreeningsystems for qualitative demonstration but insufficient for quantitative most
