INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Feb. 1994, p. 569-578 Vol. 62, No. 2
KEYWORDS: tissue, strains, organisms, solution, fig, typhimurium, invasion, mucosal, tml, experiments, strain, used, enterocytes, different, data


use of transposons in general and TnphoA in The tissue remained intact for up to I h, which was sufficient particular-isonapriorigrounds sound,thescreeningsystems for qualitative demonstration but insufficient for quantitative most often used to select appropriate mutants for study are measurement of invasiveness. However, beyond I h, absorbed open to several criticisms, the most important ofwhich is that fluid accumulated in the laminapropria, causingan edematous they utilize either nongut cells or transformed gut cells. swelling and loss of large tracts of epithelium, destroying the strains tested (3, 18). changeoftenassociatedwithhypoxia)despitevigorousgassing. Previous attempts in this laboratory to obtain isolated Here we describe further development of the organ culture enterocytes from adult rabbit ileum by standard techniques system which enabled quantitative studies of S. typhimurium consistently failed to produce viable enterocytes. However, invasion of intestinal mucosae in vitro to be made. This isolated rat (12) and human (10) enterocytes have been used involved the use of both light and electron microscopy in the successfully tostudy the adherence ofSalmonella typhimurium study of the effects of temperature and the composition of and noninvasive Escherichia coli, respectively; however, rat bathing media on gut mucosa in vitro. The conditions sought enterocytes were too fragile for invasion studies (12). The use were those designed to slow down, if not inhibit, tissue- ofordinary organ cultures (1) has been successful in the study wrecking uptake of fluid and to enhance the preservation of of adherence of noninvasive bacteria such as E. coli to brush enterocytes. border epithelia (4, 10), but, in our experience, these were of no value in quantitative studies ofvectorial invasion ofpolar- MATERIALS AND METHODS Organ culture. The organ culture system (Fig. 1) was as * Corresponding author. Mailing address: Microbial MolecularGe- described previously (23) except that the solutions used were netics and Cell BiologyGroup, School ofBiological Sciences, Univer- as described below. Kingdom. Phone: 021 414 6550. Fax: 021 414 6557. rehydration formulation: NaCl, 60 mM; NaHCO3, 30 mM; KCI, 20 mM; andglucose, 111 mM. Solution GCwas the same St. Louis, MO 63130-4899. Medicine, London SW7 2AZ, United Kingdom. choline chloride and 30 mM NaHCO3was replaced by 30 mM 57Q AMIN ET AL. INFECT. IMMUN. Hartley digest broth (HDB) was obtained from Oxoid aerosoltrap (Basingstoke, UnitedKingdom)untilrecentdiscontinuationof production. Another portion of HDB was obtained from the a batch made for them by Oxoid. MacConkey agar was obtained from Becton Dickinson (Oxford, United Kingdom). Preparation ofinocula for invasion assay. Organisms were
