INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Feb. 1994, p. 569-578 Vol. 62, No. 2
KEYWORDS: tissue, strains, organisms, solution, fig, typhimurium, invasion, mucosal, tml, experiments, strain, used, enterocytes, different, data


of HDB was obtained from the a batch made for them by Oxoid. MacConkey agar was obtained from Becton Dickinson (Oxford, United Kingdom). Preparation ofinocula for invasion assay. Organisms were retrieved asrequired fromculturesstoredat -70°C, platedon MacConkey agar plates, and incubated overnight. Bacteria were transferred from MacConkey agar by a sweep (several colonies) to 10 ml ofHDB in a 25-ml screw-capped bottle and incubated statically at 37°C overnight. This culture was centri- fuged, and the bacteria were resuspended in 10 ml of fresh medium, 1 ml ofwhichwastransferred into90ml ofHDB and incubated statically at 37°C for 3 h. Except for strain Thax-1 which grew poorly, all strains used had similar growth charac- teristics. Under the conditions used, 3 h was the earliest time point at which the lowest ratio (1:<2) of viable to total organisms was achieved. After centrifugation, the bacteria were washed in saline and then resuspended in the test solution medium to be used for invasion studies. The inoculum suspen- ilealtissue sionwasmixed thoroughly ito minimize clump formation) and adjustedto an estimated 10 viable organismsperml,basedon total counts, before use; viable-cell countswere also done. For the latter, MacConkeyagarwas routinelyusedforbothinocula and tissue homogenates; this allowed discrimination ofnormal FIG. 1. Cross-sectional diagram ofthe invitro organculture appa- (lactose-fermenting) gut flora without treatment of the gut ratus. The dimensions are notexactly to scale, but thevolumeoffluid with antibiotics. immediately adjacent to the tissue (diameter, 8 mm) is thatcontained Estimation of number of enterocytes exposed to bacteria. o in f a th c i y s li i n n d r e e r l a a p ti p o r n o s x h i i m p at to el o y rg 5 a m ni m sm d / e e e n p t ; er s o e c e yt t e he r t a e t x i t os f . orthesignificance The calculations of the number of exposed enterocytes were based on electron micrographs such as reported earlier (22, 23). The radius (r) of ileal tissue exposed to bacterial suspen- sion was 4 mm (the radius of the chamber port); hence, the choline bicarbonate; choline compounds were obtained from surface area (7rr2) was 3.142 x 4 mm2 = 50 mm2. On average, Sigma (Poole, United Kingdom). Solution M was the same as 63 villi were present in 2.5 mm2 of ileal mucosa observed by
