INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Feb. 1994, p. 569-578 Vol. 62, No. 2
KEYWORDS: tissue, strains, organisms, solution, fig, typhimurium, invasion, mucosal, tml, experiments, strain, used, enterocytes, different, data


kV in a JEOL 120CX II and organisms in vivo. Hence, only organisms with sufficient electron microscope fitted with a lanthanum hexaboride motility and adherence potential are likely to attach to and (LaB6) filament. penetrate cells. Bacterial strains and media. The strains used were those Growth ofS. typhimurium in different solutions. The muco- described previously (3). Strains TML, W118, and WAKE are sal component of any solution combination which gave rise to theirabilitytoelicit afluidresponse intherabbitileal looptest. support S. typhimurium growth, since bacteriawould be finally Strains LT7, SL1027, M206, and Thax-1 are avirulent, as suspended and presented to the tissue in this medium. Viable- judged from their failure to cause disease in monkeys (re- cell counts were made over a period of6 h after suspension of viewed in reference 19) or fluid secretion in rabbit ileal loop theorganisms in the testmedium and staticincubation at37°C. tests (21). Strain SL1027 was flagellated and nonmotile; strain Solution Tcm was used as a control in these experiments Thax-1 was nonflagellated and nonmotile (23). because we were attempting to find the minimum amount of VO)L. 62, 1994 INVASION OF ILEAL MUCOSA BY S. TYPHIMURIUM STRAINS 571 _ A~~~~~ FIG. 3. Toluidine blue-stained section of rabbit ileum incubated FIG. 2. Toluidine blue-stained section of rabbit ileum incubated for 3 h at 37°C with solution GC/Tcm,,, on the mucosal side and for4h at4°Cwithsolution Gonthemucosal andserosal sides.Tissue solution Gon the serosal side. Tissue architecturewaswellpreserved, architecture was well preserved, with no fluid accumulation in the with incipient fluid accumulation in the lamina propria. At4 h, tissue lamina propria. Bar, 20 ,um. architecture was still well preserved, with a further small increase in edema in the lamina propria (*). Bar, 20 pLm. Tcm which needed to be added to GC medium to maintain viability ofthe organisms as well as preserve the tissue. Tissue viability. Rabbit ileal mucosae were obtained from at the stripping stage, and the experiment is discontinued animalswhichwere overtlynondiarrheic andwhich showed no because ofthe extreme difficulty in removing the muscle layer signs of loose stools in the gut at biopsy. Experiments were from the mucosal layer. On other occasions, control mucosae carried out with New Zealand White rabbits, the majority of appear to be abnormal during histological examination. In the which weighed 2 to 3 kg; heavier but not lighter animals were latter case, the data would be discarded, since even under the occasionally used, with no significant difference
