INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Feb. 1994, p. 569-578 Vol. 62, No. 2
KEYWORDS: tissue, strains, organisms, solution, fig, typhimurium, invasion, mucosal, tml, experiments, strain, used, enterocytes, different, data


the which weighed 2 to 3 kg; heavier but not lighter animals were latter case, the data would be discarded, since even under the occasionally used, with no significant difference in the data optimal conditions described in this article for retention ofgut obtained. Ileal mucosae were prepared and mounted in the architecture, villi from such animals would disintegrate. No eight-chamber apparatus (23) with the following changes. explanation has ever been found for all such peculiarities. Initially,segmentsofgutwere removed fromtheanaesthetized Invasion assays. Organisms were grown in HDB and sus- animal and placed in ice-cold solution G before the mucosae pended (asdescribedabove) inthemediumtobeusedtobathe were stripped from the underlying muscle layer. Subsequently, the mucosal side of the tissue. Mucosal medium (3.0 ml) was in a step based on the results ofexperiments described below, added tothemucosal sideofeachoftwo (control) chambersof gut was removed from the animal and placed in solution the organculture apparatus, and 2.0 ml wasaddedtothesame GC/Tcml,. The mucosal and serosal sides of each chamber side ofthe other six chambers. Solution G (3.0 ml) was added werebathedwiththesolutions indicatedbelowandgassedwith to the serosal side of all eight chambers. Bacterial suspension a mixture of 95%c 0-5% CO, for different times at 37°C; in (1.0 ml) was added to the mucosal side of each of the six test one case, tissuewasbathed at4°C. Tissueswere then removed chambers. The organ culture apparatuswas then incubated for from all eightchambers, fixed, and routinely examinedbylight 2 h at 370C, and both sides ofthe tissue were gassed with 95% microscopy; selected tissueswerefurtherexaminedbyelectron 0-,-5% CO. Supernatants were then withdrawn from the microscopy. Comparisonswere madewith unincubatedcontrol mucosal side. Fresh medium was added to the mucosal side to tissue. rinse the tissue; this was then removed, and 3.0 ml of fresh Tissue suitability. Over a period of 12 years, considerable medium (containing 1l00(g of gentamicin per ml) was added experience has been gained in this laboratory in working with to the mucosal side of each chamber. The apparatus was rabbitgut. On some occasions, the ilealwallbehaves atypically incubated for 1 h at 37°C with gassing, afterwhich fluids from 572 AMIN ET AL. INFECT. IMMUN. FIG. 4. TEMofrabbitilealmucosaeincubatedfor4hat37°CwithsolutionGC/Tcml( onthemucosalsideandsolutionGontheserosalside. (a) Villi were well preserved, with some fluid accumulation in the lamina propria (*). (b) Enterocytes (arrow) appear normal. (c) Goblet cell (arrowhead) showed noevidence ofexsorption ofcontents. (d)Brushborderandtightjunctionswerenormal. Mitochondria ingeneralappeared normal (see Fig. 8e) but in some areaswere electron lucent (d). Bars: a, 63 ,um; b, 6.3 p.m; c, 4.5 p.m;
