INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Feb. 1994, p. 569-578 Vol. 62, No. 2
KEYWORDS: tissue, strains, organisms, solution, fig, typhimurium, invasion, mucosal, tml, experiments, strain, used, enterocytes, different, data


6 7 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Time(h) Time(h) Time(h) FIG. 5. Survival ofS. tvphimulriumn TML, LT7, and Thax-l in Tcm, solution GC. and solution GC/Tcm,( incubated at 37C. The data are expressed asnumberofviable bacteriaper milliliterofculture. The data are unpooled and are representative ofseveral experiments performed on different days. Virulent strains WI18 and WAKE behaved similarly to strain TML. Avirulent strains SLl027 and M206 behaved similarly to strain LT7. Thax-l isdifferent from all the otherstrains used in that it is slowgrowing and much more difficult to handle. It was included mainly for reasons ofhistorical continuity with earlierwork; it could have been left out without diminishing the significance ofthese results. used different virulent and avirulent strain combinations. Sta- solute uptake is an active process driven by ATP-requiring tisticalanalysisofthedataforthe threevirulentstrainsshowed Na+/K+ pumps, the water uptake which ensues would be thattheywerenotsignificantly different andhencejustifiedthe depressedbya reduction inmetabolicrate.Thispredictionwas treatment used to obtain the results shown in Fig. 7.) realized: little ornofluidaccumulated in the laminapropriaof In some experiments, tissue from an infected chamber was villi (Fig. 2). taken andprocessed forhistological examination and/orTEM. (ii) Solution G (mucosal) andsolutionM (serosal);2,3,and Effectiveness of gentamicin. Gentamicin is the nearly uni- 4 h; 37°C. In three separate experiments, rabbit ileal mucosae versal choice of agent for killing extracellular organisms in were bathed on the mucosal side with glucose-rich solution G invasion assays. However, it is important to test the efficacy of and on the serosal side with solution M. The rationale was to gentamicin in any new system, since statements concerning see whether the high glucose concentration would help pre- internalization are based on recovery of gentamicin-resistant serve the tissue while the increased osmolarity on the serosal organisms. Two types of experiment were carried out; typical sidewouldhelppullanyaccumulatingtissuefluidfromthevilli data are given. With a suspension of strain WI 18 in culture across the submucosal tissue. Villi remained intact after 2 h, medium containing 100 ,ug ofgentamicin per ml, the number (comparable to those illustrated in Fig. 2), and enterocytes ofviableorganismsafter 1 hofincubation droppedfrom 108to appeared to be normal, with intact brush borders. By 3 h, villi 5 x 102. Experiments were carried out in chambers with had accumulated considerable fluid, which by 4 h had caused strains WI18 and SL1027; typical data are given. Viable-cell destruction of villus architecture in general, with loss of counts were carried out on mucosal supernatants after
