INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Feb. 1994, p. 569-578 Vol. 62, No. 2
KEYWORDS: tissue, strains, organisms, solution, fig, typhimurium, invasion, mucosal, tml, experiments, strain, used, enterocytes, different, data


the organ culture systemwasalsoassessedduringinvasionassays.Thenumberof postinfection with virulent strain TML and avirulent strain organisms in the chamberfluid increased ca. three- to fivefold SL1027. With strain TML, organisms were found at different overaperiodof2h.Thisincrease isgreaterthanthatobserved stages of invasion either singly or in groups (Fig. 8a to c). in Tcm, which must mean that extra nutrient was provided by Morphological alterations included microvillus elongationand the tissue which enriched solution GC/Tcm1o for supporting segmentation, leading to brush border disruption in and the growth ofS. typhimurium. around the region where bacteria were penetrating the apical Quantitative invasion assays of S. typhimurium strains. cytoplasm. The surrounding brush border of adjacent cells, Becauseoftheforegoingdata,solutionGC/Tcml( wasusedfor however,appearedtoberelativelyundisturbed. Theorganisms invasion assays; the data are summarized in Fig. 6. There are were also seen in vacuoles in the enterocytes (Fig. 8d and e). several points to note. Experiments 1, 2, and 3 with TML and These effectswere similar to those demonstrated previously in WAKE, 1 and 2 with W118, 1 and 2 with SL1027, and 1 with thislaboratoryinbothinvivoandinvitrostudies(22,23).With VOL. 62, 1994 INVASION OF ILEAL MUCOSA BY S. 7YPHIMURIUM STRAINS 575 Solution GC also failed to support the growth of S. typhi- 100 murium, possibly because of the lack of an available nitrogen Cl) ch source or changes in membrane potentials due to the lack of Na+. c).- a.) *- Successful tissue preservation over 4 h was achieved by 0( 2- supplementing solution GC with 10% Tcm, enabling invasion 2: assays to be carried out. This preservation was ascribed to the a.CDO addition of available nitrogenous nutrients in Tcm and/or the ')E > provision of sufficient Na+ (in Tcm) to activate Na+/glucose symport, allowing the inward transport of glucose, which then a) D a) m6 provides an energy source for the enterocytes. Between 3 and a) 4 h, the onlymajorchangewas an increase in edema in thevilli. 00a) <1) This could be interpreted in one oftwo ways. First, the edema -; ,trm -MA I could be a sign of tissue breakdown allowing the influx of 0 water. Second, it could reflect the fact that the tissue was still VIR SL1027 M206 LT7 Thax-1 functioning but at a significantly slower rate, since Tcm con- Strains tainsNa+. The latterinterpretation isfavored because electron microscopic studies revealed that the epithelia were largely FIG. 7. Data from Fig. 6 for avirulent strains normalized to those intact. foravirulent (VIR) strain (whose invasivenesswassetto 100%) tested In view of the recent report
