INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Feb. 1994, p. 569-578 Vol. 62, No. 2
KEYWORDS: tissue, strains, organisms, solution, fig, typhimurium, invasion, mucosal, tml, experiments, strain, used, enterocytes, different, data


the epithelia were largely FIG. 7. Data from Fig. 6 for avirulent strains normalized to those intact. foravirulent (VIR) strain (whose invasivenesswassetto 100%) tested In view of the recent report (7) that Salmonella-induced on tissues derived from the same rabbit on the same day. This ruffles direct macropinocytosis of noninvasive bacteria into normalization wasjustified on the grounds that, as described in the legend to Fig. 6, there were no significant differences between the HEp-2 cells, the question maybe raisedwhether the organisms three virulent strains. The bars represent the standard error of the recovered from the tissue homogenates were in factSalmonella mean forthree experimental chambers. The bars from left to right for cells and not endogenous intestinal microflora. We do not each strain correspond tothe barsfor individual experiments in Fig. 6. think that this is a problem in ourgut assay for several reasons. In M206 experiments 1, 2, 3, and 4strain M206was analyzed together First, we work only with clinically healthy animals, specifically with TML (experiment 1), W118 (experiment 5), W118 (experiment those which are manifestly nondiarrheic. Second, the only 7), and WAKE (experiment 7), respectively. In LT7 experiments 1, 2, organisms that would remain associated with the tissue would 3, and 4, strain LT7 was analyzed together with TML (experiment 2), be thosewhichwere adherent to the tissue; thevast majority of W118 (experiment 5), WI18 (experiment 7), and WAKE (experiment luminal organisms are removed by washing and rinsing during 7), respectively. For both of these avirulent strains, the relative invasiveness was closely similar regardless of which of the three the preparation of the mucosa for the assay. It has already virulent strains was used forcomparison. Thiswas true even when the been shown in earlier work (23) that it is extremely difficult to invasiveness ofTML (experiments 1 and 2) was low; the invasiveness find organisms in control tissue or in tissue exposed to .108 ofstrains M206and LT7was too low toshowon the scale used in Fig. noninvasive S. typhimurium organisms by scanning electron 6, but invasiveness data for these strains relative to TML were microscopy. Third, before the number of putatively internal- comparable to the other data in this figure. Similar considerations ized organisms is estimated, tissues are incubatedwith gentam- apply to strains SL1027 and Thax-1. icin, which, under the conditions of these experiments, kills most of the organisms added to the system. It is hard to interpret the remaining tissue-associated organisms as
