INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Feb. 1994, p. 569-578 Vol. 62, No. 2
KEYWORDS: tissue, strains, organisms, solution, fig, typhimurium, invasion, mucosal, tml, experiments, strain, used, enterocytes, different, data


SL1027 and Thax-1. icin, which, under the conditions of these experiments, kills most of the organisms added to the system. It is hard to interpret the remaining tissue-associated organisms as being strain SLl027, no changes in the brush border and no organ- other than internalized in view of the differences observed isms were detected in the enterocytes. between the two groups of strains. Fourth, the numbers of organisms recovered are in line with what one might expect DISCUSSION from previous findings when tissue sections were examined by immunofluorescent-antibody techniques (see reference 22 for In this article, quantitative studies of the invasiveness of a data on TML and W118; comparable analyses [unpublished] gut pathogen made with functioning gut in vitro are described for noninvasive strains showveryfewsuch organisms). Fifth, in forthefirst time. Atotal of 13 experimentswere carried out on current (unpublished) studies, it has been shown by using different days in the organ culture apparatus, in which the antibiotic resistance-marked derivatives ofstrain TMLthatthe effects of varying the conditions on both the mucosal and numbers oforganisms recoveredwere nearlyidenticalwhether serosal sides of the tissue were examined. It had previously the homogenates were plated on plain or antibiotic-containing been shown in this laboratory, bothbyfunctional tests (16) and agar. byTEM (unpublished), that whenwhole segments ofneonatal Several pointsemerge from the resultsoftheseexperiments. mouse gutwere perfused at 4°C for 40 min with solution G on First, the SL1027 anomaly associated with the HEp-2 assay(3) both the mucosal and serosal sides, the tissue was remarkably was not found, and strain WAKEwasjust as invasive as either well preserved compared with similar preparations perfused at TML or W118, whereas in the HEp-2 cell assay itwas not (3). 37°C. Significant invasion would not be expected to occur Second, invasiveness (as in the HEp-2 cell system ) was under such restrictive conditions, since the uptake of S. determined at least in part by the batch of HDB medium in typhimurium isitselfan energy-requiringprocess (9).Attention which the organisms were grown. Analysis of such batches of was therefore directed towards designing systems for control- medium could provide important clues about the inductive ling fluid uptake which work at 37°C. mechanisms responsible for regulating full expression of the increasing the osmolarity ofthe serosal solution by additionof nents in HDB, a complex chemically undefined medium, are mannitol, but it was possible to control the influx ofwater by responsible. Third, therewassignificantinteranimalvariability, manipulating the sodium concentration on the mucosal side. the
