INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Feb. 1994, p. 569-578 Vol. 62, No. 2
KEYWORDS: tissue, strains, organisms, solution, fig, typhimurium, invasion, mucosal, tml, experiments, strain, used, enterocytes, different, data


HDB, a complex chemically undefined medium, are mannitol, but it was possible to control the influx ofwater by responsible. Third, therewassignificantinteranimalvariability, manipulating the sodium concentration on the mucosal side. the extreme case being that of experiment 5 (TML). This Complete elimination of Na+ and its replacement by choline experiment was included in this essentially methodological gave good tissue preservation for up to 3 h but not beyond. article in order to alert potential users of this possibility. We 576 AMIN ET AL. INFECT. IMMUN. VOL. 62, 1994 INVASION OF ILEAL MUCOSA BY S. 7YPHIMURIUM STRAINS 577 FIG. 8. TEMofrabbitilealmucosaeinfectedwithS. typhimurium TML.Thegeneralmorphologyofvilliremainedintactafter2hofincubation with bacteria. Organisms (arrowhead in panels a, b, andc) can be seen at different stagesofpenetration through the brush borderssingly(a and b) or in groups (c). Elongation ofmicrovilli is evident (a, arrow). (c) Bacteria in an incomplete vacuole. Bacteria appear singly (d, arrow) or in groups containedwithin vacuoles (e, arrow) inside enterocytes. Bars: a and b, 0.86 jum; c, 0.60 ,um; d, 0.63 ,um; e, 0.86 ,um. have never, over manyyears, been able to predict in advance, Finally, the datapresented in thisarticle establish (albeitfor by any criteria, which animals would be suitable for gut a limited number of strains) a correlation between the inva- invasion or fluid secretion experiments. Some animals are siveness and "gastroenteritic" virulence ofS. typhimurium. A nonresponders (intermsoffluidsecretion)orresistinvasionof number ofbiological sequelae to invasion ofintestinal epithe- gut epithelium. For these reasons, it is imperative to carry out lium by S. typhimurium are known, and one can postulate a number of experiments and not rely on data from one. about thepossible significance ofsuch events. Invasion maybe Fourth,while absolute invasivenessvaried, thepattern did not. involved inoneormoreofthefollowingways.First,ithasbeen This was clearly seen when the data for the avirulent strains suggested (14) that it may be necessary to deliver the Salmo- (Fig. 6) were normalized (Fig. 7): there is a clear distinction nella equivalent of the cholera toxin A fragment. Second, it between the three virulent strains and the four avirulent results in induction of the inflammatory response, the main strains. The difference between the two groups was quantita- cellular component ofwhich is polymorphonuclear leukocytes tive, notallornothing, suggestingthat itistheefficiencyrather (20); polymorphonuclear leukocytes in tissue may themselves than the mere fact of invasion which may be important in be the source of secretagogues. Third, polymorphonuclear disease causation. leukocytes extruded into the lumen may function as the Fifth, morphological evidence from TEM (Fig. 8) strongly biological
