INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Feb. 1994, p. 569-578 Vol. 62, No. 2
KEYWORDS: tissue, strains, organisms, solution, fig, typhimurium, invasion, mucosal, tml, experiments, strain, used, enterocytes, different, data


be important in be the source of secretagogues. Third, polymorphonuclear disease causation. leukocytes extruded into the lumen may function as the Fifth, morphological evidence from TEM (Fig. 8) strongly biological mechanism for releasing the cholera toxin-like Sal- suggests that themechanismsofinternalizationwere similarto monella toxin from toxin-bearing (but non-toxin-secreting) those already described for non-choline-treated gut (23). The bacteria, which then actsfrom the luminal side ofenterocytes. frequency of observation of such events was low but perhaps A fourth possibility is that invasion itself causes shedding of not altogether unexpected in view of the numbers ofbacteria bacteria-laden cells, the rapid replacement ofwhich results in interactingwithepithelialcells (see Materials andMethodsfor fluidsecretionfromthevillusbaseorcryptregion.Therelative calculations and underlying assumptions). meritsanddemeritsofthese ideasandpossible approachesfor Sixth, internalization of small aggregates of organisms as attempting to determine which, if any, are correct have been well as single organisms is another feature which deserves discussed extensively elsewhere (17). comment (Fig. 8c and d). This phenomenon is seen in tissue culturecells (3,6) andingutboth invivo (22) and invitro (23). Itisunlikelythatthephenomenon isafunctionofclumping, as ACKNOWLEDGMENTS care is taken to disperse the organisms in the inocula. It could We thank the Association of Commonwealth Universities for a be the invivo equivalent to the ruffle phenomenon (7) alluded scholarship to I.I.A. and the Medical Research Council forastudent- to above and areflection ofthephysiological state ofthe cells. ship to G.R.D. M.P.O. and J.S. acknowledge support from the emerging from the crypts, senesce, and are eventually shed. Birmingham. Normalvillustipsare relativelyhypoxic (8), and,basedondata from this group, it has been argued that oxygen levels play a REFERENCES role in the physiological control of enzyme expression in 1. Browning, T. H., and J. Trier. 1969. Organ culture of mucosal enterocytes (2). It is therefore possible that, under such biopsies ofhuman small intestine. J. Clin. Invest. 48:1423-1432. conditions, villus tip enterocytes become more susceptible to 2. Collins, J., D. C. A. Candy, W. G. Starkey, A. J. Spencer, M. P. invasion byS. typhimurium. Bylight microscopywith immuno- Osborne, andJ. Stephen. 1990. Disaccharidase activities in small intestine of rotavirus-infected suckling mice: a histochemical fluorescence techniques and direct electron microscopy, villus study. J. Pediatr. Gastroenterol. Nutr. 11:395-403. tipcells seem tobe preferentially invaded; we have never seen 3. Douce,G. R.,I. I.Amin,andJ. Stephen. 1991. Invasion ofHEp-2 invasion ofenterocytes located atvillusbasesorcrypts (23, 22; cellsbystrainsofSalmonellatyphimurium ofdifferentvirulence in this work). Others (5, 11, 15) have reported that Salmonella relation togastroenteritis. J. Med. Microbiol. 35:349-357. organisms are more invasivewhenboth hostcellsandbacterial 4. Embaye, H., R. M. Batt, J.
