NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, celiac, celiac disease, patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gfd, iga, nih-pa author, nih-pa, biopsy, prevalence, gluten, serologic


NIH Public Access Author Manuscript Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 March 22. Published in final edited form as: Gastroenterology. 2006 December ; 131(6): 1977–1980. doi:. Medical Position Statement on Celiac Disease * † § Alaa Rostom , Joseph A Murray , and Martin F. Kagnoff § Departments of Medicine and Pediatrics, the Wm. K Warren Medical Research Center for Celiac Celiac disease is a permanent intolerance to gluten, a term that is broadly used to describe the storage proteins in wheat, rye, and barley. Celiac disease is characterized by a chronic inflammatory state of the proximal small intestinal mucosa, which can impair digestion and absorption of macronutrients and micronutrients and results in increased net secretion of water and solute. Celiac disease can present with intestinal symptoms, can present with extraintestinal symptoms (including the intensely pruritic skin rash dermatitis herpetiformis), or may be detected in individuals who are asymptomatic as part of the screening of populations at increased risk for celiac disease. There is a spectrum of small intestinal mucosal injury that ranges from minimal with an increase in intraepithelial lymphocytes to total villous atrophy. However, most symptomatic patients with celiac disease have some degree of villous atrophy. The HLA class II DQ molecules DQ2 or DQ8 are necessary, although not sufficient, for the phenotypic expression of celiac disease. Pathogenesis Celiac disease is the result of an interplay that involves the host’s genetic makeup, immunologic factors, and derivatives of gluten from wheat, rye, and barley. Gluten and other proline-rich proteins are poorly digested in the normal human small intestinal tract due to a lack of prolyl endopeptidases. This results in the generation of gluten peptides that can be as large as 10–50 amino acids in length. Gluten is also rich in the amino acid glutamine. Some of the glutamines in the peptides generated in the small intestine can be deamidated by the enzyme tissue transglutaminase (tTG). This results in their conversion to negatively charged glutamic acid residues. Large peptides with a specific spacing of proline and glutamic acid may contain one or more sequences that are uniquely able to bind to the human HLA class II DQ2 molecules DQ2 and DQ8 on antigen-presenting cells with the ensuing activation of pathogenic populations of CD4+ T cells in the intestinal mucosa. The humoral immune response in celiac disease is directed both against the exogenous antigen gluten and against the autoantigen tTG.
