NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, celiac, celiac disease, patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gfd, iga, nih-pa author, nih-pa, biopsy, prevalence, gluten, serologic


pathogenic populations of CD4+ T cells in the intestinal mucosa. The humoral immune response in celiac disease is directed both against the exogenous antigen gluten and against the autoantigen tTG. The full role of tTG remains to be fully elucidated, and it may be involved in multiple levels of the immune response. Recent advances in understanding the adaptive immune response in 534-5691, Email: . Grant Support Dr. Kagnoff is supported by NIH grants DK35108, DK58960 and a grant from The William K. Warren Foundation. Dr Murray is supported by NIH grants DK 71003 and DK 57892 Publisher's Disclaimer: This is a PDF file of an unedited manuscript that has been accepted for publication. As a service to our customers we are providing this early version of the manuscript. The manuscript will undergo copyediting, typesetting, and review of the resulting proof before it is published in its final citable form. Please note that during the production process errors may be discovered which could affect the content, and all legal disclaimers that apply to the journal pertain. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript celiac disease herald the possibility of therapeutic targets that might provide an alternative to dietary exclusion of gluten. Less is known about the early mechanisms and initiating steps that lead to celiac disease. How and when gluten sensitivity and development of autoimmunity first occur is unknown. It has been hypothesized that, at least in some individuals, an insult such as an enteric infection or recent surgery may result in compromised epithelial barrier function and the initiation of intestinal inflammation. Early introduction of cereals into the infant diet before 3 months may be associated with an increased risk of developing childhood celiac disease, but there is no evidence that delaying the introduction of gluten into the diet of children at high risk for celiac disease beyond the 3- to 6-month period is beneficial. Epidemiology The general population prevalence of celiac disease in the United States is approximately 1:100 (1%), with a reasonable range of 1:80 to 1:140 (1.25% to 0.71%). Most cases remain undiagnosed until later in life. Clinicians should have a heightened suspicion that celiac disease may be present at any age in both sexes and in a wide variety of clinical circumstances. High-Risk Populations Relatives—First-degree relatives of patients with celiac disease are at higher risk for biopsy- confirmed celiac disease than those in the general
