NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, celiac, celiac disease, patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gfd, iga, nih-pa author, nih-pa, biopsy, prevalence, gluten, serologic


in a wide variety of clinical circumstances. High-Risk Populations Relatives—First-degree relatives of patients with celiac disease are at higher risk for biopsy- confirmed celiac disease than those in the general population, with a prevalence of ~10%. However, this may be higher if lesser histologic grades of change (ie, only an increase in intraepithelial lymphocytes) are also considered to represent celiac disease. The highest prevalence of celiac disease occurs in families with more than one affected relative, while the prevalence in second-degree relatives is lower (2.6%–5.5%) but still exceeds that in the general population. Iron Deficiency Anemia—The prevalence of celiac disease in individuals with unexplained iron deficiency anemia (IDA) is increased irrespective of whether patients have gastrointestinal symptoms. Celiac disease should be considered in any adult with unexplained IDA, including menstruating women. In patients with asymptomatic IDA evaluated by serologic testing, the prevalence of presumed celiac disease ranges from ~2 to 5%, whereas in endoscopic studies the prevalence of celiac disease in those with asymptomatic celiac disease is ~3% to 9%. The prevalence is still higher in symptomatic patients with IDA (~10% to 15%). Duodenal biopsy specimens should be obtained from patients with IDA presenting for upper intestinal endoscopy. Osteoporosis and Bone Demineralization—The prevalence of celiac disease may be increased in patients with osteoporosis (~1.5% to 3%), especially in those with premature osteoporosis or osteomalacia. Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus—The prevalence of celiac disease in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus ranges from 2% to 5% in adults and from 3% to 8% in children. Clinicians caring for patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus should be aware of this association and consider testing for celiac disease if symptoms occur. Moreover, duodenal biopsies should be considered if patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus present for upper endoscopy. Liver Disease—The prevalence of celiac disease in patients with elevated transaminase levels of unknown cause range from 1.5% and 9.0%, from 2.9% to 6.4% in patients with autoimmune hepatitis, and from 0% to 6.0% in those with primary biliary cirrhosis. Evidence for an increased prevalence of celiac disease is not as strong for primary sclerosing cholangitis or nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Clinicians should be aware of these associations and have Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 March 22. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript a low threshold for testing for coexistent celiac disease in patients with unexplained elevated transaminase levels, autoimmune hepatitis,
