NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, celiac, celiac disease, patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gfd, iga, nih-pa author, nih-pa, biopsy, prevalence, gluten, serologic


2010 March 22. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript a low threshold for testing for coexistent celiac disease in patients with unexplained elevated transaminase levels, autoimmune hepatitis, and primary sclerosing cholangitis. Some reports suggest that tTGA may be falsely elevated in advanced liver disease. This was more marked when earlier-generation tests for tTG antibodies (tTGA) used guinea pig rather than human TG. Genetic Disorders—The prevalence of celiac disease in patients with Down syndrome ranges from 3% to 12%, with an estimate of presumptive celiac disease of ~8% by serologic testing and an estimate of confirmed celiac disease of 5.5% by biopsy. This indicates that the risk of celiac disease in patients with Down syndrome is at least 5 times that of the general population. As in the general population, celiac disease in patients with Down syndrome is restricted to those with HLA-DQ2 or -DQ8, although the prevalence of HLA-DQ2 and -DQ8 is not known to be increased in patients with Down syndrome. HLA typing can be useful to help exclude the possibility of the future development of celiac disease in patients with Down syndrome. The prevalence of celiac disease in patients with Turner’s syndrome also appears to be higher than in the general population, with a range of 2%–10% and a pooled estimate from varying studies of 6.3%. Celiac disease in patients with Turner’s syndrome is also restricted to those with DQ2 or DQ8. The prevalence of celiac disease may also be increased in patients with Williams syndrome, although limited data are available. Autoimmune Thyroid Disease—The prevalence of celiac disease in patients with autoimmune thyroid disease varies between 1.5% to 6.7%, with a pooled estimate from varying studies of biopsy-confirmed celiac disease of 3.0%. There is no compelling rationale for the routine screening of patients with thyroid disease for celiac disease in the absence of symptoms suggesting or compatible with celiac disease. Reproductive Disorders—Celiac disease is associated with reproductive complications, including delayed menarche, fewer live births, and higher rates of miscarriage. The prevalence of celiac disease ranged between 2.1% and 4.1% in women with unexplained infertility. Intervention with a gluten-free diet (GFD) improves fertility. Other Diseases—Celiac disease has also been associated with other diseases and disorders, including Addison’s disease, immunoglobulin (Ig) A nephropathy, idiopathic epilepsy, occipital calcifications, and ataxia. The increased prevalence of celiac disease in several autoimmune disorders (eg, Sjögren’s syndrome) appears to be based on
