NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, celiac, celiac disease, patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gfd, iga, nih-pa author, nih-pa, biopsy, prevalence, gluten, serologic


Addison’s disease, immunoglobulin (Ig) A nephropathy, idiopathic epilepsy, occipital calcifications, and ataxia. The increased prevalence of celiac disease in several autoimmune disorders (eg, Sjögren’s syndrome) appears to be based on shared HLA susceptibility genes. Conclusion—It is the position of the American Gastroenterological Association that testing for celiac disease should be considered in symptomatic individuals who are at particularly high risk. These include those with unexplained IDA, a premature onset of osteoporosis, Down syndrome, unexplained elevations in liver transaminase levels, primary biliary cirrhosis, and autoimmune hepatitis. Situations in which testing for celiac disease should be selectively considered during the medical evaluation, especially if symptoms that could be the result of celiac disease are present, include type 1 diabetes mellitus, autoimmune thyroid disease, Sjögren’s syndrome, unexplained recurrent fetal loss, unexplained delayed puberty, selective IgA deficiency, irritable bowel syndrome, Turner’s syndrome, peripheral neuropathy, cerebellar ataxia, and recurrent migraine, as well as children with short stature and first- and second-degree relatives of patients with celiac disease. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 March 22. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript Diagnosis Diagnostic tests should be performed before the initiation of gluten restriction begins. Positive serologic test results may resolve and histologic findings may improve with the removal of gluten from the diet. The initial detection of possible celiac disease is probably best obtained by the use of a simple and accurate serologic test: the IgA tTGA. Serologic Testing The diagnostic approach to detecting celiac disease has undergone important changes in recent years. Serologic tests, particularly the IgA antiendomysial antibody (EMA) and the IgA tTGA, have become a relatively sensitive and specific way to initially detect celiac disease. The IgA tTGA is both sensitive and specific for celiac disease and supplants the use of gliadin antibody testing as the preferred means of serologic detection. Overall, many studies demonstrate a specificity of IgA tTGA greater than 95% and a sensitivity in the range of 90%–96%. The EMA detected by an indirect immunofluorescence assay is more time consuming and operator dependent than the tTGA. It has a slightly lower and variable sensitivity but an excellent specificity (99.6%). IgA antigliadin antibody by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay predates the previously described serologic tests, but its diagnostic performance compared with IgA tTGA and IgA EMA is not attractive. The prevalence of IgA deficiency in celiac disease is sufficiently low, such that the routine measurement of serum IgA
