NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, celiac, celiac disease, patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gfd, iga, nih-pa author, nih-pa, biopsy, prevalence, gluten, serologic


performance compared with IgA tTGA and IgA EMA is not attractive. The prevalence of IgA deficiency in celiac disease is sufficiently low, such that the routine measurement of serum IgA levels along with IgA EMA or tTGA is not warranted as a first step toward diagnosis unless IgA deficiency is strongly suspected. In cases of selective IgA deficiency, either the IgG EMA and/or IgG tTGA have excellent sensitivity and specificity, although those IgG-based tests are markedly less sensitive and specific than the IgA-based tests in those with normal levels of IgA. Measurement of the serum IgA level is an appropriate next step in individuals with a negative IgA EMA or IgA tTGA in whom celiac disease is still suspected. If celiac disease is strongly suspected despite negative serologic test results, one can test for the presence of the disease-associated HLA alleles and, if present, proceed to small intestinal mucosal biopsy. Alternatively, it is reasonable to proceed directly to upper intestinal endoscopy and small bowel biopsy if the signs and symptoms that suggested celiac disease would otherwise warrant those procedures. Conclusion—In the primary care setting, the IgA tTGA is the most efficient single serologic test for the detection of celiac disease. Evidence indicates that the additional inclusion of IgG antigliadin antibody and IgA antigliadin antibody are not warranted. Intestinal Biopsy Positive serologic test results are supportive of the diagnosis of celiac disease. Distal duodenal biopsy specimens demonstrating characteristic histologic changes in the small intestinal mucosa that includes a spectrum of change from total to partial villous atrophy, crypt lengthening with an increase in lamina propria, and intraepithelial lymphocytes remain the gold standard for establishing the diagnosis of celiac disease. An increase in intraepithelial lymphocytes without architectural changes may represent latent celiac disease or a part of the spectrum of gluten-sensitive enteropathy but should not be considered diagnostic of celiac disease. It is important to take multiple (ideally 6) biopsy specimens and best to obtain these from the second part of the duodenum or beyond because mucosal changes can be patchy or Brunner’s glands or peptic changes may hamper histopathologic examination if biopsy specimens are obtained from the duodenal bulb. Gluten challenge and a repeat biopsy are no longer required to establish the diagnosis of celiac disease in patients whose initial small intestinal biopsy specimen has the characteristic histologic appearance and in whom an objective response to a GFD is obtained. However,
