NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, celiac, celiac disease, patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gfd, iga, nih-pa author, nih-pa, biopsy, prevalence, gluten, serologic


the diagnosis of celiac disease in patients whose initial small intestinal biopsy specimen has the characteristic histologic appearance and in whom an objective response to a GFD is obtained. However, a gluten challenge with a subsequent biopsy Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 March 22. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript suspicion for celiac disease and a negative serologic test result and who started on a GFD without biopsy confirmation of the disease). It is crucial that the dietary status of the patient at the time of biopsy be taken into account. Patients should undergo biopsy promptly after obtaining a positive serologic test result and should be instructed not to avoid gluten until after biopsy specimens are obtained. A gluten-reduced diet may reduce the severity of the lesion and impact pathologic interpretation. How long gluten must be reintroduced before biopsy specimens are taken can vary among individuals already on a GFD. A 4-week challenge with sufficient gluten to reproduce the symptoms is adequate in most. However, some patients may have very delayed responses, and it can take up to several years for relapse to occur. Reaching a definitive diagnosis can be difficult in those with minimal histologic findings, in those with a negative serologic test result, or if the disease is patchy or an insufficient number of poorly oriented biopsy specimens were taken. There are other disease entities that can resemble celiac disease histologically. Most of these entities are either rare in the developed careful review of the biopsy samples. Endoscopy provides a ready opportunity to examine the duodenal mucosa visually and to obtain a sufficient number of biopsy specimens. However, the visual examination of the small bowel mucosa is not entirely sensitive for identifying villous atrophy, although endoscopists should be aware of the visual appearance of villous atrophy. Endoscopists should not regard the absence of visual endoscopic features of celiac disease as sufficient to rule out the diagnosis. Use of HLA-DQ2 and -DQ8 to Exclude the Diagnosis of Celiac Disease Approximately 40% of the general population in the United States have either the HLA class II heterodimer HLA-DQ2 or HLA-DQ8, which reflects the presence of the DQ alleles DQA1*05 and DQB1*02 (DQ2) or DQA1*03 and DQB1*0302 (DQ8). However, almost all patients with celiac disease have either DQ2 (~95% of patients with celiac disease) or DQ8 (~5% of patients with celiac disease). A very small number
