NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, celiac, celiac disease, patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gfd, iga, nih-pa author, nih-pa, biopsy, prevalence, gluten, serologic


DQB1*0302 (DQ8). However, almost all patients with celiac disease have either DQ2 (~95% of patients with celiac disease) or DQ8 (~5% of patients with celiac disease). A very small number of patients with celiac disease have been noted to have only DQA1*O5 or DQB1*02, the latter usually being associated with HLA- DR7 heterozygosity or homozygosity. Because virtually all patients with celiac disease have the celiac disease-associated alleles mentioned previously at the DQA1 and DQB1 loci, the absence of these alleles provides a negative predictive value for the disease of close to 100% (ie, if individuals lack the relevant disease-associated alleles, celiac disease is virtually excluded). HLA testing for the relevant DQ alleles can be a useful adjunct in an exclusionary sense when the diagnosis based on other tests is not clear. When using HLA testing in the context of disease susceptibility in families, one must have the resources available to provide genetic counseling. Treatment Treatment of celiac disease requires a strict, lifelong adherence to a GFD. This is also the case for patients with dermatitis herpetiformis. Clinicians need to ensure that patients have adequate education, motivation, and support to achieve this diet. Consultation with an experienced Treatment of nutritional deficiency states (eg, iron, folate, vitamin B ) is essential, and a determination of bone mineral density to assess for osteoporosis is recommended. Promoting Adherence to a GFD Changes in dietary habits are difficult to maintain, and there are many barriers to continued compliance with a GFD. Improved knowledge of celiac disease, the GFD, gluten-containing Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 March 22. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript food products, and outcomes of untreated celiac disease would likely improve compliance. Membership in a local celiac society provides patients with celiac disease with improved knowledge regarding their disease, the intricacies of the GFD, and also emotional and social support opportunities. Follow-up is necessary to confirm the diagnosis by an objective response to a GFD and to detect and manage noncompliance. Patients with celiac disease should be evaluated at regular intervals by a health care team including a physician and a dietician. These visits can be used to assess, by history, a patient’s compliance with a GFD and to reinforce the importance of such compliance. Beyond this, there are no clear guidelines as to the optimal means to monitor adherence to a GFD. In general, monitoring adherence to
