NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, celiac, celiac disease, patients, manuscript, author, author manuscript, gfd, iga, nih-pa author, nih-pa, biopsy, prevalence, gluten, serologic


to reinforce the importance of such compliance. Beyond this, there are no clear guidelines as to the optimal means to monitor adherence to a GFD. In general, monitoring adherence to a GFD with serologies (ie, tTGA or EMA) is sensitive for major but not for minor transient dietary indiscretions. In children, histologic improvement on a GFD appears to occur quickly, while in adults the small intestinal mucosa heals more slowly and less completely. Monitoring adherence by clinic visits and serologic testing appears to be a reasonable approach in children. In adults, this approach is also reasonable with the understanding that a negative serologic test result does not necessarily mean improvement beyond severe subtotal or total villous atrophy. Expected Benefits of a GFD Compliance with a GFD is likely protective against the development of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma in celiac disease and dermatitis herpetiformis. There is compelling evidence that treatment of symptomatic celiac disease results in substantial improvement in nutritional parameters. The treatment of celiac disease with a GFD can result in improvements in bone mineral density, with the greatest improvements appearing in the first years of the GFD. Treatment with a GFD for at least 12 months can result in increased body weight, body mass index, fat mass, bone mass, triceps skin fold thickness, and nutritional and biochemical status including iron absorption. Patients adhering to a strict GFD usually consume fewer calories than noncompliers but show a trend toward greater improvements in measurements of body composition. The benefits of a GFD on short-term outcomes in diabetic patients with celiac disease are inconclusive. It suggests that nutritional parameters can improve but no convincing change in diabetic control has been demonstrated, although insulin requirements often increase. Nonresponsive Celiac Disease Patients with known celiac disease can continue to have or can redevelop symptoms despite being on a GFD. These symptoms may be due to incompletely healed celiac disease, an associated condition, a complication, or a second unrelated diagnosis. Persistent or intermittent symptoms due to known or inadvertent ingestion of gluten are commonly reported. If gluten ingestion is not suggested by direct review of the dietary history or positive serologic test result, then a careful search should be undertaken for other entities such as microscopic colitis, pancreatic exocrine insufficiency, bacterial overgrowth, and disaccharidase deficiency. Intestinal lymphoma, small bowel strictures, or true refractory sprue should be considered in the absence of these and in persistently febrile or
