Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


ABSTRACT Congenital hypopituitarism refers to a deficiency of one or more pituitary hormones resulting from issues in fetal development. Embryological pituitary development involves a complex interplay of transcription factors, extrinsic and intrinsic to the oral ectoderm and neuroectoderm which develop to form the mature pituitary during early embryogenesis. Disruption of this process can result in isolated pituitary dysfunction, or effect nearby structures, such as the eye, olfactory bulbs, midline structures, and forebrain. Genetic causes make up an important portion of cases and have varying phenotypes even within identical mutations. This chapter provides an overview of pituitary development, and various causes of hypopituitarism including septo-optic dysplasia, syndromic and non-syndromic causes, isolated pituitary deficiencies, and syndromes associated with hypopituitarism. It also provides guidance on the investigation of genetic causes of hypopituitarism in the current genetic landscape. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The pituitary gland can be thought of as the “hormonal control center” from which most endocrine organs are regulated. It is located in the sella turcica, posterior to the sphenoid sinus, inferior to the optic chiasm and the hypothalamus. The pituitary comprises 3 lobes, the anterior, intermediate and posterior. The posterior lobe or neurohypophysis contains antidiuretic hormone (ADH or AVP) and oxytocin, contained in vesicles, as part of axonal projections from hypothalamic cells, known as the hypothalamic-hypophyseal tract. The intermediate lobe contains melanotrophs which produce alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (αMSH), although in humans is typically an embryological remnant and may not be present. The anterior lobe or adenohypophysis contains 5 cell lines, producing 6 different hormones regulated by hypothalamic hormones via the hypophyseal portal system. Somatotrophs produce growth hormone (GH) while lactotrophs produce prolactin making up the somatomammotroph class of hormones. The glycoprotein hormone class consists of hormones with identical alpha subunits and different beta subunits, with thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) produced by thyrotroph cells, and gonadotroph cells producing follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). Corticotroph cells produce adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH). Growth hormone mediates its effect through induction of insulin like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) from the liver and is critical for linear growth in the child. Prolactin stimulates development of the mammary gland and lactation and is typically quiescent outside of pregnancy or childrearing. TSH stimulates production of thyroid hormone from the thyroid gland, which regulates metabolic rate and is critical for growth and cognitive development
