Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


is typically quiescent outside of pregnancy or childrearing. TSH stimulates production of thyroid hormone from the thyroid gland, which regulates metabolic rate and is critical for growth and cognitive development in early childhood. FSH and LH support gonadal development, production of testosterone or estrogen, and maturation of gamete cells. ACTH stimulates production of cortisol which is an essential stress hormone and ADH regulates plasma osmolality by inducing resorption of water in the collecting duct of the kidney. Congenital hypopituitarism refers to a deficiency of one or more pituitary hormones resulting from events during fetal development. This may be the result of genetic mutation, antenatal insult, or as is commonly the case, be idiopathic. Pituitary deficiencies may be detected during the neonatal period; however, in some individuals’ pituitary deficiencies may not manifest until later in childhood. Furthermore, the severity can be variable. Hypopituitarism may be isolated, affecting one cell line (isolated hormone deficiency), or multiple, termed combined or multiple pituitary hormone deficiency (CPHD, MPHD). Pan-hypopituitarism is typically used to describe deficiency of all anterior pituitary hormones; however, in some cases this term may also include the presence of AVP deficiency. AVP (or ADH) deficiency is termed as central diabetes insipidus (DI) but is undergoing a formal process to change the name to AVP deficiency. The new name is preferred as it highlights both etiology and treatment, while avoiding confusion with diabetes mellitus. AVP deficiency may coexist with other deficiency’s or be isolated. The incidence of isolated growth hormone deficiency (IGHD) is reportedly 1 in 4000 live births ( 3 ), with CPHD also seen in 1 in 4000 live births ( 4 ), thus presenting an uncommon but important chronic condition. Embryological pituitary development involves a complex interplay of transcription factors, extrinsic and intrinsic to the oral ectoderm and neuroectoderm which develop to form the mature pituitary. Disorders occurring during early development may affect nearby structures commonly the eye, olfactory bulbs, midline structures, and forebrain, whereas later events are typically isolated to pituitary abnormalities. Transcription factor gene defects have been demonstrated to cause different biochemical and structural forms of congenital hypopituitarism, although the majority of cases remain idiopathic. There is considerable phenotypic variability within known genetic causes of hypopituitarism, with some forms having incomplete penetrance, and presentation ranging from asymptomatic, to severe neonatal onset forms. This review discusses the clinical phenotypes of various genetic anomalies associated with hypopituitarism. Clinical manifestations and
