Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


forms having incomplete penetrance, and presentation ranging from asymptomatic, to severe neonatal onset forms. This review discusses the clinical phenotypes of various genetic anomalies associated with hypopituitarism. Clinical manifestations and investigation of hypopituitarism are discussed in the “Hypopituitarism” chapter of Endotext. This chapter will present an overview of the embryology of pituitary development before discussing the genetic causes of hypopituitarism. It will firstly discuss genes that cause septo-optic dysplasia, before discussing genes that cause other clinical phenotypes and hypopituitarism. After describing the genes associated with non-syndromic hypopituitarism, and isolated hormone deficiencies we will discuss other syndromes where hypopituitarism may be part of the phenotype. Each gene is described within the subheading that they most typically present; however, due to phenotypic variability some genes can present in multiple categories. For example, PROKR2 mutation classically causes isolated hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism, but can result in non-syndromic CPHD or septo-optic dysplasia in some cases ( 5 - 8 ). The information within this review is up to date as of May 2022; however, understanding of these genes continues to progress. Figure 1. Stages of rodent pituitary development. (a) Oral ectoderm. (b) Rudimentary pouch. (c) Definitive pouch. (d) Adult pituitary gland. I infundibulum; NP neural plate; N notochord; PP pituitary placode; OM oral membrane; H heart; F forebrain; MB midbrain; HB hindbrain; RP Rathke's pouch; AN anterior neural pore; O oral cavity; PL posterior lobe; OC optic chiasm; P pontine flexure; PO pons; IL intermediate lobe; AL anterior lobe; DI diencephalon; SC sphenoid cartilage. Adapted from Sheng and Westphal, Trends in Genetics 1999;15:236-240, with permission (licence number: 5420490065848” ( 2 ). EMBRYOLOGY Pituitary gland development is classically expressed based on timing with murine development. The pituitary gland forms from the hypophyseal placode on the anterior neural ridge of the neural plate (evident embryonic (E) day 7.5 in the mouse model). Ventral displacement leads to the formation of the oral ectoderm and the roof of the mouth. A portion of this ectoderm thickens (E8.5) before invaginating rostrally at E9. At E9.5, corresponding with 4 weeks gestation, this migrates dorsally resulting in a cone shape, known as the rudimentary Rathke’s pouch. This continues to thicken with increased rostral mitosis spreading into the mesenchyme. Following ongoing proliferation, it separates from the oral ectoderm at E12.5 (approximately 6 weeks gestation). Hormonal cell progenitors arise from ventral proliferation forming the anterior pituitary. ( Figure 1 ) The somatotrophs arise caudomedially, gonadotrophs
