Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


from the oral ectoderm at E12.5 (approximately 6 weeks gestation). Hormonal cell progenitors arise from ventral proliferation forming the anterior pituitary. ( Figure 1 ) The somatotrophs arise caudomedially, gonadotrophs rostroventrally and corticotrophs ventrally. The dorsal aspect later adjoins the descending infundibulum and remains thin (Intermediate lobe) ( 9 ). Throughout this process the tissue is in contact with the neural plate neuroectoderm, at the base of the developing diencephalon. This neuroectoderm evaginates and progress dorsally to form the posterior pituitary. The tissue immediately ventral to this evagination forms the optic chiasm. The diencephalon develops throughout this process to form the hypothalamus ( 9 ). The olfactory placode forms immediately lateral to the hypophyseal placode on the neural plate. These cells form the olfactory bulb but also the GnRH secreting cells which migrate to the forebrain from 6 weeks gestation, progressing to the hypothalamus by week 15. Axons from these cells extend into the hypothalamic portal system allowing regulation of gonadotroph cells ( 10 - 12 ). The optic nerve origin and optic chiasm develop from the neuroectoderm immediately anterior to the posterior pituitary, which has a complex interplay with some causes of hypopituitarism ( 13 ). Correlation of pituitary development in mice to humans is difficult. Whilst pluripotent stem cells have been induced to form hypothalamic and anterior pituitary cells, the complex interplay of transcription factors, as well as interaction from other anatomical structures, mean these methods cannot give us a clear timeline in humans ( 14 ). Historical embryo samples demonstrate the formation of Rathke’s pouch by week 4, with interruption of connection to the oral cavity by week 6 with the anterior pituitary fully differentiated by 16 weeks ( 15 ). Using hormone expression to correlate these two embryonic timelines, humans start producing GH, FSH, LH and ACTH at 8 weeks gestation, with TSH and prolactin at 13 weeks ( 9 ). Somatotrophs make up 50% of the cellular composition of the anterior pituitary, with 15-20% of cells being lactotrophs, 5% thyrotropes, 10-15% gonadotrophs and 15-20% corticotrophs ( 16 ) ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. Structural development of pituitary. Lateral representation of process of oral and neuroectoderm folding. Cross-sectional representation of hormone producing pituitary cell groups. Adapted from Larkin S. et al, Endotext ( 1 ). Various transcription factors are involved in coordinating these processes and gene mutation can result in underdevelopment or arrest of pituitary
