Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


Adapted from Larkin S. et al, Endotext ( 1 ). Various transcription factors are involved in coordinating these processes and gene mutation can result in underdevelopment or arrest of pituitary development. Figure 3 summarizes the temporal expression of various transcription factors within the pituitary. Abnormalities in genes expressed early in development such as SOX2, HESX1 and GLI2 more frequently effect other nearby structures, whereas those expressed later such as PROP1 and POU1F1 typically have localized effects. Transcription factors may be induced, upregulated or downregulated by multiple other transcription factors and the degree and site of expression can vary across the embryological development. For a diagrammatic overview of the role each transcription factor plays in pituitary development please see Figure 1 of the 2020 JCEM review by Gregory L and Dattani M ( 4 ). Figure 3. Timing of gene expression of transcription factors implicated in combined hypopituitarism. Disruptions to this cascade of transcription factors causes a range of structural phenotypes, varying from a normal pituitary appearance, to anterior pituitary hypoplasia or agenesis. The infundibulum/pituitary stalk may be thin or absent and the posterior pituitary may be hypoplastic, absent, or ectopic. The combination of anterior pituitary hypoplasia (APH), infundibular thinning/absence, and ectopic posterior pituitary (EPP), is known as pituitary stalk interruption syndrome (PSIS) ( Figure 4 ). Figure 4. Lateral appearance of structural pituitary phenotypes. Adapted from Larkin et al, Endotext ( 1 ). SEPTO-OPTIC DYSPLASIA Septo-optic dysplasia (SOD) is defined by the presence of two or more of: optic nerve hypoplasia, hypopituitarism, and midline defects (agenesis of the corpus callosum or septum pellucidum) forming a clinical triad. SOD is a rare condition with incidence estimates between 1 in 9,000 to 1 in 40,000 ( 17 , 18 ). The association between hypopituitarism and optic nerve hypoplasia relates to the embryological origin of the optic chiasm being immediately anterior to the infundibular tissue, thus an insult at this location can interrupt both pathways. The phenotype is highly variable even in familial SOD ( 13 ). Although several genetic causes have been identified, these make up less than 10% of cases of SOD, and are summarized in Table 1 ( 19 ). Septo-optic dysplasia is commonly seen in young primiparous mothers ( 20 ) and while antenatal exposure to alcohol and drug use have been suggested, there is a lack of evidence to support causality ( 21 ). Optic nerve hypoplasia (ONH)
