Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


20 ) and while antenatal exposure to alcohol and drug use have been suggested, there is a lack of evidence to support causality ( 21 ). Optic nerve hypoplasia (ONH) is typically bilateral (80-90%) with midline defects typically being septum pellucidum (85%) or corpus callosum (30%) hypoplasia or aplasia ( 21 ). 55-80% of cases have pituitary hormone deficiency, with growth hormone (GHD) and TSH deficiency (TSHD) being the most common deficiencies, followed by ACTH. Diabetes insipidus and hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism (HH) are found in less than 30% of hormone deficient cases ( 22 - 25 ). Approximately half of these hormone deficiencies are detected in the first 2 years of life and can present with severe neonatal hypoglycemia and cardiovascular instability, with the remainder of cases presenting across childhood to adolescence. The degree of deficiency is also noted to progress over time ( 22 ). Children with SOD typically have at least some degree of visual impairment, with 44- 80% being legally blind ( 22 , 26 ), while epilepsy and behavioral issues can be seen in approximately a quarter of patients, and cognitive impairment in 42.5% ( 22 ). Recently, 31% of cases were found to be obese despite therapy, suggesting the contribution of hypothalamic obesity ( 22 ). HESX1 HESX1 is a member of the paired-like class of homeobox genes, located on chromosome 3p14.3 with autosomal dominant and recessive mutations described, making up approximately 1% of septo-optic dysplasia cases ( 19 , 27 ). It appears from E8.5 through to E13.5 in the ventral diencephalon and oral ectoderm ( 28 ). HESX1 regulates the structural organization of the pituitary and interacts with the infundibulum and surrounding tissues through repressing transcription. Murine studies suggest absence typically does not prevent Rathke’s pouch/anterior pituitary formation (5%) but can result in polypituitary. It is suggested HESX1 regulates the regional expression of LHX3, PROP1, FGF8 and FGF10, preventing excessive expansion of the pituitary ( 19 ). HESX1 is upregulated by OTX2 and LHX3 transcription factors while being repressed by FGF8 and PROP1 ( 28 , 29 ). Dattani et al. described a sibling pair with consanguineous parents, with a homozygous (R160C) HESX1 mutation in the late 1990’s. The SOD phenotype comprised optic nerve hypoplasia, midline defects (absent corpus callosum (CC) and septum pellucidum (SP)), ectopic posterior pituitary and anterior pituitary hypoplasia with hypopituitarism ( 30 ). Subsequent reports indicate that HESX1 mutation results
