Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


hypoplasia, midline defects (absent corpus callosum (CC) and septum pellucidum (SP)), ectopic posterior pituitary and anterior pituitary hypoplasia with hypopituitarism ( 30 ). Subsequent reports indicate that HESX1 mutation results in the complete SOD triad in approximately 30% of cases with ophthalmic changes including anophthalmia, microphthalmia, optic nerve hypoplasia and optic nerve aplasia ( 28 , 31 ). The majority of HESX1 pathogenic variants manifest GHD, with variability in deficiency of the other anterior hormones and ADH deficiency being uncommon. MRI appearance varies from normal to posterior pituitary ectopia and anterior pituitary hypoplasia in affected individuals ( 19 ). It is also associated with hypoplastic nasal cavities/olfactory bulbs and underdevelopment of the forebrain ( 28 ). Autosomal dominant forms typically cause a milder phenotype, with undescended posterior pituitary and GHD, but phenotype-genotype correlation is poor ( 19 ). Penetrance is variable with asymptomatic parents and siblings being reported and midline defects and optic nerve anomalies absent in some cases ( 31 , 32 ). Testing of 217 patients with Kallmann syndrome (hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism (HH) and anosmia) revealed 1.4% had a mutation of HESX1 and normal pituitary on imaging ( 33 ). SOX2 SOX2 and SOX3 are from the SOX (SRY-related high mobility group HMG Box) family of transcription factors and are both single exon genes that are expressed early in development and decline as cells differentiate. SOX 2 is located on chromosome 3q26.33 with autosomal dominant expression and cause 10-15% of microphthalmia and anophthalmia cases ( 19 , 34 ). SOX2 is expressed during the morula stage, E2.5 but from gastrulation is restricted to the presumptive neuroectoderm, and E9.5 is found in the brain, CNS, sensory placodes, in the branchial arches, esophagus and trachea ( 28 ). At E11.5 it is expressed throughout Rathke’s pouch but from E18.5 is restricted to the intermediate lobe ( 35 ). In humans it is expressed within the developing anterior pituitary from weeks 3.5-9 and in the diencephalon but not in the neurohypophysis or infundibulum ( 19 ). In 2006 Williamson et al. described heterozygous de novo mutations of SOX2 causing bilateral anophthalmia or severe microphthalmia associated with developmental delay, esophageal atresia and genital anomalies ( 36 ). Later that year, Kelberman et al. reported the association of SOX2 with HH, GHD and anterior pituitary hypoplasia ( 37 ). A cohort of 18 participants with SOX2 mutation showed 33% (6/18) had short stature or
