Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


reported the association of SOX2 with HH, GHD and anterior pituitary hypoplasia ( 37 ). A cohort of 18 participants with SOX2 mutation showed 33% (6/18) had short stature or GHD, and 44% (8/18) had genital anomalies or hypogonadism ( 38 ). Alongside hypoplastic anterior pituitary, hypothalamic hamartomas and corpus callosum abnormalities are often seen, as are hippocampus anomalies, sensorineural hearing loss, learning difficulties and cognitive impairment. The vast majority have anophthalmia in at least one eye, but milder cases have microphthalmia, coloboma and optic nerve hypoplasia, with normal ocular structures seen very rarely ( 34 ). SOX2 mutations are associated with esophageal/tracheal abnormalities and underdeveloped genitalia known as Anophthalmia-Esophageal-Genital (AEG) syndrome. Micropenis and cryptorchidism are commonly seen, and while genital anomalies are noted less commonly in females, they can be severe, with some cases having vaginal agenesis ( 28 ). Anophthalmia or microphthalmia with esophageal abnormalities, sensorineural hearing loss or GHD and HH should raise the question of a SOX2 mutation for a clinician. Given the autosomal dominant inheritance, detection would be critical for family planning for both the patient and their parents. SOX3 SOX3 gene is found at Xq27 causing X-linked recessive inheritance found to cause 0.2% of all GH deficient cases ( 28 , 39 ). SOX3 is expressed throughout the central nervous system during embryonic development. It is first expressed at E6.5 but is rapidly restricted to the anterior ectoderm, and to the presumptive neuroectoderm. It is highly expressed in the infundibulum and presumptive hypothalamus but not in Rathke’s pouch ( 28 ). SOX3 supports development of the hypothalamus and infundibulum as well as the development of the AP. Absence results in thinning of the infundibulum, which is thought to reduce expression of other genes involved with supporting pituitary proliferation. As a result, Rathke’s pouch is initially expanded but eventually the anterior pituitary becomes hypoplastic. It is important in confining the expression of FGF8 and BMP4, preventing excessive activity. Interestingly, duplications of SOX3 are also associated with similar phenotypes to those with non-functional mutations (typically polyalanine expansions). This suggests that correct dose of SOX3 is required for optimal embryonic development ( 28 ). In 2002, Laumonnier et al. described a boy with IGHD and learning difficulties associated with a SOX3 mutation ( 40 ). Subsequently, GHD has been found in affected males and is associated with developmental delay or cognitive impairment of varying severity. One family
