Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


associated with a SOX3 mutation ( 40 ). Subsequently, GHD has been found in affected males and is associated with developmental delay or cognitive impairment of varying severity. One family of 5 affected females with short stature and language/ hearing impairment has been described ( 28 ). Other concurrent pituitary hormone deficiencies are present with variable frequency with panhypopituitarism described in some cases ( 28 ). MRI findings include absent corpus callosum and absent or hypoplastic infundibulum and ectopic posterior pituitary, with cognitive impairment and learning difficulties also reported. SOX3 is not associated with optic nerve hypoplasia and has not been reported in patients with the complete SOD triad. Craniofacial abnormalities were reported frequently in murine models but are rare in human populations and 1 case of spina bifida has been reported ( 28 ). Patients with an x-linked pattern of inheritance, and isolated GHD or CPHD should raise clinical suspicion for SOX3 mutation. OTX2 Orthodentic Homeobox 2 (OTX2) is critical for anterior structure development and forebrain maintenance ( 28 ). It is located on chromosome 14q22.3 with an autosomal dominant inheritance that has been detected in 2-3% of cases of anophthalmia/microphthalmia and can be associated with hypopituitarism ( 29 , 38 , 41 ). From E10.5 OTX2 is strongly expressed in the neurohypophysis and hypothalamus but the expression in Rathke’s pouch is minimal. Expression continues until E16.5 but is silenced by E12.5. Knockout within Rathke’s pouch caused no abnormalities in pituitary development or function ( 42 ). OTX2 deficiency results in decreased posterior lobe and pituitary stalk development and secondary anterior lobe hypoplasia. This is mediated through failure of FGF10 production, resulting in the hypoplastic anterior pituitary, but with normal cell differentiation ( 42 ). It is also important for upregulating HESX1 and POU1F1 ( 29 ). Isolated GHD is classical for OTX2 mutations but CPHD, typically TSHD or HH and panhypopituitarism have been described. Imaging typically demonstrates ectopic or absent posterior pituitary with hypoplastic or normal anterior pituitary but may be normal ( 28 , 41 ). Ocular manifestations vary from anophthalmia/microphthalmia, to optic nerve hypoplasia or retinal dystrophy, with normal ocular phenotype also described. Additional anomalies are rarely reported ( 41 ). OTX2 abnormalities should be considered in cases of anophthalmia/microphthalmia and hypopituitarism. Posterior pituitary anomalies and absence of extracranial features may differentiate from SOX2 mutations ( 28 , 41 ). PAX6 Other genes known to be
