Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


in cases of anophthalmia/microphthalmia and hypopituitarism. Posterior pituitary anomalies and absence of extracranial features may differentiate from SOX2 mutations ( 28 , 41 ). PAX6 Other genes known to be associated with anophthalmia/microphthalmia have been shown to causes septo-optic dysplasia and hypopituitarism. PAX6 is located on chromosome 11p13 and is inherited in autosomal dominant pattern with incomplete penetrance ( 43 ). In murine pituitary development, PAX6 is expressed in the dorsal side of Rathke’s pouch from E9-12.5 and establishes the ventral-dorsal cell boundaries ( 44 ). It has a major role in early eye development, classically causing aniridia, with optic nerve anomalies including hypoplasia or microphthalmia or anophthalmia also described ( 43 ). Over 500 cases of PAX6 mutation have been described with only four cases of hypopituitarism, including isolated ACTH deficiency in one, GH deficiency in the remainder, two of which had plausible HH. Two were noted to have a hypoplastic pituitary ( 45 - 47 ). Thus, PAX6 is a rare cause of hypopituitarism in patients with eye abnormalities and may present with SOD. RAX The RAX gene found on chromosome 18q21.32 is involved in forebrain and eye development and is inherited in an autosomal recessive nature. In humans, it is associated with anophthalmia, microphthalmia and palatal anomalies and is present in approximately 3% of anophthalmia/microphthalmia cases ( 38 ). One patient to date with a severe mutation had anterior and posterior pituitary agenesis on MRI resulting in panhypopituitarism, but other patients have not been found to have pituitary anomalies ( 48 ). TCF7L1 The transcription factor 7-like 1 (TCF7L1) gene on chromosome 2p11.2 is a transcription regulator gene, important for brain development through WNT/β-catenin signaling pathway. Heterozygous mutations of TCF7L1 have been identified in 2 SOD patients, 1 of whom had GHD and ACTHD and MRI demonstrating ONH, anterior pituitary hypoplasia and absent posterior pituitary ( 49 ). Other Genes GLI2, BMP4, TBC1D32, PROKR2, FGF8, FGFR1 mutations are also associated with SOD but are described later as this is not their typical phenotype. Genes causing SOD are summarized in Table 1 . Table 1. Genes Associated with Septo-Optic Dysplasia View in own window Gene Inheritance/ prevalence Ocular Phenotype Pituitary appearance Pituitary deficiencies Other Features HESX1 Chr 3p14.3 AD/AR (incomplete penetrance) 1% of SOD ONH EPP, APH GH, CPHD, ACTH + ADH less common CC/SP changes, hypoplastic olfactory, underdeveloped forebrain SOX2 Chr 3q26.33 AD 10-15% of AO/MO AO/MO
