Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


in supporting pituitary development. The LHX3 gene located on chromosome 9q34.3 has autosomal recessive expression and is seen in 0.5-1.2% of hypopituitarism cases ( 39 , 50 , 51 ). LHX3 is first expressed in Rathke’s pouch at E9.5 following induction by FGF8 and by E12.5 is predominantly expressed in the dorsal aspect of the pouch. LHX3 is also expressed in the ventral hindbrain, inner ear and spinal cord, and is upregulated by LHX4 in the pituitary and SOX2 in the inner ear. LHX3 is expressed in the anterior and intermediate pituitary throughout development, persisting into adulthood and is thus thought to have a role in maintaining some of the cell types. In LHX3 null mice, Rathke’s pouch is initially formed, but regresses resulting in aplasia of the anterior and intermediate lobes, which is at least in part due to failure to support HESX1 and POU1F1 production. LHX3 is critical for maturation of Rathke’s pouch into the anterior pituitary and regulates differentiation of all anterior cell lines, although corticotrophs are somewhat preserved ( 52 ). As a result, LHX3 mutations commonly cause CPHD or panhypopituitarism, with ACTH production normal in approximately half. Children typically present with CPHD at birth but milder phenotypes of developing hypopituitarism throughout childhood are described. A variable appearance is seen on imaging, ranging from normal (10%) to aplasia or hyperplasia, with one case having a microadenoma type appearance ( 53 ). Sensorineural hearing loss is seen in up to 50% of cases as LHX3 is present in a restricted region of the inner ear in tandem with SOX2. Intellectual or learning difficulties are reported in 38% of cases ( 51 ). A short stiff neck with limited rotation is seen in approximately 70% of cases, with other vertebral anomalies such as scoliosis seen in approximately 50% of cases. Respiratory distress has occasionally been described ( 54 , 55 ). LHX3 should be suspected in patients with early-onset CPHD with a stiff neck and/or hearing impairment. Neonatal respiratory distress is a rare but important association that may also point to LHX3 mutation. LHX4 The LHX4 gene is found at chromosome 1q25.2 with autosomal dominant expression causing 0.9-1.4% of hypopituitarism cases ( 50 , 56 ). LHX4 is expressed in Rathke’s pouch from E9.5 like LHX3; however, by E12.5 it is restricted to the anterior lobe. It also expressed in hindbrain, cerebral cortex and spinal cord tissues. LHX4
