Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


expressed in Rathke’s pouch from E9.5 like LHX3; however, by E12.5 it is restricted to the anterior lobe. It also expressed in hindbrain, cerebral cortex and spinal cord tissues. LHX4 and LHX3 work in tandem to support specialization of pituitary cells and LHX4 is important for upregulating LHX3 and POU1F1 and ensuring correct timing of this induction. Thus, LHX4 deficiency may result in an element of LHX3 deficiency and causes a hypoplastic anterior pituitary with appropriate cell differentiation but reduced numbers of hormone producing cells ( 2 , 57 - 59 ). Like in LHX3, LHX4 also typically results in CPHD, but milder presentations, including transient isolated GHD, have been reported ( 56 ). One family of recessive lethal LHX4 has been reported with severe combined hypopituitarism and fatal respiratory distress thought to be secondary to their hypopituitarism ( 60 ). Appearances are again variable on imaging; ectopic posterior pituitary is common with the anterior pituitary ranging from normal to aplasia. Chiari 1 malformation is also associated but likely represents a minority of cases ( 56 ). Cardiac defects have been reported in 2 cases and respiratory distress in 4 cases ( 56 , 60 - 62 ). Penetrance is variable with asymptomatic effected parents being a common occurrence ( 56 ). LHX4 mutation should be considered in patients with Chiari malformation or respiratory/cardiac defects in a patient with hypopituitarism. GLI2 The GLI2 gene is a zinc finger transcription factor found on chromosome 2q14.2 and has an autosomal dominant inheritance with incomplete penetrance ( 63 ). Whilst prevalence has been reported in as many of 13.6% of cases of hypopituitarism, other cohorts have found it to be rare (<1%) ( 39 , 63 ). GLI2 is expressed in the ventral diencephalon, where it induces BMP4 and FGF8 and is present in the oral ectoderm and Rathke’s pouch from E8.5, where it is important for mediating SHH (Sonic Hedgehog) response. GLI2 is important for supporting pituitary progenitor proliferation and its absence results in reduced pituitary cell numbers, particularly corticotrophs, somatotrophs and lactotrophs, but appropriate differentiation of cells in general ( 64 ). GLI2 has been shown to mediate SHH effect and causes of holoprosencephaly (HPE) are commonly known to affect SHH. In 2003, Roessler et al. identified GLI2 gene mutations in 7 out of 390 patients meeting HPE criteria ( 65 ); however, this has since been shown to be an
