Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


In 2003, Roessler et al. identified GLI2 gene mutations in 7 out of 390 patients meeting HPE criteria ( 65 ); however, this has since been shown to be an uncommon manifestation GLI2 ( 66 ). A study of 112 cases with GLI2 mutations found only three children with holoprosencephaly, and one of whom had an alternative causative gene detected. This study showed that of those with a truncated GLI2 mutation, 62% had pituitary abnormalities and polydactyly and only 15% did not have either anomaly. 58% of those with non-truncated variants had hypopituitarism. 13% had midface hypoplasia with 16% having cleft palate/lip ( 66 ). Unlike other causes of holoprosencephaly, GLI2 typically manifests with anterior pituitary anomalies, particularly GH and ACTH deficiency ( 63 ). MRI findings vary, including optic nerve hypoplasia, septum pellucidum or corpus callosum hypoplasia/agenesis, anterior pituitary hypoplasia, ectopic posterior pituitary or PSIS. Thus SOD, PSIS, and rarely HPE are all plausible manifestations of GLI2 mutation ( 67 ). The presence of anterior pituitary deficiency and polydactyly or midface abnormalities/central incisor should raise suspicion for GLI2 and trigger further investigation. GLI3 Heterozygous mutation of another zinc finger transcription factor GLI3 found on chromosome 7p14.1, results in Pallister-Hall syndrome which presents with mesoaxial polydactyly and hypothalamic hamartoma ( 68 ). In mouse studies, GLI3 is not critical for pituitary or hypothalamic development or differentiation, but if combined with GLI2 mutation, the phenotype is more severe than GLI2 anomalies alone ( 64 , 69 ). Mutation in the amino-terminal third of the GLI3 gene results in Greig Cephalosyndactyly syndrome, associated with polydactyly, macrocephaly and hypotelorism, without hypothalamic abnormalities, with Pallister Hall being caused by mutations in the middle third of the gene ( 70 ). In 1980 Hall and Pallister et al. described 6 cases with hypothalamic hamartoma, panhypopituitarism, postaxial polydactyly and imperforate anus, with lethality in all cases ( 71 ). Since this time, milder/non-lethal familial forms have been denoted, with the pituitary phenotype varying from normal pituitary function to isolated GHD and panhypopituitarism, thus all cases should be assessed for pituitary dysfunction ( 72 ). As with other causes of hypothalamic hamartoma, central precocious puberty can also be associated and should be monitored for ( 68 ). Hypopituitarism Associated With Holoprosencephaly The prosencephalon cleaves into right and left hemispheres between day 18 and 28 gestation in humans. Failure of this process results in holoprosencephaly (HPE) of varying
