Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


Hypopituitarism Associated With Holoprosencephaly The prosencephalon cleaves into right and left hemispheres between day 18 and 28 gestation in humans. Failure of this process results in holoprosencephaly (HPE) of varying degrees with lobar holoprosencephaly having separated 3 rd ventricles with a connection within the frontal cortex, semilobarholoprosencephaly being partially separated and alobarholoprosencephaly having a continuous single anterior ventricle. ( Figure 5 ) Facial development is affected by the same process and can cause hypotelorism or cleft palate, but also severe cases may have anophthalmia or cyclopia with a superiorly displaced proboscis. Holoprosencephaly is present in 1 in 250 embryos’ but there is a high rate of fetal demise. It is estimated to occur in 1 in 8,000-16,000 live births ( 73 ). Figure 5. Types of holoprosencephaly. Other associated midline defects include underdevelopment of olfactory bulbs and corpus callosum, single midline maxillary incisor and hypoplastic pituitary or ectopic posterior pituitary. Holoprosencephaly is associated with anterior hypopituitarism in 5-10% of cases, with 70% having diabetes insipidus (DI) ( 74 ). Many cases are caused by trisomy 13 making up 40-60% of all causes with a genetic anomaly, trisomy 18 and triploidy are also associated. Sonic hedgehog and ZIC2 mutations make up 5% of non-syndromic cases each. Importantly, structural chromosomal anomalies in almost all chromosomes have been shown to cause holoprosencephaly ( 75 , 76 ). The SHH gene on chromosome 7q36 is critical for early development of the CNS, particularly the forebrain and is present in the notochord, neural tube and posterior limb buds of the gut. It is a major gene implicated in holoprosencephaly and its effect is mediated through other transcription factors, many of which have been demonstrated to cause HPE shown in Table 2 ( 73 ). There is limited data regarding the rates of anterior pituitary dysfunction with each gene type although cases in SHH and ZIC2 have been reported ( 67 , 77 ). Table 2. Genes Associated with Holoprosencephaly and Hypopituitarism View in own window Gene Chromosome % of HPE Other Features SHH 7q36 5.4-5.9% Renal-urinary anomalies ZIC2 13q32 4.8-5.2% Renal-urinary anomalies SIX3 2p21 3% Typically, severe HPE phenotype TGIF 18p11.3 <1% Wide spectrum of severity CDON 11q24.2 rare CHD, renal dysplasia, radial defects, gallbladder agenesis CHD – Congenital Heart Disease, HPE – Holoprosencephaly. Adapted from Tekendo-Ngongang C, et al. Holoprosencephaly Overview. GeneReviews. 2020 ( 76 ). Pituitary Stalk Interruption Syndrome Pituitary stalk interruption syndrome
