Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


pituitary and hypothalamus during embryological development ( 94 ). Mutation typically results in GHD, and panhypopituitarism has been described ( 94 , 95 ). Imaging typically demonstrates corpus callosum thinning and either normal, or hypoplastic anterior pituitary ( 94 ). BMP4 Bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4) gene is found on chromosome 14q22-q23 with dominant inheritance and incomplete penetrance ( 70 ). BMP4 is expressed in the diencephalon and infundibulum from E8.5, and absence results in failure of pituitary placode and Rathke’s pouch development in mouse studies ( 96 ). Mutations are frequently associated with anophthalmia/microphthalmia, cleft lip/palate and polydactyly/syndactyly. In 2018 Rodríguez-Contreras et al. reported a pathogenic BMP4 mutation in a boy with GH and TSH deficiency and myopia, but further cases have not yet been described ( 97 ). ARNT2 Chromosome 15q25.1 is the locus for the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator 2 (ARNT2) gene and has autosomal recessive inheritance. ARNT2 is expressed in the developing anterior and posterior pituitary and hypothalamus and mutations result in CPHD with diabetes insipidus. Pituitary imaging demonstrates absent posterior pituitary bright spot with stalk thinning and a hypoplastic anterior pituitary. It is also associated with postnatal microcephaly, hypoplastic frontal and temporal lobes, renal anomalies and vision impairment ( 98 ). TBC1D32 The TBC1 domain family member 32 (TBC1D32) gene is found at Chromosome 6q22.31 and results in disease with an autosomal recessive inheritance. TBC2D32 is expressed in the developing hypothalamus and Rathke’s pouch and is involved in SHH signaling and ciliary functioning. Isolated GHD or panhypopituitarism were found in the limited cases reported to date. Anterior pituitary hypoplasia or aplasia is described with ectopic or absent posterior pituitary as is partial agenesis of the corpus callosum and optic chiasm hypoplasia. Other phenotypic features include oral anomalies (cleft palate), facial dysmorphism (hypertelorism/cleft lip) and limb anomalies (polydactyly/syndactyly), consistent with oro-facial-digital syndrome ( 99 ). Table 3. Syndromic Causes of Hypopituitarism View in own window Gene Inheritance/ prevalence SOD/ PSIS/ HPE Pituitary appearance Pituitary deficiencies Other Features LHX3 Chr 9q34.3 AR 0.5-1.2% No APH, Normal, hyperplasia CPHD, ACTH in 50% SNHL, ID, short stiff neck, scoliosis, rarely RDS LHX4 1q25.2 AD 0.9-1.4% No APH, EPP CPHD CC hypoplasia, Chiari 1 malformation, rarely CHD/RDS GLI2 2q14.2 AD 1-13% SOD, HPE, PSIS APH, EPP, PSIS GH, ACTH, FSH/LH, TSH ONH, SP/CC changes, polydactyly, midface hypoplasia, cleft palate/lip GLI3 Chr 7p14.1 AD Rare No Hypothalamic hamartoma GH, ACTH,
