Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


E15.5 when it ceases. It stimulates stem cell transformation to mesenchymal cells and supports cell migration and differentiation, without which cells remain static. It is essential for POU1F1 initiation and failure of this results in further issues with cell differentiation. It is involved in the stimulation and differentiation of all cell lines including gonadotrophins and to a lesser extent, corticotrophs ( 104 ). Most cases have CPHD, and is typically progressive, with the number of diagnosed deficiencies and severity of deficiency increasing over time. Onset of GHD, TSHD and HH can occur antenatally with diagnosis at birth, but often present later, and in rare cases, some cell lines are normal. ACTH deficiency has been described from the age of 6 and typically develops across late childhood and adolescence. Imaging demonstrates a normal or hypoplastic anterior pituitary (occasionally hyperplastic) with normal posterior pituitary structures, and aside from features secondary to hypogonadism (micropenis and undescended testis) no extracranial phenotype has been described ( 105 ). The presentation is typically milder than POU1F1 mutation and the presence of features of hypogonadism and adrenal insufficiency in a non-syndromic child with CPHD should raise suspicion for PROP1 over POU1F1. ISOLATED HORMONE DEFICIENCIES The presence of any pituitary hormone deficiency raises the question of other hormone deficiencies. While isolated forms of pituitary deficiency occur, there is the potential for other deficiencies to develop over time as is seen in POU1F1 or LHX, and routine monitoring is required ( 53 , 100 ). It is also true that genes classically causing isolated hormone deficiencies, like GH1, can cause CPHD, and thus screening may be required ( 106 , 107 ). Isolated Growth Hormone Deficiency Figure 8. Cross-sectional representation of pituitary cell groups in isolated growth hormone deficiency. Adapted from Larkin S. et al, Endotext ( 1 ). Isolated growth hormone deficiency (IGHD) is reported to have a prevalence between 1 in 4,000-10,000. Whilst most cases are sporadic, suggesting an in-utero insult to development of a specific cell-line, 3-30% have a first degree relative, supporting the possibility of genetic causes ( 108 ). Approximately 6.5% of patients have a genetic cause currently detectable ( 39 ) with rates as high as 38% in those with a family history ( 109 ). Growth Hormone 1 (GH1) and Growth Hormone Releasing Hormone Receptor (GHRHR) genes are the most commonly implicated, although genes implicated in CPHD, such as HESX1, SOX3, OTX2,
