Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


Unknown Agammaglobulinemia AD – Autosomal Dominant, AR – Autosomal Recessive, CPHD – Combined Pituitary Hormone Deficiency, EPP – Ectopic Posterior Pituitary, GHRHR – Growth Hormone Releasing Hormone Receptor, IGHD – Isolated Growth Hormone Deficiency, XR – X-li linked Recessive. Adapted from Alatzoglou K. et al, JCEM;94:3191-3199 and Casteras A. et al, Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolic Case Reports ( 109 , 114 ). Central Hypothyroidism Neonatal screening studies using T4 testing determined neonatal central hypothyroidism to occur in 1 in 16000-30000 infants ( 115 , 116 ). Up to 40% of these cases have isolated central hypothyroidism, with neonatal rates between 1 in 40,000 to 75,000, while some cases of isolated central hypothyroidism develop after the neonatal period ( 117 ). Thyroid hormone receptors (THR) are present on both the hypothalamus and pituitary and downregulate hormone secretion. Thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) is released from the hypothalamus and binds the TRH receptor (TRHR) upregulating TSH production (pathway demonstrated in Figure 10 ). 5 different genes have been implicated but there is limited data on the frequency of genetic mutations in patient with isolated central hypothyroidism ( 118 ). Figure 10. Cellular function of thyrotroph cell. cAMP- Cyclic Adenosine Monophosphate, TRH – Thyrotropin Releasing Hormone, TRHR – Thyrotropin Releasing Hormone Receptor, TSH – Thyroid Stimulating Hormone. TSHB Thyroid stimulating hormone beta subunit (TSHB) gene is found on chromosome 1p13.1 and is associated with autosomal recessive inheritance ( 118 ). Hayashizaki et al. described the mutation in 1989 in a patient with severe neonatal onset hypothyroidism associated with prolonged jaundice, failure to thrive and developmental delay ( 119 ). Subsequent cases have also had severe deficiencies presenting neonatally ( 118 ). TRHR The thyrotropin releasing hormone receptor (TRHR) gene is found on chromosome 8q23.1 and again has autosomal recessive inheritance. The phenotype is milder than for TSHB with detection ranging from neonatal period to late childhood, and other patients being asymptomatic in adulthood. This is likely due to the presence of thyroid hormone receptors on the thyrotroph cells, upregulating TSH release independently of TRH ( 118 ). IGSF1 Immunoglobulin superfamily 1 (IGSF1) gene is found on chromosome Xq26.1 and is associated with X-linked recessive central hypothyroidism. Hypothyroidism is seen in all cases, but the degree of deficiency can be variable, with many presenting in the neonatal period with jaundice and failure to thrive, others are detected asymptomatically on family screening ( 118 ). IGSF1
