Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


degree of deficiency can be variable, with many presenting in the neonatal period with jaundice and failure to thrive, others are detected asymptomatically on family screening ( 118 ). IGSF1 is expressed in Rathke’s pouch and the adult pituitary gland and mutation results in low TSHB and TRHR mRNA, thus it is proposed IGSF1 has a role in regulating expression of these genes. 60% of patients have prolactin deficiency, supporting the involvement of decreased TRHR activity. GHD has been reported in a few cases, and 1 patient has been reported to have a hypoplastic anterior pituitary and ectopic posterior pituitary ( 118 ). Other known associations include macroorchidism in 80% with low adulthood testosterone levels but preserved fertility. Follow up shows that despite thyroxine replacement, 25% of children and 75% of adults are overweight and 65% of cases have ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder) ( 118 ). OTHER X-LINKED CAUSES Transducing b-like protein X-linked (TBL1X) gene is found at chromosome Xp22.2 and mutations are thought to prevent upregulation of TSHB and TRHR transcription, causing central hypothyroidism. It has a mild hypothyroid phenotype and is associated with hearing loss, and ADHD ( 118 ). Insulin receptor substrate 4 (IRS4) is found on chromosome Xq22.3 is often described as a cause of TSHD; however, mutations to date have resulted in low T4 but normal T3 and TSH, which does not suggest true central hypothyroidism ( 118 ). Central hypothyroidism is rare and while genetic testing may be appropriate, the prevalence of individual causative genes is unknown. If genetics are not performed, siblings of patients should have formal thyroid function tests including a T4 arranged in the newborn period. Table 5. Genetic Causes of Isolated Central Hypothyroidism View in own window Gene Inheritance Degree of hypothyroidism Other pituitary deficiency Other features TSHB 1p13.1 AR Severe Nil Jaundice, FTT, developmental delay TRHR 8q23.1 AR Mild Prolactin IGSF1 Xq26.1 XR Variable (mild to severe) Prolactin, (rarely GH) Macroorchidism, low testosterone, obesity, ADHD TBL1X Xp22.2 XR Mild Nil Hearing loss, ADHD AD – Autosomal Dominant, ADHD – Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, AR – Autosomal Recessive, XR – X-linked Recessive. Adapted from Tajima T. et al, Clin Pediatr Endocrinol;28(3):69-79 ( 118 ). Isolated ACTH Deficiency Isolated ACTH deficiency (IAD) is an extremely rare but serious condition with mortality rates of up to 25% in severe neonatal-onset forms ( 120 ). Corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRH) is produced by
