Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


deficiency (IAD) is an extremely rare but serious condition with mortality rates of up to 25% in severe neonatal-onset forms ( 120 ). Corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRH) is produced by the hypothalamus in response to low cortisol levels and binds to corticotroph cells. CRH stimulates cAMP release triggering protein kinase A (PKA) which binds CRH response element-binding protein (CREB) which in turn stimulates TBX19 which stimulates production of pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC). This is converted by prohormone convertase 1/3 (PCSK1 gene) to ACTH, which stimulates glucocorticoid production in the adrenal gland ( Figure 11 ) ( 121 ). Abnormalities in TBX19, POMC and PCSK1 genes have all been shown to cause IAD, and NFKB2 mutation causes IAD and immunodeficiency. Genetic causes are summarized in Table 6 . Figure 11. Cellular function of the corticotroph cell. ACTH – Adrenocorticotrophic Hormone, cAMP- Cyclic Adenosine Monophosphate, CRH – Corticotropin Releasing Hormone, CRHR – Corticotropin Releasing Hormone Receptor, PC 1/3 – Prohormone Convertase 1/3, POMC – Pro-opiomelanocortin, TBX19 – T-Box Transcription Factor 19. TBX19 T-box transcription factor 19 (TBX19) previously known as TPIT is located on chromosome 1q24.2 and causes severe neonatal onset IAD. It has an autosomal recessive inheritance and has been detected in 65% of cases of severe IAD, with 100% penetrance reported to date ( 120 ). As reported above, TBX19 is an important part of the pathway from CRH stimulation to ACTH release but is also critical for terminal differentiation of corticotrophs and can result in absence or severely hypoplastic cells ( 120 ). All patients present with severe neonatal hypoglycemia and >50% have hypoglycemic seizures, with a mortality rate of 25%. >60% have prolonged cholestatic/ conjugated jaundice and if diagnosis is delayed, intellectual impairment and developmental delay have been reported ( 120 ). Other abnormalities have occasionally been reported including Chiari type 1 malformation, and subtle dysmorphic features ( 120 , 122 ). Cortisol assessment should be performed in any neonate with recurrent hypoglycemia and cholestatic jaundice, and consideration of TBX19 gene assessment on confirmation of the diagnosis. Low levels of maternal estriol on antenatal testing has been shown to herald adrenal steroidogenesis issues and seen in a case of IAD caused by TBX19, but estriol is no longer routinely used in antenatal screening ( 123 ). PCSK1 Proprotein convertase of Subtisilin/Kexin 1 gene (PCSK1) found on chromosome 5q15-21, codes for prohormone convertase 1/3 (PC 1/3) and has an autosomal recessive
