Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


in antenatal screening ( 123 ). PCSK1 Proprotein convertase of Subtisilin/Kexin 1 gene (PCSK1) found on chromosome 5q15-21, codes for prohormone convertase 1/3 (PC 1/3) and has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. It is found throughout the body including the pituitary, hypothalamus and endocrine pancreas. It plays a critical role in processing POMC, proinsulin and proglucagon but multiple other hormones as well ( 124 ). PC 1/3 is required for conversion of POMC to ACTH in corticotroph cells. Deficiency thus results in low levels or absence of ACTH production. Despite this, there is typically a mild clinical phenotype, only 75% of patients have ACTH deficiency and not all are associated with hypocortisolemia. It is unclear whether this is due to partial ACTH binding capacity of POMC or other ACTH precursors, or whether an alternative enzyme compensates ( 124 ). PC1/3 deficiency can also cause CPHD. HH, TSHD, and GHD are seen in approximately 50%, 70% and 35% of cases respectively and have been demonstrated or proposed to be secondary to failure of hypothalamic conversion of pro-releasing hormones (proGnRH to GnRH (suspected), proTRH to TRH, proGHRH to GHRH). Like with the corresponding adrenal insufficiency, thyroid and GH deficiency are often phenotypically mild. DI, presumed due to ineffective provasopressin conversion to vasopressin is also reported in a subset of patients ( 124 ). Other associated features include obesity, occurring in nearly all patients, associated with hyperphagia and develops from approximately 2 years of age, the cause of which is multifactorial. Like in Prader-Willi syndrome, initially children present with failure to thrive; however, this is likely due to the presence of malabsorptive diarrhea. All cases to date have had severe neonatal diarrhea with demonstrated fat, amino acid and monosaccharide malabsorption, with the majority requiring hospitalization and parenteral nutrition. The underlying mechanism is not understood, and the intestinal architecture is typically normal on biopsy. The malabsorptive state typically displays partial improvement after the first year of life ( 124 ). PC1/3 is also critical for cleavage of proinsulin to insulin, resulting in undetectable insulin levels. To compensate, much higher quantities of proinsulin are produced which typically prevents diabetes mellitus as it is maintains a 2-5% activity at the insulin receptor. The most common symptom is in fact postprandial hypoglycemia, resulting from proinsulins four to six times longer half-life, causing a relative hyperinsulinism after meals. Later in life some patients proceed to diabetes mellitus
