Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


symptom is in fact postprandial hypoglycemia, resulting from proinsulins four to six times longer half-life, causing a relative hyperinsulinism after meals. Later in life some patients proceed to diabetes mellitus likely due to b-cell exhaustion ( 124 ). PCSK1 mutation should be considered in patients with early onset malabsorptive diarrhea and later onset obesity. Other features may include post-prandial hypoglycemia, gonadal abnormalities and reduced linear growth. CPHD and DI should be screened for but are typically mild ( 124 ). POMC Pro-opiomelanocortin gene (POMC) is found on chromosome 2p23.3 and deficiency manifests in an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern ( 125 ). It causes a classic triad of adrenal insufficiency, hypopigmented skin with red hair, and obesity associated with hyperphagia, that can commence within infancy ( 125 , 126 ). Children typically present with neonatal hypoglycemia (~70%) and adrenal insufficiency is detected at this point. Convulsions, hyperbilirubinemia and hyponatremia were present in over 30% of presenting cases. All known cases to date have been reported to have adrenal insufficiency and obesity, with 75% having red or Reddish-brown hair ( 125 ). Other endocrinopathies have been reported, TSHD being the most common. Melanocyte stimulating hormones (MSH) bind the melanocortin 4 receptor which has been shown to regulate TRH release and it is hypothesized that the limited production of MSH’s drives the hypothyroidism. TSHD is reported in 35% of cases to date and is often subclinical. GHD and HH have been reported in 10-20% of patients with mechanisms not well understood. Type 1 diabetes has also been seen in 10-20% of cases (double antibody positive) it is thought this may be secondary to the increased inflammatory state in the absence of melanocortin which have been demonstrated to have an anti-inflammatory effect ( 125 ). DAVID SYNDROME DAVID syndrome (Deficient Anterior pituitary with Variable Immune Deficiency) was first described in 2011 and results from a mutation of NFKB2 gene on chromosome 10q24.32. Classically it presents with common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) due to hypogammaglobulinemia, typically resulting in recurrent sinopulmonary infections. IAD typically develops years or decades later; however, initial presentation with IAD has been reported in 1 case ( 127 ). GHD has been reported in 2 cases and TSHD in a single case, and imaging may demonstrate a normal or hypoplastic anterior pituitary ( 127 , 128 ). Neonatal onset isolated adrenal deficiency should be screened for TBX19 mutations, and if absent, especially in
