Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


imaging may demonstrate a normal or hypoplastic anterior pituitary ( 127 , 128 ). Neonatal onset isolated adrenal deficiency should be screened for TBX19 mutations, and if absent, especially in a child with red hair, POMC gene testing should be considered, similarly the possibility of PCSK1 mutation in children with malabsorptive diarrhea and adrenal insufficiency. Table 6. Summary of Genetic Causes of Isolated ACTH Deficiency (IAD). View in own window Gene Inheritance Onset of IAD Presentation Other pituitary deficiencies Other phenotypes TBX19 Chr 1q24.2 AR, 100% penetrance 65% of severe neonatal onset IAD Neonatal hypoglycemia, cholestatic jaundice Nil Intellectual impairment if delayed diagnosis, Chiari type 1 malformation PCSK1 Chr 5q15-21 AR Variable Infantile malabsorptive diarrhea, FSH, LH, GH, TSH, Rarely ADH Obesity in early childhood POMC Chr 2p23.3 AR Neonatal Neonatal hypoglycemia, jaundice TSH (35%), GH, LH/FSH (10%) Obesity, reddish brown hair. Type 1 diabetes NFKB2 Chr 10q24.32 AD Variable Recurrent sinopulmonary infections GH, TSH (rare) Combined variable immunodeficiency AD -- Autosomal Dominant, AR – Autosomal Recessive . Central Hypogonadism Congenital hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism (HH), also known as Kallmann syndrome when seen in association with anosmia, occurs in 1 in 10,000 – 50,000 people, with a 4 to 1 male predominance ( 12 , 129 ). Gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH) is secreted in a pulsatile manner from the hypothalamus and has a complex pattern of regulation by estradiol and other factors. It binds GnRH receptors on gonadotroph cells leading to secretion of LH and FSH. In fetal development, the cells responsible for GnRH release migrate to the hypothalamus from the olfactory placode, and thus mutations triggering HH are often associated with olfactory dysgenesis and anosmia ( 12 ). There are over 25 gene defects implicated in HH, and a mutation is found in up to 50% of cases. No gene is implicated in more than 10% of familial cases. Oligogenicity is also described in multiple genes which further complicates diagnosis. Broadly speaking, HH is a result of one of four mechanisms, defects in GnRH fate specification, GnRH neuron migration, abnormal neuroendocrine secretion/homeostasis or gonadotroph cell defects ( 130 ). 55% of cases have anosmia/hyposmia ( 129 ). The majority of anosmic cases have an autosomal dominant inheritance, except for FEZF1, PROK2 and PROKR2, while norosmic cases may be autosomal dominant or recessive. However, incomplete penetrance, oligogenicity and variability of anosmia and norosmia of some genes makes delineating likely causative genes difficult.
