Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


Split hand/foot malformation is frequently part of the FGFR1 phenotype and the mutation is also seen in Pfeiffer syndrome, Hartsfield syndrome and Jackson-Weiss syndrome ( 142 ). Table 7. Causes of Hypogonadotrophic Hypogonadism Associated with Combined Pituitary Hormone Deficiency. View in own window Gene Inheritance/ prevalence SOD/ PSIS/HPE Other pituitary deficiencies Other Features PROKR2 Chr 20p12.3 AD/AR 5-23% of HH SOD/ PSIS CPHD FGF8 Chr 10q24 AD/AR 1% of HH SOD/HPE GH/CPHD VACTERL FGFR1 Chr 8p11.2-p12 AD 5-11% of HH SOD/PSIS GH/CPHD Split hand/foot malformation CHARGE CHD7 Chr 8q12.2 AD/de novo 6% of HH Nil GH/TSH Coloboma, CHD, choanal atresia, short stature, ID, genital hypoplasia, ear abnormalities AD – Autosomal Dominant, AR – Autosomal Recessive, CHD – Congenital Heart Disease HPE – Holoprosencephaly, ID – Intellectual Disability, PSIS – Pituitary Stalk Interruption Syndrome, SOD – Septo-optic Dysplasia, VACTERL- Vertebral defects, Anal atresia, Cardiac defects, Tracheo-esophageal fistula, Renal anomalies, and Limb abnormalities. Central Diabetes Insipidus Isolated diabetes insipidus (DI) is rare, with a reported prevalence of 1 in 25000, including both nephrogenic and central forms ( 143 ). Arginine vasopressin (AVP) or antidiuretic hormone (ADH) is produced from pre-pro-AVP in the supraoptic and paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei, and their axonal projections extend into the posterior pituitary. AVP mediates its affect through the AVPR2 receptor which increases urine concentration in the collecting duct. Apart from cases related to holoprosencephaly, genetic causes are rare ( 144 ). AVP The AVP gene is located on chromosome 20p13 and has an autosomal dominant inheritance except for a few recessive mutations. The AVP mutant proteins are thought to accumulate in the endoplasmic reticulum resulting in cell death. As a result, it usually manifests between 1 to 6 years of age with gradual progression of deficiency but there is wide variation even within affected families. Along with polyuria and polydipsia classically seen in DI, failure to thrive is commonly seen and resolves with AVP replacement ( 144 ). WOLFRAM SYNDROME The WFS1 gene, located on chromosome 4p16.1 encodes for wolframin which is an endoplasmic reticulum channel and has an autosomal recessive inheritance ( 144 ). Prevalence is estimated between 1 in 500,000 – 770,000 children with rates higher in areas of increased consanguinity (1 in 68,000 in Lebanon) ( 145 ). Wolfram syndrome causes diabetes mellitus, usually diagnosed at 6 years of age, optic nerve atrophy at around age 11 and sensorineural hearing loss typically progressing over time.
