Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


( 145 ). Wolfram syndrome causes diabetes mellitus, usually diagnosed at 6 years of age, optic nerve atrophy at around age 11 and sensorineural hearing loss typically progressing over time. DI is seen in approximately 70% of cases and is typically diagnosed in the 2 nd or third decade of life ( 143 ). A case DI without other manifestations of Wolfram syndrome has been reported ( 146 ). The mechanism of DI in Wolfram syndrome is not well understood ( 144 ). SYNDROMES ASSOCIATED WITH HYPOPITUITARISM Hypopituitarism has been reported in a wide variety of syndromes as an associated feature. These syndromes are reported separately as hypopituitarism is a less common association. Prader-Willi Syndrome Prader Willi Syndrome (PWS) is a complex condition with major neurological and endocrine challenges. It results from a lack of the paternally imprinted genes on chromosome 15q11.2-q13 which can result from paternal gene deletion, maternal uniparental disomy, or imprinting defects ( 147 ). Children typically have hypotonia and failure to thrive in infancy, but later progress to hyperphagia and obesity. Obesity and pituitary hormone deficiencies result from hypothalamic dysfunction. Growth failure and GHD are commonly seen but CPHD can also occur, and the anterior pituitary can be hypoplastic in approximately 70% of patients ( 148 , 149 ). Growth failure in Prader-Willi Syndrome occurs due to failure within the GH-IGF-1 axis, with GHD reported in 40-100% of patients and IGF-1 deficiency in nearly 100% of cases. Growth hormone replacement early in life (<1 year of age) is recommended regardless of GHD and is shown to improve lean muscle mass, motor development and cardiovascular health ( 150 - 153 ). Primary gonadal failure is present in most cases, with underdeveloped gonads typical in both genders. HH may compound this in some cases ( 154 ). TSHD has been reported in up to 30% cases, but the true prevalence is unclear. High rates were reported in the population younger than 2 years of age but in older children, rates did not exceed the general population, suggesting CNS maturation may result in this early childhood phenotype being transient. It is unclear if there is an association between PWS and ACTH deficiency with reported rates ranging from 0-60%, with rates likely being 5-14%. Routine screening of 8 AM cortisol is recommended ( 147 ). The mechanism for hypopituitarism in PWS is not well understood. The MAGEL2 gene, located within
