Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


rates likely being 5-14%. Routine screening of 8 AM cortisol is recommended ( 147 ). The mechanism for hypopituitarism in PWS is not well understood. The MAGEL2 gene, located within the PWS locus causes Schaaf-Yang Syndrome and presents similarly to PWS but with arthrogryposis. MAGEL2 is highly expressed in the developing hypothalamus and pituitary between 7-8 weeks gestation and mutations can result in IGHD or CPHD ( 155 ). Genetic testing is indicated in children with a history of neonatal hypotonia and failure to thrive that progress to obesity, with or without short stature. Axenfield-Rieger Syndrome (PITX2) Axenfield-Rieger syndrome involves dysgenesis of the anterior segment of the eye, typically resulting in glaucoma. The cause of many cases is unknown; however, 40% are due to either the PITX2 or FOXC2 genes. PITX2 is a pituitary homeobox gene located on chromosome 4q25 with autosomal dominant inheritance and variable penetrance ( 156 ). PITX2 is expressed early in the oral ectoderm (E8.5), and later in the anterior pituitary where it induces POU1F1 amongst other factors ( 156 , 157 ). Some cases of PITX2 mutation present with GHD, with dental and cardiac issues also associated ( 156 ). Johanson-Blizzard Syndrome (UBR1) Mutation of the UBR1 gene on 15q15-21 results in Johanson-Blizzard syndrome (JBS) and is inherited autosomal recessively, occurring in 1 in 250,000 live births, with 70 patients reported in the literature ( 158 ). It is characterized by exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, nasal alae hypoplasia/aplasia and cutis aplasia of the scalp. Along with developmental delay, failure to thrive and hearing impairment, hypothyroidism, genitourinary abnormalities and hypopituitarism are sometimes reported ( 159 ). In 2007, Hoffman et al. reported a case of a 4-year-old deceased boy with ACTH, GH and TSH deficiency, with undescended testicles and hypoplastic pituitary gland with an absent stalk ( 160 ). 3 cases of IGHD and isolated TSHD have also been reported, with microgenitalia reported in 4 patients, who have not been evaluated for HH. Other known endocrine associations include diabetes mellitus and primary hypothyroidism ( 158 , 159 ). Oliver-McFarlane Syndrome (PNPLA6) Oliver McFarlane syndrome is caused by a recessive mutation of chromosome 19p13 encoding for the PNPLA6 gene. This encodes for neuropathy target esterase (NTE) and is found in the human eye, brain and pituitary, which also results in other syndromes including Gordon-Holmes, Lawrence-Moon and Boucher–Neuhäuser syndrome, which are associated with HH and occasionally hypopituitarism ( 161
