Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


make up only a small proportion of the current hypopituitarism population, thus routine broad screening will not be appropriate at most centers and currently remains in the realms of research. Testing should be targeted to patients with consistent features, such as anophthalmia and SOX2 or a short stiff neck in LHX4. Individual genes can have a wide range of presentations and thus presence of a family history of hypopituitarism, whether similar in presentation or varied, should raise a high index of suspicion and screening should be strongly considered. Autosomal recessive causes are frequently seen, and dominant causes often have incomplete penetrance thus even relatively distant family associations should cause consideration for testing. Finally, presence of hypopituitarism in the context of a consanguineous parents should again raise suspicion of a likely genetic cause. Genetic testing typically is through next generation sequencing (NGS), although some mutations may be detectable on chromosomal microarray. Deletions on chromosomal microarray may include associated genes causing hypopituitarism. All the genes described above are summarized in table 9 , in order of gene location, to assist in determining which mutations may be associated in such cases. Septo-Optic Dysplasia Current evidence suggests genetic causes of SOD make up <10% of cases thus routine screening will not be appropriate in most centers ( 19 ). In the absence of family history, the main indication for testing is in patients with microphthalmia or anophthalmia, where testing for SOX2 and OTX2 would be appropriate, and if negative, testing could be extended to PAX6, RAX and BMP4 ( 38 ). In patients with facial midline defects or polydactyly, GLI2 testing should also be considered ( 66 ). Syndromic Causes Syndromic causes should be tested for based on clinical suspicion, with family history and consanguinity again increasing the likelihood. Respiratory distress syndrome and a short stiff neck or Chiari I malformation should raise suspicion of LHX3 and LHX4 mutations respectively ( 53 , 56 ). Polydactyly and either midline facial changes or hypothalamic hamartoma suggest GLI2 and GLI3 mutations respectively ( 66 , 68 ). In cases of holoprosencephaly with anterior pituitary dysfunction, outside of GLI2, there are only case reports of other known genes causing hypopituitarism ( 66 ). Non-Syndromic POU1F1 testing may be appropriate in patients with severe short stature, GHD, TSHD and prolactin deficiency alone, especially in Western-Indian populations where rates of up to 25% of the CPHD cohort have been
