Genetic Etiology of Congenital Hypopituitarism
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, hormone, deficiency, syndrome, cases, mutations, hypopituitarism, gene, cphd, mutation, anterior, associated, development, growth


be appropriate in patients with severe short stature, GHD, TSHD and prolactin deficiency alone, especially in Western-Indian populations where rates of up to 25% of the CPHD cohort have been reported ( 100 ). PROP1 typically has progressive hypopituitarism with late onset ACTH deficiency and routine screening in European countries, particularly Lithuania, may be appropriate ( 50 ). Isolated Hormone Deficiencies Unless familial, isolated GH deficiency rarely has a genetic basis thus genetic testing is not currently indicated with the exception of those with absent GH levels on stimulation testing as seen in type 1a GH1 mutations ( 109 ). The frequency of genetic causes within the TSH deficient cohort is unknown. Macroorchidism points to IGSF1 mutation but otherwise family history is the main indicator for genetic testing ( 118 ). Cases with isolated ACTH deficiency in the neonatal period should be tested for TBX19 mutations, and if absent, especially in a child with red hair, POMC gene testing should be performed ( 120 , 124 ). Children with malabsorptive diarrhea and adrenal insufficiency should be screened for PCSK1 mutation, and NFKB2 if there is known immunodeficiency ( 125 , 127 ). Hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism testing is well described and typically involves panel testing, but targeted testing based on inheritance pattern may be appropriate ( 12 , 130 ). Isolated diabetes insipidus is rare and testing should be based on a family history or presence of other features consistent with Wolfram syndrome, such as childhood onset optic atrophy or diabetes mellitus ( 144 ). Syndromes Associated with Hypopituitarism Testing for Prader-Willi, Williams, PITX2, UBR1, PNPLA6, KMT2A and KMT2D gene mutations should be considered based on their clinical features as listed in table 8 , and in patients known to have these mutations, pituitary screening may be necessary, especially in the context of growth failure. Table 9. Summary of Genes Associated with Hypopituitarism View in own window Gene Inheritance Pituitary deficiencies Phenotype 1p13.1 - TSHB AR TSH Jaundice, FTT, developmental delay 1q24.2 - TBX19 AR, ACTH Intellectual impairment if delayed diagnosis, Chiari type 1 malformation 1q25.2 - LHX4 AD CPHD CC hypoplasia, Chiari 1 malformation, rarely CHD/RDS 2p11.2 - TCF7L1 AD GH, ACTH SOD, CC/SP changes 2p21 - SIX3 AD CPHD HPE, PSIS 2p23.3 - POMC AR ACTH, TSH (35%), GH, LH/FSH (10%) Obesity, reddish brown hair. Type 1 diabetes 2q14.2 - GLI2 AD GH, CPHD SOD, PSIS, SP/CC changes, polydactyly, midface
