WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: syphilis, treatment, guidelines, stis, sti, penicillin, guideline, recommendation, million, development, pallidum, treponema, treponema pallidum, infections, management


Treatment of Treponema pallidum (syphilis) WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE Treatment of Treponema pallidum (syphilis) WHO Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data WHO guidelines for the treatment of Treponema pallidum (syphilis). Contents: Web annex D: Evidence profiles and evidence-to-decision frameworks - Web annex E: Systematic reviews for syphilis guidelines - Web annex F: Summary of conflicts of interest 1.Syphilis – drug therapy. 2.Treponema pallidum. 3.Sexually Transmitted Diseases. 4.Guideline. I.World Health Organization. ISBN 978 92 4 154980 6 (NLM classification: WC 170) © World Health Organization 2016 All rights reserved. Publications of the World Health Organization are available on the WHO website ( or can be purchased 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland (tel.: +41 22 791 3264; fax: +41 22 791 4857; email: ). Requests for permission to reproduce or translate WHO publications – whether for sale or for non-commercial distribution– should be addressed to WHO Press through the WHO website ( copyright_form/index.html). The designations employed and the presentation of the material in this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. Dotted and dashed lines on maps represent approximate border lines for which there may not yet be full agreement. The mention of specific companies or of certain manufacturers’ products does not imply that they are endorsed or recommended by the World Health Organization in preference to others of a similar nature that are not mentioned. Errors and omissions excepted, the names of proprietary products are distinguished by initial capital letters. All reasonable precautions have been taken by the World Health Organization to verify the information contained in this publication. However, the published material is being distributed without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied. The responsibility for the interpretation and use of the material lies with the reader. In no event shall the World Health Organization be liable for damages arising from its use. Printed by the WHO Document Production Services, Geneva, Switzerland i ii WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE TREATMENT OF TREPONEMA PALLIDUM (SYPHILIS) CONTENTS (CONTINUED) 4.3 Congenital syphilis 23 Recommendation 9 23 Recommendation 10 23 5. Research implications 25 References 26 Annex A: STI guideline development teams 27 Annex B: Detailed methods for guidelines development 36 Questions and outcomes 36 Review of the evidence 42 Applying the GRADE approach to making the recommendations 44 Annex C: Lists of references for
