WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: syphilis, treatment, guidelines, stis, sti, penicillin, guideline, recommendation, million, development, pallidum, treponema, treponema pallidum, infections, management


Detailed methods for guidelines development 36 Questions and outcomes 36 Review of the evidence 42 Applying the GRADE approach to making the recommendations 44 Annex C: Lists of references for reviewed evidence 45 Recommendation 1 and 2 45 Recommendation 3 and 4 46 Recommendation 5 and 6 47 Recommendation 7 and 8 48 Recommendation 9 48 Recommendation 10 48 Web annexes available at: www.who.int/reproductivehealth/publications/rtis/syphilis-treatment-guidelines/en/ Web annex D: Evidence profiles and evidence-to-decision frameworks Web annex E: Systematic reviews for syphilis guidelines Web annex F: Summary of conflicts of interest ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS iii ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS thank the members of the STI Guideline Development Harrel Chesson, Craig Cohen, Francisco Garcia, Group for their consistent availability and commitment Suzanne Garland, Sarah Hawkes, Mary Higgins, is also grateful to the STI External Review Group for Nicola Low, David Mabey, Angelica Espinosa Miranda, peer reviewing these guidelines, and appreciates Nelly Mugo, Saiqa Mullick, Francis Ndowa, Joel Palefsky, the contribution of the WHO Steering Committee. Keith Radcliffe, Ulugbek Sabirov, Judith Stephenson, The names of the members of each group are listed Richard Steen, Magnus Unemo, Bea Vuylsteke, below, with full details provided in Annex A. Anna Wald, Thomas Wong and Kimberly A. Workowski Special thanks to Dr Nancy Santesso, the guideline STI GDG working group for syphilis: Gail Bolan, methodologist who also led the systematic review John Changalucha, Xiang-Sheng Chen, Patricia Garcia, process, for her hard work and firm commitment of Suzanne Garland, Antonio Gerbase, Jeffrey Klausner, the guideline development process. We also thank Ornella Lincetto, David Mabey, Saiqa Mullick, the members of the Systematic Review Team from Joel Palefsky, Ulugbek Sabirov, Richard Steen McMaster University. STI External Review Group: Laith Abu-Raddad, We appreciate the overall support of the WHO Guideline Chris Akolo, Adele Benaken-Schwarts, Review Committee Secretariat during the guideline Mircea Betiu, Anupong Chitwarakorn, Carolyn Deal, development process, with grateful thanks to Margaret Gale-Rowe, William M. Geisler, Dr Susan Norris. Mary Kamb, Amina El Kettani, Mizan Kiros, Ahmed Latif, Philippe Mayaud, David McCartney, We thank Theresa Ryle for the administrative Ali M. Mir, Nuriye Ortayli, Pablo Sanchez, support, and 400 Communication for assistance Khantanouvieng Sayabounthavong and with the guideline design and layout. This guideline Aman Kumar Singh document was edited by Ms Jane Patten, of Green Ink, United Kingdom. WHO Steering Committee: Dr Teodora Wi led the guideline development process WHO regional offices: Massimo Ghidinelli, Hamida and Dr Nathalie Broutet co-led the process under Khattabi, Lali Khotenashvili, Ornella
