WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: syphilis, treatment, guidelines, stis, sti, penicillin, guideline, recommendation, million, development, pallidum, treponema, treponema pallidum, infections, management


TREATMENT OF TREPONEMA PALLIDUM (SYPHILIS) EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) are a quality of life and causing serious morbidity and mortality. STIs have a direct impact on cancers and pregnancy complications, and they have an indirect impact through their role in facilitating sexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and thus they also have an impact on national and individual economies. More than a million STIs are acquired every day. In 2012, an estimated 357 million new cases of curable STIs (gonorrhoea, chlamydia, syphilis and trichomoniasis) occurred among 15- to 49-year-olds worldwide, including 5.6 million cases of syphilis. There are an estimated 18 million prevalent cases of syphilis. 2 WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE TREATMENT OF TREPONEMA PALLIDUM (SYPHILIS) that results in substantial morbidity and mortality. physical examination, laboratory testing and sometimes Syphilis is transmitted through sexual contact with radiology. In most laboratory settings, the diagnosis is infectious lesions of the mucous membranes or based upon serologic tests. These include treponemal abraded skin, via blood transfusion, or transplacentally tests that measure antibodies to infection (including from a pregnant woman to her fetus. Untreated, the Treponema pallidum haemagglutination assay [TPHA], disease lasts many years and is divided into stages. Treponema pallidum particle agglutination assay Early syphilis consists of primary syphilis, secondary [TPPA], fluorescent treponemal antibody absorbed syphilis and early latent syphilis, while late syphilis [FTA-ABS]) and non-treponemal tests that are indirect consists of late latent syphilis and tertiary syphilis markers measuring host immune response to infections (neurosyphilis, cardiosyphilis and gumma). (including rapid plasma reagin [RPR], Venereal Diseases Research Laboratory [VDRL], Toluidine Red Unheated Primary syphilis classically presents as a solitary, Serum Test [TRUST]). Rapid treponemal tests for painless chancre at the site of inoculation. syphilis and dual HIV and syphilis tests are now However, the primary chancre may go unnoticed available. These tests will increase coverage for by patients. If untreated, the disease progresses to diagnosing syphilis. the secondary stage, characterized by generalized mucocutaneous lesions affecting both skin, mucous membranes and lymphnodes. The rash of secondary RATIONALE FOR THE GUIDELINES syphilis can vary widely and mimic other infectious Since the publication of the WHO Guidelines for the and non-infectious conditions, but characteristically management of sexually transmitted infections in 2003, affects the palms and soles. The symptoms and signs changes in the epidemiology of STIs and advancements of secondary syphilis spontaneously resolve, even in prevention, diagnosis and treatment necessitate without treatment, and
