WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: syphilis, treatment, guidelines, stis, sti, penicillin, guideline, recommendation, million, development, pallidum, treponema, treponema pallidum, infections, management


palms and soles. The symptoms and signs changes in the epidemiology of STIs and advancements of secondary syphilis spontaneously resolve, even in prevention, diagnosis and treatment necessitate without treatment, and if left untreated, the patient changes in STI management. These guidelines provide enters the latent stage. updated treatment recommendations for treatment Latent syphilis is asymptomatic, characterized of Treponema pallidum (syphilis) based on the most by positive syphilis serology with no clinical recent evidence. They form one of several modules of manifestations. Latent syphilis is often divided into guidelines for specific STIs. Other modules will focus two phases: early latent syphilis is defined as infection on treatments for Chlamydia trachomatis (chlamydia), for less than two years while late latent syphilis is Neisseria gonorrhoeae (gonorrhoea) and genital herpes the presence of the disease for two years or more. simplex virus (genital HSV). In addition, future work will Sexual transmission typically occurs during primary, provide guidance for syphilis screening and treatment mother-to-child transmission has been documented management, STI prevention, and treatments of to occur in untreated cases several years after initial other STIs. It is strongly recommended that countries maternal infection. take updated global guidance into account as they establish standardized national protocols and adapt Mother-to-child transmission of syphilis (congenital it to the local epidemiological situation and antimicrobial syphilis) is usually devastating to the fetus if maternal susceptibility data. infection is not detected and treated sufficiently early in pregnancy. The burden of morbidity and mortality due to congenital syphilis is high. In 2012, an estimated OBJECTIVES 350 000 adverse pregnancy outcomes worldwide The objectives of these guidelines are: were attributed to syphilis, including 143 000 early fetal deaths/stillbirths, 62 000 neonatal deaths, • to provide evidence-based guidance on treatment 44 000 preterm/low-birth-weight babies and 102 000 of Treponema pallidum; and infected infants. Most untreated primary and secondary • to support countries to update their national syphilis infections in pregnancy result in severe adverse guidelines for treatment of Treponema pallidum. pregnancy outcomes. Latent (asymptomatic) syphilis infections in pregnancy also cause serious adverse pregnancy outcomes in more than half of cases. Mother-to-child transmission of syphilis is declining globally due to increased efforts to screen and treat pregnant women for syphilis. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 3 METHODS RECOMMENDATIONS These guidelines were developed following the The current guidelines provide treatment methods outlined in the 2014 WHO handbook for recommendations for Treponema pallidum and guideline development. The Guideline Development congenital
