WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: syphilis, treatment, guidelines, stis, sti, penicillin, guideline, recommendation, million, development, pallidum, treponema, treponema pallidum, infections, management


These guidelines were developed following the The current guidelines provide treatment methods outlined in the 2014 WHO handbook for recommendations for Treponema pallidum and guideline development. The Guideline Development congenital syphilis. The recommendations summarized Group (GDG) included international STI experts, in Table 1 apply to all adults and adolescents (10–19 clinicians, researchers and programme managers. years of age), including pregnant women, people living The GDG prioritized questions and outcomes related to with HIV, people who are immunocompromised and treatment of syphilis and congenital syphilis infections key populations, including sex workers, men who have to include in this update, and a methodologist and a sex with men (MSM) and transgender persons. the WHO Collaborating Centre for Evidence-Informed Policy, independently conducted systematic reviews of the effectiveness of different treatments for syphilis and congenital syphilis. The evidence was assessed using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach and presented to the GDG. Conflicts of interest were managed according to WHO guidelines and declared before the recommendations were discussed and finalized. Research implications were also developed by the GDG. Table 1. Summary of recommendations for treatment of Treponema pallidum and congenital syphilis Recommendations Strength of recommendation and quality of evidence Early syphilis (primary, secondary and early latent syphilis of not more than two years’ duration) Adults and adolescents Recommendation 1 Strong recommendation, very low quality evidence In adults and adolescents with early syphilis, the WHO STI guideline recommends benzathine penicillin G 2.4 million units once intramuscularly over no treatment. Recommendation 2 Conditional recommendation, very In adults and adolescents with early syphilis, the WHO STI guideline suggests using low quality evidence benzathine penicillin G 2.4 million units once intramuscularly over procaine penicillin G 1.2 million units 10–14 days intramuscularly. When benzathine or procaine penicillin cannot be used (e.g. due to penicillin allergy) or are not available (e.g. due to stock-outs), the WHO STI guideline suggests using doxycycline 100 mg twice daily orally for 14 days or ceftriaxone 1 g intramuscularly once daily for 10–14 days, or, in special circumstances, azithromycin 2 g once orally. Remarks: Doxycycline is preferred over ceftriaxone due to its lower cost and oral administration. Doxycycline should not be used in pregnant women (see recommendations 3 and 4 for pregnant women). Azithromycin is an option in special circumstances only when local susceptibility to azithromycin is likely. If the stage of syphilis is unknown, follow recommendations for people with late
