WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: syphilis, treatment, guidelines, stis, sti, penicillin, guideline, recommendation, million, development, pallidum, treponema, treponema pallidum, infections, management


pregnant women). Azithromycin is an option in special circumstances only when local susceptibility to azithromycin is likely. If the stage of syphilis is unknown, follow recommendations for people with late syphilis. 4 WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE TREATMENT OF TREPONEMA PALLIDUM (SYPHILIS) Pregnant women Recommendation 3 Strong recommendation, very low quality evidence In pregnant women with early syphilis, the WHO STI guideline recommends benzathine penicillin G 2.4 million units once intramuscularly over no treatment. Recommendation 4 Conditional recommendation, very In pregnant women with early syphilis, the WHO STI guideline suggests using low quality evidence benzathine penicillin G 2.4 million units once intramuscularly over procaine penicillin 1.2 million units intramuscularly once daily for 10 days. When benzathine or procaine penicillin cannot be used (e.g. due to penicillin allergy where penicillin desensitization is not possible) or are not available (e.g. due to stock-outs), the WHO STI guideline suggests using, with caution, erythromycin 500 mg orally four times daily for 14 days or ceftriaxone 1 g intramuscularly once daily for 10–14 days or azithromycin 2 g once orally. Remarks: Although erythromycin and azithromycin treat the pregnant women, they do not cross the placental barrier completely and as a result the fetus is not treated. It is therefore necessary to treat the newborn infant soon after delivery (see recommendations 9 and 10 for congenital syphilis). Ceftriaxone is an expensive option and is injectable. Doxycycline should not be used in pregnant women. Because syphilis during pregnancy can lead to severe adverse complications to the fetus or newborn, stock-outs of benzathine penicillin for use in antenatal care should be avoided. Late syphilis (infection of more than two years’ duration without evidence of treponemal infection) Adults and adolescents Recommendation 5 Strong recommendation, very low quality evidence In adults and adolescents with late syphilis or unknown stage of syphilis, the WHO STI guideline recommends benzathine penicillin G 2.4 million units intramuscularly once weekly for three consecutive weeks over no treatment. Remarks: The interval between consecutive doses of benzathine penicillin should not exceed 14 days. Recommendation 6 Conditional recommendation, very In adults and adolescents with late syphilis or unknown stage of syphilis, the WHO low quality evidence STI guideline suggests benzathine penicillin G 2.4 million units intramuscularly once weekly for three consecutive weeks over procaine penicillin 1.2 million units once daily for 20 days. When benzathine or procaine penicillin cannot be used (e.g. due to penicillin allergy where penicillin desensitization
