WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: syphilis, treatment, guidelines, stis, sti, penicillin, guideline, recommendation, million, development, pallidum, treponema, treponema pallidum, infections, management


000–150 000 U/kg/day intravenously for 10–15 days • Procaine penicillin 50 000 U/kg/day single dose intramuscularly for 10–15 days Remarks: If an experienced venipuncturist is available, aqueous benzyl penicillin may be preferred instead of intramuscular injections of procaine penicillin. Recommendation 10 Conditional recommendation, very In infants who are clinically normal and whose mothers had syphilis that was low quality evidence adequately treated with no signs of reinfection, the WHO STI guideline suggests close monitoring of the infants. Remarks: The risk of transmission of syphilis to the fetus depends on a number of factors, including maternal titres from non-treponemal tests (e.g. RPR), timing of maternal treatment and stage of maternal infection, and therefore this recommendation is conditional. If treatment is provided, benzathine penicillin G 50 000 U/kg/day single dose intramuscularly is an option. 6 WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE TREATMENT OF TREPONEMA PALLIDUM (SYPHILIS) OVERVIEW OF THE GUIDELINES FOR THE PREVENTION, TREATMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF STIs STI EPIDEMIOLOGY AND BURDEN Both ulcerative and non-ulcerative STIs are associated with a several-fold increased risk of transmitting or Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) are a major acquiring HIV (7, 8). Infections causing genital ulcers are associated with the highest HIV transmission risk; of life and causing serious morbidity and mortality. in addition to curable ulcer-causing STIs (e.g. syphilis STIs have a direct impact on reproductive and child and chancroid), highly prevalent HSV-2 infections substantially increase that risk (9). Non-ulcerative STIs, complications, and they have an indirect impact through such as gonorrhoea, chlamydia and trichomoniasis, their role in facilitating sexual transmission of human have been shown to increase HIV transmission through immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and thus they also have genital shedding of HIV (10). Treating STIs with the right an impact on national and individual economies. The medicines at the right time is necessary to reduce HIV prevention and control of STIs is an integral component transmission and improve sexual and reproductive of comprehensive sexual and reproductive health health (11). Efforts should therefore be taken to services that are needed to attain the related targets strengthen STI diagnosis and treatment. under Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) No. 3 (Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages), including: target 3.2 – to end preventable deaths WHY NEW GUIDELINES FOR THE PREVENTION, of newborns and children under 5 years of age; target 3.3 TREATMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF STIs? – to end the epidemics of AIDS and other
