WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: syphilis, treatment, guidelines, stis, sti, penicillin, guideline, recommendation, million, development, pallidum, treponema, treponema pallidum, infections, management


NEW GUIDELINES FOR THE PREVENTION, of newborns and children under 5 years of age; target 3.3 TREATMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF STIs? – to end the epidemics of AIDS and other communicable Since the publication of the World Health Organization diseases; target 3.4 – to reduce premature mortality (WHO) Guidelines for the management of sexually from noncommunicable diseases and promote mental transmitted infections in 2003, changes in the health and well-being; target 3.7 – to ensure universal epidemiology of STIs and advancements in prevention, access to sexual and reproductive health-care services; diagnosis and treatment necessitate changes in STI and target 3.8 – to achieve universal health coverage. management. Indeed, 88% of countries have updated Worldwide, more than a million curable STIs are their national STI guidelines or recommendations since acquired every day. In 2012, there were an estimated 2006 (12). Updated global guidance reflecting the most 357 million new cases of curable STIs among adults aged recent evidence and expert opinion is therefore needed 15–49 years worldwide: 131 million cases of chlamydia, to assist countries to incorporate new developments 78 million cases of gonorrhoea, 6 million cases of into an effective national approach to the prevention syphilis and 142 million cases of trichomoniasis (1). and treatment of STIs. The prevalence of some viral STIs is similarly high, with There is an urgent need to update global treatment an estimated 417 million people infected with herpes recommendations to effectively respond to the simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) (2), and approximately changing antimicrobial resistance (AMR) patterns 291 million women harbouring human papillomavirus of STIs, especially for Neisseria gonorrhoeae. (HPV) at any point in time (3). The burden of STIs Effective treatment protocols that take into account varies by region and gender, and is greatest in global and local resistance patterns are essential resource-poor countries. to reduce the risk of further development of AMR. When left undiagnosed and untreated, curable STIs High-level gonococcal resistance to quinolones, can result in serious complications and sequelae, a previously recommended first-line treatment, such as pelvic inflammatory disease, infertility, is widespread and decreased susceptibility to the ectopic pregnancy, miscarriage, fetal loss and extended-spectrum (third-generation) cephalosporins, congenital infections. In 2012, an estimated 930 000 another first-line treatment for gonorrhoea, is on maternal syphilis infections resulted in 350 000 adverse the rise (13). Low-level resistance to Trichomonas pregnancy outcomes, including stillbirths, neonatal vaginalis has also been reported for nitroimidazoles, deaths, preterm
