WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: syphilis, treatment, guidelines, stis, sti, penicillin, guideline, recommendation, million, development, pallidum, treponema, treponema pallidum, infections, management


on maternal syphilis infections resulted in 350 000 adverse the rise (13). Low-level resistance to Trichomonas pregnancy outcomes, including stillbirths, neonatal vaginalis has also been reported for nitroimidazoles, deaths, preterm births and infected infants (4). the only available treatment. Resistance to azithromycin Curable STIs accounted for the loss of nearly 11 million has been reported in some strains of Treponema disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) in 2010 (5). pallidum and treatment failures have been reported The psychological consequences of STIs include for tetracyclines and macrolides in the treatment stigma, shame and loss of self-worth. STIs have also of Chlamydia trachomatis (14, 15). A WHO STI expert been associated with relationship disruption and consultation recommended updating the WHO 2003 gender-based violence (6). OVERVIEW OF THE GUIDELINES FOR THE PREVENTION, TREATMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF STIs 7 guidelines for the first- and second-line treatments Although recent technological advances in diagnostics, for C. trachomatis, increasing the dosage of ceftriaxone therapeutics, vaccines and barrier methods offer better to 250 mg for treatment of N. gonorrhoeae with opportunities for the prevention and care of STIs, access continued monitoring of antimicrobial susceptibility, to these technologies is still limited, particularly in areas and consideration of whether azithromycin (2 g, single where the burden of infection is highest. For optimal dose) should be recommended in early syphilis (16). effectiveness, global guidelines for the management of STIs need to include approaches for settings with The epidemiology of STIs is changing, with viral limited access to modern technologies, as well as for pathogens becoming more prevalent than bacterial settings in which these technologies are available. etiologies for some conditions; this means that updated information is required to inform locally appropriate It is strongly recommended that countries take prevention and treatment strategies. An increasing updated global guidance into account as they establish proportion of genital ulcers are now due to viral standardized national protocols, adapting this guidance infections as previously common bacterial infections, to the local epidemiological situation and antimicrobial such as chancroid, approach elimination in many susceptibility data. Standardization ensures that all countries (16, 17). As recommended during the STI patients receive adequate treatment at every level ulcer disease (GUD) should be updated to include HSV-2 supervision of health-care providers and facilitates treatment and a longer treatment duration for HSV-2 procurement of medicines. It is recommended that should be explored. In addition, suppressive therapy national guidelines for the effective management of for
