WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: syphilis, treatment, guidelines, stis, sti, penicillin, guideline, recommendation, million, development, pallidum, treponema, treponema pallidum, infections, management


treatment and a longer treatment duration for HSV-2 procurement of medicines. It is recommended that should be explored. In addition, suppressive therapy national guidelines for the effective management of for HSV-2 should be considered in areas with high HIV STIs be developed in close consultation with local STI, infections also requires that renewed attention be paid to developing effective prevention strategies, including expanding accessibility to available vaccines for HPV and development of new vaccines for HSV-2. In the 2003 WHO guidelines, a syndromic approach was recommended for the management of STIs. The approach guides the diagnosis of STIs based on identification of consistent groups of symptoms and easily recognized signs and indicates treatment for the majority of organisms that may be responsible for producing the syndrome. The syndromic management algorithms need to be updated in response to the changing situation. In addition to changes to the GUD algorithm, other syndromes need to be re- evaluated, particularly vaginal discharge. The approach to syndromes for key populations also needs to be updated. For example, addition of a syndromic management algorithm for anorectal infections in men who have sex with men (MSM) and sex workers is urgently needed since a substantial number of these infections go unrecognized and untreated in the absence of guidelines (16). New rapid, point-of-care diagnostic tests (POCTs) are changing STI management. Rapid syphilis diagnostic tests are now widely available, making syphilis screening more widely accessible and allowing for earlier initiation of treatment for those who test positive. Efforts are under way to develop POCTs for other STIs that will augment syndromic management of symptomatic cases and increase the ability to identify asymptomatic infections (12). Updated guidelines are needed that incorporate rapid tests into syndromic management of STIs and provide algorithms for testing and screening (16). 8 WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE TREATMENT OF TREPONEMA PALLIDUM (SYPHILIS) APPROACH TO THE REVISION OF STI GUIDELINES To ensure effective treatment for all STIs, WHO plans a phased approach to updating the STI guidelines to address a range of infections and issues. Four phases have been proposed by the WHO STI Secretariat and agreed upon by the STI Guideline Development Group (GDG) members (see Annex A for members of these groups). Table 2 summarizes the proposed phases and timeline. Table 2: Phases for development of the STI guidelines Phases Topics Timeframe Phase 1 Treatment of specific STIs: Chlamydia trachomatis November 2013 – April (chlamydia),
