Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


ABSTRACT Several medications and medication classes have been reported to affect the lipid profile. This should be considered when evaluating patients with elevated levels of total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoproteins cholesterol (LDL-C), non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (Non-HDL-C), triglycerides (TG), and reductions in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). Glucocorticoids, atypical antipsychotics, anticonvulsants, hormones, and certain immunosuppressives are just some of the more commonly known medications to have a negative impact on the lipid profile. In some cases, this is a class effect and in others it might depend on dose and specific drug. However, how this translates to atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk remains unknown, as there is insufficient evidence on the impact of these metabolic changes on overall risk of ASCVD. While for many of these medications, there is an abundance of literature and comprehensive reviews discussing the potential harmful effects on lipoprotein metabolism there remains much debate about the actual long-term implications, if any, of these changes. A thorough risk-benefit analysis of each treatment associated with an adverse effect on the lipid profile should be done based on individual patient factors. In general, if negative changes in the lipid profile are observed during therapy, replacement with an equivalent alternative therapy can be recommended. If no equivalent therapy is available and treatment must be initiated, then monitoring of serum lipid levels and initiating treatment for dyslipidemia is vital. The use of existing guidelines for the management of dyslipidemia in the general population can be referred to and in extreme cases when benefits do not outweigh the risks the use of the suspected medication should be reassessed. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Secondary causes of dyslipidemia are important to identify as treatment of the underlying cause may alleviate the dyslipidemia and ultimately reduce the need for drug treatment or the need for combination pharmacotherapy ( 1 ). Guidelines recommend that providers should evaluate for underlying conditions that could be causing dyslipidemias before initiating treatment in patients ( 2 , 3 ). One such secondary cause of abnormally altered lipid or lipoprotein levels is medications used for other indications ( 4 ). Serum lipid levels can be affected both positively and negatively by certain medications. Medications can affect lipid levels either directly or indirectly through effects on weight or glucose metabolism. This should be considered when evaluating patients with elevated levels
