Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


shown to increase triglyceride levels, while reported increases of up to 30% have been reported with use of tamoxifen. **Data remains conflicting, and some evidence shows a decrease, no effect, or increase. ***Varies based on individual drug. ANTIHYPERTENSIVE DRUGS There is an abundance of literature and comprehensive reviews discussing the potential harmful effects of antihypertensive drugs on lipoprotein metabolism and there remains much debate about the actual long term implications, if any, of these changes ( 10 ). The diuretics and β- adrenergic blockers have the most data to support their adverse effects on lipid levels ( 11 - 16 ). Diuretics Thiazide and loop diuretics have been associated with increases in plasma cholesterol in studies of patients with hypertension. Guidelines from the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association recommend thiazide diuretics as one of four specific medication classes to be considered as initial therapy for hypertension ( 17 ). In view of these recommendations and widespread use of diuretics, it is important to review the adverse metabolic effects. Use of high-dose thiazide diuretics (≥50 mg/day) may negatively affect lipoprotein levels, as seen in small studies, and some investigators have suggested that as a result, diuretics could worsen coronary artery disease (CAD) ( 13 ). Total cholesterol levels can be increased by approximately 4% and LDL-C levels by approximately 10% ( 10 , 16 , 18 ). HDL-C levels are not affected, while TG concentrations can also be elevated by 5-15% ( 10 ). Low dose hydrochlorothiazide (12.5 – 25 mg/day) has been shown not to effect plasma lipids in otherwise healthy men and women ( 13 ). The dose appears to be a factor in resulting cholesterol levels ( 19 ); however, there are conflicting data regarding whether the effects on lipid levels is primarily caused by higher doses ( 13 ). Long term effects beyond one year remain undetermined as more recent studies showed that effects are short term and serum lipid levels return to initial levels ( 20 ). Additionally, thiazide diuretics have been shown to decrease the risk of cardiovascular (CV) events despite this effect on lipid levels ( 21 ). Loop diuretics have similarly been shown to increase LDL-C and TG levels with some studies showing changes of comparable magnitude and some showing effects that are less than thiazide diuretics ( 22 , 23 ). However, the effects appear to be acute and not expected
