Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


showing changes of comparable magnitude and some showing effects that are less than thiazide diuretics ( 22 , 23 ). However, the effects appear to be acute and not expected at time intervals longer than the duration of action of furosemide (6 to 8 hours). One possibility is that hormones stimulated in response to decreased intravascular volume are responsible for some changes in lipid and lipoprotein levels ( 23 ). The effects of monotherapy with potassium-sparing diuretics on lipid levels are largely unknown, but the combination of a potassium-sparing diuretic and a thiazide show similar changes as monotherapy with a thiazide diuretic, suggesting no impact from potassium-sparing diuretics. The mechanism of increased lipid levels and TGs caused by diuretics remains unclear. One theory is that a reduction in insulin sensitivity may cause an increase in hepatic production of cholesterol ( 18 , 24 ). It has been recently suggested that they may modulate adipocyte differentiation leading to accumulation of plasma TGs in susceptible patients with a particular genetic polymorphism in the NELL1 gene ( 25 ). It is also thought that there are sex differences, as diuretics were shown to produce a greater short-term increase in TC and LDL-C in postmenopausal women than in men. Premenopausal women may have a protective effect from estrogens and have demonstrated no changes in lipid levels ( 16 ). Estrogens have been theorized to increase the number of hepatic LDL binding sites and stimulate the hepatic uptake of lipoproteins ( 18 ). β-Blockers The metabolic adverse effects of β-blockers depend on dose and the specific drug. While β-blocking agents have a negligible effect on serum TC or LDL-C, they can increase TG levels from 10 to 40% and decrease HDL-C levels by approximately 5 to 20% ( 10 ). The evidence on duration of effect remains conflicting with studies citing effects to last less than 1 year ( 20 ), and other studies reporting increased levels after several years of treatment ( 25 ). The alterations in lipoprotein levels from β-blockers does not appear to be a class effect, and agents with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA), β1-selectivity, or vasodilatory effects ( Table 2 ) are associated with a less pronounced effect ( 10 , 26 ). Non-selective β-blockers which cause peripheral vasoconstriction through peripheral β-adrenergic receptors seem to increase insulin resistance, leading to lowering of HDL-C and increased TG ( 27 ). Agents that
