Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


Amiodarone Amiodarone, a potent antiarrhythmic drug, increases plasma cholesterol levels, reported in case reports ( 32 , 33 ). Amiodarone increases LDL-C levels because of a decreased expression of the LDL-receptor gene ( 32 , 34 , 35 ). In addition, amiodarone induced hypothyroidism can cause alterations in lipid metabolism as hypothyroidism is one of the most common causes of secondary hyperlipidemia. Amiodarone contains 39.4% iodine on weight basis which may cause hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism ( 35 ). Research demonstrates that long-term amiodarone treatment induces a dose-dependent increase in plasma cholesterol, in part due to thyroid hormone deficiency and a decrease in the number of LDL receptors ( 36 , 37 ). DIABETES MEDICATIONS Sodium-Glucose Co-Transporter 2 (SGLT2) Inhibitors The SGLT2 inhibitors lower blood glucose and hemoglobin A1c (HgA1c) through inhibiting SGLT2 in the proximal tubule, thereby blocking reabsorption of glucose and increasing the renal excretion of glucose ( 38 ). There are currently several SGLT2 inhibitors available and approved for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Although data is mixed and the individual agents appear to affect the lipid profile to a varying degree, these agents have been shown to increase LDL-C while also increasing HDL-C with variable effects (decreasing or no effect) on TG. A meta-analysis of 60 randomized studies showed that as a class, SLGT2 inhibitors can increase TC by a mean difference of 3.65 mg/dl (95% CI 2.4 to 4.89), LDL-C by 2.92 mg/dl (95% CI 1.92 to 3.92), HDL-C by 2.23 mg/dl (95% CI 1.85 to 2.61), and reduce TG by a mean difference of -8.78 mg/dl (95% CI -12.46 to -5.10) ( 39 ). While a decrease in weight could explain the favorable effects seen on HDL-C and TG, it remains unclear what the mechanism behind the modest dose-related increase in LDL-C is ( 40 ). One possibility is that SGLT2 inhibitors cause a switch from carbohydrate to lipid utilization causing an increase in hepatic fatty acid levels to induce ketone production and hepatic total cholesterol levels ( 40 ). They may also increase lipoprotein lipase mediated conversion of VLDL to LDL ( 39 ). Despite this small increase in LDL-C, SGLT2 inhibitors have proven CV benefits in patients with diabetes and heart failure. To date, canagliflozin, dapagliflozin and empagliflozin have demonstrated an improvement in CV outcomes (composite of CV mortality, nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI), or nonfatal stroke) and a reduction in heart
