Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


failure. To date, canagliflozin, dapagliflozin and empagliflozin have demonstrated an improvement in CV outcomes (composite of CV mortality, nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI), or nonfatal stroke) and a reduction in heart failure hospitalizations in subjects with high CV risk ( 41 ). While additional lipoprotein monitoring may be necessary, the CV benefits of SGLT-2 inhibitors outweigh the potential for slight increases in LDL-C. Metformin Metformin may decrease serum TG levels and LDL-C levels without altering HDL-C levels ( 42 ). In a meta-analysis of 37 trials with 2,891 patients, metformin decreased TG by 11.4mg/dL when compared with control treatment (p=0.003) ( 43 ). In an analysis of 24 trials with 1,867 patients, metformin decreased LDL-C by 8.4mg/dL compared to control treatment (p<0.001) ( 43 ). In contrast, metformin did not significantly alter HDL-C levels ( 43 ). It should be noted that in the Diabetes Prevention Program 3,234 individuals with impaired glucose metabolism were randomized to placebo, intensive lifestyle, or metformin therapy. In the metformin therapy group no significant changes were noted in TG, LDL-C, or HDL-C levels compared to the placebo group ( 44 ). Thus, metformin may have small effects on lipid levels. Thiazolidinediones The effect of thiazolidinediones depends on which agent is used. Rosiglitazone increases serum LDL-C levels, increases HDL-C levels, and only decreases serum TG if the baseline TG levels are high ( 42 ). In contrast, pioglitazone has less impact on LDL-C levels, but increases HDL-C levels, and decreases TG ( 42 ). In the PROactive study, a large randomized cardiovascular outcome study, pioglitazone decreased TG levels by approximately 10%, increased HDL-C levels by approximately 10%, and increased LDL-C by 1-4% ( 45 ). It should be noted that reductions in the small dense LDL subfraction and an increase in the large buoyant LDL subfraction are seen with both thiazolidinediones ( 42 ). In a randomized head-to-head trial, it was shown that pioglitazone decreased TG levels and increased serum HDL-C levels to a greater degree than rosiglitazone treatment ( 46 , 47 ). Additionally, pioglitazone increased LDL-C levels less than rosiglitazone. In contrast to the differences in lipid parameters, both rosiglitazone and pioglitazone decreased A1c and C-reactive protein to a similar extent. The mechanism by which pioglitazone induces more favorable changes in lipid levels than rosiglitazone despite similar changes in glucose levels is unclear, but differential actions of ligands for nuclear hormone receptors are well described.
