Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


Colesevelam Decrease LDL-C. May increase TG Bromocriptine-QR Decrease TG Insulin No effect HORMONES Glucocorticoids In patients without inflammatory disorders, the administration of glucocorticoids has variable effects on the lipid profile; HDL-C levels are typically increased with the magnitude of change in plasma triglyceride and LDL-C varying among studies ( 53 - 55 ). In patients with inflammatory diseases, the effect of glucocorticoids on lipids is confounded by the marked anti-inflammatory effects of glucocorticoids. Inflammation affects lipid and lipoprotein levels and thus reducing inflammation per se can affect the lipid response to glucocorticoid treatment ( 56 ). Similarly, the effect of glucocorticoids on lipids following transplantation or the treatment of other medical conditions is also difficult to interpret due to the simultaneous use of other medications and the response of the underlying medical conditions. Furthermore, the dose and route of administration of the glucocorticoids can be an important variable, as low doses often have minimal effects on triglyceride, LDL-C, and HDL-C levels while high doses tend to increase serum triglyceride, LDL-C, and HDL-C levels. The precise mechanisms by which glucocorticoids alter lipid levels is unclear. Glucocorticoids increase the activity of acetyl CoA carboxylase and fatty acid synthase resulting in an increase in hepatic fatty acid synthesis ( 57 ). Additionally, in acute experimental models’ glucocorticoids also increase adipose tissue lipolysis resulting in an increase in circulating free fatty acid levels, which will deliver fatty acids to the liver ( 57 ). Glucocorticoids also stimulate the enzymes required for the synthesis of triglyceride in the liver and the increase in hepatic triglyceride levels decreases the degradation of Apo B and increases the formation and secretion of VLDL ( 57 ). Moreover, in patients with Cushing’s syndrome VLDL production rates are increased, while VLDL clearance is not altered, indicating that hepatic overproduction of VLDL accounts for the increase in serum triglyceride levels ( 58 ). This increase in VLDL production could also contribute to the increase in LDL-C levels in patients with Cushing’s syndrome ( 58 ). Glucocorticoids increase the synthesis and secretion of Apo A-I by direct effects on the Apo A-I promoter that are mediated via the glucocorticoid receptor ( 59 , 60 ). The increased production of Apo A-I could lead to an increase in HDL-C. DRUGS USED TO TREAT CUSHING’S SYNDROME Ketoconazole is an anti-fungal imidazole derivative that blocks several steps in cortisol biosynthesis thereby lowering serum cortisol levels.
