Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


lead to an increase in HDL-C. DRUGS USED TO TREAT CUSHING’S SYNDROME Ketoconazole is an anti-fungal imidazole derivative that blocks several steps in cortisol biosynthesis thereby lowering serum cortisol levels. However, ketoconazole is also an inhibitor of cholesterol biosynthesis, acting directly by blocking the conversion of methyl sterols to cholesterol and indirectly by suppressing cholesterol synthesis via feedback inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase by sterol intermediates ( 61 , 62 ). In the past, ketoconazole had been used to treat patients with familial hypercholesterolemia before the widespread use of statins, as it reduced total, intermediate density cholesterol, LDL-C, and apo B levels by approximately 25% ( 63 ). Levoketoconazole, also decreases total cholesterol and LDL-C levels by approximately 25% and slightly increases HDL-C levels ( 64 ). Mitotane is used for treatment of adrenal carcinoma or intractable Cushing’s disease. Mitotane raises circulating cholesterol, LDL-C, Apo B, and HDL-C levels ( 65 - 67 ). Increases in triglyceride levels have also occurred ( 66 , 67 ). Mitotane increases HMGCoA reductase activity, which may contribute to the increase in LDL-C ( 68 ). In a case report mitotane increased LDL-C levels as high as 300mg/dl ( 69 ). Because mitotane induces CYP3A4 activity one should use a statin that is not metabolized by this enzyme (for example pravastatin or rosuvastatin) ( 66 ). Mifepristone, a potent antagonist of glucocorticoid and progesterone receptors, lowers HDL-C and Apo AI levels ( 70 ). The mechanism for this decrease in HDL-C is unknown. In a small study short-term administration of mifepristone reduced serum TG levels, which correlated with increases in adipose tissue lipoprotein lipase activity ( 71 ). Pasireotide, a somatostatin analog, targets corticotroph tumors and is used for Cushing’s disease when surgery is unsuccessful or not accessible. Despite causing hypergylcemia, pasireotide has a positive impact on the lipid profile and leads to small decreases in TC and LDL-C and increases in HDL-C levels ( 72 ). Estrogens and Progestins Estrogen administration increases HDL-C levels by 5-15% and decreases LDL-C levels by 5-20% ( 73 - 76 ). In addition, estrogens also increase triglycerides but in patients with genetic or acquired abnormalities in triglyceride metabolism estrogen therapy can precipitate marked hypertriglyceridemia and even the chylomicronemia syndrome ( 77 , 78 ). In women with normal baseline triglycerides an approximate 10-15mg/dl increase in triglycerides occurs with estrogen therapy ( 73 - 76 ). If the increase
