Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


syndrome ( 77 , 78 ). In women with normal baseline triglycerides an approximate 10-15mg/dl increase in triglycerides occurs with estrogen therapy ( 73 - 76 ). If the increase in triglycerides is substantial, it leads to a decrease in LDL size (i.e., formation of small dense LDL). Not unexpectedly, estrogens induce an increase in Apo A-I levels and a decrease in Apo B levels. Lp(a) levels are also decreased by 20-25% by estrogen therapy ( 73 - 76 ). The effects of oral estradiol are similar to that of oral conjugated equine estrogens (Premarin). Transdermal estrogen administration has less of an effect on lipids and lipoproteins ( 73 - 76 , 79 ). The increase in HDL-C and the decrease in LDL-C are markedly blunted ( 73 - 76 , 79 ). Importantly, the effect of transdermal estrogen on triglycerides is minimal and therefore in patients with baseline abnormalities in triglyceride metabolism, the use of transdermal estrogen therapy is preferred ( 73 - 76 , 79 ). The lack of a robust effect on lipids with transdermal estrogen preparations is likely due to decreased exposure of the liver to estrogens compared with oral therapy. Selective estrogen-receptor modulators, including raloxifene and tamoxifen, appear to have less impact on lipids, but can still elevate TG levels ( 80 ). There have been several case reports in the literature describing tamoxifen-induced hypertriglyceridemia causing acute pancreatitis ( 7 , 8 , 81 , 82 ). Progestins generally have androgen-like effects on lipid and lipoproteins and therefore progestin administration decreases HDL-C and TG levels but has little or no effect on LDL-C levels ( 73 - 76 ). Thus, when combined with estrogen therapy, the estrogen/progesterone preparation blunts the characteristic estrogen induced increase in HDL-C levels without affecting the estrogen induced reduction in LDL-C levels ( 73 - 76 ). In many but not all studies, progesterone also blunts the estrogen induced increase in TG levels ( 73 - 76 , 83 ). In contrast, progesterone appears to either slightly augment or have no effect on the ability of estrogens to decrease Lp(a) levels ( 75 ). It is important to note that the effect of adding progesterone is dependent on both the dose and the androgenicity of the particular progesterone used. Godsland analyzed a large number of studies and found in order of least to most potent progesterone affecting lipid levels the following;
