Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


and the androgenicity of the particular progesterone used. Godsland analyzed a large number of studies and found in order of least to most potent progesterone affecting lipid levels the following; dydrogesterone and medrogestone, progesterone, cyproterone acetate, medroxyprogesterone acetate, transdermal norethindrone acetate, norgestrel, and oral norethindrone acetate ( 75 ). Progestins with more androgenic effects, such as levonorgestrel, have larger effects on lipid levels than those with less androgenic effects ( 84 ). Newer, “third generation” progestins (desogestrel, gestodene) with higher specificity have been developed to reduce this risk and have demonstrated favorable effects on LDL-C levels and HDL-C levels, but they can also increase TGs ( 85 , 86 ). In recent years, the dose of ethinyl estradiol in oral contraceptives has been decreased from 50 down to just 20-30 mcg in current formulations to reduce adverse metabolic changes. Therefore, the effect varies with oral contraceptives based on their estrogen and progestin content and more specifically the potency of the estrogen and the androgenicity of the progestin. The American Heart Association recommends that lower estrogen-containing preparations or other forms of contraception should be considered in women who develop hypertriglyceridemia while taking therapy ( 80 ). Oral contraceptives with low doses of estrogen should be used in women with dyslipidemia, as studies of low dose triphasic oral contraceptives have resulted in no significant changes or only mild elevations in TC, LDL-C, and TG levels. Contraceptives that can be considered for women with uncontrolled LDL-C levels or multiple CV risk factors, include using non-androgenic or anti-androgenic progestins as they have minimal influence on the lipid profile ( 87 ). There are several effects of estrogen that could lead to an increase in HDL-C levels (for review see ( 57 ). First, studies have shown that estrogens stimulate the expression of Apo A-I, which will lead to an increased synthesis of Apo A-I and the increased formation of HDL. Second, estrogen therapy decreases hepatic lipase activity, which will decrease the hydrolysis of triglyceride and phospholipids on HDL particles, which could potentially result in a decrease in the catabolism of HDL. Finally, estrogens suppress the expression of SR-B1 in the liver, which will decrease the transfer of cholesterol from HDL particles into the hepatocyte increasing plasma HDL-C levels. Based on kinetic studies it is likely that the predominant effect of estrogens is to increase the production of HDL, which is mediated by an increase
