Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


increasing plasma HDL-C levels. Based on kinetic studies it is likely that the predominant effect of estrogens is to increase the production of HDL, which is mediated by an increase in Apo A-I production. The net result may be protective from atherosclerosis. The decrease in LDL-C induced by estrogen treatment is accounted for by an increase in LDL clearance ( 57 ). Studies have shown that estrogens increase the expression of hepatic LDL receptors ( 57 ). Additionally, estrogens reduce PCSK9 levels, which would decrease the degradation of LDL receptors ( 57 ). Together, this would increase the number of hepatic LDL receptors leading to the accelerated clearance of LDL and a reduction in plasma LDL-C levels. The increase in plasma triglyceride levels induced by estrogen treatment is due to the increased production and secretion of VLDL particles ( 57 ). The mechanism by which estrogens decrease Lp(a) levels is unknown. Anabolic Steroids DANAZOL Danazol is a synthetic steroid indicated for endometriosis and for prophylaxis in patients with hereditary angioedema (HAE) ( 88 , 89 ). A review of data for the treatment of endometriosis showed that danazol treatment can result in a rapid reduction in HDL-C by up to 50% and increase in LDL-C by 10-40% ( 90 ). However, these levels return to baseline levels after stopping therapy and there is only a concern in prolonged therapy for 12 months or greater or in patients with a high risk of ASCVD ( 89 ). This effect is consistent in the literature ( 91 - 94 ). The mechanism is likely from its effects on hepatic lipase, LDL receptor, and lecithin cholesterol acyl transferase activity. Data supports an altering of lipoprotein levels in women treated for endometriosis, but there may not be an effect in the treatment of HAE ( 95 ). Some possible explanations for this difference are that HAE doses are lower than doses used for the treatment of endometriosis, the duration of therapy is longer and often lifelong versus 2-6 months for endometriosis, and men are also treated for HAE. A randomized trial evaluated danazol on HDL-C in healthy volunteers and patients with HAE. Patients with ASCVD or significant risk factors for ASCVD were excluded in this healthy volunteer study. Short-term use in healthy subjects (n=15) demonstrated a 23% decrease in HDL-C levels; however, these were normalized after 4 weeks of treatment. There was no effect
