Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


this healthy volunteer study. Short-term use in healthy subjects (n=15) demonstrated a 23% decrease in HDL-C levels; however, these were normalized after 4 weeks of treatment. There was no effect seen on LDL-C or TG. Longer-term use in patients with HAE did not appear to decrease HDL-C levels compared to matched healthy controls. This study supports the belief that the differences in study populations as well as varying duration and doses of danazol impact the effect danazol has on the lipid profile. However, other studies have shown conflicting results and also demonstrated a decrease in HDL-C (as well as apolipoprotein Apo A-I; the major protein component of the HDL particle) and increase in LDL-C in long term use for the prevention of HAE ( 95 , 96 ). However, this negative effect was not shown to translate into an increased risk of atherosclerosis ( 96 ). Androgens The changes in lipid and lipoprotein levels induced by testosterone treatment are relatively small and variable depending upon the patient population studied, the route and dose of testosterone administration, the duration of therapy, the specific testosterone preparation (whether or not it can undergo aromatization to estrogens), and perhaps other unrecognized factors ( 57 ). For example, the reductions in HDL-C appear to be greater in patients whose baseline HDL-C levels are high ( 97 , 98 ). Additionally, transdermal testosterone treatment appears to have less effect on HDL-C levels than intramuscular administration ( 99 ). High dose testosterone treatment appears to more consistently lower HDL-C levels than low dose treatment ( 100 ). For example, testosterone enanthate 200mg IM every week used in a contraception study resulted in a relatively robust 13% decrease in HDL-C levels ( 101 ). Similarly, raising serum testosterone levels to higher levels produces greater decreases in LDL-C levels ( 100 ). Finally, using testosterone preparations that are not converted to estrogens or simultaneously blocking aromatization can lead to more profound decreases in HDL-C and LDL-C levels, which can be attributed to estrogens having effects on lipid and lipoprotein levels that counterbalance the effects of androgens (estrogens increase HDL-C and decrease LDL-C) ( 102 , 103 ). The important clinical point is that in the typical androgen deficient patients that we treat with the usual testosterone therapy there will only be a modest or no changes in plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels. The minimal effect of testosterone therapy was
