Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


that we treat with the usual testosterone therapy there will only be a modest or no changes in plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels. The minimal effect of testosterone therapy was clearly demonstrated in a large randomized double-blind trial of 788 males over the age of 65 with low testosterone levels who were treated with either testosterone gel to normalize testosterone levels or placebo for 1 year ( 104 ). In this trial HDL-C (adjusted mean difference, -2.0 mg/dL; P < 0.001), and LDL-C were both slightly decreased (adjusted mean difference, -2.3 mg/dL; P = 0.051) from baseline with no change in triglyceride levels in the testosterone treated individuals. Several studies have shown that testosterone administration decreases Lp(a) levels and the effect is more robust in individuals who have high baseline Lp(a) levels ( 101 , 105 , 106 ). Moreover, it has been shown that simultaneously administering testosterone with an aromatase inhibitor does not markedly reduce the ability of testosterone to decrease Lp(a) levels, indicating that the conversion of testosterone to estrogens does not account for this effect suggesting a direct action of testosterone ( 105 ). Lp(a) is a pro-atherogenic lipoprotein so testosterone induced decreases should be beneficial. While treatment of typical older hypogonadal men with testosterone therapy has only modest to no effects on plasma lipids and lipoproteins, the use of high dose androgenic steroids in young men for the purpose of increasing muscle mass and strength can have profound effects. Studies of bodybuilders and weight lifters using anabolic steroids have revealed reductions in HDL-C levels by 20-70% accompanied by decreases in apo A-I levels, as well as elevations in LDL-C by approximately 20% ( 107 - 110 ). In a study by Webb and colleagues of 14 individuals taking high dose androgenic steroids, HDL-C levels were markedly reduced to 29mg/dl, which was less than 50% of the mean HDL-C when exogenous steroids were not used (61mg/dl) ( 110 ). Additionally in these individuals LDL-C levels were also higher on androgenic steroids (150mg/dl) than off of androgenic steroids (125mg/dl) ( 110 ). Similarly, Hurley and colleagues demonstrated that androgen use by eight bodybuilders and four powerlifters lowered HDL-C levels by 55% and raised LDL-C levels by 61% ( 111 ). In a double-blind cross-over study anabolic steroids, which may not have androgenic effects, induced a 25-27% decrease in HDL-C levels, which returned towards normal 6 weeks after cessation
