Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


111 ). In a double-blind cross-over study anabolic steroids, which may not have androgenic effects, induced a 25-27% decrease in HDL-C levels, which returned towards normal 6 weeks after cessation of drug use ( 112 ). A literature review described 49 reports of 1,467 athletes using anabolic-androgenic steroids corroborating the link and reports that these changes can occur within 9 weeks of self-administration and the effects seem to be reversible and normalize within 5 months after discontinuation ( 113 ). Thus, if one sees an athletic male with unexpectedly low HDL-C levels one should suspect androgen and/or anabolic steroid use, which is often obtained as a dietary supplement or as a pharmaceutical from an unregulated source. There are a number of potential explanations why the changes in lipid and lipoprotein levels are greater in athletes using androgenic steroids. First, the doses used by the athletes are much higher than used in typical testosterone replacement. Second, the androgenic steroids used are often different and more potent (for example nandrolone-decanoate and oxandrolone). Often the compounds used are not converted to estrogen by aromatase and therefore their effects on serum lipid levels will not be counterbalanced by estrogen formation. Lastly, young athletes are often lean and have little adipose tissue and thus low aromatase activity. There can be individual patient variation in aromatase activity with obese older individuals having increased aromatase activity compared to young athletic individuals ( 114 ). The conversion of testosterone to estrogens by aromatase may blunt the effects of testosterone as estrogens will increase HDL-C levels and decrease LDL-C levels. Together it is likely that these factors account for the more robust changes in lipids and lipoprotein levels induced by androgens in young athletes. ANDROGEN DEPRIVATION THERAPY Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is hormone therapy with gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists used for the treatment of prostate cancer and is associated with a variety of metabolic adverse events, including lipid alterations ( 115 ). Studies of androgen deprivation therapy have shown an increase in plasma HDL-C and Apo A-I levels ( 116 - 123 ). This increase occurs very rapidly within 2 weeks of lowering serum testosterone levels ( 116 ). Furthermore, this increase in HDL-C is inhibited if one simultaneously administers testosterone demonstrating that this increase is due to the suppression of testosterone levels ( 121 ). In addition, androgen deprivation therapy is also associated with an elevation of LDL-C,
