Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


administers testosterone demonstrating that this increase is due to the suppression of testosterone levels ( 121 ). In addition, androgen deprivation therapy is also associated with an elevation of LDL-C, non-HDL-C, Lp(a), and triglyceride levels ( 117 - 120 , 122 , 124 - 127 ). The increase of Lp(a) is notable as the metabolism of Lp(a) often does not parallel the metabolism of LDL. Growth Hormone Adults with growth hormone deficiency frequently have lipid abnormalities, decreased insulin sensitivity and an increased CV morbidity and mortality. Treatment with recombinant human growth hormone, or somatropin, for adults with growth hormone deficiency has contributed to positive lipid changes, including decreased levels of TC and LDL-C by 10-25% ( 128 - 133 ). A meta-analysis by Newman and colleagues reported on the effect of low dose GH replacement (<0.7mg/day; seven studies) and high dose GH replacement (>0.7mg/day; sixteen studies) involving over 1000 subjects ( 134 ). In both the low dose and high dose groups, GH replacement therapy decreased total and LDL-C levels but did not significantly affect either HDL-C or triglyceride levels. LDL-C levels decreased by 11.3%. A meta-analysis of 37 trials by Maison et al also found that total and LDL-C levels were decreased with no significant changes in triglycerides or HDL-C by GH treatment ( 135 ). In a few studies, HDL-C levels have been observed to increase with GH therapy ( 136 - 138 ). For example, in a 15 year long term perspective study GH therapy reduced LDL-C and increased HDL-C levels, while having no significant effect on triglyceride levels ( 129 ). This long observational study demonstrates that treatment of growth hormone deficiency in adults results in sustained improvements in the serum lipid profile. The decrease in LDL-C levels with GH treatment correlates with baseline LDL-C levels (i.e. the higher the LDL-C the greater the decrease with GH treatment) ( 139 ). Interestingly GH treatment increases Lp(a) levels ( 138 , 140 - 143 ). There is some data to suggest that individual response to growth hormone on lipid metabolism is partly influenced by genetic polymorphisms in genes related to lipid metabolism ( 144 ). Studies have shown that GH increases the expression of hepatic LDL receptors ( 145 , 146 ). Additionally, GH decreases circulating PCSK9 levels, which would also increase hepatic LDL receptors ( 147 ). As a consequence, the clearance of LDL-C is accelerated
