Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


( 145 , 146 ). Additionally, GH decreases circulating PCSK9 levels, which would also increase hepatic LDL receptors ( 147 ). As a consequence, the clearance of LDL-C is accelerated by GH treatment ( 148 , 149 ). Thus, the increase in total cholesterol and LDL-C levels in GH deficient patients is likely due to a decrease in hepatic LDL receptors and therefore with GH administration the number of LDL receptors increases leading to a decrease in plasma LDL-C levels. Notably, in a patient with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, devoid of functional LDL receptors, GH treatment did not result in a decrease in LDL-C levels, whereas in GH deficient patients, normal subjects, and patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia treatment with GH resulted in a decrease in LDL-C levels ( 148 ). This observation further demonstrates the importance of LDL receptors in mediating the decrease in LDL-C levels in response to GH administration. In transgenic mice expressing the human Apo (a) gene, GH administration increases the mRNA levels of Apo (a) and plasma levels of Apo (a) ( 150 ). The increased production of Apo (a) induced by GH could account for the increase in Lp(a) levels induced by GH treatment. Thyroid Hormone A meta-analysis by Kotwal et al demonstrated that the treatment of hypothyroidism with levothyroxine resulted in a decrease in TC by -58 mg/dL, LDL-C by -41 mg/dL, HDL-C by -4.1 mg/dL, TG by -7.3 mg/dL, apo A by -12.6 mg/dL, apo B by -34.0 mg/dL, and Lp(a) by -5.6 mg/dL ( 151 ). The decrease in LDL-C levels is primarily due to an increase in hepatic LDL receptors resulting in the accelerated clearance of circulating LDL ( 152 ). This increase in LDL receptors is due to thyroid hormone stimulating the increased expression of LDL receptors ( 152 , 153 ). In addition, hyperthyroidism leads to a decrease in PCSK9, which will lead to a decrease in the degradation in LDL receptors contributing to the increase in LDL receptors ( 154 ). Thyroid hormone induces other alterations in cholesterol metabolism that could contribute to the decrease in LDL-C levels including stimulating the elimination of cholesterol from the body by increasing the conversion of cholesterol into bile acids and increasing the biliary secretion of bile acids and cholesterol, decreasing intestinal absorption of dietary cholesterol, and decreasing Apo B production ( 57 ). A number of key proteins involved in HDL
