Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


the biliary secretion of bile acids and cholesterol, decreasing intestinal absorption of dietary cholesterol, and decreasing Apo B production ( 57 ). A number of key proteins involved in HDL metabolism and reverse cholesterol transport are regulated by thyroid hormone. Specifically, CETP, hepatic lipase, LCAT, and SR-B1 are increased by thyroid hormone ( 57 ). An increase in CETP, hepatic lipase, LCAT, and SR-B1 would be anticipated to result in a decrease in HDL-C and an increase in reverse cholesterol transport. The mechanism for the decrease in Lp(a) is unknown. RESMETIROM Resmetirom is a liver-directed, thyroid hormone receptor beta (THR-β)–selective agonist approved for the treatment of metabolic dysfunction–associated steatohepatitis (MASH). In a large randomized trial LDL-C levels at 24 weeks decreased by 13.6% in the 80-mg resmetirom group and 16.3% in the 100-mg resmetirom group compared with 0.1% in the placebo group (P<0.001 for both comparisons with placebo) ( 155 ). Additionally, TG (~20%) (in patients with baseline TG >150 mg/dL), non–HDL-C (15-18%), and Lp(a) (30-35%) levels also decreased in the resmetirom groups compared to the placebo group. HDL-C levels did not change in this study. The differences in the effect of thyroid hormone and resmetirom on lipid levels are due to resmetiron only activating the thyroid hormone receptor in the liver. RETINOIDS Retinoids are synthetic analogues of Vitamin A effective for the treatment of psoriasis, severe acne, and other related skin disorders caused by abnormal keratinization. Oral isotretinoin was first reported to cause hypertriglyceridemia most likely due to a reduction in the clearance of VLDL particles secondary to decreasing lipoprotein lipase-mediated lipolysis ( 156 , 157 ). Retinoids have also been shown to increase plasma apo C-III concentrations by increasing the transcriptional activity of the human apo C-III gene via the retinoid X receptor (RXR), ultimately contributing to the development of hypertriglyceridemia ( 158 , 159 ). Isotretinoin has been reported to cause a variety of adverse events with some potential serious consequences, including case reports of pancreatitis ( 160 ). Patients with significantly elevated TG levels are more likely to develop pancreatitis and therefore, patients with preexisting hypertriglyceridemia should avoid retinoid therapy or use with extreme caution until TG levels can get better controlled. In addition, a baseline lipid profile should be obtained in all patients and TG levels checked at least once after four weeks of therapy. Patients with a higher risk of developing hypertriglyceridemia should be
