Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


lipid profile should be obtained in all patients and TG levels checked at least once after four weeks of therapy. Patients with a higher risk of developing hypertriglyceridemia should be monitored more frequently. Studies with isotretinoin have demonstrated a rise in VLDL-C, TG, LDL-C, and TC with a slight decrease in HDL-C ( 4 ). A large retrospective cohort study including 12,140 adults exposed to isotretinoin found no significant association between isotretinoin and cardiovascular outcomes ( 161 ). ANTIPSYCHOTICS Antipsychotic medications can be highly effective in controlling psychiatric illnesses. However, some of these are also associated with metabolic adverse events that can increase the risk for ASCVD ( 162 - 165 ). One such adverse event includes dyslipidemia, with increases primarily occurring in TG levels. Phenothiazines, which are first generation or ‘typical’ antipsychotics, were found to elevate serum TG and TC levels soon after their approval, with a greater effect on TG levels. Studies have shown an increase of up to 22% after a year of treatment with chlorpromazine ( 4 ). Further studies have observed similar effects with trifluronated phenothiazines and haloperidol. The possibility that these drugs contribute to lipoprotein abnormalities should be considered in patients with dyslipidemia or high CV risk. Second generation, or ‘atypical’ antipsychotics were later developed to reduce relapse rates and adverse events. Compared to first generation antipsychotics, they have lower affinity for the D 2 receptors and instead act namely on serotonin and norepinephrine. They have become first line treatment due to a lower potential risk of extrapyramidal symptoms. However, metabolic side effects including an increase in serum TG levels as well as minor increases in TC, have also been demonstrated with the use of second-generation antipsychotics. The exact mechanism of their impact on lipoprotein metabolism remains uncertain. Clozapine, a second-generation antipsychotic, was the first agent shown to increase serum TG levels ( 166 ). A retrospective study reviewed patients on clozapine and found that men on clozapine had an average 48.13% increase in TG level and women a 35.38% increase and there was a significant interaction between drug and gender over time ( 166 ). Weight gain is a common adverse effect of using atypical antipsychotics which can lead to an increase in TG levels ( 167 ). The 5-HT2c receptor-blocking and/or histamine antagonism action of these medications is a possible cause of the related weight gain. One study demonstrated a significant increase
