Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


TG levels ( 167 ). The 5-HT2c receptor-blocking and/or histamine antagonism action of these medications is a possible cause of the related weight gain. One study demonstrated a significant increase in weight and serum TG with olanzapine and clozapine, with minimal and moderate changes in those on risperidone and quetiapine, respectively ( 167 ). However, this was an extremely small study (n=56) and it is difficult to translate these results to the general population. This is consistent with the overall evidence, and it appears that clozapine and olanzapine have the greatest effect on the risk of dyslipidemia, followed by quetiapine. Risperidone, ziprasidone, lurasidone and aripiprazole have a relatively low risk of dyslipidemia associated with their use ( 166 , 168 ). As access to general and preventive care remains a limitation for patient populations with schizophrenia, these adverse effects can be of great concern for a population already at increased risk of CV complications. Therefore, checking baseline lipid levels and screening for the duration of therapy may be necessary in patients receiving therapy with atypical antipsychotics. If a patient develops elevated TG levels or dyslipidemia, they should be offered lipid-lowering therapy or if possible, switched to a less offending agent. ANTICONVULSANTS Changes in serum lipid levels have been reported with the use of various anticonvulsants with variability and inconsistency in the literature. Some observational studies have reported elevated levels of LDL-C and HDL-C while others have shown no significant effects. TG levels are not influenced by treatment with anticonvulsants. Since most anticonvulsants induce the hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes, it is theorized that competition between the medication and cholesterol for the enzyme occurs which results in a decreased breakdown of cholesterol to bile acids and an increase in TC ( 10 ). This inconsistency has been noted in studies in both adults and pediatrics with epilepsy and it appears differences may exist based on the individual anticonvulsant used. In addition, the influence of therapy on the development of atherosclerosis remains debatable. Carbamazepine and phenobarbital have been shown to cause alterations in the lipid profile. In children and adolescents with epilepsy, carbamazepine has demonstrated a consistent increase in TC and LDL-C levels, while some individual studies have also shown an increase in HDL-C as well as TG levels ( 169 , 170 ). Treatment of epilepsy in children with phenobarbital has also shown increased TC, LDL-C, and HDL-C, as well as
