Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


in HDL-C as well as TG levels ( 169 , 170 ). Treatment of epilepsy in children with phenobarbital has also shown increased TC, LDL-C, and HDL-C, as well as lower TG levels. Valproic acid appears to have little effect, or even a slightly favorable effect, on the lipid profile ( 169 ). IMMUNOSUPPRESSIVES AND IMMUNE MODULATORS Cyclosporine and Tacrolimus Cyclosporine and tacrolimus are immunosuppressant agents used as mainstay therapy for solid organ transplant recipients. Several metabolic abnormalities are associated with the use of both medications, including glucose intolerance, bone loss, and elevations in TC and LDL-C and apo B-100 levels. Effects on HDL-C levels are inconsistent, but trials have also demonstrated increases in HDL-C ( 10 ). Hyperlipidemia can occur in up to 60% in post-transplant patients ( 171 ). This is due to a combination of factors, including post-transplant obesity, multiple drug therapy (including steroids and other immunosuppressants), and diabetes. These adverse effects are much greater with cyclosporine than tacrolimus, which has minimal effects on TC and LDL-C, and smaller effects on TG levels than cyclosporine ( 172 ). A randomized prospective trial compared a tacrolimus-based regimen to a cyclosporine-based regimen in patients undergoing a cardiac transplant. After 12 months of therapy, serum TC, LDL-C, HDL-C, and TG were significantly higher in the cyclosporine group compared to tacrolimus and more patients received medical treatment for elevated lipids (71% vs. 41%; p=0.01) ( 172 ). The impact of cyclosporine on lipid levels appears to be dose dependent and trough blood levels correlate with the elevations in TC and LDL-C, as well as reductions in HDL-C levels ( 173 ). The mechanisms by which cyclosporine causes hyperlipidemia are unclear, as the effects in humans are confounded by many other factors in transplant patients. Conversion from cyclosporine to tacrolimus can be considered if post-transplant hyperlipidemia occurs, and several studies have demonstrated this ( 174 - 176 ). Statins are recommended as first line treatment for dyslipidemia in transplant recipients. However, drug interactions need to be accounted for. Concomitant use of cyclosporine and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors metabolized by CYP3A4 has been shown to increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis due to a potential drug-drug interaction through inhibition of the CYP3A-mediated metabolism of simvastatin, lovastatin, and atorvastatin. Cyclosporine also inhibits the organic anion transporter protein (OATP1B1)-mediated hepatic uptake of simvastatin ( 177 , 178 ). Statins metabolized by other cytochromes (e.g. fluvastatin
