Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


of simvastatin, lovastatin, and atorvastatin. Cyclosporine also inhibits the organic anion transporter protein (OATP1B1)-mediated hepatic uptake of simvastatin ( 177 , 178 ). Statins metabolized by other cytochromes (e.g. fluvastatin or rosuvastatin) or statins not significantly metabolized by CYP enzymes (pravastatin), may be a favorable choice in this patient population due to the decreased risk of drug-drug interactions ( 179 ). However, pravastatin and fluvastatin doses should still be lowered due to cyclosporine inhibition of the OATP1B1-mediated hepatic uptake and patients should be monitored for statin associated muscle symptoms. Furthermore, fluvastatin has been shown to reduce CV events and lower LDL-C concentrations in transplant recipients receiving immunosuppressive therapy with cyclosporine ( 180 ). mTOR Kinase Inhibitors Sirolimus and everolimus inhibit the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and are immunosuppressants used to prevent rejection following organ transplantation. The mTOR complex is involved in lipoprotein synthesis and insulin resistance. Inhibitors of mTOR increase triglycerides, VLDL, and LDL through inhibition of LDL function and inhibition of the breakdown of apolipoproteins apoB100 and apoCIII ( 21 ). Dyslipidemia can occur in more than half of patients taking these medications. Everolimus has been shown to increase total cholesterol by 47.4 mg/dl (95% CI 37.5-57.3) and triglycerides by 28.9 mg/dl (95% CI 20.7-37.1) and sirolimus resulted in higher levels of TG and LDL compared to cyclosporine and tacrolimus ( 181 ). Transplant patients are at an increased risk of ASCVD for a number of reasons, including the effect on immunosuppressants on the lipid profile. Therefore, it is important to monitor lipid levels and initiate lipid lowering therapy when appropriate, while taking into account pharmacological drug interactions. Kinase Inhibitors Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors are immune modulating drugs that inhibit cell proliferation, differentiation, and immune regulation ( 182 ). These drugs were originally developed and approved for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) but there are now used for many other chronic inflammatory conditions ( Table 5 ) ( 182 , 183 ). There have been safety signals concerning for an increased risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) and venous thromboembolic events (VTE) ( 183 ). Data supporting these risks comes mostly from older patient populations with RA and at least 1 CV risk factor and a meta-analysis of JAK inhibitors in a younger patient population with dermatologic indications did not find an increased risk of MACE or VTE ( 184 ). Some of the JAK inhibitors cause a dose-dependent
