Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


inhibitors in a younger patient population with dermatologic indications did not find an increased risk of MACE or VTE ( 184 ). Some of the JAK inhibitors cause a dose-dependent increase in TC, LDL-C, and HDL-C ( Table 5 ). Inflammation is well known to decrease TC, LDL-C, and HDL-C and drugs that reduce inflammation may lead to an increase in TC, LDL-C, and HDL-C ( 56 ). This is known as the ‘lipid paradox’ in which a reduction in systemic inflammation and disease activity can result in elevations of lipid levels that represent a return to baseline levels. JAK inhibitors may also influence hepatic lipid metabolism and there may be specific polymorphisms in JAK genes that result in higher lipid levels in some individuals.( 185 ) One systematic review found that the JAK inhibitors used in RA result in a pooled increase in LDL-C from baseline of 11.37 mg/dl (95% CI 7.84-14.91) and an increase in HDL-C from baseline of 8.11 mg/dl (95% CI 6.65-9.58) ( 182 ). These increases were observed within the first few weeks of therapy and stabilized by the third month. This study did not find a significant difference in ASCVD risk between JAK inhibitors and placebo or other active agents. Patients on JAK inhibitors should regularly be monitored for dyslipidemia and a lipid profile should be checked at baseline, 4-12 weeks after initiating a JAK inhibitor, and periodically thereafter. Lipid-lowering agents may be necessary, especially in patients with a history of ASCVD or at high risk for CVD. Table 5: FDA Approved Janus Kinase Inhibitors View in own window JAK Inhibitor FDA Approved Indications Effect on Lipid Profile LDL-C HDL-C TG Abrocitinib Atopic dermatitis ↑ ↑ ↑ Baricitinib Alopecia areata Rheumatoid arthritis ↑ ↑ ↔ Deucravacitinib* Plaque psoriasis ↔ ↔ ↑ Deuroxolitinib Alopecia areata ↑ ↑ ↑ Fedratinib* Myelofibrosis ↔ ↔ ↔ Momelotinib Myelofibrosis ↔ ↔ ↔ Pacritinib* Myelofibrosis ↔ ↔ ↔ Ritlecitinib*** Alopecia areata ↔ ↔ ↔ Ruxolitinib Myelofibrosis Polycythemia vera ↑ ↑ ↑ Tofacitinib Ankylosing spondylitis Psoriatic arthritis Rheumatoid arthritis Ulcerative colitis ↑ ↑ ↑ Upadacitinib Ankylosing spondylitis Atopic dermatitis Crohn disease Psoriatic arthritis Rheumatoid arthritis Ulcerative colitis ↑ ↑ ↑ * Selective for Janus kinase2 (JAK 2). ** Selective for Janus kinase 3 (JAK3). ANTIVIRAL THERAPY Protease Inhibitors Protease inhibitors (PIs) are potent antiretroviral drugs used in combination with other drugs as part of a antiretroviral regimen for the treatment of
