Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


kinase 3 (JAK3). ANTIVIRAL THERAPY Protease Inhibitors Protease inhibitors (PIs) are potent antiretroviral drugs used in combination with other drugs as part of a antiretroviral regimen for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) ( 186 ). These PIs have substantial clinical benefits, but can also produce lipodystrophy, hyperlipidemia, and insulin resistance ( 187 , 188 ). The hyperlipidemia is thought to be caused by increases in VLDL production and intermediate density lipoproteins (IDL) with the potential to cause endothelial dysfunction and atherosclerosis. Enzymes imperative for the removal of triglyceride rich lipoproteins are also decreased in HIV patients. This includes lipoprotein lipase and hepatic lipase. PI associated insulin resistance and abnormal expression of the apolipoprotein C-III gene may also induce dyslipidemia ( 189 ). Studies evaluating PIs have shown increases in TC as well as TG with little to no effects on HDL-C and inconsistent increases in LDL-C levels ( 190 ). The main increase being in triglyceride-containing lipoproteins supports the mechanism of a release of free fatty acids and resulting increase in synthesis of VLDL causing these changes. While all PIs can change lipid levels, ritonavir appears to have the greatest effects and has also been reported to cause cases of extreme hyperlipidemia. During a randomized, 4-week double blind study, ritonavir was associated with at least a doubling of the serum TG level in 24 (61%) patients compared to only 4 (19%) patients on placebo (p=0.003) and seven subjects had TG levels exceeding 1000 mg/dL ( 191 ). Patients with high serum TG levels are at a higher risk of pancreatitis, which has been reported after protease inhibitor therapy ( 192 ). Therefore, the long-term complications of elevated lipids in the setting of HIV should be taken into consideration in patients treated with PIs. Guideline supported lipid lowering therapy and efforts to modify other CV risk factors should be initiated in patients ( 193 ). Recently, pitavastatin 4mg daily was associated with a 36% relative risk reduction in major adverse cardiovascular events over 5.6 years in a phase 3 study of adults with HIV receiving antiretroviral therapy ( 194 ). In this study, subjects had low-to-intermediate 10-year ASCVD risk and those with known ASCVD were excluded, indicating a lower risk population. For a detailed discussion of the lipid abnormalities in patients living with HIV see the Endotext chapter entitled “Lipid Disorders in People with HIV” ( 195 ). Direct
