Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


risk population. For a detailed discussion of the lipid abnormalities in patients living with HIV see the Endotext chapter entitled “Lipid Disorders in People with HIV” ( 195 ). Direct Acting Antivirals Regimens of direct acting antivirals (DAAs) have vastly changed the treatment of chronic hepatitis C (CHC) since the approval of sofosbuvir in 2014. The DAAs have shown to be more effective than previous standard of care (interferon-based treatments such as pegylated interferon and ribavirin) in producing sustained virologic response (SVR) of ≥90% and are associated with fewer side effects ( 196 ). There are currently four classes of DAAs, defined by their mechanism of action and therapeutic target (NS3/4A inhibitors, protease inhibitors [PIs], NS5B inhibitors and NS5A inhibitors) ( 196 ). Recommended regimens today consist of multiple antivirals that target different sites to improve efficacy and decrease resistance rates. While the hepatitis C virus itself can impact lipid metabolism, treatment with a DAA regimen has been associated with short term increases in LDL-C, TC, and HDL-C ( 197 ). There do not appear to be any significant effects on TG’s. This effect may result from a cancellation of the suppressive effect from HCV viral replication or from direct pharmacologic activity of the DAA’s themselves ( 198 ). The magnitude of effect does seem to vary based on DAA regimen with an increase in LDL-C of up to 27% reported. A pooled analysis of observational studies found an increase in total cholesterol of 15.86 mg/dl (95% CI 9.68 to 22.05) after 4 weeks of treatment with a DAA regimen and a similar increase in LDL-C of 13.77 mg/dl (95% CI 9.30 to 18.24) ( 199 ). Furthermore, a meta-analysis found that these results may be sustained and that total cholesterol and LDL-C levels were still increased a year after treatment compared with before treatment with no effect on TGs ( 200 ). Additional studies are needed to elucidate the exact mechanism of action and which regimens have the greatest impact. Elimination of HCV can lead to improved cardiovascular outcomes and reduced risk of diabetes and insulin resistance and the benefit of treating HCV likely outweighs the modest changes in TC and LDL-C. Patients with ASCVD or high CV risk should be educated about potential alterations in lipid parameters and more monitoring in these individuals is prudent. However, it is important to acknowledge that many of these agents have pharmacokinetic
