Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


should be educated about potential alterations in lipid parameters and more monitoring in these individuals is prudent. However, it is important to acknowledge that many of these agents have pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions with statins. Clinicians may elect to temporarily hold statin therapy which may also contribute to changes in the lipid profile during the treatment period. INTERFERONS Interferons are associated with a wide range of systemic complications including neuropsychiatric changes, fatigue, and bone marrow suppression. Although metabolic side effects are less frequent, α interferon is known to inhibit lipoprotein lipase, stimulate hepatic lipogenesis, and is associated with an increase in TG ( 201 , 202 ). A cohort study of patients with chronic hepatitis C on treatment with various forms of α interferon were evaluated for changes in TG and TC ( 202 ). Overall, mean serum TG levels rose 40% at 12 weeks and returned to baseline by 24 weeks after stopping therapy. However, the effect on individual patients was variable and 41 patients (27%) experienced TGs that more than doubled from baseline. There was no significant change in TC noted. The long-term complications of this have not been evaluated and no patients in the study developed acute pancreatitis. It appears that any significant clinical consequence from this rise in TG is extremely rare. There did not seem to be a difference in change in levels based on the specific form of α interferon that was used, including the long-acting PEGylated forms. As the landscape for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C has transitioned to interferon-free regimens with DAAs, this is irrelevant in these patients. However, this effect on TG has been seen in the treatment with interferons for other illnesses, including chronic myelogenous leukemia and other cancers ( 203 , 204 ). Patients receiving interferon treatment for the treatment of cancer can be considered for anti-dyslipidemic medications to manage secondary hypertriglyceridemia ( 205 ). OTHER DRUGS THAT AFFECT LIPOPROTEIN LEVELS Various other drugs have been reported to affect lipid and/or lipoprotein levels ( Table 6 ). Lipid changes from these drugs are based on limited data, are reported inconsistently, and could be due to other disease related aspects. Thus, the effects on serum lipid levels cannot fully be substantiated. Table 6. Other Drugs that Affect Lipid and/or Lipoproteins View in own window Aminosalicylic acid Antacids Ascorbic Acid Aspirin Cimetidine/ranitidine Danicopan Elacestrant L-asparaginase Mitapivat Neomycin Olezarsen Omaveloxolone Ponesimod Revumenib
