Medication Induced Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, lipid, effects, increase, ldl-c, patients, therapy, hdl-c, treatment, effect, lipoprotein, journal, metabolism, clinical


substantiated. Table 6. Other Drugs that Affect Lipid and/or Lipoproteins View in own window Aminosalicylic acid Antacids Ascorbic Acid Aspirin Cimetidine/ranitidine Danicopan Elacestrant L-asparaginase Mitapivat Neomycin Olezarsen Omaveloxolone Ponesimod Revumenib MANAGEMENT Several medication classes or individual medications can affect the lipid profile, both positively and negatively. Risk factors include elevated lipid levels at baseline and high cardiovascular risk patients. Identifying potential medications as the cause of these changes and monitoring the lipid profile while on therapy can provide value to the care of the patient. However, the long-term implications of these drugs on ASCVD mortality and morbidity remains unknown and there is limited evidence on the overall impact of these drug-induced changes. A thorough risk-benefit analysis of each treatment should be done based on individual patient factors. In general, if negative changes in the lipid profile are observed during therapy, replacement with an equivalent alternative therapy can be recommended. If no equivalent therapy is available and treatment must be initiated, then monitoring of serum lipid levels is vital. The use of existing guidelines for the management of dyslipidemia in the general population can be referred to and in extreme cases; the use of the suspected medication should be reassessed. REFERENCES 1. Feingold KR. Approach to the Patient with Dyslipidemia. In: Feingold KR, Anawalt B, Blackman MR, Boyce A, Chrousos G, Corpas E, de Herder WW, Dhatariya K, Dungan K, Hofland J, Kalra S, Kaltsas G, Kapoor N, Koch C, Kopp P, Korbonits M, Kovacs CS, Kuohung W, Laferrère B, Levy M, McGee EA, McLachlan R, Muzumdar R, Purnell J, Sahay R, Shah AS, Singer F, Sperling MA, Stratakis CA, Trence DL, Wilson DP, eds. Endotext. South Dartmouth (MA); 2025. 2. Vodnala D, Rubenfire M, Brook RD. Secondary causes of dyslipidemia. The American journal of cardiology 2012; 110:823-825 [ PubMed : 22658245 ] 3. Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, Beam C, Birtcher KK, Blumenthal RS, Braun LT, de Ferranti S, Faiella-Tommasino J, Forman DE, Goldberg R, Heidenreich PA, Hlatky MA, Jones DW, Lloyd-Jones D, Lopez-Pajares N, Ndumele CE, Orringer CE, Peralta CA, Saseen JJ, Smith SC, Jr., Sperling L, Virani SS, Yeboah J. 2018 AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA Guideline on the Management of Blood Cholesterol: A Report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation 2019; 139:e1082-e1143 [ PMC free article : PMC7403606 ] [ PubMed : 30586774 ] 4. Henkin Y, Como JA, Oberman A.
