Monogenic Disorders Altering HDL Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, deficiency, hdl-c, apo, pubmed, cholesterol, hdl, disease, a-i, hdl-c levels, apo a-i, patients, low, ascvd, lcat


ABSTRACT Very low HDL-C levels (<20mg/dL) may be due to severe elevations in triglycerides, very poorly controlled diabetes, inflammation, infections, malignancy, liver disease, and certain medications such as anabolic steroids. Additionally, variants in multiple genes that each have a small effect but cumulatively lead to a decrease in HDL-C can result in very low HDL-C levels. Finally, rare monogenic disorders such as familial hypoalphalipoproteinemia, Tangier disease, and lecithin acyltransferase (LCAT) deficiency can lead to very low HDL-C levels. In this chapter we discuss the lipid abnormalities and clinical features of these monogenic disorders causing very low HDL-C levels. An elevated concentration of apo A-I and apo A-II is called hyperalphalipoproteinemia (HALP). HALP is classified as moderate (HDL-C levels between 80 and 100 mg/dL) or severe (HDL-C levels > 100 mg/dL). HALP is a heterogeneous condition caused by a variety of genetic and secondary conditions (for example ethanol abuse, primary biliary cirrhosis, multiple lipomatosis, emphysema, exercise, and certain drugs such as estrogens). In many individuals HALP has a polygenic origin. Monogenic HALP includes CETP deficiency, hepatic lipase deficiency, endothelial lipase deficiency, and loss of function mutations in SRB1. In this chapter we discuss the lipid abnormalities and clinical features of these monogenic disorders causing HALP. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . LOW HDL CONDITIONS The inverse relationship between HDL-C and ASCVD risk is well established but it should be recognized that while this association is consistently observed recent genetic and cardiovascular outcome studies suggest that this association is not causal ( 1 ). However, as discussed below major reductions in HDL-C induced by specific monogenic disorders may increase the risk of ASCVD. Isolated low HDL-C levels can occur; however, it is more commonly found in association with hypertriglyceridemia and/or elevated apo B levels, typically as part of the obesity/metabolic syndrome ( 2 ). Patients with very low HDL-C (<20 mg/dL) in the absence of severe hypertriglyceridemia, very poorly controlled diabetes, inflammation, infections, malignancy, liver disease, anabolic steroids, or a paradoxical response to PPAR agonists are very rare (<1% of the population) ( 3 , 4 ). These individuals may have a very rare monogenic disorder associated with marked HDL deficiency, including familial hypoalphalipoproteinemia, Tangier disease, and lecithin acyltransferase (LCAT) deficiency. Table 1 summarizes the genetic, lipid, and clinical features of these monogenic low HDL conditions. Inheritance is autosomal co-dominant with
