Monogenic Disorders Altering HDL Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, deficiency, hdl-c, apo, pubmed, cholesterol, hdl, disease, a-i, hdl-c levels, apo a-i, patients, low, ascvd, lcat


including familial hypoalphalipoproteinemia, Tangier disease, and lecithin acyltransferase (LCAT) deficiency. Table 1 summarizes the genetic, lipid, and clinical features of these monogenic low HDL conditions. Inheritance is autosomal co-dominant with heterozygotes having decreases in HDL-C levels approximately midway between normal and homozygotes ( 3 ). In some individuals the decrease in HDL-C can be polygenic i.e., variants in multiple genes that each have a small effect but cumulatively lead to a decrease in HDL-C ( 5 ). Table 1. Characteristics of Monogenic Low HDL Syndromes View in own window Effected genes Lipids Clinical features Familial hypoalpha-lipoproteinemia apo A-I/apo C-III/ apo A-IV apo A-I/apo C-III apo A-I Apo AI undetectable, marked deficiency in HDL-C, low – normal triglycerides, normal LDL-C Xanthomas Premature ASCVD Corneal manifestations Tangier disease ABCA1 HDL species exclusively preß-1, HDL-C <5 mg/dL LDL-C low (half normal) Hepatosplenomegaly Enlarged tonsils Neuropathy ASCVD (6-7 th decade) LCAT deficiency LCAT HDL-C <10 mg/dL apo A-I 20-30 mg/dL <36% cholesteryl esters Low LDL-C Presence of Lp-X particles FLD develop corneal opacities (“fish eye”), normochromic anemia and proteinuric end stage renal disease FED only develop corneal opacities Inheritance is autosomal co-dominant with heterozygotes having decreases in HDL-C levels approximately midway between normal and homozygotes ( 3 ). FLD- Familial Lecithin: Cholesteryl Ester Acyltransferase Deficiency; FED- Fish Eye Disease Familial Hypoalphalipoproteinemia Familial hypoalphalipoproteinemia is a heterogeneous group of apolipoprotein A-I (apo A-I) deficiency states. This disorder is the rarest cause of monogenic severe HDL deficiency ( 6 ). These various conditions are characterized by the specific apolipoprotein genes that are affected on the apo A-I/C-III/A-IV gene cluster ( 3 ). The genes for these 3 apolipoproteins (apo A-I, apo C-III, and apo A-IV) are grouped together in a cluster on human chromosome 11. In patients with apo A-I/C-III/A-IV deficiency, apoA-1 is undetectable in the plasma and is associated with marked deficiency in HDL-C, low triglyceride levels (due to apo C-III deficiency), and normal LDL-C levels ( 3 ). Heterozygotes have plasma HDL-C, apo A-I, apo A-IV, and apo C-III levels that are about 50% of normal ( 3 ). This condition is associated with aggressive, premature ASCVD. Additionally, there is evidence of mild fat malabsorption due to deficiency of apo A-IV. Patients with apo A-I/C-III deficiency have undetectable apo A-I and a similar lipid profile as those with apo A-I/C-III/A-IV deficiency ( 3 ). This condition is also associated with premature ASCVD. It is
