Monogenic Disorders Altering HDL Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, deficiency, hdl-c, apo, pubmed, cholesterol, hdl, disease, a-i, hdl-c levels, apo a-i, patients, low, ascvd, lcat


A-I/C-III deficiency have undetectable apo A-I and a similar lipid profile as those with apo A-I/C-III/A-IV deficiency ( 3 ). This condition is also associated with premature ASCVD. It is distinguished from the former by presence of planar xanthomas and absence of fat malabsorption (since apo A-IV is present). Familial apo A-I deficiency is itself a heterogeneous group of disorders associated with numerous Apo A-I mutations ( 3 ). Common manifestations include undetectable plasma Apo A-I, marked HDL deficiency with normal LDL-C and triglyceride levels, xanthomas (planar, tendon, and/or tubero-eruptive depending on the specific gene mutation), and premature ASCVD. Some forms of the disease are also associated with corneal manifestations, including corneal arcus and corneal opacification. One of the interesting manifestations of familial apo A-I deficiency is that levels of apo A-IV and apo E containing HDL particles are only modestly reduced, with preserved electrophoretic mobility and particle size ( 7 ). It is notable that familial hypoalphalipoproteinemia is associated with an increased risk of premature ASCVD presumably due to the marked deficiency in Apo A-I and HDL. Given the increased ASCVD risk associated with Apo A-I deficiency, treatment is directed towards aggressive reduction of LDL-C and non-HDL-C levels and reducing other cardiovascular risk factors. Some mutations in Apo A-I are associated with low HDL-C levels and hereditary amyloidosis and are the second most frequent cause of familial amyloidosis ( 6 , 8 ). Note that HDL-C levels are not always decreased in patients with familial amyloidosis secondary to Apo A-I mutations. The N-terminal fragment of the mutated protein is found in the amyloid fragments. Tangier Disease Tangier disease is due to mutations in the gene that codes for ATP-Binding Cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) and is inherited in an autosomal co-dominant manner ( 9 , 10 ). Fredrickson first reported this condition in two patients who hailed from Tangier Island in the Chesapeake Bay, for which the disorder is named. ABCA1 facilitates efflux of intracellular cholesterol from peripheral cells to lipid poor A1, the key first step of reverse cholesterol transport ( 11 ). As such, this disorder is characterized by severe deficiency of HDL-C (HDL-C <5 mg/dL) and the presence of only the preß-1 HDL fraction of HDL ( 10 ). The poorly lipidated Apo A-I is rapidly catabolized by the kidney. These patients also demonstrate moderate hypertriglyceridemia and low LDL-C levels ( 10 ). The decrease in LDL-C
