Monogenic Disorders Altering HDL Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, deficiency, hdl-c, apo, pubmed, cholesterol, hdl, disease, a-i, hdl-c levels, apo a-i, patients, low, ascvd, lcat


10 ). The poorly lipidated Apo A-I is rapidly catabolized by the kidney. These patients also demonstrate moderate hypertriglyceridemia and low LDL-C levels ( 10 ). The decrease in LDL-C is likely due to absence of the transfer of cholesterol from HDL to LDL. Studies have also suggested that an increase in LDL uptake by the liver also occurs ( 12 ). The increase in triglycerides may be due to the failure of HDL to provide co-factors that increase lipoprotein lipase activity. Additionally, ABCA1 deficiency in the liver increases triglyceride secretion and hepatic angiopoietin-like protein 3 secretion which could inhibit lipoprotein lipase activity leading to an increase in triglycerides ( 12 , 13 ). Since ABCA1 deficiency impairs free cholesterol efflux from cells, there is accumulation of cholesterol esters in many tissues throughout the body ( 10 ). Classically, patients present with hepatosplenomegaly and enlarged yellow-orange hyperplastic tonsils, however, a wide spectrum of phenotypic manifestations is now appreciated with considerable variability in terms of clinical severity and organ involvement ( 9 , 10 ). Peripheral neuropathies are also a common complication and may be relapsing-remitting or chronic progressive ( 9 , 10 ). Tangier disease patients appear to have an increased risk of premature ASCVD, though not as pronounced as those with familial hypoalphalipoproteinemia ( 3 , 9 , 14 ). When the non-HDL-C levels are greater than 70mg/dL patients with Tangier disease are at higher risk of ASCVD whereas when the non-HDL-C levels are less than 70mg/dL ASCVD is low ( 9 ). Less common complications include corneal opacities and hematological manifestations such as thrombocytopenia and hemolytic anemia ( 9 , 10 ). Individuals who are heterozygous for ABCA1 mutations have HDL-C levels that are variable but approximately 50% of normal with normal levels of preß-1 HDL but a deficiency of large α-1 and α-2 HDL particles ( 10 ). Cholesterol efflux capacity in heterozygotes has been reported as ~50% of normal. A mutation in one ABCA1 allele has been associated with increased risk of ASCVD in some studies and with no increase in ASCVD risk in other studies ( 15 - 20 ). Different mutations in ABCA1 result in varying HDL-C levels and phenotypes, which might explain the difference in ASCVD risk ( 21 ). While Tangier patients manifest characteristically low HDL-C and Apo A-I, this lipid/lipoprotein phenotype is not adequate to make the diagnosis. ABCA1 gene sequence
