Monogenic Disorders Altering HDL Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, deficiency, hdl-c, apo, pubmed, cholesterol, hdl, disease, a-i, hdl-c levels, apo a-i, patients, low, ascvd, lcat


difference in ASCVD risk ( 21 ). While Tangier patients manifest characteristically low HDL-C and Apo A-I, this lipid/lipoprotein phenotype is not adequate to make the diagnosis. ABCA1 gene sequence analysis is the preferred test to make the diagnosis of Tangier disease ( 10 ). Alternatively, non-denaturing two-dimensional electrophoresis followed by anti-apo A-I immunoblotting demonstrates only preβ1-HDL. Currently, there is no specific treatment for Tangier disease ( 10 ). In fact, HDL-C raising therapies such as niacin and fibrates have proven ineffective in patients with this condition ( 22 ). Even HDL infusion was not beneficial ( 23 ). The major clinical issue in Tangier patients is disabling neuropathy; however, there is no effective intervention to manage this complication ( 10 ). Aggressive LDL-C lowering and treatment of other risk factors for atherosclerosis is recommended ( 10 ). LCAT Deficiency LCAT is an enzyme that is bound primarily to HDL, with some also found on LDL ( 24 , 25 ). It facilitates cholesterol esterification by transferring a fatty acid from phosphatidyl choline to cholesterol ( 24 , 25 ). The hydrophobic cholesteryl esters are then sequestered in the core of the lipoprotein particles. LCAT is critical in the maturation of HDL particles. LCAT deficiency is an autosomal co-dominant disorder that manifests as either familial LCAT deficiency (FLD) or fish-eye disease in homozygotes (FED) ( 24 , 25 ). In FLD, mutations in LCAT lead to the inability of LCAT to esterify cholesterol in both HDL and LDL, whereas in FED, mutations in LCAT lead to the inability of LCAT to esterify cholesterol in HDL but the ability of LCAT to esterify cholesterol in LDL is preserved ( 24 , 25 ). Patients with FLD have virtually no cholesterol esters in the circulation while patients with FED have subnormal levels of cholesterol esters carried in apo B containing lipoproteins ( 24 , 25 ). Heterozygotes having decreases in HDL-C levels approximately midway between normal and homozygotes. Individuals with FLD develop corneal opacities (“fish eye”), normochromic hemolytic anemia (due to cholesterol enrichment of red blood cell membranes), mild thrombocytopenia, and proteinuric end stage renal disease, which is the major cause of morbidity and mortality ( 24 , 25 ). The corneal opacities begin early in life and some patients may need corneal transplants. The rate of development of renal disease is variable but in a large cohort renal failure occurred at
