Monogenic Disorders Altering HDL Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, deficiency, hdl-c, apo, pubmed, cholesterol, hdl, disease, a-i, hdl-c levels, apo a-i, patients, low, ascvd, lcat


opacities begin early in life and some patients may need corneal transplants. The rate of development of renal disease is variable but in a large cohort renal failure occurred at a median age of 46 years ( 26 ). Patients with FED generally only manifest corneal opacities ( 24 , 25 ). The lipid and lipoprotein profile in patients with FLD usually demonstrates low HDL-C levels (frequently <10 mg/dL) ( 24 , 27 ). In one cohort patients with FED tend to have higher HDL-C levels but in a large systematic review HDL-C levels were similar in patients with FLD and FED ( 24 , 27 ). LDL-C levels tend to be low in FLD and FED while triglyceride levels are increased ( 24 , 27 ). Lipoprotein X (Lp-X) particles are present in patients with FLD but not in patients with FED ( 24 ). Lp-X is a multilamellar vesicle with an aqueous core. It is primarily composed of free cholesterol and phospholipid with very little protein (albumin in the core and apolipoprotein C on the surface) and cholesteryl ester. Given the association of Lp-X and kidney disease only with FLD (and not FED) and animal studies demonstrating the nephrotoxicity of Lp-X, it is likely that increased levels of Lp-X results in renal dysfunction in patients with FLD ( 25 , 28 ). Lp-X particles accumulate in the mesangial cells in the glomerulus and are thought to induce inflammation and breakdown of the basement membrane leading to proteinuria. It is notable that after renal transplantation in patients with FLD there is recurrence of renal damage in the transplanted kidney ( 26 ). It is unclear as to whether LCAT deficiency is associated with an increased risk of ASCVD ( 25 , 29 ). Atherosclerosis imaging studies have yielded divergent data and the number of patients with FLD or FED studied is limited ( 25 , 29 ). In one study carriers of FLD mutations (i.e., heterozygotes) had a decrease in ASCVD while carriers of FED mutations had an increase in ASCVD ( 30 ). This may have been due to higher LDL-C levels in the carriers of FED mutations ( 30 ). Current management of FLD focuses on managing the renal dysfunction. The associated kidney disease is traditionally managed with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, and a low-fat diet ( 25 ). Whether lipid lowering drugs are beneficial
