Monogenic Disorders Altering HDL Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, deficiency, hdl-c, apo, pubmed, cholesterol, hdl, disease, a-i, hdl-c levels, apo a-i, patients, low, ascvd, lcat


the renal dysfunction. The associated kidney disease is traditionally managed with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, and a low-fat diet ( 25 ). Whether lipid lowering drugs are beneficial is unknown. Possible future therapies include enzyme replacement therapy with recombinant human LCAT, liver-directed LCAT gene therapy, small peptide or molecule activators of LCAT, and HDL mimetics ( 31 , 32 ). Infusions of recombinant human LCAT has improved the anemia and most parameters of renal function in a patient with FLD ( 33 ). Administration of CER-001, an apolipoprotein A1 (apoA-1)–containing HDL mimetic, has been shown to have beneficial effects on kidney and eye disease in a patient with LCAT deficiency ( 34 ). Approach to the Patient with Low HDL-C Levels When encountering a patient with very low HDL-C levels it is important to first determine if this is a new abnormality or has been present for a long time. If prior HDL-C levels are normal, this excludes a primary monogenic etiology. If the decrease in HDL-C is new, one should consider the possibility of very poorly controlled diabetes, inflammation, infections, malignancy, liver disease, paraproteinemia, anabolic steroids, or a paradoxical response to PPAR agonists. Marked hypertriglyceridemia can also lead to very low HDL-C levels. In a patient with long-standing very low HDL-C levels without an identifiable secondary cause, one should consider a monogenic etiology. To evaluate potential monogenic causes, a detailed family history, with attention to HDL-C levels, is important. Obtaining lipid levels from relatives is very helpful. A focused physical examination, with particular attention to the skin, eyes, tonsils, and spleen may point to a specific monogenic disorder. Plasma apo A-I levels should be obtained. Individuals with familial hypoalphalipoproteinemia deficiency have undetectable plasma apo A-I. Patients with Tangier disease demonstrate very low apo A-I levels (<5 mg/dL). LCAT deficiency is associated with apo A-I levels that are low but substantially higher than the other monogenic etiologies. Patients with LCAT deficiency also have a higher ratio of free: total cholesterol in plasma and measurement of plasma free (unesterified) cholesterol can be helpful. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis of plasma followed by immunoblotting with antibodies specific for apo A-I separates lipid-poor preß-HDL from lipid-rich–HDL and can be helpful in differentiating these disorders. Genetic analysis is indicated when a monogenic disorder is suspected. HIGH HDL-C CONDITIONS (HYPERALPHALIPOPROTEINEMIA) An elevated concentration of apo A-I and apo A-II is called hyperalphalipoproteinemia (HALP). HALP is
