Monogenic Disorders Altering HDL Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, deficiency, hdl-c, apo, pubmed, cholesterol, hdl, disease, a-i, hdl-c levels, apo a-i, patients, low, ascvd, lcat


disorders. Genetic analysis is indicated when a monogenic disorder is suspected. HIGH HDL-C CONDITIONS (HYPERALPHALIPOPROTEINEMIA) An elevated concentration of apo A-I and apo A-II is called hyperalphalipoproteinemia (HALP). HALP is classified as moderate (HDL-C levels between 80 and 100 mg/dL) or severe (HDL-C levels > 100 mg/dL). While it is well recognized that high HDL-C levels are associated with a decrease in ASCVD it should be noted that very high HDL-C levels are paradoxically associated with an increase in ASCVD ( 35 , 36 ). HALP is a heterogeneous condition caused by a variety of genetic and secondary conditions (for example ethanol abuse, primary biliary cirrhosis, multiple lipomatosis, emphysema, exercise, and certain drugs such as estrogens). In many individuals, the very high HDL-C levels have a polygenic origin ( 5 , 37 ). Given the focus of this chapter, monogenic causes of HALP will be reviewed. Monogenic HALP includes CETP deficiency, hepatic lipase deficiency, endothelial lipase deficiency, and loss of function mutations in SRB1. Despite epidemiology that demonstrates an inverse relationship between HDL-C and ASCVD risk, some forms of familial HALP are paradoxically associated with increased cardiovascular risk. HALP is generally identified incidentally after routine assessment of a lipid profile as it is not usually associated with any signs or symptoms. Generally, patients are asymptomatic and no medical therapy is required. Cholesterol Ester Transfer Protein (CETP) Deficiency CETP transfers cholesteryl esters from HDL particles to triglyceride rich lipoproteins and LDL in exchange for triglycerides ( 11 ). Individuals who are homozygous for CETP variants have very high HDL-C levels (>100mg/dL) while heterozygotes have moderately increased HDL-C levels ( 38 - 41 ). LDL-C and apo B levels may be normal or modestly decreased. The increase in HDL cholesterol are largely due to the accumulation of cholesterol esters ( 39 ). The decrease in LDL-C is due to the failure of cholesterol ester transport from HDL to apo B containing lipoproteins. There is a predominance of small LDL particles. Individuals who are heterozygotes for CETP mutations show modestly elevated HDL-C levels ( 38 , 39 ). In Japanese individuals with HDL-C levels > 100mg/dL 67% were demonstrated to have CETP gene mutations ( 42 ). CETP deficiency is the most important and frequent cause of HALP in Japan. CETP deficiency is common in other Asian populations but is relatively rare in other ethnic groups ( 39 ). Despite extensive studies the
