Monogenic Disorders Altering HDL Levels
KEYWORDS: levels, deficiency, hdl-c, apo, pubmed, cholesterol, hdl, disease, a-i, hdl-c levels, apo a-i, patients, low, ascvd, lcat


and frequent cause of HALP in Japan. CETP deficiency is common in other Asian populations but is relatively rare in other ethnic groups ( 39 ). Despite extensive studies the effect of CETP variants on the risk of ASCVD is uncertain ( 38 - 40 , 43 ). A variety of studies have indicated that a decrease in LDL-C and non-HDL-C levels (i.e. pro-atherogenic lipoproteins) rather than an increase in HDL-C induced by CETP variants underlies a potential beneficial effect on ASCVD ( 44 ). Endothelial Lipase (EL) Deficiency Endothelial lipase (EL) is encoded by the LIPG gene and hydrolyzes phospholipids on HDL resulting in smaller HDL particles that are more rapidly metabolized ( 11 ). Genetic variants in LIPG have been identified Iin individuals with elevated HDL-C levels ( 38 , 39 ). As one would predict large HDL particles enriched in phospholipids are observed in individuals deficient in EL ( 39 ). Whether variants in LIPG leading to decreased EL activity and increased HDL-C levels reduces ASCVD risk is uncertain ( 38 - 40 ). Hepatic Lipase (HL) Deficiency Hepatic lipase (HL) is encoded by the LIPC gene and mediates the hydrolysis of triglycerides and phospholipids in intermediate density lipoproteins (IDL) and LDL leading to smaller particles (IDL is converted to LDL; LDL is converted from large LDL to small LDL) ( 11 ). It also mediates the hydrolysis of triglycerides and phospholipids in HDL resulting in smaller HDL particles ( 11 ). Several case reports of families with elevated HDL-C levels (HALP) caused by a genetically defined HL deficiency have been described ( 39 , 40 ). HL deficiency may also be associated with elevated triglycerides and cholesterol with increased intermediate density lipoproteins (IDL) ( 40 , 45 ). Several HL deficient individuals had premature ASCVD likely due to increased levels of apo B containing lipoproteins ( 40 , 45 ). Heterozygotes do not appear to have discrete lipoprotein abnormalities ( 45 ). Scavenger Receptor Class B Type I (SR-BI) Scavenger receptor class B type I (SR-BI) is encoded by the SCARB1 gene and facilitates the selective uptake of the cholesterol esters from HDL into the liver, adrenal, ovary, and testes ( 11 ). In macrophages and other cells, SR-B1 facilitates the efflux of cholesterol from the cell to HDL particles ( 11 ). SR-B1 deficient mice have an increase in atherosclerosis despite elevated HDL-C levels (
