J. Anat. (2007) 211, pp407–411 doi:
KEYWORDS: lymphoid, cells, tissue, fig, chicken, pyloric, tonsil, magnification, cell, tonsillar, lymphoid tissue, lymphoepithelial, pyloric tonsil, novel, fdc


J. Anat. (2007) 211, pp407–411 doi: BBlackwellR PublishinIg LtdEF COMMUNICATION Pyloric tonsil as a novel gut-associated lymphoepithelial organ of the chicken Nándor Nagy and Imre Oláh Abstract The pyloric tonsil is a novel peripheral lymphoepithelial organ of the gastrointestinal tract in the chicken. It forms a complete lymphoid ring at the beginning of the duodenum, where crypts of Lieberkühn are transformed to tonsillar crypts with lymphoepithelial lining. The oesophageal (described previously) and pyloric tonsils are characteristic of the chicken, while they are absent in mammals. The lymphoid system develops from the middle germ layer, the mesoderm, and forms connections with the ecto- and endoderm, namely the skin and gut, respectively. These connections are based on the lymphoepithelial lining of the crypts, and provide gates for environmental antigens. Recent findings, taken together with the literature, suggest that in birds the lymphoid system forms connections with the endoderm-derived organs that are anatomically and histologically more extensive than the ectoderm-derived ones, which may be explained by the absence of regional lymph nodes, and the less developed lymphoid circulation of the skin. Key words chicken; follicular dendritic cell; GALT; germinal centre; M cell; pyloric tonsil. birds the SALT is poorly understood, which may be Introduction explained by the absence of regional lymph nodes (Oláh & Birds and mammals are warm-blooded animals, and this Glick, 1983). may also be reflected in the functional similarity of their Many parts of the chicken GALT have already been immune systems. The basic histological framework of the described and named, e.g. the caecal tonsil (Oláh & Glick, secondary lymphoid organs is comparable in these vertebrate 1979), Peyer’s patches (Befus et al. 1980; Burns & Maxwell, species; namely, the separation of T- and B-dependent 1986), the diffusely infiltrated area of the cloaca (Dolfi regions is completed. et al. 1988) and Meckel’s diverticulum (Oláh et al. 1984; The lymphoid system develops from the middle germ Jeurissen et al. 1989), and the oesophageal tonsil (Oláh layer, the mesoderm. However, antigen information et al. 2003; Nagy et al. 2005). These lymphoid tissues are comes from the environment through the outer and inner stable, permanent structures of the gastrointestinal tract, germ layers, i.e. the ectoderm and endoderm, respectively. but scattered solitary nodules occur in the pharynx, on the Therefore, the lymphoid system should create structural top of the glandular units of the proventriculus, and in the and functional connections with both germ layers. The
