J. Anat. (2007) 211, pp407–411 doi:
KEYWORDS: lymphoid, cells, tissue, fig, chicken, pyloric, tonsil, magnification, cell, tonsillar, lymphoid tissue, lymphoepithelial, pyloric tonsil, novel, fdc


(Fig. 1A), unlike Peyer’s patches, which are found only in followed by dehydration in ethanol, embedding in a the anti-mesenteric side of the gut. The pyloric lymphatic Polybed/Araldite 6500 mixture (Polysciences) and sectioning. tissue is sharply limited in both proximal and distal The 1-μm-thick semithin sections were stained with directions (Fig. 1B) and consists of at least 15–20 tonsillar toluidine blue. For transmission microscopy, ultrathin units in the circumference of the gut. sections were contrasted with uranyl acetate and lead The tonsillar units are well observed on both paraffin- citrate. For haematoxylin-eosin staining specimens were embedded, haematoxylin-eosin-stained (Fig. 1C) and fixed in buffered formalin and embedded in paraffin. immunocytochemical stained sections (Fig. 1D–G). CD45- positive haemopoietic cells occupy both the interfollicular regions and the germinal centres (GCs) (Fig. 1D), while the Immunocytochemistry majority of the B cells are restricted to the germinal Immunostaining was performed on 20-μm-thick cryostat centres (Fig. 1E). The dense interfollicular regions are sections. Briefly, the junction of the gizzard and small loaded with CD3 T cells (Fig. 1F). Many of them, helper intestine was excised and fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde cell-expressing CD4 and few CD8 cytotoxic cells (data not in Dulbecco’s phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) for 1 h. shown) immigrate into the GCs. Collagen III, the main After rinsing in PBS the tissue samples were infiltrated collagen type occurring in the reticular fibres, is present in with 15% sucrose/PBS at 4 °C overnight. The medium was the ‘capsule’ of the tonsillar units, but surprisingly completely changed for 7.5% gelatin containing 15% sucrose at 37 °C absent in the germinal centres (Fig. 1G). for 1 h. Tissue samples were rapidly frozen at –60 °C in Crypts of Lieberkühn of the duodenum are transformed isopentane (Sigma, Hungary). The cryostat sections were to tonsillar crypts and lined by the lymphoepithelium (LE) collected on poly-L-lysine-coated slides (Sigma), air-dried (Fig. 1H). The number of Bu1b-positive B cells (Fig. 1I) is and rehydrated in PBS before immunostaining. Rehydra- low in the LE compared with the number of CD45-positive tion was followed by incubation with primary antibodies cells, suggesting that the majority of the lymphoid cells in (Table 1), biotinylated horse anti-mouse IgG (Vector the LE are T cells. Among the epithelial cells lining the Laboratories, Inc., Burlingame, CA, USA), and avidin- crypt, M cells also occur (Fig. 1J). Many lymphocytes, biotinylated peroxidase complex (Vectastain Elite ABC kit, probably T cells, are present at
