J. Anat. (2007) 211, pp407–411 doi:
KEYWORDS: lymphoid, cells, tissue, fig, chicken, pyloric, tonsil, magnification, cell, tonsillar, lymphoid tissue, lymphoepithelial, pyloric tonsil, novel, fdc


the Laboratories, Inc., Burlingame, CA, USA), and avidin- crypt, M cells also occur (Fig. 1J). Many lymphocytes, biotinylated peroxidase complex (Vectastain Elite ABC kit, probably T cells, are present at the lateral surface of the M Vector) for 45 min each. Before ABC incubation the cells (Fig. 1J). endogenous peroxidase activity was quenched by 3% Remarkably high numbers of germinal centres are hydrogen peroxide (Sigma) in PBS. The binding sites of the present in the tonsillar unit (Fig. 1E–G). The majority of the primary antibodies were visualized by 4-chloro-1-naphtol germinal centres are close to the muscular layer of the Table 1 Primary antibodies used Cell Antibody specificity Antibodies Source of antibody Haemopoietic cell CD45 antigen clone HIS-C7 CEDI-Diagnostics T cell CD3 antigen clone CT3 Gift from Chen-Lo Chen, Birmingham, AL, USA B cell Bu-1b antigen clone 11G2 Gift from Olli Vainio, Turku, Finland Dendritic cell vimentin intermediate filament clone AMF-17b DSHB, Iowa, USA Dendritic cell surface IgG clone CG-106 Sigma-Aldrich Kft, Hungary Dendritic cell unknown clone CVI-ChNL-74.3 CEDI-Diagnostics Connective tissue collagen type III clone 3B2 DSHB, Iowa, USA Mesenchymal reticular cells desmin clone D3 DSHB, Iowa, USA © 2007 The Authors Journal compilation © 2007 Anatomical Society of Great Britain and Ireland The pyloric tonsil as a novel lymphoepithelial organ, N. Nagy and I. Oláh 409 Fig. 1 Pyloric tonsil of an 8-week-old chicken. (A) CD45-stained cross-section of the pyloric region. Lymphoid tissue occupies the entire mucosal layer of the gut. Magnification: 8×. (B) Haematoxylin-eosin (HE)-stained longitudinal section of the pyloric region. Lymphoid tissue shows sharp borders both proximally and distally. Magnification: 12×. (C) HE-stained cross-section of the pyloric region. The tonsillar units are outlined by dashed lines. Magnification: 24×. (D) CD45+ haemopoietic cells form the germinal centres (GC) and fill up the interfollicular region (IF) in the tonsillar units. Magnification: 24×. (E) Bu-1b+ B cells are densely packed in the GC, most of which is close to the capsule of the tonsillar unit. Magnification: 24×. (F) CD3+ T cells are accumulated in the interfollicular regions, but a significant number of CD3-positive cells also occur in the GCs. Magnification: 24×. (G) Anti-collagen III monoclonal antibody staining outlines the GCs, but the GC itself is free of collagen III. Magnification: 24×. (H) CD45+ cells infiltrate the crypt epithelium creating lymphoepithelial (LE) tissue. Magnification: 140×. (I) The number of Bu1b+ B cells in the LE is low compared with CD45+ cells. Magnification:
