J. Anat. (2007) 211, pp407–411 doi:
KEYWORDS: lymphoid, cells, tissue, fig, chicken, pyloric, tonsil, magnification, cell, tonsillar, lymphoid tissue, lymphoepithelial, pyloric tonsil, novel, fdc


(H) CD45+ cells infiltrate the crypt epithelium creating lymphoepithelial (LE) tissue. Magnification: 140×. (I) The number of Bu1b+ B cells in the LE is low compared with CD45+ cells. Magnification: 140×. (J) Semithin section stained with toluidin blue. Close to the M cell (arrows) lymphoid cells heavily infiltrate the surface epithelium. Magnification: 1200×. (K) The supportive reticular cells through the GC form a fine desmin intermediate filament web. Magnification: 130×. (L) Anti-vimentin staining recognizes intermediate filaments in the follicular dendritic cells of the GC. Magnification: 130×. (M) Anti-IgG staining. FDCs are located in the centre of the GC leaving an FDC-free margin under the GC capsule. Magnification: 130×. (N) Toluidin blue-stained semithin section showing elongated mature FDC, an FDC process with cytoplasmic granules (arrow), and an immature FDC (arrowhead). Magnification: 1600×. O) Toluidin blue-stained semithin section showing immature FDC with bulky cytoplasm containing few granules (arrows). Magnification: 1600×. (P) Monoclonal antibody 74.3 recognizes cytoplasmic antigen in the FDCs. Magnification: 130×. © 2007 The Authors Journal compilation © 2007 Anatomical Society of Great Britain and Ireland 410 The pyloric tonsil as a novel lymphoepithelial organ, N. Nagy and I. Oláh The classic tonsilar structures at the entrance (Oláh et al. 2003) and the exit of the stomach occur in birds, and are absent in mammals, but in mammals solitary nodules may occasionally be found. The absence of these well- organized lymphoid tissues in mammals could explain why they have been ignored by avian immunologists. The presence and absence of oesophageal and pyloric tonsils in birds and mammals, respectively, suggest that these lymphoid tonsils are specific to avian species. Thus, the oesophageal and pyloric tonsils at the entrance of the stomach and at the beginning of the small intestine immu- nologically mark the stomach and the small intestine, respectively. The gut-associated lymphoid tissues occur in two forms: Fig. 2 Transmission electron micrograph of a follicular dendritic cell. In (1) under the surface epithelium solitary nodules and the FDC the cytoplasmic granules are localized on one side of the nucleus aggregated nodules with interfollicular dense lymphoid and the cell surface is covered by electron-dense extracellular substance tissue; and (2) tonsils, where the surface epithelium (arrows). A process of an FDC with two granules is wedged between the produces simple or branching pits, crypts or fossulae to lymphoblasts (L). Magnification: 4500×. increase the surface contact of the lymphoid tissue. In the aggregated nodules and
