J. Anat. (2007) 211, pp407–411 doi:
KEYWORDS: lymphoid, cells, tissue, fig, chicken, pyloric, tonsil, magnification, cell, tonsillar, lymphoid tissue, lymphoepithelial, pyloric tonsil, novel, fdc


is wedged between the produces simple or branching pits, crypts or fossulae to lymphoblasts (L). Magnification: 4500×. increase the surface contact of the lymphoid tissue. In the aggregated nodules and tonsils the lymphoid tissue is organized to B- and T-dependent regions, which are intestine and their collagen ‘capsule’ fuses with the ‘capsule’ represented by germinal centres and interfollicular dense of the unit. The ovoid or circular GCs, unlike the mammalian lymphoid tissue between the GCs, respectively. In the tonsil with the crypt epithelium (Fig. 1E–G). Inside the germinal tonsillar unit, which is separated from the others by a fine centre, besides the supportive reticular cells, follicular connective tissue capsule, and establishes a functional, dendritic cells (FDCs), few macrophages and lymphoid cells immunological, pathological unit of the tonsil. No ‘capsule’ can be histologically and immunocytochemically distinguished. occurs around the aggregated nodules. The epithelium, The supportive reticular cells produce desmin, a muscle-specific lining the tonsillar crypt or covering the aggregated produce collagen III-positive reticular fibres (Fig. 1G), like transforming the surface epithelium to LE tissue, which the mammalian GCs. The FDC can be identified by provides a ‘gate’ for antigen access into the lymphoid vimentin intermediate filaments (Fig. 1L) and anti-IgG tissue. In this respect the LE may serve functionally as an because their surface membrane is ‘sticky’ for IgG. The IgG ‘afferent lymphatic’ for the GALT. In mammals, antigens staining is restricted to the ‘perikaryon’; the elongated cell from the GALT can gain access to the mesenteric lymph Anti-IgG staining indicates that the FDCs are localized in barrier for antigen spreading. However, in the chicken, the centre of the GC, resulting in a peripheral margin free due to the absence of the mesenteric lymph nodes, the of FDCs (Fig. 1M). Toluidin blue-stained semithin section antigen can enter the blood via mesenteric lymphatics, reveals two morphologically different forms of FDCs. One and thus the second barrier of antigen spreading is absent, of them is highly elongated and contains many cytoplasmic which may be balanced by the highly developed tonsillar granules in one of the cytoplasmic processes, while the system at the entrance of the stomach, and the intestine. other shows an ovoid nucleus and few cytoplasmic We have previously described a tonsillar structure in the granules surrounding the Golgi region (Fig. 1N,O). They birds at the cardia, named oesophageal tonsil (Oláh et al. represent mature and immature forms of FDC, respectively. 2003;
