Adrenal Cortex: Embryonic Development, Anatomy, Histology and Physiology
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, cells, cortex, adrenal cortex, zona, medulla, endocrinol, converted, steroid, bornstein, fig, adrenal gland, reticularis, glomerulosa


ABSTRACT The adrenal glands consist of the adrenal cortex and medulla, which have distinct, albeit interdependent functional properties. The adrenal cortex contains the zona glomerulosa that produces mineralocorticoids, the zona fasciculata that is the site of glucocorticoid biosynthesis, and the zona reticularis , which is responsible for the production of adrenal androgens. In this chapter, we discuss the embryonic development, anatomy, histology and physiology of the adrenal cortex. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The adrenal gland was first described by Eustachius in 1563 and its importance was later recognized by the work of Thomas Addison in 1855 and Brown-Sequard in 1856 ( 1 - 3 ). The latter performed a series of bilateral adrenalectomies in dogs, demonstrating that these endocrine glands were necessary for life ( 2 , 3 ). In the midst of the 19th century, newly emerged histochemical techniques showed that the adrenal consists of a cortex and medulla and have divergent albeit interdependent cellular and functional properties. Indeed, the adrenal cortex consists of the zona glomerulosa , the zona fasciculata, and the zona reticularis , which respectively produce mineralocorticoids (aldosterone), glucocorticoids (cortisol in man and corticosterone in rodents), and adrenal androgens ( 4 , 5 ). On the other hand, the adrenal medulla contains chromaffin cells, which are responsible for the biosynthesis and secretion of the catecholamines epinephrine and norepinephrine. Adrenal cortex hormones are steroid molecules, which are derived from cholesterol through serial conversions catalyzed by specific enzymes, the “steroid hydroxylases” that belong to the cytochrome P450 (CYP) superfamily. This biochemical process is known as “adrenal steroidogenesis” ( 4 , 5 ). At the molecular and cellular level, adrenal cortex hormones mediate their pleiotropic actions through binding to their cognate receptors, which are nuclear receptors that function as ligand-activated transcription factors, influencing gene expression in a positive or negative fashion ( 4 , 5 ). EMBRYONIC DEVELOPMENT OF ADRENAL CORTEX The adrenal gland is composed of two embryologically distinct tissues, the cortex and medulla, arising from the mesoderm of the urogenital ridge and ectodermal neural chromaffin cells, respectively ( 6 , 7 ). An isolated clump of cells appears within the urogenital ridge, known as the adrenal-gonadal primordium, at 28-30 days post conception. These cells express the transcription factor steroidogenic factor-1 (SF1 or Ad4BP or NR5A1), which contributes substantially to adrenal development and steroidogenesis.
