Adrenal Cortex: Embryonic Development, Anatomy, Histology and Physiology
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, cells, cortex, adrenal cortex, zona, medulla, endocrinol, converted, steroid, bornstein, fig, adrenal gland, reticularis, glomerulosa


as the adrenal-gonadal primordium, at 28-30 days post conception. These cells express the transcription factor steroidogenic factor-1 (SF1 or Ad4BP or NR5A1), which contributes substantially to adrenal development and steroidogenesis. Adrenal-gonadal primordium gives rise to the fetal adrenal cortex and to Leydig cells. At 7-8 weeks of gestation, the adrenal cortex consists of a large inner zone, the fetal zone (FZ), and a small outer zone, the definitive zone (DZ) ( 8 , 9 ). At the end of the 9 th week of gestation, adrenals become fully encapsulated ( 10 ). The main steroid of the FZ is dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), as cells within this zone express the enzyme cytochrome P450 17α (CYP17A1) ( 7 ). Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) secreted by the human placenta and the chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla stimulates DHEA secretion by the FZ ( 11 ). DHEA is converted into 16-hydroxy-DHEA by the fetal liver and is converted into estriol by the placenta ( 12 ). After birth, shrinkage of the fetal zone due to increased apoptotic activity occurs, leading to a decrease of the weight of adrenal glands by 50% ( 13 ). In the next three years, cells of the DZ and, to a lesser extent, cellular remnants of the FZ differentiate into the three functionally and histologically distinct zones: the outer zona glomerulosa , the intermediate zona fasciculata , and the inner zona reticularis ( 4 , 5 ). ANATOMY OF THE ADRENAL CORTEX The adrenal glands are located in the retroperitoneum on the top of the kidneys. They are surrounded by a stroma of connective tissue that maintains adrenal structure, termed the “capsule” ( 4 , 5 ). Blood Supply With an estimated flow rate of about 5 ml per minute, though small in size, the adrenal glands are among the most extensively vascularized organs ( Fig. 1 ). Blood supply is maintained by up to fifty arterial branches for each adrenal gland, which arise directly from the aorta, the renal arteries, and the inferior phrenic arteries. Blood is channeled into the subcapsular arteriolar plexus, and subsequently distributed to the sinusoids, that then supply the adrenal cortex and medulla. Endothelial cells were demonstrated to interfere with adrenocortical cells through specific factors and the vasculature seems to play a crucial role for the zonation and function of the adrenal cortex. A direct blood supply of the medulla is maintained by shunt arterioles
