Adrenal Cortex: Embryonic Development, Anatomy, Histology and Physiology
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, cells, cortex, adrenal cortex, zona, medulla, endocrinol, converted, steroid, bornstein, fig, adrenal gland, reticularis, glomerulosa


and the vasculature seems to play a crucial role for the zonation and function of the adrenal cortex. A direct blood supply of the medulla is maintained by shunt arterioles ( 14 , 15 ). After supplying the cortex and medulla, blood collects at the cortico-medullary junction and drains through the central adrenal vein to the renal vein or directly into the inferior vena cava. Figure 1. Extensively vascularized adrenal cortex. Innervation The adrenal cortex receives afferent and efferent innervation ( Fig 2 ). A direct contact of nerve terminals with adrenocortical cells has been suggested ( 16 ) and chemoreceptors and baroreceptors present in the adrenal cortex infer efferent innervation ( 17 , 18 ). Diurnal variation in cortisol secretion and compensatory adrenal hypertrophy are influenced by adrenal innervation ( 19 , 20 ). Splanchnic nerve innervation has an effect in the regulation of adrenal steroid release ( 20 ). Figure 2. Silver-stained nerve cells (dark spots) and fibers (dark lines). HISTOLOGY OF THE ADRENAL CORTEX In contrast to the fetal cortex, which is constructed from primarily the zona fetalis, the adult adrenal cortex consists of three anatomically distinct zones ( Fig. 3 ): 1. The outer zona glomerulosa , site of mineralocorticoid production (e.g., aldosterone), mainly regulated by angiotensin II, potassium, and ACTH. In addition, dopamine, atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and other neuropeptides modulate adrenal zona glomerulosa function. 2. The central zona fasciculata , responsible mainly for glucocorticoid synthesis, is regulated by ACTH. In addition, several cytokines (IL-1, IL-6, TNF), neuropeptides, and catecholamines influence the biosynthesis of glucocorticoids. 3. The inner zona reticularis , site of adrenal androgen (predominantly dehydroepiandrostenedione [DHEA], DHEA sulfate [DHEA-S] and Δ4-androstenedione) secretion, as well as some glucocorticoid production (cortisol and corticosterone). Figure 3. Double immunostained cross-section of a human adrenal gland for 17-α-Hydroxylase and chromogranin A. zM = adrenal medulla, zR = zona reticularis, zF = zona fasciculata, zG = zona glomerulosa, Caps = adrenal capsule. Adrenocortical cells are arranged in a cord-like manner, extending from the adrenal capsule to the medulla, and are embedded within a widespread capillary network. These cells are rich in mitochondria and smooth endoplasmic reticulum, which form an extended network of anastomosing tubules. Zona glomerulosa cells are scattered and produce and secrete aldosterone ( 5 ). The zona fasciculata contains large cells replete with lipids, the “clear cells”, which synthesize and release cortisol ( 5 ). The zona
