Adrenal Cortex: Embryonic Development, Anatomy, Histology and Physiology
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, cells, cortex, adrenal cortex, zona, medulla, endocrinol, converted, steroid, bornstein, fig, adrenal gland, reticularis, glomerulosa


and produce and secrete aldosterone ( 5 ). The zona fasciculata contains large cells replete with lipids, the “clear cells”, which synthesize and release cortisol ( 5 ). The zona reticularis consists of cells containing lipofuscin granules, termed “compact” cells that are responsible for adrenal androgen biosynthesis and secretion. This cellular zone develops at the age of 5 years in females and 6 years in males, a physiologic process termed as “adrenarche” ( 5 ). In some rat species, a fourth zone can further be distinguished, the zona intermedia , between the glomerulosa and the fasciculata currently postulated to be a site of initiation of adrenocyte proliferation and differentiation and a zone containing the adrenal cortical stem cells. However, evidence suggests that adrenocortical cells arise within or underneath the capsule under the influence of sonic hedghog signaling and move centripetally along gradients towards the border to the adrenal medulla where they form cortical islets and / or undergo apoptosis ( 14 , 21 , 22 ). It may even be possible that cortical cells adopt different functional states as they “wander” from their origin somewhere in the outer cortex and pass along blood vessels into the direction of the innermost cortex through the different zones. In addition to adrenocortical cells, macrophages are distributed throughout the adrenal cortex ( 23 ). In addition to their phagocytic activity, they produce and secrete cytokines (TNFb, IL-1, IL-6) and peptides (VIP), which interact with adrenocortical cells and influence their functions ( 24 - 26 ). Lymphocytes are scattered in the adrenal cortex ( Fig. 4 ), and have been shown to produce ACTH-like substances ( 27 ). It has also been shown, that immuno-endocrine interactions between lymphocytes and adrenal zona reticularis cells can stimulate dehydroepiandrosterone production ( 28 , 29 ). Figure 4. Lymphocytes (dark spots), immunostained for CD 45. PHYSIOLOGY OF THE ADRENAL CORTEX The most important function of the adrenal cortex is adrenal steroidogenesis that occurs in all three cellular zones ( 5 ). This physiologic process is regulated by distinct systems, depending on steroid type produced. Aldosterone production by the zona glomerulosa depends on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system and serum potassium concentrations, and, to a lesser extent on plasma ACTH concentrations. Cortisol biosynthesis by the zona fasciculata is triggered by ACTH. Adrenal androgens are produced by the zona reticularis , which is also regulated by ACTH and other as
