Bookshelf_NBK619577
KEYWORDS: individuals, related, syndrome, hao-fountain, affected, hao-fountain syndrome, related hao-fountain, pathogenic, genetic, affected individuals, variant, testing, developmental, pathogenic variant, intellectual


NLM Citation: Schaaf C, Sailer S. USP7-Related Hao-Fountain Syndrome. 2025 Dec 4. In: Adam MP, Bick S, Mirzaa GM, et al., editors. ® Seattle; 1993-2026. Bookshelf URL: USP7-Related Hao-Fountain Syndrome Synonym: USP7-Related Neurodevelopmental Disorder 1 2 Created: December 4, 2025. Summary Clinical characteristics USP7-related Hao-Fountain syndrome is characterized by developmental delay in 100% of individuals, although intellectual disability is variable, with up to 50% of affected individuals having intellect in the normal range. Muscular hypotonia is also common; this tends to improve over time, but some affected individuals develop hypertonia. About two thirds of affected individuals have an abnormal/unsteady gait and about one quarter have contractures, most commonly involving large joints and joints of the lower extremities. Neuropsychiatric features can include autism, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and behavioral issues such as stubbornness and compulsivity. Feeding difficulties are common and can require special feeding techniques, including use of a feeding tube. Gastroesophageal reflux disease, dysphagia, and hyperphagia have also been reported. Eye and vision issues (hyperopia, strabismus, nystagmus) are seen in more than 50% of affected individuals. About half of affected individuals have impaired bone mineralization, which can lead to fractures. Findings in fewer than 50% of individuals include epilepsy, sleep disturbance, hypogonadism, scoliosis, and hearing loss. Diagnosis/testing The diagnosis of USP7-related Hao-Fountain syndrome is established in a proband with suggestive findings and a heterozygous pathogenic variant in USP7 identified by molecular genetic testing. Management Treatment of manifestations: Feeding therapy for poor weight gain / dysphagia; gastrostomy tube placement may be required for persistent feeding issues; consultation with a dietician when hyperphagia and/or obesity is 2+ present; adequate intake of Ca and vitamin D for reduced bone mineral density. Standard treatment for developmental delay / intellectual disability, epilepsy, gastroesophageal reflux disease, diarrhea, constipation, eye Heidelberg, Germany; Email: . 2 GeneReviews ® issues, sleep disturbance, cryptorchidism, micropenis, hypothyroidism, growth hormone deficiency, adrenal insufficiency, and hearing loss. Surveillance: At each visit, measure growth parameters; evaluate nutritional status and safety of oral intake; monitor for signs/symptoms of constipation and gastroesophageal reflux disease; monitor those with seizures; assess for new manifestations such as seizures, changes in tone, and gait abnormalities; monitor developmental progress and educational needs; monitor for scoliosis, contractures, mobility, and self-help skills; monitor for evidence of aspiration, respiratory insufficiency, and sleep disturbance (including for signs/symptoms of sleep apnea); monitor for signs and symptoms of puberty starting at about age seven years to the late
