Bookshelf_NBK619577
KEYWORDS: individuals, related, syndrome, hao-fountain, affected, hao-fountain syndrome, related hao-fountain, pathogenic, genetic, affected individuals, variant, testing, developmental, pathogenic variant, intellectual


evidence of aspiration, respiratory insufficiency, and sleep disturbance (including for signs/symptoms of sleep apnea); monitor for signs and symptoms of puberty starting at about age seven years to the late teenage years. Annually, behavioral assessment for anxiety, ADHD, autism spectrum disorder, aggression, and self-injury; evaluate for hypothyroidism; audiology evaluation (in childhood). Assess bone mineral density every two years starting at age five years and then every three to five years in adulthood. Ophthalmology evaluation and endocrinologic tests for adrenal insufficiency as clinically indicated. Genetic counseling USP7-related Hao-Fountain syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder typically caused by a de novo pathogenic variant. Rarely, individuals diagnosed with USP7-related Hao-Fountain syndrome inherited a pathogenic variant from a parent. Each child of an individual with USP7-related Hao-Fountain syndrome has a 50% chance of inheriting the pathogenic variant. Once the USP7 pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Diagnosis No consensus clinical diagnostic criteria for USP7-related Hao-Fountain syndrome have been published. Suggestive Findings USP7-related Hao-Fountain syndrome should be considered in probands with the following clinical and brain MRI findings and family history. Clinical findings • Mild-to-severe developmental delay or intellectual disability AND • Any of the following features presenting in infancy or childhood: ⚬ Generalized hypotonia of infancy ⚬ Infant feeding difficulties ⚬ Moderate hyperphagia ⚬ Contractures (most commonly involving the large joints and the lower extremities) ⚬ Abnormal gait ⚬ Macrocephaly (rarely, microcephaly) ⚬ Seizures ⚬ Neurobehavioral/psychiatric manifestations, including autism spectrum disorder, attention-deficit/ hyperactivity disorder, and/or obsessive-compulsive behavior ⚬ Ophthalmologic involvement, such as hyperopia, strabismus, and/or nystagmus ⚬ Genitourinary anomalies, including cryptorchidism and/or micropenis in males Brain MRI findings. Paucity of white matter, including thinning of the splenium and body of the corpus callosum USP7-Related Hao-Fountain Syndrome 3 Family history. Because USP7-related Hao-Fountain syndrome is typically caused by a de novo pathogenic variant, most probands represent a simplex case (i.e., a single occurrence in a family). Rarely, the family history may be consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance (e.g., affected males and females in multiple generations). Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of USP7-related Hao-Fountain syndrome is established in a proband with suggestive findings and a heterozygous pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variant in USP7 identified by molecular genetic testing (see Table 1). Note: (1) Per American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics / Association for Molecular Pathology variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely
