Bookshelf_NBK619577
KEYWORDS: individuals, related, syndrome, hao-fountain, affected, hao-fountain syndrome, related hao-fountain, pathogenic, genetic, affected individuals, variant, testing, developmental, pathogenic variant, intellectual


molecular genetic testing (see Table 1). Note: (1) Per American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics / Association for Molecular Pathology variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely pathogenic variant" are synonymous [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this GeneReview is understood to include likely pathogenic variants. (2) Identification of a heterozygous USP7 variant of uncertain significance does not establish or rule out the diagnosis. Molecular genetic testing in a child with developmental delay or an older individual with intellectual disability may begin with exome sequencing / genome sequencing [Manickam et al 2021, van der Sanden et al 2023]. Other options include use of a multigene panel. Note: Single-gene testing (sequence analysis of USP7, followed by gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis) is rarely useful and typically NOT recommended. • An intellectual disability multigene panel that includes USP7 and other genes of interest (see Differenti al Diagnosis) is likely to identify the genetic cause of the condition while limiting identification of pathogenic variants and variants of uncertain significance in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. Given the rarity of USP7-related Hao-Fountain syndrome, some panels for intellectual disability may not include this gene. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype- focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/duplication analysis, and/or other non-sequencing-based tests. genetic tests can be found here. • Comprehensive genomic testing does not require the clinician to determine which gene(s) are likely involved. Exome sequencing is most commonly used and yields results similar to an intellectual disability multigene panel, with the additional advantage that exome sequencing includes genes recently identified as causing intellectual disability, whereas some multigene panels may not. To date, the majority of USP7 pathogenic variants reported (e.g., missense, nonsense) are within the coding region and are likely to be identified on exome sequencing. Genome sequencing is also possible. ordering genomic testing can be found here. 4 GeneReviews ® Table 1. USP7-Related Hao-Fountain Syndrome: Molecular Genetic Testing Proportion of Pathogenic Variants 2 Identified Gene 1 Method by
