Bookshelf_NBK619577
KEYWORDS: individuals, related, syndrome, hao-fountain, affected, hao-fountain syndrome, related hao-fountain, pathogenic, genetic, affected individuals, variant, testing, developmental, pathogenic variant, intellectual


to gut motility issues (although this requires further confirmatio n). Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) occurs in 37%-50% of affected individuals. • Infant feeding difficulties occurs in approximately 55% of affected children and can require special feeding techniques or use of a feeding tube [Fountain et al 2019, Wimmer et al 2024]. • In those with feeding difficulties, dysphagia can occur and can lead to increased risk of aspiration. • Approximately 39% of affected individuals have hyperphagia or food-seeking behavior and about one quarter are obese. • In some cases, prolonged neonatal jaundice has been reported. There is limited information on whether this is a conjugated or unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia. Ophthalmologic involvement. Eye anomalies and vision issues are reported in 53%-65% of affected individuals. Features may include: • Refractive errors, most frequently hyperopia • Strabismus • Nystagmus Endocrinologic. Hypogonadism, typically consisting of cryptorchidism and/or micropenis in males, occurs in 25%-44% of males. To date, two affected females have been reported with hypogonadism, one of them showing delayed puberty [Fountain et al 2019]. In some affected individuals, growth hormone deficiency , hypothyroidism, or adrenal insufficiency has been described. Musculoskeletal features USP7-Related Hao-Fountain Syndrome 7 • Scoliosis or kyphosis occurs in 30% of affected individuals. Slight progression of the musculoskeletal symptoms due to severe hypotonia is possible. • Joint contractures occur in about 24% of affected individuals [Fountain et al 2019, Priolo et al 2022, Wimmer et al 2024]. ⚬ The contractures tend to occur in large joints and in the joints of the lower extremities, but other joints (e.g., shoulder, elbows, or smaller joints) can also be affected. ⚬ Joint contractures do not appear to be congenital but are also not reported to be progressive. However, in severely affected individuals markedly elevated muscle tone may be observed. • Small hands and feet are seen in 25%-33% of affected individuals. • Bone age is delayed in 30% of affected individuals and bone mineralization is impaired in 54% of affecte d individuals. ⚬ About 36% of individuals show a bone health index in the range of osteopenia (1-2.5 standard deviations [SD] below the mean) and 18% manifest osteoporosis (bone health index more than 2.5 SD below the mean). ⚬ Some affected individuals experience stress fractures or fractures after inadequate trauma [CP Schaaf, unpublished data]. Hearing. Approximately 15% of affected individuals have impaired hearing. This can include disturbances of sound conduction due to recurrent middle ear
