Bookshelf_NBK619577
KEYWORDS: individuals, related, syndrome, hao-fountain, affected, hao-fountain syndrome, related hao-fountain, pathogenic, genetic, affected individuals, variant, testing, developmental, pathogenic variant, intellectual


or fractures after inadequate trauma [CP Schaaf, unpublished data]. Hearing. Approximately 15% of affected individuals have impaired hearing. This can include disturbances of sound conduction due to recurrent middle ear infections, non-progressive sensorineural hearing loss, and auditory processing issues. Dental. Approximately 55% of affected individuals have dental issues. These include amelogenesis imperfecta, oligodontia, hyperdontia, decreased stability (early need of crowns, breaking after inadequate trauma), diastema, large frontal teeth, and widely spaced teeth [CP Schaaf, unpublished data]. Facial features. Dysmorphic facial features are found in 90% of affected individuals; however, there is no spe cific facial gestalt [Fountain et al 2019, Priolo et al 2022]. Frequently described dysmorphic features include a broad forehead, deeply set eyes, and a low-hanging columella Prognosis. USP7-related Hao-Fountain syndrome represents a static condition and is not considered a progressive disease. It is unknown whether life span in USP7-related Hao-Fountain syndrome is abnormal. Since many adults with disabilities have not undergone advanced genetic testing, it is likely that adults with this condition are underrecognized and underreported. Reduced life span may be caused by secondary complications, such as severe scoliosis leading to restrictive lung disease and/or pneumonia. Genotype-Phenotype Correlations Individuals who have a missense pathogenic variant that impacts the catalytic domain of ubiquitin carboxyl- terminal hydrolase 7 (the protein encoded by USP7) tend to have a more severe phenotype. They are affected by more of the associated symptoms, have more neonatal complications, and show a more severe developmental delay / intellectual disability phenotype. There is no known difference in phenotypic severity between missense pathogenic variants outside of the catalytic domain and pathogenic variants leading to loss of function [Wimmer et al 2024] (see Molecular Genetics). Nomenclature USP7-related Hao-Fountain syndrome may also be referred to as USP7-related neurodevelopmental disorder based on the dyadic naming approach proposed by Biesecker et al to delineate mendelian genetic disorders. 8 GeneReviews ® Prevalence The prevalence of USP7-related Hao-Fountain syndrome is unknown. More than 250 individuals with this condition have been identified. Genetically Related (Allelic) Disorders No phenotypes other than those discussed in this GeneReview are known to be associated with germline pathogenic variants in USP7. Larger deletions of 16p13.2. At least six individuals who have larger deletions of 16p13.2 that include USP7 and adjacent genes have been reported [Hao et al 2015]. No characteristic difference in the phenotype of individuals who have larger deletions that include USP7 and those who have pathogenic variants
