Bookshelf_NBK619577
KEYWORDS: individuals, related, syndrome, hao-fountain, affected, hao-fountain syndrome, related hao-fountain, pathogenic, genetic, affected individuals, variant, testing, developmental, pathogenic variant, intellectual


provided. All ages. Consultation with a developmental pediatrician is recommended to ensure the involvement of appropriate community, state, and educational agencies (US) and to support parents in maximizing quality of life. Some issues to consider: • IEP services: ⚬ An IEP provides specially designed instruction and related services to children who qualify. ⚬ IEP services will be reviewed annually to determine whether any changes are needed. ⚬ Special education law requires that children participating in an IEP be in the least restrictive environment feasible at school and included in general education as much as possible, when and where appropriate. ⚬ Vision and hearing consultants should be a part of the child's IEP team to support access to academic material. ⚬ PT, OT, and speech services will be provided in the IEP to the extent that the need affects the child's access to academic material. Beyond that, private supportive therapies based on the affected individual's needs may be considered. Specific recommendations regarding type of therapy can be made by a developmental pediatrician. ⚬ As a child enters the teen years, a transition plan should be discussed and incorporated in the IEP. For those receiving IEP services, the public school district is required to provide services until age 21. • A 504 plan (Section 504: a US federal statute that prohibits discrimination based on disability) can be considered for those who require accommodations or modifications such as front-of-class seating, assistive technology devices, classroom scribes, extra time between classes, modified assignments, and enlarged text. • Developmental Disabilities Administration (DDA) enrollment is recommended. DDA is a US public agency that provides services and support to qualified individuals. Eligibility differs by state but is typically determined by diagnosis and/or associated cognitive/adaptive disabilities. • Families with limited income and resources may also qualify for supplemental security income (SSI) for their child with a disability. Motor Dysfunction Gross motor dysfunction • Physical therapy is recommended to maximize mobility and to reduce the risk for later-onset orthopedic complications (e.g., contractures, scoliosis, hip dislocation). 12 GeneReviews ® • Consider use of durable medical equipment and positioning devices as needed (e.g., wheelchairs, walkers, bath chairs, orthotics, adaptive strollers). • For muscle tone abnormalities including hypertonia or dystonia, consider involving appropriate specialists ® to aid in management of baclofen, tizanidine, Botox , anti-parkinsonian medications, or orthopedic procedures. Fine motor dysfunction. Occupational therapy is recommended for difficulty with fine motor skills that
