Bookshelf_NBK619577
KEYWORDS: individuals, related, syndrome, hao-fountain, affected, hao-fountain syndrome, related hao-fountain, pathogenic, genetic, affected individuals, variant, testing, developmental, pathogenic variant, intellectual


syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder typically caused by a de novo pathogenic variant. 14 GeneReviews ® Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • Most probands reported to date with USP7-related Hao-Fountain syndrome whose parents have undergone molecular genetic testing have the disorder as the result of a de novo USP7 pathogenic variant. • Rarely, individuals diagnosed with USP7-related Hao-Fountain syndrome inherited a USP7 pathogenic variant from a parent [Sun et al 2024; CP Schaaf, unpublished data]. Detailed phenotypic information on heterozygous parents is not currently available. • Molecular genetic testing is recommended for the parents of the proband to evaluate their genetic status and inform recurrence risk assessment. • If the pathogenic variant identified in the proband is not identified in either parent and parental identity testing has confirmed biological maternity and paternity, the following possibilities should be considered: ⚬ The proband has a de novo pathogenic variant. ⚬ The proband inherited a pathogenic variant from a parent with gonadal (or somatic and gonadal) mosaicism [CP Schaaf, unpublished data].* Note: Testing of parental leukocyte DNA may not detect all instances of somatic mosaicism and will not detect a pathogenic variant that is present in the gonadal (germ) cells only. * A parent with somatic and gonadal mosaicism for a USP7 pathogenic variant may be mildly/ minimally affected. Sibs of a proband. The risk to the sibs of the proband depends on the genetic status of the proband's parents: • If a parent of the proband is known to have the USP7 pathogenic variant identified in the proband, the risk to the sibs of inheriting the variant is 50%. • If the USP7 pathogenic variant found in the proband cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, the recurrence risk to sibs is estimated to be 1% because of the possibility of parental gonadal mosaicism [CP Schaaf, unpublished data]. Offspring of a proband. Each child of an individual with USP7-related Hao-Fountain syndrome has a 50% chance of inheriting the USP7 pathogenic variant. Other family members. The risk to other family members depends on the status of the proband's parents: if a parent has the USP7 pathogenic variant, the parent's family members may be at risk. Related Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is
