Bookshelf_NBK619577
KEYWORDS: individuals, related, syndrome, hao-fountain, affected, hao-fountain syndrome, related hao-fountain, pathogenic, genetic, affected individuals, variant, testing, developmental, pathogenic variant, intellectual


Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to parents of affected individuals. Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Once the USP7 pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. USP7-Related Hao-Fountain Syndrome 15 Differences in perspective may exist among medical professionals and within families regarding the use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing. While most health care professionals would consider use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing to be a personal decision, discussion of these issues may be helpful. Resources GeneReviews staff has selected the following disease-specific and/or umbrella support organizations and/or registries for the benefit of individuals with this disorder and their families. GeneReviews is not responsible for the • Foundation for Hao-Fountain Syndrome Email: usp7.org Molecular Genetics Information in the Molecular Genetics and OMIM tables may differ from that elsewhere in the GeneReview: tables may contain more recent information. —ED. Table A. USP7-Related Hao-Fountain Syndrome: Genes and Databases Gene Chromosome Locus Protein HGMD ClinVar USP7 16p13.2 Ubiquitin carboxyl- USP7 USP7 terminal hydrolase 7 Data are compiled from the following standard references: gene from HGNC; chromosome locus from OMIM; protein from UniProt. Table B. OMIM Entries for USP7-Related Hao-Fountain Syndrome (View All in OMIM) 602519 UBIQUITIN-SPECIFIC PROTEASE 7; USP7 616863 HAO-FOUNTAIN SYNDROME; HAFOUS Molecular Pathogenesis USP7 encodes ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase 7 (USP7), a ubiquitin-specific protease regulating the stability of various cellular proteins. It is involved in DNA damage response, transcription, epigenetic control of gene expression, immune response, and viral infection [Pozhidaeva & Bezsonova 2019]. It is assumed that the phenotype of USP7-related Hao-Fountain syndrome is caused by reduced complex formation between USP7, MAGE-L2, and TRIM27, leading to impaired protein recycling [Hao et al 2015]. Other functions of USP7 seem not to be sensitive to haploinsufficiency. USP7 consists of seven domains: an N-terminal TRAF-like domain, followed by the catalytic domain and five consecutive ubiquitin-like domains [Pozhidaeva & Bezsonova 2019, Nie et al 2022]. Missense pathogenic variants in the catalytic domain seem to lead to a more severe phenotype, assumed to lead to a dominant-negative effect [Wimmer et al 2024]. However, homozygous knockout of Usp7 is lethal in mice [Kon et al 2010]. Mechanism
