NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: asparaginase, liver, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, injury, leukemia, acute, days, pegaspargase, hepatotoxicity, hepatic, therapy, chemotherapy, liver injury


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Asparaginase. [Updated 2023 Sep 19]. Bookshelf URL: Asparaginase Updated: September 19, 2023. OVERVIEW Introduction Asparaginase is a bacterial enzyme that is used as an antineoplastic agent, largely in the therapy of acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). Asparaginase has many side effects, one of which is hepatic injury that is characterized by inhibition of hepatic protein synthesis, marked cholestasis and steatosis, which is usually reversible but can be severe and lead to death from hepatic failure. Background Asparaginase (as par' a jin ase), often referred to as L-asparaginase, is a bacterial enzyme that acts to decrease tissue stores of asparagine, a secondary amino acid that is important in the growth of many cancers. Asparaginase, prepared from E. coli, was introduced into cancer chemotherapy over 50 years ago and remains an important agent in the therapy of acute lymphocytic leukemia. Asparaginase has activity against other cancer types but is rarely used for other indications. Asparaginase was first approved for use in the United States in 1972 as an anticancer agent, with initial preparations being prepared from E. coli. Pegylated formulations of E. coli- derived asparaginase (pegaspargase) became available and were approved for use in 1994 and are currently available under the brand name Oncaspar. Another form of pegylated asparaginase referred to as calaspargase pegol (brand name Asparlas) was approved in 2018 as therapy of ALL in children and young adults (ages 1 month to 21 years). These preparations can be given every two (pegaspargase) or three (calaspargase) weeks and have largely replaced standard asparaginase. Asparaginase made from other bacteria (Erwinia chrysanthemi) was approved for use in the United States in 2011 under the brand name Erwinaze, and a recombinant form was originally approved in 2021 under the brand name Rylaze. Standard asparaginase is given either by intramuscular injection or, more typically, intravenous injection in doses of 25,000 IU/m three times weekly in 14-day cycles. Pegaspargase can also be given intramuscularly or intravenously, typically in a dose of 2500 IU/m every two or three weeks. Both standard and pegylated asparaginase are usually given in combination with other antineoplastic agents such as vincristine, mercaptopurine, methotrexate, daunorubicin, and prednisone. Asparaginase has many dose related toxicities including nausea, fever, hypersensitivity reactions (urticaria, wheezing), clotting abnormalities, bone marrow suppression, pancreatitis, hepatotoxicity and central nervous system toxicities. Hepatotoxicity Some abnormalities of liver test
