NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: asparaginase, liver, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, injury, leukemia, acute, days, pegaspargase, hepatotoxicity, hepatic, therapy, chemotherapy, liver injury


with standard and pegylated forms of asparaginase. Risk factors for clinically apparent liver injury include higher doses, older age and preexisting obesity, hyperlipidemia and diabetes. Although of unproven benefit, therapy with L-carnitine and vitamin B is often recommended. Interestingly, in many instances asparaginase therapy is tolerated after recovery from the acute episode with either no or milder liver injury (Case 2). Switching from an E. coli to an Erwinia chrysanthemi-derived asparaginase may also be less likely to induce a recurrence of hepatic injury. including severe nausea and vomiting, weakness, edema, pancreatitis and encephalopathy. Although hypersensitivity reactions to asparaginase are common (it is a bacterial not a human enzyme), these usually occur early before the appearance of liver injury and the hepatic injury is rarely accompanied by fever or eosinophilia or autoantibody formation. Likelihood score: A (well known cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Liver Injury Asparaginase is directly toxic to hepatocytes resulting in inhibition of protein synthesis and export of lipoproteins and lipids, with resultant steatosis and hepatic dysfunction. As with other forms of direct hepatotoxicity, the liver injury attributed to asparaginase arises rapidly, is dose related, and is rarely accompanied by with immunological features. The mechanism of the direct injury is not clear but may be the result of substrate depletion of asparagine or possibly arginine (as a consequence of argininase activity in the bacterial enzyme preparation). In animal models, asparaginase causes similar hepatic injury to that in humans. Hepatic injury with Erwinia-derived asparaginase may be less common than with E. coli-derived enzyme, but head-to-head comparisons have not been made. Outcome and Management Asparaginase is typically given in 14 or 28 day cycles while pegaspargase is given at two-week intervals, and consequently the hepatic injury may first become clinically apparent after the drug is stopped. Further use of asparaginase (with dose reduction) should be delayed until hepatic function has been restored. Patients receiving asparaginase should be monitored for hepatic function and the drug stopped or dose adjusted if liver test Asparaginase 3 complications are essential. Anecdotal reports suggest that intravenous infusions of L-carnitine (50 mg/kg daily in divided doses for 5 to 8 days or until the injury resolves) and vitamin B preparations may be helpful. The efficacy of L-carnitine in ameliorating or preventing hepatic injury from asparaginase has not been shown in prospective controlled trials, but the approach appears to be safe and without serious adverse
