NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: asparaginase, liver, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, injury, leukemia, acute, days, pegaspargase, hepatotoxicity, hepatic, therapy, chemotherapy, liver injury


Some cases are severe and associated with hepatomegaly, fatty metamorphosis, severe hepatic dysfunction, progressive jaundice and hepatic coma. The condition can progress for several weeks a fter stopping therapy and rare fatal instances such as the current case have been described. Complicating factors in this case were age and possibly preexisting liver disease. Asparaginase toxicity is not idiosyncratic, but there appears to be variable susceptibility to the injury, and risk factors include dose, age, obesity and preexisting diabetes. Early in the course, the fatty metamorphosis may be largely microvesicular steatosis, whereas later, a mixed or fully macrovesicular steatosis may be present. Unlike the acute fatty liver with hepatic failure that occurs with Reye syndrome and mitochondrial injury due to nucleoside analogues, the steatosis and liver injury associated with asparaginase is less commonly associated with lactic acidosis, hyperammonemia and hypoglycemia, although it can be accompanied by pancreatitis. Unlike the fatty liver that occurs with alcoholic and nonalcoholic liver disease (NASH), there is little ballooning degeneration, Mallory bodies or sinusoidal fibrosis. Case 2. Liver injury due to pegaspargase with recurrence on re- exposure.(2) A 33 year old woman with acute lymphocytic leukemia was treated with induction chemotherapy using daunorubicin, vincristine, methotrexate, cytarabine, prednisone, and pegaspargase. Routine liver tests were normal before starting chemotherapy. Pegaspargase was given as a single intravenous infusion of 2520 IU on day 4. She developed symptoms of fatigue, weakness, nausea, and poor appetite a week after the pegaspargase infusion. Her symptoms persisted, and two weeks later she noted dark urine and jaundice and was found to have abnormal liver tests. Serum bilirubin was 8.4 mg/dL, ALT 1076 U/L and alkaline phosphatase 314 U/L (Table). Serum albumin was 1.5 g/dL and INR 1.1. All chemotherapy was stopped, and she was hospitalized. An abdominal ultrasound showed changes suggestive of hepatic steatosis but no evidence of biliary obstruction or gall stones. Tests for hepatitis A, B and C were negative. She had low levels of ANA (1:80), but SMA and AMA were negative, and immunoglobulin levels were normal. She was monitored on no therapy. Liver tests began to improve, and chemotherapy was restarted. A single infusion of pegaspargase was given and a few weeks later she again developed fatigue and dark urine and liver tests rose: bilirubin from 0.8 to 3.8 mg/dL, ALT from 47 to 533 U/L, and Alk P from 194 to 1018 U/L. Chemotherapy was held and liver
