Images in…
KEYWORDS: brain, epilepsy, calcium, patient, hypocalcaemia, hypoparathyroidism, normal, mmol, range, seizures, serum, idiopathic, patients, investigations, normal range


Images in… Primary hypoparathyroidism: hypocalcaemia misdiagnosed as epilepsy Zhong Xhen Khor,1 Qiao Ying Pua,2 Yong Ting Tai3 Segamat, Segamat, Johor, Effective treatment of epilepsy depends on apt char- ally, she was fully conscious during these episodes Malaysia acterisation of the semiology and aetiology iden- and could vividly recall the events. No tonic- clonic Medicine Malaysia, Nusajaya, epilepsy are idiopathic in nature and workup is experience any postictal drowsiness or tongue Johor, Malaysia generally unrevealing. Nevertheless, investigations biting. Overall, these features were inconsistent such as plain CT brain, serum electrolytes and urine with epilepsy. Further investigations revealed a low BANDAR MELAKA, Melaka, Malaysia toxicology are typically the routine. In a resource- intact Parathyroid Hormone (iPTH: 0.58 pmol/L, limited setting, this is only occasionally feasible and normal range 1.58–6.03 pmol/L) and low 24- hour Correspondence to potentially correctable aetiologies are missed. urine calcium (0.2 mmol/24 hours; normal range Dr Zhong Xhen Khor; We report the case of a woman in her 20s who 2.5–7.5 mmol/24 hours). These results confirmed john. kzx123@ gmail. com was previously diagnosed with idiopathic gener- a diagnosis of hypoparathyroidism that was previ- alised epilepsy in her late teens. She was started on ously not identified. She was started on oral calcium Accepted 17 September 2023 50 mg lamotrigine once daily. No CT brain or serum carbonate 1.5 g three times per day, oral calcitriol electrolyte investigation was done, and the patient 0.5 μg two times per day and weaned off lamo- Her epilepsy was deemed well controlled until her stable (corrected calcium range: 2.0–2.1 mmol/L, presentation this year to our casualty with two recommended treatment range: 2.0–2.1 mmol/L) consecutive episodes of ‘seizures’. Chvostek and and she has since reported no more seizures. Trousseau signs were noted on arrival (no images The causes of hypoparathyroidism are diverse, were taken as the patient was in severe distress). The ranging from postsurgical thyroidectomy, auto- patient was of normal height (165 cm) and weight immune and infiltrative diseases, and radiation (55 kg), with no skeletal or dental deformities. The damage to abnormal development of the para- classical feature of pseudohypoparathyroidism, thyroid tissue. It can also be idiopathic. Extensive Archibald sign, was absent as her fourth and fifth workup for hypoparathyroidism is not available in digits were of normal length, without any dimpling our local setting. The main focus of management over the fourth or fifth knuckles on a clenched rests solely on
