Images in…
KEYWORDS: brain, epilepsy, calcium, patient, hypocalcaemia, hypoparathyroidism, normal, mmol, range, seizures, serum, idiopathic, patients, investigations, normal range


available in digits were of normal length, without any dimpling our local setting. The main focus of management over the fourth or fifth knuckles on a clenched rests solely on adequate replacement of calcium and fist. Her cardiovascular and pulmonary examina- phosphate. Treatment with calcium and vitamin D tions were normal and there were no neurological analogues might result in hypercalciuria, nephro- deficits; also, no skin rashes, periungual fibromas calcinosis and nephrolithiasis. As such, monitoring and angiokeratomas were seen. Routine laboratory of renal function, serum calcium and 24-h our urine investigations confirmed profound hypocalcaemia calcium is important.1 (corrected calcium: 0.7 mmol/L, normal range At the outset, as our patient has no family 2.25–2.62 mmol/L) and hyperphosphataemia (PO4: history of epilepsy and no neurocutaneous 2.4 mmol/L, normal range 1.1–1.8 mmol/L). Her manifestations (such as café au lait spots, symptoms improved remarkably with intravenous shagreen patches or periungual fibromas), her calcium infusion. A non- contrast CT brain revealed seizures were assumed to be idiopathic gener- diffuse intracranial calcifications (see figure 1). The alised epilepsy in nature. While separate clin- semiology of the seizures, past and present, was ical entities, features in hypocalcaemia such as clarified. During these episodes, she experienced Chvostek, Trousseau signs and laryngospasm limb weakness and spasms, perioral numbness, can sometimes be misinterpreted as generalised © BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2023. No commercial re- use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ. To cite: Khor ZX, Pua QY, Tai YT. BMJ Case Rep 2023;16:e257005. doi:- 257005 Figure 1 CT brain revealing diffuse basal ganglia, thalamic and cerebellar calcification. Khor ZX, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2023;16:e257005. doi: 1 Images in… tonic-c lonic seizures.2 A review of our patient’s previous Learning points records also revealed no baseline CT brain or serum elec- trolytes such as calcium, phosphate or magnesium. As such, ► Serum calcium and CT brain are an important part of workup the diagnosis of hypoparathyroidism was not made for years in epilepsy as they may uncover potential mimics, such as until the present admission. Identification and treating the hypocalcaemia in primary hypoparathyroidism. MRI brain is root of the problem, hypocalcaemia, is imperative as antie- also an invaluable tool as it may uncover any subtle structural pileptic drugs will not improve outcomes, exposing patients cause of epilepsy that is not easily seen in CT brain. to unnecessary pill burden and further side effects.3 4 ► Additionally, it is worth clarifying
