Images in…
KEYWORDS: brain, epilepsy, calcium, patient, hypocalcaemia, hypoparathyroidism, normal, mmol, range, seizures, serum, idiopathic, patients, investigations, normal range


improve outcomes, exposing patients cause of epilepsy that is not easily seen in CT brain. to unnecessary pill burden and further side effects.3 4 ► Additionally, it is worth clarifying the semiology in epilepsy In our patient, years of prolonged hypocalcaemia due to as it might uncover features that are not consistent with hypoparathyroidism resulted in extensive basal ganglia, cere- typical idiopathic generalised epilepsy and prompt further bellar and thalamic calcification. While intracranial calci- investigations. fications are generally benign, some patients may develop ► Hypocalcaemia in primary hypoparathyroidism needs to be neuropsychological dysfunctions. When this occurs, patients treated promptly to prevent more serious sequelae, such as are said to have Fahr syndrome, an irreversible neurode- Fahr syndrome, which may result in further morbidity. generative disorder characterised by seizures, parkinsonism and dementia with intracranial calcification. The extent of calcification on CT brain, however, correlates poorly Contributors ZXK was involved in the conception, design, acquisition of data, in our patient’s CT brain, despite the extensive intracranial QYP and YTT were involved in manuscript proofreading and gave final approval. involvement, she was still cognitively intact, able to carry Funding The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any and maintain a good relationship with her family. The devel- Competing interests None declared. opment of Fahr syndrome is thus variable. Clinicians have Patient consent for publication Consent obtained directly from patient(s) to be vigilant in the treatment of prolonged hypocalcaemia Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. and monitor patients for this potential complication.5 MRI Case reports provide a valuable learning resource for the scientific community and brain is also a valuable imaging in epileptic workup as it may can indicate areas of interest for future research. They should not be used in isolation not be easily identified in CT brain. Patient’s perspective
