Rare disease
KEYWORDS: disease, tsd, case, bmj, tay-sachs, juvenile, cherry-red, tay-sachs disease, mutation, normal, gene, gangliosidosis, indexed, hexosaminidase, cells


Rare disease Case report Unusual case of Juvenile Tay-Sachs disease Huma A Cheema, Nadia Waheed, Anjum Saeed Medicine, Division of Pediatric Tay-Sachs disease (TSD) is a type 1 gangliosidosis (GM2) situations but speech was incomprehensible to most Gastroenterology, Hepatology and caused by hexosaminidase A deficiency resulting of the audience. His voiding and bowel opening and Nutrition, Children’s in abnormal sphingolipid metabolism and deposition were in voluntary control with normal sleep pattern. Hospital and Institute of Child of precursors in different organs. It is a progressive He was born full-term, through uneventful neurodegenerative disorder transmitted in an autosomal- normal vaginal delivery and achieved all milestone recessive manner. There is an accumulation of GM2 appropriately for his age. At 3 years, he was able Correspondence to Dr Anjum Saeed, in neurocytes and retinal ganglions which result in to speak complete comprehensible meaningful anjuj2002@ gmail. com progressive loss of neurological function and formation sentences and could drive a tricycle. He started of the cherry-red spot which is the hallmark of TSD. schooling in the kindergarten at 4 years of age Accepted 30 August 2019 We report the first case of juvenile TSD from Pakistan which he left afterwards due to illness. He had three in a child with death of an older sibling without the courses of antibiotics for respiratory tract infections diagnosis. in the last 1 year otherwise was enjoying good health with no extensive hospitalisations. His parents are first cousins and an older brother had similar illness started at 3 years and died undiagnosed at 8 years of BaCkground age due to intractable seizure. Tay-Sachs disease (TSD) is an autosomal-recessive On examination, his head circumference, weight neurolipidosis characterised by progressive neuro- and height were 51 cm (2SD), 13.6 kg (25th degeneration.1 The underlying pathogenesis is the centiles) and 106 cm (50th centile), respectively, deficiency of lysosomal enzyme β hexosamini- without any dysmorphic features. He had excessive dase A caused by a mutation in the alpha subunit drooling and could only make a few steps unaided of the hexosaminidase A gene on chromosome with an unsteady gait. Glasgow coma score was 15q resulting in accumulation of GM2 in retinal 15/15, tone was normal in all four limbs with brisk ganglion cells and in the grey matter of neuro- deep tendon (DTR) reflexes at ankles and knees and cytes.2 TSD presents in different forms like infan- had left-sided clonus. Rest of the systemic
