Rare disease
KEYWORDS: disease, tsd, case, bmj, tay-sachs, juvenile, cherry-red, tay-sachs disease, mutation, normal, gene, gangliosidosis, indexed, hexosaminidase, cells


in the grey matter of neuro- deep tendon (DTR) reflexes at ankles and knees and cytes.2 TSD presents in different forms like infan- had left-sided clonus. Rest of the systemic examina- tile, juvenile and late-onset disease. The infantile tion was unremarkable without any visceromegaly. form is the most common and fatal variant that His ophthalmological examination was unremark- leads to progressive neurodegeneration and loss of able with normal anterior chamber and bilateral motor skills in early infancy. Exaggerated startle healthy fundi. response and megalencephaly are other prom- inent features in infantile form. Seizures, blind- ness, spasticity of limbs, swallowing and breathing inveSTigaTionS dysfunction are major factors of earlier mortality The baseline laboratory findings included complete in these children.3 Juvenile and late onset forms blood count, serum electrolytes, liver and renal are infrequent and slowly progressive. All patients function tests which were all in the normal ranges in with TSD have cherry-red spots and it is the only addition to normal electroencephalogram (EEG). A normal part of the retina, whereas the rest of brain MRI showed subcortical grey matter hetero- retina is loaded with lipid and looks pale.4 topias without any clear diagnosis. The enzyme We present here a unique case of TSD and also assay was sent and the activity of hexosaminidase share data of genotype and phenotype in our part of A turned out to be significantly low (0.09 μmol/L/ the world. This also emphasises that TSD is some- hour). Whole exome sequencing revealed homo- times misdiagnosed on initial evaluation even by an zygous mutation in HEXA gene, c109T>A p. experienced clinician due to lack of awareness. (Tyr37Asn) confirming the diagnosis of TSD. CaSe preSenTaTion ouTCome and follow-up A 5-year-old boy presented with frequent falls He was advised supportive treatment and parents © BMJ Publishing Group and spastic gait for one year that has gradually were counselled regarding the genetic nature of Limited 2019. No commercial re-use. See rights and progressed to a difficult walk over a period over this disease, prognosis and outcome. The patient is still oped swallowing dysfunction and slurred speech. ophthalmology and genetic teams. To cite: Cheema HA, Loss of coordinated movements of the body led to Waheed N, Saeed A. BMJ Case Rep 2019;12:e230140. the dependency on his parents for meals and other diSCuSSion doi:- daily routine activities. There was no history of Warren Tay, a British ophthalmologist in 1881 for 230140 head injury
