Rare disease
KEYWORDS: disease, tsd, case, bmj, tay-sachs, juvenile, cherry-red, tay-sachs disease, mutation, normal, gene, gangliosidosis, indexed, hexosaminidase, cells


the dependency on his parents for meals and other diSCuSSion doi:- daily routine activities. There was no history of Warren Tay, a British ophthalmologist in 1881 for 230140 head injury or convulsions. He has normal intellect the first time described the cherry-red spots on the Cheema HA, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2019;12:e230140. doi: 1 rare disease retina followed by Dr Bernard Sachs an American neurologist juvenile TSD with refractory convulsions.7 We had not used described the cellular changes in 1887, hence named as TSD.5 perampanel as our indexed case did not have convulsions. Hexosaminidase enzyme is a heterodimer of two subunits α and Gene delivery of β hexosaminidase A by using adeno-asso- β and it is encoded by the HEXA and HEXB genes, respectively. ciated viral vectors has a realistic potential for treating human The mutation in the HEXA gene on chromosome 15 is respon- Tay-Sachs-related diseases.13 A known mutation was found in sible for TSD, whereas mutations in the HEXB gene on chromo- our patient and we suspected that older brother had also the some 5 results in Sandhoff disease. Around 150 mutations have same mutation as both parents are carrier for the same mutation. been identified in the HEXA gene. Mutation of our indexed case Family is on our follow-up and we will do ante-natal for next has been described in an African-American boy who had juve- pregnancy by targeting HEXA gene in cultured cells from chori- nile-onset TSD6 with oculomotor signs which were not evident onic villous sampling as reported by Zhang and colleagues.14 in ours. Juvenile TSD usually presents during the childhood and the learning points slurred speech followed by higher mental function disturbances ► Tay-Sachs disease is a rare disorder in Pakistani children. without any visceromegaly in addition to cherry-red spots.3 Few ► It has a variable presentation and typically without any patients have been described with atypical symptoms like rapid visceromegaly should be considered when other common neurological regression after the onset, refractory epilepsy and causes of developmental delay are ruled out. cerebral atrophy,7 which were not evident in our child. ► Genetic analysis is the gold standard in diagnosing this rare There is intense deposition of sphingolipids in retinal ganglion disorder of gangliosidosis. cells at the macula resulting in a pale hue of retina, sparing fovea which is devoid of ganglion cells and this is visualised as char- Contributors HAC: manuscript design
