Rare disease
KEYWORDS: disease, tsd, case, bmj, tay-sachs, juvenile, cherry-red, tay-sachs disease, mutation, normal, gene, gangliosidosis, indexed, hexosaminidase, cells


gangliosidosis. cells at the macula resulting in a pale hue of retina, sparing fovea which is devoid of ganglion cells and this is visualised as char- Contributors HAC: manuscript design and writing. NW: review and reference acteristic cherry-red spot. The cherry-red spots can be seen in collection. AS: initial review and reference provision. other diseases like Sandhoff disease (GM2 type 2), gangliosidosis funding The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any GM2 type 3 and GM1 type 1, Niemann-pick disease, sialidosis funding agency in the public, commercial or not-for-profit sectors. types 1 and 2, Farber disease, mucolipidosis III, metachromatic Competing interests None declared. leukodystrophy, multiple sulfatase deficiency, dapsone toxicity, central retinal artery occlusion and Wolman’s disease.8 Our patient consent for publication Parental/guardian consent obtained. indexed case did not have this characteristic cherry-red spot provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. which is a very unique finding. It is documented in literature that when the ganglion cells get atrophied they disappear and RefeRences blindness happens due to optic atrophy which was not present HL, Ptacek L, Nestler EJ, . eds. The molecular and genetic basis of neurologic and in the indexed patient.9 His vision was normal and both of his psychiatirc disease. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2008:221–9. 2 Maegawa GH, Stockley T, Tropak M, et al. The natural history of juvenile or subacute fundi were healthy as examined by three different ophthalmolo- GM2 gangliosidosis: 21 new cases and literature review of 134 previously reported. gists on different occasions. Pediatrics 2006;118:e1550–62. The patient described here is the first genetically confirmed 3 Suvarna JC, Hajela SA. Cherry-red spot. J Postgrad Med 2008;54:54–7. 4 Nakaya-Onishi M, Suzuki A, Okamoto N, et al. Observations on time course case of TSD in the Pakistani population. The onset of symptoms changes of the cherry red spot in a patient with Tay-Sachs disease. Br J Ophthalmol and clinical progression is similar to other juvenile TSD cases 2000;84:1320–1. reported in the literature. The older sibling of the indexed case 5 Ospina LH, Lyons CJ, McCormick AQ. "Cherry-red spot" or "perifoveal white patch"? had juvenile-onset disease with a more aggressive course though Can J Ophthalmol 2005;40:609–10. his final diagnosis could not be established but we believe that he 6 Paciorkowski AR, Sathe S, Zeng BJ, et al. Juvenile-onset G(M2)-gangliosidosis in an African-American child with nystagmus. Pediatr Neurol 2008;38:284–6. had the same disease
