Kimetal.JournalofMedicalCaseReports (2017) 11:128
KEYWORDS: fig, complications, patient, associated, surgery, revealed, infection, infective, endocarditis, aneurysm, splenic, whitearrow, aortic, journalofmedicalcasereports, kimetal


the most common cause . There was no evidence of IE in this patient, but slightly in- Discussion creased mitral regurgitation (grade 1–2) (Additional IE is associated with cardiac, neurologic, renal, and mus- file 3: Video 3 and Additional file 4: Video 4) was culoskeletal complications. Predisposing factors include noted by TTE. TEE revealed a thickened, nonhomoge- the infecting pathogen, duration of illness prior to ther- neous area with an echo-dense appearance around the apy, and underlying comorbidities . IE caused by S. aortic root (Fig. 6a) and discontinuous endocardial tis- aureus is associated with complications more frequently sue (Fig. 6b) with flow communication detected by than otherpathogens. Fig.4Alargesaccularaneurysmwasdetectedintheinfrarenalabdominalaortabyaortography(a,whitearrow)andcomputedtomography (bandc,whitearrows).Theaneurysmhadnotbeenpresent2yearspreviously(d) Kimetal.JournalofMedicalCaseReports (2017) 11:128 Page4of6 Fig.5Computedtomographyshowssplenicinfarction(a,whitearrow)andabscesswithpercutaneousdrainage(b,whitearrow) MAcandevelopinthe cerebralorsystemiccirculation 15% to 20% . Survival is better for an infrarenal abdom- in the setting of IE , and cerebral hemorrhage caused inal aortic aneurysms than for noninfrarenal aneurysms by stroke or a ruptured MA can cause neurologic com- (96% versus 57%, respectively) . Therefore, we suggest plications. Direct bacterial inoculation, bacteremic seed- debridement of an infected infrarenal aortic aneurysm, ing, contiguous infection, and septic emboli are the along with extraanatomic reconstruction. The guardians of sources of MA. Intracranial MA usually involves more patient 2 refused all surgery because of the high morbidity distalportionsofthemiddlecerebralartery,asinpatient1, andmortalityrisk. and unruptured aneurysms may be managed with antibi- In contrast to relatively common splenic infarctions in otics alone. However, ruptured aneurysms should be man- patients with embolic events, splenic abscesses are very aged with a combination of antibiotics and surgery . rare and fatal complications of IE . The treatments of Patient 1 developed intracranial hemorrhage and a seizure; choice are antibiotics, splenectomy, and valve replace- we initially attempted conservative treatment with EVD ment surgery. After patient 3 was stabilized with drain- and close monitoring in the intensive care unit, and then age of a splenic abscess, we decided to perform valve weperformedaredoMVRafterstabilization.Theperi- replacement surgery and debridement of the perforated operative mortality rate for infected aortic aneurysms is intracardiac abscess pocket. The aortic and mitral valves Fig.6Transesophagealechocardiographyshowsathickenednonhomogeneousareawithecho-denseappearancearoundtheaorticroot (a,whitearrow),aswellasdiscontinuousendocardialtissue(b,whitearrow)withflowcommunicationdetectedbycolorandpulsedwave Dopplerultrasound(candd) Kimetal.JournalofMedicalCaseReports (2017) 11:128 Page5of6 Fig.7Intraoperativeviewsshowaweblikestructurewithinterruptionofendocardialtissuecontinuity(a,whitearrow)andthatthrombiwere presentinthepocket(b,whitearrow) were relatively clean, except for degenerative changes, criticalrevisionofthemanuscript;Allauthorsagreetobeaccountableforall but infected thrombiwerenotedinaphlegmon. aspectsoftheworkinensuringthatquestionsrelatedtotheaccuracyor integrityofanypartoftheworkareappropriatelyinvestigatedandresolved. Allauthorsreadandapprovedthefinalmanuscript. Conclusions IE is associated with cardiac, neurologic, renal, musculo- Competinginterests Theauthorsdeclarethattheyhavenocompetinginterests. skeletal,andsystemiccomplicationsrelatedtotheinfection (embolization, metastatic infection, and MA). Predisposing Consentforpublication factors include the infecting pathogen, duration of illness, Writteninformedconsentwasobtainedfromthepatientsforpublicationof thiscasereportandanyaccompanyingimages.Acopyofthewritten priortherapy,andunderlyingcomorbidities.Complications consentisavailableforreviewbytheEditor-in-Chiefofthisjournal. can occur before, during, and after completion of therapy.
