Bacterial Infections in Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroiditis, adrenal, acute, abscess, pituitary, bacterial, suppurative, tuberculosis, suppurative thyroiditis, infections, thyroid, infection, cases, common


ABSTRACT Bacteria are microscopic organisms that are ubiquitous in the environment and human body. Some bacteria exhibit symbiotic relationship with the human body, while other bacteria are harmful and cause various diseases. Bacteria may infect the endocrine glands either by direct invasion or local or hematogenous spread. Suppurative bacterial infections can involve the pituitary, thyroid, adrenals, and gonads. In the majority of cases, specific risk factors predispose the endocrine glands to such infections. This in turn may lead to temporary or permanent endocrine dysfunction. There may also be states of hormone excess following bacterial infections. This is particularly noted in cases of bacterial thyroiditis. Permanent endocrine dysfunction following bacterial infections will warrant life-long hormone replacement therapy. In acute stages of infection, intravenous or oral antibiotics are the cornerstone of management. The choice of antibiotic is guided by culture and sensitivity report. Sometimes, however, empirical antibiotic therapy may need to be continued as no organism may be isolated on culture. Empirical therapy should provide coverage for gram positive, gram negative, and anaerobic bacteria. If there is abscess formation in any endocrine gland, it may require aspiration and drainage. In this chapter, we have discussed the risk factors, bacteriology, clinical presentation, diagnosis, and management of common bacterial infections involving endocrine glands. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The incidence of bacterial infections of endocrine glands is low when compared to that in other organs of the body. The endocrine glands that may be affected by bacterial infections are: pituitary, thyroid, adrenals and gonads. Bacterial infection of parathyroid glands is extremely rare. Certain risk factors may predispose the glands for infection. In general, bacteria may be classified as gram positive, gram negative, and miscellaneous categories. The classification of medically important bacteria is highlighted in another chapter of the Endotext ( 1 ). Among all the bacteria, Mycobacterium tuberculosis remains the most common agent involving the endocrine glands ( 2 ). Mycobacterium tuberculosis is a weakly gram positive highly aerobic bacterium that can cause tuberculosis in any organ of the body. This organism can affect the adrenal glands and lead to primary adrenal insufficiency. In developing countries, tuberculosis remains the most common cause of primary adrenal insufficiency. Tuberculosis can also affect pituitary, thyroid, and gonads. In this chapter, we are discussing only adrenal tuberculosis, since tuberculosis of the Endocrine system has been
