Bacterial Infections in Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroiditis, adrenal, acute, abscess, pituitary, bacterial, suppurative, tuberculosis, suppurative thyroiditis, infections, thyroid, infection, cases, common


cause of primary adrenal insufficiency. Tuberculosis can also affect pituitary, thyroid, and gonads. In this chapter, we are discussing only adrenal tuberculosis, since tuberculosis of the Endocrine system has been covered in great details in another chapter ( 3 ). Apart from Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the other common bacteria that may affect the endocrine system are Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Neisseria meningitides, Escherichia coli, Chlamydia trachomatis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Treponema pallidum, and Yersinia enterocolitica among others. We have tried to present a spectrum of bacterial infections of various endocrine glands including their clinical presentation, investigations, management, long-term prognosis, and follow up. BACTERIAL INFECTIONS OF PITUITARY Infections of the pituitary gland are rare but may cause clinical problems because of the non-specific nature of the presentation ( 4 ). Among the various infectious agents, bacterial infections including Mycobacterial infections seem to be the most common. The various bacterial agents causing infection of the pituitary gland are summarized in the table 1 . The common bacterial infections of the pituitary gland are described below. Table 1. Bacterial Agents Causing Infection of Pituitary-Hypothalamus View in own window Bacterial class Organism Gram positive bacteria Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae Gram negative bacteria E coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Neisseria meningitides Spirochaete Treponema pallidum Mycobacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis Pituitary Abscess EPIDEMIOLOGY AND RISK FACTORS Pituitary abscesses are a very rare clinical entity and account for less than 1% of pituitary lesions ( 4 ). The first case of pituitary surgery involving an abscess was described in 1848. Since then, there have been around 300 such cases reported in the literature ( 4 , 5 ). Risk factors include underlying pituitary diseases such as a pituitary adenoma, Rathke’s cyst, craniopharyngioma, lymphocytic hypophysitis, immunocompromised states (uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, tuberculosis, HIV infection, after solid organ transplantation, chemotherapy, radiotherapy), history of surgical exploration in pituitary hypothalamic region, and spread of local infection from meninges and paranasal sinuses ( 5 - 7 ). Rarely, abscess may develop in a normal pituitary gland ( 6 , 8 ). BACTERIOLOGY In the majority of cases, culture is negative in pituitary abscess, with only 19.7% cases showing growth of bacteria ( 9 ). The most common organisms isolated are Streptococci and Staphylococci. Other bacterial organisms are Escherichia coli, Mycobacteria, Neisseria, and anaerobes ( 6 , 10 ). As culture is negative in most of the cases, it is important for empirical antibiotic therapy to cover gram positive,
