Bacterial Infections in Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroiditis, adrenal, acute, abscess, pituitary, bacterial, suppurative, tuberculosis, suppurative thyroiditis, infections, thyroid, infection, cases, common


coli, Mycobacteria, Neisseria, and anaerobes ( 6 , 10 ). As culture is negative in most of the cases, it is important for empirical antibiotic therapy to cover gram positive, gram negative and anaerobic bacteria. Rarely, a fungal etiology is seen. CLINICAL PRESENTATION Clinical presentation can be classified with respect to chronicity as: acute (within days to weeks), subacute (less than a month) and chronic (more than a month). Acute and subacute abscesses have fulminant presentation while chronic abscess has a more indolent course ( 5 ). In the initial stages, patients present with headache (67%), fever, meningismus, and malaise. With progression of the disease, neurological symptoms like altered sensorium, seizures, and coma can occur. Extension of infection in nearby areas can lead to visual dysfunction (45%), extra ocular movement defects, and other cranial nerve palsies ( 4 , 8 , 9 , 11 ). Both anterior and posterior pituitary hormonal hypofunction can be seen with a pituitary abscess. In the largest series of pituitary abscesses with 60 cases over 23 years, anterior pituitary hormone deficiencies were reported in 81.8% patients whereas diabetes insipidus was reported in 47.9% of the patients. In the same study, 9.3% had isolated hypogonadism, 3.7% had isolated ACTH deficiency, 1.8% had isolated hypothyroidism, and 1.8% hypothyroidism and ACTH deficiency ( 9 ). DIAGNOSIS The investigation of choice for the diagnosis of pituitary abscess is MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) with proper sellar cuts. On T1 weighted images, pituitary abscess appears iso-intense to hypo-intense while on T2 weighted images, it is iso-intense to hyper-intense. There is a characteristic rim of enhancement after gadolinium injection around the abscess site ( 9 , 11 ). Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) shows high signal intensity with a decrease in the apparent diffusion coefficient in the region of pus collection ( 9 , 11 ). MANAGEMENT Trans-nasal trans-sphenoidal surgery and drainage of the abscess is the treatment of choice. The sphenoid sinus may require exploration if extrasellar invasion is suspected. Along with surgical exploration, the patient should be started on intravenous antibiotics empirically with ceftriaxone (alternatives are cefotaxime and cefepime) along with metronidazole for anaerobic coverage. In case of suspicion for Staphylococcus aureus , vancomycin should be added ( 9 , 12 ). Further intensification or alteration of antibiotics is subjected to clinical improvement and culture and sensitivity reports. Microbiological etiology may not be identified in the majority of cases. Hence, it is
