Bacterial Infections in Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroiditis, adrenal, acute, abscess, pituitary, bacterial, suppurative, tuberculosis, suppurative thyroiditis, infections, thyroid, infection, cases, common


Further intensification or alteration of antibiotics is subjected to clinical improvement and culture and sensitivity reports. Microbiological etiology may not be identified in the majority of cases. Hence, it is imperative to give proper broad-spectrum coverage empirically. PROGNOSIS AND FOLLOW-UP With current standard of care, mortality rate is 10% and chance of recurrence is <13%. In about 25% of cases hormonal recovery occurs. After recovering from a pituitary abscess, these patients should be followed up by serial MRI at 3, 6 and 12 months ( 12 ). Monitoring for anterior and posterior pituitary hormone deficiency should be done in any patient with a pituitary abscess. Replacement with corticosteroid, thyroid, gonadal, and growth hormone therapy may be required if the patient develops deficiency of any of these hormones. Replacement with vasopressin therapy may be required if patient develops central diabetes insipidus following a pituitary abscess. Hypopituitarism Caused by Treponema Pallidum Infection Syphilis caused by Treponema pallidum (a spirochete) may involve the pituitary- hypothalamic region causing syphilitic gumma with non-caseating granulomas ( 13 , 14 ). It is more common in patients with underlying human immune deficiency virus (HIV) infection. Diagnosis can be made by demonstration of the spirochete in the samples of sellar tissues following trans sphenoidal surgery. Immunological diagnosis can be made by measuring titers of anti-Treponemal antibody in the serum. Treatment consists of intravenous followed by oral antibiotics ( 13 - 15 ). Penicillin is the drug of choice for syphilis. In patients who are allergic to penicillin, doxycycline is a good alternative. BACTERIAL INFECTIONS OF THE THYROID It is rare for bacteria to invade the normal thyroid gland because of the rich vascular supply, good lymphatic drainage, separation of thyroid gland from other structures by fascial planes, high iodine content, and production of hydrogen peroxide inside the gland ( 16 ). Both iodine and hydrogen peroxide have bactericidal properties. Acute Suppurative Thyroiditis EPIDEMIOLOGY AND RISK FACTORS Acute suppurative thyroiditis is rare and is usually due to bacterial infection of the thyroid gland. In severe cases, it can lead to abscess formation and spread to surrounding structures leading to acute obstruction of the respiratory tract. More than 90% of the patients are less than 40 years of age, with females being more commonly affected than males ( 17 , 18 ). The incidence of acute suppurative thyroiditis lies between 0.1% and 0.7% of all thyroidal illnesses ( 19 ).
