Bacterial Infections in Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroiditis, adrenal, acute, abscess, pituitary, bacterial, suppurative, tuberculosis, suppurative thyroiditis, infections, thyroid, infection, cases, common


females being more commonly affected than males ( 17 , 18 ). The incidence of acute suppurative thyroiditis lies between 0.1% and 0.7% of all thyroidal illnesses ( 19 ). In children acute suppurative thyroiditis is usually due to persistent pyriform sinus and almost always affects the left lobe and is often recurrent ( 20 - 22 ). Risk factors for acute suppurative thyroiditis are summarized in table 2 ( 23 ). Table 2. Risk Factors for Acute Suppurative Thyroiditis View in own window Common risk factors Pyriform sinus fistula – more common in children and young adults and associated with recurrent disease Immunocompromised status – AIDS, blood malignancies, uncontrolled diabetes (more common risk factor overall) Other risk factors Thyroglossal cyst Patent foramen cecum Congenital brachial fistula Spread of adjacent suppurative infection into thyroid Anterior esophageal perforation Underlying thyroid disorders like chronic autoimmune thyroiditis, goiter, and thyroid malignancy Fine need aspirations/biopsy of thyroid Dental abscess/ treatment Systemic autoimmune disorders BACTERIOLOGY Although bacterial agents account for the majority of cases, acute suppurative thyroiditis can also be caused by fungal (immunosuppressive status), parasitic, and tubercular etiology. Common bacterial organisms include Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes, Staphylococcus epidermidis, and Streptococcus pneumoniae. Rarely other causative bacteria include Klebsiella species, Hemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus viridans, Arcanobacterium haemolyticum, Eikenella corrodens , Salmonella species, and Enterobacteriaceae . In the context of immunosuppressed states like HIV-AIDS, acute suppurative thyroiditis can be caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis, atypical mycobacteria , Salmonella species , Nocardia species and Treponema pallidum ( 19 , 24 ). CLINICAL PRESENTATION Acute suppurative thyroiditis due to bacterial etiology has a very rapid onset and progression of symptoms if not addressed. The common manifestations are fever, neck pain, and dysphagia. Thyroid gland may be tender on palpation and sometimes there may be swelling with fluctuation suggestive of localized pus collection ( 25 ). Very rarely infection can spread to nearby anatomical structures resulting in a more dramatic presentation with stridor due to laryngeal involvement requiring urgent tracheostomy ( 26 ). It is important to differentiate this condition from subacute thyroiditis which also presents with systemic symptoms and neck pain ( Table 3 ) (see below). DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT Laboratory investigations are consistent with acute inflammation characterized by leukocytosis with shift to left, elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, raised C- reactive protein (CRP), and other acute inflammatory markers ( 23 ). In cases of severe disease, blood cultures may be positive.
