Bacterial Infections in Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroiditis, adrenal, acute, abscess, pituitary, bacterial, suppurative, tuberculosis, suppurative thyroiditis, infections, thyroid, infection, cases, common


shift to left, elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, raised C- reactive protein (CRP), and other acute inflammatory markers ( 23 ). In cases of severe disease, blood cultures may be positive. Ultrasonography of the thyroid may reveal an abscess. The latter requires aspiration and pus should be sent for microbiological diagnosis. Typical findings of acute suppurative thyroiditis on ultrasound are perithyroidal hypoechoic space, effacement of the plane between the thyroid and surrounding tissues, and unilateral presentation [ Fig 1 ] ( 27 ). Computed Tomography (CT) offers better spatial resolution and can be used in cases where ultrasound is not showing characteristic findings or when there is involvement of nearby soft tissue structures. Barium swallow studies may be required to diagnose a pyriform sinus, especially in children when there are recurrent episodes of suppurative thyroiditis ( 28 ). Fig 1. A. Ultrasound of the thyroid showing enlargement of the left lobe of the thyroid with heterogenous echotexture, suggestive of thyroiditis B. Ultrasound Doppler showing increased vascularity of the left lobe of the thyroid Aspiration or surgical drainage of pus with intravenous empirical broad-spectrum antibiotics (especially in sick patients) is the cornerstone of management for acute suppurative thyroiditis. If the patient is immunocompromised, antifungal therapy should be added to initial therapy. In case of extensive involvement of nearby structures, surgical debridement of involved areas may be needed. With respect to culture sensitivity, antibiotic therapy can be modified and once clinical improvement occurs, patients can be switched to oral antibiotics. If there is presence of pyriform fistula, it should be treated either surgically (removal of entire tract with thyroidectomy) or by ablation ( 21 , 29 ). Subacute Thyroiditis Subacute thyroiditis (also termed as granulomatous, giant cell, or deQuervain’s thyroiditis), is usually due to a viral illness following respiratory illness. Rarely, bacterial infections like Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Treponema pallidum, or Yersinia enterocolitica may cause subacute thyroiditis. Tuberculous thyroiditis is discussed in another chapter ( 2 ). Differentiating features of subacute thyroiditis and suppurative thyroiditis are presented in table 3 ( 19 , 30 , 31 ). Table 3. Differentiating Acute Suppurative Thyroiditis and Subacute Thyroiditis View in own window Features Acute suppurative thyroiditis Sub-acute thyroiditis Etiology Usually bacterial in origin Usually follows viral upper respiratory tract infection Presentation Rapidly evolving, patient can be very toxic with extensive involvement Presents with systemic symptoms over days to week Age Children, 20 to 40 years 20 to
