Bacterial Infections in Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroiditis, adrenal, acute, abscess, pituitary, bacterial, suppurative, tuberculosis, suppurative thyroiditis, infections, thyroid, infection, cases, common


respiratory tract infection Presentation Rapidly evolving, patient can be very toxic with extensive involvement Presents with systemic symptoms over days to week Age Children, 20 to 40 years 20 to 60 years Sex Slight female preponderance More common in females Fever 72% 54% Neck pain 70% 77% Neck tenderness Usually, unilateral (Left sided involvement due to persistent pyriform sinus) Bilateral and migratory Redness over skin Common Not present Swelling with fluctuation suggestive of abscess formation Common Not present History of sore throat Absent Present Clinical features of thyrotoxicosis Not common Common in the initial phase Laboratory Leukocytosis 82% 25 to 50% Raised ESR 90% 85% Abnormal thyroid function test 44% 60% FNAC Pus Giant cells, granulomas Ultrasound Thyroid Hypoechoic areas with abscess formation, usually unilateral Ill-defined hypoechoic areas, usually in bilateral lobes RAIU study Normal Decreased in the initial thyrotoxic phase 18 F FDG PET Increased uptake Increased uptake CT scan Useful when ultrasound is doubtful and when infection extends into peri thyroid tissue Not useful Treatment Antibiotics & drainage of pus NSAIDS, glucocorticoids in severe cases and sequential follow up of thyroid function tests. FNAC- fine needle aspiration cytology; RAIU- radioactive iodine uptake; NSAIDS-Non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs BACTERIAL INFECTIONS OF ADRENALS Tuberculosis of Adrenals Tuberculosis of the adrenal glands is the most common cause of primary adrenal insufficiency in developing countries. An autoimmune etiology remains common in developed countries. Tuberculous infection of the adrenal gland occurs from hematogenous spread from pulmonary or genitourinary sites ( 32 ). Adrenals are the most common endocrine gland involved in tuberculosis ( 2 ). The symptoms are usually non-specific with generalized weakness, easy fatiguability, loss of weight, loss of appetite, pain in abdomen, and gradually progressive darkening of complexion ( Fig 2 ). These symptoms and signs of adrenal insufficiency do not occur until more than 90% of the glands are destroyed ( 33 ). Patient can have low grade fever if the tuberculosis is active and cough and hemoptysis if associated pulmonary involvement is present. In the majority of the cases, the tuberculosis infection may not be active with only a past history of pulmonary tuberculosis ( 33 ). Untreated patients may present with adrenal crisis during times of stress. Laboratory investigations reveal low serum cortisol and high plasma adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH). Sometimes, ACTH stimulation test (short synacthen test) may be needed. Adrenal insufficiency is ruled out if serum cortisol level one
