Bacterial Infections in Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroiditis, adrenal, acute, abscess, pituitary, bacterial, suppurative, tuberculosis, suppurative thyroiditis, infections, thyroid, infection, cases, common


reveal low serum cortisol and high plasma adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH). Sometimes, ACTH stimulation test (short synacthen test) may be needed. Adrenal insufficiency is ruled out if serum cortisol level one hour post synacthen (ACTH) stimulation is more than 500-550 nmol/L (14-20 ug/dL depending on the assay). Electrolyte abnormalities noted in adrenal insufficiency are hyponatremia and hyperkalemia. Computed tomography shows bilateral enlarged adrenal masses with areas of necrosis and caseation. In long standing cases, there may be evidence of calcifications ( 33 ). Diagnosis is confirmed by adrenal biopsy showing caseating granulomas with acid fast bacilli. Other methods like culture and molecular techniques can be used for diagnosing tuberculosis in biopsy samples. Anti-tubercular treatment (ATT) along with both glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoids remain the treatment of choice. ATT consists of isoniazid - INH (5 mg/kg /d), rifampicin (10 mg/kg /d), pyrazinamide (30 mg/kg /d), and ethambutol (20 mg/kg/d) for 3 to 6 months, subsequently isoniazid and rifampicin for 6 to 12 months ( 34 ). In case of multi drug resistant tuberculosis, ATT may be altered with respect to the pattern of resistance. It may require second line medications and longer duration of therapy. Patients usually require lifelong replacement therapy with glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids. Apart from Mycobacterium tuberculosis, in the context of HIV-AIDS and other immunocompromised states, Mycobacterium avium intracellular and Mycobacterium chelonae may also cause primary adrenal insufficiency. Fig 2. A. Darkening of the skin in the dorsum aspect of hands in a patient with primary adrenal insufficiency due to adrenal tuberculosis B. Darkening of the palmar aspect including palmar creases of the same patient Adrenal Abscess An adrenal abscess is a rare clinical condition with very few cases reported in the literature. Organisms that are implicated are Mycobacterium , anaerobes, Salmonella, Nocardia, and E coli . Treatment includes drainage of abscess and antibiotic therapy ( 35 - 40 ). The choice of antibiotic is guided by culture and sensitivity report. In culture negative cases, broad spectrum antibiotics with coverage for gram positive, gram negative, and anaerobic organisms should be considered. Waterhouse-Friderichsen Syndrome Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome (WFS) or purpura fulminans is an uncommon clinical entity associated with bilateral adrenal hemorrhage in the setting of severe bacterial sepsis, which was first reported by Rupert Waterhouse and Carl Friderichsen ( 41 ). The initial version of this syndrome was classically described with Neisseria meningitidis sepsis. But later it was found that a similar clinical
