Bacterial Infections in Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroiditis, adrenal, acute, abscess, pituitary, bacterial, suppurative, tuberculosis, suppurative thyroiditis, infections, thyroid, infection, cases, common


Rupert Waterhouse and Carl Friderichsen ( 41 ). The initial version of this syndrome was classically described with Neisseria meningitidis sepsis. But later it was found that a similar clinical picture was seen with other bacterial infections such as Streptococcus pneumoniae , Hemophilus influenzae , Escherichia coli , Staphylococcus aureus , Group A beta-hemolytic Streptococcus, Capnocytophaga canimorsus , Enterobacter cloacae , Pasteurella multocida , Plesiomonas shigelloides , Neisseria gonorrhoeae , Moraxella duplex , Rickettsia rickettsia , Bacillus anthracis , Treponema pallidum, and Legionella pneumophila ( 42 - 44 ). Adrenal glands are predisposed to hemorrhage because around 50-60 small adrenal branches from 3 main adrenal arteries form a subcapsular plexus that drains into the medullary sinusoids through only a few venules ( 43 ). Therefore, an increase in adrenal venous pressure due to any cause may lead to hemorrhage. These bacteria may invade the adrenals directly or may produce endotoxins to cause adrenal necrosis and hemorrhage. There is also evidence of microthrombi within the adrenals along with disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). Pathologically, organisms are hardly demonstrated in the adrenal specimens ( 45 ). The patients are usually sick and present with profound adrenal crisis and shock. A petechial rash is usually present on the trunk, lower limbs, and mucous membrane and its severity correlates with the degree of thrombocytopenia ( 44 ). Treatment involves admission to an intensive care unit and resuscitation with intravenous fluids, intravenous glucocorticoids, and appropriate antibiotics. BACTERIAL INFECTIONS OF GONADS Bacterial Infections of Testes EPIDEMIOLOGY Infection of the epididymis can occur in both children and adults. In severe cases, the inflammation can spread further into testis and present as epididymo-orchitis. If the duration of illness is less than 6 weeks, it is termed as acute epididymo-orchitis, whereas duration more than 6 weeks is termed as chronic. In children, it usually occurs between two and thirteen years of age, whereas in adults, it is common between twenty and thirty years of age ( 46 ). BACTERIOLOGY Causative organisms in younger males less than 35 years of age are Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Chlamydia trachomatis . In older men, causative organisms include Escherichia coli , other coliforms, and Pseudomonas . Rare bacterial causes include Ureaplasma species, Mycoplasma genitalium , Mycobacterium tuberculosis , and Brucella species ( 47 - 49 ). Risk factors for epididymitis include urinary tract infections, sexually transmitted diseases, bladder outlet obstruction, prostate enlargement, and urinary tract
