Bacterial Infections in Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroiditis, adrenal, acute, abscess, pituitary, bacterial, suppurative, tuberculosis, suppurative thyroiditis, infections, thyroid, infection, cases, common


Mycobacterium tuberculosis , and Brucella species ( 47 - 49 ). Risk factors for epididymitis include urinary tract infections, sexually transmitted diseases, bladder outlet obstruction, prostate enlargement, and urinary tract surgeries or urogenital procedures. In homosexual men, an enteric bacterial etiology is common ( 46 , 50 ). CLINICAL PRESENTATION Acute epididymitis presents as localized testicular pain. On palpation, there may be swelling in the posterior part of the testis that represents an enlarged testis and inflamed epididymis. More advanced cases present with secondary testicular pain and swelling (epididymo-orchitis). There could be redness of scrotum and hydrocele (reactive fluid collection secondary to infection) ( Fig 3 ). A positive Prehn sign (manual elevation of the scrotum relieves pain) is more often seen with epididymitis than testicular torsion ( 46 ). Fig 3. Swelling of bilateral testes with reddening of the skin overlying the scrotum, suggestive of epidymo-orchitis DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT In all cases of acute epididymo-orchits, it is important to rule out acute surgical conditions like testicular torsion and Fournier’s gangrene. All patients should undergo routine urine microscopy, urine for culture and sensitivity, and a urine nucleic acid amplification test (NAAT) for N. gonorrhoeae and C. trachomatis . NAAT is helpful in diagnosing infections where urine cultures are negative ( 51 ). Management depends on the severity of illness, history suggestive of sexually transmitted diseases, and reports of NAAT (summarized in table 4 ) ( 46 , 52 ). Table 4. Management of Acute Epididymo-Orchitis View in own window Clinical scenario Likely organisms Choice of empirical antibiotic therapy * Children < 14 years Various possibilities – secondary to anatomical issues Treatment based on urine culture results and referral to urologist. Individuals at risk of sexually transmitted diseases but do not practice anal intercourse N. gonorrhoeae and C. trachomatis Single injection of ceftriaxone 500mg intramuscular and oral Doxycycline 100mg twice daily for 10 days. Alternative for doxycycline – Azithromycin Alternative for ceftriaxone- Gentamycin Individuals at risk of sexually transmitted diseases but do practice anal intercourse N. gonorrhoeae, C. trachomatis and enteric pathogens Single injection of ceftriaxone 500mg intramuscular and oral Doxycycline 100mg twice daily for 10 days plus oral levofloxacin 500 mg once daily for 10 days Individuals at lower risk of sexually transmitted diseases Recent urinary tract surgery or instrumentation Enteric pathogens Oral levofloxacin 500 mg once daily for 10 days * Further treatment should be adjusted based culture and
