Bacterial Infections in Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroiditis, adrenal, acute, abscess, pituitary, bacterial, suppurative, tuberculosis, suppurative thyroiditis, infections, thyroid, infection, cases, common


of sexually transmitted diseases Recent urinary tract surgery or instrumentation Enteric pathogens Oral levofloxacin 500 mg once daily for 10 days * Further treatment should be adjusted based culture and NAAT results; severe cases may require hospitalization and intravenous antibiotics. Bacterial Infections of Ovaries Isolated infection of ovaries is not common. It is usually part of pelvic inflammatory disease. In severe cases, it may present as tubo-ovarian abscess. Tubo-ovarian abscesses are often polymicrobial and typically contain a predominance of anaerobic bacteria. Common organisms include Escherichia coli, Bacteroides fragilis , other Bacteroides species, Pepto-streptococci, and anaerobic streptococci ( 53 ). Diagnosis is based on history, physical examination, ultrasound suggesting tubo -ovarian mass or abscess, and microbiological diagnosis. Treatment consists of admission, intravenous antibiotic therapy, and aspiration of abscess if needed. Patients who do not respond, will need surgical intervention ( 54 ). OTHER LINKS BETWEEN BACTERIA AND ENDOCRINE DISORDERS Yersinia enterocolitica has been implicated in the pathogenesis of autoimmune thyroid disease ( 55 ) . Immunoglobulins from patients with Yersinia infection inhibit binding of TSH to thyrocytes ( 56 ). This could be explained by structural similarity between Yersinia outer membrane proteins (YOP) and epitopes of the TSH receptor ( 55 , 56 ). Role of gut microbiome has recently implicated in the metabolic syndrome, obesity, and diabetes ( 57 ). Many metabolites produced by gut microbes get absorbed into the circulation. They may act on specific receptors to regulate metabolism ( 58 , 59 ). Also, some bacterial components can act as endocrine factors controlling metabolism ( 58 ). CONCLUSION Bacterial infections of the endocrine glands are rare. Pituitary abscesses usually occur in the setting of underlying pathology of the pituitary gland. It is commonly caused by Streptococci and Staphylococci. MRI of the sella demonstrates a characteristic rim of enhancement after gadolinium injection. Treatment of pituitary abscess is trans-sphenoidal surgery and intravenous antibiotics. Culture is positive in only 19.7% of cases. Acute suppurative thyroiditis is commonly caused by Streptococci and Staphylococci. Important risk factor for acute suppurative thyroiditis in children is pyriform fistula, whereas in adults, it is more common in immunocompromised states. Acute suppurative thyroiditis appear as hypoechoic area on ultrasound. It is treated by ultrasound guided drainage of the abscess and antibiotic therapy. Acute suppurative thyroiditis should be differentiated from subacute thyroiditis. Primary adrenal bacterial infections other than tuberculosis are rare. Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome (WFS) is an uncommon clinical
