Bacterial Infections in Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroiditis, adrenal, acute, abscess, pituitary, bacterial, suppurative, tuberculosis, suppurative thyroiditis, infections, thyroid, infection, cases, common


the abscess and antibiotic therapy. Acute suppurative thyroiditis should be differentiated from subacute thyroiditis. Primary adrenal bacterial infections other than tuberculosis are rare. Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome (WFS) is an uncommon clinical entity associated with bilateral adrenal hemorrhage in the setting of severe bacterial sepsis. It is classically described with Neisseria meningitides , but may be associated with other bacteria as well. Toxins produced by bacteria can cause necrosis, hemorrhage, and microthrombi within the adrenal gland leading to WFS. Infection of the epididymis can occur in both children and adults. Sometimes, the inflammation spreads further into testis and presents as epididymo-orchitis. Common bacterial agents causing epididymo-orchitis are N. gonorrhoeae and C. trachomatis. Enteric pathogens should be suspected if there is history of homosexual practice. Management depends on the severity of illness, history of suggestive sexually transmitted diseases, and reports of NAAT (urine nucleic acid amplification test). ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Dr. Lovekesh Bhatia, Department of Radiodiagnosis, Aadhar Health Institute, Hisar, India Dr. Vinita Jain, Department of Pediatrics, Aadhar Health Institute, Hisar, India REFERENCES 1. Nagendra L, Boro H, Mannar V. Bacterial Infections in Diabetes. 2022 Apr 5. In: Feingold KR, Anawalt B, Boyce A, Chrousos G, de Herder WW, Dhatariya K, et al. editors. Endotext [Internet]. South Dartmouth (MA): MDText.com, Inc.; 2000. 2. Gupta S, Ansari MAM, Gupta AK, Chaudhary P, Bansal LK. Current Approach for Diagnosis and Treatment of Adrenal Tuberculosis-Our Experience and Review of Literature. Surg J (N Y). 2022 Mar 3; 8 (1):e92–e97. [ PMC free article : PMC8894089 ] [ PubMed : 35252566 ] 3. Jacob JJ, Paul PAM. Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis. 2021 Mar 14. In: Feingold KR, Anawalt B, Boyce A, Chrousos G, de Herder WW, Dhatariya K, et al. editors. Endotext [Internet]. South Dartmouth (MA): MDText.com, Inc.; 2000. 4. Machado MJ, Ramos R, Pereira H, Barbosa MM, Antunes C, Marques O, Almeida R. Primary pituitary abscess: case report and suggested management algorithm. Br J Neurosurg. 2021 Aug 24;:1–4. [ PubMed : 34425728 ] 5. Pekic S, Miljic D, Popovic V. Infections of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Region. 2021 Aug 9. In: Feingold KR, Anawalt B, Boyce A, Chrousos G, de Herder WW, Dhatariya K, et al. editors. Endotext [Internet]. South Dartmouth (MA): MDText.com, Inc.; 2000. 6. Cabuk B, Caklılı M, Anık I, Ceylan S, Celik O, Ustün C. Primary pituitary abscess case series and a review of the literature. Neuro Endocrinol Lett. 2019 Oct; 40 (2):99–104. [ PubMed : 31785217
