Zhongetal.MilitaryMedicalResearch (2020) 7:23
KEYWORDS: baumannii, csf, tigecycline, ivt, intracranial, infection, treatment, polymyxin, injection, intracranial infection, bacteria, blood, xdr, etal, drug


hematoma clearance and bone flap decompres- tigecycline was not excluded; therefore, we adjusted the sion due to severe craniocerebral trauma caused by a antibiotictobepolymyxinB100mg×q12h+meropenem high fall four months earlier. Twenty days after the sur- 2g×q8h+vancomycin1g×q12hIVanti-infectiontreat- gery, consciousness disturbance was aggravated. Head ment and gave polymyxin B 10mg × qd, which was chan- computed tomography (CT) examination indicated in- gedtoqod×2wIVT4dayslater.Thepatientdidnothave creased hydrocephalus and CSF leakage, and ventricular fever after treatment, and the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) borehole drainage and lumbar cistern drainage were per- score increased from E1VTM1 to E1VTM5, which indi- formed several times (June 12, 2018). The CSF leukocyte catedthatthepatient’sconsciousstatehadimproved.Head count increased to 4000.0×106/L (Table 1). Staphylococ- CT and MRI showed that the effusion was better than the cusaureuswasfoundintheCSFculture,andtheinfection previous absorption (Fig.2c, d, e, and f, Fig. 3c and d,Au- was treated with meropenem + vancomycin IV combined gust 2, 2018). After reexamination, white blood cells in withvancomycinIVT.ByJuly2,2018,thewhitebloodcell CSFgraduallydecreasedto31.2×106/L,bloodglucosewas count was reduced to 1.9× 106/L, blood glucose was 3.4 3.1mmol/L, and protein was 2.24g/L. Bacteria were not mmol/L,andproteinwas0.30g/L.BrainCTandmagnetic found in 4 CSF cultures, and the color of the CSF became resonance imaging (MRI) reexamination still indicated pale yellow and transparent without flocculation (Fig. 1b, Zhongetal.MilitaryMedicalResearch (2020) 7:23 Page3of6 Fig.1Changesincerebrospinalfluid(CSF)inpatientwithintracranialA.baumanniinfectionbeforeandaftertreatment.a:CSFonJuly8;b:CSFonAugust2 August3,2018).Theantibioticwasadjustedtoceftazidime Staphylococcus aureus . In this case, Staphylococcus 2g × q8 h+polymyxin B 100mg × q12 h IV treatment. aureus was found in the CSF culture at the time of the After further stabilization, the patient was transferred to first intracranial infection, which was consistent with the thehospitalforfurtherbrainrehabilitation. pathogenspeciesmentionedinthereport.VancomycinIV and IVT are the main therapeutic drugs for the intracra- Discussion nial infectionofgram-positivecocci .However, inthe This paper discusses the anti-infection treatment strat- closed environment of hospitals, the generation of drug- egy for a case of intracranial infection with XDR A. bau- resistant bacteria is becoming increasingly serious. In mannii and describes the effects of tigecycline in its addition, neurosurgery, CSF leakage, long-term and re- treatment. peated ventricular drainage, the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics, long-term mechanical ventilation and stay in Anti-infectiontreatmentstrategyofintracranialinfection the intensive care ward and intracranial hemorrhage are withXDRA.baumannii all high-risk factors for the generation of drug-resistant According to previous reports, the main pathogens of bacteria . The average time to develop A. baumannii surgical-siteinfectionaregram-positivebacteria,especially infection is 12days (range 40days) . There have also been reports on the discovery of a previous pathogen, as well as the detection of a new pathogen, and the emer- Table2BacterialcultureofCSFinpatientwithintracranial gence of drug-resistant bacteria ranges
