Zhongetal.MilitaryMedicalResearch (2020) 7:23
KEYWORDS: baumannii, csf, tigecycline, ivt, intracranial, infection, treatment, polymyxin, injection, intracranial infection, bacteria, blood, xdr, etal, drug


There have also been reports on the discovery of a previous pathogen, as well as the detection of a new pathogen, and the emer- Table2BacterialcultureofCSFinpatientwithintracranial gence of drug-resistant bacteria ranges from 3 to 90days infection .Inthisstudy,thetimeforthedevelopmentofA.bau- Antibiotics MIC Drugsensitivity mannii in CSF culture was 28days. We know that poly- Piperacillinandtazobactam 128 R myxinhasbeeninusesincethe1950s,butitsuseratehas Ceftazidime 64 R decreased year by year due to severe nephrotoxicity and Cefoperazone/Sulbactam 64 R neurotoxicity. However, in recent years, researchers have Cefepime 32 R found that polymyxin is active against both MDR and XDRgram-negativebacteria,includingA.baumannii,and Imipenem 16 R researchershaveattemptedtousetheIVTpathwayinpa- Meropenem 16 R tients with intracranial infection . Colistin has Tobramycin 16 R CNS permeability. In recent years, colistin has been rec- Minocycline 8 I ommendedinstudiestotreatintracranialinfectioncaused Tigecycline 1 S by multidrug-resistant bacteria. The IVT and IV injection Colistin 0.5 S of colistin are currently also options for treatment, and somesuccesshasbeenachievedinthecasesstudied. Trimethoprim/Sulfamethoxazole 20 S Inthisreport,A.baumanniiwasfoundintheCSFculture MIC:Minimuminhibitoryconcentration;R:Resistant;I:Intermediate; S:Susceptible when the white blood cell counts in the CSF had become Zhongetal.MilitaryMedicalResearch (2020) 7:23 Page4of6 Fig.2BrainCTafteradmissioninpatientwithintracranialA.baumanniinfection.a.BeforethetreatmentonJuly3,largelow-densityshadows wereseenintherightfrontotemporalparietallobe;b.BeforethetreatmentonJuly3,largelow-densityshadowsappearedinthebilaterallateral ventriclesandthethirdventricledilated;c.DuringthetreatmentonJuly16,bilaterallateralventricleandthethirdventricleweredilated,and hydrocephaluswasbetterthanbefore;d.DuringthetreatmentonJuly16,afreetubeshadowwasseenthroughtheleftfrontalbonetothe anteriorhornoftheleftventricle;e.AftertreatmentonAugust2,theoriginalfreetubeshadowwasremoved;f.AftertreatmentonAugust2, bilaterallateralventricularhydrocephaluswasobserved elevated again in the patient. The drug sensitivity results meningitis, the dose of ventricular colistin should be 10 indicatedthatthepatientwassensitivetopolymyxinB.At mg per day with satisfactory results. During this that time, there was no polymyxin B or polymyxin E in process,therenalfunctionofthepatientwascloselymon- the Chinese market. After the patient’s wife purchased itored, and no nephrotoxicity or neurotoxic side effects polymyxin B from Hong Kong, we gave the patient this were observed. For polymyxin B injection, based on the drug. Therefore, polymyxin B IV and IVT schemes, evidenceprovidedandtheIVandIVTjointscheme,colis- namely, polymyxin B 100mg ×q12 h IV and 10mg×qd, tinisanidealdrugbecauseithasgoodantibacterialactiv- wereused andchangedtoqod ×2wIVT4dayslater. Ac- ity against MDR or XDR A. baumannii, but clinicians cording to the guidelines issued by the American Acad- need to be mindful of mucin-related complications, in- emy of Infectious Diseases for the treatment of bacterial cluding chemical meningitis inflammation, chemical Fig.3BrainMRIinpatientwithintracranialA.baumanniinfectionbeforeandaftertreatment.a.:OnJuly4,subarachnoidhemorrhageoccurredin therightfrontallobe;b.OnJuly4,midline,subduraleffusionandhydrocephalusoccurredintheleftfrontalpart;c.OnJuly24,subarachnoid hemorrhageintherightfrontallobe;d.OnJuly24,midlineandsubduraleffusionintheleftfrontalpartwerebetterthanbefore Zhongetal.MilitaryMedicalResearch (2020) 7:23 Page5of6 ventricle inflammation, seizures and horsetail nerve syn- results of colistin after intrathecal administration (ITH)/ drome(therehavebeenreportedincidencesof21.7%). IVT colistin methanesulfonate (CMS) application in pa- Close monitoring of renal function during treatment, tients. In one of the studies, when patients were treated more careful management of fluids and electrolytes, and with CMS 5.22mg/d, the CSF concentrations of colistin the avoidance of combination with other drugs known to werecontinuouslyabove2μg/ml,andtheC /MICratio max be nephrotoxic may reduce the incidence of associated was≥3.5. sideeffects. Conclusion Characteristicsoftigecyclineinthetreatmentof IVT tigecycline injection seems to be a safe
