HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lock, catheter, salvage, hcl, antibiotics, author, manuscript, author manuscript, model, hcl lock, etoh, infection, days, cr-bsi, catheter salvage


Author manuscript J Pediatr Surg. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 February 01. Published in final edited form as: J Pediatr Surg. 2016 February ; 51(2): 296–301. doi:. Comparative effectiveness of catheter salvage strategies for pediatric catheter-related bloodstream infections☆ Yinin Hua, Christopher A. Guidrya, Bartholomew J. Kanea, Eugene D. McGahrena, Bradley M. Rodgersa, Robert G. Sawyera,b, and Sara K. Rasmussena,* Yinin Hu: ; Christopher A. Guidry: ; Bartholomew J. Kane: ; Eugene D. McGahren: ; Bradley M. Rodgers: ; Robert G. Sawyer: ; Sara K. Rasmussen: , Charlottesville, VA, United States Medicine, Charlottesville, VA, United States Abstract Background—Intravascular catheter salvage may be attempted in clinically suitable cases in pediatric patients with catheter-related bloodstream infections. The purpose of this study was to assess the effectiveness of ethanol and hydrochloric acid (HCl) locks in achieving catheter salvage through decision-analysis modeling. Methods—A Markov decision model was created to simulate catheter salvage using three management strategies: systemic antibiotics alone, antibiotics plus HCl lock, and antibiotics plus ethanol lock. One-way and two-way sensitivity analyses were performed for all model variables. Infection control rates and recurrence rates for each strategy were derived from prospective institutional data and existing pediatric literature. Costs were derived from institutional charges. Results—With antibiotics alone, 73% of patients would require line replacement within 100 days, compared to only 31% and 19% of patients treated with HCl and ethanol lock, respectively. Incremental cost per additional catheter salvaged is $89 for HCl lock and $456 for ethanol lock. Superior efficacy of adjunct lock therapy is insensitive to changes in the anticipated duration of central access requirement and to clinically relevant variations in all model input variables. Conclusion—HCl or ethanol locks are cost-effective adjuncts to systemic antibiotics for attempted catheter salvage in the setting of catheter-related bloodstream infections. Keywords Catheter-related bloodstream infection; Decision analysis; Cost-effectiveness; Ethanol lock; Hydrochloric acid lock ☆Funding source: Funding support was provided by NIH T32 CA163177 (to Y.H.). VA 22908-0679, United States. Tel.: +1 434 982 2796; fax: +1 434 243 0036. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Central venous catheter-related bloodstream infections (CR-BSI) are a significant source of morbidity within the critically and chronically ill pediatric populations . Catheter removal and replacement has traditionally been considered vital for CR-BSI treatment, however, the Infectious Disease Society of America has acknowledged that certain patient subsets – including children – may be considered for catheter salvage therapy . Because the incidence
