HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lock, catheter, salvage, hcl, antibiotics, author, manuscript, author manuscript, model, hcl lock, etoh, infection, days, cr-bsi, catheter salvage


CR-BSI treatment, however, the Infectious Disease Society of America has acknowledged that certain patient subsets – including children – may be considered for catheter salvage therapy . Because the incidence of thrombosis and stenosis following central venous catheterization may be up to 35%, effective protocols aimed at avoiding catheter replacement are critical. A major contributor to the tenacity of CR-BSI’s is the formation of microbial biofilms on the catheter surface. A biofilm is a three-dimensional extracellular matrix that can encase microbial communities. This protective structure renders the resident pathogens highly resistant to antimicrobial treatment . High-concentration antibiotic lock therapy has been recognized for its role in catheter salvage. However, because drug penetrance through microbial biofilms is poor, antibiotic locks require prolonged dwell time (24–48 h) and drug concentrations 10×–1000× higher than those used for systemic therapy . Moreover, certain antibiotics may actually induce biofilm formation , and concerns for resistance preclude the use of antibiotic locks for recurrent infections . Given these limitations, there is pressing incentive to examine and implement alternative strategies for central venous catheter salvage. Recently, ethanol (EtOH) and hydrochloric acid (HCl) locks have emerged as novel agents that nonspecifically denature biofilm protein, thereby facilitating infection control as not promote microbial resistance, and involve comparatively shorter dwell times, there is a paucity of data pertaining to their efficacy and cost-effectiveness. Thus far, retrospective and small prospective studies have shown promising rates of infectious control and low recurrence [11–16]. approach can integrate data from multiple sources to propose recommendations for optimal, cost-effective care. A prime example exists in the comparison of video-assisted thoracoscopy versus tube thoracostomy and fibrinolytic therapy for pediatric empyema. A landmark cost-effectiveness analysis demonstrated that thoracostomy and fibrinolysis produced comparable utility and superior cost-efficacy compared to thoracoscopic surgery . This finding was subsequently incorporated within committee recommendations by the American Pediatric Surgical Association , and influences practice to this day. Ultimately, the decision to pursue catheter salvage in the setting of CR-BSI involves socioeconomic factors). Because an evidence-based decision model cannot replicate this level of complexity, this study was designed not to determine whether salvage should be attempted, but rather, which salvage strategy is best, assuming that salvage is appropriate. antibiotics alone in the setting of catheter salvage for pediatric CR-BSI. The a priori hypotheses were that both HCl and EtOH locks would be more efficacious than systemic J Pediatr Surg. Author manuscript; available in
