HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lock, catheter, salvage, hcl, antibiotics, author, manuscript, author manuscript, model, hcl lock, etoh, infection, days, cr-bsi, catheter salvage


of catheter salvage for pediatric CR-BSI. The a priori hypotheses were that both HCl and EtOH locks would be more efficacious than systemic J Pediatr Surg. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 February 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript antibiotics alone, and that HCl lock would be more cost-effective than EtOH lock because of a shorter standard dwell time. 1. Materials and methods 1.1. Model design A Markov decision model was created to simulate a pediatric patient found to have bacterial CR-BSI who has an anticipated future central venous access requirement of 100 days . These decision models are used in comparative effectiveness studies to calculate the expected costs and utilities of two or more interventions. Markov models are mathematical simulations in which patients in compared intervention groups transition to alternative health states depending on the occurrence of potential outcomes. Following initial therapy, patients are followed for a prespecified number of Markov cycles, with each cycle representing a the end of each cycle. The likelihood of transitioning between different health states is captured by transition rate variables. Each health state is associated with a cost that represents the state’s financial burden over one cycle. Thus, a Markov model simulates treatment and posttreatment progression in a time-dependent manner, and assigns efficacy and cost based on the number of cycles that each patient spends within each health state. For this study, a hypothetical patient with a diagnosis of CR-BSI undergoes attempted catheter salvage using one of three treatment strategies: A) broad-spectrum systemic antibiotics, B) antibiotics plus adjuvant 70% EtOH lock, and C) antibiotics plus 2 M HCl lock. A 10-day course of systemic antibiotics (vancomycin and piperacillin–tazobactam) was modeled. Ethanol locks are administered with 12- to 24-h dwell time for three consecutive days, during which peripheral venous access is required . Hydrochloric acid lock administration is performed according to protocols described by Barbaric et al. , requiring a total of 1.5 h per treatment. Following attempted salvage, infection control is defined by presence of a negative blood culture within 48 h of initial CR-BSI diagnosis. Those patients who achieve infection control are monitored for recurrence. Each Markov cycle in the monitoring period represents 10 days, thus, the model proceeds for 10 cycles. Should CR-BSI recur, the patient may undergo repeat salvage attempts. Patients who do not achieve infection control for index or recurrent CR-BSI undergo catheter replacement (Fig. 1).
