HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lock, catheter, salvage, hcl, antibiotics, author, manuscript, author manuscript, model, hcl lock, etoh, infection, days, cr-bsi, catheter salvage


for 10 cycles. Should CR-BSI recur, the patient may undergo repeat salvage attempts. Patients who do not achieve infection control for index or recurrent CR-BSI undergo catheter replacement (Fig. 1). The model’s primary outcome is the likelihood of retaining the index catheter for 100 days (successful salvage). The secondary outcome is cost per catheter salvaged. 1.2. Transition rates For each treatment arm, there are three relevant transition rates. Infection control rate is the likelihood of having a negative blood culture within 48 h of initial CR-BSI diagnosis. Because rate of infectious recurrence following salvage changes over time, two unique variables were used to represent time-dependent recurrence rates over two time periods after infection control: days 1–30 and days 31–100. Time-dependent rate of recurrence for each Markov cycle was extrapolated from these variables. J Pediatr Surg. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 February 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript To obtain variable baseline estimates, a literature review was performed for pediatric articles published within the past 15 years pertaining to salvage outcomes for CR-BSI. Infection control rates were estimated as weighted averages from these published data (Table 1). Similarly, 30-day recurrence rates were extrapolated from existing literature for EtOH lock and HCl lock regimens. Over the past 15 years, no adequately sized study has documented time-dependent, recurrence-free catheter survival for 100 days following salvage using any treatment strategy. To address this limitation, an assumption was first made that the beneficial effect of adjuvant locks does not extend beyond 30 days posttreatment. Thus, we anticipate that the rate of recurrent infection following initial salvage is equivalent across the three treatment modalities for days 31–100. We then queried a prospectively collected institutional database of all pediatric CR-BSI for cases of attempted catheter salvage. Neither HCl lock nor EtOH lock was used within this series. Initial infection control rate using systemic antibiotics alone was 57% (59/104), comparable to outcomes from existing literature [20–22]. Using this sample, recurrent CR-BSI was identified through chart review, and time-dependent rate of recurrence was derived through Kaplan–Meier analysis (Fig. 2). Through these methods, we obtained an estimate for infection recurrence rate over days 31– 100 following an initially successful salvage, and applied this estimate to all three model treatment arms. 1.3. Costs Cost variables for broad-spectrum antibiotics, EtOH and HCl lock therapies, temporary peripheral vascular access, and central venous catheter replacement were derived from institutional charges
