HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lock, catheter, salvage, hcl, antibiotics, author, manuscript, author manuscript, model, hcl lock, etoh, infection, days, cr-bsi, catheter salvage


three model treatment arms. 1.3. Costs Cost variables for broad-spectrum antibiotics, EtOH and HCl lock therapies, temporary peripheral vascular access, and central venous catheter replacement were derived from institutional charges (Table 1). Because total charges for tunneled permanent central venous catheters vary by operative complexity and anesthesia costs, the charge for a peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) was used as a conservative estimate. This study was approved by the University of Virginia Institutional Review Board (protocol #16171). 1.4. Statistical analysis The model’s primary outcome was assessed for the baseline scenario and for scenarios involving shorter and longer periods of anticipated access. Cost-effectiveness was measured as cost per catheter salvaged, equivalent to the total cost of treating one infected catheter divided by the likelihood of successful salvage at 100 days. The incremental cost- effectiveness ratio (ICER) for each lock therapy was defined as the cost per additional catheter salvaged, compared to a salvage regimen involving systemic antibiotics alone. One- way and two-way sensitivity analyses were performed for all model variables across wide ranges of potential values. Because the alternative to salvage is immediate replacement, the willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold was parsimoniously set at the cost of PICC line insertion ($2200). 2. Results Likelihood of salvage for 100 days was 27%, 69%, and 81% for antibiotics alone, antibiotics plus HCl lock, and antibiotics plus EtOH lock, respectively. The cost per catheter salvaged J Pediatr Surg. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 February 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript for each protocol is listed in Table 2. Notably, for 100 days of anticipated access, the cost of salvaging a catheter using an antibiotics-only strategy is $2456, higher than the WTP threshold ($2200). Compared to salvage using antibiotics alone, the ICERs for adjuvant HCl lock and EtOH lock are $87 and $453 per additional catheter salvaged, respectively, both less than the WTP threshold. Comparing the two adjuvants, EtOH lock is more effective but also more costly, with an ICER of $1744 per additional catheter salvaged over HCl lock. The baseline model was repeated for scenarios requiring between 10 days and 300 days of anticipated central access (Table 2). Results suggest that, for patients requiring more than 80 days of central access, an antibiotics-only salvage regimen is more costly than immediate catheter replacement. By comparison, adding either EtOH lock or HCl lock makes salvage cost-effective for patients with anticipated access requirements of up
