HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lock, catheter, salvage, hcl, antibiotics, author, manuscript, author manuscript, model, hcl lock, etoh, infection, days, cr-bsi, catheter salvage


antibiotics-only salvage regimen is more costly than immediate catheter replacement. By comparison, adding either EtOH lock or HCl lock makes salvage cost-effective for patients with anticipated access requirements of up to 200 days. For patients requiring 300 days of access or more, immediate replacement has lower expected direct costs than any of the salvage strategies. Threshold values from one-way sensitivity analyses comparing HCl lock or EtOH lock versus antibiotics-only salvage are shown in Table 2. For example, antibiotics alone is more cost-effective than antibiotics plus HCl lock if the infection control rate for HCl lock is lower than 36% (80% reported). The cost-effectiveness of either lock therapy compared to antibiotics alone was robust to all model variables. Because the baseline ICER of EtOH lock relative to HCl lock closely approximates WTP, sensitivity analyses between these protocols were not performed out of recognition that relative cost-effectiveness would be sensitive to all model variables. Two-way sensitivity analyses comparing both lock adjuvants to antibiotics alone are shown in Fig. 3. 3. Discussion Results of this decision model support the addition of HCl lock or EtOH lock to systemic antibiotics for attempted catheter salvage. Both adjuvants are cost-effective compared to antibiotics alone. This advantage is present for anticipated duration of central access up to 200 days. For patients with central access needs of 300 days or more, immediate catheter replacement is more cost-effective than attempted salvage with or without HCl or EtOH treatments. Because the ICER of EtOH lock compared to HCl lock approximates the cost of a new catheter, the two lock therapies may be considered equally cost-effective. However, this last finding is based on a parsimonious WTP threshold derived from the charge of a PICC line. For cases with a higher WTP – i.e., if an operative tunneled line is indicated – EtOH lock may be more cost-effective than HCl lock because of its reportedly lower recurrence rate [14–16]. Sensitivity analyses indicate that the model’s main finding – that lock therapies are cost- effective compared to antibiotics alone – is robust to potential changes in each variables’ baseline estimates. For all variables, one-way sensitivity thresholds fell outside the range of values reported in recent literature, and outside of clinically realistic values, thereby reinforcing the validity of the model’s predictions. For example, antibiotics alone is more cost-effective than antibiotics plus adjuvant HCl lock if the infection control rate of adjuvant HCl lock is
