HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lock, catheter, salvage, hcl, antibiotics, author, manuscript, author manuscript, model, hcl lock, etoh, infection, days, cr-bsi, catheter salvage


reinforcing the validity of the model’s predictions. For example, antibiotics alone is more cost-effective than antibiotics plus adjuvant HCl lock if the infection control rate of adjuvant HCl lock is lower than 36% (Table 1). However, the infection control rate of antibiotics J Pediatr Surg. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 February 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript alone is 55%. Based on its mechanism of action, it is exceedingly unlikely that adding HCl lock would paradoxically reduce infection control. Scrutiny of each of the other transition variables – i.e., recurrence free line survival at 30 and 100 days for each strategy – revealed similarly implausible sensitivity thresholds. The effectiveness of lock therapies within this model is driven by an increase in rate of infection control. Even among patients with CR-BSI refractory to systemic antibiotics, HCl lock may attain infection control in more than 67% of cases . Furthermore, while antibiotic-mediated salvage is ineffective against fungal CR-BSI, both HCl and EtOH locks have efficacy against catheter-associated fungemia . Because fungal infections were not included in the present model, the true benefit of adjuvant lock therapy may be underestimated. Finally, avoiding catheter replacement through salvage decreases the risk of venous stenosis, thrombosis, operative anesthesia and mechanical complications of replacement. These downstream benefits of catheter salvage are not included in this model, and likely provide further incentive to adopt biofilm-targeting adjuvants. Therefore, while intangible benefits of catheter salvage increase the likelihood of lock therapy’s cost- effectiveness. This study has several limitations. First, HCl and EtOH locks were not compared to high- dose antibiotic lock, which is associated with a 40%–93% infection control rate [8,23–25]. Because its effectiveness is pathogen-specific, modeling high-dose antibiotic lock requires assumptions regarding pathogen distribution which vary greatly by institution. Further, because of concerns for mounting resistance, antibiotic lock may not be justified for utility was not incorporated in the model. Factors such as clinical stability may dictate that catheter salvage is not an option. Therefore, this model’s role was to compare salvage strategies; determining whether a patient is suitable for salvage is a different and complex inquiry deserving further study. Third, the rate of recurrent infection following catheter replacement was not accounted for in this model, because this value is thus far poorly understood. An evidence-based estimate – but likely an underestimate – may be the infection rate of a new catheter, which is reportedly
