NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: aripiprazole, liver, injury, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, liver injury, weight, patients, schizophrenia, alt, study, antipsychotic, olanzapine, mention


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Aripiprazole. [Updated 2023 Jun 5]. Bookshelf URL: Aripiprazole Updated: June 5, 2023. OVERVIEW Introduction Aripiprazole is an atypical antipsychotic used in the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar illness. Aripiprazole therapy has not been associated consistently with serum aminotransferase elevations and has yet to be linked to cases of clinically apparent acute liver injury. Background Aripiprazole (ar" i pip' ra zole) is a partial agonist for dopamine type 2 (D2) and serotonin (5-HT1A) receptors and has antagonist activity against serotonin 5HT2A receptors. Aripiprazole is indicated for the therapy of schizophrenia and as either monotherapy or adjunctive therapy for manic and mixed episodes in bipolar disorder, irritability associated with autistic disorder, and as adjunctive treatment with antidepressants for major depressive disorder. Aripiprazole is also indicated for treatment of Tourette disorder. It was approved for use in the United States in 2002 and is widely used with more than 8 million prescriptions filled yearly. Aripiprazole is available as tablets of 2, 5, 10, 15, 20 and 30 mg generically and under the brand name Abilify. It is also available as an oral solution (1 mg/mL), as orally disintegrating tablets (10 and 15 mg) and as a solution for intramuscular injection (7.5 mg/mL). The typical initial oral dose for adults is 10 to 15 mg daily, increasing to a maximum of 30 mg daily. In addition, an extended release formulation of aripiprazole has been developed and approved for use in schizophrenia. This formulation is given in a dose of 400 mg intramuscularly once monthly and is available under the brand name Abilify Maintena. Aripiprazole is generally well tolerated, but side effects can include restlessness, sedation, tremor, extrapyramidal symptoms, dizziness, blurred vision, headache, fatigue and nausea. Weight gain is uncommon. Rare, but potentially severe adverse events include suicidal ideation and behaviors, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, cerebrovascular adverse events in the elderly with dementia, hypersensitivity reactions, and body weight gain with complications of dyslipidemia and diabetes. Hepatotoxicity Liver test abnormalities have not been reported to occur in patients on long term therapy with aripiprazole, but most studies have not provided information on serum enzyme results. Despite its widescale use, aripiprazole has been implicated in only rare and isolated cases of clinically apparent liver injury in the literature. All reported cases have been hepatocellular arising after 1 to 3 months of therapy
