NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: aripiprazole, liver, injury, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, liver injury, weight, patients, schizophrenia, alt, study, antipsychotic, olanzapine, mention


been implicated in only rare and isolated cases of clinically apparent liver injury in the literature. All reported cases have been hepatocellular arising after 1 to 3 months of therapy and with accelerated onset in one instance upon re-exposure. Immunoallergic and autoimmune features were not present. Most cases have been anicteric, and none were fatal or resulted in chronic injury. Aripiprazole has not been reported among agents implicated in large case series of drug induced liver injury. The product label for aripiprazole mentions that hepatitis and 2 LiverTox jaundice have been reported, but no specific details were provided. Thus, clinically apparent liver injury from aripiprazole must be very rare. Likelihood score: D (possible rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury Aripiprazole is extensively metabolized by the liver via the P450 system, largely by CYP 3A4 and 2D6 and is susceptible to drug-drug interactions with agents that induce or inhibit these microsomal enzymes. Weight gain is less prominent with aripiprazole than other atypical antipsychotic medications and the influence of weight gain during aripiprazole therapy on serum ALT levels has not been shown. Drug Class: Antipsychotic Agents, Atypicals PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Aripiprazole – Abilify® DRUG CLASS Antipsychotic Agents COMPLETE LABELING Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE DRUG CAS REGISTRY NUMBER MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Aripiprazole 129722-12-9 C23-H27-Cl2-N3-O2 ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 05 June 2023 Aripiprazole 3 Meyer JM. Pharmacotherapy of psychosis and mania. In, Brunton LL, Hilal-Dandan R, Knollman BC, eds. Goodman & Gilman's the pharmacological basis of therapeutics. 13th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2018, pp. 279-302. (Textbook of pharmacology and therapeutics). Goodnick PJ, Jerry JM. Aripiprazole: profile on efficacy and safety. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2002;3:1773–81. PubMed PMID: 12472374. (Review of efficacy and safety of aripiprazole; no mention of hepatotoxicity or ALT elevations). Aripiprazole (Abilify) for schizophrenia. Med Lett Drugs Ther. 2003;45:15–6. PubMed PMID: 12592215. (Brief review of efficacy and safety of aripiprazole shortly after its approval in the US; most common side effects are anxiety, headache, nausea, constipation, insomnia, dizziness and somnolence; has little effect on weight; no mention of hepatotoxicity or effect on ALT levels). Choice of an antipsychotic. Med Lett Drugs Ther. 2003;45:102–4. PubMed PMID: 14679353. (Unlike other second generation antipsychotics, aripiprazole is a partial dopamine agonist; it has little or no effec t on weight and does not increase the QT interval; no mention of hepatic effects).
