Kidney Stone Emergencies
KEYWORDS: stone, stones, renal, pain, obstruction, colic, acute, renal colic, kidney, management, diagnosis, patients, infection, evaluation, imaging


For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . CLINICAL RECOGNITION The acute passage of a kidney stone is the 9 th most common cause of emergency room visits. Approximately 7-8% of women and 11-16% of men will have stone disease by age 70. Stone disease has an estimated heritability of ~45% indicating that genetic factors strongly influence the occurrence. The acute syndrome complex called renal colic implies obstruction of the collecting system or ureter, and the most common cause of obstruction is a kidney stone. Kidney stone colic is relatively constant in contrast to intestinal or biliary colic, which waxes and wanes or comes in waves. The onset of pain heralds the entrance of a stone into the collecting system and the ensuing obstruction. The intensity and location of the pain may vary with stone size, stone location, degree of luminal obstruction, and the suddenness of the obstruction but flank pain is very common. Referred genital pain is common with distal ureteral stones. Symptoms typically begin at night or the early morning hours with abrupt onset and awakening the patient from sleep. During the day, the onset of symptoms may follow heavy exercise and may be more gradual with an occasional prodrome of unilateral discomfort in the flank, testis or vulva on the side of the obstruction. The pain then becomes continuous, steady; and progressively more severe as it approaches a peak. For some, there are acute paroxysms of increasingly intense pain. Anorexia, nausea, and vomiting commonly appear with the pain, and gross hematuria may be present. Overall, one-third of patients have a relatively rapid onset and reach peak pain in 30 minutes or less. Untreated, the pain may last for 4 to 12 hours, but most patients have presented to the emergency room by the time the pain becomes continuous, usually by two hours into the colic. Upon presentation, the pain is described as a 9 or 10 on of a scale of 1 to 10. Chills and fever may be present as well and should raise concern for infection as these symptoms are usually not present in uncomplicated urolithiasis. Similarly, hypotension also raises the likelihood of infection as the pain associated with renal colic typically induces hypertension and tachycardia. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Stone-induced renal colic refers to an intraluminal cause, but non-stone related external compression of the ureter can induce the
