Kidney Stone Emergencies
KEYWORDS: stone, stones, renal, pain, obstruction, colic, acute, renal colic, kidney, management, diagnosis, patients, infection, evaluation, imaging


pain associated with renal colic typically induces hypertension and tachycardia. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Stone-induced renal colic refers to an intraluminal cause, but non-stone related external compression of the ureter can induce the same symptom complex and be confused with the intraluminal presence of a stone. Renal colic can arise from three mechanisms: urinary obstruction, the most common cause, is due to a direct increase in intraluminal pressure and stretch of the nerve endings in the mucosa; local ureteral mucosal or collecting system irritation from direct contact of the stone; and interstitial edema and stretch of the renal capsule, particularly when there is a concomitant pyelonephritis. Stones are more likely to hang up and obstruct at naturally narrow regions of the upper urinary tract including the ureteropelvic junction, crossing of the iliac artery and vein, pelvic brim, and the ureterovesical junction. DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL Diagnosis The diagnosis is strongly suspected by the symptom complex. The examination reveals costovertebral angle tenderness with dysesthesia of the skin overlying the area along the flank, lower abdomen, groin, or genitalia. Gross or microscopic hematuria is present in 60% to 90% of patients with renal colic but is not required for the diagnosis. Children with renal stones may present with more vague abdominal symptoms compared to the symptom complex in adults. Therefore, abdominal pain in children and adolescents should call for a urologic evaluation if no diagnosis has been reached. Differential Diagnosis Acute renal colic may be caused by non-kidney stone events listed in Table 1 . Table 1. Causes of Acute Renal Colic View in own window Intrinsic to the Collecting System Kidney stones Gross hematuria with clot formation Tumor emboli Renal papillary necrosis Extrinsic to the Collecting System Calyceal obstruction Calyceal diverticula Congenital ureteropelvic obstruction Retroperitoneal fibrosis Endometriosis Dilation of the ovarian veins (pregnancy) Mass lesions of the uterus Acute onset of continuous, aching or dull pain that is non-colicky or flank pain without radiation to or toward the groin suggests a non-stone etiology. Common causes of acute non-colicky pain are listed in Table 2 . Table 2. Differential Diagnosis of Acute Non-Colicky Renal Pain View in own window Renal vein thrombosis Pyelonephritis Renal cortical abscess Poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis Rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis Polycystic kidney disease Medullary sponge kidney DIAGNOSTIC TESTING Imaging The definitive diagnosis of acute renal colic relies upon radiographic imaging of the kidney and urinary tract to demonstrate the location, number, and size of the
