Kidney Stone Emergencies
KEYWORDS: stone, stones, renal, pain, obstruction, colic, acute, renal colic, kidney, management, diagnosis, patients, infection, evaluation, imaging


kidney DIAGNOSTIC TESTING Imaging The definitive diagnosis of acute renal colic relies upon radiographic imaging of the kidney and urinary tract to demonstrate the location, number, and size of the stones as well as the degree of obstruction. Non-contrast CT (NCCT) has become the imaging study of choice when evaluating patients with acute flank pain and suspected ureterolithiasis. It has both a high sensitivity and specificity for demonstrating the presence of stones and the ability to detect other abnormalities that may be accounting for the symptoms. In addition, it has the advantage of providing information regarding stone number, location, size, and in some instances stone composition. It can also reveal signs of obstruction. The majority of patients evaluated by NCCT require no further imaging to determine the need for urological intervention. Many now advocate the use of low dose NCCT for the diagnosis of renal stones to reduce radiation exposure, particularly if the BMI is less than 30kg/m 2 . Ultrasound is also a sensitive method for detecting ureteral stones in patients with renal colic and can be used as the initial imaging method in investigating these patients. However, the quality of ultrasound information is operator dependent, and ultrasound has decreased diagnostic sensitivity. Kidney stones are common during pregnancy. Because fetal radiation exposure should be avoided, ultrasound is the primary radiologic procedure followed by MRI if necessary in pregnant women. NCCT should be used only in rare instances in pregnancy. In children ultrasound is the initial imaging procedure followed by low dose NCCT if needed. A radiographic study done while the patient is in the emergency room will establish a definitive diagnosis, especially if it can exclude other causes of acute abdominal pain; will avoid a prolongation of the painful episode; avoid delay in treatment; and reduce the risk of loss of renal function when complete obstruction is present. Laboratory Studies The laboratory studies that should be obtained are shown in Table 3 . Table 3. Laboratory Studies View in own window Complete Blood Count (CBC) Increased neutrophils may be due to a stress response or infection Electrolytes Creatinine Usually not markedly increased. A marked increase suggests solitary kidney, baseline kidney disease, or pre-renal injury due to dehydration Calcium Hypercalcemia suggests the mechanism of stone formation and requires further evaluation Uric acid Elevated uric acid levels suggest the mechanism for stone formation and requires further evaluation Pregnancy testing in females
