Kidney Stone Emergencies
KEYWORDS: stone, stones, renal, pain, obstruction, colic, acute, renal colic, kidney, management, diagnosis, patients, infection, evaluation, imaging


suggests the mechanism of stone formation and requires further evaluation Uric acid Elevated uric acid levels suggest the mechanism for stone formation and requires further evaluation Pregnancy testing in females of reproductive age U/A Hematuria very common. WBCs if > 5/high powered field suggest infection Urine culture and sensitivity if U/A abnormal or other signs of infection Patients should be instructed to filter their urine in the hopes of retrieving a stone for analysis. Knowing the stone composition will help guide future preventive therapy. TREATMENT The goals of management during the acute phase of stone obstruction and renal colic includes: pain control and diagnostic procedures to determine the presence of a kidney stone in the collecting system and the extent of obstruction. Pain management should be started soon after the patient arrives in the emergency room and should be continued until the episode has resolved. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) (for example diclofenac, indomethacin or ibuprofen) are effective first line agents for acute pain treatment. If the pain persists or NSAIDS are contraindicated, narcotics, such as morphine sulfate 0.1 mg per kg body weight IM every four hours or meperidine (Demerol) 1.0 mg per kg body weight IM every three to four hours, may be used. Intravenous lidocaine (1.5mg/kg) is another option that has been shown to be effective in reducing renal colic. Anti-emetic agents may be given along with the narcotics as nausea and emesis may occur with stone passage and commonly complicate narcotic use. If medical treatment is not sufficient consultation with urology and consideration of drainage or stone removal is indicated. Alpha blockers, such as tamsulosin, may be used to facilitate the clearance of kidney stones. In a Cochrane review of 67 studies with 10,509 participants it was concluded that “alpha-blockers likely increase stone clearance but probably also slightly increase the risk of major adverse events (hypotension, syncope, palpitations, tachycardia). Subgroup analyses suggest that alpha-blockers may be less effective for smaller (5 mm or smaller) than for larger stones (greater than 5 mm)”. Smaller stones are more likely to spontaneously pass and therefore the advantages of alpha blockers are minimized but they may induce more rapid clearance. Additionally, alpha blockers also reduce renal colic. The size of the stone is a major determinant of the need for surgical management vs. conservative management. Stones vary from less than 2 mm to greater than 2 cm in diameter. The majority
