Kidney Stone Emergencies
KEYWORDS: stone, stones, renal, pain, obstruction, colic, acute, renal colic, kidney, management, diagnosis, patients, infection, evaluation, imaging


stone is a major determinant of the need for surgical management vs. conservative management. Stones vary from less than 2 mm to greater than 2 cm in diameter. The majority of stones are less than 4 mm in width, small enough to pass spontaneously in most patients. A stone’s size is an important factor together with symptom severity, degree of obstruction, presence or absence of infection, and level of renal function in deciding whether to manage the stone initially by observation, awaiting spontaneous passage, or to intervene with a surgical procedure. Stones with a width of 5 mm or less have a 50% chance of spontaneous passage if in the proximal ureter and a better chance if in the distal ureter. Overall, for stones ≤5 mm, approximately 68% will pass spontaneously. For stones >5 mm and ≤10 mm, an estimated 47% will pass spontaneously. One study found that stones > 9mm had only a 25% chance of spontaneous passage. Distal stones are more likely to clear than proximal stones (proximal ureter 48%, mid-ureter 60%, distal ureter 75% passage rate). Thus, in many patients with renal colic symptomatic treatment and close follow-up with the anticipation of stone passage is reasonable. The presence of infection, obstruction, refractory or difficult to treat pain, or deterioration of renal function indicates the need to urological consultation and the consideration of surgical intervention. Urologic consultation should be obtained for possible surgical intervention for a number of reasons including stones with a low likelihood of spontaneous passage (large stones, proximal location), infection, obstruction, renal insufficiency or worsening renal function, and comorbidities that increase the risk of adverse outcomes (for example pregnancy). Depending upon the circumstances a number of procedures are available including ureteroscopic stone lithotripsy and extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy for stone removal and percutaneous nephrostomy tube and JJ-stent for urinary drainage. The presence of urinary tract infection increases the risk for development of pyelonephritis and/or pyonephrosis. Urgent intervention is therefore indicated, regardless of stone size. Near-total or total ureteral obstruction predicts deterioration of renal function that may start within two weeks of presenting with stone disease and therefore indicates the need intervention. FOLLOW-UP Follow-up evaluation should be within one to two weeks of the acute event depending on the extent of intervention and whether there is risk for new obstruction from residual stones. Metabolic evaluation using blood and urine tests may be performed after six weeks
