Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


Internal Clinical Guidelines Team Final Version Coeliac Disease Recognition, assessment and management Clinical Guideline NG20 Methods, evidence and recommendations September 2015 Final Version Commissioned by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence CCooeelliiaacc ddiisseeaassee Coeliac disease Coeliac disease Coeliac disease Coeliac disease Coeliac disease Coeliac disease Overview 1 Overview 1.1 Introduction Coeliac disease is an autoimmune condition associated with chronic inflammation of the small intestine, which can lead to malabsorption of nutrients. Dietary proteins, known as glutens, which are present in wheat, barley and rye activate an abnormal mucosal immune response. Clinical and histological improvements usually follow when gluten is excluded from the diet. gastrointestinal (such as indigestion, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, bloating, distension or constipation) and non-gastrointestinal (such as fatigue, dermatitis herpetiformis, anaemia, osteoporosis, reproductive problems, short stature, neuropathy, ataxia or delayed puberty). Although some people present with typical symptoms, others have few or no symptoms. People with autoimmune conditions such as type 1 diabetes and autoimmune thyroid disease, or people with a first-degree family history of coeliac disease, have an increased likelihood of coeliac disease. 1.2 Health and resource burden Coeliac disease is a common condition. Population screening studies suggest that in the UK 1 in 100 people are affected. The complications of untreated coeliac disease can be serious, such as osteoporosis or malignancy. The treatment of coeliac disease is a lifelong gluten-free diet. Specific education and information, such as advice and education on alternative foods in the diet to maintain a healthy and varied intake, may increase the likelihood of adherence and a positive prognosis. These could be provided by a dietitian with experience in coeliac disease; access to specialist dietetic support is currently poor within the UK. 1.3 Reasons for the guideline Currently, people with symptoms and/or signs suggestive of coeliac disease are investigated by serological tests, for example, IgA tissue transglutaminase (tTGA) and IgA endomysial antibodies (EMA), with further referral to a gastrointestinal specialist for endoscopic endoscopic intestinal biopsy to definitively confirm or exclude coeliac disease. There is emerging evidence on the clinical utility of other Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Overview tests and diagnostic strategies, such as deamidated gliadin peptides (DGP), point of care tests and the use of combined serological tests to definitively diagnose coeliac disease without carrying out endoscopic intestinal biopsy. The treatment of coeliac disease is a lifelong gluten-free diet. Adherence to a gluten- free diet has repeatedly been
