Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


to definitively diagnose coeliac disease without carrying out endoscopic intestinal biopsy. The treatment of coeliac disease is a lifelong gluten-free diet. Adherence to a gluten- free diet has repeatedly been shown to be poor, with 20% to 80% of people with coeliac disease admitting to either occasional or prolonged lapses. Specific education and information, such as advice and education on alternative foods in the diet to maintain a healthy and varied intake, which could be provided by a dietitian with experience in coeliac disease, may increase the likelihood of adherence and a positive prognosis. People with coeliac disease are at risk of complications and may have other coexisting conditions. The follow-up care of people with coeliac disease after the diagnosis varies widely within the UK ranging from follow-up care in specialist clinics to being discharged back to the community without any provision of a follow-up service. The majority of people with coeliac disease report a rapid clinical improvement after improvement after starting treatment, and some will still have persisting symptoms after 6 to 12 months. There is currently no conclusive guidance on differential diagnosis of non-responsive coeliac disease, such as infective gastroenteritis, intestinal bacterial overgrowth, lactose intolerance, intestinal lymphoma, and other immunodeficiency conditions. Approximately 10% of people with non-responsive coeliac disease will have true refractory coeliac disease. The management of people with refractory coeliac disease currently varies widely within the UK. 1.4 Population This guideline covers the following groups:  Children, young people and adults with symptoms or signs suggestive of coeliac disease.  Children, young people and adults with confirmed coeliac disease.  Children, young people and adults considered to be at high risk of coeliac disease. This includes people with autoimmune conditions such as type 1 Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Overview diabetes and autoimmune thyroid disease, or those with a first-degree family history of coeliac disease.  Specific subgroups in whom the investigation and management of coeliac disease is known to be different. The following groups are not covered within this guideline:  Children, young people and adults with other gastrointestinal disorders (the guideline will only cover differential diagnosis of non-responsive coeliac disease).  People with non-coeliac disease gluten sensitivity. For the purposes of the guideline populations have been defined in the following way: children are those below age 16, young people are those aged 16 and 17 years, and adults are those aged 18
