Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


with more certainty than others. The Guideline Development Group makes a recommendation based on the trade-off between the benefits and harms of an intervention, taking into account the quality of the underpinning evidence. For some interventions, the Guideline Development Group is confident that, given the information it has looked at, most patients would choose the intervention. The wording used in the recommendations in this guideline denotes the certainty with which the recommendation is made (the strength of the recommendation). For all recommendations, NICE expects that there is discussion with the patient about the risks and benefits of the interventions, and their values and preferences. This discussion aims to help them to reach a fully informed decision (see also ‘Patient-centred care’). Interventions that must (or must not) be used Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Summary section We usually use ‘must’ or ‘must not’ only if there is a legal duty to apply the recommendation. Occasionally we use ‘must’ (or ‘must not’) if the consequences of not following the recommendation could be extremely serious or potentially life threatening. Interventions that should (or should not) be used – a ‘strong’ recommendation We use ‘offer’ (and similar words such as ‘refer’ or ‘advise’) when we are confident when we are confident that an intervention will not be of benefit for most patients. Interventions that could be used We use ‘consider’ when we are confident that an intervention will do more good than harm for most patients, and be cost effective, but other options may be similarly cost effective. The choice of intervention, and whether or not to have the intervention at all, is more likely to depend on the patient’s values and preferences than for a strong recommendation, and so the healthcare professional should spend more time considering and discussing the options with the patient. 2.4 Key priorities for implementation The following recommendations have been identified as priorities for implementation. The full list of recommendations is in section 2.5. Offer serological testing for coeliac disease to:  People with any of the following:  persistent unexplained abdominal or gastrointestinal symptoms  faltering growth  prolonged fatigue  unexpected weight loss  severe or persistent mouth ulcers  unexplained iron, vitamin B12 or folate deficiency  type 1 diabetes, at diagnosis  autoimmune thyroid disease, at diagnosis  irritable bowel syndrome (in adults). Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Summary section 
