Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


to help them follow it. This should include:  information on which types of food contain gluten and suitable alternatives, including gluten-free substitutes  explanations of food labelling  information sources about gluten-free diets, recipe ideas and cookbooks  how to manage social situations, eating out and travelling away from home, including travel abroad  avoiding cross contamination in the home and minimising the risk of accidental gluten intake when eating out  the role of national and local coeliac support groups. [Recommendation 29] 2.5 Full list of recommendations The following guidance is based on the best available evidence. Full details of the methods and the evidence used to develop the guidance are provided in section 3. 2.5.1 Evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease 1. Offer serological testing for coeliac disease to:  People with any of the following:  persistent, unexplained abdominal or gastrointestinal symptoms  faltering growth  prolonged fatigue  unexpected weight loss  severe or persistent mouth ulcers  unexplained iron, vitamin B12 or folate deficiency  type 1 diabetes, at diagnosis Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Summary section  autoimmune thyroid disease, at diagnosis  irritable bowel syndrome (in adults).  First-degree relatives of people with coeliac disease. 2. Consider serological testing for coeliac disease in people with any of the following:  metabolic bone disorder (reduced bone mineral density or osteomalacia)  unexplained neurological symptoms (particularly peripheral neuropathy or ataxia)  unexplained subfertility or recurrent miscarriage  persistently raised liver enzymes with unknown cause  dental enamel defects  Down’s syndrome  Turner syndrome. 3. Advise people who have tested negative for coeliac disease, particularly first- degree relatives and people with type 1 diabetes, that:  coeliac disease may present with a wide range of symptoms and  they should consult their healthcare professional if any of the symptoms listed in recommendations 1 or 2 arise or persist. 2.5.2 Evidence for serological testing for coeliac disease 4. All serological tests should be undertaken in laboratories with clinical pathology accreditation (CPA) or ISO15189 accreditation. 5. When healthcare professionals request serological tests to investigate suspected coeliac disease in young people and adults, laboratories should:  test for total immunoglobulin A (IgA) and IgA tissue transglutaminase (tTG) as the first choice  use IgA endomysial antibodies (EMA) if IgA tTG is weakly positive  consider using IgG EMA, IgG deamidated gliadin peptide (DGP) or
