Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


tissue transglutaminase (tTG) as the first choice  use IgA endomysial antibodies (EMA) if IgA tTG is weakly positive  consider using IgG EMA, IgG deamidated gliadin peptide (DGP) or IgG tTG if IgA is deficienta. 6. When healthcare professionals request serological tests to investigate suspected coeliac disease in children, laboratories should:  test for total IgA and IgA tTG, as the first choice  consider using IgG EMA, IgG DGP or IgG tTG if IgA is deficienta. 7. When laboratories test for total IgA, a specific assay designed to measure total IgA levels should be used. 8. Refer young people and adults with positive serological test resultsb to a gastrointestinal specialist for endoscopic intestinal biopsy to confirm or exclude coeliac disease. b In young people and adults, a positive serological test result is defined as unambiguously positive IgA tTG alone, or weakly positive IgA tTG and a positive IgA EMA test result. Note: In people who have IgA deficiency, a serologically positive result can be derived from any one of the IgG antibodies.c Further investigation may Deleted: ¶ Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Summary section 9. Refer children with positive serological test results to a paediatric gastroenterologist or paediatrician with a specialist interest in gastroenterology for further investigationc for coeliac disease. 10. Refer people with negative serological test results to a gastrointestinal specialist for further assessment if coeliac disease is still clinically suspected. 11. Healthcare professionals should have a low threshold for re-testing people identified in recommendations 1 or 2 if they develop any symptoms consistent with coeliac disease. 12. Laboratories should clearly communicate the interpretation of serological test results and recommended action to healthcare professionals. 13. Do not use human leukocyte antigen (HLA) DQ2 (DQ2.2 and DQ2.5)/DQ8 testing in the initial diagnosis of coeliac disease in non-specialist settings. 14. Only consider using HLA DQ2 (DQ2.2 and DQ2.5)/DQ8 testing in the diagnosis of a biopsy, or in people who already have limited gluten ingestion and choose not to have a gluten challenge). 15. Consider referring people with coeliac disease for endoscopic intestinal biopsy if continued exposure to gluten has been excluded and:  serological titres are persistently high and show little or no change after 12 months or  they have persistent symptoms, including diarrhoea, abdominal pain, weight loss, fatigue or unexplained anaemia. 16. Do not use serological testing alone to determine whether gluten has been excluded
