Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


or  they have persistent symptoms, including diarrhoea, abdominal pain, weight loss, fatigue or unexplained anaemia. 16. Do not use serological testing alone to determine whether gluten has been excluded from the person’s diet. 17. Offer an annual review to people with coeliac disease. During the review:  measure weight and height  review symptoms  consider the need for assessment of diet and adherence to the gluten- free diet  consider the need for specialist dietetic and nutritional advice 18. Refer the person to a GP or consultant if concerns are raised in the annual review. The GP or consultant should assess all of the following:  the need for a dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan (in line with the NICE guideline on osteoporosis: assessing the risk of fragility fracture) or active treatment of bone disease  the need for specific blood tests  the risk of long-term complications and comorbidities  the need for specialist referral. include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following: an IgA EMA test to confirm serological positivity, HLA genetic testing, an endoscopic biopsy. c Further investigation may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following: an IgA EMA test to confirm serological positivity, HLA genetic testing, an endoscopic biopsy. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Summary section 2.5.3 Evidence for non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease 19. Consider the following actions in people with coeliac disease who have persistent symptoms despite advice to exclude gluten from their diet:  review the certainty of the original diagnosis  refer the person to a specialist dietitian to investigate continued exposure to gluten  investigate potential complications or coexisting conditions that may be causing persistent symptoms, such as irritable bowel syndrome, lactose intolerance, bacterial overgrowth, microscopic colitis or inflammatory colitis. 20. Diagnose refractory coeliac disease if the original diagnosis of coeliac disease has been confirmed, and exposure to gluten and any coexisting conditions have been excluded as the cause of continuing symptoms. 21. Refer people with refractory coeliac disease to a specialist centre for further investigation. 22. Consider prednisolone for the initial management of the symptoms of refractory coeliac disease in adults while waiting for specialist advice. 2.5.4 Evidence for information and support related to coeliac disease 23. Do not offer serological testing for coeliac disease in infants before gluten has been introduced into the diet. 24. For
