Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


Evidence for information and support related to coeliac disease 23. Do not offer serological testing for coeliac disease in infants before gluten has been introduced into the diet. 24. For people undergoing investigations for coeliac disease:  explain that any test is accurate only if a gluten-containing diet is eaten during the diagnostic process and  advise the person not to start a gluten-free diet until diagnosis is positive. 25. Advise people who are following a normal diet (containing gluten) to eat some gluten in more than 1 meal every day for at least 6 weeks before testing. 26. If people who have restricted their gluten intake or excluded gluten from their diet are reluctant or unable to re-introduce gluten into their diet before testing:  refer the person to a gastrointestinal specialist and  explain that it may be difficult to confirm their diagnosis by intestinal biopsy. 27. Explain to people who are thought to be at risk of coeliac disease that a delayed serious long-term complications. 28. Give people with coeliac disease (and their family members or carers, where appropriate) sources of information on the disease, including national and local specialist coeliac groups and dietitians with a specialist knowledge in coeliac disease. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Summary section 29. A healthcare professional with a specialist knowledge of coeliac disease should tell people with a confirmed diagnosis of coeliac disease (and their family members or carers, where appropriate) about the importance of a gluten-free diet and give them information to help them follow it. This should include:  information on which types of food contain gluten and suitable alternatives, including gluten-free substitutes  explanations of food labelling  information sources about gluten-free diets, recipe ideas and cookbooks  how to manage social situations, eating out and travelling away from home, including travel abroad  avoiding cross contamination in the home and minimising the risk of accidental gluten intake when eating out  the role of national and local coeliac support groups. 30. Be aware that people with coeliac disease may experience anxiety and depression. Diagnose and manage these issues in line with the following NICE guidelines:  Depression in adults with a chronic physical health problem  Depression in children and young people  Generalised anxiety disorder and panic disorder (with or without agoraphobia) in adults.  Social anxiety disorder 2.5.5 Evidence for advice on dietary
