Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


 Depression in children and young people  Generalised anxiety disorder and panic disorder (with or without agoraphobia) in adults.  Social anxiety disorder 2.5.5 Evidence for advice on dietary management of coeliac disease 31. Advise people with coeliac disease (and their family members or carers, where appropriate) to seek advice from a member of their healthcare team if they are thinking about taking over-the-counter vitamin or mineral supplements. 32. Explain to people with coeliac disease (and their family members or carers, where appropriate) that they may need to take specific supplements such as calcium or vitamin D if their dietary intake is insufficient. 33. Explain to people with coeliac disease (and their family members or carers, where appropriate) that:  they can choose to include gluten-free oats in their diet at any stage and  they will be advised whether to continue eating gluten-free oats 2.6 Key research recommendations The Guideline Development Group has made the following recommendations for research, based on its review of evidence, to improve NICE guidance and patient care in the future. The Guideline Development Group’s full set of research recommendations is detailed in the corresponding sections below. What is the sensitivity and specificity of IgG tissue transglutaminase (tTG), IgG endomysial antibodies (EMA) and IgG deamidated gliadin peptide (DGP) tests in detecting coeliac disease in people with IgA deficiency? Why this is important Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Summary section IgA deficiency is significantly more common in people with coeliac disease than in the general population. People with IgA deficiency will have a false negative result when tested for IgA antibody, which may lead to a missed diagnosis of coeliac disease. A missed diagnosis may result in increased use of NHS resources and the person experiencing the risks associated with undiagnosed coeliac disease. IgG antibodies are recommended for use in place of IgA antibodies in people who have IgA deficiency, but there is limited evidence to demonstrate the sensitivity and specificity of tests for IgG antibodies – that is, IgG tTG, IgG EMA and IgG DGP – in people suspected of having coeliac disease with IgA deficiency. What is the sensitivity and specificity of IgA EMA and IgA DGP tests in detecting coeliac disease in people who test negative for IgA tTG? Why this is important In people with suspected coeliac disease, IgA tTG is most commonly used as the first-choice test to
