Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


disease in people who test negative for IgA tTG? Why this is important In people with suspected coeliac disease, IgA tTG is most commonly used as the first-choice test to detect the presence of coeliac disease antibodies but some people with coeliac disease will get a false negative result. If this happens, and if there is a strong and ongoing antibodies should also be requested. However, there is little evidence for the sensitivity and specificity of these antibodies in people who have tested negative for IgA tTG antibodies. A clearer understanding of the sensitivity and specificity of EMA and DGP antibodies in people who have tested negative for IgA tTG will allow clinicians to better interpret test results and make a more informed diagnosis. Should people with coeliac disease be offered calcium and vitamin D supplements for a specific time period soon after their initial diagnosis? Why this is important People with coeliac disease are at an increased risk of malabsorption of key nutrients such as calcium and vitamin D. This is because of the role gluten plays in preventing these nutrients from being properly absorbed. It is not known how long the body takes to properly absorb these vitamins and minerals once a gluten-free diet is started. It is also not known whether the majority of people diagnosed with coeliac disease have enough calcium and vitamin D in their diet, or whether some people with coeliac disease are able to get enough of these nutrients from what they eat. Answering this research question will help healthcare professionals to understand whether calcium and vitamin D should be offered to everyone at the time of diagnosis and for how long these vitamin and mineral supplements should be taken. How can the role of the dietitian contribute most effectively within a coeliac disease team? Why this is important As a gluten-free diet is the primary treatment option for people with coeliac disease, it is important that a dietitian with a specialist interest in coeliac disease should play a significant role in their care and follow up. Many of the common problems associated with the long-term management of coeliac disease happen because of non-adherence to a gluten-free diet. It is important to explore how to maximise the effectiveness of the dietitian’s role in helping people with coeliac disease to adhere to a gluten-free diet. What is the effectiveness of more frequent monitoring compared
