Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


how to maximise the effectiveness of the dietitian’s role in helping people with coeliac disease to adhere to a gluten-free diet. What is the effectiveness of more frequent monitoring compared with monitoring at 12 months after diagnosis in people with newly diagnosed coeliac disease? Why this is important It is currently not known how often people with coeliac disease should have their condition monitored. No research has adequately investigated the effectiveness of different monitoring Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Summary section frequencies. There is variation across the UK in how often people with coeliac disease have their condition monitored. Further research within this area is important to ensure that people with coeliac disease are having their condition adequately monitored. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Methods 3 Methods This guideline was developed in accordance with the process set out in ‘The guidelines manual (2012)’. There is more information about how NICE clinical guidelines are developed for stakeholders, the public and the NHS’ is available. In instances where the guidelines manual does not provide advice, additional methods are used and are described below. evidence using a Population, Intervention, Comparator, Outcome (PICO framework, and drafted review protocols based on the topics agreed with the stakeholders and included in the scope (see Appendix B) and prepared a protocol for each review question (see Appendix C). These formed the starting point for systematic reviews of relevant evidence. Published evidence was identified by applying systematic search strategies (see Appendix C) to the following databases: Medline (1950 onwards), Embase (1980 onwards), Cumulative Index to Nursing (Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, and the Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects). Searches to identify economic studies were undertaken using the above databases, the NHS Economic Evaluation Database (NHS EED) and the Health Technology Assessment (HTA) database. Where a question was updated directly from CG68 the search strategies used in the CG68 were updated. However for the review question on signs and symptoms, coexisting conditions and first-degree relatives and long-term consequences, the GDG requested some new search for additional terms and these additional searches had no date restriction. No date restrictions were placed on the searches for all new questions. Searches in Embase and Medline were limited to English language and studies in humans. None of the other searches were limited by language of publication (although publications in languages other
