Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


Searches in Embase and Medline were limited to English language and studies in humans. None of the other searches were limited by language of publication (although publications in languages other than English were not reviewed). Validated search filters were used to identify particular study designs, such as RCTs. There was no systematic attempt to search grey literature (conference abstracts, theses or unpublished trials), nor was hand searching undertaken of journals not indexed on the databases. Towards the end of the guideline development process, the searches were updated and re- executed to include evidence published and indexed in the databases by 5th December 2014. 2014. 3.2 Outcomes objectives outlined in each question. The minimum important difference (MID) for both dichotomous and continuous outcomes would be decided by looking at appropriate published evidence or under agreement with the GDG following discussion within committee meetings. On the occasion that no published literature on the minimal important difference was identified and the GDG were unable to specify on a default option was used, for example, in the case of dichotomous outcomes was defined as a relative risk reduction or an increase of 25% or more to be considered clinically important. For this guideline, the effectiveness of interventions/diagnostic strategies to manage coeliac disease has been assessed against a variety of outcomes. The justification for using these outcomes is based on their relevance to people with the condition and the expert consensus Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Methods opinion of members of the multidisciplinary GDG. When assessing the effectiveness of a particular treatment, information about the effect of that treatment on one or more primary outcomes was sought. 3.3 Process 3.3.1 Study identification Identified titles and abstracts were sifted for relevance and data were extracted by 1 reviewer. A second reviewer checked a random 10% of sifted out titles and abstracts, and all excluded studies with the reason for exclusion, and all data extracted for the included studies. 3.3.2 Data extraction Basic characteristics of each included study were summarised into standardised evidence tables for each review question (see Appendix D) along with the quality assessment of the evidence. Where outcome data were presented, results were entered as reported in the full- text report of the study. Some studies were excluded from the guideline reviews after obtaining copies of the publications because they did not meet inclusion criteria specified by the GDG (see Appendix C).
