Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


the study. Some studies were excluded from the guideline reviews after obtaining copies of the publications because they did not meet inclusion criteria specified by the GDG (see Appendix C). These studies are listed in alphabetical order for each question and the reason for exclusion provided for each one. Missing continuous data Where the standard deviation of the mean change from baseline was not reported, we imputed this using either the baseline standard deviation (SD) from the control group or the SD from a similar group. When the standard deviation of the point estimate at study end was not reported, we imputed this using either the baseline standard deviation (SD) from the control group or the SD from a similar group. Missing dichotomous data Where the raw numbers for an outcome were not reported and a percentage was reported, the raw numbers were calculated manually from the reported percentage. When a decimal was calculated the number was rounded up if the decimal was over 0.5 and down if below 0.5. When the outcome is negative (for example, adverse effects or failure rate) the denominator used equalled the total number of the study arm. When the outcome is positive (for example, effectiveness) the denominator used was the number completing in the study arm. Quality assessment checklists For randomised controlled trials, the NICE methodological checklist for RCT’s was used for quality assessment of the evidence. For cohort studies, the NICE methodological checklist for cohort study was used for quality assessment. For diagnostic studies, the QUADAS checklist was used for quality assessment. For qualitative studies, the CASP checklist for qualitative research design was used for quality assessment. For prognostic studies, a prognostic study checklist designed by Hayden and colleagues (2006) was used. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Methods 3.3.3 Meta-analyses Where possible, meta-analyses were conducted to combine the results of studies for each outcome. For continuous outcomes, where change from baseline data were reported in the trials and were accompanied by a measure of spread (for example standard deviation), these were extracted and used in the meta-analysis. . Dichotomous outcomes were presented as relative risks (RRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs), and continuous outcomes were presented as mean differences with 95% CIs or SDs. Software Data for intervention reviews were analysed using Review Manager 5.1 while data for diagnostic reviews was analysed using Meta Disk. An online calculator was used to
