Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


CIs or SDs. Software Data for intervention reviews were analysed using Review Manager 5.1 while data for diagnostic reviews was analysed using Meta Disk. An online calculator was used to calculator confidence intervals around proportions for single studies. 3.3.4 GRADE process The body of evidence identified for each therapy or treatment review question (or part of a review question) was presented in the form of a GRADE evidence profile summarising the quality of the evidence and the findings (pooled relative and absolute effect sizes and associated CIs). Where possible, the body of evidence corresponding to each outcome specified in the review protocol was subjected to quantitative meta-analysis. In such cases, pooled effect sizes were presented as pooled risk ratios (RRs), pooled odds ratios (ORs), or mean differences. A random-effects model was used as default. Where quantitative meta-analysis could not be undertaken, the range of effect sizes reported in the included studies was presented in a GRADE profile. GRADE was used to assess the quality of evidence for the selected outcomes as specified in ‘The guidelines manual (2012)’. The type of review question determines the highest level of evidence that may be sought. For issues of therapy or treatment, the highest possible evidence level is a well conducted systematic review or meta-analysis of RCTs, or an individual RCT. In the GRADE approach, a body of evidence based on RCTs has an initial quality rating of high, but this may be downgraded to moderate, low or very low if the factors the highest possible level of evidence is a controlled observational study (a cohort study or case–control study), and a body of evidence based on such studies would have an initial quality rating of low, which might be downgraded to very low or upgraded to moderate or high, depending on the factors listed above. For each review question the highest available level of evidence was sought. Where appropriate, for example, if a systematic review, meta-analysis or RCT was identified to answer a question directly, studies of a weaker design were not considered. Where systematic reviews, meta-analyses and RCTs were not identified, other appropriate experimental or observational studies were sought. GRADE profiles for interventional evidence The quality ratings for each study are reported the study’s evidence table and are summarised in the footnotes of each GRADE profile. For this guideline, we inserted footnotes to explain the choice we made while assessing the quality
