Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


the study’s evidence table and are summarised in the footnotes of each GRADE profile. For this guideline, we inserted footnotes to explain the choice we made while assessing the quality of evidence for each outcomes. These footnotes indicated if we upgraded the evidence level, downgraded the evidence level or left the evidence level unchanged, and gave the rationale for doing this. The quality of the evidence for each outcome was downgraded where appropriate for the reasons outlined in Table 1. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Methods Table 1: Rationale for downgrading quality of evidence for intervention studies GRADE criteria Example reasons for downgrading quality Risk of bias The quality of the evidence was downgraded if there were concerns about the design or execution of the study, including concealment of allocation, blinding, loss to follow up using intervention checklists in the NICE guidelines manual (2012) Inconsistency The quality of the evidence was downgraded if there were concerns about inconsistency of effects across studies: occurring when there is variability in the treatment effect demonstrated across studies (heterogeneity). This was assessed using the statistic, I2 where ; I2 < 33% was categorised as no inconsistency, I2 between 34% and 66% was categorised as serious inconsistency and I2 > 67% was categorised as very serious inconsistency Indirectness The quality of the evidence was downgraded if there were concerns about the population, intervention and outcome in the included studies and how directly these variables could address the specific review question. Imprecision The quality of the evidence was downgraded if is uncertainty around the estimate of effect, for example when the confidence intervals are wide and cross the ‘imaginary’ lines of clinically significant effect that is a minimal important difference. This reflects the confidence in the estimate of effect. Other Providing no downgrading for other features has occurred, the quality of the considerations evidence could be upgraded if there was evidence of a dose-response relationship, or confounding variables likely to have reduced the magnitude of an effect. 3.3.4.1 Modified GRADE for diagnostic evidence GRADE has not been developed for use with diagnostic studies; therefore a modified approach was applied using the GRADE framework. Cohort studies within the GRADE approach start at the low quality level due to accepted inherent study design limitations. Within a modified approach, where evidence from cohort studies has been deemed to be the most appropriate source of information to answer
