Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


Team 2015 Coeliac disease Methods existing economic evaluation is useful to inform the decision-making of the GDG for a specific topic within the guideline. There are two parts of the appraisal process; the first step is to assess applicability (i.e. the relevance of the study to the specific guideline topic and the NICE reference case) (Table 4). Table 4: Applicability criteria Directly applicable The study meets all applicability criteria, or fails to meet one or more applicability criteria but this is unlikely to change the conclusions about cost effectiveness Partially applicable The study fails to meet one or more applicability criteria, and this could change the conclusions about cost effectiveness Not applicable The study fails to meet one or more applicability criteria, and this is likely to change the conclusions about cost effectiveness. These studies are excluded from further consideration In the second step, only those studies deemed directly or partially applicable are further assessed for limitations (i.e. the methodological quality, Table 5). Table 5: Methodological criteria Minor limitations Meets all quality criteria, or fails to meet one or more quality criteria but this is unlikely to change the conclusions about cost effectiveness Potentially serious Fails to meet one or more quality criteria and this could change the limitations conclusions about cost effectiveness Very serious Fails to meet one or more quality criteria and this is highly likely to change limitations the conclusions about cost effectiveness. Such studies should usually be excluded from further consideration Where relevant, a summary of the main findings from the systematic search, review and appraisal of economic evidence is presented in an economic evidence profile alongside the clinical evidence. Original health economic modelling was conducted for 3 questions that were prioritised by the GDG for detailed analysis: order and sequencing of serological tests (see section 5.2), active case-finding (see section 4.4) and dietetic involvement in follow-up (considered as part of the review on frequency of follow-up; see section 5.4. Each analysis relied on broadly the same model, which was originally developed for the serological testing question and subsequently modified to address other questions. Full details of the methods of the models are provided in Appendix G. In questions for which no published evidence was identified and original analysis was not prioritised, the GDG made a qualitative judgement about cost effectiveness by considering potential differences in resource use and cost between the options alongside the results
