Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


and original analysis was not prioritised, the GDG made a qualitative judgement about cost effectiveness by considering potential differences in resource use and cost between the options alongside the results of the review of evidence of clinical effectiveness 3.5 Agreeing the recommendations explicitly to, the evidence that supported them. In the first instance, informal consensus appropriate, cost effectiveness evidence statements, which were presented alongside the evidence profiles. Statements summarising the guideline development group’s interpretation of the evidence and any extrapolation from the evidence used to form recommendations were also prepared to ensure transparency in the decision-making process. The ‘Linking evidence to recommendations’ (LETR) criteria used in moving from evidence to recommendations were:  relative value placed on the outcomes considered Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Methods  consideration of the clinical benefits and harms  consideration of net health benefits and resource use  quality of the evidence  other considerations (including equalities issues). development group considered other evidence-based guidelines and consensus statements or used their collective experience to identify good practice. The health economics justification in areas of the guideline where the use of NHS resources (interventions) was considered was based on guideline development group consensus in relation to the likely cost effectiveness implications of the recommendations. The guideline development group this information to formulate recommendations for future research The wording used in the recommendations in this guideline denotes the certainty with which the recommendations were made. Some recommendations were made with more certainty than others. Recommendations are based on the trade-off between the benefits and harms of an intervention, whilst taking into account the quality of the underpinning evidence. For all recommendations, it is expected that a discussion will take place with the patients about the risks and benefits of the interventions, and their values and preferences. This discussion should help the patient reach a fully informed decision. Terms used within this guideline are:  ‘Do not offer’ – the intervention will not be of benefit for most patients most patients. The choice of intervention, and whether or not to have the intervention at all, is more likely to depend on the patient’s values and preferences than for an ‘offer’ recommendation, and so the healthcare professional should spend more time considering and discussing the options with the patient. Towards the end of the guideline development process, formal consensus methods were used to consider all the clinical
