Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


should spend more time considering and discussing the options with the patient. Towards the end of the guideline development process, formal consensus methods were used to consider all the clinical care recommendations and research recommendations that had been drafted previously. The guideline development group identified up to 10 ‘key priorities for implementation’ (key recommendations) and 5 high-priority research recommendations. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease 4 Evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease 4.1 Signs & symptoms 4.1.1 Review question What are the clinical signs and symptoms that raise suspicion of coeliac disease? 4.1.2 Methods The aim of this review question was to establish which presenting clinical features may raise suspicion about the presence of coeliac disease and the need for serological testing. This is an update of the chapter on ‘clinical signs and symptoms of coeliac disease’ in the 2009 guideline for coeliac disease (CG86). This updated review incorporates studies that were included in the previous guideline together with newly-published evidence. Studies were considered if they met the following inclusion criteria: the population examined was children, young people, or adults with undiagnosed coeliac disease who presented with clinical signs and symptoms that may raise suspicion for the disease; coeliac disease diagnosis was confirmed by intestinal biopsy. Studies were excluded from analyses if people were receiving treatment for coeliac disease at the time of testing; if the diagnosis of coeliac disease was not confirmed by intestinal biopsy; if the population of interest had non-coeliac gluten sensitivity or wheat allergy. An exhaustive list of clinical signs and symptoms was suggested by the GDG within the review protocol (see Appendix C) prior to conducting the literature searches for this review question. The comparator was a biopsy-confirmed diagnosis of coeliac disease. The outcome of interest was the diagnostic utility of the odds ratio of having coeliac disease, given the presence of a particular sign or symptom, compared to the odds of not having the disease in the absence of that sign or symptom. Case-control studies were considered the most appropriate study design to derive signs and symptoms odds ratios for this question and were therefore considered the highest quality within a modified GRADE framework. All other study designs were downgraded from this review, including cohort studies, case-reports, case series, and qualitative studies. Studies could be downgraded due to reasons such as imprecision of odds ratio
