Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


other study designs were downgraded from this review, including cohort studies, case-reports, case series, and qualitative studies. Studies could be downgraded due to reasons such as imprecision of odds ratio metrics, the presence of study bias, or inconsistency of effect estimates between studies. Included studies A single systematic search was conducted for sections 4.1, 4.2, and 4.3 (see Appendix C) which identified 7230 references. This search was restricted to studies published from 2008 onwards to avoid duplicates of studies considered in the previous coeliac disease guideline (CG86).The references were screened on their titles and abstracts and full papers of 134 references were obtained and reviewed against the inclusion and exclusion criteria in the review protocol (see Appendix C). Overall, 128 studies were excluded as they did not meet the eligibility criteria such as inappropriate study design (case-series), not a primary study (descriptive narrative, opinion, etc.), examined the prevalence of coeliac disease in certain populations, studies in which the study population was not suspected of coeliac disease (but may have had an increased risk for developing coeliac disease, such as a commonly comorbid condition, or a family history of coeliac disease), and studies which did not use Marsh grade 3 for the histological Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease diagnosis of coeliac disease. A detailed list of excluded studies and reasons for their exclusion is provided in Appendix F. The 6 remaining published papers did meet the eligibility criteria and were included. Data was extracted into detailed evidence tables (see Appendix D) and are summarised below. Two published papers (Olen et al., 2008; Mollazedegen et al., 2009) utilised the same database of Swedish men who underwent medical testing prior to and post conscription. Three published papers (Olen et al., 2008; Mollazedegen et al., 2009; Ludvigsson et al., 2013) also utilised the same control database of Swedish national register of patient information. The 11 included studies in the previous coeliac disease guideline (CG86) were reviewed against the current protocol. Of these, all were excluded as they did not meet eligibility criteria. Primary reasons for exclusion included inappropriate study design, such as prevalence studies; populations that were already being treated for coeliac disease at the time of inclusion, or who were examined for a sign or symptom after the diagnosis of coeliac disease, and studies in which coeliac disease diagnosis was not biopsy-confirmed. The overall
