Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


time of inclusion, or who were examined for a sign or symptom after the diagnosis of coeliac disease, and studies in which coeliac disease diagnosis was not biopsy-confirmed. The overall quality of the evidence from these published papers ranged from very low to moderate, with the majority of evidence to be of low quality. 4.1.3 Evidence review 4.1.3.1 Intussusception in adults One large nation-wide population study examined the relationship between intussusception and coeliac disease in a group of newly-diagnosed coeliac disease patients (n=29096; mean age 30 years) and healthy control participants (n=144522; age- matched). The prevalence of intussusception was very low in both the coeliac (0.12%) and control (0.10%) groups. 4.1.3.2 Low BMI in adults One large study identified adult males with or without coeliac disease through a national inpatients register of men who were admitted to hospital immediately prior to or post conscription. This study was broken down into two parts; a cohort study and case- control study. Only case-control study data examining the association between low BMI and coeliac disease was used in this analysis. In order to be eligible for the study, data on weight and height had to have been available at the time of study. Only data for those diagnosed with coeliac disease after review of weight and BMI were included in the analyses (n=70; age range 18-50 years). Controls were identified via a government total population register and were matched to patients for age, sex, and country of residence (n=6887; age range 18–50 years). 4.1.3.3 Impaired visual acuity in adults One large study identified adult males with or without coeliac disease through a national inpatients register of men who were admitted to hospital immediately prior to or post conscription. This study was broken down into two parts; a cohort study and case-control study. Only case-control study data examining the association between impaired visual acuity and coeliac disease was used in this analysis. In order to be eligible for the study, data on visual acuity had to have been available at the time of study. Only data for those diagnosed with coeliac disease after review of visual acuity were included in the analyses (n=69; mean age 18.9 years). Controls were identified via a government total population register and were matched to patients for age, sex, and country of residence (n=6850; mean age 18.7 years). Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for the recognition
