Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


evidence to suggest that certain populations are at an increased risk of developing coeliac disease. It is necessary to identify these populations so that appropriate consideration for serological testing for coeliac disease can be made. 4.2.2 Methods This review question concerns the identification of possible subgroups of people with coeliac disease. The aim of considering coexisting conditions was to examine whether people with certain conditions have a higher rate of coeliac disease than the general population while the estimation of familial risk is essential in a genetics-based condition such as coeliac disease. This focus on improving the identification of people with possible asymptomatic coeliac disease may also include active case finding in particular subgroups with a higher risk of coeliac disease. Included studies examined the presence of the following:  Coexisting diseases  Other factors (i.e. first-degree relatives) The prevalence of coeliac disease in the populations studied was compared to a general population prevalence of 1.0%. An increased risk of coeliac disease is indicated when the confidence intervals around the prevalence in the population subgroup are all above 1.0% whereas the point estimate and confidence interval below 1.0% or crossing 1.0% indicates no increased risk compared to the general population. 4.2.3 Evidence review A single systematic search was conducted for sections 4.1, 4.2, and 4.3 (see Appendix C) which identified 7230 references. This search was restricted to studies published from 2008 onwards to avoid duplicates of studies considered in the previous coeliac disease guideline (CG86).The references were screened on their titles and abstracts and full papers of 336 references were obtained and reviewed against the inclusion and exclusion criteria in the review protocol (see Appendix C). Overall, 69 studies which examined the prevalence of coeliac disease in other conditions or first-degree relatives were included (see Appendix C). The remaining 267 studies were excluded. Reasons for exclusion are listed in Appendix F. Description of included studies Addison’s disease A single study investigated 85 adults with autoimmune Addison’s disease. The age of study participants ranged from 18 to 82 years and 61 (71.8%) were female. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease Arthritis Three studies (Atzeni et al., 2008; Coacciloli et al., 2010; Francis et al., 2002) investigated a total of 222 adults with arthritis. The age of study participants ranged from 20 to 84 years and in total 147 (66.2%) were female. 195 (87.8%)
