Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


all four components of this question at the end of this chapter. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease 4.3 Conditions associated with undiagnosed / untreated coeliac disease 4.3.1 Review question What are the long-term consequences of undiagnosed or untreated coeliac disease? It is estimated that only one fifth of those with coeliac disease are currently diagnosed. This indicates that up to four out of every five people with coeliac disease are currently untreated and at risk of serious long-term health complications. It is imperative to understand the nature of these long-term complications in order to understand the risks of untreated CD, particularly in populations who are deemed ‘at risk’ for this condition, as explored in section 4.2. 4.3.2 Methods The aim of this question was both to identify information to be provided to people at the time of diagnoses (in the case of untreated coeliac disease) and to identify those long-term consequences of undiagnosed coeliac disease. The GDG agreed to include studies which used either biopsy, according to Marsh 3 histological criteria, or positive serological test results to confirm the diagnosis of coeliac disease. The results for both are presented separately within this chapter. The GDG agreed to consider prevalence studies as well as studies estimating risk of having coeliac disease compared to a control group of age and gender matched participants. The GDG however made a post-hoc decision to include only those studies where an estimation of the risk was presented. The GDG considered that this was easier evidence to interpret and would be more useful in clinical practice. The group also felt that have two different types of evidence for the same reviewing question could be confusing and potentially misleading. A single systematic search was conducted for sections 4.1, 4.2, and 4.3 (see Appendix C) which identified 7230 references. This search was restricted to studies published from 2008 onwards to avoid duplicates of studies considered in the previous coeliac disease guideline (CG86).The references were screened on their titles and abstracts and full papers of 161 references were obtained and reviewed against the inclusion and exclusion criteria in the review protocol (see Appendix F). Eleven studies (Canavan et al., 2011; Duerksen et al., 2010; Godfrey et al., 2010; Hogen- Esch et al., 2011; Jafri et al., 2008; Kumar et al., 2011, Leboff et al., 2013; Lohi et al., 2009; Sanchez et
