Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


low quality evidence from a single study reported the risk of undiagnosed coeliac disease in those with male factor infertility to be an odds ratio of 5.4 (95% CI 0.9 to 32.3) Very low quality evidence from a single study reported the risk of undiagnosed coeliac disease in infertile (any cause) women to be an odds ratio of 2.4 (95% CI 0.5 to 12.1) Very low quality evidence from a single study reported the risk of undiagnosed coeliac disease in infertile (any cause) men to be an odds ratio of 0.9 (95% CI 0.2 to 4.1) Low quality evidence from a single study reported the risk of undiagnosed coeliac disease in unexplained infertility in women to be an odds ratio of 4.5 (95% CI 1.4 to 19.2) 4.3.6 Evidence to recommendations All four sub-questions relating to the evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease were presented in tandem and discussed together. Therefore, the linking evidence to recommendation information will be presented for all four components of this question at the end of this chapter. 4.3.7 Recommendations & research recommendations All four sub-questions relating to the evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease were presented in tandem and discussed together. Therefore, the associated recommendations will be presented for all four components of this question at the end of this chapter. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease 4.4 Active case-finding 4.4.1 Review question Should active case-finding be implemented in people with coexisting conditions/subgroups that are associated with an increased risk of coeliac disease? There are certain populations of people that have an increased risk of developing coeliac disease, as explored in section 4.2. Understanding the utility of case-finding in these populations will inform whether active case finding should be implemented in any of those populations. Case finding aims to increase diagnosis of coeliac disease in people who have the condition but are currently unaware and untreated in order to minimise the potential for section 4.3. 4.4.2 Methods The aim of this review was to establish if patients with specific health conditions or specific subgroups with an increased risk of coeliac disease should be proactively investigated for coeliac disease. 4.4.3 Evidence review A systematic search was conducted (see Appendix C) which identified 1483 references. References were screened on their titles and abstracts and full papers of 30 references were obtained and reviewed against the exclusion
