Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


was conducted (see Appendix C) which identified 1483 references. References were screened on their titles and abstracts and full papers of 30 references were obtained and reviewed against the exclusion and inclusion criteria in the review protocol (see Appendix C). All of these studies were excluded for reasons such as not being a primary study i.e. comment or letter to editor, or inappropriate study design i.e. following-up only serologically- positive individuals with a biopsy. . In addition, the 1902 papers that were identified in the searches sections 5.1 and 5.2 (serological testing) were re-reviewed based on title and abstract in order to identify any studies that may meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria for the present question. No studies of relevance to the present review question were identified in this database. 4.4.4 Health economic evidence 4.4.4.1 Systematic review of published cost–utility analyses An economic evaluations filter was applied to the search protocol for this review question with the aim of finding economic evaluations that explored the cost effectiveness of active case-finding for coeliac disease in at-risk subgroups. The search identified 236 references. The references were screened on their titles and abstracts and 20 full-texts were ordered. Four cost–utility analyses were found of relevance to the question: Mein & Ladabaum (2004) and Mohseninejad et al. (2013) explored testing people with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) for coeliac disease; Swigonski et al. (2006) looked at case-finding in children with Down’s syndrome; and Dretzke et al. (2004) analysed children newly diagnosed with type 1 diabetes. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease 4.4.4.2 Original health economic analysis An original cost–utility model was used to explore the benefits, harms and costs associated with serological investigation of people at increased risk of coeliac disease. A modified version of the model developed to analyse the serological investigation of people with symptoms suggestive of coeliac disease was used (see 5.2.4.2). In addition to the various testing strategies, an arm was simulated in which no testing was offered, in order to estimate the value of case-finding compared with none. The GDG prioritised 4 different populations in which to investigate this question: first-degree relatives of people with coeliac disease, people with irritable bowel syndrome, people with type 1 diabetes and people with autoimmune thyroid disease. This choice was based on the populations in which the GDG believed there was greatest current uncertainty and/or
