Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


syndrome, people with type 1 diabetes and people with autoimmune thyroid disease. This choice was based on the populations in which the GDG believed there was greatest current uncertainty and/or variation in practice. Parameters that differed between these populations were prevalence of coeliac disease, baseline health-related quality of life and life expectancy. Prevalence estimates were drawn from the evidence synthesis conducted as part of the clinical review identifying populations at an increased risk of developing coeliac disease (see 4.2). On GDG advice, UK-specific data from this review were used, where they were available; if no UK-only studies were found for the population in question, the pooled value for all included studies was used. For first- degree relatives, type 1 diabetes and autoimmune thyroid disease, separate analyses were conducted for adults and children; for irritable bowel syndrome, adults only were considered, as the GDG advised that irritable bowel syndrome is a very uncommon diagnosis in children. Full details of the methods and results of the model are provided in Appendix G. 4.4.5 Evidence statements No clinical evidence that met the inclusion and exclusion criteria for this question was found. 4.4.5.1 Health economic evidence statements Evidence for the cost effectiveness of screening first-degree relatives of people with coeliac disease An original, directly applicable cost–utility analysis with minor limitations estimated that case- finding in adult first-degree relatives of people with coeliac disease results in improved quality of life at increased cost, with an ICER of £14,000 per QALY gained. The ICER remained related quality of life of people with subclinical coeliac disease by 1.24% or more (compared with a base-case estimate of 1.48%). An original, directly applicable cost–utility analysis with minor limitations estimated that case- finding in child first-degree relatives of people with coeliac disease results in improved quality of life at increased cost, with an ICER of £18,800 per QALY gained. The ICER remained related quality of life of people with subclinical coeliac disease by 1.36% or more (compared with a base-case estimate of 1.48%). Evidence for the cost effectiveness of screening people with type 1 diabetes for coeliac disease An original, directly applicable cost–utility analysis with minor limitations estimated that case- finding in adults with type 1 diabetes results in improved quality of life at increased cost, with an ICER of £17,100 per QALY gained. The ICER remained below £20,000 as long as it could be assumed that a gluten-free diet
