Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


quality of life at increased cost, with an ICER of £17,100 per QALY gained. The ICER remained below £20,000 as long as it could be assumed that a gluten-free diet improves the health-related quality of life of people with subclinical coeliac disease by 1.50% or more (compared with a base-case estimate of 1.48%). Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease An original, directly applicable cost–utility analysis with minor limitations estimated that case- finding in children with type 1 diabetes results in improved quality of life at increased cost, with an ICER of £20,600 per QALY gained. The ICER fell below £20,000 if it could be assumed that a gluten-free diet improves the health-related quality of life of people with subclinical coeliac disease by 1.94% or more (compared with a base-case estimate of 1.48%). A partially applicable health economic analysis with potentially serious limitations looking at testing for coeliac disease in children newly diagnosed with type 1 diabetes (Dretzke et al., 2004) found that screening with EMA is the most cost-effective option in this group of children. Evidence for the cost effectiveness of screening people with autoimmune thyroid disease for coeliac disease An original, directly applicable cost–utility analysis with minor limitations estimated that case- finding in adults with autoimmune thyroid disease results in improved quality of life at increased cost, with an ICER of £26,000 per QALY gained. The ICER fell below £20,000 if it could be assumed that a gluten-free diet improves the health-related quality of life of people with subclinical coeliac disease by 1.74% or more (compared with a base-case estimate of 1.48%). An original, directly applicable cost–utility analysis with minor limitations estimated that case- finding in children with autoimmune thyroid disease results in improved quality of life at increased cost, with an ICER of £28,300 per QALY gained. The ICER fell below £20,000 if it could be assumed that a gluten-free diet improves the health-related quality of life of people with subclinical coeliac disease by 2.44% or more (compared with a base-case estimate of 1.48%). Evidence for the cost effectiveness of screening people with irritable bowel syndrome for coeliac disease An original, directly applicable cost–utility analysis with minor limitations estimated that case- finding in adults with irritable bowel syndrome results in improved quality of life at increased cost, with an ICER of £20,800 per QALY gained. The ICER fell below £20,000
