Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


case- finding in adults with irritable bowel syndrome results in improved quality of life at increased cost, with an ICER of £20,800 per QALY gained. The ICER fell below £20,000 if it could be assumed that a gluten-free diet improves the health-related quality of life of people with subclinical coeliac disease by 1.64% or more (compared with a base-case estimate of 1.48%). A partially applicable health economic analysis with potentially serious limitations looking at testing for coeliac disease in people with IBS , found that screening is likely to be cost effective in people experiencing diarrhoea or mixed symptoms (diarrhoea and constipation) of IBS. Excluding the group of patients with symptoms of only constipation improves the cost effectiveness of screening. A partially applicable health economic analysis with potentially serious limitations looking at testing for coeliac disease in people with symptoms consistent with an IBS diagnosis (Mein & Ladabaum, 2004), found that screening in this population is cost effective. Evidence for the cost effectiveness of screening children with Down’s syndrome for coeliac disease A partially applicable health economic analysis with potentially serious limitations looking at testing for coeliac disease as a way to prevent lymphoma in asymptomatic children with Down’s syndrome , found that quality of life does not improve and costs increase when compared with not screening this population. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease 4.4.6 Evidence to recommendations Relative value Signs and symptoms of different outcomes The GDG recognised a lack of evidence for the signs and symptoms of coeliac disease (CD), and in particular the most commonly recognised presenting signs and symptoms such as gastrointestinal dysfunction, weight loss, and abdominal pain. The group discussed this and agreed that, because CD is such a well-established disorder in terms of recognition of the common features, there is no impetus to conduct research into this area, and therefore no evidence to support established clinical knowledge. The GDG further recognised that differentiating between symptoms in terms of those that should prompt clinicians to offer serological testing, and those where clinicians should consider serological testing, is further made difficult by the lack of supportive evidence to differentiate between these two classes of recommendations. Coexisting conditions and active case-finding The GDG raised the importance of increasing recognition of CD, which is widely underdiagnosed in the UK. Outlining which particular coexisting conditions have an increased risk of
