Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


and active case-finding The GDG raised the importance of increasing recognition of CD, which is widely underdiagnosed in the UK. Outlining which particular coexisting conditions have an increased risk of CD is of utmost importance in order to increase awareness for, and testing for, CD in these populations. This can be difficult due to an overlap or masking of CD-like symptoms with symptoms of coexisting conditions. The group noted that they would expect a gain in health-related quality of life after a diagnosis of CD was made in those with coexisting conditions; however no evidence was found for this outcome. Long-term complications The GDG felt that raising awareness of CD to increase diagnosis was of particular importance in order to minimise the likelihood of the development of serious long-term complications. Trade-off Signs and symptoms of CD between benefits and The GDG was clear about the importance of serological testing for CD harms in any person where a clinical suspicion has arisen. The group cited the estimate that 4 out of 5 people with CD are currently undiagnosed, and that it is of utmost importance to improve diagnoses of these individuals by increasing both clinical and community awareness of CD and the associated signs and symptoms. The GDG agreed that there were certain signs and symptoms and coexisting conditions that are sufficiently associated with CD that people with them should be offered serological testing, and developed recommendations to reflect this. The GDG further discussed the non- specific nature of many of the signs and symptoms and consequently added 'unexplained' and 'chronic' to the description of some signs and symptoms to ensure that people who may have CD are identified. Neurological symptoms were discussed in detail, as the group recognised that the literature to support suspicion of CD in this Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease population was scarce. However, it was noted that a considerable number of individuals were detected by neurologists on the basis of recommendations in the previous guideline, which changed their practice substantially and subsequently led to a greater awareness of CD in patients with neurological symptoms. For this reason the GDG was convinced that serological testing should be considered in populations with neurological symptoms, especially ataxia or peripheral neuropathy, which have been reported in numerous case reports. The GDG agreed a list of further signs, symptoms and coexisting conditions
