Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


in populations with neurological symptoms, especially ataxia or peripheral neuropathy, which have been reported in numerous case reports. The GDG agreed a list of further signs, symptoms and coexisting conditions for which they wanted to raise awareness of the link with coeliac disease. Therefore recommendations were developed that identified where offering serological testing for CD should be considered. The GDG also recognised that prolonged fatigue was a very common presenting feature of a myriad of disorders, both physical and psychiatric. However, members of the group cited research by Hin et al. (1999) which suggests that up to 3% of those who present with unexplained prolonged fatigue were positive for CD antibodies. The group also cited their vast clinical anecdotal experience in which many people who had previously thought of themselves as asymptomatic retrospectively recognised that they had been very tired for up to a decade before diagnosis was made. The importance of addressing the cause of prolonged fatigue was also raised as of high importance in paediatric patients, in whom fatigue is highly uncommon. Active case-finding The GDG emphasised that anyone who has symptoms suggestive of CD should be offered serological testing regardless of any coexisting conditions or characteristics. Therefore, the population of interest for the assessment of case-finding strategies should comprise people who are not currently experiencing such symptoms to a degree that leads them to seek advice from healthcare professionals. Following the conventions of the Oslo consensus statement on definitions for coeliac disease and related terms , the GDG preferred to refer to this group of people as experiencing 'subclinical' CD. This term is preferable to 'asymptomatic' disease, as it is clear that many people with undiagnosed CD have a history of symptoms that are retrospectively considered significant once a diagnosis has been established; moreover, it is common for people to report an improvement in such symptoms when they start a gluten-free diet (GFD). Therefore, people with subclinical CD should not be considered truly asymptomatic; instead, they are defined as people who experience 'disease that is below the threshold of clinical detection without signs or symptoms sufficient to trigger CD testing in routine practice' . First-degree relatives Current practice is to offer serological testing to first-degree relatives. The assumption that people do or do not have CD at the time of testing is incorrect. People may undergo seroconversion, which is problematic as a clinician may tell someone that
