Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


assumption that people do or do not have CD at the time of testing is incorrect. People may undergo seroconversion, which is problematic as a clinician may tell someone that they are not CD positive, but that person may develop CD at a later time. Ruling HLA DQ2/DQ8 out is Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease important, as a clinician can then definitively conclude that if someone suspected of CD does not have HLA DQ2/DQ8, then they will never develop CD. While this could be very useful, it is pragmatically very difficult as a GP cannot request HLA DQ2/DQ8 testing as this needs to consuming, and therefore, in the opinion of the GDG, impractical. Type 1 diabetes The GDG raised the important notion that it is not sufficient to just test adults who present with gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms, as suggested in the current diabetes guideline. When people present at a diabetic clinic they are commonly only asked about diabetic features i.e. sugar, eyes, feet, etc., and GI symptoms are not discussed as part of a patient’s diabetic review so go unnoticed and therefore untested. It is estimated that 15–20% of people have GI symptoms, but people don’t realise that these may be relevant to their diabetes and so do not raise it with their diabetes consultant. The group felt strongly that it was very important to have a low threshold for testing people with diabetes to optimise dietary management of their diabetes and their potential CD-related symptoms. The GDG discussed current recommendations within the diabetes guideline relating to testing for CD when a low BMI is noted. The group discussed that weight loss and low BMI are a feature of CD and noted that, although weight loss can be a symptom of CD, the traditional view of a person with CD being underweight is no longer true and that people with diabetes may present underweight, at a normal weight or overweight. It is therefore important that low BMI should not be highlighted as the only circumstance in which suspicion of CD should be raised in someone with diabetes. The GDG also discussed testing for CD at the time of diagnosis of diabetes, and noted that this could be problematic in some circumstances. The group recognised that it may be too emotionally or cognitively difficult for the patient to take on the importance
