Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


and noted that this could be problematic in some circumstances. The group recognised that it may be too emotionally or cognitively difficult for the patient to take on the importance of each of their separate diagnoses. For these reasons, the GDG considered that it would be reasonable for a short delay (unlikely to be more than 6 months) between diagnosis of type 1 diabetes and testing for CD. The group chose not to complicate its recommendations with explicit discussion of this issue, as it believed that most clinicians would use their discretion in providing tests and information in an appropriate timeframe, and it did not want to detract from the importance of providing the test for everyone who has received a diagnosis of type 1 diabetes. Long-term complications The GDG felt that the available evidence highlighted the very serious nature of the potential long-term complications of undiagnosed CD. Osteoporosis was felt to be the most common potential long-term complication and the GDG felt that the evidence adequately reflected clinical experience. The GDG noted that, although there is an increased risk of malignancy with undiagnosed CD, the overall risk of developing specific cancers is Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease low. The evidence for infertility was somewhat inconsistent. However, due to the serious emotional impact infertility has on a couple trying to conceive, the group still felt that it was important to raise awareness that CD could be contributing to this, and that clinicians should consider serological testing if other causes of infertility have been ruled out. Overall, the group felt strongly that serological testing is inexpensive and non-invasive, and that, if potentially very serious long-term complications could be avoided by having a diagnosis of CD made, the benefit of doing so far outweighs the potential detriment in having to follow a GFD. This trade-off was explored explicitly in original health economic modelling (see below). Economic Active case-finding considerations The original health economic analysis for this question was based on a modified version of the model developed to compare various serological testing strategies. Therefore, many of the considerations discussed in that question apply here (see 5.2.6). It was a potential weakness of the analysis that no evidence was found to estimate the diagnostic accuracy of different testing strategies in the populations of interest. Therefore, it was assumed that the sensitivity and specificity of
