Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


analysis that no evidence was found to estimate the diagnostic accuracy of different testing strategies in the populations of interest. Therefore, it was assumed that the sensitivity and specificity of the tests did not differ between populations, and data from the review of diagnostic accuracy in people presenting with symptoms suggestive of CD were used (see 5.1.3 and 5.2.3). with subclinical CD are captured in 2 ways. Firstly, the quality of life of the proportion of people who follow advice to adopt a GFD will improve. Secondly, those people are subject to reduced incidence of long-term complications of CD, some of which have an impact on life expectancy. The GDG understood that, in all the populations simulated in the model, a reduction in long-term complications (with attendant improvement in life expectancy) was not, on its own, sufficient to counterbalance the costs and harms of testing (including serological assays and endoscopic biopsy in people who test positive). In contrast, the day-to- day quality of life benefit associated with a true-positive diagnosis only had to be small to make case-finding good value for money. The quality of life evidence used in the model's base case was drawn from an Argentinian study in which quality of life was measured (using the SF-36) at the point of diagnosis and following 3 months' treatment with a GFD. This suggested that people with subclinical CD who adopt a GFD experience quality of life that is, on average, approximately 1.5% better than those who continue to ingest gluten . Although the study appears to have been well conducted, the sample of patients of interest to this model is very small; as a result, the estimate of effect is very uncertain. However, this uncertainty is appropriately propagated through the model, which presents a probabilistic synthesis of all parameters. The GDG expressed a clear view that it was appropriate to make a base-case assumption that adopting a GFD improves quality of life in people who were not complaining of symptoms at the time of diagnosis. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease Members of the group advised that, in their experience, many people who are diagnosed with subclinical CD report a history of symptoms that, while troublesome, had not led them to seek medical advice. Furthermore, the GDG reported that such people commonly report an improvement in such symptoms when starting a
