Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


of symptoms that, while troublesome, had not led them to seek medical advice. Furthermore, the GDG reported that such people commonly report an improvement in such symptoms when starting a GFD. Finally, the fact that most people who have been diagnosed with subclinical disease elect to continue with a GFD is an indication that they are conscious of a perceptible improvement in quality of life. The GDG understood that a difference in quality of life of the magnitude used in the model’s base case to estimate the benefit of a GFD for people with subclinical CD is very small (1.5%). For comparison, the smallest effect that is detectable by the EQ-5D instrument and UK tariff (that is, the smallest change in quality of life that would result from an improvement in a single domain score) is equivalent to more than a 4% improvement in quality of life. Therefore, it was reasonable to assume that, if the quality of life of an average person with subclinical CD who adopts a GFD is improves by a degree that is perceptible to that person, a gain of at least 1.5% – and probably greater – on a quantitative measure could be expected. In this context, the base-case value should be seen as conservative. suggested that case-finding in adults is likely to represent reasonable value for money. Base-case ICERs ranged between £14,000 per QALY gained (first-degree relatives) and £26,000 per QALY gained (autoimmune thyroid disease) for the best serological strategy compared with no testing. Case-finding was slightly more expensive in children than in adults, largely due to the increased costs associated with endoscopic biopsy in children (which usually requires anaesthesia). Nevertheless, case- finding resulted in improved quality of life, with ICERs ranging between £18,800 per QALY gained (first-degree relatives) and £28,300 per QALY gained (autoimmune thyroid disease). Although base-case ICERs exceeded £20,000 in type 1 diabetes (children only) and autoimmune thyroid disease (children and adults), the GDG felt these were likely to be somewhat underestimated, as the model only captured health gains that are associated with the diagnosis and management of CD. However, the group believed that, in both these conditions, correct identification of CD would also lead to superior management of the underlying condition, with associated improvement in quality of life. In the case of type 1 diabetes, the glycaemic control of people with subclinical CD is known to be improved by adopting
