Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


condition, with associated improvement in quality of life. In the case of type 1 diabetes, the glycaemic control of people with subclinical CD is known to be improved by adopting a GFD. Additionally, dietary management is complex in people with both conditions, as each imposes its own requirements; in this context, the GDG believed it is critical for children to have access to appropriate dietetic support, so diagnosis of subclinical CD is very important. In the case of autoimmune thyroid disease, untreated coeliac enteropathy interferes with the absorption of oral medications that are critical to managing the condition. Correct identification of CD, therefore, should be associated with more stable and effective medication requirements, improving the person's quality of life. In both these instances, the GDG felt that, although the additional benefits would be very hard to quantify without a complicated model of 2 concurrent disease processes, they Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease were examples of 'change in the quality of life [that] is inadequately captured' in the analysis and, therefore, good reasons to recommend case-finding in populations that had base-case ICERs in the range £20– 30,000. In all cases, results were very sensitive to the degree to which a GFD was assumed to improve the health-related quality of life of people with subclinical CD. However, the GDG felt confident that such benefits are observed in practice, so the group was happy to recommend case- finding, on the expectation that the true-positive identification of people with subclinical CD would lead to this kind of health gain. Although it is theoretically possible that different serological strategies might be optimal in different populations (according to expected prevalence of CD and other population-specific characteristics), little evidence was found to suggest that anything other than the strategies recommended in section 5.2 should be preferred. Therefore, it was not necessary to make separate recommendations about the tests that should be used in a case-finding context; it was sufficient to recommend that serological testing should be offered, and recommendations elsewhere in the guideline would be followed. One potential exception to this rule was that, in sensitivity analysis for child first-degree relatives of people with coeliac disease, some results suggested that it could theoretically be worth adding routine genotyping (HLA DQ2/DQ8 testing) to the diagnostic strategy. However, the GDG pointed out that, in practice, this would be of very
