Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


suggested that it could theoretically be worth adding routine genotyping (HLA DQ2/DQ8 testing) to the diagnostic strategy. However, the GDG pointed out that, in practice, this would be of very limited value: if one family member is HLA DQ2/DQ8 positive (as the index case almost certainly would be), the chances of the rest of that family being HLA DQ2/DQ8 positive is very high. Therefore, the utility of doing that test in further family members is negligible. This shows that there are some areas in which population-specific diagnostic accuracy data might improve the accuracy of results. The original health economic model did not cover children with Down’s syndrome, as this population was not among the GDG's top priorities for modelling. However, the GDG was presented with details of a published cost–utility analysis , which found that screening was not cost effective in this population. This analysis was confined to a single outcome of preventing lymphoma and the original health economic analysis conducted in other populations had shown that relatively little of the benefit of true-positive identification of CD could be ascribed to this outcome. Therefore, it was unsurprising that Swigonski et al. found insufficient benefit to justify the costs of case- finding. The GDG inferred that a fuller analysis, accounting for a wider range of benefits, would be likely to reach a different conclusion. However, the group did not feel that it had enough evidence to support an 'offer' recommendation, so concluded that case-finding should be considered in this population. The group recognised that overall the quality of evidence available to Quality of answer this question was of a low quality. This was recognised to be a evidence product of the lack of evidence available, the retrospective nature of the majority of studies, and the bias inherent in the way study participants were selected, how prevalence estimates were generated, the lack of precision in the presented estimates, and the lack of endoscopic Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease intestinal biopsy to prove CD diagnosis in a great number of the studies available. Other Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) considerations The GDG felt that it was important that those with a diagnosis of IBS should be tested for coeliac disease, as the two conditions have very similar phenotypic manifestations, notably in terms of gastrointestinal symptoms and abdominal pain. The group discussed that children are not
