Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


be tested for coeliac disease, as the two conditions have very similar phenotypic manifestations, notably in terms of gastrointestinal symptoms and abdominal pain. The group discussed that children are not routinely diagnosed with IBS, and are more likely to be labelled with ‘recurrent abdominal pain’ or ‘abdominal migraine’. IBS diagnosis is only typically given to adults with the same symptoms. Children may also have a diagnosis of inflammatory bowel disease. A child could hypothetically present to a number of clinicians and be given a number of different diagnoses for same symptoms because of this lack of consistency in characterising ‘IBS-like’ symptoms in the paediatric population. It was also raised as common for children to be diagnosed with IBS-like symptoms rather than a diagnosis of IBS. The group further raised the notion that, technically, children should be covered by recommendations on children or adults with recurrent GI symptoms, so whether this is labelled as IBS or not in children it is essentially irrelevant to their being investigated for CD. Repeat serological testing The group thought it highly important that both patients and healthcare professionals should be aware that people with risk factors for CD who test negative initially may remain at increased risk of developing CD in the future. The GDG was aware that some researchers have recommended routine periodic testing of people whose initial serological results are negative, especially those with type 1 diabetes. The original health economic model suggested that testing people with type 1 diabetes for CD at diagnosis could probably be considered to provide reasonable value for money (see above); however, the group was aware that this conclusion was relatively finely balanced, and small adjustments to the parameters of the model would produce different results. In particular, if prevalence of CD was any lower than estimated in the model’s base case, it would not be cost effective to offer case finding. The model was not designed to examine the cost effectiveness of periodic repeat testing. However, it could be inferred that the prevalence of CD among people who initially tested negative would be lower than in the incident type 1 diabetes cohort. Therefore, it is extremely unlikely that repeat testing would achieve health gains at a cost that would be considered an effective use of NHS resources. This result would arise partially because of the costs of repeat serology itself, but more particularly because of the costs
