Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


that would be considered an effective use of NHS resources. This result would arise partially because of the costs of repeat serology itself, but more particularly because of the costs incurred and quality of life forgone by performing endoscopic biopsies in people with positive serology in a context where those people were more likely to have false-positive findings owing to lower prevalence of CD (that is, the positive predictive value of all serological tests would be lower in a retesting setting). Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease Nevertheless, the GDG were keen to emphasise that, if people with risk factors for CD who have previously been found to be serologically negative develop CD-like symptoms over time, there should be a low threshold for retesting for CD. The group were mindful of the evidence and experience (noted above) that people with subclinical CD frequently experience mild symptoms that do not lead them to seek medical advice. Therefore, the group recommended that people who initially test negative are advised to treat any future CD-like symptoms seriously, and not to hesitate to seek advice from their healthcare providers. For treating clinicians, it was emphasised that, if a person has risk factors for CD and even mild symptoms that are suggestive of CD, a historical negative serological test should not be used as a reason not to offer repeat serological testing. 4.4.7 Recommendations & research recommendations 1. Offer serological testing for coeliac disease to:  People with any of the following:  persistent unexplained abdominal or gastrointestinal symptoms  faltering growth  prolonged fatigue  unexpected weight loss  severe or persistent mouth ulcers  unexplained iron, vitamin B12 or folate deficiency  type 1 diabetes, at diagnosis  autoimmune thyroid disease, at diagnosis  irritable bowel syndrome (in adults)  first-degree relatives of people with coeliac disease. 2. Consider serological testing for coeliac disease in people with any of the following:  metabolic bone disorder (reduced bone mineral density or osteomalacia)  unexplained neurological symptoms (particularly peripheral neuropathy or ataxia)  unexplained subfertility or recurrent miscarriage  persistently raised liver enzymes with unknown cause  dental enamel defects  Down’s syndrome  Turner syndrome. 3. Advise people who have tested negative for coeliac disease, particularly first- degree relatives and people with type 1 diabetes, that:  coeliac disease may present with a wide range of
