Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


Advise people who have tested negative for coeliac disease, particularly first- degree relatives and people with type 1 diabetes, that:  coeliac disease may present with a wide range of symptoms and  they should consult their healthcare professional if any of the symptoms listed in recommendations 1 or 2 arise or persist. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for the recognition of coeliac disease Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease 5 Evidence for testing for coeliac disease 5.1 Accuracy of serological testing What is the sensitivity and specificity of the serological tests for coeliac disease? Are the sensitivity and specificity of results different in any specified subgroups? A number of different serological tests exist to test for coeliac disease. Each of these serological tests works by testing for the presence of a positive antigenic response of a given antibody against either IgA or IgG. Each of these serological tests has different sensitivity and specificity to detect coeliac disease. Determining the optimal serological test will ensure a balance of high sensitivity, whereby all those with the disease are accurately diagnosed, 5.1.2 Methods The aim of this review question was to determine the sensitivity and specificity of the different serological tests available in the diagnosis of coeliac disease. This is an update of the chapter on ‘serological tests in the diagnostic process for coeliac disease’ in the 2009 guideline for coeliac disease (CG86). This updated review incorporates studies that were included in the previous guideline together with newly-published evidence. The second component of this chapter focuses on whether specificity and sensitivity of serological test results is altered in any specified subgroups. Selective IgA deficiency is 10 to 15 times more common in patients with coeliac disease than in healthy subjects (Chow et al., 2012). Therefore, there is a risk of false negative serological results if IgA-dependent assays are used to assess the presence of CD. It has been reported that there has been inadequate evaluation of IgA deficiency while testing for coeliac disease, which has resulted in the underdiagnoses of both coeliac disease and IgA deficiency . Therefore, this guideline considered the use of IgA-deficiency testing and IgG-based serological testing in the diagnostic process for coeliac disease. Studies were only included if they met the following criteria: the population examined was children or adults suspected of having coeliac disease; all participants received
