Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


diagnostic process for coeliac disease. Studies were only included if they met the following criteria: the population examined was children or adults suspected of having coeliac disease; all participants received both serological testing and an intestinal biopsy. The serological tests considered were:  IgA tTG  IgG tTG  IgA EMA  IgG EMA  IgA DGP  IgG DGP  HLA DQ2/DQ8 genotyping The comparator test was an endoscopic intestinal biopsy (reference standard in practice) and outcomes of interest were sensitivity and specificity of the different serological tests to detect coeliac disease. The GDG expressed the need for a uniform histological reference standard to be used when examining sensitivity and specificity of the serological tests. Marsh grade 3 was identified as the optimal histological reference standard, and thus only studies which used this histological criterion to diagnose coeliac disease were considered. Furthermore, the GDG expressed that Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease only studies within Europe should be considered. This is due to the high prevalence of non- coeliac enteropathies in countries outside of Europe, particularly India, Africa, and Israel, which is often difficult to discriminate from true coeliac disease. Within the studies, different diagnostic kits and different cut-off values were used for the analysisd . Further differences between studies were differing or incompletely reported biopsy strategies, possible variability between laboratories or operators, and studies taking place in several different countries. The included studies were cohort studies, which provided the best quality evidence within a modified GRADE framework. For full details of the review protocol please see Appendix C. Included studies A systematic search was conducted (see Appendix C) which identified 2527 references. This search was restricted to studies published from 2008 onwards to avoid duplicates of studies considered in the previous coeliac disease guideline (CG86).The references were screened on their titles and abstracts and full papers of 76 references were obtained and reviewed against the inclusion and exclusion criteria in the review protocol (see Appendix C). Overall, 70 studies were excluded as they did not meet the eligibility criteria such as inappropriate study design (case-series), not a primary study (descriptive narrative, opinion, etc.), examined the prevalence of coeliac disease in certain populations, studies in which the study population was not suspected of coeliac disease (but may have had an increased risk for developing coeliac disease, such as a commonly comorbid condition,
