Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


populations, studies in which the study population was not suspected of coeliac disease (but may have had an increased risk for developing coeliac disease, such as a commonly comorbid condition, or a family history of coeliac disease), and studies which did not use Marsh grade 3 for the histological diagnosis of coeliac disease. A detailed list of excluded studies and reasons for their exclusion is provided in Appendix C. The 43 studies included studies in the previous coeliac disease guideline (CG86) were reviewed against the current protocol. Of these, 42 were excluded based on data extracted in the CG86 evidence tables as they did not meet eligibility criteria. Primary reasons for exclusion included inappropriate index tests (IgA AGA and IgG AGAe ), populations that were not suspected of coeliac disease, and studies in which 100% of the participants did not receive both serological testing and an intestinal biopsy. The search for this question was also designed to identify studies in which there was evidence that the serological tests for coeliac disease performed in any way differently from the general population. No studies of interest were found in this area. 5.1.3 Evidence review The 6 remaining published papers did meet the stated eligibility criteria and were included. Data was extracted into detailed evidence tables (see Appendix D) and are summarised below). A single study included in the previous coeliac disease guideline did meet eligibility criteria for the current guideline and was included. Data is available in detailed evidence tables derived from the previous coeliac disease guideline (see Appendix D) and are summarised below. The overall quality of the evidence from these 7 published papers ranged from very low to high, with the majority of evidence to be of moderate quality. d : If studies used different cut-off levels, those used were that of the manufacturer’s recommended cut-off levels e IgA AGA and IgG AGA were assessed in the previous coeliac disease CG86 guideline. Due to low sensitivity and specificity outcome for these tests, they were not recommended for the diagnosis of coeliac disease. On this basis, IgA AGA and IgG AGA were excluded from the present guideline. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease 5.1.3.1 Evidence for the sensitivity and specificity of IgA tTG in the detection of coeliac disease in adults, children, and mixed age populations Two studies (Mubarak et al., 2011; Panetta et
