Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


deficient patients were excluded from the outset in this study. 5.1.3.3 Evidence for the sensitivity and specificity of IgA DGP in the detection of coeliac disease One study of 212 children with suspected coeliac disease conducted IgA DGP serological testing and endoscopic intestinal biopsy to determine the presence of coeliac disease in this population. One study of 144 adults with suspected coeliac disease (mean age 25 years) conducted IgA DGP serological testing and endoscopic intestinal biopsy to determine the presence of coeliac disease in this population. Two patients with IgA deficiency were excluded from this analysis. One study (Burgin Wolff et al., 2013) of 268 children and adults (median age 29 years) with suspected coeliac disease conducted IgA DGP serological testing and endoscopic intestinal biopsy to determine the presence of coeliac disease in this population. IgA deficient patients were excluded from the outset in this study 5.1.3.4 Evidence for the sensitivity and specificity of IgG DGP in the detection of coeliac disease One study of 212 children with suspected coeliac disease conducted IgG DGP serological testing and endoscopic intestinal biopsy to determine the presence of coeliac disease in this population. One study of 144 adults with suspected coeliac disease (mean age 25 years) conducted IgG DGP serological testing and endoscopic intestinal biopsy to determine the presence of coeliac disease in this population. One study Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease (Burgin Wolff et al., 2013) of 268 children and adults (median age 29 years) with suspected coeliac disease conducted IgG DGP serological testing and endoscopic intestinal biopsy to determine the presence of coeliac disease in this population. 5.1.3.5 Evidence for the sensitivity and specificity of HLA DQ2/DQ8 genotyping in the detection of coeliac disease One study of 170 children suspected of coeliac disease (median age 18 months) conducted HLA DQ2/DQ8 genotyping and endoscopic intestinal biopsy to determine the association between these coeliac-associated haplotypes and the presence of coeliac disease in this population. A total of 8 children were excluded from the analyses: 2 children were already consuming a GFD; one child had previously been on a gluten-free diet (GFD) and reintroduced gluten only eight weeks earlier; two children had selective IgA deficiency; three children had intestinal biopsies which could not be classified because of bad orientation of the sample. 5.1.3.6 Evidence for the sensitivity and specificity of serological testing in any specified subgroups
