Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


together. Therefore, the associated recommendations will be presented for the two components of this question at the end of this chapter. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease 5.2 Order and sequencing of serological tests Which serological test is the most appropriate to diagnose coeliac disease? Depending on test results, should more than one test be used, and if so, what should be the sequence of testing? Following which sequence of tests and test results is it appropriate to refer onwards for endoscopic intestinal biopsy for confirmatory diagnosis? In section 5.1 the sensitivity and specificity of different serological tests to detect coeliac disease was explored. The purpose of this section is to examine whether a combination of those serological tests investigated in section 5.1 can achieve a greater sensitivity and specificity to detect coeliac disease than when those tests are used in isolation. 5.2.2 Methods The aim of this review question was to determine when serological test results would indicate a diagnosis of coeliac disease without the need for intestinal biopsy. The second part of this question was designed to determine when serological tests results would indicate a referral for endoscopic intestinal biopsy for confirmatory diagnosis is appropriate. This is an update of the chapter on ‘serological tests in the diagnostic process for coeliac disease’ in the 2009 guideline for coeliac disease (CG86). This updated review incorporates studies that were included in the previous guideline together with newly-published evidence. Combinations (including parallel or sequential combinations) of serological and IgA deficiency testing were compared to intestinal biopsy, or other combinations of tests, or test algorithms. Studies were only included if they met the following criteria: the population examined was children or adults suspected of having coeliac disease; all participants received both serological testing and an intestinal biopsy.  The serological tests considered (in any combination) were: o IgA tTG o IgG tTG o IgA EMA o IgA DGP o IgG DGP o HLA DQ2/DQ8 o Total IgA (for IgA deficiency) The outcomes of interest were sensitivity and specificity of the different combinations of serological tests to detect coeliac disease. The GDG also expressed the need for a uniform histological reference standard to be used when examining sensitivity and specificity of the serological tests. Marsh grade 3 was identified as the optimal histological reference standard, and thus only studies which used this criterion to diagnose coeliac
