Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


examining sensitivity and specificity of the serological tests. Marsh grade 3 was identified as the optimal histological reference standard, and thus only studies which used this criterion to diagnose coeliac disease were considered. Furthermore, the GDG expressed that only studies within Europe should be considered. This is due to the high prevalence of non-coeliac enteropathies in countries outside of Europe, particularly India, African and Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease Middle-Eastern countries, which is often difficult to discriminate from true coeliac disease and may skew sensitivity and specificity estimates of serological tests in these populations. Within the studies, different kits and different cut-off values were used for the analysisf . Further differences between studies were different or incompletely reported biopsy strategies, possible variability between laboratories or operators, and studies taking place in several different countries. The included studies were cohort studies and case-control studies, which provided the best quality evidence. For full details of the review protocol please see Appendix C. Included studies A single systematic search was conducted (see Appendix C) for both review question three and review question four together, which identified 2527 references. This search was restricted to studies published from 2008 onwards to avoid duplicates of studies considered in the previous coeliac disease guideline (CG86).The references were screened on their titles and abstracts and full papers of 17 references were obtained and reviewed against the inclusion and exclusion criteria in the review protocol (see Appendix C). Twelve studies were excluded as they did not meet the eligibility criteria such as inappropriate study design (case-series), not a primary study (descriptive narrative, opinion, etc.), examined the prevalence of coeliac disease in certain populations, or studies in which the study population was not suspected of coeliac disease (but may have had an increased risk for developing coeliac disease, such as a commonly comorbid condition, or a family history of coeliac disease). A detailed list of excluded studies and reasons for their exclusion is provided in Appendix F. The 5 remaining published papers did meet eligibility criteria and were included. Data was extracted into detailed evidence tables (see Appendix D) and are summarised below). The 6 studies included in the previous coeliac disease guideline (CG86) were reviewed against the current protocol. Of these, 5 were excluded as they did not meet eligibility criteria. Primary reasons for exclusion included inappropriate index tests (IgA AGA
