Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


guideline (CG86) were reviewed against the current protocol. Of these, 5 were excluded as they did not meet eligibility criteria. Primary reasons for exclusion included inappropriate index tests (IgA AGA and IgG AGA),g populations that were not suspected of coeliac disease, and studies in which 100% of the participants did not receive both serological testing and an intestinal biopsy. The 1 remaining published paper included in the previous coeliac disease guideline did meet eligibility criteria for the current guideline and was included. Data is available in detailed evidence tables derived from the previous coeliac disease guideline (CG86) and are summarised below. The overall quality of the evidence from these 6 published papers ranged from low to high, with the majority of evidence to be of moderate quality. Evidence was downgraded due to methodological issues such as unclear recruitment strategy, inconsistency between studies, or imprecision. Sensitivity and specificity values presented here for one of the included studies (Burgin-Wolff et al., 2013) were calculated from raw data values. These differ from the sensitivity and specificity results presented in the paper. The paper presents ‘non-classified’ data, which relates to the number of participants per test combination that were unable to be classified due to inconsistency between two or more tests (i.e. positive result on one test and negative result in another test(s)). This ‘non-classifiable’ data was incorporated into the analyses f If studies used different cut-off levels, the used were that of the manufacturer’s recommended cut-off levels. g IgA AGA and IgG AGA were assessed in the previous coeliac disease CG86 guideline. Due to low sensitivity and specificity outcome for these tests, they were not recommended for the diagnosis of coeliac disease. On this basis, IgA AGA and IgG AGA were excluded from the present guideline. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease presented here as false negative data, as it is assumed that the ‘non-classified’ data was classed as negative. 5.2.3 Evidence review 5.2.3.1 Sensitivity and specificity of combination IgA tTG + IgG DGP testing One study (Burgin Wolff et al., 2013) of 268 children and adults (median age 29 years) with suspected coeliac disease conducted IgA tTG + IgG DGP combination serological testing and endoscopic intestinal biopsy to determine the presence of coeliac disease in this population. IgA deficient patients were excluded from the outset in this study. 5.2.3.2 Sensitivity and specificity of combination IgA
