Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


intestinal biopsy to determine the presence of coeliac disease in this population. IgA deficient patients were excluded from the outset in this study. 5.2.3.2 Sensitivity and specificity of combination IgA EMA + IgG DGP testing One study (Burgin Wolff et al., 2013) of 268 children and adults (median age 29 years) with suspected coeliac disease conducted IgA EMA + IgG DGP combination serological testing and endoscopic intestinal biopsy to determine the presence of coeliac disease in this population. IgA deficient patients were excluded from the outset in this study. 5.2.3.3 Evidence for the sensitivity and specificity of combination IgA tTG + IgG DGP + IgA DGP testing One study (Burgin Wolff et al., 2013) of 268 children and adults (median age 29 years) with suspected coeliac disease conducted IgA tTG + IgG DGP + IgA DGP combination serological testing and endoscopic intestinal biopsy to determine the presence of coeliac disease in this population. IgA deficient patients were excluded from the outset in this study. 5.2.3.4 Evidence for the sensitivity and specificity of combination IgA EMA + IgG DGP + IgA DGP testing One study (Burgin Wolff et al., 2013) of 268 children and adults (median age 29 years) with suspected coeliac disease conducted IgA EMA + IgG DGP + IgA DGP combination serological testing and endoscopic intestinal biopsy to determine the presence of coeliac disease in this population. IgA deficient patients were excluded from the outset in this study. 5.2.3.5 Evidence for the sensitivity and specificity of combination IgA EMA + IgA tTG + IgG DGP testing One study (Burgin Wolff et al., 2013) of 268 children and adults (median age 29 years) with suspected coeliac disease conducted IgA tTG + IgA EMA + IgG DGP combination serological testing and endoscopic intestinal biopsy to determine the presence of coeliac disease in this population. IgA deficient patients were excluded from the outset in this study. 5.2.3.6 Evidence for the sensitivity and specificity of combination IgA tTG + IgA EMA + IgA DGP + IgG DGP testing One study (Burgin Wolff et al., 2013) of 268 children and adults (median age 29 years) with suspected coeliac disease conducted IgA tTG + IgA EMA + IgG DGP + IgA DGP combination serological testing and endoscopic intestinal biopsy to determine the presence of coeliac disease in this population. IgA deficient patients were excluded from the outset in this study. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015
