Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


and endoscopic intestinal biopsy to determine the presence of coeliac disease in this population. IgA deficient patients were excluded from the outset in this study. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease 5.2.3.7 Evidence for the sensitivity and specificity of combination IgA tTG + IgA EMA + HLA DQ2/DQ8 One study of 170 children suspected of coeliac disease (median age 18 months) conducted HLA DQ2/DQ8 genotyping with IgA tTG + IgA EMA serological testing and endoscopic intestinal biopsy to determine the association between these coeliac-associated haplotypes, serology, and the presence of coeliac disease in this population. A total of 8 children were excluded from the analyses: 2 children were already consuming a gluten-free diet (GFD); 1 child had previously been on a GFD and reintroduced gluten only 8 weeks earlier; 2 children had selective IgA deficiency; 3 children had intestinal biopsies which could not be classified because of bad orientation of the sample. 5.2.3.8 Evidence for the sensitivity and specificity of combination IgA + IgG h-tTG/DGP One study of 212 children with suspected coeliac disease conducted serological testing using a combination test with a human recombinant tissue substrate of IgA + IgG tTG/DGP and endoscopic intestinal biopsy to determine the presence of coeliac disease in this population. One case-control study of 201 adults serologically tested for coeliac disease was also examined. This study population was comprised 41 recently diagnosed people with coeliac disease; 145 ‘disease-controls’ with various other conditions, including autoimmune hepatopathies; viral hepatitis, and other gastrointestinal diseases; and 24 healthy blood donors. All participants underwent serological testing using a combination test with a human recombinant tissue substrate of IgA + IgG tTG/DGP and endoscopic intestinal biopsy to diagnose or exclude the presence of coeliac disease. 5.2.3.9 Evidence for the sensitivity and specificity of the test algorithm If IgA tTG is positive, and then IgA EMA is positive One study of 2000 adult participants (mean age 55.8 years) with suspected coeliac disease examined a 2-step serological screening strategy in which participants were screened first with IgA tTG and then with IgA EMA if the IgA tTG test was positive. Participants were considered serologically positive for coeliac disease if both serological tests were positive. All patients also underwent an endoscopic intestinal biopsy to confirm the diagnosis of coeliac disease. Fourteen participants were excluded from the analyses due to IgA deficiency. 5.2.3.10 Evidence for the sensitivity
