Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


patients also underwent an endoscopic intestinal biopsy to confirm the diagnosis of coeliac disease. Fourteen participants were excluded from the analyses due to IgA deficiency. 5.2.3.10 Evidence for the sensitivity and specificity of the test algorithm If IgA tTG is positive or equivocal, and then IgA EMA is positive One study of 756 adult participants (mean age unknown) with suspected coeliac disease examined a 2-step serological screening strategy in which participants were screened first with IgA tTG and then with IgA EMA if the IgA tTG test was positive or equivocal, according to the strategy recommended by NICE in the coeliac disease guideline CG86. Participants were considered serologically positive for coeliac disease if both serological tests were positive. All participants also underwent an endoscopic intestinal biopsy to confirm the diagnosis of coeliac disease. Fourteen participants were excluded from the analyses due to IgA deficiency. 5.2.3.11 Evidence for the sensitivity and specificity of the test algorithm If both IgA tTG is positive and IgA EMA is positive Two studies (Hopper et al., 2008; Swallow et al., 2012) of 2756 adult participants (mean age 55.8 years) with suspected coeliac disease examined a 2-step serological screening strategy in which participants were screened with both IgA tTG and IgA EMA. Participants were considered serologically positive for coeliac disease if both serological tests were positive. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease All participants also underwent an endoscopic intestinal biopsy to confirm the diagnosis of coeliac disease. Fourteen participants were excluded from the analysis due to IgA deficiency. 5.2.3.12 Evidence for the sensitivity and specificity of the 2-step test algorithm If either IgA tTG is positive, or IgA EMA is positive One study of 2000 adult participants (mean age 55.8 years) with suspected coeliac disease examined a 2-step serological screening strategy in which participants were screened first with IgA tTG and then with IgA EMA. Participants were considered serologically positive for coeliac disease if either or both serological tests were positive. All participants also underwent an endoscopic intestinal biopsy to confirm the diagnosis of coeliac disease. Fourteen participants were excluded from the analyses due to IgA deficiency. 5.2.4 Health economic evidence 5.2.4.1 Systematic review of published cost–utility analyses An economic evaluations filter was applied to the search protocol for this research question (an update of a review question considered within the 2009 NICE coeliac disease guideline CG86) with the
