Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


effective testing strategy is to consider people serologically positive if they are positive on either IgA tTG or IgA EMA. However, the incremental benefit of this strategy comes at a very high cost (base-case ICER in excess of £170,000 per QALY), and much better value for money is achieved by a strategy that tests IgA tTG in all people and reserves IgA EMA to classify cases in which IgA tTG results are weakly positive. An original, directly applicable cost–utility analysis with minor limitations suggested that, in children, the most effective testing strategy is a combination of IgA tTG, IgA EMA and HLA DQ2/DQ8. However, the incremental benefit of this strategy comes at additional cost, with an ICER of approximately £34,000 per QALY. Of the modelled options, the most cost effective – when QALYs are assumed to be worth £20,000 – was a combination of IgG DGP and IgA tTG. No evidence was available to analyse the combination of IgA tTG and IgA EMA without additional tests in children. 5.2.6 Evidence to recommendations The GDG discussed and agreed that a single histological standard for the Relative value diagnosis of coeliac disease was needed in order to ensure consistency of different between studies. The ESPGHAN (European Society for Paediatric outcomes Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition) criterion relies in part on serological results to inform diagnosis; however, the GDG decided that these criteria would be inappropriate as a reference standard to investigate the accuracy of serological tests in the diagnosis of coeliac disease. The GDG agreed that Marsh criteria grade 3 was the most appropriate reference standard for the histological diagnosis of coeliac disease and that only studies using these criteria should be considered as part of the evidence review. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease The GDG further raised the necessity of providing guidance on the operationalisation of ‘equivocal’ when examining the output of tTG results in order to optimize diagnostic accuracy. There is currently no guidance in interpreting weakly positive (or negative) results, and what defines these weak or equivocal ranges. The group was concerned that it was common for laboratories to assess IgA deficiency when testing for IgA tTG, essentially using IgA tTG as a surrogate marker for total IgA. The benefits of conducting total IgA testing were highlighted as important, because critical immunodeficiency’s such as CVID and myeloma can be picked up, as
