Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


a surrogate marker for total IgA. The benefits of conducting total IgA testing were highlighted as important, because critical immunodeficiency’s such as CVID and myeloma can be picked up, as well as those with IgA deficiency, which in itself is relatively common (1/500), and highly important to a person’s immunological health and wellbeing. Trade-off Inter-test variability and internal validity of serological testing between benefits and The GDG discussed the number of different testing kits that are available for harms each antibody, in particular the transglutaminase ELISA kits and the wide variability in the sensitivity and specificity to diagnose coeliac disease between each of these different kits. The GDG agreed that there is a strong need for each laboratory to internally validate their serological testing assays in order to ensure optimal diagnostic utility. The GDG expressed concern that many laboratories may be using poor testing kits, and that internal validity of testing kits in each laboratory is not being examined, and further, that there is no evidence of quality assurance in labs to make sure that optimal internal validity is being achieved. The GDG further discussed the continual improvement in these ELISA testing kits for the detection of tTG, and expressed that the emergence of new immunofluorescence techniques for the detection of tTG look particularly promising. The GDG also noted that quality assurance procedures are now being replaced by ISO15189 ( which may play a part in increasing the reliability of serological testing by requiring laboratory scientists to examine and monitor internal validity of testing procedures. Equivocal range in tTG serological results The group recognised that each laboratory will have their own definitions of how to define equivocal tTG results, depending on the specific anti-tTG assay used. GDG members believed that, in most laboratories, equivocal can be interpreted as weakly positive. In this circumstance, the majority of laboratories will then conduct an EMA as a confirmatory test (as indicated in the current NEQAS report, 2014). The GDG expressed the purpose of the secondary EMA to be to make sure that the tTG was performed correctly in the first place, as it is known that one can conduct testing using the same ELISA on the same sample 3 separate times, and get slightly different result every time (see Egner et al., 2011). Laboratories tend to do anti-tTG because it is a test which is performed in large numbers and it is both
