Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


slightly different result every time (see Egner et al., 2011). Laboratories tend to do anti-tTG because it is a test which is performed in large numbers and it is both comparatively easy to automate and can be quantified. It is often done in biochemistry labs, who have much experience in automating quantifiable assays, but little experience in more subjective immunological assays such as EMA immunofluorescence. It is also cheaper Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease and more amenable for most laboratories to do IgA tTG. Actually anti-EMA testing is not significantly more expensive than tTG testing; however the procedure requires specialist immunological training. The problem was raised that theoretically ‘equivocal’ could be interpreted as slightly below the positive titre threshold, and therefore ‘weakly negative’. The group agreed that those who were weakly negative were highly unlikely to have CD whilst those with unambiguously positive tTG were very likely to have CD, and it is those who are ‘weakly positive’ that they are unsure about and would be most important to have a secondary serological screen of EMA conducted. The group further discussed the difficulty in determining how to define weakly positive, as each different ELISA uses different manufacturer-recommended cut-off points. It was noted that the ESPGHAN criteria in children uses 10 x the upper limit of normal as strongly positive, and that a similar algorithm could be used to define weakly positive. However ‘normal’ is still an ambiguous term which will differ between laboratories. Testing for total IgA The group discussed that it was very common for laboratories to examine IgA levels when testing for IgA tTG, essentially using IgA tTG as a surrogate marker for IgA deficiency. This was raised as poor practice, and highly problematic, because total IgA levels are measured using an assay that is not designed or validated for measuring these levels (the ELISA is designed to measure tTG, not total IgA). The benefits of conducting total IgA testing were highlighted as highly important, primarily to maximise diagnostic accuracy, but also because critical immunodeficiency’s such as common variable immunodeficiency can be picked up, as well as IgA deficiency, which in itself is relatively common in people with coeliac disease The costs of conducting a separate test for total IgA were discussed and agreed to be negligible (when the test is undertaken as part of multiple tests on the same
