Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


The costs of conducting a separate test for total IgA were discussed and agreed to be negligible (when the test is undertaken as part of multiple tests on the same sample, as would be the case here), further supporting the notion that this test should be carried out separately to IgA tTG in all circumstances. The group also raised the accreditation process that will be introduced under ISO15189, whereby each individual assay must undergo an accreditation process to prove optimal practice and replicable results. Under this accreditation process, it is highly likely that IgA tTG assays will only be accredited to test for IgA tTG. If not have an accredited means of testing for total IgA, which would be a potential violation of good clinical practice standards Need for biopsy (in adults) The group recognised that one component of this review was to determine under which circumstances serology would be accurate enough to diagnose CD, and therefore not require a biopsy to make a diagnosis. The group felt strongly that a biopsy should always be used to confirm a diagnosis for the following reasons:  Serology is imperfect and there is great variation in the assays used and the inter-test reliability within each laboratory across the country.  Likelihood of a false-positive diagnosis may be increased. This may lead to a person commencing a strict lifelong gluten-free diet without having the disorder. Therefore it is the responsibility of the clinician to confirm the diagnosis beyond reasonable doubt. Symptoms can be those of IBS and could respond to gluten withdrawal without having coeliac disease – so a Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease combination of serology and symptom relief on gluten withdrawal is not good enough  If a patient starts a gluten-free diet without having a biopsy, the diagnosis may subsequently be very difficult to confirm if there is any doubt at a later stage.  An endoscopic intestinal biopsy allows clinicians to simultaneously check for and exclude comorbid or alternative diagnoses, including very serious conditions such as enteropathy-associated lymphoma and other kinds of intestinal cancers.  Ongoing symptoms will require re-biopsy. Therefore, if no index biopsy was taken it is impossible to assess whether histological recovery has taken place. The group recognised that an endoscopic intestinal biopsy is not always available as an option in paediatric populations as it can be highly
