Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


assess whether histological recovery has taken place. The group recognised that an endoscopic intestinal biopsy is not always available as an option in paediatric populations as it can be highly distressing for both the children and their parents and also requires additional care and costs due to the need for general anaesthetic. Deamidated gliadin peptides (DGP) The GDG discussed and agreed that the evidence for deamidated gliadin peptides (DGP) looks promising; however, evidence for these antibodies is still emerging and needs to be strengthened by more studies before any recommendations can be made as to the diagnostic utilities for these. Combination testing The GDG discussed combination testing for achieving optimal sensitivity and specificity of diagnosis. It was agreed that there is a lack of evidence for the utility of second-line testing after initial serology is negative in people strongly suspected of coeliac disease. HLA DQ2.5 DQ2.2 and DQ8 genotyping The GDG discussed HLA DQ2/DQ8 genotyping and the variability between different centres in terms of how results are reported and fed back to clinicians. In particular, the GDG expressed a need for the standardisation of which HLA DQ2/DQ8 haplotypes were examined. The GDG further expressed that many less common HLA haplotypes exist, however the most common, accounting for around 99% of HLA genotypes relevant to coeliac disease, are HLA DQ2.5, DQ2.2, and DQ8. The GDG wished to specifically refer to these HLA variants when recommending HLA genotyping. Economic strategy – in terms of QALYs accrued – was found to be strongly correlated considerations with the strategy’s sensitivity. This is because false-negative diagnoses are associated with reduced QALYs (as a function of both persistent coeliac symptoms and increased likelihood of long-term complications, some of which may impact on life expectancy). Therefore, strategies with fewest false- negative diagnoses are those that accrue most QALYs. Conversely, the total costs of each strategy are strongly correlated with their specificity. This is predominantly because false-positive serological diagnoses incur additional costs due to unnecessary endoscopic biopsies that would be avoided with a more specific approach. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease Weighing these factors against each other leads to somewhat different conclusions in adults and children. In adults, greatest value for money (maximal net monetary benefit at £20,000 per QALY) tends to be achieved by strategies that are most sensitive (that is, those that minimise false-negative diagnoses and, therefore, maximise
