Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


for money (maximal net monetary benefit at £20,000 per QALY) tends to be achieved by strategies that are most sensitive (that is, those that minimise false-negative diagnoses and, therefore, maximise QALYs). In children, the approaches that demonstrate greatest value are those that have higher specificity (that is, those with fewest false-positive diagnoses that, therefore, minimise costs). The reason for this difference is that endoscopic biopsies are much more expensive in the paediatric population, as they are invariably performed under general anaesthesia. However, the GDG also emphasised the importance of correctly identifying children with coeliac disease, and did not believe that minimising false-positive diagnoses could, alone, be the overriding objective of best practice. In adults, the most effective strategy was the most sensitive – that is, considering people serologically positive if they are positive on either IgA tTG or IgA EMA. However, the incremental benefit of this approach came at a very high cost: the base-case ICER exceeded £170,000 per QALY. However, the model suggested that almost all the benefit of this approach could be achieved at lower cost by a strategy that tests IgA tTG in all people and reserves IgA EMA to classify cases in which IgA tTG results are weakly positive. Indeed, accounting for the costs of the tests themselves and the downstream consequences of true and false diagnoses over the lifetime of the cohort, the model estimated that this approach is associated with lowest net costs of all options. The GDG concluded that it should be recommended as the preferred approach. Although sensitivity was the main determinant of value in the adult population, small differences in sensitivity between strategies could be outweighed by larger differences in specificity. This was the case with the recommended approach: although there were 2 strategies in the model that had higher sensitivity than IgA tTG with IgA EMA to determine weakly positive cases, the benefits associated with those strategies' superior true-positive rates were smaller than the harms and costs associated with their inferior false-positive rates (lower specificities). The GDG noted that current provision of serological testing is variable, with different laboratories relying on different assays, either singly or in combination. This means that, in order to recommend the routine use of any particular strategy (especially one involving more than 1 test); it would be necessary to take account of the implications for standardising practice. In particular, the additional costs associated with the
