Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


particular strategy (especially one involving more than 1 test); it would be necessary to take account of the implications for standardising practice. In particular, the additional costs associated with the new equipment required by some laboratories should be accounted for. Therefore, in addition to the unit cost of each test, the original model included an approximate estimate of additional capital costs that would be incurred, by some laboratories, in expanding their provision to enable them to undertake those tests. Data from a national audit of current provision (NEQAS) were used to estimate the proportion of laboratories for which such additional investment would be necessary. These additional costs had no impact on base-case findings: the strategy using IgA tTG as a first-line test with IgA EMA to discriminate in cases of weak tTG positivity remained optimal. Further exploration of this parameter suggested that the total costs of increasing capacity would have to increase the unit cost of every tTG test undertaken in England and Wales by over £4 per test before it would be preferable to rely on a single-test strategy. This figure was very substantially higher than the base-case estimate of 9p per test; Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease therefore, the GDG considered that any capital costs required would be clearly justified. In children, the most effective strategy was one that combined serological assays for IgA tTG and IgA EMA and HLA DQ2/DQ8 genotyping, an approach that had been shown to benefit from very high sensitivity and specificity in the relatively expensive test (over £70 each, some 5–8 times more expensive than any of the serological assays), its routine use is associated with significant costs, with the consequence that the 3-test strategy was associated with a relatively high ICER, around £34,000 per QALY gained compared with the next-cheapest non-dominated option. The GDG advised that, in addition to its relative expense, HLA DQ2/DQ8 genotyping is subject to practical difficulties in results. The GDG noted that many of the strategies that appear attractive in children, from a cost effectiveness point of view, are combination approaches that include one or more DGP assay. The group was aware that all evidence for these tests in children came from a single study (Burgin Wolff et al., 2013). While these results appeared promising, especially as regards the high specificity of the strategies, the group felt that further research
