Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


came from a single study (Burgin Wolff et al., 2013). While these results appeared promising, especially as regards the high specificity of the strategies, the group felt that further research would be necessary before such approaches could be universally recommended. Therefore, the GDG chose to make a research recommendation for further research into the accuracy of DGP assays, particularly in younger children. If DGP-containing strategies are excluded from the paediatric decision-space, IgA tTG is the least expensive strategy in the model. It is also estimated to be more effective than IgA EMA alone (that is, it dominates it). Under this circumstance, the model predicts that the 3-test combination of IgA tTG, IgA EMA and HLA DQ2/DQ8 would become the optimal approach, generating more QALYs than any of the individual tests alone, with an ICER of approximately £6000 per QALY compared with IgA tTG as a single test. However, the GDG reiterated that there are significant practical barriers to the adoption of routine HLA DQ2/DQ8 genotyping in the primary care settings in which most initial testing would be undertaken. In theory, one first-line testing strategy that might be considered in children would be to combine IgA tTG and IgA EMA assays (in a serial algorithm – as in the recommended approach for adults – or in parallel). However, there was no evidence on the accuracy of any strategies combining these tests in children. Moreover, the GDG felt that positive results on any single assay warranted consideration by a specialist in paediatric gastroenterology. Therefore, the GDG chose to split their recommendation into 2 parts, with first- line testing comprising IgA tTG assay (which should be available and familiar (which might include IgA EMA testing and/or HLA DQ2/DQ8 genotyping as well as consideration for endoscopic biopsy). By doing this, the GDG believed that costs associated with genetic testing would be minimised – as specialists would be able to use their experience in ordering the test, rather than taking the more indiscriminate approach that a routine testing strategy implies. In this way, the group inferred that the effectiveness of the recommended strategy would be similar to that achieved under routine 3-step testing, and the costs would be reduced. A further exploratory analysis using the original health economic model Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease attempted to simulate the benefits, harms and costs of a diagnostic algorithm for
