Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


original health economic model Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease attempted to simulate the benefits, harms and costs of a diagnostic algorithm for children that enables a diagnosis of coeliac disease to be made without the need for confirmatory biopsy (as proposed by ESPGHAN). This analysis was more speculative than other simulated strategies, as it was not based on direct evidence of the diagnostic accuracy of the algorithm; instead, it combined evidence on various tests used in isolation and assumed independence between them. The model suggested that this approach is extendedly dominated by some sequences with routine biopsy that had been simulated. However, results were broadly comparable, in terms of costs and effects, to some of the better-value approaches. The GDG was aware that primary evidence on the accuracy of the ESPGHAN algorithm is due to be published in 2015, and concluded that any explicit recommendation endorsing or rejecting the approach should await the availability of this evidence. It should be noted that the original health economic analysis assumed that everyone who is serologically positive undergoes confirmatory biopsy and that biopsy is 100% accurate. Therefore, there is no such thing as a long-term false-positive diagnosis in the model: biopsy immediately corrects the false- positive serology, and the only disbenefits incurred are the costs and disutility associated with an unnecessary endoscopy. The GDG discussed and agreed that the evidence ranged from high to low Quality of quality due to methodological issues such as small sample size and potential evidence biases in retrospective studies where the intention to biopsy may be been agreed that, in general, the measures taken to ensure optimal quality results, such as the single histological reference criteria, homogeneous European sample, a single suspected coeliac disease population, and the 100% serology and an endoscopic intestinal biopsy in all participants, ensured that evidence obtained was of the best quality available. As detailed above, the GDG noted that IgA tTG alone has suboptimal Other specificity. Therefore, the group concluded that, in adults, a strategy using IgA considerations EMA to classify cases that are weakly positive on IgA tTG should be recommended. Evidence suggested that this approach has excellent specificity showed that this represented an optimal trade-off between the risks of false- positive and false-negative diagnoses (see below). However, the GDG was aware that evidence on diagnostic accuracy of serological tests can only reflect standards
