Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


optimal trade-off between the risks of false- positive and false-negative diagnoses (see below). However, the GDG was aware that evidence on diagnostic accuracy of serological tests can only reflect standards that have been achieved historically. With developments in IgA tTG assays in mind, the GDG noted that it might be possible for a laboratory to demonstrate through its internal validation processes that it is able to achieve levels of specificity from a single IgA tTG test that are comparable with the expected specificity of the 2-step strategy (that is, 99% or better). If this were the case, the GDG thought it would be reasonable for such a laboratory to rely on IgA tTG assays alone, as that approach would benefit from better sensitivity, and specificity would not be compromised. However, the group chose not to make an explicit recommendation detailing this eventuality, as it believed that the circumstances would be rare. The GDG noted that its recommendations for adults and children were closely comparable, with the only difference coming in the handling of weakly positive IgA tTG results – adults with this finding would be subject to an additional Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease would be referred straight away. The group suggested that, in practice, the paediatricians to whom children with weakly positive IgA tTG results are referred may choose to perform additional tests such as IgA EMA in the same way that the group had recommended for adults. However, in the absence of evidence of this approach in children, the group felt that a prescriptive recommendation for either primary care professionals or secondary care specialists would not be helpful. Nevertheless, it was felt that the emergence of these related recommendations from discrete evidence-bases and modelling with somewhat different assumptions provided a degree of convergent validity. 5.2.7 Recommendations & research recommendations 5.2.7.1 Recommendations 4. All serological tests should be undertaken in laboratories with clinical pathology accreditation (CPA) or ISO15189 accreditation. 5. When healthcare professionals request serological tests to investigate suspected coeliac disease in young people and adults, laboratories should  test for total immunoglobulin A (IgA) and IgA tissue transglutaminase (tTG) as the first choice  use IgA endomysial antibodies (EMA) if IgA tTG is weakly positive  consider using IgG EMA, IgG deamidated gliadin peptide (DGP) or IgG tTG if IgA is deficienta. 6. When healthcare professionals request serological tests to
