Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


IgA tTG is weakly positive  consider using IgG EMA, IgG deamidated gliadin peptide (DGP) or IgG tTG if IgA is deficienta. 6. When healthcare professionals request serological tests to investigate suspected coeliac disease in children, laboratories should:  test for total IgA and IgA tTG as the first choice  consider lgG EMA, lgG DGP or lgG tTG if IgA is deficienta. 7. When laboratories test for total IgA, a specific assay designed to measure total IgA levels should be used. 8. Refer young people and adults with positive serological test resultsh to a gastrointestinal specialist for endoscopic intestinal biopsy to confirm or exclude coeliac disease. 9. Refer children with positive serological test results to a paediatric gastroenterologist or a paediatrician with a specialist interest in gastroenterology for further investigationi for coeliac disease h In young people and adults, a positive serological result is defined as: unambiguously positive IgA tTG alone, or weakly positive IgA tTG and a positive IgA EMA test result. Note: In people who have IgA deficiency, a serologically positive result can be derived from any one of the IgG antibodies. i Further investigation may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following: an IgA EMA test to confirm serological positivity, HLA genetic testing, an endoscopic biopsy Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease 10. Refer people with negative serological test results to a gastrointestinal specialist for further assessment if coeliac disease is still clinically suspected. 11. Healthcare professionals should have a low threshold for re-testing people identified in recommendations 1 or 2 if they develop any symptoms consistent with coeliac disease. 12. Laboratories should clearly communicate the interpretation of serological test results and recommended action to healthcare professionals. 13. Do not use human leukocyte antigen (HLA) DQ2 (DQ2.2 and DQ2.5)/DQ8 testing in the initial diagnosis of coeliac disease in non-specialist settings. 14. Only consider using HLA DQ2 (DQ2.2 and DQ2.5)/DQ8 testing in the diagnosis of a biopsy, or in people who already have limited gluten ingestion and choose not to have a gluten challenge). 5.2.7.2 Research Recommendations 1. What is the sensitivity and specificity of IgA DGP and IgG DGP in the detection of coeliac disease in children aged under 2 years? Why this is important The deamidated gliadin peptide (DGP) antibodies are emerging as promising antibodies for the detection of coeliac disease. There is
