Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


disease in children aged under 2 years? Why this is important The deamidated gliadin peptide (DGP) antibodies are emerging as promising antibodies for the detection of coeliac disease. There is evidence which suggests that these antibodies may be particularly useful in children under the age of two years old . Further research into the sensitivity and specificity of the DGP antibodies in children under two years of age will strengthen this preliminary evidence and may lead to these antibodies being the first point of call in serological testing for coeliac disease in children under two years old. 2. What is the sensitivity and specificity of IgG tTG, IgG EMA and IgG DGP tests in detecting coeliac disease in people with IgA deficiency? Why this is important IgA deficiency is significantly more common in people with coeliac disease than in the general population. People with IgA deficiency will have a false negative result when tested for IgA antibody, which may lead to a missed diagnosis of coeliac disease. A missed diagnosis may result in increased use of NHS resources and the person experiencing the risks associated with undiagnosed coeliac disease. IgG antibodies are recommended for use in place of IgA antibodies in people who have IgA deficiency, but there is limited evidence to demonstrate the sensitivity and specificity of tests for IgG antibodies – that is, IgG tTG, IgG EMA and IgG DGP – in people suspected of having coeliac disease with IgA deficiency. 3. What is the sensitivity and specificity of IgA EMA and IgA DGP tests in detecting coeliac disease in people who test negative for IgA tTG? Why this is important In people with suspected coeliac disease, IgA tTG is most commonly used as the first-choice test to detect the presence of coeliac disease antibodies but some people with coeliac Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease disease will get a false negative result this happens, and if there is a strong and ongoing antibodies should also be requested. However, there is little evidence for the sensitivity and specificity of these antibodies in people who have tested negative for IgA tTG antibodies. A clearer understanding of the sensitivity and specificity of EMA and DGP antibodies in people who have tested negative for IgA tTG will allow clinicians to better interpret test results and make a more informed diagnosis. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
