Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


and DGP antibodies in people who have tested negative for IgA tTG will allow clinicians to better interpret test results and make a more informed diagnosis. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease 5.3 Criteria for referral for endoscopic intestinal biopsy 5.3.1 Review question What are the referral indications for endoscopic intestinal biopsy for further investigation in people with coeliac disease? Once diagnosed and treated with a gluten-free diet, most people with coeliac disease to 6 months. In some circumstances, people with CD may experience little or no resolution. In these situations an endoscopic biopsy may be required for further investigation. 5.3.2 Methods The aim of this review question was to determine what factors may indicate appropriate referral for endoscopic intestinal biopsy for people with coeliac disease. Studies were only included if the population examined were adults or children with a diagnosis of coeliac disease who were being monitored while on a gluten-free diet and in whom an endoscopic intestinal biopsy may be useful for further investigation. Outcomes of interest were as follows: complications of coeliac disease; mortality; health- related quality of life; and resource use and cost. For full details of the review protocol please see Appendix C. A systematic search was conducted (see Appendix C) which identified 925 references. The references were screened on their titles and abstracts and full text papers of 20 references were obtained and reviewed against the inclusion and exclusion criteria in the review protocol (see Appendix C). All 20 studies were excluded as they did not meet the eligibility criteria such as inappropriate study design (case-studies), not a primary study (descriptive narrative, opinion, etc.), or studies in which an endoscopic intestinal biopsy was being conducted for the purposes of initial diagnoses rather than for follow-up investigation. A detailed list of excluded studies and reasons for their exclusion is provided in appendix F. No data were available in relation to the a-priori specified outcomes of interest. A post-hoc decision was made by the GDG to analyse the following data, which was available from other  Change in serological markers on routine monitoring on a gluten-free diet as an indication of histological recovery  Presenting symptoms of nonresponsive coeliac disease (NRCD) as an indication for the need for further assessment of people with coeliac disease) and 6.1 (presenting features of non-responsive coeliac the present review. Overall, 5 papers from
