Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


NRCD experience persistent anaemia while following a gluten-free diet for a period of at least 6 months. 5.3.6 Evidence to recommendations Relative value The GDG discussed and agreed that currently there was very limited of different evidence on the a priori selected outcomes of complications of CD, relation to indications for endoscopic intestinal biopsy for further investigation in those with CD. The value of using serological testing to drive indication for biopsy was discussed extensively in terms of the low sensitivity and specificity of these tests as markers of diet adherence and histological recovery (see section 5.4). For example, symptoms may disappear while on a gluten- free diet however an endoscopic intestinal biopsy shows no histological recovery. The value of using symptomology to drive indication for an endoscopic intestinal biopsy was also discussed in detail. It was recognised that not all people with coeliac disease have symptoms at diagnosis, and gluten-free diet. These people may require an endoscopic intestinal biopsy to ensure that there is histological response to the gluten-free diet. The group also cited published research and anecdotal experience of cases that had shown symptomatic improvement despite patients having persistent severely damaged villi, or vice versa, suggesting that clinical improvement should also not be relied upon as an indication for biopsy. Trade-off The benefit of routine monitoring was discussed and the group agreed between this was useful in order to identify those in whom a gluten-free diet is benefits and not having an optimal outcome. (See section 5.4). It was discussed by Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease harms the GDG that often clinicians will chose to re-biopsy patients after 18 – 24 months as part of a monitoring strategy. Persistently high titres in serology can indicate when further investigations are needed; however persistently high titres may also be misleading and be unrelated to histological outcome. The group agreed however, that in a person with persistently high antibodies, an endoscopic intestinal biopsy would be useful to inform the full clinical picture. People who present with symptoms of non-responsive coeliac disease should be referred to an expert dietitian, as the most common cause of persisting clinical symptoms is gluten ingestion (see section 6.1). Due to the invasive nature of biopsy, the group agreed that a person with non- responsive CD should only be considered for re-biopsy for further investigation after continued gluten ingestion
