Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


Due to the invasive nature of biopsy, the group agreed that a person with non- responsive CD should only be considered for re-biopsy for further investigation after continued gluten ingestion has been ruled out. Most people with coeliac disease report clinical improvement within 2–6 months; anything beyond this was agreed to represent an outlier. Economic No economic evidence on referral indications for endoscopic intestinal considerations biopsy for further investigation of coeliac disease was found. Quality of Overall the evidence identified for serological monitoring was of very evidence low quality. This is because although it is possible to design a randomised controlled trial comparing two different monitoring strategies. No such study was identified and only lower quality evidence with design limitations was used in this review. The quality of evidence for presenting symptoms for non-responsive coeliac disease was high. Other Current clinical practice in the UK is to monitor with serology on an considerations annual basis. Biopsies are often repeated 12 to 24 months after diagnosis. The GDG did not consider the evidence sufficient to change current practice regarding serology and biopsy, despite the fact that they did not believe that serology was an accurate biomarker for response to gluten-free diet. 5.3.7 Recommendations & research recommendations 15. Consider referring people with coeliac disease for endoscopic intestinal biopsy if continued exposure to gluten has been excluded and:  Serological titres are persistently high and show little or no change after 12 months or  they have persistent symptoms, including diarrhoea, abdominal pain, weight loss, fatigue or unexplained anaemia. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease 5.4 Routine monitoring How frequently should people with coeliac disease be routinely monitored? Should the frequency of routine monitoring differ for patients at risk of developing certain complications? What should routine monitoring consist of? There exists a great variation in current clinical practice in terms of what constitutes the routine monitoring of those with coeliac disease. Some centres may monitor patients more frequently and choose to biopsy patients within a year of diagnosis to assess histological recovery, while other centres may offer initial dietetic advice and follow-up patients only in the event of continued complications. The relationship between frequency and type of monitoring and the clinical symptoms of celiac disease is yet to be explored. Optimal follow- up and monitoring should aim to aid those with coeliac disease to achieve histological
