Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


of monitoring and the clinical symptoms of celiac disease is yet to be explored. Optimal follow- up and monitoring should aim to aid those with coeliac disease to achieve histological and symptomatic recovery. The aim of this review is therefore to identify what optimal monitoring practice should consist of. 5.4.2 Methods should be followed up. The second component of this question was designed to investigate if any subgroups at risk of developing any particular complications of coeliac disease should be followed up more frequently. The final component of this question examined what assessments and checks should be carried out to monitor coeliac disease, particularly in those at risk of developing complications. Studies were only included if the population examined included people of any age who were diagnosed with coeliac disease and who were being monitored while on a gluten-free diet. GDG-selected outcomes of interest were as follows; resolution of gastrointestinal and non- gastrointestinal symptoms, growth in children and young people, complications of coeliac monitoring were considered appropriate for inclusion. For full details of the review protocol please see Appendix C. A systematic search was conducted (see Appendix C) which identified 4851 references. The references were screened on their titles and abstracts and full text papers of 63 references were obtained and reviewed against the inclusion and exclusion criteria in the review protocol (see Appendix C). Fifty three studies were excluded as they did not meet the eligibility criteria such as inappropriate study design (case-series with variable length of follow-up), not a primary study (descriptive narrative, opinion, etc.). A detailed list of excluded studies and reasons for their exclusion is provided in Appendix F. Randomised controlled trials were considered to be the highest quality evidence available to answer this question and are graded as high in a GRADE framework. No randomised controlled trials were identified so studies with the next best design (cohort studies) for this question were used. The quality for each outcome could be downgraded due to risk of bias in terms of methods, inconsistency between studies, indirectness in terms of population, tests and outcomes used, or imprecision in terms of outcomes. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease Ten papers met this revised criteria and were included. Another 2 studies were identified through searches for other questions or reference checking and so a total of 12 studies were included. No randomised controlled
