Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


adults with coeliac disease had nutritionally deficient diets after 12 months on a gluten-free diet 5.4.5.11 Evidence for healthcare professional involvement in monitoring people with coeliac disease Very low quality evidence from a single study (N = 99) found an increase of 12% in those adhering to a gluten-free diet after 12 months with a dietitian-led coeliac disease clinic. The same study (N = 80) found a 52% increase in those satisfied with their care after 12 months with a dietitian-led coeliac disease clinic. 5.4.5.12 Health economic evidence statements An original, partially applicable cost–utility analysis with potentially serious limitations suggested that the introduction of a dietitian-led coeliac disease clinic results in increased reliant on a single, very low-quality study for its effectiveness evidence. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease 5.4.6 Evidence to recommendations Relative value The GDG discussed and agreed that currently there was very limited of different evidence on the a priori selected outcomes such as resolution of outcomes gastrointestinal and non-gastrointestinal symptoms and adherence to a gluten-free diet. Both outcomes were deemed to be critical but also difficult to interpret on their own. For example, symptoms may disappear while on a gluten-free diet but biopsy results still show no change. Adherence to a gluten free-diet is also difficult to monitor accurately as commonly used tools such as 3- or 7-day diaries and self-report questionnaires are not very accurate as people may believe that they are adherent but inadvertently are ingesting some gluten. Sensitivity to gluten is an important factor in terms of serology or biopsy monitoring as some people with coeliac disease are highly sensitive to gluten while others are less so. Trade-off One of the major benefits of routine monitoring is the increased level of between contact between the person with coeliac disease and healthcare benefits and professionals. This facilitates the provision of information and ongoing harms support essential for a condition such as coeliac disease. The value of knowing that the gluten-free diet appears to be working, through reduction in antibody titres over time, can be reassuring to people with coeliac disease and/or their carers. This is a powerful motivation factor in helping people with coeliac disease adhere to a gluten-free diet. Routine monitoring can also identify those in whom the gluten-free diet is not having an optimal outcome (see sections 5.3 and 6.1). Persistently high serological titres can
