Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


a gluten-free diet. Routine monitoring can also identify those in whom the gluten-free diet is not having an optimal outcome (see sections 5.3 and 6.1). Persistently high serological titres can indicate when further investigations are indicated and, in many cases, when further dietary education and counselling is needed (see section 7). However, the group discussed that the evidence does not indicate a strong nor conclusive relationship between serological titres and dietary adherence, in that a number or patients who were shown to be strictly adhering to a GFD still had persistently high serological titres. The GDG also discussed shared clinical experience in which patients who were very strict adherers to the GFD still had high serological titres. In these patients, serological testing does not accurately reflect histological recovery. It can therefore be potentially harmful to the patient’s adherence to the GFD when they feel that they are doing everything in their power to exclude gluten from their diet and this is not being reflected in their serological testing. The group therefore recognised should not be used alone to determine GFD adherence. The group raised the notion that it is also important to consider what the routine monitoring consists of. Satisfaction with routine monitoring increased in one study when a dietitian was involved. A qualitative study cited by the GDG also supports this evidence and found that regular clinics with the full coeliac disease multi- disciplinary lead to increase satisfaction with the service. The chapter on nutritional status and diet (section 7.3) also highlighted a need for additional nutritional supplements particularly in newly diagnosed people with coeliac disease. The GDG agreed that nutritional deficiencies in diet should be identified through appropriate ongoing Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease monitoring based on an individual’s needs and supplementations should not be initiated without a full assessment from the healthcare professional team including the dietitian. Economic The GDG understood that the original health economic modelling considerations undertaken for this question was exploratory in nature, and totally reliant on a single parameter from a very low-quality study (Wylie et al., 2005) to estimate the effectiveness of dietitian-led follow-up (in terms of improved adherence to GFD). The GDG discussed that, if the improvement in adherence to GFD reported by Wylie et al. (2005) can be believed, then dietitian-led follow- up is very likely to be a cost-effective strategy. However,
