Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


that, if the improvement in adherence to GFD reported by Wylie et al. (2005) can be believed, then dietitian-led follow- up is very likely to be a cost-effective strategy. However, the shortcomings of this evidence make it difficult to be confident of the size of effect that would be seen in practice. Therefore, the GDG concluded it was critical to recommend additional research on this topic. The GDG also noted that the package of follow-up care reported by Wylie et al. (2005) comprised multiple elements, including dietetic review, DEXA scanning, blood tests and gastroenterological referral for a proportion of patients. It was not possible to identify what contribution each of these components made to the reported effect. However, when it came to the outcome that was critical to the health economic model – adherence to GFD – the GDG was content to assume that the involvement of a dietitian was an important factor. Quality of evidence Overall, the evidence identified for routine monitoring was of very low quality. This is because although it is possible to design a randomised controlled trial comparing two different monitoring strategies, no such study was identified and only lower quality evidence with design limitations was identified. The GDG highlighted, based on their own benefit from regular dietetic assessment to monitor adherence to the gluten free diet, review symptoms, and provide nutritional advice, and that this would represent a gold-standard for annual review. However, in the current context of a lack of good quality evidence to support this, and the significant implementation ramifications of offering all people that the recommendation should reflect that dietetic input should be considered as part of an annual review. The GDG highlighted this as a priority for further research to stimulate investigation into the utility of dietetic support as an integral component of an annual review for people with coeliac disease. Other Current clinical practice in the UK is to monitor with serology on an considerations annual basis. Intestinal biopsies are often repeated 12 to 24 months after diagnosis. The GDG did not consider the evidence sufficient to change current practice regarding serology and biopsy. However, the GDG acknowledged that nutritional deficiencies at baseline may dictate follow up with a dietitian. The GDG also acknowledged that, while dietitians are routinely employed in secondary care, there are fewer in primary care, leading to a resource gap. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac
