Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


The GDG also acknowledged that, while dietitians are routinely employed in secondary care, there are fewer in primary care, leading to a resource gap. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease 5.4.7 Recommendations & research recommendations 5.4.7.1 Recommendations 16. Do not use serological testing alone to determine whether gluten has been excluded from the person’s diet. 17. Offer an annual review to people with coeliac disease. During the review:  measure weight and height  review symptoms  consider the need for assessment of diet and adherence to the gluten- free diet  consider the need for specialist dietetic and nutritional advice. 18. Refer the person to a GP or consultant if concerns are raised in the annual review. The GP or consultant should assess all of the following:  the need for a dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan (in line with the NICE guideline on osteoporosis: assessing the risk of fragility fracture) or active treatment of bone disease  the need for specific blood tests  the risk of long-term complications and comorbidities  the need for specialist referral. 5.4.7.2 Research recommendations 4. How can the role of the dietitian contribute most effectively within a coeliac disease team? Why this is important As a gluten-free diet is the primary treatment option for people with coeliac disease, it is important that a dietitian with a specialist interest in coeliac disease should play a significant role in their care and follow up. Many of the common problems associated with the long-term management of coeliac disease happen because of non-adherence to a gluten-free diet. It is important to explore how to maximise the effectiveness of the dietitian role in helping people with coeliac disease to adhere to a gluten-free diet. 5. What is the effectiveness of more frequent monitoring compared with monitoring at 12 months after diagnosis in people with newly diagnosed coeliac disease? Why this is important It is currently not known how often people with coeliac disease should have their condition monitored. No research adequately investigated the effectiveness of different monitoring frequencies. There is variation across the UK in how often people with coeliac disease have their condition monitored. Further research within this area is important to ensure that people with coeliac disease are having their condition adequately monitored. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease Internal Clinical
