Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


is important to ensure that people with coeliac disease are having their condition adequately monitored. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for testing for coeliac disease Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease 6 Evidence for non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease 6.1 Causes of non-responsive coeliac disease a) What are the potential causes of non-responsive coeliac disease (NRCD)? b) In people with confirmed refractory coeliac disease (RCD), what investigative procedures should be undertaken? NRCD can manifest where persons with coeliac disease do not experience symptomatic or histological improvement after excluding gluten from their diet, or when the symptomatic respite afforded by gluten exclusion dissipates and people again become symptomatic. Understanding the potential causes for NRCD is highly important in order to identify and rectify the causes of increased symptoms and investigate the potential for refractory coeliac disease. RCD is often deconstructed into separate sub-classifications and prognosis varies substantially depending on subtype. Subtype is determined by the presence (RCD II) or absence (RCD I) of aberrant small intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes (IEL’s). People with RCD II have a proportion of aberrant intra epithelial lymphocytes (IEL’s) that lose surface expression of CD3 and CD8, which is frequently associated with the presence of a monoclonal IEL population. This subtype is associated with a significantly reduced survival expectancy compared to those with RCD I, and this is predominantly driven by the increased risk of enteropathy associated T-cell lymphoma (EATL). Survival rate of those who develop EATL is poor, with a 2 year survival estimated between 15% - 20%. Investigative procedure which allow for the sub-classification of RCD, and monitoring for development of lymphoma and other enteropathies is of great importance to the clinical management of people with this condition. 6.1.2 Methods The aim of this review question was to determine:  The proportion of differing causes of persistent symptoms in people with a confirmed diagnosis of coeliac disease who have been advised to exclude gluten from their diet  The clinical utility of investigative tests in people with refractory coeliac disease NRCD is defined as a continuation of symptoms and/or signs of coeliac disease (CD) despite reporting being on a gluten-free diet (GFD). There are no current consensus criteria for the precise definition of RCD. We have defined RCD in this review as the persistence or later development of severe villous atrophy in people with CD
