Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


current consensus criteria for the precise definition of RCD. We have defined RCD in this review as the persistence or later development of severe villous atrophy in people with CD despite a strict gluten-free diet, where adherence/inadvertent gluten ingestion and potential concomitant conditions have also been ruled out. Studies reviewed were only included if the population examined was people in whom a biopsy-confirmed diagnosis of coeliac disease had been made. Studies considered for question 6.1.1 (a) investigated people who were deemed to have non-responsive coeliac disease (NRCD), and the potential causes for this non-responsiveness. Studies considered for question 6.1.1 (b) focused on investigative procedures for the sub-classification and monitoring of people with confirmed RCD. Cohort studies were considered to be the highest quality evidence available and are graded as high in a modified GRADE framework. The quality for each outcome could be Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease downgraded due to risk of bias in terms of methods, indirectness in terms of population, tests and outcomes used, inconsistency between studies, or imprecision in terms of outcomes. For full details of the review protocol please see Appendix C. Included Studies A systematic search was conducted (see Appendix C) which identified 1859 references. The references were screened on their titles and abstracts and full text papers of 39 references were obtained and reviewed against the inclusion and exclusion criteria in the review protocol (see Appendix C). Twenty seven studies were excluded as they did not meet the eligibility criteria such as inappropriate study design (case-control studies with healthy or symptom-free uncomplicated CD, or other patient comparator groups), not a primary study (descriptive narrative, opinion, etc.). A detailed list of excluded studies and reasons for their exclusion is provided in Appendix F. The 12 remaining published papers did meet the eligibility criteria and were included. Data were extracted into detailed evidence tables (see Appendix D). 6.1.3 Evidence review 6.1.3.1 Causes of nonresponsive coeliac disease Four studies (Dewar et al., 2012; Leffler et al., 2007; Abdulkarim et al., 2002; Van Weyenberg et al., 2013) contributed data to this analysis. Samples sizes ranged from 48 to 113 adults with NRCD. The mean age of study participants ranged from 42 to 63 years. The study participants were on a gluten-free diet for between 6 months and 6 years. 6.1.3.2 Subtyping of RCD into RCD type I and RCD
