Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


very important and different implications. Mortality is a primary outcome of concern for refractory disease. Identifying methods of subtyping of refractory disease into type I and type II was also highlighted as a highly important outcome of interest for the GDG, as those with RCD II have a poorer prognosis and require closer monitoring. Identifying the cause of symptoms in nonresponsive CD was also highlighted as a key outcome of concern for the GDG in order to be able to address and rectify ongoing symptoms and improve the quality of life of patients. Trade-off Identifying the proportion of differing causes of NRCD between benefits and Non responsive coeliac disease was found to be most often associated harms with exposure to gluten. The group discussed potential reasons for this and considered that for those who were incidentally ingesting gluten, increased education about the GFD is needed. For this reason, the group thought it was important that people should be referred to a specialist dietitian to review diet and any potential consumption of gluten which may be causing ongoing problems. When gluten ingestion has been rules out, investigation for other potential causes highlighted in this review, such as IBS or microscopic colitis, should be undertaken. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease Patients who are experiencing ongoing symptoms often have a poor quality of life, and the group discussed that it was important that further investigation was undergone as quickly as possible in order to identify any potential causes before considering diagnosis of true refractory coeliac disease. The GDG also recognised that true refractory coeliac disease was a condition only diagnosed in adults, whereas any children continuing to have symptoms are almost always inadvertently ingesting gluten or have a contributing comorbid condition. Change to clinical management The importance of establishing the certainty of diagnosis was discussed as potentially problematic. In the absence of accurate biopsy orientations, a re-biopsy may be required. In order for the biopsy to be accurate, a gluten-challenge may need to be undertaken. This is often distressing and problematic for people. It can be difficult for people to understand when they are told to make sure that all gluten is excluded from the diet and then recommended to resume eating gluten for the purposes of diagnostic testing. The group felt that the benefit of making certain the diagnosis in order to identify
