Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


the diet and then recommended to resume eating gluten for the purposes of diagnostic testing. The group felt that the benefit of making certain the diagnosis in order to identify causes of ongoing problems would outweigh the potential discomfort of patients while they underwent a gluten challenge for the 6 week period recommended before investigations. Patient outcome at follow up The group raised the notion that in making a referral to a specialist centre to follow-up refractory CD patients would be particularly beneficial to both people with RCD and treating clinicians. This is because numbers of patients with confirmed RCD are so small that referral of these people to a specialist centre will allow the few centres to build up sufficient expertise in this area, and to ensure correct and appropriate immunology tests are done to determine the diagnosis and subtype. At present, very few centres will have this expertise. Health-related quality of life Health-related quality of life was particularly discussed in terms of the impact that ongoing symptoms and potential mortality and cancer risk has on patients with RCD. Investigative procedures which assess subtyping of RCD into type I and type II were discussed as particularly important in order to understand and communicate prognosis to patients. As RCD II is associated with an increased risk of EATL, investigative procedures for this were also highlighted as essential for monitoring and assessment. The utility of these procedures was discussed as problematic, as the evidence suggests, because these have low sensitivity and specificity to detect EATL. Harms of these procedures were also discussed in terms of their invasive nature, which could cause these patients, who are likely very unwell, further discomfort. The capsule endoscopy method in particular was discussed as potentially harmful to patients who do have EATL or another major intestinal obstruction due to the capsule not being able to pass through and thus requiring surgery for its removal. The group discussed the very poor prognosis of those diagnosed with EATL and agreed that the most important consideration for any patient was to diagnose or exclude EATL as soon as possible. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease Economic No economic evidence was found considerations Quality of Overall the evidence identified for causes of non-responsive coeliac evidence disease was high. The evidence for investigations for refractory coeliac disease, however, varied from low to high
