Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


considerations Quality of Overall the evidence identified for causes of non-responsive coeliac evidence disease was high. The evidence for investigations for refractory coeliac disease, however, varied from low to high quality. This is because populations that were not truly refractory were included in some of the studies, and because the confidence intervals for estimated sensitivity and specificity were often very wide, reflecting the lack of power to detect clinically meaningful results. Other The GDG discussed and agreed that currently there was no clear considerations consensus over how non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease should be defined and diagnosed. The presence of symptoms is often cited as necessary for recognition; however it was recognised by the GDG that some people may not be symptomatic, such as those detected through case-finding or incidentally and thus would not show clinical remission. It was also recognised that clinical remission may not reflect histological remission (see 5.4). The group expressed concern that as such, refractoriness may be over diagnosed when the most likely cause is inadvertent exposure to gluten. The input of a specialist dietitian was highlighted as essential in order to make certain that gluten has been completely excluded from the diet. The GDG acknowledged that because RCD populations are rare it is difficult to obtain adequate sample sizes to detect true sensitivity and specificity estimates of imaging procedures to detect malignancy. The GDG also acknowledged that computerised tomography (CT) was a poor tool to use for detection of malignancy, but may be useful in conjunction with other imaging modalities. The limitations of capsule endoscopy were also discussed in terms of the presence of lesions such as ulcerative jejunitis and malignancy being contraindications for the capsule to successfully pass through the intestines. If the capsule becomes lodged in the intestine, an operation is required to remove it and this can be distressing for people with RCD. Some members of the group stated that in certain circumstances, capsule endoscopy may be of some, albeit limited, utility. 6.1.7 Recommendations & research recommendations 19. Consider the following actions in people with coeliac disease who have persistent symptoms despite advice to exclude gluten from their diet:  review the certainty of the original diagnosis  refer the person to a specialist dietitian to investigate continued exposure to gluten  investigate potential complications or coexisting conditions that may be causing persistent symptoms, such as irritable bowel syndrome, lactose intolerance, bacterial
