Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


a specialist dietitian to investigate continued exposure to gluten  investigate potential complications or coexisting conditions that may be causing persistent symptoms, such as irritable bowel syndrome, lactose intolerance, bacterial overgrowth, microscopic colitis or inflammatory colitis. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease 20. Diagnose refractory coeliac disease if the original diagnosis of coeliac disease has been confirmed, and exposure to gluten and any coexisting conditions have been excluded as the cause of continuing symptoms. 21. Refer people with refractory coeliac disease to a specialist centre for further investigation Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease 6.2 Pharmacological interventions 6.2.1 Review question What is the effectiveness of pharmacological treatments for people with refractory coeliac disease? There is currently very little known about the optimal pharmacological treatment strategy for patients with refractory coeliac disease. Current clinical practice is to treat with steroids such this and other potential treatment strategies is needed in order to ensure that patients with this condition receive the best pharmacological management. 6.2.2 Methods The aim of this review was to establish the effectiveness of pharmacological interventions for the symptoms of refractory coeliac disease. A systematic search was conducted which recovered a total of 928 results (after duplicates were removed). Results were screened on title and abstract, and a total of 68 full-text papers were ordered to be assessed for eligibility against the inclusion and exclusion criteria specified in the review protocol. Two additional studies were identified from cross-referencing narrative reviews. These were not retrieved from our search because the abstract and title did not report the drug used in the studies. Of the 71 full-text articles obtained, 57 were excluded for reasons specified in Appendix F. Overall, 14 small case series were selected for inclusion, of which only 4 studies included more than 30 people with refractory coeliac disease (see summary table X). Only 6 studies were prospective, while the remaining 8 were retrospective reports of people treated at particular institutions for refractory coeliac disease. Among the 14 studies included, there was a potential for overlap of participants reported in 3 pairs of the studies which were included (see footnotes on tables below). The GDG acknowledged that this was likely due to the rarity of this condition. The later publications included longer follow-up of participants included in earlier studies but tended to be
