Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


The GDG acknowledged that this was likely due to the rarity of this condition. The later publications included longer follow-up of participants included in earlier studies but tended to be retrospective and report on the outcomes of all people treated at a centre with a larger number of pharmacological treatments or combinations of these treatments. These later studies also tended to report some outcomes across all people treated at a centre, regardless of which drug or combinations of drugs they received. It was not possible to pool results due to the heterogeneous nature of the included studies, owing to factors such as small differences in definitions applied to refractory coeliac disease immunological and histological response),. A summary of the results is included in table X below. Randomised controlled trials are the optimal study design to answer this review question. However, due to the rarity of true refractory coeliac disease, the GDG was aware of only case series in this field with very small numbers of participants per study. As such, a modified GRADE assessment of individual studies was applied for this question. The outcomes specified in the review protocol were extracted, where available, and included:  Resolution of gastrointestinal and non-gastrointestinal symptoms  Complications of coeliac disease  Adverse effects  Health-related quality of life Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease  Impact on carers  Serological response  Histological response The reporting of these outcomes varied across the included studies and no study reported on the impact of pharmacological treatments on health-related quality of life or on carers. Full evidence tables are found in Appendix D. 6.2.3 Evidence review 6.2.3.1 Immunosuppressants (azathioprine, cyclosporine, cladribine, tioguanine, methotrexate) Six small case series in up to 22 adults examined the effectiveness of immunosuppressive therapy to treat the symptoms of refractory coeliac disease in a group of people with biopsy- confirmed coeliac disease and a diagnosis of refractory coeliac disease. 6.2.3.2 Corticosteroids (prednisone, prednisolone, budesonide) Six small case series in up to 22 adults examined the effectiveness of corticosteroids to treat the symptoms of refractory coeliac disease in a group of people with biopsy-confirmed coeliac disease and a diagnosis of refractory coeliac disease. 6.2.3.3 Aminosalicylates (mesalamine/mesalazine) One very small case series in four adults examined the effectiveness of mesalamine to treat the symptoms of refractory coeliac disease in a group of people with biopsy-confirmed coeliac
