Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


(mesalamine/mesalazine) One very small case series in four adults examined the effectiveness of mesalamine to treat the symptoms of refractory coeliac disease in a group of people with biopsy-confirmed coeliac disease and a diagnosis of refractory coeliac disease. 6.2.3.4 Combinations (corticosteroids + immunosupressants or multiple immunosupressants) Five small case series in up to18 adults examined the effectiveness of corticosteroids and immunosupressants in combination to treat the symptoms of refractory coeliac disease in a group of people with biopsy-confirmed coeliac disease and a diagnosis of refractory coeliac disease. One very small case series in 6 adults examined the effectiveness of both prednisone and mesalamine in combination to treat the symptoms of refractory coeliac disease in a group of people with biopsy-confirmed coeliac disease and a diagnosis of refractory coeliac disease. One very small case series in 10 adults examined the effectiveness of cladribine plus pre- treatment with azathioprine or prednisone to treat the symptoms of refractory coeliac disease in a group of people with biopsy-confirmed coeliac disease and a diagnosis of refractory coeliac disease. 6.2.3.5 Cytokine modulators (unspecified anti-TNF α) One very small case series in 4 adults examined the effectiveness of anti-TNF to treat the symptoms of refractory coeliac disease in a group of people with biopsy-confirmed coeliac disease and a diagnosis of refractory coeliac disease. 6.2.4 Health economic evidence An economic evaluations filter was applied to the search protocol for this research question with the aim of finding economic evaluations that explored the cost effectiveness of pharmacological therapy for refractory coeliac disease. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease The search identified 63 references. The references were screened on their titles and abstracts and none of the studies met the inclusion criteria. No cost–utility analyses were found to address selection criteria. 6.2.5 Evidence statements Overall, the studies included were very low quality and contained no control group. Additionally, it is likely that there was an overlap of people reported in some of the included studies. 6.2.5.1 Immunosuppressants (azathioprine, cyclosporine, cladribine, tioguanine, methotrexate) Very low quality evidence from 6 small case series (n=22 or less) reported that immunosuppressants may reduce symptoms and villous atrophy in some people with refractory coeliac disease, but also reported some adverse effects of the treatment. 6.2.5.2 Corticosteroids (prednisone, prednisolone, budesonide) Very low quality evidence from 6 small case series (n=47 or less) reported that corticosteroids alone may reduce
