Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


reported some adverse effects of the treatment. 6.2.5.2 Corticosteroids (prednisone, prednisolone, budesonide) Very low quality evidence from 6 small case series (n=47 or less) reported that corticosteroids alone may reduce symptoms and villous atrophy in some people with refractory coeliac disease. 6.2.5.3 Aminosalicylates (mesalamine/mesalazine) Very low quality evidence from 1 very small case series (n=4) reported that mesalamine may reduce symptoms in some people with refractory coeliac disease. 6.2.5.4 Combinations (corticosteroids + immunosupressants or multiple immunosupressants) Very low quality evidence from 5 small case series (n=18 or less) reported that corticosteroids and immunosupressants in combination may reduce some symptoms and villous atrophy in some people with refractory coeliac disease. Very low quality evidence from 1 very small case series (n=6) reported that both prednisone and mesalamine may reduce some symptoms in some people with refractory coeliac disease. Very low quality evidence from 1 very small case series (n=10) reported that cladribine plus pre-treatment with azathioprine or prednisone reduces symptoms and villous atrophy in a small proportion of people with refractory coeliac disease. 6.2.5.5 Cytokine modulators (unspecified anti-TNF α) Very low quality evidence from 1 very small case series (n=4) reported that anti-TNF α may reduce symptoms in some people with refractory coeliac disease. 6.2.6 Evidence to recommendations Relative value of The GDG felt that all outcomes of interest for this question were different equally valuable and important to address. outcomes Trade-off The GDG was concerned with the state of the evidence on the Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease between pharmacological treatment for refractory coeliac disease. The benefits and evidence was of very low quality (see ‘quality of evidence’ below) and harms on very small numbers of participants. As a result of the limited and low quality evidence, the GDG did not feel it was possible to make recommendations about treatment based on the evidence. They were also concerned that many clinicians are not experienced in dealing with people with this rare condition and that other factors such as nutritional management may play a role Consequently, the GDG felt that advice should be sought from specialists with experience in managing people with this rare condition. Despite feeling that they could not make recommendations about pharmacological management based on the evidence, the GDG was cognisant that people with refractory coeliac disease are typically in very poor condition and felt it was important that
