Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


recommendations about pharmacological management based on the evidence, the GDG was cognisant that people with refractory coeliac disease are typically in very poor condition and felt it was important that these people received some treatment, even while waiting for advice from a evidence to support the use of any pharmacological treatment for refractory coeliac disease so made this decision based on their clinical expertise. While the GDG was concerned about encouraging the use of drugs for which there is little evidence, they felt that because there was not recommend the use of prednisone or prednisolone. However, they expressed concerns about the long-term effects of these drugs so recommended that they only be used while clinicians are awaiting advice from a specialist. The GDG felt that people with suspected refractory coeliac disease should not be started on prednisolone or prednisone without the expectation of an early review. Due to the poor to use these drugs for short term management given that these people would be under close and frequent clinical review. Furthermore, regarding the use of immunosupressants, the group felt that these drugs should not be prescribed without advice and follow- up of a specialist because prescribing these drugs requires experience and specific expertise, particularly with the associated risk of adverse events. The GDG felt mesalazine was promising as an option and that there is less potential for harm related to this drug, but there is very little evidence to make recommendations about its use. They felt that further research into its use should be supported. They also felt that budesonide should not be prescribed routinely as it is not commonly used and there is little evidence on its use. Overall, the GDG felt that there is a need for high-quality evidence to inform the management of patients with refractory coeliac disease. Economic No economic evidence on pharmacological management of coeliac considerations disease was found. Quality of The available evidence on the pharmacological management of Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease evidence refractory coeliac disease is observational and of very low quality. The evidence is based on case series with no control or case reports (though the later were excluded from the guideline) and are, therefore, likely to be subject to bias. In addition, the included case series are predominantly retrospective studies where it was unclear why the participants were allocated to different
