Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


and are, therefore, likely to be subject to bias. In addition, the included case series are predominantly retrospective studies where it was unclear why the participants were allocated to different drugs or different combinations of drugs. Furthermore, for most studies, it is unclear if participants were recruited consecutively so reporting bias is a possibility. Many of the studies were retrospective reports of all people with refractory coeliac disease treated at specific centres and the focus of the study was not specifically on the efficacy of specific treatments rather the study reported some outcomes for all participants regardless of treatment. Consequently, this made it difficult to attribute the affect that each individual treatment had on participant outcomes. Other The GDG was aware that prednisolone is the only drug that is licensed considerations for coeliac disease unresponsive to gluten withdrawal. 6.2.7 Recommendations & research recommendation 22. Consider prednisolone for the initial management of the symptoms of refractory coeliac disease in adults while waiting for specialist advice. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease 6.3 Nutritional interventions 6.3.1 Review question What is the effectiveness of nutritional management or nutritional support for people with refractory coeliac disease? It is currently unknown whether any specific dietary interventions beyond the gluten-free diet can alleviate symptoms of refractory coeliac disease. This chapter sought to investigate the clinical efficacy of any such dietary interventions for this population. 6.3.2 Methods The aim of this question was to determine whether people with refractory coeliac disease would benefit from additional nutritional support or nutritional management. A systematic search was conducted which identified 2161 references studies. After removing duplicates the references were screened on their titles and abstracts and 38 references were obtained and reviewed against the inclusion and exclusion criteria (for the full review protocol please see Appendix C). All 38 studies were excluded as they did not meet the inclusion criteria, such as, inappropriate study population (e.g. participants did not have refractory coeliac disease), the intervention wasn’t one of interest or not primary research study (e.g. expert opinion). A list of excluded studies and reasons for their exclusion is provided in Appendix F. 6.3.3 Evidence review No evidence that met the inclusion and exclusion criteria for this question was found. 6.3.4 Health economic evidence An economic evaluations filter was applied to the search protocol for this research question with the aim of finding
