Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


exclusion criteria for this question was found. 6.3.4 Health economic evidence An economic evaluations filter was applied to the search protocol for this research question with the aim of finding economic evaluations that explored the cost-effectiveness of nutritional support or nutritional management of people with refractory coeliac disease. The search identified 173 references. The references were screened on their titles and abstracts and none of the studies met the inclusion criteria. No cost–utility analyses were found to address selection criteria. 6.3.5 Evidence statements No evidence that met the inclusion and exclusion criteria for this question was found. 6.3.6 Evidence to recommendations Relative value of No evidence was included to answer this review question. The GDG different based its decisions on the knowledge and experience of the group. outcomes Trade-off The GDG did not feel able to make a recommendation on this topic. between True refractory coeliac disease is quite rare (as most people are found benefits and to have either been still being exposed to gluten, or are found to have harms another condition), therefore they could not be sure that additional Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease nutritional support or nutritional management would be of benefit. The GDG also noted that as stipulated in section 5.4 (Monitoring of people with CD), all people with coeliac disease, regardless of whether they dietetic advice and that as such these patients should at least be getting some dietetic support. Economic No health economic evidence was found and this question was not considerations prioritised for de novo modelling. Quality of No evidence was available. evidence 6.3.7 Recommendations & research recommendations No recommendations were made for this review question. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease 6.4 Autologous stem-cell transplants 6.4.1 Review question What is the effectiveness of autologous stem cell transplant for people with refractory coeliac disease? Stem cell research in refractory coeliac disease is a very new and potentially promising area of clinical medicine. This chapter sought to investigate the clinical efficacy of native stem cell replacement to treat refractory coeliac disease. 6.4.2 Methods The aim of this review question was to determine the efficacy of chemotherapy followed by transplantation of native stem cells (from the patient’s own body) for the treatment of confirmed refractory coeliac disease. A systematic search was conducted (see Appendix C) which identified
