Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


followed by transplantation of native stem cells (from the patient’s own body) for the treatment of confirmed refractory coeliac disease. A systematic search was conducted (see Appendix C) which identified 1035 references studies. After removing duplicates the references were screened on their titles and abstracts and 22 references were obtained and reviewed against the inclusion and exclusion criteria (for full review protocol see Appendix C). Twenty studies were excluded as they did not meet the eligibility criteria such as inappropriate study population (e.g. patients were already diagnosed with cancer) or not primary research study (e.g. expert opinions). A list of excluded studies and reasons for their exclusion is provided in Appendix F. The overall quality of the 2 included published papers (from one study) was of very poor quality with very low confidence in the effect estimates. This is due to the methodological issues of the study design such as non-randomised and non-comparative, prone to selection bias, poor reporting on data and analysis, unclear recruitment strategies. Moreover, the study only focused on a specific subgroup of people with refractory coeliac disease (RCD) (i.e. RCD type II, unresponsive to cladribine therapy), and hence, this limited inconclusive evidence cannot be generalised to the overall RCD patient population. 6.4.3 Evidence review Two papers from 1 primary study (Tack et al., 2011; Al-Toma et al., 2011) with a total of 18 adults (age < 70 years) with a biopsy-confirmed diagnosis of CD and a further diagnosis of refractory coeliac disease were included in this review. All participants had no response to 1 or 2 prior courses of cladribine for 5 consecutive days. Of the 18 participants, only 13 went through autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT); 2 had unsuccessful leukapharesis and the remaining 3 progressed to enteropathy associated T-cell lymphoma (EATL). 6.4.4 Health economic evidence An economic evaluations filter was applied to the search protocol for this research question with the aim of finding economic evaluations that examined the cost effectiveness of autologous stem cell transplants in people with refractory coeliac disease. The search identified 62 references. The references were screened on their titles and abstracts and none of the studies met the inclusion criteria. No cost–utility or cost-effectiveness analyses were found to address selection criteria. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease 6.4.5 Evidence statements There was very limited inconclusive evidence from one very low quality case
