Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


criteria. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease 6.4.5 Evidence statements There was very limited inconclusive evidence from one very low quality case study on the effectiveness of autologous stem cell transplant for people with refractory coeliac disease. 6.4.6 Evidence to recommendations Relative value The GDG discussed and agreed that a person’s quality of life, of different resolution of gastrointestinal and non-gastrointestinal symptoms, and outcomes mortality (as a complication of coeliac disease e.g. development of T- cell lymphoma) are the critical outcomes of concern. However, the only included study (2 published papers) only reported 1 of the 3 critical outcomes which was mortality/survival from a very small study sample (13 participants). Trade-off Due the very limited and very low quality data reported in the only between included study, and the fact that autologous stem cell transplant benefits and services are very rare in the UK, the GDG felt that they were unable harms have a meaningful discussion about the benefits and harms of autologous stem cell transplant for people with refractory coeliac disease. Economic No published cost–utility or cost-effectiveness analyses were found considerations from the systematic searches that addressed the inclusion criteria. The GDG further discussed that currently there are only approximately 3 services across the whole UK that could deliver autologous stem cell transplant, and that the cost impact of establishing more autologous stem cell transplant services would be very high. The GDG had made an assumption that based on the current available very limited low quality evidence and the high cost of autologous stem cell transplant services, autologous stem cell transplant would not be cost effective for people with refractory coeliac disease. Quality of After the discussion of the only included study (2 published papers), the evidence GDG agreed that the included study was of very low quality case series and they have a lot of uncertainties about the effect estimates reported in the study because i) very small and narrow-defined sample size (only 13 patients with specific type II RCD) and a proportion of the participants already had enteropathy associated T-cell lymphoma; ii) the data reported was non-comparative; iii) the outcomes reported were unclear. Hence, the GDG agreed that this limited inconclusive evidence cannot be generalised to the overall population of people with refractory coeliac disease, and therefore the GDG was unable to make any recommendation regarding autologous stem cell
