Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


limited inconclusive evidence cannot be generalised to the overall population of people with refractory coeliac disease, and therefore the GDG was unable to make any recommendation regarding autologous stem cell transplant for people with refractory coeliac disease. 6.4.7 Recommendations & research recommendations No recommendations were made. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for non-responsive and refractory coeliac disease Research recommendation: 6. What is the clinical and cost-effectiveness of autologous stem cell transplant for the treatment of people with refractory coeliac disease? Why this is important Refractory celiac disease (RCD) is often very severe and requires additional therapeutic intervention besides a gluten-free diet (GFD). RCD type 2 is particularly associated with poor prognosis despite conventional therapeutic interventions (GFD and/or pharmacological treatments) with 5-year survival rates of 40–58%. Poor prognosis is largely explained by the much more frequent progression to overt enteropathy-associated T-cell lymphoma (EATL) in patients with RCD type 2. Due to the poor prognosis of RCD, the aim of this research recommendation is to determine, other than GFD and pharmacological treatments, how effective it is to treat refractory coeliac disease with chemotherapy followed by transplantation of autologous stem cells. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for information and support related to coeliac disease 7 Evidence for information and support related to coeliac disease 7.1 At diagnosis 7.1.1 Review question: a) What information do people need to help them decide whether to undergo initial testing for coeliac disease? testing to ensure that test results are as accurate as possible? This review question sought to investigate the information that people who are considering testing for CD should be provided with in order to help them decide whether to undergo serological testing. This is particularly relevant for people who may be informed by their healthcare professional that they are at risk of developing the condition and offered serological testing, such as first degree family members or those with certain comorbid conditions, as identified in section 4.2. Identifying the information needs of these populations will enable those deciding whether to undergo serological testing to make a more informed decision. Furthermore, it is not currently known what information should be given to people prior to testing in relation to the consumption of gluten. This chapter sought to investigate information provision around the amount of gluten that needs to be consumed prior to serological testing in order to optimize the accuracy of
