Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


of gluten. This chapter sought to investigate information provision around the amount of gluten that needs to be consumed prior to serological testing in order to optimize the accuracy of the result. 7.1.2 Methods The aim of this review was to establish what information is needed by people to:  Help them decide whether to be tested for coeliac disease  Manage their diet before being tested A systematic search was conducted (see Appendix C) which identified 1234 references. These references were screened on their titles and abstracts and full text papers of 5 references were obtained and reviewed against the exclusion and inclusion criteria in the review protocol (see Appendix C). Four studies met the inclusion criteria. One study was excluded for not being a primary study. No a priori outcomes were identified in the protocol for this question. The GDG felt that it would be difficult to find relevant evidence for this question and did not want to restrict the analyses to any particular outcome in order to avoid the potential for unnecessarily excluding studies which may be useful. Outcomes of interest identified in the literature for the first component of this analysis include the following:  Patient experience of diagnosis and management  Carer perspective of diagnosis and management  Heath related quality of life pre and post diagnosis Qualitative studies in which a structured thematic interview was utilised were considered the highest quality in a modified GRADE framework to address the information needs of people considering undergoing testing for coeliac disease. . Survey-style questionnaires were considered less informative than personalised interviews and were thus graded as moderate quality within a modified GRADE framework for the same specific outcomes. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for information and support related to coeliac disease No studies were identified that addressed question (b) which examined the dietary advice that people with coeliac disease should be made aware of prior to testing in order to ensure maximum accuracy of the serological test. 7.1.3 Evidence review 7.1.3.1 Carers experience of diagnosis Two studies (Cederborg et al., 2011; Rosen et al., 2011) with a total of 165 children with a biopsy-confirmed diagnosis of CD explored the carer’s experience of diagnosis for their child using structured interviews. Primary areas of focus within the interviews included understanding the diagnosis, and the impact of transforming to a GFD. 7.1.3.2 Adolescents experience of diagnosis
