Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


quality evidence from a single study of 40 seropositive adults reported a potentially meaningful improvement in the expression of CD3+ intraepithelial lymphocytes in the duodenal biopsy samples of those following a gluten-free diet compared to those on a gluten 14.4). 7.1.6 Evidence to recommendations Relative value of The group discussed the evidence presented and felt that it was an different accurate representation of what is observed within a clinical setting. outcomes It was agreed that carer’s find many aspects of diagnosis and GFD management difficult and that information needs to be provided to Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for information and support related to coeliac disease support them through this. Adolescents who receive a diagnosis of CD also struggle significantly in terms of management of their condition and this is adequately reflected by the evidence presented. Information about CD and the importance of the GFD to manage the condition should be provided to all persons considering serological testing for CD. The most important information that should be provided to people with CD is that gluten needs to be ingested at each meal of the day in order for both the serological test, and if necessary, the subsequent biopsy, to be accurate. Trade-off Information about dietary advice prior to testing between benefits and The group discussed that the most important thing that any GP needs harms to discuss with a person who is to undergo serological testing for coeliac disease is whether they are eating gluten. This can present a challenge as many people do not know what gluten is. Those that present for serological testing because they have an affected first-degree relative may be on a gluten-free or gluten-light diet because of their family dietary adjustment. This may pose a challenge in terms of serological screening whereby sufficient amounts of gluten are not being ingested. The group felt it was important that gluten should be eaten in more than one meal a day, for a minimum of 6 weeks in order to maximise accuracy of serological testing. The GDG felt that the benefit of eating this much gluten in order to maximise serological testing accuracy outweighs the potential detriment of not ingesting enough gluten, which could potentially cause a false negative test. The group also discussed the importance of gluten ingestion in the context of serological testing in infants, whom may not yet have had gluten introduced
