Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


cause a false negative test. The group also discussed the importance of gluten ingestion in the context of serological testing in infants, whom may not yet have had gluten introduced into their diet. This population is similarly at risk of a false- negative serological test result because without the introduction of gluten into the diet, any potential coeliac-associated inflammatory response would not yet have occurred. It was therefore agreed by the group that infants should not be tested until gluten-containing products have been sufficiently incorporated into their daily diet. Information to consider before deciding to undergo testing The group discussed that this was particularly important to first-degree relatives of those with coeliac disease, who would be classified as ‘at risk’. This may also be relevant to those with conditions that predispose them to a higher likelihood of CD such as those with type 1 diabetes. In these circumstances, people within these populations may have a discussion with their GP about their increased likelihood of having CD and whether they would like to be tested for this. The GDG felt that is was important that it was explained in detail to people in this situation that the potential social and personal harm of avoiding eating gluten was far outweighed by the benefits for their general health and in order to avoid very serious long-term complications. The GDG discussed the potential for serious long-term complications such as reduced bone mineral density, malabsorption of key vitamins and minerals, dental enamel defects, and in extreme circumstances, increased risk of cancer such as enteropathy associated T-Cell lymphoma. The risk of these serious potential long-term complications Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for information and support related to coeliac disease are greatly reduced if coeliac disease is diagnosed and the person follows a strict gluten-free diet, highlighting the great importance of deciding to undergo testing in order to make an informed decision to manage these risks. Economic Economic evidence was not considered as part of this question. considerations Quality of The overall quality of evidence for this question ranged from high to evidence medium in a modified GRADE framework. The GDG was happy with the quality of evidence available and felt it of satisfactory quality on which to base recommendations. Other In the opinion of the GDG, It is uncommon for a person to present to considerations their GP and request serological testing for
