Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


quality on which to base recommendations. Other In the opinion of the GDG, It is uncommon for a person to present to considerations their GP and request serological testing for coeliac disease. Most present with generic gastrointestinal complaints or fatigue and may be tested for coeliac disease as part of a battery of investigative tests. The groups discussed the variability of time delay between serological testing and endoscopic intestinal biopsy in different areas. Those who test serologically positive for CD are required to continue a gluten- containing diet until the biopsy is carried out, and this can take up to 4 months or longer in some instances. This is particularly distressing for people when they are aware that there is a high chance that gluten is making them ill. 7.1.7 Recommendations & research recommendations Dietary considerations prior to testing for coeliac disease 23. Do not offer serological testing for coeliac disease in infants before gluten has been introduced into the diet. 24. For people undergoing investigations for coeliac disease:  explain that any test is accurate only if a gluten-containing diet is eaten during the diagnostic process and  advise the person not to start a gluten-free diet until diagnosis is positive. 25. Advise people who are following a normal diet (containing gluten) to eat some gluten in more than 1 meal every day for at least 6 weeks before testing. 26. If people who have restricted their gluten intake or excluded gluten from their diet are reluctant or unable to re-introduce gluten into their diet before testing:  refer the person to a gastrointestinal specialist and  explain that it may be difficult to confirm their diagnosis by intestinal biopsy. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for information and support related to coeliac disease Other information before serological testing 27. Explain to people who are thought to be at risk of coeliac disease that a delayed serious long-term complications. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for information and support related to coeliac disease 7.2 Evidence to improve adherence to a gluten-free diet family members or carers) need to improve adherence to a gluten-free diet and self- management of their condition? b) What is the patient perspective of self-management and how to improve adherence, including what information is required, different monitoring strategies, and with whom they are followed up? Many individuals with coeliac disease find it
