Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


perspective of self-management and how to improve adherence, including what information is required, different monitoring strategies, and with whom they are followed up? Many individuals with coeliac disease find it difficult both to understand the nature of gluten and the products that it is found in, and to completely avoid gluten containing products and exclude all gluten from their daily diet. This chapter sought to investigate the efficacy of information, education, or support strategies to improve adherence, as well as the patient perspective on how people with coeliac disease manage their daily gluten-free diet and what information they feel that they require to adhere to and maintain a gluten-free diet. 7.2.2 Methods The aim of this review was to establish what information, education, and support is needed by people with coeliac disease to help them follow a gluten-free diet and manage their own condition. The second component of this question was designed to examine the preferences of people with coeliac disease to improve their self-management and adherence, including information, different monitoring strategies, and with whom they are followed-up. Studies were only included if the population examined included people who were diagnosed with coeliac disease and who were being monitored while on a gluten-free diet. Outcomes of interest were as follows: resolution of gastrointestinal and non-gastrointestinal symptoms; participant experience; complications of coeliac disease; resource use and cost; adherence; health-related quality of life; impact on carers. For full details of the review protocol please see Appendix C. A systematic search was conducted (see Appendix C) which identified 1234 references. The references were screened on their titles and abstracts and full papers of 30 references were obtained and reviewed against the inclusion and exclusion criteria in the review protocol (see Appendix C). Twenty one studies were excluded as they did not meet the eligibility criteria such as not being a primary study, or not reporting on the predefined outcomes of interest. A detailed list of excluded studies and reasons for their exclusion is provided in Appendix F. Nine papers met the review criteria and were included. Data were extracted into detailed evidence tables (see Appendix D). Randomised controlled trials were considered to be the highest quality evidence available to answer question 7.2.1 (a), and were graded as high within a GRADE framework. There were no restrictions as to study design to answer the second question 7.2.1 (b), except for case reports, which were
