Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


and were graded as high within a GRADE framework. There were no restrictions as to study design to answer the second question 7.2.1 (b), except for case reports, which were excluded. Structured thematic interviews were considered the highest quality qualitative study designs within a modified GRADE framework. Survey-style questionnaires were considered less informative than personalised interviews and were thus graded as moderate quality within a modified GRADE framework. The quality for each outcome could be downgraded due to risk of bias in terms of study design, methods, inconsistency between studies, indirectness in terms of population, tests and outcomes used, or imprecision of outcomes. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for information and support related to coeliac disease 7.2.3 Evidence review 7.2.3.1 Specialised education intervention to resolve gastrointestinal symptoms One study randomised a total of 106 Swedish women with a biopsy- confirmed diagnosis of CD to take part in a patient education program to improve CD- associated gastrointestinal symptoms (n=51) or a control group (n=52). The control participants were sent a total of 5 separate written information sheets concerning diagnosis, symptoms, and treatment of CD. The intervention group participated in 10 sessions of ‘coeliac school’ where they were educated about coeliac disease and the GFD. Both groups were assessed at the termination of treatment at 10 weeks, and at a 6 month follow-up. Gastrointestinal symptoms were assessed using a gastrointestinal symptom rating scale (GSRS). All participants had followed a GFD for a minimum of 5 years. 7.2.3.2 Specialised education, behavioural modification, and cognitive behavioural therapy intervention to improve GFD adherence One study of 1 total of 189 adults with a biopsy-confirmed diagnosis of CD were randomised to an interactive online multicomponent education and cognitive behavioural therapy intervention (n=101), or a wait-list control group (n=88). Both groups were assessed at the termination of treatment at 6 weeks, and at 6 months follow-up. Dietary adherence to the GFD was assessed using a standardised coeliac dietary adherence questionnaire (CDAQ). The risk ratio presented here was calculated using the number of event data presented in the paper. All participants had been following a GFD for >3 months. 7.2.3.3 Specialised psychological support counselling to improve GFD adherence One study (Addolorato e al., 2004) of a total of 66 adults with a recent biopsy-confirmed diagnosis of CD, state of anxiety, and current depression were randomised to psychological support (n=33), or a wait-list control group (n=33).
