Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


due to various social reasons and not wanting to be excluded or feel different from their peers. In these circumstances, dietetic input and psychological support counselling can be particularly useful. Self-care testing was discussed at length by the group, who felt that a recommendation should be made about these kinds of tests, as many people conduct them at home and need to know what they should do following a positive result. Trade-off The group agreed that there is little quantitative evidence that shows between the benefit of dietetic involvement in coeliac disease, although it is benefits and recognised by both healthcare professionals and the people with harms coeliac disease themselves to be very useful in order to improve adherence and resolve any outstanding symptoms of CD. The group discussed the utility of psychological support for people Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for information and support related to coeliac disease with coeliac disease in order to improve health-related quality of life and the patient experience of the condition. It was discussed whether a general clinical psychologist or counsellor. It was agreed that depression and anxiety are always treated within the context in which necessary to resolve these problems. A dietitian can also provide useful input in terms of solutions to different social situations that may cause difficulty or embarrassments in relation to the gluten-free diet. Economic Economic evidence was not considered as part of this question. considerations Quality of The evidence for this question ranged from low quality RCT’s to high evidence quality qualitative studies within a modified GRADE framework. The group agreed that the evidence from the RCT’s on educational and psychological interventions was insufficient to base recommendations on, as it was inconclusive and mostly of poor quality. The qualitative evidence from both interview and survey study designs was agreed to provide useful evidence to inform the patient- perspective of self-management, which formed the basis of the recommendations made for this question. Other The group raised the importance of gluten free meal provisions in considerations schools and pre-schools in helping children and adolescents to adhere to the gluten-free diet. Making sure that people with coeliac disease and their family and carers were aware of gluten free food prescriptions was also raised by the group as an important consideration. Self-care testing was discussed at length by the group, who felt that it was difficult to interpret and act
