Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


prescriptions was also raised by the group as an important consideration. Self-care testing was discussed at length by the group, who felt that it was difficult to interpret and act on results from these. People who received a positive result through self-care testing will often exclude gluten from their diet, which means that both further serological testing in an NHS setting and endoscopic intestinal biopsy to confirm diagnosis will be inaccurate unless gluten is reintroduced. The group also discussed the dangers of people obtaining false-negative results when using self-testing kits and the serious long-term health consequences that could arise from this. 7.2.7 Recommendations & research recommendations 28. Give people with coeliac disease (and their family members or carers, where appropriate) sources of information on the disease, including national and local specialist coeliac groups and dietitians with a specialist knowledge in coeliac disease. 29. A healthcare professional with a specialist knowledge of coeliac disease should tell people with a confirmed diagnosis of coeliac disease (and their family Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for information and support related to coeliac disease members or carers where appropriate) about the importance of a gluten-free diet and give them information to help them follow it. This should include:  information on which types of food contain gluten and suitable alternatives, including gluten-free substitutes  explanations of food labelling  information sources about gluten-free diets, recipe ideas and cookbooks  how to manage social situations, eating out and travelling away from home, including travel abroad  avoiding cross contamination in the home and minimising the risk of accidental gluten intake when eating out  the role of national and local coeliac support groups. 30. Be aware that people with coeliac disease may experience anxiety and depression. Diagnose and manage these issues in line with the following NICE guidelines:  Depression in adults with a chronic physical health problem  Depression in children and young people  Generalised anxiety disorder and panic disorder (with or without agoraphobia) in adults.  Social anxiety disorder Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for information and support related to coeliac disease 7.3 Evidence for advice on dietary management 7.3.1 Review question a) What dietary management strategy/advice should be given to people with coeliac disease? b) Should the advice include avoiding gluten-free oats as part of the exclusion diet? symptoms in a small minority of individuals with
