Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


should be given to people with coeliac disease? b) Should the advice include avoiding gluten-free oats as part of the exclusion diet? symptoms in a small minority of individuals with coeliac disease. Oats are however, often processed in the same environment as gluten-containing products such as wheat, barley, and rye, which means that they may be at risk of contamination by these other products. Gluten free oats ensure that the oats were produced in an environment that does not manufacture any gluten-containing products, excluding any contamination risk. The aim of this review question was to determine which dietary management strategy/advice, other than gluten-free diet (GFD), should be given to people with coeliac disease. The first part of this question was designed to investigate the clinical efficacy dietary management or strategies, including the use of nutritional supplements as additional (adjunctive) dietary intervention to the GFD. The nutritional supplements included in the review protocol (agreed by the GDG) were calcium, vitamin D, vitamin B-12, iron and folic acid. The second part of the question was designed to investigate whether gluten-free oats should be part of the exclusion diet (including the thresholds/volume for oats intake) for people with coeliac disease. For full details of the review protocol see Appendix C. 7.3.2 Methods A systematic search was conducted (see Appendix C) which identified 3274 references. After removing duplicates the references were screened on their titles and abstracts and full papers of 79 references were obtained and reviewed against the inclusion and exclusion criteria in the review protocol (Appendix C). Sixty nine studies were excluded as they did not meet the eligibility criteria such as inappropriate study design (case series), not a primary study (descriptive narrative, opinions, etc.) or studies that simply looked at prevalence of nutritional deficiencies (but not the benefits of taking nutritional supplements). A detailed list of excluded studies and reasons for their exclusion is provided in Appendix G. The 10 remaining published papers did meet the eligibility criteria and were included. Data was extracted into detailed evidence tables (see Appendix D) and are summarised below. These ten publications contributed to a total of 4 separate RCT’s. The overall quality of the evidence from these RCTs (10 publications) was of low to very low quality due methodological issues such as methods of randomisation not reported and no intention-to-treat analysis. Overall, most trials only had 12-month follow up period and there was also
