Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


very low quality due methodological issues such as methods of randomisation not reported and no intention-to-treat analysis. Overall, most trials only had 12-month follow up period and there was also a lack of evidence on quality of life outcomes or GI symptoms outcomes as most included studies only reported serological or histological outcomes. As all of the serological and histological outcomes were reported using different measurements or metrics with different length of follow-up periods, meta-analyses on individual outcomes were not appropriate. However, the evidence was synthesised using the GRADE methodology. For dichotomous outcomes where relative risk and 95% confidence intervals were available, the default MIDs of 0.75 and 1.25 were used to assess imprecision. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for information and support related to coeliac disease For continuous outcomes, the optimal information size (> 400 participants) was used to assess imprecision (as currently there is no guidance on default MIDs for various continuous measure e.g. mean change from baseline, median with range, etc.). For the full GRADE profiles please see Appendix E. 7.3.3 Evidence review 7.3.3.1 The benefits and harms of including nutritional supplements as adjuvant therapy to the GFD in adults One RCT (65 adults; intervention n=33; comparator n=32; age range 45 - 64 years) investigated the use of nutritional supplements where the trial compared a daily dose of 0.8 mg folic acid, 0.5 mg cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) and 3 mg pyridoxine (vitamin B-6) for 6 months (with GFD) to placebo tablets (with GFD). All participants had been following a GFD for > 8 years. 7.3.3.2 The benefits and harms of including gluten free oats in the GFD in children Three published papers from 1 RCT investigated the benefits and harms of gluten-free oats in children (total n = 116; intervention n=57; comparator n=59; mean age 6.5 years). This RCT with multiple publications (at different time points) compared GFD with oats (a daily oat intake of 25–50g) to GFD only. There was also one additional RCT (N=171; intervention =75; comparator n=96; mean age 9 years) that compared 6 months on a gluten-free diet with the addition of purified oats or placebo. In this crossover trial, all participants experienced both diets (with or without the addition of oats) with a 3 month washout period in between trials. 7.3.3.3 The benefits and harms of including gluten free oats in the GFD in adults Four published papers from
