Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


of oats) with a 3 month washout period in between trials. 7.3.3.3 The benefits and harms of including gluten free oats in the GFD in adults Four published papers from 1 RCT investigated the benefits and harms of gluten-free oats in adults (total n = 63 intervention n=35; comparator n=28; mean age 45 years). This RCT with multiple publications (at different time points) compared GFD with oats (a daily oat intake of 50–70g) to GFD only. There was also 1 additional separate RCT (N = 39 adults; intervention n=23; comparator n=16; mean age 47 years) that compared GFD with oats (a daily oat intake of 50g) to GFD only. 7.3.4 Health economic evidence An economic evaluations filter was applied to the search protocol for this research question with the aim of finding economic evaluations that examined the cost effectiveness of different dietary management strategies (including the inclusion or exclusion of oats) in people with refractory coeliac disease. The search identified 113 references. The references were screened on their titles and abstracts and none of the studies met the inclusion criteria. No cost–utility or cost-effectiveness analyses were found to address selection criteria. 7.3.5 Evidence statements 7.3.5.1 The benefits and harms of gluten-free oats in children 7.3.5.1.1 Serological outcomes: Low quality evidence form a single study with small sample size on newly diagnosed children with CD suggested that, there were no statistical significant differences in the number of children who were tested IgA EMA positive and TGA positive, and who reached nitric oxide (NO) metabolites threshold of 1406 µM, between the GFD-oats group and the standard GFD Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for information and support related to coeliac disease group at 12-month. The same RCT also suggested that there were no statistical significant differences in the median IgA and IgG anti-avenin antibodies at 12-months. Subgroup analyses also suggested that there were no statistical significant differences between the newly diagnosed children with CD in the GFD-oats group (consumed GF-oats ≥8g daily) and those in the standard GFD group in the number of children who tested IgA EMA positive and TGA positive at 12-months. 7.3.5.1.2 Histological outcomes: Low quality evidence from a single studies with small sample size suggested that there were no difference in mean IEL count (per 100 enterocytes) at 12-months between newly diagnosed children with CD in the GFD-oats and those in the standard GFD group at
