Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


The GDG discussed and agreed that currently there was very limited of different evidence on the critical outcomes such quality of life measures and Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for information and support related to coeliac disease outcomes growth for children. The GDG further discussed that GI symptoms, serological outcomes and histological outcomes may not necessarily be associated with each other for example, people with villous atrophy could be symptom free or vice versa. Nutritional supplements The GDG agreed that the psychological general wellbeing (PGWB) scale reported in the 1 RCT was the critical outcome. However, the other reported outcome in the study, the B-vitamin marker P-tHcy (µmol ⁄ l) was of limited utility as the marker could not distinguish which vitamin B was associated with the effect estimates. Also, the GDG pointed out that the trial had very short follow-up (6-months) considering coeliac disease is a long-term condition. The benefits and harms of gluten-free oats In the absence of high quality evidence on the critical outcomes (QoL measures and growth for children), the GDG agreed that all 3 other important outcomes ( GI symptoms, serological outcomes and histological outcomes) should be given equal weight as they do not necessary correlate to each other. The GDG also pointed out, out of the 3 RCTs on gluten-free oats, only 1 trial had follow-up of up to 5-years (in adults); the other was only up to 12-month or less. Trade-off Nutritional supplements between benefits and As there was only one trial with very small sample size, and the critical harms outcome (PGWB scale) suggested no significant difference between the two groups, the GDG felt that they could not make a positive recommendation on the use of nutritional supplements on top of gluten- free diet (GFD). The GDG also further discussed the potential harms of overdosing on over-the-counter vitamin-D, calcium and iron if inappropriate information was given to people with coeliac disease. Hence, the GDG agreed that healthcare professionals should advise people with coeliac disease not to self-medicate with over-the-counter vitamins or minerals supplements without first having a discussion with a member of their healthcare team. Nevertheless, the GDG acknowledged that some people with coeliac disease may need additional nutritional supplements alongside their normal diet, particular during the early stages following diagnosis. However, the GDG agreed that this should be identified through appropriate ongoing monitoring based on individuals’ need and
