Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


supplements alongside their normal diet, particular during the early stages following diagnosis. However, the GDG agreed that this should be identified through appropriate ongoing monitoring based on individuals’ need and supplementations should not be initiated without a full assessment from the healthcare professional team including the dietitian. The benefits and harms of oats The GDG discussed the evidence and agreed that all the evidence did not suggest any significant harms from consuming gluten-free oats in the vast majority of adults (newly diagnosed or in remission) and children (newly diagnosed) with coeliac disease. The group discussed avenin, which may cause symptoms in a small minority of individuals Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for information and support related to coeliac disease with coeliac disease. Gluten free oats ensure that the oats were produced in an environment that does not manufacture any gluten- containing products; excluding any contamination risk. The evidence suggested that there were no significant differences on GI symptoms, serological and histological outcomes between the GFD with oats group and the standard GFD group. Based on the GDG’s experiences and knowledge, the GDG also noted the potential benefits of including gluten-free oats in the standard GFD, such as, to improve adherence (due to improved variety and palatability of food) as well as to improve daily essential nutrients intake through diet. Hence, the GDG agreed that gluten-free oats can be included at any stage of the person’s dietary plan depending on the person’s preferences. Nevertheless, the GDG acknowledged that out of the 4 included RCTs, only 1 trial had follow-up data up to 5 years while the other trials were only up to 12 months or less. Due to this reason, the GDG agreed that of people who chose to consume gluten-free oats was crucial, and that advice on whether they should continue their consumption of gluten- free oats on a long-term basis or not should be based on the monitored by the healthcare professionals. Economic No economic evidence was found to address this question. considerations Quality of The GDG discussed and agreed that the evidence were of low to very evidence low quality due methodological issues such as methods of randomisation not reported, small sample size and no intention-to-treat analysis. However, the GDG agreed that the evidence on gluten-free oats did consistently suggest the same direction of effects estimates. Nevertheless, the GDG felt it was important to have
