Internal Clinical Guidelines Team
KEYWORDS: disease, coeliac, coeliac disease, evidence, iga, study, quality, people, studies, testing, serological, children, ttg, adults, specificity


intention-to-treat analysis. However, the GDG agreed that the evidence on gluten-free oats did consistently suggest the same direction of effects estimates. Nevertheless, the GDG felt it was important to have further longer follow-up research with bigger sample sizes, particularly on the use of nutritional supplements as an additional intervention to GFD. 7.3.7 Recommendations & research recommendations 7.3.7.1 Recommendations 31. Advise people with coeliac disease (and their family members or carers, where appropriate) to seek advice from a member of their healthcare team if they are thinking about taking over-the-counter vitamin or mineral supplements. 32. Explain to people with coeliac disease (and their family members or carers, where appropriate) that they may need to take specific supplements such as calcium or vitamin D if their dietary intake is insufficient. 33. Explain to people with coeliac disease (and their family or carers, where appropriate) that:  they can choose to include gluten-free oats in their diet at any stage and Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease Evidence for information and support related to coeliac disease  they will be advised whether to continue eating gluten-free oats 7.3.7.2 Research recommendation 7. Should people with coeliac disease be offered calcium and vitamin D supplements for a specific time period soon after their initial diagnosis? Why this is important People with coeliac disease are at an increased risk of malabsorption of key nutrients such as calcium and vitamin D. This is because of the role gluten plays in preventing these nutrients from being properly absorbed. It is not known how long the body takes to properly absorb these vitamins and minerals once a gluten-free diet is started. It is also not known whether the majority of people diagnosed with coeliac disease have enough calcium and vitamin D in their diet, or whether some people with coeliac disease are able to get enough of these nutrients from what they eat. Answering this research question will help healthcare professionals to understand whether calcium and vitamin D should be offered to everyone at the time of diagnosis and for how long these vitamin and mineral supplements should be taken. Internal Clinical Guidelines Team 2015 Coeliac disease
