Guidelines
KEYWORDS: cid, cpps, pain, symptoms, cbp, treatment, patients, management, cbp cpps, table, prostatitis, considered, level, chronic, patient


Diagnosis and treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome: a consensus guideline † ‡ Jon Rees, Mark Abrahams*, Andrew Doble and Alison Cooper for the Prostatitis Expert Reference Group (PERG) ‡ Objectives individual symptom pattern. Options for first-line treatment include antibiotics, a-adrenergic antagonists (if voiding LUTS To improve awareness and recognition of chronic bacterial are present) and simple analgesics. Repeated use of prostatitis (CBP) and chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain antibiotics, such as quinolones, should be avoided if there is syndrome (CP/CPPS) among non-specialists and patients. To no obvious symptomatic benefit from infection control or provide guidance to healthcare professionals treating patients cultures do not support an infectious cause. Early use of settings. To promote efficient referral of care between non- treatments targeting neuropathic pain and/or referral to specialist services should be considered for patients who do specialists and specialists and the involvement of the not respond to initial measures. An MDT approach multidisciplinary team (MDT). Patients and Methods physiotherapists, general practitioners, cognitive behavioural The guideline population were men with CBP or CP/CPPS recommended. Patients should be fully informed about the (persistent or recurrent symptoms and no other urogenital pathology for ≥3 of the previous 6 months). Consensus possible underlying causes and treatment options, including an explanation of the chronic pain cycle. recommendations for the guidelines were based on a search to identify literature on the diagnosis and management of Conclusion CBP and CP/CPPS (published between 1999 and February Chronic prostatitis can present with a wide variety of signs 2014). A Delphi panel process was used where high-quality, and symptoms. Identification of individual symptom patterns published evidence was lacking. and a symptom-based treatment approach are recommended. Results Further research is required to evaluate management options for CBP and CP/CPPS. CBP and CP/CPPS can present with a wide range of clinical manifestations. The four main symptom domains are Keywords urogenital pain, lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS – guidelines, chronic bacterial prostatitis, chronic prostatitis voiding or storage symptoms), psychological issues and sexual with chronic pelvic pain syndrome, prostatitis dysfunction. Patients should be managed according to their Introduction chronic bacterial prostatitis (CBP; NIH category II) and chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS; Prostatitis is a common condition, with 35–50% of men NIH category III). Despite having a significant negative reported to be affected by symptoms suggesting prostatitis impact on patients’ quality of life (QoL) and presenting during their lifetime .
