Guidelines
KEYWORDS: cid, cpps, pain, symptoms, cbp, treatment, patients, management, cbp cpps, table, prostatitis, considered, level, chronic, patient


presentation, other concerns or differential psychosocial screening. diagnoses, including urological cancers and infertility, ©2015TheAuthors BJUInternationalpublishedbyJohnWiley&SonsLtdonbehalfofBJUInternational 513 Guidelines terazosin and silodosin) in CBP or CP/CPPS found significant Box3Psychosocialassessment. reductions in symptoms and/or improvement in QoL scores Validatedquestionnaires (Table 5). These findings have contributed to widespread use usr_doc/PHQ2.pdf)–atwo-itemquestionnairetoassessthefrequencyof significance has been questioned . depressedmoodoverthepast2weeks (cid:129) PatientHealthQuestionnaire-9(PHQ-9, English.pdf)–anine-itemquestionnairetoassessthefrequencyofdepressed Recommendations moodoverthepast2weeks (cid:129) GeneralisedAnxietyDisorder-7(GAD-7, (cid:129) a-adrenergic antagonists may have a modest treatment English.pdf)–aseven-itemquestionnairetoassesstheseverityofgeneralised anxietydisorderoverthepast2weeks. effect regarding total, urinary symptom, pain and QoL (cid:129) HospitalAnxietyandDepressionScale(HADS) scores in CBP and CP/CPPS, and should be considered as an initial treatment option (Level 1). Initialpresentationquestions Anxietyscreeningquestions:Inthelastmonth,haveyouoftenbeenbotheredby: There is a lack of evidence to inform best practice for the use (cid:129) of these agents and the Delphi panel process was used to Feelingnervous,anxiousoronedge? (cid:129) Notbeingabletostoporcontrolworrying? reach a consensus. Depressionscreeningquestions:Inthelastmonth,haveyouoftenbeenbotheredby: (cid:129) (cid:129) Feelingdown,depressedorhopeless? Recommendations (Level 5) Havinglittleinterestorpleasureindoingthings? (cid:129) Treatment with a-adrenergic antagonists should be Questionsfortreatment-refractorypatients considered in patients who present with significant Lifeeventscreeningquestions: voiding LUTS (e.g. slow urinary flow, hesitancy). (cid:129) Haveyourecentlyundergoneanymajorlifeevents;e.g.movinghouse,divorce, (cid:129) IfnorelieffromvoidingLUTSorothersymptomsofCBP bereavementorchangeofjob/career? orCP/CPPSisachievedwithin4–6 weeks,treatment Traumaandabusescreeningquestions: shouldbestoppedandadifferentpharmacotherapy (cid:129) Whengrowingup,ormorerecently,haveanyrelationshipsbeendifficultor considered.Patientsshouldbereferredtospecialistcareif havesituationshappenedthatyouhavefoundyourselfuncomfortablewith? otherapproacheshavebeenexhausted. (cid:129) Due to the adverse side-effect profiles of this class of drugs, consider offering uroselective a-adrenergic antagonists (e.g. tamsulosin, alfuzosin and silodosin) as should be discussed with the patient to establish a full first-line treatment in patients with CBP and CP/CPPS patient history and help inform future investigations. who present with voiding LUTS (Level 5). (cid:129) When diagnostic tests for a bacterial cause have been confirmed, the results need to be clearly communicated Antibiotics to the patient, who must be informed of both positive and negative results of diagnostic tests and implications A wide spectrum of microbial strains may cause infection in for future treatment. CBP (Box 4) . Despite the widespread use of antibiotics in (cid:129) Patients should be informed of the underlying causes of patients with CBP and CP/CPPS, evidence to support their CBP and CP/CPPS to help improve their understanding. use in these populations is relatively weak. Ciprofloxacin, This may include an explanation of basic pelvic anatomy, levofloxacin, azithromycin, doxycycline, and clarithromycin the chronic pain cycle, and potential routes for pain are reported to be effective in eradicating infection and/or (neuropathic vs nociceptive). improving symptoms in CBP, although there is a lack of prospective, head-to-head placebo-controlled trials to guide Reliablesourcesforpatientinformationincludethoseavailable choice of agent (Table 5). Table 6 summarises key throughtheProstateCancerUKwebsite(AppendixS2). features of the different antibiotic classes. The quinolones (e.g. ciprofloxacin and levofloxacin) are considered
