Guidelines
KEYWORDS: cid, cpps, pain, symptoms, cbp, treatment, patients, management, cbp cpps, table, prostatitis, considered, level, chronic, patient


Tricyclic Amitriptyline 10mginevening 50–75mgin Sedation,drymouth,blurred (Level5) antidepressants/ evening vision,urinaryretention, Manypatientsobtainpainreliefat SNRIs constipation,postural lowerdose hypotension,weightgain Duloxetine 30mginevening 60–120mgQD Nausea,sedation,insomnia, (Level5) (orinmorning, headache,dizziness,dry Lesssedating.Maycauseinsomniain ifinsomnia) mouth,constipation somepatients BID,twicedaily(bisindie);QD,once-daily(quaquedie);SNRI,serotonin-noradrenaline(knownintheUSAasnorepinephrine)reuptakeinhibitor;TID,threetimesdaily(terindie). (cid:129) In patients with early-stage CBP or CP/CPPS, use of noted in small studies with finasteride (Table 5) and also a opioids for pain management should be avoided, due to larger study with dutasteride in older patients with prostatitis- the risk of dependency. like pain or syndrome who were judged to be at risk of (cid:129) If pain is considered to be neuropathic in origin, prostate cancer [PSA level of >2.5 ng/mL (aged 50–60 years) treatment with a gabapentinoid (e.g. pregabalin or or >3.0 ng/mL (aged >60 years)] . As noted in the full nortriptyline or trimipramine) or a selective serotonin- men , there is a larger body of RCT evidence for use of noradrenaline (known in the USA as norepinephrine) 5a-reductase inhibitors to treat LUTS in men with BPE reuptake inhibitor (SNRI; e.g. duloxetine) is warranted (Appendix S2). (Table 7). Recommendation 5a-reductase inhibitors (cid:129) There is insufficient evidence to warrant recommending Evidence for the use of 5a-reductase inhibitors in CP/CPPS is 5a-reductase inhibitors as monotherapy in CP/CPPS, very limited. Some improvements in symptomology were unless co-existing BPE is present (Level 2). ©2015TheAuthors 518 BJUInternationalpublishedbyJohnWiley&SonsLtdonbehalfofBJUInternational DiagnosisandtreatmentofCBPandCP/CPPS Combined/multimodal therapy Pain management Using multiple interventions to target different symptom With any pain condition, delayed recovery can lead to areas simultaneously may be expected to provide a more chronicity, compromised physical function and development beneficial approach than monotherapy. The treatment of psychosocial sequelae. If neuropathic pain is suspected, this combination most frequently evaluated has been that of a- should be addressed with consideration of pharmacological blocker and antibiotic therapy. Data are limited, with strategies as already outlined above (Table 7). conflicting findings (Table 5). The Delphi panel approach was, therefore used to reach a consensus. Recommendations (PERG) (cid:129) When pain is severe and refractory to the treatments Recommendation (Delphi panel) outlined in Table 7, or is significantly impairing the (cid:129) Multimodal/combined therapy should be uniquely patient’s lifestyle and ability to participate in daily history, physical examination and investigations. considered (Level 5). Depending on the symptoms at presentation, the The role of the pain service is to provide a multidisciplinary following may be considered for adding to first-line assessment of the patient and formulate an individualised antibiotic therapy (all Level 5). therapeutic management plan combining treatment of pain,
