NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: pmid, pubmed pmid, pubmed, liver, terazosin, alt, hepatotoxicity, alpha-, adrenergic, hypertension, prostatic, agents, alfuzosin, alpha- adrenergic, benign prostatic


tamsulosin (Flomax: 2007) and silodosin (Rapaflo: 2008). The selective agents have the potential of reducing bladder neck tone with less risk of hypotension. All of the alpha-1 adrenergic receptor antagonists are associated with a minimal rate of serum enzyme elevations during chronic therapy (0.2% to 2%). These elevations are almost always mild-to-moderate in severity, self- antagonists have been associated with rare instances of clinically apparent acute liver injury, but reported cases have been self-limiting and not associated with acute liver failure or chronic liver injury. Alfuzosin has been linked to the most reported cases, and several of the alpha-1 adrenergic antagonists have not been linked to any cases in the literature. Thus, clinically apparent liver injury from these agents is uncommon and severe hepatotoxicity is exceeding rare, if it occurs at all. 2 LiverTox The alpha-1 adrenergic antagonists are discussed individually, but the references on their safety and hepatotoxicity are given together after this introductory section. Alpha-blockers used to treat hypertension: • Doxazosin • Prazosin • Terazosin • Antihypertensive Agents Alpha-blockers used to treat benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH): • Alfuzosin • Doxazosin • Silodosin • Tamsulosin • Terazosin • Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy Agents ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 08 January 2018 Zimmerman HJ. Cardiovascular agents. In, Zimmerman HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1999, pp. 623-5. (Expert review of hepatotoxicity published in 1999; mentions that alpha-adrenergic blocking agents [prazosin] have little identified involvement in hepatic injury). De Marzio DH, Navarro VJ. Hepatotoxicity of cardiovascular and antidiabetic medications. In, Kaplowitz N, DeLeve LD, eds. Drug-induced liver disease. 3rd ed. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 2013, pp. 519-40. (Review of hepatotoxicity of antihypertensive agents does not discuss alpha-adrenergic receptor blockers). Knollman BC, eds. Goodman & Gilman’s the pharmacological basis of therapeutics. 12th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2011, pp. 745-88. (Textbook of pharmacology and therapeutics mentions that the alpha-1 receptor antagonists are used primarily in conjunction with diuretics, beta-blockers or other antihypertensive agents). Goodman & Gilman’s the pharmacological basis of therapeutics. 12th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2011, pp. 277-334. (Textbook of pharmacology and therapeutics mentions that the clinical response to alph-adrenergic blockade is dictated not only by their direct effects but also by the reflex homeostatic adjustments to these initial effects). Sperzel WD, Glassman HN, Jordan DC, Luther RR. Overall safety of terazosin as an antihypertensive agent. Am J Med 1986; 80: 77-81. PubMed PMID: 2872812.
