HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 23. Published in final edited form as: Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2021 April 20; 107: 110209. doi:10.1016/ j.pnpbp.2020.110209. Psychological comorbidity in gastrointestinal diseases: Update on the brain-gut-microbiome axis Hannibal Person, MDa,b,*, Laurie Keefer, PhDa Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA New York, NY, USA Abstract The high comorbidity of psychological disorders in both functional and organic gastrointestinal diseases suggests the intimate and complex link between the brain and the gut. Termed the brain-gut axis, this bidirectional communication between the central nervous system and enteric nervous system relies on immune, endocrine, neural, and metabolic pathways. There is increasing evidence that the gut microbiome is a key part of this system, and dysregulation of the brain-gut­ microbiome axis (BGMA) has been implicated in disorders of brain-gut interaction, including irritable bowel syndrome, and in neuropsychiatric disorders, including depression, Alzheimer’s disease, and autism spectrum disorder. Further, alterations in the gut microbiome have been implicated in the pathogenesis of organic gastrointestinal diseases, including inflammatory bowel disease. The BGMA is an attractive therapeutic target, as using prebiotics, probiotics, or postbiotics to modify the gut microbiome or mimic gut microbial signals could provide novel treatment options to address these debilitating diseases. However, despite significant review current understanding of the comorbidity of gastrointestinal diseases and psychological disorders. We will also review the current evidence supporting the key role of the BGMA in this management of psychological and gastrointestinal disorders. Keywords Functional gastrointestinal disorders; Disorder of the brain-gut axis; Brain-gut-microbiome axis; Irritable bowel syndrome; Inflammatory bowel disease; Psychological treatments 1. Introduction While traditional dualistic models of human health separated the activities of the mind from the body, there is now an understanding of the close interconnectivity between these * Corresponding author. (H. Person). Declaration of Competing Interest None to declare. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript two entities (Mehta, 2011). Instead of dualism, human disease is best understood through a biopsychosocial model, which assesses the reciprocal interactions and significance of biological, environmental, and psychological factors (Engel, 1980). Gastrointestinal diseases provide a useful application for the biopsychosocial model, particularly due to our growing knowledge of the brain-gut-microbiome axis (BGMA) (Drossman, 1996). This system of bidirectional communication between the central nervous system (CNS) and enteric nervous system (ENS) is influenced by the gut microbiome and relies on immune, endocrine, neural, and metabolic pathways
