HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


system of bidirectional communication between the central nervous system (CNS) and enteric nervous system (ENS) is influenced by the gut microbiome and relies on immune, endocrine, neural, and metabolic pathways . The BGMA maintains gut homeostasis, and its dysregulation has been implicated in numerous gastrointestinal diseases, most notably disorders of gut-brain interaction (DGBI) (H. R. Mertz, 2003). This circular communication loop connecting the mind and the body provides a physiologic rationale for the interpretation of gastrointestinal illness within the biopsychosocial model . It is a common misconception that psychological concerns in gastrointestinal diseases only relate to DGBI, including irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and functional dyspepsia (FD), or only occur as an adjustment reaction to physical illness (Wu, 2012). Psychological symptoms are common in patients with DGBI and are believed to be part of the genesis and maintenance of these disorders (Van Oudenhove et al., 2016). However, there is a growing body of literature suggesting significant and persistent psychological comorbidity, particularly mood disorders, in organic gastrointestinal disorders, including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), celiac disease (CeD), and eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) (Cossu et al., 2017; Neuendorf et al., 2016; Reed et al., 2020). This underscores the importance of considering psychological factors in the evaluation and management of all gastrointestinal diseases. Having a physical illness, being symptomatic, and requiring treatment can be distressing in itself, promoting distorted thinking, maladaptive coping, and mood disturbance. The possibility of perturbations of the BGMA in these diseases altering bottom­ up signaling and contributing to physiological concerns is intriguing but poorly understood. Numerous studies have demonstrated the adverse impact of psychological comorbidity in a host of medical conditions, including IBD, diabetes, and heart disease (W. K. Davis et al., 1988; Gracie et al., 2016; Lazzarino et al., 2013). The negative consequences of psychological comorbidity can be indirect such as when a patient with diabetes and depression suffers complications after not taking their insulin due to feelings of hopelessness and amotivation. However, the BGMA demonstrates how psychological factors can also directly influence gastrointestinal disease through top-down signaling. There is evidence that psychological concerns directly affect both functional and organic gastrointestinal disorders, including both symptoms and inflammation in IBD (Araki et al., 2020; Gracie et al., 2018; Sexton et al., 2017; Van Oudenhove et al., 2016). While significant advances have been made recently in our understanding of the BGMA and how it relates to psychological and gastrointestinal disease, most of this
