HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


Van Oudenhove et al., 2016). While significant advances have been made recently in our understanding of the BGMA and how it relates to psychological and gastrointestinal disease, most of this research is modifying the gut microbiome to treat gastrointestinal and neuropsychiatric disease have been raised. For this reason, better understanding of this relationship is essential to expand available treatment modalities. In this article, within the context of the BGMA, we review psychological comorbidity in gastrointestinal disease. We will discuss the management Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript of psychological disease in gastrointestinal disorders, including the current evidence for treatments targeting the BGMA. 2. The brain-gut-microbiome-axis 2.1. A brief overview of the gut-microbiome The gut microbiome represents a highly complex microbial community comprised of bacteria, fungi, archaea, viruses, and protozoa. Humans have evolved with these microbes, creating symbiotic ecosystems that change in response to host physiology (Lloyd-Price et al., 2016). An individual’s gut microbiome is made up of 104 bacteria in a 1.3:1 ratio to their somatic cells . The vast majority of gut microbes are bacteria, with Firmicutes, Bacteriodetes, and Actinobacteria being the three major bacterial phylae and representing over 90% of intestinal microorganisms (Jandhyala et al., 2015; Tap et al., 2009). Numerous genetic, geographical, and environmental factors shape an individual’s microbiome, and there is evidence the gut begins to become colonized in utero (De Filippo et al., 2010; Stinson et al., 2019; Yatsunenko et al., 2012). It continues to develop and is subject to dynamic changes until stabilizing at three years-of-age (Backhed et al., 2015; Yatsunenko et al., 2012). There is evidence that far more modest alterations to the gut microbiome can continue to occur throughout the lifespan, including with enteric infections, antibiotics, and changes in diet (Guarner and Malagelada, 2003). The gut microbiome is thought to be a crucial part of protecting the gut from pathogens and maintaining the integrity of the intestinal mucosal barrier (Ohland and Macnaughton, 2010; Zhu et al., 2020). Perturbations in the gut microbiome are believed to be part of the pathogenesis of various gastrointestinal diseases, including IBD and IBS as well as influencing metabolism and contributing to obesity (C. D. Davis, 2016; Quigley, 2018; Zuo and Ng, 2018). 2.2. Brain-gut-microbiome signaling The BGMA represents the bidirectional communication between the CNS and ENS, which is influenced by the gut microbiome’s
