HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


D. Davis, 2016; Quigley, 2018; Zuo and Ng, 2018). 2.2. Brain-gut-microbiome signaling The BGMA represents the bidirectional communication between the CNS and ENS, which is influenced by the gut microbiome’s interaction with the ENS as well as through endocrine and immune signaling pathways . The ENS is the intrinsic innervation of the gastrointestinal tract, and has been dubbed the “second brain,” as it is the only part of the peripheral nervous system that contains extensive neural circuits that are capable of local autonomous function to control gut movement, local blood flow, and fluid exchange between the gut and its lumen (Furness et al., 2014; Gershon, 1999). It has been well established the ENS is modulated by the Autonomic Nervous System (ANS) via efferent and afferent vagal parasympathetic and prevertebral sympathetic signaling . In homeostasis, there is no conscious perception of continuous afferent gut-brain signals. However, pain and other pathology that represents a salient noxious stimulation is communicated via visceral afferents and requires a behavioral response (Mayer and Tillisch, 2011). This signaling from the vagal afferents is processed within a homeostatic-afferent network, which then integrates with neurocircuits responsible for both emotional and cognitive response and also sends descending signals to the dorsal horn of the spinal cord where pain is modulated (Urien and Wang, 2019). This modulation can either increase or decrease pain signaling, and abnormal pain inhibitory mechanisms have been observed in IBS . The central integration of visceral Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript input with emotional and cognitive neurocircuits is important in understanding the role of psychological factors in individual visceral pain perception. For example, the presence of dysfunctional cognitions, such as catastrophizing, were shown to independently negatively influence IBS symptom severity and quality of life . Another study, again, demonstrated catastrophizing and also somatization were associated with worsening IBS severity (van Tilburg et al., 2013). These maladaptive psychological constructs are targets for psychotherapeutic interventions, as discussed later. However, it is important to note they are only present in a subset of patients with chronic gastrointestinal illness . Neuroimaging has also supported brain-gut connectivity as well as implicated the gut microbiome in this process. Early imaging studies of patients with both IBS and FD demonstrated greater activation of the homeostatic-afferent network than healthy controls with rectal or gastric distention, respectively (Oudenhove et al., 2010;
