HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


Early imaging studies of patients with both IBS and FD demonstrated greater activation of the homeostatic-afferent network than healthy controls with rectal or gastric distention, respectively (Oudenhove et al., 2010; Tillisch et al., 2011). Additionally, IBS patients showed increased activation of emotional-arousal networks and less activation of modulatory networks, and FD patients showed increased activation of sensory networks. These findings correlate to clinical observations in IBS of increased sympathetic arousal, anxiety, and hypervigilance. Examination of communication between areas of the brain in IBS has suggested upregulated connectivity between emotional-arousal circuitry and also implicated serotonin as a potential modulator of this circuitry (Berman et al., 2002; Labus et al., 2011; Mayer et al., 2015). Functional alterations in regions comprising the default mode network, sensorimotor processing, and salience networks have been observed (Hong et al., 2016; Icenhour et al., 2017; Longarzo et al., 2017; Weng et al., 2017). More recently, characterization of brain circuitry in DGBI has advanced to include network analysis, where large scale structural and functional networks are compared to used to demonstrate differences in microbial subnetworks in IBS patient versus healthy controls, which were associated with structural brain alterations in sensory integration and salience networks . Other studies have linked the gut microbiome with both functional and structural brain changes. Functional magnetic resonance imaging of healthy women who ingested a four week course of fermented milk product demonstrated alteration of brain regions associated with central emotional processing and sensation . Interestingly, two recent studies have linked changes to the gut microbiome profile in IBS patients to both structural and functional neurologic differences (Labus et al., 2017; Tillisch et al., 2017). In one of these studies, women with IBS were grouped based on having a gut microbiome with Bacteriodes abundance or Prevotella abundance, and those with Prevotella abundance showed greater behavioral response to negative emotional stimuli and had less hippocampal activity . There is also increasing evidence as to the importance of the endocrine system in the BGMA, and dysbiosis can lead to the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines, bioactive molecules, and microbial antigens that can activate or attenuate the hypothalamic-pituitary axis (HPA) (Malagelada, 2020; van de Wouw et al., 2018). The HPA, in turn, releases hormones, such as corticotropin releasing factor, adrenocorticotropic hormone, and cortisol, in response to these signals and also stress, and there is some evidence these hormones can further alter gut microbial composition and increase intestinal permeability
