HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


factor, adrenocorticotropic hormone, and cortisol, in response to these signals and also stress, and there is some evidence these hormones can further alter gut microbial composition and increase intestinal permeability (A. J. Park et al., Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 2013). While dysregulation of the HPA axis has been implicated in numerous psychiatric disorders, perturbations in the gut microbiome have also been associated with depression, anxiety, and cognitive changes (Barandouzi et al., 2020; Keller et al., 2017; M. Sun et al., 2020b; Tafet and Nemeroff, 2020). Gut microbiota can interact with the CNS through the bioactive compounds they produce, and the best understood compounds are short chain fatty acids, secondary bile acids, and tryptophan metabolites (Silva et al., 2020; van de Wouw et al., 2018; Yano et al., 2015). These intermediates can interact with enterochromaffin and enteroendocrine cells directly, and in this way are able to participate in bottom-up signaling through stimulating the release of neurotransmitters and hormones (Kidd et al., 2009; Palazzo et al., 2007; Yano et al., 2015). There is also evidence these intermediates can cross the blood brain barrier, though it is not understood whether they reach any specific brain target. The CNS can signal the gut through the release of endocrine mediators that interact with microbes or directly signal via the ANS. This direct signaling can alter gut physiology, including intestinal transit time, fluid secretion, nutrient availability, and intestinal permeability, all affecting bacterial clearance rates (Houlden et al., 2016; Mayer, 2011; Roager et al., 2016). crucial role of the BGMA, and this axis provides an interesting circuit to conceptualize the frequent comorbidity of psychological and gastrointestinal illness. 2.3. The biopsychosocial model and the gut microbiome axis behavior, and personality has interesting implications in the interpretation of gastrointestinal illness within the biopsychosocial model. The biopsychosocial model of illness examines the reciprocal and complex interactions between biological, psychological, and environmental contributors to disease. In this model, gastrointestinal disease can be seen as more than just an isolated pathophysiologic process, but in the context of psychosocial factors that may be key to the genesis and maintenance of the illness. For example, it is well known that early adverse life events (EALs) increase the risk of developing IBS, and the number of EALs experienced and the perceived severity of these EALs further increase this risk
