HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


known that early adverse life events (EALs) increase the risk of developing IBS, and the number of EALs experienced and the perceived severity of these EALs further increase this risk (Bradford et al., 2012; Ju et al., 2020; S. H. Park et al., 2016). Stressful life events are also associated with the exacerbation of IBS symptoms and have even been implicated in causing flaring in IBD (Araki et al., 2020; Bennett et al., 1998; Sexton et al., 2017; Whitehead et al., 1992). Further, DGBI have been associated with patterns of comorbidity, and these cognitive-affective processes can worsen symptom severity and are targets for psychotherapeutic treatment (Lackner et al., 2018; Van Oudenhove et al., 2016). The BGMA’s interaction with the HPA axis and emerging data regarding its influence in neurodevelopment, mood, and cognition provide an interesting context through which to interpret psychopathology in gastrointestinal disease. Several studies have suggested the where gut microbiome composition at 1 year-of-age was associated with cognition at 2 years-of-age (Carlson et al., 2018; Hoban et al., 2016). Mostly preclinical data suggests that Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript throughout the lifespan metabolites produced by the microbiome can influence microglia, the macrophage cells of the CNS that mediate immune response, and this signaling has been implicated in neurodegenerative diseases (M. Sun et al., 2020a; Y. Wang et al., 2018; Zhu et al., 2020). Stress, particularly early life stress has been shown to cause alterations to the HPA axis, and alterations to the HPA axis have been seen in IBS, even in the absence of EALs (S. H. Park et al., 2018; Videlock et al., 2009). As discussed previously, there is evidence to support signaling between the HPA axis and the microbiome, and both dysbiosis and HPA axis dysregulation have been implicated in psychiatric diseases (Misiak et al., 2020). While much of the research surrounding the role of the gut microbiome and mood, the gut microbiome with both temperament in early childhood and adult personality traits (Davidson et al., 2018; K. V. Johnson and Foster, 2018; K. V. A. Johnson, 2020; Sarkar et the microbiome and these neurocognitive outcomes, the BGMA provides a compelling justification for the biopsychosocial model and potential explanation for psychological findings in gastrointestinal diseases. 3. Psychological comorbidity in gastrointestinal diseases 3.1. Disorders of gut-brain interaction Formerly referred to as functional
