HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


justification for the biopsychosocial model and potential explanation for psychological findings in gastrointestinal diseases. 3. Psychological comorbidity in gastrointestinal diseases 3.1. Disorders of gut-brain interaction Formerly referred to as functional gastrointestinal disorders, DGBI are being reclassified to better represent their pathophysiology, which is related to dysbiosis, altered immune function, visceral hypersensitivity, and CNS dysregulation of visceral afferent, descending inhibitory modulation, and gut motility (Drossman and Hasler, 2016). They represent a diverse group of esophageal, gastroduodenal, bowel, centrally mediated, and anorectal disorders, and in a large-scale multinational study more than 40% of respondents to internet and household surveys met criteria for a DGBI . DGBI are associated with lower quality of life, more frequent doctor’s visits, and disability (Cunningham et al., 2017; Koloski et al., 2000; Williams et al., 2006). As discussed previously, psychological concerns are believed to be part of the genesis and maintenance of these disorders as part of the biopsychosocial model. Here we will review the current evidence for psychological comorbidity in specific DGBI as well as the existing data regarding implications for the BGMA. 3.2. Irritable bowel syndrome IBS is a common DGBI with a prevalence of 4–5% of the general population (O. S. Palsson et al., 2020; Sperber et al., 2020). It is marked by abdominal pain, sometimes related to defecation. It is associated with changes in bowel habits, which may include constipation (IBS-C), diarrhea (IBS-D), or alternating constipation and diarrhea (IBS-M). On evaluation there is an absence of biochemical or structural abnormalities to explain these symptoms . Numerous studies have shown the frequent comorbidity of psychological concerns and disorders in IBS, most notably depression and anxiety (Fond et al., 2014; Whitehead et al., 2002). A recent multivariate analysis of 769 IBS patients Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript meeting Rome III criteria, demonstrated 44.9% reported significant anxiety and 25.7% reported significant depression . Their analysis further suggested other factors including non-gastrointestinal symptoms, fatigue, gastrointestinal-specific anxiety, and visceral hypersensitivity separated IBS patients with and without psychological distress, emphasizing the interconnectedness of these factors in determining psychological status. Panic disorder has also been identified in IBS, with some studies suggesting 25–44% of patients with IBS meet criteria for panic disorder (Kaplan et al., 1996; Kumano et al., 2004). A recent systemic review with meta-analysis confirmed that post-traumatic stress disorder is a significant risk
