HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


with IBS meet criteria for panic disorder (Kaplan et al., 1996; Kumano et al., 2004). A recent systemic review with meta-analysis confirmed that post-traumatic stress disorder is a significant risk factor for IBS, though this analysis was limited by significant study heterogeneity . There is little evidence for an association between bipolar disorder and IBS . There is some literature suggesting an increased prevalence of IBS in schizophrenia, with one study finding 19% of patients with schizophrenia assessed in an outpatient primary care setting meeting criteria (Gupta et al., 1997). With regards to substance use disorders, multiple studies have suggested concerning patterns of opiate prescribing to manage gastrointestinal pain, including for DGBIs (Dorn et al., 2011; Kanuri et al., 2015; Sayuk et al., 2018). This is particularly concerning in functional bowel disorders, as chronic opiate use can result in narcotic bowel syndrome. In this condition, hyperalgesia occurs, and pain can result from escalating opiate dosages . Some studies have also suggested an association between IBS and cannabis use disorder, though this should be considered within the context that cannabis is being actively explored as a therapeutic for this disease (Adejumo et al., 2019; R. S. Patel et al., 2020). Beyond formally meeting criteria for a psychological disorder, psychological concerns are often identified in patients with IBS, including distorted thinking patterns (i.e. catastrophizing), illness anxiety, and hypervigilance (Hunt et al., 2009; Van Oudenhove et al., 2016). GI-specific anxiety has been shown to be a significant mediator between general anxiety symptoms and IBS symptom severity . The psychological concerns serve as key contributors to the affective-cognitive aspects of DGBI. For example, a patient who suffers from IBS-D might fixate on the normal sensation of abdominal distention after eating (hypervigilance and worry) and succumb to GI-specific anxiety, having thoughts that their day will be ruined if they develop diarrhea (catastrophizing). They may then decide to stay home and not go to a social event, potentially reinforcing avoidance behaviors and causing other life dysfunction. These behaviors are often the targets of GI specific psychotherapies, like cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), discussed later (Kinsinger, 2017). Somatization, the psychological experience and communication of a somatic symptom, has also been associated with IBS, particularly IBS-M (P. Patel et al., 2015). Somatization may also explain the frequent overlap of IBS with other functional somatic syndromes, like pelvic pain, headaches, and fibromyalgia . psychological comorbidity, and the microbiome. Two recent
