HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


al., 2015). Somatization may also explain the frequent overlap of IBS with other functional somatic syndromes, like pelvic pain, headaches, and fibromyalgia . psychological comorbidity, and the microbiome. Two recent rodent studies involving fecal microbiota transplant (FMT) have shown an association between depression and anxiety behaviors, gut microbiome, and GI symptoms. One study transferred stool from 34 patients with major depression and 33 healthy controls to a microbiota-deficient rat model (Kelly et al., 2016). They noted behavioral changes in the rats consistent with depression and Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript anxiety after FMT, alterations in tryptophan metabolism, and a reduction of richness and alpha diversity of the gut microbiome. In another study, germ-free mice were colonized with fecal microbiota from patients with IBS-D and developed faster gastrointestinal transit, intestinal barrier dysfunction, innate immune activation, and anxiety like behaviors (De signatures in patients with IBS-D and depression, characterizing three groups by high proportions of Bacteroides (type I), Prevotella (type II), or nondominant microbiota (type III) . Patients with depression or IBS-D had 85% and 80% type I or type II, respectively, and colon tissue from patients with types I and II demonstrated higher levels of inflammatory markers than type III. 3.3. Functional dyspepsia Patients with FD experience combinations of post-prandial fullness, early satiety, epigastric pain, and epigastric pain that interfere with usual activities and have no structural or biochemical abnormalities . Studies have suggested varying population prevalence in different areas of the world, with a recent multinational internet and household survey suggesting 7.2% prevalence . While FD was the most common gastroduodenal DGBI, there was a wide variability between countries ranging from 2.2% prevalence in Japan to 12.3% in Egypt in internet surveys. FD is believed to occur through similar mechanisms as IBS, and visceral hypersensitivity causes discomfort with distention of the gastric fundus in the resting or fed states (H. Mertz et al., 1998). Numerous studies have suggested higher rates of anxiety and depression in FD, though estimates of comorbidity vary significantly (Hartono et al., 2012; Li et al., 2002; Oudenhove et al., 2010). In one study in Sweden, 10 year follow up of 887 participants demonstrated anxiety at baseline was associated with new-onset FD, but not depression (Aro et al., 2015). Interestingly, when Fluorine-18-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography­ computed tomography was performed on 40 patients
