HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


participants demonstrated anxiety at baseline was associated with new-onset FD, but not depression (Aro et al., 2015). Interestingly, when Fluorine-18-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography­ computed tomography was performed on 40 patients with FD, increased glucose metabolism abnormalities were noted within the insula, anterior cingulate cortex, middle cingulate cortex, and middle frontal cortex . These abnormalities were positively correlated with subject anxiety and depression scores, implicating psychopathology may affect glucose metabolism in these homeostatic afferent and sensory areas, not simply visceral afferent signaling. Early research has supported the role of dysbiosis in the pathophysiology of FD and suggests through analysis of both stool and gastric aspirates that intestinal dysbiosis may be associated with symptom occurrence . More investigation is not only needed to understand the role of the gut microbiome in FD, but also its implication for psychological comorbidity. 3.4. Functional constipation FC is marked by persistent, difficult, infrequent, or seemingly incomplete defecation . It differs from IBS in that any resulting abdominal discomfort dissipates with resolution of the constipation, while IBS patients continue to suffer from abdominal pain even with normal bowel movements. Anxiety and depression have been found to be more prevalent in several studies of patients with FC (Cheng et al., 2003; Hosseinzadeh et al., 2011). A recent preclinical study implicated serotonin production in Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript the pathogenesis of both constipation and depression . TPH2-R439H mice were used, which lack the gene encoding the rate-limiting enzyme responsible for serotonin production and have a depression phenotype. They were fed either chow with or without 5HTP slow release, which restores serotonin levels in the CNS and reduces depressive behaviors. Mice fed chow without 5HTP slow release retained their depression phenotype and also had abnormalities in ENS development and ENS-mediated GI function, including reduced motility and intestinal epithelial growth. Meanwhile, mice fed 5HTP slow release reversed these findings. The gut microbiome has also been implicated in the pathogenesis of functional constipation, though this has not been related to psychologic comorbidity . 3.5. Other disorders of brain-gut interaction Other DGBI, including esophageal disorders (functional heartburn, globus, reflux hypersensitivity), gastroduodenal disorders (belching disorder, rumination disorder), centrally mediated abdominal pain syndrome, anorectal disorders (fecal incontinence, functional defecation disorders), and childhood disorders (functional abdominal pain, aerophagia), have similarly been found to increase psychological comorbidity with less data available
