HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


mediated abdominal pain syndrome, anorectal disorders (fecal incontinence, functional defecation disorders), and childhood disorders (functional abdominal pain, aerophagia), have similarly been found to increase psychological comorbidity with less data available regarding the role of the BGMA in this process (Absah et al., 2017; Galmiche et al., 2006; Meyer and Richter, 2015). Inflammatory Bowel Disease.—IBD is an organic and immune-mediated inflammatory disorder with a relapsing and remitting course. In the case of ulcerative colitis (UC), inflammation occurs in the colon and is confined to the colonic mucosa. Crohn’s disease (CD) can involve any area of the digestive tract and the inflammation can be transmural. While the prevalence of inflammatory bowel disease is often quoted as being around 1% of the general population, numerous studies have suggested the incidence is rising, including in very young children (Benchimol et al., 2014; GBD 2017 Inflammatory Bowel Disease Collaborators, 2020; Dahlhamer et al., 2016). The overall rate of anxiety symptoms in patients with IBD is 19–35% and depressive symptoms is 27% (Neuendorf et al., 2016; Walker et al., 2008). There is some suggestion rates of depression and anxiety are higher in CD versus UC both in disease remission and during flares . Further, there is increasing evidence to suggest the presence of anxiety and depression can increase the risk of disease recurrence in IBD . Whether comorbid psychological conditions in IBD are the end result of disease burden or a manifestation of a systemic inflammatory process is a subject of active inquiry . Post-traumatic stress disorder has also been associated with CD (Camara, Gander, Begre, von Kanel, and Swiss Inflammatory Bowel Disease Cohort Study, G, 2011; T. H. Taft et al., 2019a). Again, more study is needed to explore this association, as inflammation has been directly implicated in the pathogenesis of PTSD and it is not clear if trauma related to CD, systemic inflammation, or both could lead to PTSD . The BGMA provides a viable link between psychological concerns and IBD, and may suggest that anxiety and depression seen in IBD is not just the result of disease-related burden. Numerous studies of the composition of the gut microbiome, its functional activity, and its metabolome in IBD have suggested aberrations that promote a pro-inflammatory Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript state . Preclinical evidence has implicated dysbiosis in disease development, and
