HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript state . Preclinical evidence has implicated dysbiosis in disease development, and there is even evidence that the gut microbiome can predict response to IBD therapy (Ananthakrishnan et al., 2017; Franzosa et al., 2019; Glassner et al., 2020). Manipulation of the gut microbiome is used to manage IBD, and antibiotics are used as well as fecal diversion. Inflammation has been a target for the management of depression, including the use anti-tumor necrosis factor agents, which are also used to manage IBD (McIntyre et al., 2019; Raison et al., 2013). Unfortunately, use of these agents has only shown limited success, working in a portion of patients with treatment-resistant depression and baseline elevation of c-reactive protein. Vedolizumab, an α4β7 integrin inhibitor which blocks the trafficking of activated lymphocytes to the gut and is used to treat IBD, was shown to reduce depression and anxiety scores and improve sleep quality in a cohort of moderate-to-severe IBD patients . Inflammation related to dysbiosis could result in depression through various pathways including the HPA axis (Iob et al., 2020). Further it has been shown that inflammatory cytokines reduce serotonin through activation of indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase, which metabolizes tryptophan to neurotoxic kynurenine metabolites (Dantzer, 2017). Lastly, studies of depression and the BGMA have suggested potentially direct and indirect signaling from the gut microbiome to the CNS, which could become dysregulated in an inflammatory state (Barandouzi et al., 2020; Lach et al., 2018). Taken together, the BGMA provides an interesting mechanism and therapeutic target for depression observed in IBD. 3.6. Celiac disease CeD is an autoimmune illness where intolerance to gluten leads to both gut and systemic inflammation and a variety of intestinal and extra intestinal manifestations. CeD has a prevalence of 1% in the general population and has a variable clinical presentation that sometimes includes abdominal pain, diarrhea, bloating, and weight loss (Caio et al., 2019; Rubio-Tapia et al., 2012). It is believed to have a multifactorial pathogenesis, including environmental and genetic factors. Microbiome research has suggested possible differences in early life gut microbiome composition between infants at genetic risk for CeD who known neurologic manifestations of celiac disease, which include ataxia, encephalopathy, and seizures . Studies in CeD have suggested elevated reports of depression (14%−68.7%) and anxiety (62.5%−71.4%), though there is significant variability between studies . It is also
