HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


include ataxia, encephalopathy, and seizures . Studies in CeD have suggested elevated reports of depression (14%−68.7%) and anxiety (62.5%−71.4%), though there is significant variability between studies . It is also believed that in CeD, undigested gluten may directly interact with the CNS or cause CNS changes via neuroimmune pathways, providing a mechanism outside of the BGMA for psychopathology (Fasano, 2017). While the BGMA and its role in CeD remains an interesting area of inquiry, more investigation is needed to understand the role of the gut microbiome in the pathogenesis of CeD and comorbid psychological concerns seen in this disease. 3.7. Eosinophilic esophagitis EoE is a chronic allergic inflammatory condition of the esophagus in response to trigger foods. Recent studies of both the esophageal and gut microbiome have suggested possible alterations associated in EoE, and a recent study demonstrated the a relative abundance of Haemophilus in the esophageal microbiome predicted disease severity in a pediatric Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript population (Hiremath et al., 2019; Kashyap et al., 2019). There is a lack of literature on psychological comorbidity in this population, though a recent review of the available adult data suggests 12% of patients report depression and 9.3 % report anxiety . A recent retrospective review of 883 patients showed 23% of patients with anxiety and 17% with depression . More investigation is needed to both understand the extent of psychological comorbidity in this disease and any potential role of the BGMA. 3.8. Gastroparesis Gastroparesis is a condition where there is delayed gastric emptying in the absence of mechanical obstruction of the stomach. It can occur as a result of injury to the vagus nerve, in hypothyroidism, from diabetes, and after infections. A recent systematic review demonstrated anxiety and depression being present in 24% of an adult cohort, with severe anxiety reported in 12.4%, and depression in 21.8–23% . The role of the BGMA and this increased psychological comorbidity has not been explored. 3.9. Gastroesophageal reflux disease GERD is a condition where acid from the stomach rises into the esophagus sometimes causing esophageal erosion, marked by symptoms of heartburn, sore throat, and nausea. GERD is associated with higher rates of anxiety and depression than healthy controls (Javadi and Shafikhani, 2017). A Norwegian population based study showed anxiety increased the risk of reflux three-fold, depression increased the
