HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


with higher rates of anxiety and depression than healthy controls (Javadi and Shafikhani, 2017). A Norwegian population based study showed anxiety increased the risk of reflux three-fold, depression increased the risk 1.7 fold, and having both increased the risk of reflux 2.8-fold . While microbiome has been investigated related to GERD-related esophageal complications, it has not been studied related to psychological concerns . 4. Implications for treatment Numerous treatments to address dysregulation of the BGA have been investigated, including medications, psychotherapies, antibiotics, psychobiotics, dietary interventions, and FMT. While they are most often studied in the treatment of DGBI and psychological disorders, they may have role in treating organic gastrointestinal disorders as well. Central neuromodulators (tricyclic antidepressants, serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, atypical antidepressants, and atypical antipsychotics) are believed to help relieve pain in conditions like IBS through their effect on serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine to centrally regulate incoming visceral signals from the gut (Dekel et al., 2013; Drossman et al., 2018). They may also treat comorbid anxiety and depression. While rigorous investigation of many of these agents is lacking in DGBI, there has been evidence to support the use of tricyclic antidepressants to manage pain in both IBS and FD (Ford et al., 2014; Talley et al., 2015). Several psychotherapies have been shown to be useful in DGBI, most notably CBT, hypnotherapy (HT), and mindfulness-based therapy (MBT) (Ballou and Keefer, 2017; Black et al., 2020; E. L. Garland et al., 2012a; Kinsinger, 2017; Rutten et al., 2013). CBT was first developed to treat depression, but has since been adapted for a variety of disorders, including chronic medical illnesses (Beck, 1997; White, 2001). In this therapy, patients learn Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript how external events, cognitions, behaviors, and symptoms interact (Kinsinger, 2017). They also learn that how they interpret a situation can be biased and lead to an exaggerated response, including worsening anxiety and worsening gastrointestinal symptoms. Cognitive restructuring is used to challenge and replace self-defeating and irrational beliefs to promote a more adaptive response. Problem-solving and relaxation techniques are also emphasized, and patients receive psychoeducation about their condition, including the BGA. CBT has been shown to provide a sustained benefit in IBS (H. A. Everitt et al., 2019; Lackner et al., 2018). There are also numerous studies supporting the use of different modes of delivery of
