HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


provide a sustained benefit in IBS (H. A. Everitt et al., 2019; Lackner et al., 2018). There are also numerous studies supporting the use of different modes of delivery of CBT, including telephone sessions and internet platforms (Bonnert et al., 2017; H. Everitt et al., 2015). The role of CBT has also been explored in IBD, with a suggestion it can improve quality of life measures and mood symptoms (Paulides et al., 2020; Szigethy et al., 2014). In HT, patients are induced into a hypnotic state, where they experience heightened receptivity (Olafur S. Palsson and Ballou, 2020). This receptive state is enhanced by the therapist through deepening techniques, and post-hypnotic suggestions are then delivered to facilitate changes in cognitions, emotions, or physical symptoms. This can be particularly useful in gastrointestinal disorders, as post-hypnotic suggestions can work to normalize gastrointestinal function and reduce the connections between emotions and symptoms. Patients can then practice self-hypnosis exercises at home. HT has shown benefit in reducing symptom severity in IBS, functional abdominal pain, and FD, and this benefit sustains at least one year after treatment (Calvert et al., 2002; Flik et al., 2019; Vlieger et al., 2012). HT is understudied in IBD, though there is evidence to support it can improve quality of life measures, and one study suggesting it may reduce the rate of disease relapse in patients with UC in remission (Keefer et al., 2013; Lee et al., 2020; Szigethy, 2015). In MBT, patients are taught through relaxation and meditative action to develop a complete and non-judgmental awareness of the present, including their cognitions, emotions, and sensations (Vago and Silbersweig, 2012). As this practice can be applied to a variety of situations and disease states, including depression, stress, and chronic pain, it has broad applications (Khoury et al., 2013; Majeed et al., 2018). Various models have been proposed as to how mindfulness might exert its therapeutic effects, and it is believed to work by modifying attentional control and body awareness . In gastrointestinal disorders, MBT can reduce attention to certain cognitions, emotions, and sensation to reduce visceral hypersensitivity and reduce catastrophizing (Eric L. Garland et al., 2012b). Several studies have suggested the efficacy of MBT in reducing symptoms and improving quality of life in IBS (Naliboff et al., 2020; Zernicke et al., 2013). MBT has also been shown to be helpful in reducing anxiety and depression and improving quality of life in
