HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


life in IBS (Naliboff et al., 2020; Zernicke et al., 2013). MBT has also been shown to be helpful in reducing anxiety and depression and improving quality of life in patients with IBD (Ewais et al., 2019; Neilson et al., 2015). Interestingly, a recent two-armed randomized control trial showed that IBD patients undergoing a mindfulness intervention had significantly lower inflammatory biomarkers at six month follow-up compared to patients receiving standard medical care (González-Moret et al., 2020). This supports the importance of the BMGA, and that interventions targeting the CNS could have an impact on the gut. Antibiotic exposure has been associated with microbiome depletion and increased risk for depression and other cognitive changes in mainly preclinical studies . Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Broad spectrum antibiotic exposure in adult rodents was shown to cause depletion of the gut microbiome and changes in behavior, including reduced anxiety and cognitive deficits . Likely contributing to cognitive changes, they were found to have decreases in concentrations of serum tryptophan, brain serotonin metabolites, and case-control analysis of a large population-based medical record database in the United Kingdom that treatment with a single course of antibiotics mildly increased the risk of depression . This risk increased further with recurrent antibiotic exposure. Prebiotics and probiotics, sometimes called psychobiotics when used to address cognition depression, and anxiety with mixed results as to efficacy (Lachance and Ramsey, 2015; Sarkar et al., 2016; Vaghef-Mehrabany et al., 2020). While this remains an exciting potential therapeutic option for neuropsychiatric disorders, studies with larger sample sizes and longer durations may be useful in fully elucidating the role of psychobiotics in the management of neuropsychiatric disorders. In gastrointestinal diseases, probiotics have been shown to be useful in children with functional abdominal pain . They have shown promise in the management of both IBS and FD (Igarashi et al., 2017; J. R. Sun et al., 2020b). Interestingly, probiotics may exert their beneficial effects both on the gut and CNS. Treatment with Bifidobacterium lactis was shown in one study to accelerate whole-gut transit and improve symptoms in patients with IBS-C . Neuroimaging has also suggested probiotics may modulate CNS function, and one study showed changes in brain areas controlling emotional processing and sensation in healthy volunteers receiving a probiotic . A recent RCT where participants were subjected to social stress
