HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


and one study showed changes in brain areas controlling emotional processing and sensation in healthy volunteers receiving a probiotic . A recent RCT where participants were subjected to social stress via a virtual game, showed that subjects treated with four weeks of Bifidobacterium longum 1714 reported greater vitality with magnetoencephalography data suggesting possible corresponding neurophysiologic changes (H. Wang et al., 2019). The role of prebiotics and probiotics is less clear in organic gastrointestinal disease, and studies in inflammatory disease have not supported their routine use (Abraham and Quigley, 2020). Postbiotics are the bioactive products of bacterial metabolism and have been implicated in preventing gastrointestinal infection, correcting dysbiosis, and preventing cancer (Malagon­ Rojas et al., 2020; Rad et al., 2020; Zolkiewicz et al., 2020). They have potential advantages, including the fact they have a longer shelf-life and better safety profile, as they are not comprised or living organisms (Tsilingiri and Rescigno, 2013; Zolkiewicz et al., 2020). While they are an active topic on inquiry, there is currently limited evidence for their role in psychological disorders. There is also limited evidence for their role in gastrointestinal disorders, though in one study administration of Lactobacillus caei DG attenuated the inflammatory mucosal response in an ex vivo organ culture model of post-infectious IBS-D . Nutritional interventions have shown promise in both the management of gastrointestinal diseases and in psychological conditions. The emerging field of nutritional psychiatry has explored how diet can serve as a risk factor for mental illness, and observational studies have suggested having a healthier diet and avoiding a pro-inflammatory diet may confer some protection against depression (F. N. Jacka, 2017; Lassale et al., 2019). Diet is also Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript emerging as a new therapeutic option, and two randomized control trials have reported significant reductions in in depressive symptoms in adults adhering to a Mediterranean-style diet (Felice N. Jacka et al., 2017; Parletta et al., 2019). While the supporting data is largely in mood, cognition, and behavior . Dietary strategies are also used in the management of CD, and exclusive enteral nutrition, a formula based diet, has been used to induce disease remission in pediatric patients and alters their microbiome (Ashton et al., 2019; Gatti et al., 2017). The low fermentable oligosaccharides, disaccharides, monosaccharides, and polyols (FODMAPs) diet has been shown to reduce symptoms
