HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


pediatric patients and alters their microbiome (Ashton et al., 2019; Gatti et al., 2017). The low fermentable oligosaccharides, disaccharides, monosaccharides, and polyols (FODMAPs) diet has been shown to reduce symptoms in some patients with IBS (Dionne et al., 2018; H. M. Staudacher et al., 2017). While this diet is believed to eliminate carbohydrates that increase small intestinal water and colonic gas, research has also demonstrated potential modifications of the microbiome by this diet and that microbiome could be a predictor of treatment response (Chumpitazi, 2020; Halmos et al., 2015; Heidi M. Staudacher et al., 2014). FMT has been used in the management of both UC and CD, where microbiota from healthy donors are inoculated into affected patients with the goal of reversing dysbyosis (Levy and Allegretti, 2019). More robust support for FMT exists in UC, and a recent meta-analysis pooling data between four randomized control trials and 20 uncontrolled cohort studies 2017). There is less high quality evidence for FMT in CD, though the first small RTC was published in 2020 looking at preventing disease relapse after a course of corticosteroids for acute flare (Claytor and El-Nachef, 2020; Sokol et al., 2020). This showed a non-significant trend towards clinical remission. There is increasing evidence for FMT in the management of irritable bowel syndrome, and a recent RCT of 165 patients showed significant reduction in IBD symptoms scores after FMT also with significant changes intestinal bacterial profiles . There is also some evidence of improvement in comorbid anxiety and depression in IBS patients undergoing FMT . 5. Summary and future directions There is growing evidence to support the role of the BGMA in the pathogenesis of both psychological and gastrointestinal diseases, providing a basis for the long-standing clinical observation of their frequent comorbidity. This also supports the application of the biopsychosocial model to the conceptualization of these diseases, as evidence for top-down and bottom-up communication between the brain and the gut, as influenced by the gut microbiome, exists. Clinically, the presence of comorbid psychological concerns should be explored in patients being managed for DGBI or organic gastrointestinal diseases. This exploration should extend beyond screening for a frank psychological disorder, as subclinical symptoms may be present that are still impairing. Further, the presence of distorted cognitions (i.e. catastrophizing), maladaptive coping, low resilience, and low self-efficacy may impair successful medical treatment as well as contribute to individual dysfunction. Finally, given frequent occurrence of
