HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gut, psychological, microbiome, gastrointestinal, depression, ibs, patients, manuscript author, disease, disorders, anxiety, gut microbiome


presence of distorted cognitions (i.e. catastrophizing), maladaptive coping, low resilience, and low self-efficacy may impair successful medical treatment as well as contribute to individual dysfunction. Finally, given frequent occurrence of EALs in DGBA, this area should be explored carefully. Patients being managed for psychiatric disorders should be asked about gastrointestinal symptoms Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript as well. Appropriate referral to a gastroenterologist should be performed as indicated, and psychotropics should be modified to address either potential gastrointestinal side-effects or to take advantage of their benefits as neuromodulators. While treatment options are being investigated for both psychological and gastrointestinal concerns separately, patient care should be comprehensive and ideally integrated between medical and behavioral health. Potential barriers to this integrated treatment include logistical barriers and lack of access to behavioral healthcare practitioners with psychogastroenterology expertise. There is some evidence for the use of prebiotics, probiotics, and FMT in the management of DGBI, though more investigation will be needed to understand which organisms benefit which individuals as well as their mechanism of action. Postbiotics offer an exciting future therapeutic option that require more evaluation in psychiatric and gastrointestinal contexts. Understanding surrounding the BGMA and psychological and gastrointestinal disease is hampered by the lack of large-scale, controlled, and longitudinal human studies. Through signatures and their role in susceptibility to BGMA-related diseases will be possible. Additionally, better understanding the pathogenesis of BGMA-related diseases may reveal more specific targets for therapies and even allow individually tailored interventions.
