Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


23–1 CHAPTER 23 PERIPHERAL AND AUTONOMIC NEUROPATHY IN DIABETES Rodica Pop-Busui, MD, PhD, Andrew J. M. Boulton, MD, DSc (Hon), FACP, FICP, FRCP, and Jay M. Sosenko, MD Dr. Rodica Pop-Busui is Professor of Internal Medicine, Metabolism, Endocrinology and Diabetes in the Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Metabolism, Endocrinology and Diabetes, and Co-Director of the Neuropathy Center, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI. Dr. Andrew J. M. Boulton is Professor of Medicine, University of Manchester, and Consultant Physician, Manchester Royal Infirmary, Centre for Endocrinology and Diabetes, Institute of Human Development, University of Manchester, United Kingdom, and Visiting Professor, University of Miami, Miami, FL. Dr. Jay M. Sosenko is Professor of Medicine, Pediatrics, and Epidemiology, Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL. Received in final form May 9, 2016. SUMMARY Diabetes is the most common cause of neuropathy in the United States. Of hospital discharges between 2005 and 2010 among those age ≥18 years, 7.8% had an International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision (ICD-9), code of Diabetes with Neurological Manifestations, and 4.6% of discharges had a code of Polyneuropathy in Diabetes. This far exceeds hospital discharges coded for any other cause of neuropathy. Classification systems have been developed for a number of manifestations of neuropathy. Among these various forms, the most common is distal symmetrical polyneuropathy (DSPN). The reported incidence and prevalence vary widely from study to study. These differences are likely attributable to several factors, including the population studied, the criteria used to diagnose DSPN, and the modalities used to detect the condition. Among type 1 diabetes patients, one prospective study found a 29% cumulative incidence after approximately 5 years of follow-up, while another found a cumulative incidence of 35% over a follow-up of 13–14 years. DSPN is associated with several risk factors, of which glucose levels and the duration of diabetes appear to be the most influential. However, associations have been found with other characteristics, including height, blood pressure, and lipid levels. Autonomic neuropathy is another troubling complication of diabetes. Of its multiple manifestations, cardiovascular autonomic neurop­ athy (CAN) has been the most studied. Similar to DSPN, incidence and prevalence estimates vary. In a large study of patients with type 1 diabetes who had normal autonomic function at baseline, less than 10% were found to have CAN after approximately 5 years of follow-up. CAN increases substantially with diabetes duration to
