Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


1 diabetes who had normal autonomic function at baseline, less than 10% were found to have CAN after approximately 5 years of follow-up. CAN increases substantially with diabetes duration to rates as high as 35% after 22 years in individuals with type 1 diabetes and to 60% in patients with type 2 diabetes. Differences in prevalence and incidence estimates of CAN also could be attributable to differences in study populations, diagnostic criteria, and tests utilized for detection. Risk factors have been identified for autonomic neuropathy. Although glycemia is a risk factor among individuals with type 1 diabetes, it has not clearly been identified as such for individuals with type 2 diabetes. Autonomic neuropathy has also been associated with cardio­ vascular risk factors. In an analysis performed for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition, heart rate (beats/minute) was significantly higher in adults with diagnosed diabetes (mean 75.8) compared with those with normal glucose levels (mean 68.9). Heart rate was also higher in those who were diag­ nosed at the study visit with diabetes (mean 73.9) or prediabetes (mean 70.5) than in those with normal glucose levels. Of those with diabetes, the heart rate was significantly higher among diabetic individuals with glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) ≥11.0% (mean 85.0) than among those with A1c <7.0% (mean 74.1). The basis for the higher heart rate among diabetic patients and the relation of heart rate to A1c are unknown. However, it is possible that heart rate, even within the normal range, is related to autonomic dysfunction. A number of questions need to be answered with regard to diabetic neuropathy, such as whether glucose variability influences its development beyond the effects of the degree and duration of hyperglycemia. Such information should ultimately lead to a better under­ standing of how to treat and prevent the disorder. 23–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition INTRODUCTION Of all the long-term complications of diabetes, none affects as many organs or systems as the group of conditions that are included under the term “diabetic neurop­ athies.” The frequency with which diabetes affects the nervous system and the diverse manifestations of neuropathies might well explain the earlier view that diabetes was a consequence of, rather than a cause of, nerve dysfunction. Neuropathies have been described in patients with diabetes of differing causes, suggesting a common etiologic mechanism based on chronic hyperglycemia. The importance of hyperglycemia in the pathogenesis of neuropathy has received strong support
