Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


described in patients with diabetes of differing causes, suggesting a common etiologic mechanism based on chronic hyperglycemia. The importance of hyperglycemia in the pathogenesis of neuropathy has received strong support from landmark studies, such as the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) (1,2,3). In the DCCT, the benefits of 6.5 years of intensive glucose control were maintained for at least 13–14 years after the end of the study (4,5). The hallmark of the diabetic neuropathies is a progressive loss of all populations of nerve fibers, which can be assessed in a variety of ways. Although there are no major structural differences in nerve pathology between the two main types of diabetes, type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes, clinical differences do exist in the natural history and the prevalence of the various forms of neuropathy (6). The epidemiology and natural history of the neuropathies are not well defined, in large part due to variable diagnostic criteria and patient populations studied. The late sequelae of neuropathy are well recognized, with foot problems, including ulceration (7), gangrene, and Charcot neuroarthropathy (8), representing the most common cause of hospitalization among diabetic patients in most Western countries. Not surpris­ ingly, diabetic neuropathy often has an adverse effect on quality of life (9,10,11). DEFINITION OF DIABETIC NEUROPATHIES The consensus in the field is that diabetic neuropathies are defined by “the presence of symptoms and/ or signs of peripheral and autonomic nerve dysfunction in people with diabetes after the exclusion of other causes” that are confirmed by a careful clinical examination (12). Absence of symptoms, however, cannot be equated with absence of neuropathy, as asymp­ tomatic neuropathy is quite common (12,13,14,15). The exclusion of nondia­ betic causes has also been emphasized, as up to 10% of peripheral neuropathy in diabetic patients may be of nondiabetic etiology (13,15,16). In addition, diabetic neuropathy should not be diagnosed on the basis of one symptom, sign, or test alone: a minimum of two abnormalities (from symptoms and signs) confirmed by nerve conduction abnormalities, quantitative sensory testing (QST), or quantitative autonomic tests is recom­ mended (14,17,18). CLASSIFICATION OF THE DIABETIC NEUROPATHIES Many classification systems for diabetic neuropathy have been proposed over the years based on their anatomical distribution (e.g., polyneuropathy or mononeuropathy, proximal or distal, symmetric or asymmetric, focal or multi­ focal or diffuse), clinical course (e.g., acute, subacute, or chronic), or characteristic features (painful or non-painful, sensory, motor, or autonomic)
