Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


mononeuropathy, proximal or distal, symmetric or asymmetric, focal or multi­ focal or diffuse), clinical course (e.g., acute, subacute, or chronic), or characteristic features (painful or non-painful, sensory, motor, or autonomic) (14,18,19,20,21). A new, simplified, yet comprehensive classification, based on the classifi­ cations proposed by the American Diabetes Association (ADA) (13), is now recommended for use in clinical practice (Table 23.1) (13,14,15). The most typical form of diabetic neuropathy is a chronic, distal (length-dependent) symmetrical poly­ neuropathy (DSPN) that accounts for about 75% of cases (19). It is frequently associated with microvessel retinal and kidney disease, but other causes of neuropathy must be excluded (18). Among these various forms of diabetic neuropathy, the most studied both in experimental and clinical trials are DSPN and cardiovascular autonomic neurop­ athy (CAN) (18,19,20,22,23). Therefore, findings presented in this chapter are mainly pertinent to these two forms of neuropathy. DISTAL SYMMETRICAL POLYNEUROPATHY DSPN is the most common form of diabetic neuropathy, and most of the available evidence regarding the epidemiology, pathogenesis, and treatment is relevant to this form. It is usually of gradual onset and may be present at the diagnosis of type 2 diabetes in >10% of subjects (15,24). Up to 50% of patients may eventually develop symptoms and/or signs of DSPN (14,15). DSPN occurring in patients with abnormal glucose metabolism that is nonetheless insufficient to diagnose diabetes is some­ times classified as “impaired glucose tolerance” or “prediabetic” neuropathy (19). The symptoms and sensory loss in DSPN associated with large and small fiber involvement are generally restricted to a “stocking distribution” (19). The “asleep or numb” sensation reflecting large fiber damage is not usually particularly painful, contrasting with the tingling, stabbing, and burning sensations that likely reflect small fiber involvement and ultimately result in persistent neuropathic pain affecting about 20% of diabetic patients (19,21,25). Late sequelae of DSPN include insensate foot ulceration, Charcot neuro­ arthropathy, and even amputation (15). Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes 23–3 TABLE 23.1. Recommended Classification for Diabetic Neuropathies Diabetic neuropathies A. Diffuse neuropathy Distal symmetrical polyneuropathy (DSPN) Primarily small fiber neuropathy Primarily large fiber neuropathy Mixed small and large fiber neuropathy (most common) Autonomic Cardiovascular Reduced heart rate variability Resting tachycardia Orthostatic hypotension Sudden death (malignant arrhythmia) Gastrointestinal Diabetic gastroparesis Diabetic enteropathy (diarrhea) Colonic hypomotility (constipation) Urogenital Diabetic cystopathy (neurogenic bladder) Erectile dysfunction Female sexual dysfunction Sudomotor dyfunction Distal hypohydrosis/anhidrosis Gustatory sweating Hypoglycemia unawareness Abnormal pupillary function B. Mononeuropathy
