Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


with establish­ ment of stable blood glucose levels (26). Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy Chronic inflammatory demyelinating poly­ neuropathy (CIDP) is an immune-mediated neuropathy that has been suggested to occur more commonly in people with diabetes. However, its relationship to diabetes is controversial, since it could be a chance occurrence of two common disorders. An unmasking of mild diabetes among some CIDP patients treated with corticosteroids is possible (19). As CIDP may present clinically in a similar fashion to DRPN and often responds to immuno­ therapy, the differential diagnosis between these two conditions is very important. DIABETIC AUTONOMIC NEUROPATHY Diabetic autonomic neuropathy (DAN) can involve a number of different systems, including cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, urogenital, and sudomotor. This might result in an array of symptoms and signs, such as postural hypotension, decreased bowel motility, decreased bladder contrac­ tility, erectile dysfunction, and sweating disorders. More advanced disease, mani­ fested by debilitating symptoms and signs, is usually very difficult to treat and fortunately rare. Some of the various mani­ festations are described below. Symptoms of the various forms of DAN are listed in Table 23.2 (15). Among all forms of DAN, most available evidence from experimental and clinical studies regarding natural history, pathogenesis, and treatment is pertinent to CAN (15,19,27). Cardiovascular Autonomic Neuropathy The earliest sign of CAN is impaired heart rate variability (HRV), which may be completely asymptomatic (15,23,28,29). In more advanced cases, patients may present with resting tachycardia and exercise intolerance due to a reduced 23–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition TABLE 23.2. Symptoms Associated With Diabetic Autonomic Neuropathy CARDIOVASCULAR AUTONOMIC NEUROPATHY GASTROINTESTINAL AUTONOMIC NEUROPATHY UROGENITAL AUTONOMIC NEUROPATHY Resting tachycardia Abnormal blood pressure regulation § Non-dipping § Reverse dipping Exercise intolerance Orthostatic hypotension § Lightheadedness § Weakness § Faintness § Dizziness § Visual impairment § Syncope (all with standing) Gastroparesis § Nausea § Bloating § Loss of appetite § Early satiety § Postprandial vomiting Esophageal dysfunction § Heartburn § Dysphagia for solids Diabetic diarrhea § Profuse and watery diarrhea § Fecal incontinence Constipation Bladder dysfunction § Frequency § Urgency § Nocturia § Hesitancy § Weak stream § Dribbling § Urinary incontinence § Urinary retention Male sexual dysfunction § Erectile dysfunction § Decreased libido § Abnormal ejaculation Female sexual dysfunction § Decreased sexual desire § Increased pain during intercourse § Decreased sexual arousal § Inadequate lubrication SOURCE: Adapted from Reference 15, copyright © 2017 American Diabetes Association, reprinted with permission from The American
