Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


desire § Increased pain during intercourse § Decreased sexual arousal § Inadequate lubrication SOURCE: Adapted from Reference 15, copyright © 2017 American Diabetes Association, reprinted with permission from The American Diabetes Association response in heart rate and blood pres­ sure, as well as blunted increases in cardiac output with exercise (Table 23.2) (15,23,28,29). Orthostatic hypotension (a fall in systolic or diastolic blood pressure in response to a postural change from supine to standing) occurs in diabetes largely as a consequence of efferent sympathetic vasomotor denervation, causing reduced vasoconstriction of the splanchnic and other peripheral vascular beds (23,28,29). Gastrointestinal Autonomic Neuropathy The effect of autonomic neuropathy on the gastrointestinal system can have several manifestations. Esophageal dysfunction results, at least in part, from vagal dysfunction. Associated symptoms include heartburn and dysphagia for solids. Gastroparesis is due to delayed gastric emptying and may manifest with a broad, but nonspecific, spectrum of symptoms and signs (Table 23.2) (30,31). The prev­ alence data on gastroparesis are limited, mainly because gastric emptying studies, necessary for proper diagnosis, may be difficult to perform in population studies. From these limited data, idiopathic gast­ roparesis appears to be the most common category, followed by diabetic gast­ roparesis (32). Data from the Rochester Epidemiology Project, a database of linked medical records of residents of Olmsted County, Minnesota, showed that the age-adjusted incidence of definite gast­ roparesis per 100,000 person-years for 1996–2006 was 9.8 for women and 2.4 for men in the general population (33). Regarding diabetic gastroparesis, most data are from selected case series rather than larger populations, and there is inconsis­ tency in the outcome measure used (31) or in excluding other factors with direct effect on gastrointestinal motility (31). Earlier reports, that predated the routine use of intensive glucose management, described prevalence rates of up to 50% of patients with longstanding diabetes (30). More recently, in the only community-based study of gastroparesis in diabetes, the cumulative incidence of symptoms and delayed gastric emptying over 10 years was higher in type 1 diabetes (5%) than in type 2 diabetes (1%) and controls (1%) (34). However, there are several classes of medication (especially opioids, other pain management agents, glucagon-like peptide-1 [GLP-1] receptor agonists, pramlintide) and other factors that may considerably delay gastric emptying both in diabetic and nondiabetic patients. These factors should be considered before a diagnosis of diabetic gastroparesis is confirmed (30). Advanced cases dominated by severe nausea and
