Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


delay gastric emptying both in diabetic and nondiabetic patients. These factors should be considered before a diagnosis of diabetic gastroparesis is confirmed (30). Advanced cases dominated by severe nausea and postprandial vomiting can complicate diabetes control and reduce the quality of life (30). Intestinal dysfunction may manifest as profuse and watery diarrhea sometimes alternating with constipation. This may be challenging to treat. Diabetic diarrhea is typically intermittent, occurring at night, and is more likely to occur in patients with other forms of autonomic dysfunc­ tion (30). The prevalence rates of a pure autonomic diabetic diarrhea are unclear, given that diarrhea may be associated with many other conditions that can coexist in diabetes, such as infectious causes, various drugs, and irritable bowel disease. People with diabetes may also experience fecal incontinence due to poor sphincter tone. Urogenital Autonomic Neuropathy Bladder dysfunction may occur in up to 50% of people with diabetes (30). Symptoms are diverse and include frequency, urgency, nocturia, hesitancy, a weak stream, dribbling and urinary incon­ tinence, and urinary retention (Table 23.2). Erectile dysfunction is present in 30%–75% of diabetic men (30). It has a multifactorial etiology that includes autonomic neuropathy, other vascular risk factors (hypertension, hyperlipidemia, obesity, endothelial dysfunction, smoking, and cardiovascular disease), concomitant medication, and psychogenic factors. Female sexual dysfunction may occur in diabetic women and present as decreased sexual desire, increased pain during inter­ course, decreased sexual arousal, and inadequate lubrication. Other Manifestations of Autonomic Neuropathy Autonomic neuropathy can lead to sudomotor dysfunction with such manifes­ tations as anhidrosis, heat intolerance, dry skin, and hyperhidrosis (35). An unaware­ ness of hypoglycemia could also possibly be related to autonomic neuropathy. Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes 23–5 ASSESSMENT OF DIABETIC NEUROPATHIES This section focuses on assessments of DSPN and CAN, which have been most studied in epidemiologic and random­ ized clinical studies (27). For details on the other forms of diabetic neuropathy, readers are referred to detailed texts (19,21,36). DISTAL SYMMETRICAL POLYNEUROPATHY The diagnosis and staging of DSPN are important not only for day-to-day clinical practice but also for research assessing etiology, natural history, pathogenesis, and new treatments. The Peripheral Nerve Society issued a Consensus Statement on measures to assess efficacy in controlled trials of new therapies for neuropathy in 1995 (37), and more recently, in 2009, the Toronto Consensus on Diabetic Neuropathies panel reviewed the defi­ nitions and diagnostic criteria of DSPN for possible, probable, confirmed,
