Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


for neuropathy in 1995 (37), and more recently, in 2009, the Toronto Consensus on Diabetic Neuropathies panel reviewed the defi­ nitions and diagnostic criteria of DSPN for possible, probable, confirmed, and subclinical categories (18). The Toronto panel defined possible DSPN as appropriate sensory symptoms OR signs (symmetrical decrease in distal sensation or unequivocally abnormal ankle reflexes). Probable DSPN was defined as at least two abnormalities among sensory symptoms, sensory signs, or ankle reflexes. Confirmed DSPN was defined as symptoms OR signs (sensory or ankle reflexes) AND an abnormal nerve conduction study, whereas subclinical DSPN was defined as an abnormal nerve conduction study, without signs or symptoms (18,19). In clinical practice, DSPN remains a clinical diagnosis, and equipment requiring an electrical power source or referral to a neurologist is not usually needed in the assessment of peripheral nerve function (13,24), except in situations where the clinical features are atypical, the diagnosis is unclear, and a different etiology is suspected (14,22). Symptoms The accurate recording of symptoms is a basic element of the assessment of neuropathy. A number of simplified composite scores of symptoms have been developed, such as the Neuropathy Symptom Score (NSS), the Neuropathy Symptom Profile (NSP) (24), and the symptoms questionnaire of the Michigan Neuropathy Screening Instrument (MNSI). The MNSI comprises a 15-item, yes/no symptom questionnaire that is supplemented by a simple clinical exam. The simplified NSS and the MNSI have been used for epidemiologic studies (24,38,39) and can be easily applied in clinical practice for diagnosis or patient follow-up, as they are easy to administer. The McGill Pain Questionnaire, which is a general pain instrument, also has been used by several research groups. In addition, the quality of life has increas­ ingly been emphasized as an important factor in the natural history of neuropathic symptomatology, and specific instruments have been developed and validated for use in diabetic neuropathy, such as the NeuroQoL (40), the MNSI (41), and the Norfolk QOL-DN (42). Clinical Signs Simple clinical observation of the feet and legs after the removal of shoes and socks may identify a neuropathic foot: evidence might include small muscle wasting, clawing of the toes, prominent metatarsal heads, dry skin and callus (secondary to sympathetic autonomic dysfunction), and occasionally the typical foot deformity secondary to Charcot neuroarthropathy. Two simple instruments can be used in clinical practice or for clinical trial assessment. First, the clinical examina­ tion part of the MNSI,
