Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


typical foot deformity secondary to Charcot neuroarthropathy. Two simple instruments can be used in clinical practice or for clinical trial assessment. First, the clinical examina­ tion part of the MNSI, which includes foot examination, the assessment of ankle reflexes, and the measurement of vibration perception at the great toe (see the Quantitative Sensory Testing section) (41), is a sensitive and specific instrument for diagnosis of DSPN (38,41). It has been used in major large clinical trials, including the DCCT/Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications study (EDIC) (38,39), the Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD), and the Bypass Angioplasty Revascularization Investigation 2 Diabetes (BARI 2D) (27,43). Second, the simplified neuropathy disability score (NDS) requires a simple clinical examina­ tion that sums abnormalities of reflexes and sensory assessments. It has been used in clinical practice and in epidemio­ logic studies (24,44). Quantitative Sensory Testing QST assesses the patient’s ability to detect a variety of sensory stimuli that characterize both large and smaller nerve fibers. This methodology also has a large degree of subjectivity, as results are a function of the patient’s concentration and cooperation. Moreover, an abnormal finding does not necessarily indicate peripheral neuropathy; the abnormality may lie anywhere in the afferent neural pathway. QST methods vary in complexity: the simpler instruments can be used in day-to-day clinical practice, whereas the more sophisticated instru­ ments, usually requiring more expensive equipment and an external power source, are commonly used for more detailed assessment and for follow-up assess­ ments in clinical trials. Some of the more commonly used techniques are now briefly described. Semmes-Weinstein monofilaments comprise sets of nylon filaments of vari­ able diameter that buckle at a predefined force when applied to the testing site— usually the dorsal aspect of the halluces at the metatarsal-phalangeal joints area and plantar surfaces. They are widely used in clinical practice and are particu­ larly helpful in identifying individuals who are at risk of neuropathic foot ulceration. The inability to perceive pressure of 10 g (5.07) monofilaments has been shown in prospective studies to be indicative of higher risk for neuropathic ulceration (45). Vibration perception, indicative of myelin­ ated fiber function, can be assessed with several devices. The vibration perception threshold increases with age in nondia­ betic individuals and tends to be higher in the lower extremities. As well as being useful in clinical practice, the vibration 23–6 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition perception threshold
