Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


nondia­ betic individuals and tends to be higher in the lower extremities. As well as being useful in clinical practice, the vibration 23–6 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition perception threshold has been used in clinical research and epidemiologic studies (19,27). A simple pocket-sized disposable device, the Vibratrip, has been validated as a useful tool in the clinical setting and may also be useful for the prediction of patients at risk for foot ulcer­ ation in the research setting (46). Thermal and cooling thresholds are also used to assess sensory function. Warm and cold sensations are transmitted by small myelinated and unmyelinated fibers and can be assessed with several devices. Since these tend to be expensive, they are used mostly for clinical research and for detailed clinical assessment (24). Computer assisted sensory examination (CASE) is a complex methodology that is regarded as the state of the art for clinical trials. It is a computerized device that can measure touch, pressure, vibration, and warm/cold thresholds using a forced- choice algorithm. CASE is not typically used in day-to-day clinical practice (18). Electrophysiology Electrophysiological tests are objective, noninvasive, and highly reliable measures that do not depend on a patient’s response. However, these tests only measure large fiber afferent and motor nerve function and, therefore, are of limited use in the evaluation of small- fiber deficits (47,48,49). The 2009 Toronto Consensus Panel concluded that composite sum scores based on deviations (from percentiles) of nerve conduction study attributes (e.g., fibular and tibial conduction velocity, sural ampli­ tude) performed best among these tests for diagnosing DSPN (18). More easily applied criteria (e.g., use of ≥1 abnormal attribute in two separate lower extremity nerves based on 1st and 99th percentile values) perform well (19). Composite scores that combine elec­ trophysiological measures with clinical, quantitative, and sensory assessments are often used in research studies evaluating the natural history of DSPN or the efficacy of various interventions (14,18). However, electrophysiological testing or referral to a neurologist is rarely needed for diagnosis of DSPN in clinical practice, except in situations where the clinical features are atypical, the diag­ nosis is unclear, or a different etiology is suspected, as recommended in the ADA Statement on Diabetic Neuropathy based on most recent evidence (15). Skin Biopsy and Corneal Confocal Microscopy Immunohistochemical quantification of intra-epidermal nerve fiber density (IENFD) using punch skin biopsies has increasingly been used to quantify small fiber neuropathies in diabetes
