Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


(15). Skin Biopsy and Corneal Confocal Microscopy Immunohistochemical quantification of intra-epidermal nerve fiber density (IENFD) using punch skin biopsies has increasingly been used to quantify small fiber neuropathies in diabetes (50). The introduction of corneal confocal micros­ copy (CCM) represents a novel reiterative in vivo clinical examination technique that is capable of imaging corneal nerve fibers in a noninvasive technique (51). CCM has the capacity to detect early nerve fiber repair 6 months after resto­ ration of euglycemia following pancreas transplantation in type 1 diabetes patients (52). CARDIOVASCULAR AUTONOMIC NEUROPATHY Several diagnostic approaches with varying degrees of complexity are available to diagnose CAN in practice or research, including the assessment of cardiovascular reflex testing, HRV, 24-hour blood pressure profiles, orthostatic hypo­ tension, baroreflex sensitivity, cardiac sympathetic imaging, microneurography, or occlusion plethysmography. Assessment of Symptoms Symptoms associated with CAN include exercise intolerance, orthostatic intoler­ ance, and syncope (Table 23.2) (15,53). The correlation between symptom scores and deficits is generally weak in mild CAN, as these symptoms usually occur late in the disease process. Using a validated self-report measure of auto­ nomic symptoms in a population-based study, Low et al. found that autonomic symptoms were present more commonly in type 1 diabetes than in type 2 diabetes (53). Cardiovascular Autonomic Reflex Tests Based on the strongest lines of evidence available to date, cardiovascular auto­ nomic reflex tests (CARTs) are the most sensitive, specific, reproducible, safe, and standardized measures (15,23,28,29,35,54). Therefore, their use is recommended as the gold standard for clinical autonomic testing (15,28). These tests, first described in the 1970s (55,56), assess cardiovascular autonomic function using provocative physiological maneuvers and include: (1) changes in R-R interval from an electrocardiogram (ECG) with deep breathing, a measure of sinus arrhythmia during quiet respiration reflecting primarily parasympathetic function (35); (2) the R-R response to standing, inducing reflex tachycardia followed by bradycardia, which is jointly vagal- and baroreflex-mediated; (3) the Valsalva ratio, which evaluates cardiovagal function in response to a standardized increase in intrathoracic pressure (Valsalva maneuver); and (4) orthostatic hypotension (28). Although no test is clearly superior (28), the deep breathing test is the most widely used due to its high reproducibility, approximately 80% spec­ ificity (57), and ease of use (28,35,57). The Valsalva maneuver requires greater patient cooperation. Due to the associated increase in intrathoracic, intraocular, and intracranial pressure, it could theoretically result in intraocular hemorrhage or lens dislocation; thus, it cannot be universally
