Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


requires greater patient cooperation. Due to the associated increase in intrathoracic, intraocular, and intracranial pressure, it could theoretically result in intraocular hemorrhage or lens dislocation; thus, it cannot be universally performed (28), although there is no clear evidence regarding the extent of this risk. Test abnormalities should be defined using age-specific normative data (28). Detailed descriptions of CART standardization, analysis, and staging are provided else­ where (28,58). Heart Rate Variability In normal individuals, beat-to-beat variability with respiration, increasing with inspiration and decreasing with expiration, is due to the direct influence of sympathetic and parasympathetic stimuli. A decrease in HRV is the earliest clinical indicator of CAN (23,58,59). HRV can be evaluated in the time and Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes 23–7 frequency domain, derived from ECG recordings, ideally under paced breathing. Longer ECG recordings (e.g., 24-hour) were initially used exclusively, but shorter recordings also provide reliable information on cardiovascular autonomic function (23,58,60). Time domain measures of the normal R-R intervals, basically reflecting parasym­ pathetic activity, include: the difference between the longest and shortest R-R interval, standard deviation of 5-minute average of normal R-R intervals (SDANN), and root-mean square of the difference of successive R-R intervals (rMSSD) (60). The frequency domain measures are obtained by spectral analysis of R-R interval and other respiratory and cardio­ vascular signals (58). It is traditionally accepted that the parasympathetic system affects the high frequency components (0.15–0.4 Hz), the sympathetic activity essentially influences a rather narrow band around 0.1 Hz (low frequency), and the very low frequency components (<0.04 Hz) are essentially related to fluctu­ ations in vasomotor tone associated with thermoregulation or activity (58). A variety of mathematical methods used to analyze HRV and the commercially available soft­ ware programs for assessment of HRV are broadly covered in Bernardi et al. (58). It is generally recommended that HRV testing be used for research and in conjunction with CART (58). The accuracy of all HRV measures is affected by various arrhyth­ mias, and the analysis requires normal sinus rhythm and atrioventricular-nodal function. PATHOGENESIS OF THE DIABETIC NEUROPATHIES The specific mechanisms contributing to diabetic DSPN are not completely under­ stood. It is generally accepted that the pathogenesis of diabetic DSPN is multi­ factorial, involving complex interactions between the degree of glycemic control, diabetes duration, age-related neuronal attrition, and other factors, such as blood pressure, lipid levels, and weight (19). These promote progressive peripheral and autonomic neural
