Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


between the degree of glycemic control, diabetes duration, age-related neuronal attrition, and other factors, such as blood pressure, lipid levels, and weight (19). These promote progressive peripheral and autonomic neural dysfunction in a fashion that begins distally and progresses prox­ imally. Hyperglycemia plays a key role in the activation of various biochemical pathways related to the metabolic and/or redox state of the cell, which in concert with impaired nerve perfusion contribute to the development and progression of diabetic neuropathies. Experimental data implicate a number of pathogenic pathways that may impact the peripheral and autonomic neuronal function in diabetes, including: increased mitochondrial production of free radicals and increased oxidative/nitrosative stress, formation of advanced glycation endprod­ ucts, downregulation of the soluble receptor for advanced glycation endprod­ ucts (sRAGE), activation of the polyol and protein kinase C pathways, activation of polyADP ribosylation, and activation of genes involved in neuronal damage, cyclooxygenase-2 activation, endothelial dysfunction, altered function of the Na+/ K+-ATPase pump, impaired C-peptide- related signaling pathways, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress with resulting accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins within the ER lumen, and acti­ vation of several apoptotic processes (19,23,59,61,62,63,64,65). Low-grade inflammatory processes may also play an important role in the pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathies. Some could be mediated by NF-kappaB activation and downstream effects (66,67) with deficits in peripheral and autonomic nerve fibers (59,66,68). Altered mitochon­ drial bioenergetics in dorsal root ganglia neurons appear to be modulated by the heat shock protein (Hsp) 70. Ciliary neuro­ trophic factors also could be important (19,69,70). Emerging data in human studies suggest that peripheral nerve dysfunction and changes in the sympathetic and para­ sympathetic system function may occur prior to the development of diabetic range hyperglycemia in individuals with features of the metabolic syndrome or in patients with impaired glucose tolerance (71,72). These changes appear to correlate with an increase in adipose tissue-derived inflam­ matory markers (73,74). A detailed review of these mechanisms and their complex interactions is beyond the scope of this chapter. TREATMENT In line with the evidence discussed above, this section provides a general overview of treatments for DSPN and CAN. For more detailed information and for other forms, readers are referred to detailed texts (19,21). There is a distinction between therapies that might alter (slow) the progressive loss of nerve fiber function that charac­ terizes the natural history of neuropathy (disease-modifying therapies) and those for symptomatic relief (75). Some inter­ ventions
