Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


that might alter (slow) the progressive loss of nerve fiber function that charac­ terizes the natural history of neuropathy (disease-modifying therapies) and those for symptomatic relief (75). Some inter­ ventions have efficacy in both areas. DISEASE-MODIFYING TREATMENTS Of disease-modifying therapies, tight and stable glycemic control, implemented early in the course of diabetes, is most supported by data to delay development of DSPN and CAN in patients with type 1 diabetes (1,2,3,27,76,77) and to promote long-time protection, especially for CAN (4,5,27,78). The effects of glycemic control on DSPN or CAN are less conclusive for type 2 diabetes (27). Data from the 1990s suggested that glucose control was bene­ ficial if implemented earlier in the disease course in patients with fewer comorbid­ ities (79). ACCORD, the largest type 2 diabetes trial, reported a significant DSPN 23–8 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition risk reduction in the intensive glycemia strategy arm after 5 years of follow-up (80), although other large studies did not confirm these findings (81,82,83,84). Some studies have suggested that rapid improvement in blood glucose may induce symptoms and signs of neuropathy, espe­ cially neuropathic pain (26). Emerging data suggest that, in type 2 diabetes, the strategies used to reach glycemic goals may be as important as the glucose control achieved (27). The BARI 2D trial reported that specific glucose-lowering strategies and medica­ tions used to reach glycemic goals also have different effects in preventing DSPN in type 2 diabetes (85). Lifestyle interventions, particularly diet and exercise consisting of moderately intense aerobic and resistance training, improve neuropathic symptoms and IENFD among patients with DSPN associ­ ated with impaired glucose tolerance and with diabetes (86,87). An intensive multifactorial cardiovascular risk factor intervention targeting glucose, blood pressure, lipids, smoking, and other lifestyle factors reduced the progression or the development of CAN among type 2 diabetes patients (88). Data regarding the impact of lifestyle interventions in preventing progression of CAN are emerging (71). In the Diabetes Prevention Program, indices of CAN improved more in the lifestyle modification arm than in the metformin or placebo arms (Figure 23.1) (71). Some smaller trials reported that the combination of strictly supervised endurance training and dietary changes was associated with improved HRV in overweight patients who had minimal abnormalities (29). This outcome was possibly mediated by the effects of weight loss on cardiovascular autonomic function (89). Earlier trials of potential disease- modifying therapies, including aldose- reductase inhibitors, various antioxidants,
