Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


(29). This outcome was possibly mediated by the effects of weight loss on cardiovascular autonomic function (89). Earlier trials of potential disease- modifying therapies, including aldose- reductase inhibitors, various antioxidants, recombinant nerve growth factors, and acetyl-carnitine, did not show appreciable benefit (61,90,91). Other therapies, such as alpha-lipoic acid (92,93,94), C-peptide FIGURE 23.1. Indices of Cardiovascular Autonomic Neuropathy Are Improved by Lifestyle Modification, Diabetes Prevention Program Heart rate SDNN rMSSD QT index QTc duration Milliseconds 22.5 25 27.5 *‡ Milliseconds 25 29 33 *‡ 99 99.5 100 Percent † 401 407 413 Year from Randomization 0 1 2 3 4 Milliseconds * † Changes in heart rate, heart rate variability indexes, and QT duration over time by treatment arm. QTc, Bazett’s correction; rMSSD, root mean square of successive differences between all normal-to-normal R-R intervals; SDNN, standard deviation of all normal-to-normal R-R intervals. * p<0.05, placebo versus lifestyle † p<0.05, placebo versus metformin ‡ p<0.05, metformin versus lifestyle SOURCE: Reference 71, copyright © 2006 American Diabetes Association, reprinted with permission from The American Diabetes Association Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes 23–9 (95,96), actovegin (97), and a combina­ tion of L-methylfolate, methylcobalamin, and pyridoxal-5’-phosphate (98), have shown some promise on symptomatic relief for DSPN, but the evidence from multicenter randomized clinical trials on objective measures of DSPN is very limited, with most being largely nega­ tive as disease-modifying treatments. Most recently, a phase IIb clinical trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of long- acting synthetic C-peptide in patients with type 1 diabetes and mild DSPN reported no difference in nerve conduction studies and clinical outcomes of DSPN compared with placebo (99). Regarding CAN, few phase II randomized controlled trials have shown favorable effects on HRV indices using the anti­ oxidant alpha-lipoic acid, vitamin E, or C-peptide (23,28). Larger studies are needed to confirm these findings, as well as to evaluate new, effective potential pathogenetic treatments. SYMPTOMATIC TREATMENT Whereas a number of treatments are avail­ able for painful symptomatic DSPN, there are no specific therapies for patients with painless neuropathy or for other symp­ toms. However, as stated below, all of these patients warrant foot care education and regular podiatric care (45). Neuropathic pain can affect several aspects of a patient’s life, so a multidisci­ plinary approach is essential in managing the condition. In many cases, the clinical assessment indicates the need for psycho­ logical or physical therapy in addition to standard pharmacologic
