Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


a multidisci­ plinary approach is essential in managing the condition. In many cases, the clinical assessment indicates the need for psycho­ logical or physical therapy in addition to standard pharmacologic treatments. Support and information on practical measures, such as using a bed cradle to lift the bed clothes off hyperesthetic skin, often prove invaluable. Pharmacologic agents include anticonvulsants, serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants, topical and physical treatments. The ADA Statement on Diabetic Neuropathy summarized the available evidence on the most effective agents for treating neuropathic pain in diabetes, including U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved drugs and other agents that should be considered in clin­ ical decision making (15). Given the high risk of addiction, abuse, sedation, and other complications and psychosocial issues even with short-term opioid use, opioids are not recommended in the treat­ ment of painful DSPN before failure of other agents (15) that do not have these associated concerns. As indicated above, a number of troubling symptoms can occur from manifestations of CAN or other forms of DAN, including orthostatic hypotension, gastroparesis, diabetic diarrhea, erectile dysfunction, and bladder dysfunction. There is no overall treatment for these entities; each treatment must be individualized. EPIDEMIOLOGY AND NATURAL HISTORY OF DISTAL SYMMETRICAL POLYNEUROPATHY AND CARDIOVASCULAR AUTONOMIC NEUROPATHY Diabetes is by far the most common cause of neuropathy in the United States. The National Hospital Discharge Survey provides strong evidence for this. In a new analysis for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition, data from hospital discharges between 2005 and 2010 among those age ≥18 years, showed that 7.8% of discharges had an International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision (ICD-9), code of Diabetes with Neurological Manifestations, and 4.6% of discharges had a code of Polyneuropathy in Diabetes (data not shown). In comparison, the percentage of discharges with a code for Alcoholic Polyneuropathy, Polyneuropathy due to Drugs, or Polyneuropathy due to Other Toxic Agents was extremely low (<0.001% for Alcoholic Polyneuropathy; number of discharges for Polyneuropathy due to Drugs or Polyneuropathy due to Other Toxic Agents was too small for a valid estimate). Since there are a number of methods by which the presence and degree of severity of diabetic neuropathy are assessed, studies of the natural history and epide­ miology of diabetic neuropathy should be examined with attention to the specific assessments and criteria for neuropathy that were used. Other factors also should be considered, such as characteristics of the study
