Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


diabetic neuropathy should be examined with attention to the specific assessments and criteria for neuropathy that were used. Other factors also should be considered, such as characteristics of the study population, the type of diabetes, and study design. Although a great deal of natural history and epidemiologic information has been obtained from studies performed in the United States, valuable information has also been obtained from studies in other locales. Thus, findings from those other studies are included in this discussion. As mentioned, the vast majority of studies have examined the natural history and epidemiology of DSPN and CAN. Thus, these forms are the focus of this section. DISTAL SYMMETRICAL POLYNEUROPATHY Incidence and Prevalence Incidence estimates of DSPN among type 1 diabetes patients have been examined in several large studies. In the observational follow-up of the DCCT cohort, the EDIC study, 25% and 35%, respectively, of the former intensive and conventional treatment groups had confirmed clinical neurop­ athy at year 13–14 (4). In the Wisconsin Epidemiologic Study of Diabetic Retinopathy (WESDR) (76), depending on characteristics of the type 1 diabetes patients who were studied, there was decreased tactile sensation in 19%–25% and decreased temperature sensitivity in 11%–19% after 10 years of follow-up. In the Pittsburgh Epidemiology of Diabetes Complications Study (EDC), in which patients with type 1 diabetes were followed, the cumulative incidence of DSPN over a period of 5.3 years was 29% (77). The importance of methodology in considering epidemiologic findings is particularly evident in studies of type 2 diabetes patients, such as the San Luis Valley Study. In that study, the incidence of DSPN without a confirmatory exam­ ination was approximately 5 per 100 person-years, whereas the incidence was 23–10 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition <1 per 100 person-years when a confir­ matory examination was performed (100). The prevalence of vibratory perception abnormalities in adult patients is highly dependent on the site of measurement. The more distal the measurement, the higher the prevalence, even from the lateral malleolus to the hallux (101). Temporal trends can be an important consideration in assessing the incidence of DSPN. Data from the EDC revealed a decline in the incidence of DSPN over a period of years (102). Among those with a 25-year duration of type 1 diabetes, the cumulative incidence for those diagnosed between 1970 and 1974 was significantly lower than among those diagnosed between 1965 and 1969. The prevalences of the various
