Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


diabetes had neurop­ athy of sufficient severity to put them at risk of foot ulceration attributable to insensitivity (83). However, in a study of type 2 diabetes patients that utilized the 10 g monofilament, the development of insensitivity was not marked in the years following diagnosis (106). DSPN usually persists once it occurs. This is especially evident from such measures as QST and nerve conduction. Although pain from neuropathy can eventually remit, this is not necessarily attributable to improvement in neuropathy. In one study (117), a slight improvement in electro­ physiological testing with pain remission was evident. Patients with pain remission tended to develop their symptoms after a metabolic change, weight loss, or a short duration of diabetes. In a clinical trial of Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes (79), intensive insulin treatment with multiple insulin injections was associated with an improvement of DSPN. This was mainly based on improvement in nerve conduction studies. There is some evidence that the rate of progression becomes more rapid after decreased sensation is first evident (118,119). This has been observed both with regard to vibration and thermal thresholds. Risk Factors Among studies of type 1 diabetes patients, the DCCT (1,2,4) has provided the most definitive information of the association between DSPN and the degree of glycemia. During the DCCT, the prevalence of confirmed DSPN (defined as at least two positive findings among sensory symptoms, signs, or reflex abnor­ malities, and abnormal nerve conduction studies in two or more nerves among the median, peroneal, and sural nerves) increased slightly after an average follow-up of 6.5 years among the inten­ sive treatment group participants (from 7% to 9%), but substantially more in the conventional treatment subjects (from 5% to 17%) (1). Adjusting for the presence of confirmed DSPN at baseline in the DCCT, the risk reduction for incident neuropathy with intensive treatment was 64% (95% CI 45%–76%) (1,2,78). Observational studies have also shown associations between the occurrence of DSPN and glucose levels (76,105). In the WESDR of type 1 diabetes patients, it was estimated that a 2% decrease in glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) values over 4 years would be associ­ ated with a 9%–23% decrease (depending upon the study group) in the 10-year inci­ dence of the loss of tactile sensation (76). In the EURODIAB study, the prevalence of DSPN increased with increasing A1c values (120). Data from clinical trials of type 2 diabetes patients have
