Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


the loss of tactile sensation (76). In the EURODIAB study, the prevalence of DSPN increased with increasing A1c values (120). Data from clinical trials of type 2 diabetes patients have mostly supported the asso­ ciation between DSPN and the degree of glycemia (27). In the UKPDS (83), a large trial designed to assess the impact of glucose control in type 2 diabetes patients, the incidence of a decline in vibratory sensation was lower in the intensive treatment group than in the conventional treatment group after 15 years of follow-up. However, differences between the groups were marginal when the intervals of follow-up were shorter. As mentioned, in the clinical trial of Japanese type 2 diabetes patients (79), those on more insulin injections had better neurologic outcomes. Although the ACCORD trial of type 2 diabetes patients was terminated early, intensive glucose control was associated with a reduction 23–12 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition in the prevalence of several DSPN measures after 5 years of follow-up (80). However, in the Veteran Affairs Diabetes Trial (VADT) of type 2 diabetes patients, despite appreciable A1c differences between the intervention and control groups, there was little difference in the occurrence of DSPN (121). It should be noted that the VADT relied heavily on self-reporting, and DSPN was not a primary outcome measure (27). Data from the NHANES 1999–2004 were analyzed for Diabetes in America to examine the relation between sensory impairment (as indicated by ≥1 areas in the foot insensate to a 10 g monofilament) and A1c among individuals age ≥40 years with diabetes. Table 23.4 shows the percentages with ≥1 incorrect responses to monofilament stimulation according to A1c categories among those with diag­ nosed diabetes. The percentage tended to increase with increasing A1c levels (from 23.6% for A1c <7.0% [<53 mmol/mol] to 36.7% for A1c ≥11.0% [≥97 mmol/mol]). Those in the A1c <7.0% category had a substantially higher percentage of mono­ filament scores ≥1 than did those with normal glucose levels (23.6% vs. 8.5%, p<0.001). Despite evidence that DSPN is associ­ ated with the degree of glycemia, there is much more to be learned about the nature of that relationship. For instance, it has been postulated that higher glucose levels for even a limited period could have a marked impact on the risk of DSPN. Follow-up data from the EDIC study of former DCCT subjects have been utilized to assess whether there is a “metabolic
