Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


could have a marked impact on the risk of DSPN. Follow-up data from the EDIC study of former DCCT subjects have been utilized to assess whether there is a “metabolic memory” effect for DSPN. When DCCT participants were followed after the trial’s completion, DSPN continued to be more common in the conventional treatment group several years later, in spite of a narrowing in the A1c levels between the groups, which were no longer different starting at EDIC year 5 (39). Since the neurologic assessments for that study were less extensive than they were in the DCCT, a subsequent EDIC study of former DCCT participants was performed with the entire battery of DCCT assessments (4,122). Although there was a significant difference in the raw incidence, with an adjustment for neurologic status at the end of the DCCT, there was no longer evidence of a metabolic memory effect on the primary DSPN endpoint. However, the difference persisted for nerve conduction studies (4,78). Glucose variability has been assessed as a risk factor for DSPN. In studies that have examined the possible impact of such variability, findings have been incon­ sistent (123,124). Constitutional factors can influence the risk of DSPN. Height is a risk factor (101,103,106,125), with an increasing effect the more distal the assessment (101). The basis for this is not known, but it is possible that height is a surrogate for nerve length; longer nerves could be more susceptible to pathologic factors. Neurologic function declines with age in both diabetic and nondiabetic popu­ lations (126). Moreover, associations of DSPN with other risk factors can vary with age (77). Studies have shown associations between DSPN and genetic factors in both type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes patients (127,128). Some studies have shown associations of DSPN with blood pressure and lipid measures (120), possible surrogates of vascular disease. Findings of studies examining associations of DSPN with alcohol consumption (101,106,125) and cigarette smoking (101,106,125,129) have been inconsistent. Information regarding risk factors for diabetic hearing loss is limited. In the NHANES 1999–2004 (130), hearing loss was associated with DSPN, low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) choles­ terol levels, and coronary heart disease. Interestingly, there was no association of hearing loss with either the duration of diabetes or the degree of glucose control. CARDIOVASCULAR AUTONOMIC NEUROPATHY Incidence and Prevalence The incidence and prevalence of CAN have varied substantially among studies. Such data are highly dependent on the diagnostic
