Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


the degree of glucose control. CARDIOVASCULAR AUTONOMIC NEUROPATHY Incidence and Prevalence The incidence and prevalence of CAN have varied substantially among studies. Such data are highly dependent on the diagnostic criteria, type of tests, definitions of normal, and patient characteristics (27). Among the DCCT participants who had normal autonomic function at base­ line, <10% of the conventional and <5% of intensive treatment groups were found to have CAN after approximately 6 years of follow-up (1,3). In contrast, in a European cohort of patients with diabetes contempo­ rary with the DCCT cohort, abnormalities in individual indices of heart rate variability were reported in up to 31% (131). CAN increases substantially with diabetes duration regardless of type of diabetes (5,23,28,132). Evaluations performed after 13–14 years of follow-up of the DCCT participants enrolled in the EDIC study demonstrated CAN prevalence rates as high as 35% in the conventionally treated cohort (5). In the EURODIAB study, autonomic dysfunction was present in one-third of type 1 diabetes patients at follow-up (133). Prevalence rates of 60% and higher were reported in cohorts of patients with longstanding type 2 diabetes (28,53,134) and in patients with longstanding type 1 diabetes who were candidates for a potential pancreas trans­ plantation (135). Estimates of prevalence for other mani­ festations of DAN, such as gastrointestinal manifestations, bladder dysfunction, and erectile dysfunction, have been reported to be at least 25% or higher in populations with longstanding type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes that have been studied (30,63). Temporal trends should also be consid­ ered. Among those with a 20-year duration of type 1 diabetes in the EDC, the incidence of symptomatic autonomic neuropathy steadily declined comparing those diagnosed between 1965 and 1969 with those diagnosed between 1975 and 1980 (p<0.05). However, the difference in the decline among those with a 25-year duration was borderline (p<0.06) (102). Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes 23–13 Natural History The natural history of CAN is not well defined. Changes in CAN measures and a possible shift in the sympathetic/para­ sympathetic balance favoring sympathetic tone were described in individuals with glucose values in a prediabetes range in the Framingham Heart Study (136). Abnormalities have also been observed in cohorts of individuals with impaired glucose tolerance (71,137). Although overt clinical manifestations of CAN are not usually present at the time of diagnosis of diabetes, abnormalities such as changes in HRV or CART can be present early in
