Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


Although overt clinical manifestations of CAN are not usually present at the time of diagnosis of diabetes, abnormalities such as changes in HRV or CART can be present early in its course. Children with diabetes have consistently been found to have higher average heart rates than those without diabetes (138,139). The basis for the increased heart rate is unknown, but a relation to autonomic dysfunction is a possibility. Risk Factors The DCCT demonstrated that intensive glucose management for type 1 diabetes reduced the incidence of CAN by 53% compared to conventional therapy (1,3). During EDIC, CAN progressed substan­ tially in both formerly treated groups, but the prevalence and incidence of CAN in EDIC remained significantly lower in the group that had been intensively treated than in the group that had been conven­ tionally treated, in spite of an equalization in the A1c between groups starting at EDIC year 5 (5). This suggests that meta­ bolic memory could be a determinant of CAN. Treatment group differences in the mean A1c level during DCCT and EDIC explained virtually all of the beneficial effect of intensive therapy on the risk of incident CAN. This finding supports the view that intensive treatment of type 1 diabetes should be initiated as early as is safely possible. In contrast to the DCCT, randomized clinical trials of type 2 diabetes patients tend to show little evidence of an asso­ ciation between CAN and the degree of glycemia. After 10 years of follow-up in the UKPDS, there was no difference between the intervention and control groups. The VA Cooperative Study demonstrated no difference in the prevalence of autonomic neuropathy in type 2 diabetes patients after 2 years of tight glycemic control compared to those without tight control (140). Similar results were reported by the VADT (121), although there is a question as to whether the CAN outcome measures were sufficiently sensitive. In a trial of type 2 diabetes Japanese patients (79), there were no significant differences in the prevalence of postural hypotension or abnormal heart rate variation between the intensively and conventionally treated groups. Associations between CAN and glucose levels have been found in observational studies of type 1 diabetes patients (133,141,142). Among young type 1 diabetes patients in the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study, decreased HRV was more evident in those with A1c ≥7.5% (≥58 mmol/mol) (143). Data pertaining to a role of glucose variability in
