Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


based on self-report. Normal glucose is based on fasting plasma glucose <100 mg/dL and A1c <5.7%. Conversions for A1c and glucose values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. A1c, glycosylated hemoglobin. * p<0.001 compared to persons with normal glucose levels SOURCE: National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys 1999–2004 SECONDARY COMPLICATIONS: DIABETIC FOOT ULCERS/CHARCOT NEUROARTHROPATHY Although end-stage complications of diabetic neuropathies, including foot ulceration and Charcot neuroarthrop­ athy, are discussed in detail in Chapter 20 Peripheral Arterial Disease, Foot Ulcers, Lower Extremity Amputations, and Diabetes, brief mention is made here. Several longitudinal studies have confirmed that DSPN is a major contrib­ utory factor in the pathogenesis of foot ulceration in diabetes (8,24,44,45). Screening of all patients with diabetes at least annually is recommended for identification of neuropathic feet at risk of ulceration (45). The ADA recommends that a simple clinical examination should be sufficient to identify the patient at risk of ulceration: for neuropathy, the use of monofilaments, plus one other test that might include simple vibration percep­ tion using a tuning fork or pin-prick, is sufficient (45). Any patient found to have neuropathy of sufficient severity to put them at risk of foot ulceration requires education in preventive foot care and podiatric care (45). Charcot neuroarthropathy is much less common than foot ulceration but is a clinically important and potentially devastating disorder; in the 21st century, diabetes is the most common cause of this condition in Western countries (147). A high degree of awareness and suspicion may enable early diagnosis and effective intervention. Any patient with known neuropathy who has a unilateral, unexplained, swollen, warm foot should be considered to have acute Charcot neuro­ arthropathy until proven otherwise. The epidemiology of diabetic foot ulcers is discussed in Chapter 20. As indicated in that chapter, estimates of foot ulcers vary depending on the national survey used to report the data. Based on data from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System 2000–2007, for which foot lesions were self-reported as ever having lesions that took more than 4 weeks to heal, prev­ alence was appreciable (11.0%–13.0%) among telephone-interviewed diabetic participants age ≥18 years (Table 20.20). Data from the National Hospital Discharge Survey, which is based on estimates of the percentage of hospital discharges that list foot ulcers, indicated that in 2002– 2009, foot ulcers were listed in 4.2% of discharges. The percentage decreased to 0.7% of discharges that did not
