Chapter 23: Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, study, autonomic, patients, dspn, glucose, clinical, nerve, diabetic neuropathy, risk, complications


of hospital discharges that list foot ulcers, indicated that in 2002– 2009, foot ulcers were listed in 4.2% of discharges. The percentage decreased to 0.7% of discharges that did not list diabetes (Table 20.19). Although several risk factors for diabetic foot ulcers have been identified, DSPN is perhaps the most important. This was strongly supported by evidence of an association between foot ulcers and the extent of vibration insensitivity in a case-control study (148). Moreover, prospective data have shown that DSPN is predictive of foot ulceration (149,150). Evidence suggests a pathogenetic sequence of hypoesthesia, increased plantar pressures, and finally, foot ulcer­ ation (151,152). Peripheral and Autonomic Neuropathy in Diabetes 23–15 CONCLUSIONS Even though the observed frequencies of diabetic neuropathy vary according to several factors, it is clearly a common complication of diabetes. Among risk factors for diabetic neuropathy that have been identified, several are modifiable. Among these, glycemia appears to be the most impactful with regard to the occur­ rence and progression of neuropathy. However, important questions remain regarding the influence of glycemia on neuropathy. These include: (1) Is there truly a metabolic memory, and if so, when is it most significant during pathogenesis? (2) Is the effect of hyperglycemia simply a matter of its degree and duration or are other factors important, such as glucose variability? (3) To what extent is the effect of hyperglycemia modified by genetic factors and constitutional factors, such as nerve length? Other modifiable risk factors also require further study. Diabetic neuropathy and its sequelae can have a major impact on the health and quality of life of those afflicted. Much has been learned about the disorder, but there is clearly a need to learn a great deal more, so that diabetic neuropathy can be effectively prevented and treated. LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS A1c . . . . . . . . . .glycosylated hemoglobin ACCORD . . . . .Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes ADA . . . . . . . . .American Diabetes Association BARI 2D . . . . . .Bypass Angioplasty Revascularization Investigation 2 Diabetes trial CAN . . . . . . . . .cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy CART . . . . . . . .cardiovascular autonomic reflex test CASE . . . . . . . .computer assisted sensory examination CCM . . . . . . . . .corneal confocal microscopy CI . . . .
