Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


TAKE HOME POINTS 1-The differential diagnosis of HH includes structural, functional and genetic abnormalities affecting the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. 2-While our understanding of the genetic basis of HH has expanded considerably in the past decade, mutations have only been identified in approximately 40% of patients to date. 3-The traditional view that congenital HH is a simple monogenic disorder has been challenged by the demonstration of oligogenicity, which helps explain the phenotypic variability underlying this condition. 4-HH is a treatable cause of male infertility with larger testicular size and higher baseline inhibin B levels predicting a favorable response to gonadotropin or GnRH therapy, while negative prognostic indicators include cryptorchidism and possibly prior androgen use. 5-While lifelong androgen replacement is necessary in most men with HH, a brief discontinuation of hormonal therapy should be considered in all cases given that reversibility has been demonstrated in up to 10% of cases. DEFINITIONS Pulsatile secretion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) from the hypothalamus is required for both the initiation and maintenance of the reproductive axis in the human. Pulsatile GnRH stimulates biosynthesis of luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) that in turn initiate both intra-gonadal testosterone production and spermatogenesis as well as systemic testosterone secretion and virilization. Failure of this episodic GnRH secretion or action, or disruption of gonadotropin secretion, results in the clinical syndrome of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH). Disorders causing HH are differentiated from primary testicular disease by the demonstration of low/normal gonadotropin levels in the setting of low testosterone concentrations and sperm counts ( Fig. 1 ). Congenital abnormalities leading to HH are rare but well described and are usually the consequence of deficient GnRH secretion occurring either in isolation (normosmic congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (nCHH)), or in association with anosmia (Kallmann syndrome (KS)). A growing number of loci have been associated with congenital GnRH deficiency and mutations in the GnRH receptor, as well as both LH-b and FSH-b subunits, have been reported. Acquired causes of HH are more common and can be due to any disorder that affects the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. Fig. 1 Schematic of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis in a normal adult male and in the setting of primary and secondary hypogonadism. NORMAL GnRH SECRETION ACROSS DEVELOPMENT IN THE MALE In the human, the pattern of GnRH-induced gonadotropin secretion is constantly changing during sexual development. Therefore, the establishment of a robust normative database is critical for understanding pathologic states like HH. Fetal/Neonatal Life
