Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


the pattern of GnRH-induced gonadotropin secretion is constantly changing during sexual development. Therefore, the establishment of a robust normative database is critical for understanding pathologic states like HH. Fetal/Neonatal Life GnRH neurons originate outside the central nervous system in the olfactory placode, migrate along the olfactory, terminalis, and vomeronasal nerves up the nasal septum, and through the cribriform plate to the forebrain, ultimately reaching their final destination in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (1). WhileGnRH neurons have been demonstrated in the fetal hypothalamus by 9 weeks gestation, it is not until 16 weeks that functional connections are established between these neurons and the portal system. From mid-gestation until 6 months of postnatal life, pulsatile secretion of GnRH stimulates gonadotropin biosynthesis and secretion that, in turn, initiates gonadal sex steroid production (2). Childhood Period During childhood, the hypothalamic-pituitary axis is not completely quiescent and is characterized by low amplitude GnRH secretion as mirrored by LH secretion using ultrasensitive LH assays (3). Puberty The onset of puberty is marked by sleep-entrained reactivation of the reproductive axis characterized by a striking increase in the amplitude of LH pulses with a lesser change in frequency (4). This nocturnal rise of LH secretion stimulates gonadal secretion of both sex steroids and inhibin B, which return to prepubertal levels during the daytime. As puberty progresses, secretion of gonadotropins occurs during both day and night, allowing sexual development to be completed. The precise neuroendocrine trigger to puberty is still unknown. However, it is likely to be a process that removes inhibition of GnRH release rather than one increasing GnRH synthesis as abundant GnRH mRNA is present in the hypothalamic neurons of primates at an equivalent developmental stage (5, 6). Adulthood During adulthood, gonadotropins are secreted in a pulsatile fashion. In the adult male, LH is secreted in pulses approximately every 2 hours (Fig. 2A) (7). However, considerable variability is observed in LH pulse patterns and there is a wide range of testosterone secretory patterns. Indeed, in 15% of normal men whose hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis was examined using frequent blood sampling, serum testosterone levels as low as 3.5 nmol/L were recorded (to convert to ng/dL, multiply by 28.6) following long inter-pulse intervals of LH secretion, although mean testosterone levels remained within the normal range ( Fig. 3 ). This within-patient variation must be considered when interpreting single LH and testosterone measurements obtained during the evaluation of a
