Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


testosterone levels remained within the normal range ( Fig. 3 ). This within-patient variation must be considered when interpreting single LH and testosterone measurements obtained during the evaluation of a male with suspected hypogonadism. This variability is particularly important in middle-aged and older men as up to 30% men that are found to have a low testosterone concentration, will have a normal level on repeat testing (8). Fig. 2 Spectrum of GnRH-induced LH secretion in men with GnRH deficiency. LH pulsations are indicated by asterisks. A, Normal adult male pattern of GnRH secretion with high amplitude regular LH pulsations and normal serum testosterone (T), testicular volume (TV) and sperm count; B, Disordered amplitude pattern of GnRH secretion in an CHH male, characterized by low amplitude LH pulsations, low serum T, and azoospermia; C, Sleep-entrained or developmental arrest pattern of LH secretion in an CHH male characterized by relatively low amplitude LH pulsations clustered during the night-time hours analogous to the pattern which normally occurs at puberty. Note that the TV is higher than in the subject with the apulsatile pattern; D, Apulsatile pattern of GnRH secretion in an CHH male with complete absence of endogenous LH pulsations, low serum T, prepubertal TV and azoospermia. Fig. 3 Frequent blood sampling (q 10 min for 24 h) of serum testosterone (T) and LH in a normal male. Note that a T level of 3.2 nmol/L (to convert to ng/dL, multiply by 28.6) which is in the hypogonadal range was recorded after a long interpulse interval of LH secretion. CLINICAL PRESENTATION The clinical features of GnRH and/or gonadotropin deficiency are typically first manifested at puberty, a time when there is normally a marked increase in GnRH secretion. The phenotypic presentation of HH varies with age of onset (congenital vs. acquired), severity (complete vs. partial), and duration (functional vs. permanent). HH may also be diagnosed in the neonatal period. The typical clinical phenotype is that of a male infant with normal sexual differentiation, cryptorchidism and micropenis in whom gonadotropin and sex steroid levels are inappropriately low given the normal activation of the HPG axis during this period. Early in fetal life, the testosterone production required for full sexual differentiation is thought to be stimulated by maternal hCG alone. However, endogenous secretion of GnRH in the late fetal/early neonatal periods appears necessary for inguino-scrotal descent of the testes and full growth of the external genitalia
