Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


by maternal hCG alone. However, endogenous secretion of GnRH in the late fetal/early neonatal periods appears necessary for inguino-scrotal descent of the testes and full growth of the external genitalia (9, 10). Accordingly, cryptorchidism and microphallus have been reported in up to 50% of patients with IHH and KS in some small series (11, 12) and may represent surrogate markers of failure of activation of GnRH secretion during the neonatal window. Most often, the diagnosis of HH is delayed until adolescence, when there is a failure to go through puberty. The clinical presentation includes lack of development of secondary sex characteristics, eunuchoidal body proportions (upper/lower body ratio <1 with an arm span 6 cm > standing height), a high-pitched voice, mild anemia, delayed bone age, and pre-pubertal testes (12). However, the syndrome is clinically heterogeneous in that some patients have evidence of partial spontaneous pubertal development reflected by larger gonadal size despite hypogonadal testosterone levels and inappropriately low gonadotropin levels. Gynecomastia is not a typical feature of GnRH deficiency given the hypogonadotropic state and is most commonly seen in patients treated with gonadotropins (13, 14). HH may also present after completion of puberty resulting in a disruption in reproductive function in adulthood characterized by decreased libido, erectile dysfunction and oligo- or azoospermia (15). DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism may be broadly classified into congenital or acquired disorders ( Table 1 ). Table 1 Differential Diagnosis of Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) View in own window Congenital HH Normosmic hypogonadotropic ypogonadism Kallmann syndrome Adult onset idiopathic HH Fertile eunuch syndrome Adrenal Hypoplasia Congenita Genetic defects of the gonadotropin subunits HH associated with other pituitary hormone deficiencies HH associated with obesity Prader-Willi syndrome Laurence- Moon-Biedl syndrome Acquired HH Structural Tumors Craniopharyngiomas Pituitary adenomas (e.g. prolactinoma, non functioning tumor) Germinoma, glioma, meningioma Infiltrative disorders Sarcoidosis, hemochromatosis, histiocytosis X Head trauma Radiation therapy Pituitary apoplexy Functional Exercise Dieting Anabolic steroids Glucocorticoid therapy Narcotics Critical illness Congenital Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism CHH is characterized by an isolated defect in GnRH secretion as evidenced by: i) complete or partial absence of GnRH-induced LH pulsations ( Fig. 1 ) (16, 17); ii) normalization of pituitary-gonadal axis function in response to physiological regimens of exogenous GnRH replacement (16-18); iii) otherwise normal hormonal testing of the anterior pituitary including a normal ferritin level and; iv) normal imaging of the hypothalamic-pituitary region. CHH was first reported in association with anosmia and termed Kallmann syndrome (19).
