Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


of the anterior pituitary including a normal ferritin level and; iv) normal imaging of the hypothalamic-pituitary region. CHH was first reported in association with anosmia and termed Kallmann syndrome (19). However, it was subsequently appreciated that several patients with CHH lack evidence of an olfactory defect and thus have a normosmic form of CHH. While the majority of CHH patients present with lack of pubertal development, there is considerable clinical heterogeneity. Depending on the degree of prior spontaneous pubertal development, testicular size in men with CHH may range from prepubertal to near-normal adult testes. In addition to anosmia, a variety of other anomalies have been reported to occur in CHH with an increased frequency in the KS subset including cleft lip and palate, synkinesia, sensorineural deafness, cerebellar ataxia, renal agenesis, digital bony abnormalities and dental agenesis (19-21). Some of these clinical features are highly associated with particular genetic causes of KS so that the clinical phenotype can be utilized to prioritize genetic testing (22). Given that it is a rare disease, data on the incidence of CHH is limited with estimates varying from 1/10,000 to 1/86,000 (23, 24). Isolated GnRH deficiency occurs more commonly in men than in women. Based on our review of 250 consecutive cases seen at the Massachusetts GeneralHospital, the male:female ratio is 4:1. Variant or Partial Forms of GnRH Deficiency i) Adult onset IHH An acquired form of isolated GnRH deficiency termed adult-onset idiopathic HH was first reported in 1997 (15). In this group of patients, puberty occurs normally and is followed years later by a decrease in libido, sexual function and fertility. The biochemical profile of these patients is indistinguishable from subjects with congenital GnRH deficiency in that they have an apulsatile pattern of LH secretion associated with low serum testosterone levels. In addition, more than 90% of cases have normal restoration of the pituitary-gonadal axis when treated with physiologic GnRH replacement regimens supporting a hypothalamic defect as the origin of the disorder. Unlike patients with functional GnRH deficiency, no factors known to impair GnRH secretion transiently such as stress, exercise or weight loss have been identified in this population. In addition, longitudinal follow-up of these cases of adult-onset IHH for over a decade suggests that the neuroendocrine defect is permanent in that all remained frankly hypogonadal (25). ii) Fertile Eunuch Syndrome In 1950, McCullagh et al provided the first description of a patient with
