Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


that the neuroendocrine defect is permanent in that all remained frankly hypogonadal (25). ii) Fertile Eunuch Syndrome In 1950, McCullagh et al provided the first description of a patient with the fertile eunuch syndrome characterized by eunuchoidal proportions and lack of secondary sexual characteristics in the presence of normal size testes and preserved spermatogenesis (26). In this disorder, enfeebled endogenous GnRH secretion appears sufficient to achieve the intra-gonadal testosterone levels needed to support spermatogenesis and testicular growth, but is insufficient to induce virilization. The clinical picture of the fertile eunuch is rather similar to that of mid-pubertal boys; indeed, frequent blood sampling in two men with the fertile eunuch syndrome demonstrated a nocturnal rise of LH and testosterone secretion synchronous with sleep, analogous to the pattern seen in mid-puberty (27). In contrast, we described a patient with the fertile eunuch syndrome displaying a detectable but apulsatile pattern of LH secretion, who was found to harbor a partially inactivating mutation of the GnRH receptor (GnRH-R) (28). The clinical presentation of the fertile eunuch syndrome also reveals some similarity to adult onset IHH in that both are characterized by GnRH deficiency in association with normal or near-normal testicular size. However, “fertile eunuchs” are distinguished by the preservation of spermatogenesis and the achievement of fertility with testosterone or hCG therapy alone (29, 30). iii) Delayed puberty Frequently, there is a history of delayed, but otherwise normal, puberty among the families of patients with CHH (21). While the incidence of delayed puberty in the general population is less than 1% (31), rates of up to 12% have been observed in families with CHH (21). These data suggest that delay in initiating, but subsequent normal progression through, puberty may represent the mildest end of the phenotypic spectrum of CHH. Acquired Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism Functional Functional forms of HH are characterized by a transient defect in GnRH secretion. This type of presentation occurs most commonly in female hypogonadotropic subjects with hypothalamic amenorrhea (HA). In susceptible individuals, HA may be precipitated by factors such as significant weight loss, exercise or stress (32-34). In addition, a genetic predisposition to HA has also been identified with the demonstration of rare variants in genes associated with CHH in some women with this disorder (35). Typically, GnRH secretion will resume after correcting the underlying abnormality and menstruation will be restored. While in women the presence or absence of menses acts as a
