Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


this disorder (35). Typically, GnRH secretion will resume after correcting the underlying abnormality and menstruation will be restored. While in women the presence or absence of menses acts as a useful clinical marker of the functioning of the HPG axis, there is no comparable clinical marker in the male. Moderate to severe dietary restriction in otherwise healthy men has been shown to decrease testosterone levels by impairing secretion of GnRH (36, 37). In addition, some (38, 39) but not all (40) studies have shown that strenuous physical exercise may adversely affect testosterone concentrations. However to date, a clinical syndrome of functional GnRH deficiency in men that is analogous to HA has not been definitively established. Drug-Induced GnRH Deficiency Use of anabolic steroids may result in a functional form of HH manifested by decreased concentrations of both testosterone and dihydrotestosterone and a marked impairment of spermatogenesis (41, 42). While the suppression of the HPG axis induced by anabolic steroids is reversible, rate of recovery following cessation of steroid use is variable and can range from 4-12 months (41, 43). Chronic treatment with glucocorticoids may also lead to hypogonadism. In one study, 16 men with chronic pulmonary disease who received high-dose glucocorticoids for at least one month had a mean serum testosterone of 6.9 nmol/L, compared to 15.6 nmol/L in 11 men matched for age and disease (44). Given that serum LH levels did not increase in this study, these data suggest a predominantly central mechanism for glucocorticoid-induced hypogonadism. Chronic use of oral and intrathecal narcotic analgesics may also suppress LH secretion and result in reversible HH (45). A common side-effect of psychotropic medications such as phenothiazines or risperidone is hyperprolactinemia, which inhibits endogenous GnRH release resulting in HH (46). Critical Illness Any period of severe chronic (47), or acute illness such as surgery (48), myocardial infarction (49), burn injury (50), and renal disease (51) may result in low testosterone levels (52). Acute injury is accompanied by a prompt and direct suppression of Leydig cell function (53). When severe stress becomes prolonged, hypogonadotropism ensues largely due to attenuation of pulsatile LH release (53). Endogenous dopamine or opiates may be involved in the pathogenesis of HH induced by critical illness (52). Structural Structural lesions of the hypothalamus and pituitary can interfere with the normal pattern of GnRH and/or gonadotropin secretion. The majority of patients with HH secondary to such tumors have multiple pituitary
