Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


lesions of the hypothalamus and pituitary can interfere with the normal pattern of GnRH and/or gonadotropin secretion. The majority of patients with HH secondary to such tumors have multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies in addition to that of gonadotropins (54, 55). However, a mass lesion in the pituitary or hypothalamus is more likely to disrupt the secretion of gonadotropins than that of ACTH or TSH. Thus, patients may present with hypogonadism in the absence of adrenal or thyroid hormone deficiency. In children, craniopharyngioma is the most common tumor resulting in HH, and is often associated with growth retardation, visual field defects and diabetes insipidus. In adults, prolactinomas are the most frequent cause of HH and may do so by either interfering with GnRH secretion, or in the case of macroadenomas, by local destruction and compression of the gonadotropes. Hyperprolactinemia results in altered dopaminergic function, which has been shown to reduce GnRH mRNA levels and decrease serum levels of LH, FSH and testosterone (56, 57). Although men with hyperprolactinemia may develop galactorrhea, it occurs much less frequently than in women, due to lack of prior stimulation by estrogen and progesterone. Rarer causes of HH include infiltrative disorders of the hypothalamus or pituitary such as hemochromatosis, sarcoidosis, lymphocytic hypophysitis and histiocytosis, in which case the presence of systemic signs and symptoms frequently leads one to the diagnosis (58-59). Cranial irradiation for the treatment of CNS tumors or leukemia may also result in the gradual onset of hypothalamic-pituitary failure (60). The degree of impairment depends upon both the dose and type of radiation employed and typically reflects hypothalamic dysfunction since the hypothalamus is significantly more radiosensitive than the pituitary. In general, the younger the patient the greater the susceptibility to endocrine dysfunction following radiation therapy (60). Sudden and severe hemorrhage into the pituitary can also results in permanent impairment of pituitary function including hypogonadism (61). PATHOPHYSIOLOGY The combined use of both frequent blood sampling and genetic studies has contributed to our understanding of the pathophysiology of isolated GnRH deficiency. Due to its confinement within the hypophyseal-portal blood supply, direct sampling of GnRH is not feasible in the human. In addition, measurements of GnRH in the peripheral circulation do not accurately reflect its secretion due to its rapid half-life of 2-4 min (62, 63). Consequently, inferential approaches must be used to study GnRH secretion in the human. Traditionally, LH has been used as a surrogate
