Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


to its rapid half-life of 2-4 min (62, 63). Consequently, inferential approaches must be used to study GnRH secretion in the human. Traditionally, LH has been used as a surrogate marker of GnRH activity (64, 65). More recently, the pulsatile component of free alpha subunit (FAS) secretion has been shown to be tightly correlated with that of LH (66)and to be driven by GnRH based on its eradication by GnRH receptor blockade (67). Given its half-life of 12-15 min, FAS is useful in tracking GnRH secretion at fast pulse frequencies (68). Patterns of GnRH Secretion in Subjects with GnRH Deficiency A range of abnormalities in the neuroendocrine pattern of GnRH secretion mirrors the clinical spectrum of CHH. We examined pulsatile gonadotropin secretion in 50 men with isolated GnRH deficiency during 10-min blood sampling for up to 24 h (16, 17). The largest subset of patients (84%) had no detectable LH pulses (apulsatile pattern, Fig. 2D) and were found to have neither historical nor physical evidence of puberty, thus representing the most severe form of GnRH deficiency. A second pattern of GnRH secretion was observed in which LH pulses occurred at a normal frequency but were of diminished amplitude compared to those of normal men (decreased amplitude pattern, Fig. 2B). This decreased pulse amplitude pattern is suggestive of either enfeebled hypothalamic release of GnRH or a state of GnRH resistance as may be seen with a partial defect at the level of the GnRH-R. A third group of subjects demonstrated predominantly nocturnal LH pulsations (developmental arrest pattern, Fig. 2C); these patients had some testicular growth and a history consistent with an arrest of puberty. Finally, pulsatile LH activity appeared normal by RIA in one patient; however, LH bioactivity was absent when tested in the dispersed rat Leydig cell assay (69). Thus in CHH men, the spectrum of abnormalities in GnRH secretion or action is likely to contribute to the clinical and biochemical heterogeneity of this disorder. Genetics of CHH Considerable genetic heterogeneity has also been found to underlie CHH. Most cases of CHH are sporadic (80%), suggesting that either the frequency of spontaneous mutations in this disorder is high or that the etiology of many cases is not genetic. In the last decade considerable advances have been made in unraveling the genetic basis for CHH and to date, mutations have been identified in approximately 40% of cases (70). Unique genetic mechanisms
