Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


last decade considerable advances have been made in unraveling the genetic basis for CHH and to date, mutations have been identified in approximately 40% of cases (70). Unique genetic mechanisms have been described for both KS and nCHH. However, some probands with KS have family members with hypogonadism but normal olfaction (Fig. 4) and the same mutations have been shown to be associated with both KS and nCHH suggesting that they should no longer be viewed as distinct diagnostic subsets (71). Fig. 4. A family with GnRH deficiency and multiple affected members in two generations. The pedigree is compatible with autosomal dominant transmission with incomplete penetrance. Note the presence of GnRH deficiency both with and without anosmia in the same family. Human GnRH deficiency has traditionally been viewed as a monogenic disorder that could be inherited as an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked trait. However, the long appreciated phenotypic variability within and across families with single gene defects combined with the recent demonstration that patients with CHH may harbor a mutation in more than one gene (72, 73) suggest a more complex mode of inheritance. Indeed, a systematic study of nearly 400 patients with isolated GnRH deficiency who were screened for 8 known loci revealed 17% of patients harbor multiple mutations consistent with an oligogenic rather than a monogenic mode of inheritance (74). Kallmann Syndrome Gene (KAL1 ) Mutations in the KAL1 gene were the first characterized genetic defect reported to cause GnRH deficiency (75). Anosmin, the protein encoded by the KAL gene, shares homology with molecules involved in neural development and contains 4 contiguous fibronectin type III repeats found in neural cell adhesion molecules (76). Confirmation of the causative role of the KAL gene in KS was provided by a study of a KS fetus with a deletion from Xp22.31 to Xpter, i.e. including the entire gene. Histologic examination of the brain of this fetus demonstrated that migration of the GnRH and olfactory neurons was arrested just below the telencephalon at the cribriform plate (77). Therefore, mutations in KAL1 appear to cause premature termination of migration of both the olfactory and GnRH neurons to the brain resulting in anosmia and IHH. This profound defect of GnRH neuronal migration results in the complete failure of activation of the HPG axis in patients with X-linked KS (X-KS). Indeed, X-KS patients typically present with more severe forms of CHH characterized by
