Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


results in the complete failure of activation of the HPG axis in patients with X-linked KS (X-KS). Indeed, X-KS patients typically present with more severe forms of CHH characterized by a high incidence of microphallus, cryptorchidism, complete absence of puberty with small testes, and very low inhibin B levels (78, 79). Further, this subset of men with CHH has the poorest response to therapy to induce spermatogenesis (80). Mutations in KAL1 are distributed throughout the gene, although most point mutations cluster in the four fibronectin type III repeat domains (81-82). Most X-KS mutations cause alteration of splicing, frameshift or stop codons and result in synthesis of a truncated anosmin protein (83). Missense mutations have rarely been described (83, 84). There appears to be some variability in the phenotypic expression of mutations both within and between families (84, 85). No correlation has been demonstrated between phenotype and location of the mutation described (86). Autosomal Genes Despite the biology revealed by the X-linked cases, several lines of evidence suggest that autosomal genes account for the majority of familial cases. Of 36 familial cases with GnRH deficiency studied by Waldstreicher and colleagues, only 21% could be attributed to X-linkage (21). When the analysis was extended to include surrogate markers of IHH (isolated congenital anosmia and delayed puberty), the X-linked pedigrees comprised only 11%, autosomal recessive 25% and autosomal dominant 64%. These data suggest that in familial cases, the X-linked form of GnRH deficiency is the least common. GnRH1 and GNRHR Mutations Although an obvious candidate gene, mutations of GNRH1 , the gene encoding the preprohormone that is processed to GnRH, remained elusive for many years and it was not until 2009 that mutations in this gene were identified by two independent groups (87, 88). In the first report a homozygous GNRH1 frameshift mutation was identified in a brother and sister that completely deleted the GnRH decapeptide sequence resulting in severe GnRH deficiency manifested by complete absence of puberty (87). Exogenous GnRH administration was shown to restore normal LH pulsatility indicating normal pituitary responsiveness. While mutations in GNRH1 are a rare cause of CHH, loss-of-function mutations in the GnRH receptor are much more common with 22 novel mutations having been reported to date (89). In this autosomal recessive form of GnRH deficiency, affected patients are homozygous for one mutation or compound heterozygous (with two mutations, each on one allele), and in rare sporadic nIHH
