Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


In this autosomal recessive form of GnRH deficiency, affected patients are homozygous for one mutation or compound heterozygous (with two mutations, each on one allele), and in rare sporadic nIHH cases, heterozygous mutations have been identified (74). Patients harboring GNRHR mutations present with a wide phenotypic spectrum ranging from the fertile eunuch syndrome (28) to partial CHH (90, 91) to the most complete form of GnRH deficiency characterized by cryptorchidism, microphallus, undetectable gonadotropins, and absence of pubertal development (92-93). Patients with hypogonadism caused by inactivating mutations of the GnRH receptor tend to have a poor response to pulsatile GnRH administration (94). However, successful ovulation and conception have been described in a patient with an inactivating receptor mutation receiving high doses of pulsatile GnRH, thus indicating that many GnRH receptor mutations create a relative rather than an absolute resistance to pulsatile GnRH administration (95). Kisspeptin 1 receptor ( KISS1R : formerly GPR54) and its ligand KISS1 Linkage analysis of a large consanguineous family with HH identified this locus for autosomal recessive CHH on chromosome 19p13 (96). Shortly thereafter Seminara et al confirmed KISS1R as an important regulator of puberty in a different consanguineous family (97). Murine studies demonstrated a hypogonadal phenotype similar to that seen in the human that was responsive to exogenous GnRH (97). While mutations in KISS1R appear to be an uncommon cause of GnRH deficiency in the human accounting for <5% of cases, these discoveries opened a new area of exploration in relation to the genetics of puberty and GnRH biology upstream of the hypothalamus. Recently, heterozygous variants in KISS1 have been noted in association with CHH (98). Fibroblast Growth Factors The study of two patients affected by different contiguous gene syndromes, both of which included KS, led to the discovery of fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 ( FGFR1 ) as a gene associated with congenital GnRH deficiency (99). Interestingly, mutations in FGFR1 can cause both KS and nCHH (100, 101) and have been identified in as many as 10% of CHH cases. Patients harboring FGFR1 mutations exhibit a wide range of both reproductive and non-reproductive phenotypes including cleft palate, agenesis of the corpus callosum, dental agenesis, unilateral hearing loss, and skeletal anomalies (100-103). The variable expressivity of phenotypes among patients and family members harboring identical FGFR1 mutations is consistent with a more complex, oligogenic model for GnRH deficiency (74, 103). In 2008, a critical ligand for FGFR-1, FGF8,
