Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


among patients and family members harboring identical FGFR1 mutations is consistent with a more complex, oligogenic model for GnRH deficiency (74, 103). In 2008, a critical ligand for FGFR-1, FGF8, was found to be involved in GnRH neuron ontogeny (104). Subjects harboring FGF8 mutations also display a broad spectrum of pubertal development ranging from absent, to partial, to complete puberty (in a male with adult onset HH). Additionally, the non-reproductive associated phenotypes are wide ranging and include hearing loss and a variety of skeletal anomalies (high arched palate, cleft lip/palate, severe osteoporosis, camplodactyly, and hyperlaxity of the digits) (105). Further, the variable expressivity observed in FGFR1 families is also evident in family members harboring the same FGF8 mutation (103, 105). Recently, the key developmental role of FGF signaling in reproduction has been highlighted by the identification of mutations in genes encoding a broader range of modulators of the FGFR1 pathway including FGF17 and other members of the so-called FGF8 synexpression group (106). Mutations in these genes are associated with complex modes of inheritance and they are thought to act primarily as contributors to an oligogenic genetic architecture underlying CHH. Prokineticins ( PmROKR2 and PROK2 ). Similar to what has been seen with FGFR1 , mutations in the prokineticin system ( PROKR2 and PROK2 ) have been associated with both KS and nCHH (107-110) . It is unusual for homozygous mutations to occur and mutations in both ligand and receptor are typically heterozygous. In a review of a large cohort of KS patients harboring mutations in PROK2/PROKR2 , Sarfati and colleagues noted that those harboring biallelic mutations exhibit more severe and less variable reproductive phenotypes than those with monoallelic mutations (111). Neurokinins ( TAC3 and TACR3 ) The strategy of studying consanguineous families with CHH, which led to the discovery of KISS1R , was also successful in identifying mutations in other autosomal genes ( TAC3 and TACR3 ) with a hitherto unrecognized role in reproduction (112). Patients harboring mutations in TAC3 and TACR3 have a particularly high incidence of microphallus suggesting that this pathway may be important in regulating the “mini-puberty” of infancy (113). A second striking phenotype associated with mutations in this pathway is that recovery of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis has been observed in a significant number of patients (113). Further, careful characterization of patients harboring TAC3/TAC3R mutations reveals these patients exhibit low frequency GnRH pulses and a relatively elevated
