Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


has been observed in a significant number of patients (113). Further, careful characterization of patients harboring TAC3/TAC3R mutations reveals these patients exhibit low frequency GnRH pulses and a relatively elevated FSH/LH ratio, a biochemical clue for selective gene screening (114). Genetic Defects of the Gonadotropins Genetic defects in the genes encoding LH-b subunit and FSH-b are rare and have been summarized in a recent review (115). The initial case report of a male who failed to go through puberty identified a homozygous mutation in amino acid 54 of the LH-b subunit that rendered LH incapable of binding to its receptor (116). The mutant hormone had no biologic activity but had normal immunoreactivity. Testosterone levels were reduced in association with elevated LH and FSH levels. This clinical picture could easily be confused with primary hypogonadism had the patient not been shown to have a normal serum testosterone response to hCG administration. The first reported male with an FSH-b gene mutation (Cys82Arg missense) appeared normally virilized and had normal testosterone levels, but small testes, azoospermia, a high LH and a low FSH level (117). The second reported case of a man with an FSH-b gene mutation (Val61X) had very small testes (1-2 mL) and an unexpected absence of pubertal development; he was found to harbor an additional defect in Leydig cell function as evidenced by high LH and low testosterone levels (118). Other rare genetic syndromes associated with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism HH also occurs as one of a constellation of features in a number of rare syndromes including X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita (AHC) caused by defects in the DAX1 ( NROB1 ) gene (Xp21) (119, 120), CHARGE syndrome (coloboma, heart defects, atresia of the choanae, retardation of growth and development, genital anomaly, ear abnormalities) resulting from CHD7 (8q12.1) defects (121, 122), leptin deficiency (123, 124), and prohormone convertase 1/3 deficiency (5q15-21) (125). In addition, combined pituitary hormone deficiency has been linked with rare abnormalities in genes encoding transcription factors necessary for pituitary development. Mutations in the gene, PROP1 (Prophet of Pit-1) appear to be the most common cause of both familial and sporadic congenital combined pituitary hormone deficiency (126). Most patients with inactivating mutations in PROP1 exhibit low gonadotropin levels and fail to enter puberty as well as having additional deficiencies in GH, PRL, and TSH (126). However, there is a report of two sibships with a homozygous mutation, Arg120Cys in PROP1 in
