Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


enter puberty as well as having additional deficiencies in GH, PRL, and TSH (126). However, there is a report of two sibships with a homozygous mutation, Arg120Cys in PROP1 in which the affected children entered puberty spontaneously and then developed gonadotropin deficiency over time (127). The same sequence of events was observed in several children with mutations causing a complete loss of function raising questions as to whether this should more correctly be viewed as a model of acquired rather than congenital gonadotropin deficiency (128). Recently the critical role of PROK2, PROKR2 and FGF8 in the developing pituitary has been noted in the genetic overlap between KS and developmental disorders including combined pituitary hormone deficiency, septo-optic dysplasia, and holoprosencephaly (129, 130). Mutations in the gene SOX2 have been identified in patients with HH in association with anopthalmia or microphhalmia (131, 132), while SOX10 and IL17RD are key genes to consider when deafness is present in association with CHH (106, 133). EVALUATION Hypogonadism is defined as a defect in one of the two major functions of the testes i.e. production of testosterone and spermatogenesis. The presence of hypogonadism can reflect disorders intrinsic to the testes (primary or hypergonadotropic hypogonadism) or disorders of the pituitary or hypothalamus (secondary or hypogonadotropic hypogonadism). These two entities can be distinguished by measuring serum LH and FSH concentrations (Fig. 5). Primary hypogonadism is characterized by a low serum testosterone level and oligo- or azoospermia in the presence of elevated serum LH and FSH concentrations. In contrast, secondary hypogonadism is diagnosed in the setting of a low testosterone level and sperm count in association with low or inappropriately normal serum LH and FSH concentrations. Figure 5 Algorithm for evaluation of hypogonadism in a male. It is best to measure testosterone in a morning sample given the normal diurnal rhythm of testosterone secretion. Repeat measurements should be performed if the initial reading is low. In secondary hypogonadism, measuring the serum LH response to a single bolus of exogenous GnRH is not helpful in distinguishing pituitary from hypothalamic disease, because a subnormal response may occur in both settings. Patients with HH due to congenital absence of hypothalamic GnRH secretion may have had no prior exposure to GnRH; in this setting, repeated administration of GnRH is needed to prime the gonadotropes to elicit a gonadotropin response. Characterization of the pulsatile pattern of LH secretion with frequent blood sampling is useful
