Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


setting, repeated administration of GnRH is needed to prime the gonadotropes to elicit a gonadotropin response. Characterization of the pulsatile pattern of LH secretion with frequent blood sampling is useful in refining the diagnosis in a research setting, but is not practical for clinical purposes. A semen analysis should be obtained to assess sperm production and the count, motility, and morphology determined. Based on WHO criteria, the parameters for a normal semen analysis are a sperm density ³ 15 million sperm/mL of ejaculate with total motility ³ 40% and strictly defined normal morphology of ³ 4% (134). Two normal semen analyses are sufficient to indicate that the sperm density and motility are normal. In the case of secondary hypogonadism, it is critical to assess the rest of the pituitary axis, including a prolactin level to ensure that the defect is isolated to the HPG axis. Transferrin saturation should be measured to exclude hemochromatosis. Patients with HH typically undergo adrenarche at a normal age and should therefore have normal adult male levels of DHEAS. Radiographic evaluation should include a bone age determination, MRI of the pituitary and hypothalamic area and, in adults, a DEXA scan to assess bone mineral density. Renal ultrasound should be considered to assess for unilateral renal agenesis in patients with KS especially those known to have a KAL1 mutation. The growing genetic heterogeneity of CHH poses a significant challenge to clinicians in the diagnostic work of patients. While in familial cases the mode of inheritance can be used to guide genetic testing, the majority of CHH cases are actually sporadic. However, a careful clinical evaluation can be helpful in prioritizing genetic testing. In a recent analysis of 219 patients with KS the following clinical features were highly associated with specific gene defects: synkinesia ( KAL1 ), dental agenesis ( FGF8/FGFR1 ), digital bony abnormalities ( FGF8/FGFR1 ), and hearing loss ( CHD7 ) (135). Weaker associations were observed between renal agenesis and KAL1 , cleft lip/palate and FGF8/FGFR1, CHD7 and HS6ST1, and male reversal and FGF8/FGFR1 and HS6ST1 (135). TREATMENT Choosing the most appropriate treatment for men with HH should be based upon an informed discussion between the patient and his physician. Androgen therapy, whether by exogenous testosterone replacement or induction of endogenous testosterone production by hCG is needed in all HH patients. Androgens play a number of important physiologic roles in the human and are required
