Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


testosterone replacement or induction of endogenous testosterone production by hCG is needed in all HH patients. Androgens play a number of important physiologic roles in the human and are required not only for virilization and normal sexual function, but also for maintenance of both muscle and bone mass, as well as normal mood and cognition. While testosterone is the primary treatment modality used to induce and maintain secondary sexual characteristics and sexual function in men with hypogonadism, treatment with testosterone does not restore fertility. Therefore, in patients in whom fertility is the treatment goal, induction of gonadotropin secretion by pulsatile GnRH or exogenous gonadotropins is necessary. While hormone therapy is the mainstay of treatment for CHH, cryptorchidism, if present, should be treated surgically with orchidopexy, ideally before the age of 2 years to improve fertility outcomes and reduce the risk of future testicular malignancy (136). The traditional teaching has been that patients with CHH require life long therapy but the recent demonstration of reversal of hypogonadism suggests that this many not always be the case (113, 137, 138). In a study of a large cohort of men with CHH, 10% of cases demonstrated a sustained reversal after discontinuation of treatment. Reversal occurred across a spectrum of phenotypes including patients with and without anosmia and those with absent or partial spontaneous puberty (137). A key, but sometimes subtle, clinical finding that can predict reversal is spontaneous testicular enlargement on testosterone therapy (137, 138). Reversal has been documented in patients with a variety of genetic defects including GNRHR , FGFR1 and CHD (137, 138) but has been shown to be particularly common in those with defects in the neurokinin pathway (113). While the mechanism of reversal in CHH is not understood it is possible is that exposure to sex steroids may enhance the plasticity of the neuronal network responsible for GnRH secretion. In light of these studies, it seems reasonable to recommend that a brief discontinuation of hormonal therapy be considered in patients with CHH to assess for reversibility. The trial period off treatment will depend on the formulation used but should be approximately 2-3 months for intramuscular testosterone and 4 weeks for those receiving transdermal preparations. Testosterone Substitution Testosterone is currently available in a variety of formulations for clinical use including injectable esters, transdermal patches, and gel preparations, each with its own unique pharmacokinetic profile. This topic is discussed in detail
