Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


available in a variety of formulations for clinical use including injectable esters, transdermal patches, and gel preparations, each with its own unique pharmacokinetic profile. This topic is discussed in detail in Chapter 2. Induction of Spermatogenesis In patients who desire fertility, the options to induce spermatogenesis include exogenous gonadotropins, which are freely available or pulsatile GnRH, use of which is restricted to specialist centers. Conventional therapy uses hCG as an LH substitute in conjunction with FSH in the form of either human menopausal gonadotropins, highly purified urinary FSH preparations or recombinant FSH formulations. Both FSH and LH seem to be required. The role of FSH in the initiation and maintenance of spermatogenesis in the human is controversial. There is discordance between the phenotype of men with mutations in the FSH receptor gene ( FSHR ) who are oligospermic (139) and those with mutations of the FSH-b subunit who are azoospermic (117, 118). If one assumes that the FSHR mutations were able to abolish FSH action completely, this report suggests that LH and testosterone alone are sufficient to induce spermatogenesis given that all five reported cases had sperm in the ejaculate and two had fathered children (139). However, the demonstration that the two patients with a mutation in the FSH-ß subunit were azoospermic (117, 118) suggests that the degree of inactivation of the FSH-R may have been incomplete. However, interpretation of this report is confounded by the fact that one of these patients also had hypogonadal testosterone levels so that the azoospermia in this case could not be attributed to lack of FSH alone (118). The importance of FSH in initiating spermatogenesis is further called in to question by the demonstration that in a subset of patients with HH and larger testicular size, spermatogenesis can be stimulated with hCG alone (140). However, this group largely comprises men with the fertile eunuch syndrome (29, 30), who may well have sufficient endogenous FSH secretion to sustain normal spermatogenesis with hCG alone. Several other lines of evidence support a role for FSH in the maintenance of spermatogenesis. In contraceptive trials using testosterone esters, azoospermia is achieved only when serum FSH levels are rendered undetectable (141, 142). Similarly, there is a case report of a patient with a history of a hypophysectomy for a pituitary adenoma who was found to be fertile when treated with testosterone alone due a concomitant activating mutation of the FSH-R
