Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


patient with a history of a hypophysectomy for a pituitary adenoma who was found to be fertile when treated with testosterone alone due a concomitant activating mutation of the FSH-R (143). A small Finnish study of boys with very small testes (< 3mL) resulting from severe GnRH deficiency or panhypopituitarism following treatment of intracranial tumors showed that treatment with recombinant human FSH (r-hFSH) alone prior to induction of puberty with hCG and FSH increased testicular size leading the authors to postulate that priming with FSH may have beneficial effects on spermatogenesis later in life (144). We recently expanded these findings in a randomized, open label study of the effects of r-hFSH on both hormonal and histologic outcomes in a cohort of men with CHH and prepubertal testes (145). Seven men were randomized to 4 months of r-hFSH followed by 24 months of GnRH and six men received 24 months of pulsatile GnRH only. Treatment with r-hFSH resulted in a doubling of testicular size, increased inhibin B levels into the normal range, and induced Sertoli cell and spermatagonia proliferation. All men receiving r-hFH pretreatment developed sperm in the ejaculate versus 4/6 of the GnRH only group and trended towards higher maximal sperm counts. However, given the small sample size r-hFSH pretreatment was not shown to be statistically superior to GnRH alone (145). In addition to FSH, adequate intra-testicular testosterone concentrations are also essential for normal spermatogenesis as illustrated by a study of hypogonadal men in which spermatogenesis could be induced by the combination of hCG and hMG but not by a regimen comprising purified FSH and testosterone (146). In summary, the evidence suggests that qualitatively and quantitatively normal spermatogenesis is best maintained in the presence of both FSH and LH-induced T secretion. 1. Exogenous Gonadotropin Therapy The typical gonadotropin regimen for induction of spermatogenesis in men comprises hCG in combination with FSH. Purified hCG is an effective substitute for LH given the structural homology between these 2 hormones which act through the same receptor on Leydig cells. While a variety of FSH formulations are now available in different countries, there is little to choose between them in terms of therapeutic efficacy. Traditionally, FSH has been administered in the form of human menopausal gonadotropins (hMG) derived from the urine of postmenopausal women. Although hMG has both FSH and LH activity, FSH activity predominates and LH activity is so low that combined administration
