Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


menopausal gonadotropins (hMG) derived from the urine of postmenopausal women. Although hMG has both FSH and LH activity, FSH activity predominates and LH activity is so low that combined administration with hCG is necessary to achieve fertility. Subsequently, highly purified urinary FSH preparations were developed, which have enhanced specific activity in comparison to hMG (10,000 IU/mg of protein vs 150 IU/mg of protein for hMG). In the early 1990s, r-hFSH formulations were developed, which have greater purity and specific activity than any of the urinary preparations and no intrinsic LH activity (147, 148). r-hFSH is produced in genetically engineered Chinese hamster ovary cells, in which the genes encoding the alpha and beta subunits have been introduced using recombinant DNA technology (147). Pharmacokinetic studies of r-hFSH indicate a half-life of 48 ± 5 h and a dose-dependent increase in the serum level of FSH (147). In our experience, the subcutaneous route of administration is as effective as the intramuscular route for both gonadotropins and significantly increases patient compliance. Therapy is typically initiated with hCG alone at a dose of 1,000 IU on alternate days and the dose titrated based on trough testosterone levels and testicular growth (149). Alternatively, recombinant human hCG can also be administered subcutaneously from a prefilled syringe. In some patients the dose of hCG can be decreased over time as testicular size increases. In the majority of patients with larger testes at baseline, spermatogenesis can be initiated with hCG alone most likely due to residual FSH secretion (140, 150). Once there is a plateau in the response to hCG which typically occurs at around 6 months, therapy with FSH (in one of the three forms described above) should be added at a dose of 75 IU on alternate days. If sperm output and testicular growth remain suboptimal the dose of FSH can be gradually increased to 150 U daily. Continuation of this combined regimen for 12-24 months induces testicular growth in almost all patients, spermatogenesis in approximately 80% and pregnancy rates in the range of 50% (151-153). In an Australian study of 75 men with HH treated with gonadotropins the median time for sperm to appear in the ejaculate was 7.1 months and for conception was just over 28 months (152). Similar data were reported in a compilation of clinical trial data from Asian, European, Australian and American patients (153). Factors predictive of better outcome include larger baseline
