Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


28 months (152). Similar data were reported in a compilation of clinical trial data from Asian, European, Australian and American patients (153). Factors predictive of better outcome include larger baseline testicular size and absence of cryptorchidism. The Australian study reported that prior androgen use is also a negative prognostic indicator of response (152). While the study investigators propose that gonadotropin therapy be considered to induce puberty based on their results, confirmation that such an approach is superior to the conventional practice of giving testosterone would require a large clinical trial the logistics of which would be challenging given the rarity of this patient population. Gynecomastia is the most common side effect of gonadotropin therapy and is due to hCG stimulation of aromatase causing increased secretion of estradiol. This undesirable side effect can be prevented by using the lowest dose of hCG capable of maintaining serum testosterone levels towards the lower end of the normal range. In the majority of HH patients treated with gonadotropins sperm density remains below the normal range. However, failure to achieve a normal sperm density does not preclude fertility. Indeed, the median sperm concentrations reported at conception range from 5-8 million/mL (140, 152). While spermatogenesis can be initiated even in patients with very small testes (18, 140), a longer duration of therapy is typically required and it may take up to 24 months for spermatogenesis to be induced. Accordingly when discussing the issue of fertility with patients, we recommend that they start treatment at least 6 to 12 months prior to the time at which fertility is desired. Once pregnancy is achieved, we advise continuing therapy until at least the second trimester. If the couple plans to have another child in the near future, then hCG monotherapy should be continued. However, if a long interval is expected to elapse before the next pregnancy, it may be more convenient for the patient to resume testosterone therapy. Patients should also be offered the option of storing sperm for subsequent use in intrauterine insemination or intracytoplasmic sperm injection. In patients in whom the combination of hCG and FSH is required to induce spermatogenesis initially, treatment with hCG alone may be sufficient for subsequent pregnancies due to larger testicular size. In patients with panhypopituitarism who fail to respond to gonadotropin therapy, the addition of recombinant growth hormone (rGH) therapy should be considered. It is thought that a direct effect of
