Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


In patients with panhypopituitarism who fail to respond to gonadotropin therapy, the addition of recombinant growth hormone (rGH) therapy should be considered. It is thought that a direct effect of growth hormone on Leydig cells may play a role in the delayed puberty encountered commonly in patients with isolated growth hormone deficiency (154, 155). While small non-randomized studies suggest that rGH may enhance the testosterone response to hCG administration (154), larger, randomized studies are needed before a definitive decision about the benefit of rGH in inducing spermatogenesis in men with hypopituitarism can be reached. 2. Pulsatile GnRH Therapy The alternative to gonadotropin therapy is pulsatile administration of GnRH, which may be administered by a programmable, portable mini-infusion pump ( Fig. 6 ) (156). While intravenous administration produces the most physiologic GnRH pulse contour and ensuing LH response (157), the subcutaneous route is clearly more practical for the long term treatment required to stimulate spermatogenesis. Based on our normative data (7), the frequency of GnRH administration that we employ is every 2 hours. The dose of GnRH is titrated for each individual to ensure normalization of testosterone, LH and FSH and varies from 25 to 600 ng/kg per bolus. Patients on longterm therapy are monitored with serum testosterone and gonadotropin levels at monthly intervals. Once testicular volume reaches 6-8 mL, regular semen analyses are obtained. The majority of patients require treatment for 18-24 months to maximize testicular growth and achieve spermatogenesis, although the time taken to reach these endpoints tends to be shorter in those with a larger initial gonadal size. In our analysis of 76 men with CHH, pulsatile GnRH restored normal testosterone levels in 93% of cases and was successful in inducing spermatogenesis in 77% by 12 months and 82% by 24 months (158). As with gonadotropin therapy, testicular size is an important predictor of successful treatment while negative predictors include a history of cryptorchidism and a pre-treatment inhibin B level <60 pg/mL (158). Fig. 6 LH and testosterone (T) at baseline and in response to GnRH therapy in a man with complete GnRH deficiency. Baseline LH secretion pattern is apulsatile with a hypogonadal T level. Exogenous pulsatile GnRH therapy administered every 2 h stimulates normal LH pulses which in turn induce a normal serum T level. If pulsatile GnRH treatment fails, a mutation of GNRHR should be considered (94) and genetic testing arranged, if available. A second cause
