Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism (HH) and Gonadotropin Therapy
KEYWORDS: gnrh, patients, mutations, hypogonadism, hormone, men, clinical, testosterone, secretion, normal, deficiency, endocrinol, hypogonadotropic, clin, syndrome


in turn induce a normal serum T level. If pulsatile GnRH treatment fails, a mutation of GNRHR should be considered (94) and genetic testing arranged, if available. A second cause of failure of pulsatile GnRH treatment is the appearance of anti-GnRH antibodies , which typically occur in the setting of erratic compliance and are associated with a progressive decrease in T and gonadotropins levels. Both exogenous gonadotropins and pulsatile GnRH are very effective in stimulating spermatogenesis. Most studies have no shown no advantage of either therapy in terms of testicular growth, onset of spermatogenesis, final sperm counts or pregnancy rates (151, 159). However, pulsatile GnRH therapy is not approved for induction of spermatogenesis by the Food and Drug Administration in the United States, and its use is thus confined to specialist centers. Assisted Reproductive Technology With the advances that have been made in the area of assisted reproductive technology (ART), couples who would previously have been offered donor insemination or adoption are now achieving pregnancies despite persistent severe impairments in sperm number and/or quality after hormonal therapy. While male factor infertility was initially considered a contraindication to in vitro fertilization (IVF), IVF is now considered as an acceptable treatment option for the infertile male. However, for men with severe male factor infertility, IVF is often unsuccessful and more sophisticated techniques to assist fertilization such as intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) are required. The success rates of ICSI are high with fertilization rates of 50-60% and pregnancy rates of ~30% per cycle. If no sperm are present in the ejaculate, sperm retrieved either from epididymal aspiration or from testicular aspiration/biopsy can be used successfully for ICSI. (See Chapter 7) The timeframe for referring men who are undergoing therapy to stimulate spermatogenesis for ART has changed in the last decade as both access to ICSI and success rates have improved. In the study by Liu et al of pregnancy outcomes in men treated with gonadotropins, 7/58 pregnancies (12%) resulted from IVF (152). Early referral for ICSI should certainly be considered in couples where there is concern that reduced ovarian reserve due to the age of the female partner may pose an additional barrier to natural conception. However, for other couples lack of insurance coverage may make the procedure prohibitively expensive. In addition, couples may have concerns about the ethics or safety of ART given that follow up of children conceived by ICSI suggests
