Diseases from North America: focus on tick-borne
KEYWORDS: disease, lyme, treatment, lyme disease, early, diagnosis, patients, infection, infections, doxycycline, tests, clinical, tick-borne, testing, babesiosis


or encephalitis.3 Diagnosis The diagnosis of Lyme disease is based upon the clinical history, epidemiological risk of exposure to Ixodes ticks, physical exam fi ndings (especially for early localised disease) and/or serology. Patients presenting with early localised disease typically present with a characteristic rash (ie EM), which often has a central clearing or a bull’s eye appearance (Fig 1). Many patients who present at this early stage of disease will have a negative serological test. Thus, early Lyme disease is usually a clinical diagnosis. For patients presenting with later disease, a diagnosis of Lyme disease in a patient with a clinically compatible illness is supported by serological testing using a two-tier approach. CCMMJJ__1155__11--CCMMEE__NNaatthhaavviitthhaarraannaa..iinndddd 7744 1100//0011//1155 44::5533 AAMM CME Tropical medicine immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and, if positive or equivalent, a that doxycycline was not inferior to intravenous penicillin for confi rmatory Western blot test. For Western blot testing, CDC neuroborreliosis.8 criteria for positivity requires ≥5 bands for IgG and ≥2 bands for IgM. Although the sensitivity of two-tiered serological Babesia testing is poor (<30%) during the acute phase of infection, it is nearly 100% in patients with disseminated disease.4 Among Babesiosis is caused by intraerythrocytic protozoa and is most patients who receive early antimicrobial therapy, serology may commonly due to Babesia microti in the US.9 Although Babesia remain negative in the convalescent phase of infection due to species are also transmitted by the Ixodes scapularis ticks, elimination of the organism.1,5 infection has only been recognised in a limited proportion of The C6 peptide ELISA can also be used for diagnosis, the areas where Lyme is endemic; high incidence areas include although it is not routinely available. This test has a higher the chain of islands off the New England coast (eg Martha’s sensitivity and specifi city than the standard ELISA but Vineyard or Nantucket). Clinical features of infection are decreased specifi city compared with the two-tiered test. The similar to malaria and commonly include fevers, chills, sweats, C6 ELISA is able to detect an early IgG response, which usually myalgias and arthralgias. Laboratory fi ndings are notable for occurs before the development of ≥5 bands on Western blot.4 haemolytic anaemia, thrombocytopaenia and elevated liver and In addition, it does not rely on the IgM response that can be kidney function tests. Patients aged over 50 years and those who associated with false-positive results.6 are immunocompromised (eg HIV, malignancy and asplenia) are
