Diseases from North America: focus on tick-borne
KEYWORDS: disease, lyme, treatment, lyme disease, early, diagnosis, patients, infection, infections, doxycycline, tests, clinical, tick-borne, testing, babesiosis


on the IgM response that can be kidney function tests. Patients aged over 50 years and those who associated with false-positive results.6 are immunocompromised (eg HIV, malignancy and asplenia) are at higher risk for complicated disease. Severe babesiosis can Treatment present as acute respiratory failure, congestive heart failure, renal failure and/or disseminated intravascular coagulation.10 Doxycycline is the mainstay of treatment, except for pregnant women and children who should receive amoxicillin or Diagnosis cefuroxime. Treatment duration recommendations vary. In general, 14 days of treatment is recommended for patients The diagnosis is often made by microscopic identifi cation of with EM. One study comparing 10 days of doxycycline with the organism on Giemsa stains of thin blood fi lms. Although or without a single dose of ceftriaxone versus 20 days of Babesia can be confused with malaria parasites on blood Although 2–4 weeks is suffi cient for most patients, treatment ring forms and greater than two intraerythrocytic forms should be extended to four weeks in those presenting with (eg the tetrad known as the Maltese cross) (Fig 2). Serology arthritis. In the US, intravenous ceftriaxone is typically and/or polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing can also be recommended for the treatment of patients with acute used for diagnosis, especially for patients with a low level of neurological Lyme disease manifested by meningitis or parasitaemia.5 radiculopathy, as well as symptomatic carditis requiring hospitalisation.5 In Europe, doxycycline is often used for the Key points Tick-borne infections are recognised in many parts of North America and increasingly also in Europe. Empiric treatment should often be instituted based on clinical suspicion and epidemiological plausibility since serological tests are of limited value during early disease. Typical laboratory abnormalities include cytopenias and liver function test abnormalities and diagnosis is often confi rmed with serologies or blood fi lms (for Babesiosis, anaplasmosis or ehrlichiosis). Doxycycline is the mainstay of treatment for Lyme, anaplasmosis, ehrlichiosis, Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) and southern tick-associated rash illness (STARI). Babesiosis is treated with azithromycin and atovaquone for mild disease or clindamycin and quinine for severe disease. KEYWORDS: tick-borne, Lyme, Babesia, Anaplasma, Rocky Fig 2. Babesia sp in Giemsa-stained thin blood fi lm demonstrating the Mountain spotted fever ■ tetrad of merozoite forms known as the Maltese cross. Image obtained from CDC-DPDx. © Royal College of Physicians 2015. All rights reserved. 75 CCMMJJ__1155__11--CCMMEE__NNaatthhaavviitthhaarraannaa..iinndddd 7755 1100//0011//1155 44::5533 AAMM CME Tropical medicine Treatment A 7–10 day course
