Diseases from North America: focus on tick-borne
KEYWORDS: disease, lyme, treatment, lyme disease, early, diagnosis, patients, infection, infections, doxycycline, tests, clinical, tick-borne, testing, babesiosis


the Maltese cross. Image obtained from CDC-DPDx. © Royal College of Physicians 2015. All rights reserved. 75 CCMMJJ__1155__11--CCMMEE__NNaatthhaavviitthhaarraannaa..iinndddd 7755 1100//0011//1155 44::5533 AAMM CME Tropical medicine Treatment A 7–10 day course of atovaquone and azithromycin is recommended for uncomplicated babesiosis. Higher doses of azithromycin (600–1,000 mg) may be used for immunocompromised hosts. For severe disease, a minimum 10-day course of clindamycin (usually given intravenously) and quinine is recommended. In addition, partial or complete red blood cell exchange transfusion may be needed for individuals with high-grade parasitaemia (>10%), severe hemolysis, and/or renal, hepatic or respiratory compromise. These patients should be closely monitored with daily measurement of haematocrit and parasitaemia. Exchange transfusion should be continued until the level of parasitaemia has decreased to <5%. Human monocytic ehrlichiosis and human granulocytic anaplasmosis Ehrlichia chaffeensis causes human monocytic ehrlichiosis (HME) and Anaplasma phagocytophilum causes human granulocytic anaplasmosis (HGA). These are intracellular bacteria that grow within leukocytes. The areas of highest Fig 3. Ehrlichiosis evidenced by intracytoplasmic inclusions (morulae) HGA incidence in the US are Rhode Island, Minnesota, on Giemsa-stained blood fi lm. Image obtained from CDC-DPDx. Connecticut and Wisconsin; however, the global incidence is rising with cases being recognised in many parts of Europe.11 HME is endemic in the south-east and south-central regions of the US, such as Missouri, Oklahoma and Tennessee.12 The Carolina, Tennessee, Oklahoma and Arkansas.12 Although early symptoms of HME and HGA can mimic a viral syndrome early symptoms mimic the viral prodrome seen with other (eg fever, chills and myalgias) and many immunocompetent patients may experience spontaneous resolution of infection. fever, headache and a rash that occurs in 60–70% of patients Associated laboratory abnormalities include leukopaenia, approximately two weeks after tick exposure. The rash is due thrombocytopaenia and raised transaminases. to small vessel vasculitis, and the classic fi nding of a rash starting at the wrists and ankles that progresses to the trunk Diagnosis only occurs in a minority (Fig 4). A diagnosis is typically made through serological testing that demonstrates a four-fold change or seroconversion. Specifi c IgM tests are only reactive in the fi rst 45–50 days after infection but IgG antibodies may remain positive for months or years. Additional diagnostic tests include visualisation of characteristic intracytoplasmic inclusions (morulae) on blood fi lm (Fig 3) and/ or PCR. These latter tests are most useful for identifying early disease when antibody formation may not yet be detectable. Treatment Based on
