NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, men, bph, events, bph-associated, diagnosis, bph-associated events, physician-diagnosed, author manuscript, author, manuscript, physician-diagnosed prostatitis, acute, later, development


Author Manuscript Urology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2009 March 1. Published in final edited form as: Urology. 2008 March ; 71(3): 475–479. doi:. Longitudinal Association between Prostatitis and Development of Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia 1 2 2 3 4 5 3Merck & Co, 351 North Sumneytown Pike, North Wales, PA, 19454 5Southern California Permanente Medical Group, Research and Evaluation, 100 S Low Robles, 2nd Floor, Pasadena, CA, 91101 Abstract OBJECTIVES—To determine whether physician-diagnosed prostatitis was associated with later development of development of BPH-associated events in a longitudinal, population-based sample of 2447 men residing in Olmsted County, Minnesota. METHODS—Medical records were reviewed for physician diagnosis of prostatitis and subsequent diagnoses of BPH, enlarged prostate, prostatism, and acute urinary retention. Records were also reviewed for medical or surgical treatments for BPH. Odds ratios were calculated to assess the associations between physician-diagnosed prostatitis and later development of development of BPH- associated events. RESULTS—Physician-diagnosed prostatitis was associated with a 2.4-fold increased odds of receiving a later diagnosis of prostatism, enlarged prostate, or BPH (OR: 2.44, 95% CI: 1.48, 4.01). Prostatitis was also associated with a 70% increased odds of requiring later treatment for BPH (OR: 1.69, 95% CI: 1.28, 2.22), and a non-significant increased odds of acute urinary retention (OR: 1.33, 95% CI: 0.89, 1.99). CONCLUSIONS—Physician-diagnosed prostatitis was associated with an increased risk of later onset of several BPH-associated events. Physician-diagnosed prostatitis may therefore be an early marker or a risk factor for development of later prostatic or urologic problems. Keywords benign prostatic hyperplasia; prostatitis; temporal association INTRODUCTION Prostatitis is the most common presenting diagnosis for men less than 50 years of age in outpatient urology clinics , with an estimated prevalence ranging from approximately 2% to 2,3 16%, depending on the population studied, and the definition used. Hallmark symptoms include pelvic pain and voiding symptoms, which significantly impact quality of life, and result in annual estimated costs of $84 million. Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) is also a common clinical syndrome among aging men that is typically diagnosed with the onset of lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS), increased NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript 6,7 prostate size, and decreased urinary flow rates in the absence of other causes . In Olmsted 8,9 County, MN, almost half of all men will develop LUTS as they age. There is not a perfect correlation between histologic BPH and development of LUTS, as some men
