NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, men, bph, events, bph-associated, diagnosis, bph-associated events, physician-diagnosed, author manuscript, author, manuscript, physician-diagnosed prostatitis, acute, later, development


8,9 County, MN, almost half of all men will develop LUTS as they age. There is not a perfect correlation between histologic BPH and development of LUTS, as some men develop histologic BPH, but not LUTS, while other men develop LUTS in the absence of significant histologic BPH. However, these data indicate that development of BPH-associated events is very common among aging men. Symptoms of prostatitis and symptoms of BPH overlap, and it can be difficult to determine whether one syndrome precedes the other, whether the two syndromes may exist concomitantly, or whether prostatitis might serve as a marker or risk factor for development of BPH-associated events. A number of investigators have found that men who have received a diagnosis of prostatitis are more likely to also receive a diagnosis of BPH compared to men 5,11-13 who have never been diagnosed with prostatitis However, these studies tended to be cross-sectional, where both prostatitis and BPH were measured at the same time, or they asked participants to recall prostatitis diagnoses that had occurred many years prior to assessing BPH- associated events. It has therefore been difficult to determine whether prostatitis might precede the development of BPH-associated events, and, as such, may be a marker or risk factor for later urologic problems. To address this question, we examined longitudinal data available in the Olmsted County Men’s Health Study to determine whether physician-diagnosed prostatitis was associated with later diagnosis of BPH-associated events. MATERIAL AND METHODS Study Population 8,14,15 Details related to the study population have been previously published. Briefly, a cohort of Caucasian men aged 40 to 79 was randomly selected from the 1990 Olmsted County, Minnesota population. After excluding men with pre-existing urologic conditions, 3874 men were asked to join the study, and 2115 (55%) agreed to participate. The cohort was actively followed on a biennial basis for fourteen years. Questionnaires were reviewed manually for completeness and consistency upon receipt. Discrepancies were resolved by the data coordinator via telephone contact. Data were entered into an electronic data base and subjected to on-line range and consistency checks. Assessment of Prostatitis Physician-diagnosed prostatitis was defined as the first medical record diagnosis of acute or chronic prostatitis occurring at any time prior to the onset of BPH-associated events. Details of how prostatitis was identified have been previously described. Briefly, all medical records of study participants who had received a diagnosis of prostatitis, or who had
