NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, men, bph, events, bph-associated, diagnosis, bph-associated events, physician-diagnosed, author manuscript, author, manuscript, physician-diagnosed prostatitis, acute, later, development


of BPH-associated events. Details of how prostatitis was identified have been previously described. Briefly, all medical records of study participants who had received a diagnosis of prostatitis, or who had reported having had prostatitis on the questionnaires, were reviewed. Prostatitis diagnoses were confirmed and The most prevalent symptoms observed during these episodes included pain in the lower back or urogenital region (94%), dysuria (40%), and frequency (35%). Concordances between data abstractors for assessing the occurrence of physician diagnosed acute and chronic prostatitis in a sub-study of 100 cases were 96% and 100%, respectively. Measurement of BPH-associated events Medical records were reviewed for diagnoses of prostatism, enlarged prostate, and BPH that occurred any time during the participant’s residence in Olmsted County, MN. Information on acute urinary retention and treatment for BPH (medications and surgery/procedures) was also Urology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2009 March 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript abstracted. Concordance between data abstractors for assessing diagnoses of prostatism, enlarged prostate or BPH in a sub-sample of 100 cases was 93%. Statistical Analysis Baseline characteristics of men with and without prostatitis were compared using Mantel- Haenszel chi-square tests. Logistic regression was used to estimate associations between physician-diagnosed prostatitis with BPH related-events. Multivariable models were used to RESULTS 265 (10.8%) participants received a physician diagnosis of prostatitis prior to any occurrence of BPH-associated events. The median time from the diagnosis of prostatitis to a BPH- (range: 0.0-48.7 years). The median time from a physician diagnosis of prostatitis to BPH of prostatitis to acute urinary retention was 6.0 years (range: 0.0-55.9). Men with physician-diagnosed prostatitis were more likely to later have a medical record report prostatitis (90% vs 78%, p<0.0001; Table 1). These men were also more likely to later receive treatment for BPH (32% vs 21%, p<0.0001), and to develop acute urinary retention (12% vs 8%, p=0.01). physician-diagnosed prostatitis were still more likely to have a later medical record report of BPH, prostatism, or enlarged prostate compared to men without a diagnosis of prostatitis (OR: with physician-diagnosed prostatitis were also more likely to later receive treatment for BPH (OR: 1.69, 95% CI: 1.28, 2.22). COMMENT Our results suggest that physician-diagnosed prostatitis is associated with an over two-fold increased risk of later developing BPH-associated events, and a 70% increased risk of later requiring medications or surgery for BPH. Additionally, while not statistically significant, our results also suggest that
