NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, men, bph, events, bph-associated, diagnosis, bph-associated events, physician-diagnosed, author manuscript, author, manuscript, physician-diagnosed prostatitis, acute, later, development


increased risk of later developing BPH-associated events, and a 70% increased risk of later requiring medications or surgery for BPH. Additionally, while not statistically significant, our results also suggest that men diagnosed with prostatitis may have a 33% increased risk of developing acute urinary retention. While a number of other studies have demonstrated associations between prostatitis and BPH, 5,11-13 our study had the advantage of being able to note the first physician diagnosis of prostatitis that occurred in Olmsted County, MN. Additionally, we followed men a median of 8.1 years until the first diagnosis of a BPH-associated event to establish a true temporal relationship between prostatitis and these BPH-associated events. It is currently unclear why prostatitis might predispose to the development of BPH, but prostatitis is associated with acute or chronic bacterial infection in about 5-10% of presenting cases. Chronic non-bacterial prostatitis or chronic pelvic pain syndrome accounts for the remaining 90-95% of presenting cases and may or may not be associated with the presence of leukocytes in the prostatic fluid. Therefore, while a perfect correlation does not exist between marker for prostatic infection and/or inflammation. Additionally, both chronic and acute inflammation have been frequently noted in prostate biopsy sections and in tissue obtained Urology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2009 March 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript 18-22 during prostatic resection for treatment of BPH, and it has been suggested that BPH may occur due to immune dysregulation. Inflammation has therefore been hypothesized to lead to the development of BPH. If physician-diagnosed prostatitis reflects the presence of prostatic inflammation, prostatitis may also represent a risk factor for the development of BPH. However, recent work by Nickel et al indicates that prostatitis (as measured by the he National Institutes of Health Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index; CPSI) was not strongly correlated with pathologic inflammation in biopsy samples from men enrolled in the REDUCE trial. CPSI- it is not clear that physician-diagnosed prostatitis is a better measure of inflammation than CPSI-diagnosed prostatitis. If this is the case, alternative measures that truly correlate with prostatic inflammation need to be developed. problems in men who are likely to eventually develop BPH-associated events. These men may experience early problems related to the prostate, be significantly bothered by such symptoms, and be more likely to return to their clinicians when any urologic symptoms recur. Therefore, it is possible that the association between
