NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, men, bph, events, bph-associated, diagnosis, bph-associated events, physician-diagnosed, author manuscript, author, manuscript, physician-diagnosed prostatitis, acute, later, development


the prostate, be significantly bothered by such symptoms, and be more likely to return to their clinicians when any urologic symptoms recur. Therefore, it is possible that the association between physician-diagnosed prostatitis and BPH-associated events was observed due to increased surveillance following the diagnosis of prostatitis. were unchanged. We also performed additional analyses controlling for presence of diabetes, coronary heart disease, and hypertension at baseline, as these conditions would represent a surrogate marker for increased physician visits. Our results were virtually unchanged after controlling for these conditions (data not shown), suggesting that surveillance bias may be less likely to account for the observed association between physician-diagnosed prostatitis and BPH-associated events. However, we were unable to specifically for total numbers of urologic visits, and heightened urologic surveillance may have been present in some men initially diagnosed with prostatitis. Men with physician-diagnosed prostatitis were also more likely to receive some type of BPH treatment compared to men without a diagnosis of prostatitis. This may have occurred for two reasons. First, treatment for BPH is a surrogate marker for presence of BPH, and as we saw an we expected to also see an association between physician-diagnosed prostatitis and later treatment for BPH. Alternatively, prostatitis itself presents a challenge to manage clinically As some of the symptoms of prostatitis are similar to symptoms of BPH, some BPH therapies represent a reasonable treatment option for managing prostatitis. However, the median time between diagnosis of prostatitis and treatment for BPH was 9.8 years, suggesting that a more likely explanation may be that presence of BPH treatment represents a diagnosis of BPH, rather than use of a BPH therapy for treatment of prostatitis itself. retention in a univariate analysis; however, these results were not statistically significant after of this association after adjustment could be attributed to low power, or that some BPH treatments reduce the risk of acute urinary retention. While not statistically significant, these results are consistent with those reported by Roehrborn et al who found that men with inflammatory infiltrates in prostate biopsies were also more likely to develop acute urinary retention. It is possible that an early diagnosis of prostatitis may identify men with prostatic inflammation that may then put them at increased risk for this severe outcome. Strengths of our study include the use of data from a longitudinal, population-based group of men. This allowed us to minimize some of the selection biases
