NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, men, bph, events, bph-associated, diagnosis, bph-associated events, physician-diagnosed, author manuscript, author, manuscript, physician-diagnosed prostatitis, acute, later, development


for this severe outcome. Strengths of our study include the use of data from a longitudinal, population-based group of men. This allowed us to minimize some of the selection biases that might otherwise occur in Urology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2009 March 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript expected to be substantially higher than that observed in the general population. In addition, the extensive medical records and long-term follow-up available for these men allowed us to detect incident prostate and urologic events, and to accurately determine the temporal relationship between prostatitis and BPH-related events. Limitations include the difficulty of diagnosing prostatitis, as most men with prostatitis will not have objective findings of prostatic infection or inflammation. The CPSI has been developed to standardize methods for identifying men with chronic prostatitis ; however, previous studies in our population have demonstrated a lack of correlation between physician- diagnosed prostatitis and CPSI-reported prostatitis. Additionally, objective criteria for 17 defining prostatitis have been lacking. Given these difficulties, the likelihood of at least some misclassification for prostatitis is high. For example, category IV prostatitis is asymptomatic and may only be diagnosed through prostate biopsy; these cases of prostatitis would not have come to our attention. Because of these difficulties, some of the men diagnosed with prostatitis may not truly have had this syndrome, while some men with prostatitis may not have been identified. Similar problems in diagnosing BPH also exist, and at least some of our outcomes will also have been misclassified. Interestingly, despite the likelihood of misclassification in both exposure and outcome, if the misclassification was random (both prostatitis and BPH are both over- and under-diagnosed), our results would be biased toward no association. However, if the misclassification was non-random, our results may be biased in either direction. We also only had data available for the first diagnosis of prostatitis, and were not able to identify men with multiple episodes of prostatitis versus single episodes. If prostatitis is a true risk factor for BPH-associated events, men with multiple episodes of prostatitis may be at higher risk for adverse urologic outcomes compared to men with few or no episodes. Therefore, our results may underestimate associations between prostatitis and these events. However, we examined the association between physician-diagnosed acute and chronic cases of prostatitis and found few differences in point estimates of associations between acute versus chronic prostatitis and BPH-associated events
