Chapter
KEYWORDS: eradication, disease, control, countries, costs, global, smallpox, vaccination, polio, ofthe, benefits, tion, benefit, health, world


Control and Eradication Mark Miller, Scott Barrett, and D. A. Henderson The Controversy: Control or Eradication? We cannot refrain altogether from examining the roots of this controversy if only because the extreme views for and against eradication have exerted and are still exerting a . . . highly detrimental influence on public health practice. —P. Yekutiel, Eradication of Infectious Diseases: A Critical Study Eradication ofan infectious disease is an extraordinary goal.Its endemic focus was serving to reinfect areas otherwise free of possibility became apparent as soon as Edward Jenner demon- yellow fever.In the 1930s,F.L.Soper set out to eradicate the strated an ability to provide immunity to smallpox.Writing in AedesaegyptivectorfromtheAmericas.By1961,Soperreported 1801,Jenner observed that,through broad application of vac- thathehadlargelysucceededexceptfortheUnitedStates,where cination,“it now becomes too manifest to admit ofcontroversy theprogramreceivedlittlesupport.Bythe1980s,Aedesaegypti that the annihilation of the Small Pox, the most dreadful hadbecomereestablishedinCentralandSouthAmerica. the power ofman to eradicate infection from the earth”(Dubos World Health Assembly (WHA) to undertake smallpox eradi- ceeded with more modest goals of local and regional disease eradication was not technically feasible. Instead, in 1955, control. Notable successes have occurred. Indeed, some dis- under the leadership of his successor, Marcolino Candau, eases now thought ofas “tropical”were previously endemic in WHO began a global effort to eradicate malaria primarily by temperate climates.Systematic application of hygiene,sanita- means of household spraying of DDT.The relatively sophisti- tion,environmental modification,vector control,and vaccines cated science ofmalaria control was abandoned in favor ofthis have led,in many countries,to the interruption oftransmission simplistic technology .Despite an expenditure of of microbes causing such diseases as cholera, malaria, and more than US$2 billion,the effort failed. yellow fever. Evenwhilethemalariaeradicationeffortwasunderway,the Intensive efforts to eliminate breeding sites of the yellow SovietUnion,in1958,proposedtotheWHAthatsmallpoxbe fevermosquitovector,Aedesaegypti,interruptedtransmission eradicated.Aresolutiontothiseffectwasofferedin1959and of this disease in Havana in 1901 and throughout Cuba soon passed unanimously. However, the resolution provided little thereafter.Subsequently,yellowfeverandmalariawereableto international funding or support. Over the next seven years, be controlled in Panama,thus permitting construction of the disease transmission was interrupted in some 30 countries in Panama Canal.In 1915,the Rockefeller Foundation launched Africa, Asia, and South America, but endemic smallpox per- an effort to eradicate the disease worldwide. Transmission sisted in the Indian subcontinent, Indonesia, most of Sub- appearedtohaveceasedintheAmericasby1928,butthencases SaharanAfrica,andBrazil.WHOlaunchedanintensifiedeffort reappeared, and by 1932, it became clear that a nonhuman in 1967 to eradicate the disease within a decade. This new resolutionincludedanannualbudgetofUS$2.4million,tobe eradicating that disease. In the Americas, spurred on by the paid according to theWHO scale of assessments.The resolu- success ofregional cessation oftransmission ofwild poliovirus,
