Chapter
KEYWORDS: eradication, disease, control, countries, costs, global, smallpox, vaccination, polio, ofthe, benefits, tion, benefit, health, world


transmission in the Americas (Cochi and others 1998; de Quadros 2001; Goodman and by 1991,and this effort succeeded.Some believed that global others 1998b; Henderson 1998b; Salisbury 1998) challenged eradication might be possible,although others were concerned these definitions at two subsequent meetings at the CDC tion,and communications services in many parts of Asia and Medicine (Knobler,Lederberg,and Pray 2001). Africa would make it an unachievable task.In 1988,the WHA Unfortunately, broadly accepted, standard definitions for longer-term strategy for ending polio vaccination was neither not exist in the literature. Making matters more confusing, formulated nor agreed on by the public health and scientific certain ofthe concepts have been given names that are part of community. our everyday language and so are easily misinterpreted by non- The WHA has adopted only one other resolution to eradi- specialists as meaning something different from the meanings cate a disease—guinea worm,or dracunculiasis.The eradica- understood by those who are preoccupied with eradication tion of this disease can be achieved by applying simple tech- programs. Most unfortunate is the all too casual use of the nologies for providing water that is free ofthe vector copepod words elimination and eradication to promote programs that and parasite and for treatment ofpatients with the disease.This cannot reasonably be expected to achieve the promise implicit eradication program has made steady progress but has been in these words.Moreover,the two words themselves are com- hampered in part by civil and political unrest and lack ofpro- monly used interchangeably. gram priority because of low mortality and low incidence in Control some remaining endemic areas. However, given the environ- mental restriction ofthe parasite to rural tropical areas and its Two concepts are central to this chapter:control and eradica- relatively low transmissibility, eventual global eradication tion. By control, we mean a public policy intervention that seems within reach. restricts the circulation ofan infectious agent beyond the level One other case—that ofmeasles—is worth noting.A num- that would result from spontaneous, individual behaviors to ber of public health authorities have raised the possibility of protect against infection . 1164 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Mark Miller, Scott Barrett, and D. A. Henderson Although control is a range rather then a level,a particular tion. The 1993 edition of the New Shorter Oxford English level of control may be an aim of policy.Because every choice Dictionary,for example,defines eliminateas to “remove,get rid requires economic analysis.Optimalhere is defined in relation ary defines
