Chapter
KEYWORDS: eradication, disease, control, countries, costs, global, smallpox, vaccination, polio, ofthe, benefits, tion, benefit, health, world


New Shorter Oxford English level of control may be an aim of policy.Because every choice Dictionary,for example,defines eliminateas to “remove,get rid requires economic analysis.Optimalhere is defined in relation ary defines eradicate as “pull up or out by the roots, uproot, to the model that gives rise to the result.Control is local and so remove or destroy completely,extirpate,get rid of.”This ambi- needs to be looked at from the local perspective.Because one guity invites misunderstanding among those not intimately country’s (or region’s) control may affect other countries involved in an eradication effort.For purposes ofclarity,we sel- (regions),a global perspective exists as well.The level of con- dom use the term eliminationin this chapter and then only to trol that is optimal for one country (region) may not be opti- signify control measures sufficient to interrupt microbe trans- mal from the perspective ofthe world as a whole.Thus,a need mission in a specified area. exists to distinguish between,say,a locally optimal level ofcon- trol and one that is globally optimal. Extinction Finally,control requires ongoing intervention.Sustaining a Finally,the literature sometimes refers to extinctionas a possi- given level ofcontrol requires an annual expenditure. ble policy goal.In the context ofinfectious disease control,the concept is problematic for two reasons.First,proving that an Eradication organism has become extinct is impossible. To do so would Eradication differs from control in that it is global. The term require demonstrating not only that the organism no longer denotes the certified total absence ofhuman cases,the absence exists in nature but also that it no longer exists in any con- ofa reservoir for the organism in nature,and absolute contain- trolled environment—a practical impossibility. Second, de ment of any infectious source. Eradication permits control novo synthesis of viral agents from published genomes interventions to stop or at least to be curtailed significantly. (Cello,Paul,and Wimmer 2002) now put the concept in peril, Finally, eradication is binary. Control levels can vary, but a although much research remains to be done in this area. disease is either certified as eradicated or not. Extinction,in the context ofinfectious diseases,may no longer Every disease can be controlled,even ifonly by using simple be irreversible. measures, such as quarantine. The ultimate achievement of Clearly,policy making will be improved by stating the goal control is eradication.But not every disease that can be con- ofany particular intervention in precise language. trolled can be eradicated.Very few diseases,in fact,are poten- tial candidates for eradication.The criteria for the feasibility for FRAMEWORKS FOR
