Chapter
KEYWORDS: eradication, disease, control, countries, costs, global, smallpox, vaccination, polio, ofthe, benefits, tion, benefit, health, world


disease that can be con- ofany particular intervention in precise language. trolled can be eradicated.Very few diseases,in fact,are poten- tial candidates for eradication.The criteria for the feasibility for FRAMEWORKS FOR ERADICATION eradication as a preference over control are discussed in the section titled “Economic Considerations.” Numerous issues need to be considered in planning expanded control measures that lead, possibly, to regional cessation of Elimination transmission or global eradication of disease. These complex issues will be further examined in the chapter. Control and eradication are the essential concepts, but two other terms bear mention.The first is elimination.Some who Scientific Considerations are concerned with eradication programs have explicitly defined this term to denote the cessation oftransmission ofan Scientific considerations include the nature of potential reser- organism throughout a country or region.In contrast,eradica- voirs for disease-causing microbes or their vectors, technolo- tion is defined as a global achievement.Like control,elimina- gies available for interrupting disease transmission,changes in tion is location-specific and would require ongoing interven- host capabilities to deter infections and disease, and satis- tions to be sustained in order to prevent reemergence of the factory containment oforganisms in laboratories. disease from microbe importations. Two problems exist with the term elimination.First,it has Geographic and Environmental Controls. The limit of been used to describe different phenomena, not just that endemicityformicrobesandtheirassociateddiseasesisdeter- described in the definition given above. For example, some mined in part by their ability to exist in nature outside the public health officials have promoted programs aimed at “elim- human host.Both geographic and temporal variations deter- to mean reducing incidence to an “acceptable” level but not annualincidenceratesthroughouttheworld.Thisnichelimi- necessarily to zero. This usage is very different from the one tationisfurtherextendedtointermediaryvectorsandhostsin outlined above and is almost certain to be misunderstood. complex biological systems. Natural environmental barriers Second,the definition ofthe word eliminationin common use, alsomayisolatethehabitatsofhelminths.Infectiousagentsthat as applied to disease control,is indistinguishable from eradica- are not limited to an environmentally restricted intermediary Control and Eradication | 1165 hostorthosethathavelongerlatentperiods,therebyallowing and their intermediary and human hosts. The reproductive translocation, may have a global pattern of distribution. rate,R,is influenced by many local factors,including popula- Examplesincludethehighlytransmissibleviralagentssuchas tion density (ofvectors,intermediary hosts,and humans) and measles,rubella,influenza,andvaricella.Althoughtheseagents other environmentally determined conditions,all highly vari- arenotgeographicallyconstrained,theirtransmissionpatterns able throughout the world. For a disease to be controlled to aredirectlyandindirectlyinfluencedbyseasonalenvironmen- stop transmission, the intervention-altered reproductive rate talfactorsandpopulation-basedimmunity. must be maintained below 1.0.At the same time,all reservoirs ofthe responsible microbe must be controlled. Potential Reservoirs. A microbe and associated disease can
