Chapter
KEYWORDS: eradication, disease, control, countries, costs, global, smallpox, vaccination, polio, ofthe, benefits, tion, benefit, health, world


stop transmission, the intervention-altered reproductive rate talfactorsandpopulation-basedimmunity. must be maintained below 1.0.At the same time,all reservoirs ofthe responsible microbe must be controlled. Potential Reservoirs. A microbe and associated disease can Three main components of possible eradication programs not be eradicated if the microbe is capable of persisting and are multiplying in a reservoir.Microbes that thrive in nonhuman species may reemerge if control efforts cease, thus leaving • surveillance, including environmental sampling where of a human is long lived or could lead to potential recrudes- • interventions, including vaccination and chemotherapy or cence,surveillance efforts would have to continue as long as the chemoprophylaxis or both last individual remained potentially capable of transmitting • environmental controls and certification oferadication. infection,as would be the case with tuberculosis or hepatitis B infection. Each of these components must be undertaken at local, community, national, regional, and global levels. Eradication Transmissibility. The inherent rate of a microbe’s ability to differs from control in that it is expected to be permanent. cause secondary infections is defined by an organism’s repro- Success depends on having adequate surveillance to identify ductive rate in a fully susceptible (R ) and partially susceptible potentially infectious persons and on stopping transmission (R) population.The reproductive rate oforganisms that infect before infection of a new cohort of susceptible persons arises individualsonlyoncebecauseofdurableimmunityisinversely as a result of births,migration,or the waning effectiveness of proportional to the average age of infection in an endemic prophylactic measures. area.Agents that cause childhood infections,such as viral res- piratory agents,are far more transmissible than helminths and DiseaseSurveillance. Effectivesurveillancerequiresasensitive subsequently require more intensive control efforts to interrupt systemtodetectthepresenceof microbeswithintheenviron- responsesystemsneedtobemoreefficientthantherateoftrans- Natural Resistance to Reinfection. Many natural infections missionofthetargetedagent.Aseradicationprogresses,thesen- induce long-lived immunity to reinfection.Although the most sitivityofdetectionsystemsmustbesteadilyenhancedtodetect commonly used vaccines have been available for fewer than allexistingfoci.Nonclinicalorlatentinfectionsposeformidable 50years—less than the lifetime ofan individual—they,too,are barrierstoeradicationefforts.Operationally,theneedfornear- assumed to offer long-lasting immunity. Because eradication perfect sensitivity comes at the expense of lower specificity. depends on reducing susceptible populations in potentially Thousands of skin lesions from suspected smallpox patients endemic areas,long-lived protection through immunization or were tested in reference laboratories during confirmation of natural disease is important to successful programs. smallpoxeradication,andtensofthousandsofstoolspecimens arebeingexaminedforpoliovirus.Highlysensitivesystemsused Laboratory Containment. Laboratory specimens containing todetectmeaslescasesintheAmericasbegantoidentifyagreater the organism targeted for eradication could serve as reservoirs. proportionofrubellaandparvovirusinfectionsbecauseofthe Considerable effort may be necessary to ensure their maximum nonspecificsurveillanceofrashillness.Suchfindingsareimpor- security.That these microbes may be inconspicuous in speci- tantbecausetheidentificationofotherdiseasesthatmimicthe mens collected for other purposes poses special challenges. targeted disease can
