Chapter
KEYWORDS: eradication, disease, control, countries, costs, global, smallpox, vaccination, polio, ofthe, benefits, tion, benefit, health, world


Considerable effort may be necessary to ensure their maximum nonspecificsurveillanceofrashillness.Suchfindingsareimpor- security.That these microbes may be inconspicuous in speci- tantbecausetheidentificationofotherdiseasesthatmimicthe mens collected for other purposes poses special challenges. targeted disease can lead to a misdirection of resources. This situation is especially true for the poliomyelitis virus, However,theabilitytodetectsuchsimilarclinicalcasescanserve which may be found in many stool specimens collected for asaproxymeasurefortheadequacyofsurveillance.Forexam- studies completely unrelated to current poliomyelitis eradica- ple,identificationofaminimumincidenceofcasesofacuteflac- tion efforts. cidparalysisthatisnotrelatedtopoliohasservedasanindicator ofadequateeffortsofcasefindingforpolio. Operational Considerations Optimization of control requires a fundamental appreciation Interventions. Interventions to block transmission ofthe tar- of the biological systems that govern the ecology of microbes geted infectious agent should be easy to deploy and adaptable 1166 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Mark Miller, Scott Barrett, and D. A. Henderson to diverse conditions,given the global goal oferadication.Cost herd immunityis conferred on all susceptible persons.When a considerations and local acceptance of the required sacrifices population is immunized to this level, a disease ceases to be (both short and long term) are crucial for success. endemic,and imported infections cannot spark an epidemic. Interventions may be designed for environmental control of This level is determined by the epidemiology of a disease, microbes, isolation (quarantine) of clinically infectious indi- but whether it pays to vaccinate to this level depends on the viduals to limit their contacts with susceptible persons,treat- economics, and the economics depend in turn on the social ment ofclinical cases to limit the duration ofinfectiousness,or costs and not only the social benefits of vaccination. These reduction in the infected pool ofindividuals through immuno- costs consist ofthe direct costs ofproducing,distributing,and or chemoprophylaxis. administering a vaccine. The economics depend also on the costs borne by the individuals who are vaccinated,such as those Certification. The last tool for eradication is a certification incurred by individuals who experience vaccine complications. process whereby independent, respected parties certify the The proportionate costs ofreaching people who live in remote absence ofdisease transmission or the existence ofany specific areas and those who are at special risk,such as migrants and the microbe in an uncontrolled reservoir, including laboratories homeless,increase as the fraction ofthe population vaccinated (Breman and Arita 1980). Although certification can be increases. implemented on a regional basis, it must ultimately be done The economics of varying levels of disease control depend globally. Certification is one of the greatest challenges in any on the relationship between the marginal social benefits and eradication effort,given the exceedingly great difficulty ofver-
