Chapter
KEYWORDS: eradication, disease, control, countries, costs, global, smallpox, vaccination, polio, ofthe, benefits, tion, benefit, health, world


of disease control depend globally. Certification is one of the greatest challenges in any on the relationship between the marginal social benefits and eradication effort,given the exceedingly great difficulty ofver- the marginal social costs of vaccination.As vaccination levels ifying a negative finding in a reasonably short period of time. increase,the marginal social benefits ofvaccination fall,where- When certification is completed,curtailment ofcontrol meas- as the marginal social costs rise. Social welfare is maximized ures should be possible. where these two relations intersect,which might be called the Strengthening control efforts sufficiently to achieve eradica- “optimal” level of vaccination—a level that may or may not tion is a difficult and expensive task.It requires that scaling up achieve cessation oftransmission or eradication. of such efforts occur over a wide area—at the community, national,regional,and global levels.Its efficacy depends heavily Short-Term versus Long-Term Net Benefits. Control pro- on the adequacy oflocal financial and human resources,as well grams require ongoing intervention.Sustaining a given level of as on a broad range oflogistical factors. protection requires that,over time,a certain proportion ofnew susceptible persons be vaccinated. Eradication differs from control in being permanent. The economics of eradication Economic Considerations must therefore take account of long-term benefits as well as Control and eradication programs have many economic short-term costs. dimensions:private versus social net benefits,short-term ver- The long-term benefits of eradication consist of avoided sus long-term net benefits, and local versus international net future infections and vaccination costs—a dividend.To calcu- benefits.Such interventions also have implications for existing late this benefit,one projects future infection and vaccination and discounts them.If this sum exceeds the costs of eradica- Private versus Social Net Benefits. Individuals have private tion,then eradication enhances social well-being,and it there- incentives to protect themselves from disease—by means of fore should be undertaken. vaccination, for example. But when individuals protect In deciding on the benefits oferadication,the cost offuture themselves—when they elect to be vaccinated—they offer a infections and vaccination should ideally be compared with the measure of protection to others by helping limit the spread of best alternative to eradication: the level of optimal control infection. In brief, the social benefit of vaccination is greater (Barrett and Hoel 2003). than the private benefit alone.As more people become vacci- The costs of eradication must also take into account ongo- nated,the marginalprivate and social benefit ofvaccination— ing surveillance requirements, laboratory containment, and that is, the benefit of vaccinating an additional susceptible perhaps the maintenance ofstockpiles ofvaccine
