Chapter
KEYWORDS: eradication, disease, control, countries, costs, global, smallpox, vaccination, polio, ofthe, benefits, tion, benefit, health, world


take into account ongo- nated,the marginalprivate and social benefit ofvaccination— ing surveillance requirements, laboratory containment, and that is, the benefit of vaccinating an additional susceptible perhaps the maintenance ofstockpiles ofvaccine in the chance person—declines.The marginal private benefit is likely to fall event of disease reemergence.From an economic perspective, because,as more people are vaccinated,the probability ofa sus- attractive candidates for eradication are those diseases that ceptible person becoming infected falls. The marginal social some countries have themselves targeted for interruption of benefit is likely to fall for the same reason and for one other:as transmission nationally or regionally. more people become protected,the total number ofsusceptible persons falls. The marginal social benefit of vaccination falls Local versus International Net Benefits. Control differs from sharply at the criticallevel ofimmunization—the level at which eradication in another important way. Control refers to Control and Eradication | 1167 location-specific interventions. Eradication, by contrast, is eradicated.In these two cases,no need exists for an interna- global.In economic terms,eradication is a globalpublic good. tional policy. No country can be excluded from the benefit of eradication, • Third, each country may have an incentive to eliminate a and no country’s consumption of that benefit diminishes the disease only ifall other countries have eliminated it.In this amounts available to other countries. Control, by contrast, case, achieving global eradication requires coordination. supplies only a local public good. Here a role exists for international policy, but all that is Eradication requires a global effort.A disease can be eradi- required is for each country to be assured that all others will cated only if microbe transmission ceases everywhere. This eliminate the disease. spatial dimension to eradication is offundamental importance • Finally,and noting that the “last”country to eliminate a dis- because no world government can implement an eradication ease would get just a fraction of the global dividend from policy; the WHA can declare its support for eradication, but eradication, under some circumstances no incentive may WHO does not have the power to enforce the execution of a exists for this country to eliminate the disease—even if all national program in support ofthat goal.The outcome experi- other countries have done so and even if the entire world enced by any country depends not only on whether the coun- would be better offifit did.This case is the most worrisome, try itself eliminates the disease within its borders but also on because implementation of the efficient outcome
