Chapter
KEYWORDS: eradication, disease, control, countries, costs, global, smallpox, vaccination, polio, ofthe, benefits, tion, benefit, health, world


whether the coun- would be better offifit did.This case is the most worrisome, try itself eliminates the disease within its borders but also on because implementation of the efficient outcome would weakest-link public good. Whether eradication is achieved depends on the level of All this hypothesizing assumes that countries are symmet- control adopted by the country that undertakes the least ric,and of course they are not.Some countries gain less from control. In practical terms, any country in which disease is control and would gain less from eradication than others.Some endemic can prevent eradication from being achieved.In 2004, are unable to implement an elimination program,even ifthey the global polio eradication initiative,after investing more than would very much like it to succeed.In these situations,achiev- US$3 billion and involving some 20 million volunteers over a ing an eradication goal will require international financing and period of16 years,was placed at risk offailure by the actions of technical assistance,with the countries that benefit most from one local administration. In the Kano state of Nigeria, local eradication compensating the other countries for the costs of leaders claimed that the polio vaccine was tainted with the eradicating the disease. National and international reproach AIDS virus and sterility drugs and declined to participate in a are often expressed if a country lags in its eradication efforts. national immunization day program. The European Union International financing has been a key element in all eradica- then declined to pay for the national program in Nigeria, tion programs. believing the money would be wasted . One We have thus far looked at eradication from the perspective consequence was the subsequent spread of polio to nine for- of only the self-interests of states. But eradication also has merly polio-free countries. Concerted efforts by WHO later implications for development. In particular, eradication has persuaded local leaders in Nigeria to rejoin global efforts,but two advantages over control programs.The first is that the rich special vaccination programs had to be launched over a popu- countries may gain directly ifthe goal is achieved,giving them lation area of more than 300 million persons. This situation a vested interest in ensuring that the goal is achieved.The sec- dramatically illustrated the vulnerabilities inherent in a ond is that eradication is permanent,making an investment in weakest-link public good. eradication financially sustainable. This second advantage is What are the incentives for states to participate in an eradi- important because financial sustainability
