Chapter
KEYWORDS: eradication, disease, control, countries, costs, global, smallpox, vaccination, polio, ofthe, benefits, tion, benefit, health, world


is permanent,making an investment in weakest-link public good. eradication financially sustainable. This second advantage is What are the incentives for states to participate in an eradi- important because financial sustainability has proved to be a cation effort? To begin,assume that countries are symmetric, key problem for disease control programs in developing coun- meaning that all countries have the same benefits and costs of tries (Kremer and Miguel 2004). control.Assume as well that eradication is feasible.Four possi- ble situations then exist : Vertical versus Horizontal Programs. Control and eradica- tion programs cannot be viewed in isolation.All programs have • First,the global net benefit oferadication may be negative— implications for the delivery of comprehensive primary care the cumulative programmatic costs outweigh the net pres- services. An important question is whether targeted, or so- ent value ofthe cumulative benefits.In this case,elimination called vertical, programs draw critical resources away from so no country would eliminate the disease. augment competence and capacity.The evidence is mixed. • Second,the global net benefit oferadication may be so large Evidence suggests that disease-specific systems can serve that each country would choose to eliminate the disease to expand polyvalent services (Aylward and others 1998). even if others did not. In this case, all countries would Smallpoxeradication,forexample,gavemanynationalgovern- eliminate the disease, and the disease would therefore be mentstheconfidencetointroducetheExpandedProgramon 1168 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Mark Miller, Scott Barrett, and D. A. Henderson Immunization, with the ability to deliver vaccines and prorating estimates ofthe benefits oferadication for India and micronutrientsinroutineschedulesandthroughnationalcam- the United States to all developing and industrial countries, paigns.However,otherevidencesuggeststhatsomevaccination respectively, suggest that developing countries benefited programs have adversely affected primary health services more from smallpox eradication than industrial countries. (Steinglass2001;Taylor,Cutts,andTaylor1997)andmayhave Qualitatively, a consistent picture emerges: smallpox eradica- even increased costs. Implementation of international initia- tion was not only an extraordinary investment for the world;it tivescanalsoexposeconflictsof priorities.Thepolioeradica- was also an investment that benefited every country,rich and tioninitiative,forexample,hassuccessfullyvaccinatedchildren poor alike. in the poorest of countries against this disease, but in some When the eradication effort began,smallpox was no longer of these countries it has failed to timely include the co- endemic in most industrial countries.Nonetheless,these coun- administrationof measlesandothercommonchildhoodvac- tries needed to maintain populationwide immunity under the cines, which would have had a much greater effect on child threat of possible imported cases from endemic countries. mortality. They would gain from eradication not only through the cessa- tion of vaccination and its
