Chapter
KEYWORDS: eradication, disease, control, countries, costs, global, smallpox, vaccination, polio, ofthe, benefits, tion, benefit, health, world


a much greater effect on child threat of possible imported cases from endemic countries. mortality. They would gain from eradication not only through the cessa- tion of vaccination and its associated costs but also by being DISEASE-SPECIFIC CASE STUDIES able to decrease the number of quarantine inspectors at ports of entry and by averting costs of care related to the adverse In this section,we apply the reasoning developed previously to events from this live vaccine. provide an empirical analysis ofthe three most recent eradica- The still-endemic countries would also save vaccination tion programs—smallpox and the two ongoing programs, costs, although most were vaccinating only a comparatively poliomyelitis and dracunculiasis. small proportion of their populations. The greater benefit to them was the avoided cost of disease,including the extraordi- nary death toll. A number of developing countries had Smallpox accorded smallpox prevention a high priority,as was evidenced As noted before,smallpox eradication was achieved in October by the number that succeeded in interrupting transmission 1977,11 years after the intensified program began.Following without international assistance. This list includes China, implementation of a rigorous certification procedure, the which was not a member ofWHO at the time the eradication WHA declared smallpox eradicated in 1980. effort commenced. Fenner and others (1988) have estimated the annual bene- Indeed,and as shown in table 62.1,the still-endemic coun- fits ofsmallpox eradication to developing and industrial coun- tries contributed an estimated two-thirds of the US$298 mil- tries (see table 62.1). These aggregate estimates, obtained by lion cost of eradication. International sources funded the balance.Ifthe latter cost is interpreted as the incremental cost ofachieving eradication,the benefit-cost ratio ofglobal small- pox eradication was over 450:1,a singularly high figure.Even Table 62.1 Benefits and Costs of Smallpox Eradication including the expenditure by endemic countries,the benefit of (Millions of U.S. dollars) eradication exceeded the cost by an unusually large amount. Brilliant (1985) calculated the annual costs ofthe smallpox Annual amount eradication campaign for India to be about US$17 million per Beneficiary year, including indirect costs (lost productivity caused by India 722 adverse reactions to vaccination) and opportunity costs (health United States 150 workers being diverted from other programs).These costs were All developing countries 1,070 only a fraction of the annual benefits of eradication to India, All industrial countries 350 which, by Brilliant’s calculations, were US$150 million. The Total annual benefit 1,420 benefit estimates by Fenner and others (1988) are much larger, and those of Ramaiah (1976)
