Chapter
KEYWORDS: eradication, disease, control, countries, costs, global, smallpox, vaccination, polio, ofthe, benefits, tion, benefit, health, world


industrial countries 350 which, by Brilliant’s calculations, were US$150 million. The Total annual benefit 1,420 benefit estimates by Fenner and others (1988) are much larger, and those of Ramaiah (1976) are smaller,but all three studies Expenditure draw the same (qualitative) conclusion: smallpox eradication Total international, on eradication 98 was a good investment for India.Basu,Jezˇek,and Ward (1979, Total national, by endemic countries 200 312) present estimates identical to those in Ramaiah (1976), Combined total, on eradication 298 but without giving attribution. Benefit-cost ratio Originally,India had decided to undertake a smallpox pro- International expenditure 483:1 gram just one month after the WHA voted to eradicate the dis- Combined total expenditure 159:1 ease globally in 1959.The attempt failed,however,largely for Source:Adapted from Fenner and others 1988. administrative reasons (Basu, Jezˇek, and Ward 1979; Brilliant Control and Eradication | 1169 1985; Fenner and others 1988). Essentially, India had an the eradication ofthe disease.A huge organizational effort,but economic incentive to control smallpox on its own (Brilliant only a relatively small incremental cost,was needed to achieve 1985, 33) but lacked organizational capacity and an effective eradication.The specter ofglobal terrorism has recently caused strategy for achieving this goal.Note,however,that India had some countries to prepare themselves for a possible smallpox by emergencies and competing political demands on scarce Smallpox, however, was a special case. Many attributes of resources,the long-term benefits from disease eradication were the disease and the vaccine favored eradication. The vaccine not a great motivation.Health planners are sensitive to imme- was heat stable and required only a single dose to protect a per- diate political realities,and the benefits ofsmallpox eradication son for a period ofat least 5 to 10 years.Vaccination was easily would be realized only at some future time when the $3 million performed and protected immediately on application. Every annual expenditures for smallpox could be applied to other individual who became infected exhibited a typical,easily rec- so many scarce resources into one program rather than into recourse to laboratory diagnosis.The disease spread slowly so many health needs was high.” that transmission could readily be stopped by isolating the Table 62.2 provides estimates of the benefits of smallpox patient and vaccinating contacts within the area. eradication to the United States.The total benefit of eradica- tion to the United States is about the same order ofmagnitude Poliomyelitis as India’s, but the breakdown is different. Whereas India benefited mainly from avoided infections, the United States The polio eradication
