Chapter
KEYWORDS: eradication, disease, control, countries, costs, global, smallpox, vaccination, polio, ofthe, benefits, tion, benefit, health, world


the United States is about the same order ofmagnitude Poliomyelitis as India’s, but the breakdown is different. Whereas India benefited mainly from avoided infections, the United States The polio eradication program,launched by the WHA in 1988, benefited mainly from avoided vaccinations. By the time the has made substantial progress (CDC 2003a, 2003b, 2003c, eradication program was launched, the United States had 2004a,2004c,2004e,2004g,2005).The incidence of paralytic already interrupted smallpox transmission, but vaccination poliomyelitis in children fell by more than 99 percent,from an number ofpeople died every year from infections arising from 4 cases per day in 2003.The number ofpoliomyelitis-endemic the live vaccine). Defending the nation from imported countries also fell, from 125 in 1988 to just 6 by 2003 infections imposed additional costs. (Afghanistan,the Arab Republic ofEgypt,India,Niger,Nigeria, in economic terms,it yielded a benefit many times greater than repetitive vaccination campaigns with easily administered oral the cost.Identifying another investment that has yielded com- polio vaccine to whole regions, to nations, and to large sub- parable returns and has benefited every country is difficult. populations. One reason that the economics ofsmallpox eradication were so During 2004, however, polio immunization activities in favorable is that all countries had strong incentives to join in northern Nigeria were halted for an extended period for fear oftainted vaccines,and this permitted the development ofepi- demics extending throughout the country.The disease spread as well to 10 other African countries and to Saudi Arabia, Table 62.2 Benefits of Smallpox Eradication to the United Yemen, and Indonesia. Transmission has again been reestab- States, 1968 (Millions of U.S. dollars) lished in several African countries (Burkina Faso, Central African Republic, Chad, Côte d’Ivoire, and Sudan). Heroic Amount efforts are being made to control these outbreaks by large-scale Direct costs for medical services Vaccination 92.8 portation infrastructures are weak,disease transmission is dif- Treatment of complications 0.7 ficult to interrupt.Meanwhile,other countries throughout the Indirect costs, loss of productivity world that appear to be polio free are continuing their vaccina- Work losses attributable to vaccination and reactions 41.7 tion programs but finding it increasingly difficult to maintain Permanent disability attributable to complications 0.4 a momentum ofinterest,effort,and financing. Premature death 0.1 The difficulties ofmaintaining credible surveillance systems Cost of international traffic surveillance and delays in 14.5 throughout the developing countries were vividly demon- clearance of vessels strated by the discovery of polio in Sudan in May 2004,more Total 150.2 than three years after the last case had
