Chapter
KEYWORDS: eradication, disease, control, countries, costs, global, smallpox, vaccination, polio, ofthe, benefits, tion, benefit, health, world


the developing countries were vividly demon- clearance of vessels strated by the discovery of polio in Sudan in May 2004,more Total 150.2 than three years after the last case had been reported (CDC Source:Sencer and Axnick 1973; see also Fenner and others 1988, table 31.2. 2005).In the interim,specimens from 75 to 90 percent ofsuch 1170 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Mark Miller, Scott Barrett, and D. A. Henderson cases were processed in the laboratory, and measures of derived pathogenic viruses (Kew and others 2002). Such an surveillance for acute flaccid paralysis cases were reported to outbreak could occur with disastrous speed because the polio have been entirely satisfactory.At first,the Sudanese cases were virus is far more contagious than that ofsmallpox.In develop- considered to have resulted from importations from Nigeria, ing countries,virtually all cases ofpolio occurred among those and, indeed, some cases were. However, from more detailed under five years ofage,older persons having been protected by laboratory studies, it was determined that type 1 wild virus the natural immunity of earlier infection. Within five years hadbeen circulating undetected for more than three years and after vaccination ceased, therefore, the population immunity type 3 virus for nearly five years. level in the developing countries would be no better than it was Clearly, stopping the continuing transmission of wild before vaccination was introduced.With this is mind,it seems is by no means certain.A problematic discovery since the glob- suaded to call for a country-wide cessation of poliomyelitis al eradication program began was the finding that individuals vaccination itself,given the uncertainties of virus detection in with particular immunologic disorders shed polio vaccine so many remote and inaccessible areas ofthe world. virus for many months to years,thus serving as a reservoir for By definition, eradication implies certifying cessation of this virus. The virus, in turn, can revert to a neurovirulent virus transmission and the absence ofreservoirs so that control form, which is capable of causing outbreaks of disease interventions can cease. As noted earlier in this chapter, it is (Bellmunt and others 1999). Such individuals may be wholly only for this reason that eradication yields a dividend. without symptoms and impossible to identify except through Although the interruption of wild poliomyelitis virus trans- fecal cultures.Moreover,no treatment is known to stop them mission is theoretically feasible,the obstacles to achieving and from shedding virus. They pose an all but insurmountable maintaining this goal are formidable.At
