Chapter
KEYWORDS: eradication, disease, control, countries, costs, global, smallpox, vaccination, polio, ofthe, benefits, tion, benefit, health, world


fecal cultures.Moreover,no treatment is known to stop them mission is theoretically feasible,the obstacles to achieving and from shedding virus. They pose an all but insurmountable maintaining this goal are formidable.At this time,it is difficult challenge to the current poliomyelitis eradication effort. to foresee a future that does not envisage a continuing vaccina- The program is further hampered by the tool that has pro- tion program, perhaps with IPV use in countries that can vided so much success—oral poliovirus vaccine (OPV). In afford the substantial additional costs entailed and with OPV resource-poor environments, poliomyelitis is best controlled use in all other countries. with the inexpensive,live,and easily administered oral vaccine. The polio eradication initiative,like that for smallpox,has The live vaccine is excreted and can infect other susceptible had to rely primarily on voluntary donations provided both to contacts. The ability of OPV to immunize others indirectly WHO and bilaterally.Playing an especially important role have makes it an ideal vaccine for achieving high levels of been the Rotary International Foundation and the Bill & population-based immunity,especially in lower socioeconomic Melinda Gates Foundation. From 1988 to 2004, more than populations that are the most difficult to reach.However,the US$3 billion was spent on the effort . excreted virus occasionally reverts to a pathologic state,causing What are the economics of polio eradication? Bart,Foulds, not only cases but outbreaks of vaccine-associated paralytic and Patriarca (1996) developed the first global cost-benefit polio,which may not emerge until months or even years after analysis ofpolio eradication,beginning with the costs incurred Unfortunately,the alternative inactivated polio vaccine (IPV) is tion launched a regional eradication effort, and extending to not immediately an option in many nations,not least because 2040. They assumed that eradication would be achieved in global manufacturing capacity could not begin to meet 2005,using OPV,and that vaccination would cease after eradi- demand.Other problems include the current cost differential cation had been certified. Benefits (like costs, discounted at between OPV and IPV,the increased difficulty of administer- 6 percent) reflect the avoided costs of acute care and avoided ing the vaccine by syringe and needle,and the need to achieve vaccination costs after certification.Their analysis showed that higher coverage rates with IPV because it does not spread from the initiative would break even by 2007 and yield a net benefit person to person as does OPV. to the world ofmore than US$13 billion by 2040—an encour- Tragically,if OPV use were discontinued,in the absence of
