Chapter
KEYWORDS: eradication, disease, control, countries, costs, global, smallpox, vaccination, polio, ofthe, benefits, tion, benefit, health, world


of infrastructure,and stockpiles of OPV.In addition,controlling certification oferadication in 2005 for three different scenarios: outbreaks with OPV without the risk of viruses reverting to continued use ofOPV,OPV cessation with optional use ofthe virulence will be exceedingly difficult in the setting ofan accel- killed or inactivated polio vaccine, and OPV cessation with erating proportion ofimmunologic-naive individuals.The use universal IPV.Table 62.4 shows their results. of OPV in this scenario could very well cause poliomyelitis to 1172 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Mark Miller, Scott Barrett, and D. A. Henderson again become endemic.In any case,the estimated cost ofany of This last omission is especially relevant to the study’s analy- the strategies exceeds $20 billion. sis of the eradication program in Sudan.The study projected The economics ofpolio eradication are thus not as favorable that,by 1998,infections would cease everywhere except Sudan. as concluded by either Bart, Foulds, and Patriarca (1996) or (Plainly, this prediction was wrong, although Sudan is the Khan and Ehreth (2003).Both studies assume that vaccination largest problem for the program,mainly because of the ongo- can cease without IPV being used as a substitute anywhere, ing civil war,which has limited accessibility to endemic areas; both exclude the costs ofmaintaining a response capacity,and see Hopkins and others 2002.) It then calculates the net present neither accounts for the real threat ofreemergence.Sangrujee, value of eliminating the disease there. The results are not Cáceres,and Cochi (2004) take account oftwo ofthese consid- promising.They show that eradication is attractive only if the erations,but their analysis calculates only the costs for 15 years, disease can be eliminated in Sudan within five years.However, ignoring both the risk ofreemergence and the benefits oferad- this analysis ignores the dividend that eradication would earn ication. Hence, each study provides only a partial glimpse of Sudan. It also disregards the most important feature of the economics of polio eradication and does not adequately eradication—that if the disease were certified to have been address the fundamental difficulty (inability) of stopping vac- eliminated from its last stronghold,it would yield a benefit to cination and maintaining eradication. all potentially vulnerable countries. Thus, the economics of In conclusion,although the economics ofpolio eradication eliminating dracunculiasis from Sudan, if that is where the may have been thought to be favorable by some (Aylward and disease makes its last stand,will be much more attractive than others 2003),they are far less favorable than were the econom- suggested by this
