Chapter
KEYWORDS: eradication, disease, control, countries, costs, global, smallpox, vaccination, polio, ofthe, benefits, tion, benefit, health, world


to be favorable by some (Aylward and disease makes its last stand,will be much more attractive than others 2003),they are far less favorable than were the econom- suggested by this analysis. ics ofsmallpox eradication,even assuming that polio vaccina- tion could cease. CONCLUSIONS Dracunculiasis Of the several attempts to eradicate diseases, all but one has Dracunculiasis,or guinea worm disease,is a nematode infec- failed.Even the exception,smallpox,barely succeeded despite tion,which is controlled not by vaccination but by education of the many factors favorable to eradication.Whether any eradi- the affected population, provision of nematode-free water cation effort will ultimately succeed or fail cannot be known through wells or filtration,and treatment of cases.It is not a with certainty at the time it is launched. Eradication entails global disease but found only in the rural areas of a few very risk.Money spent on eradication may not ultimately pay a div- poor tropical countries.This last difference is especially impor- idend.Health risks may also exist.If eradication fails and vac- tant from an economics perspective. It means that interna- cination levels drop after the eradication goal is abandoned, tional financing of a guinea worm eradication program needs susceptible persons who were previously shielded from infec- to rely more heavily on development assistance rather than on tion may become infected at a later age,when the disease can the self-interest ofdonor countries. cause greater harm.The risk also exists that,even iferadication Thus far, the eradication program has been successful in succeeds, the disease may be reintroduced by accidental or reducingthenumberofcasesofguineaworm99percentfrom deliberate release. the 1986 level (Carter Center 2004).The geographic range of The reasons for potential failure ofan eradication effort are thediseasehasalsobeenreducedfrom20tojust12countries. many.A nonhuman host may not be discovered until the num- Although this achievement is important, eradication remains ber ofinfected humans drops to a very low level (as happened elusivemanyyearsbeyond1995,theyearthattheWHAsetfor with yellow fever).The tools oferadication may be vulnerable eradicationin1991(Cairncross,Muller,andZagaria2002,232). to resistance (insecticides and drugs in the case of malaria). Only one cost-benefit study ofthe guinea worm eradication Political problems and civil strife may prevent an eradication program has been published (Kim, Tandon, and Ruiz-Tiben program from being executed in critical areas where the disease 1997),and it is unfortunately flawed in a number of respects. makes its last stand (a problem today for guinea worm). First,as indicated previously,eradication costs should be com- Termination of vaccination may leave populations vulnerable pared with those associated with an alternative optimal control to microbe reintroduction from an
