Chapter
KEYWORDS: eradication, disease, control, countries, costs, global, smallpox, vaccination, polio, ofthe, benefits, tion, benefit, health, world


guinea worm). First,as indicated previously,eradication costs should be com- Termination of vaccination may leave populations vulnerable pared with those associated with an alternative optimal control to microbe reintroduction from an unforeseen reservoir or program.Second,the cost-benefit analysis applies to the period vaccine strain reversion (a risk now facing the poliomyelitis ini- 1987 to 1998 and thus is backward looking.The analysis can tiative). Another potential reason for failure is the inability reveal whether the money spent previously yielded a benefit in to raise the financial resources needed to complete programs excess ofthe cost (it did),but it cannot reveal whether eradica- that extend beyond expected targets.All eradication programs tion was worth pursuing at the time that this study was under- have experienced serious financial stringencies during the taken.Finally,it takes no account ofthe investment decision of course oftheir execution. eradication—the main reason for pursuing the eradication Most eradication programs to date have been launched goal in the first place. as visionary, far-reaching efforts but with vastly incomplete Control and Eradication | 1173 information.Basicepidemiologicalinformationandknowledge REFERENCES oftheeffectivenessandoperationalconstraintsofinterventions Anderson, R. M., and R. May. 1991. Infectious Diseases of Humans: and costs in different settings are often inadequate, and the requiredmonitoring,evaluation,training,andresearchcompo- Andrews,J.M.,and A.D.Langmuir.1963.“The Philosophy of Disease nentsoftheprogrammaybeabsent.Ifaprogram’sadministra- Eradication.”American Journal ofPublic Health 53:1–6. torslackacareful,probinganalysisoftheepidemiologyofthe Aylward,R.B.,A.Acharya,S.England,M.Agocs,and J.Linkins.2003. variouscandidatediseasesorofthetechnologiesavailable,and “PolioEradication.”InGlobalPublicGoodsforHealth:HealthEconomic D.Woodward,andN.Drager,33–53.Oxford,U.K.:OxfordUniversity bearthemislimited,aprogramislikelytofounder,causinga Press. dispirited staff,confused beneficiaries,and donor fatigue and Aylward,R.B.,J.M.Olive,H.F.Hull,C.A.De Quadros,and B.Melgaard. ambivalence. It is crucial that the eradication methodologies 1998.“Ensuring Common Principles Lead to Mutual Benefits:Disease and assumptions in those regions of the world that would be Eradication Initiatives and General Health Services.” In The Eradication ofInfectious Diseases,eds.W.R.Dowdle and D.R.Hopkins. mostlikelytoposethemostsignificantproblemsbetestedand New York:John Wiley and Sons. addressed before launching an eradication program and that Barrett, S. 2003.“Global Disease Eradication.” Journal of the European evaluationandresearchcontinueduringtheprogram. Economic Association1:591–600. Proposals for disease eradication have seldom been brought ———. 2004. “Eradication vs. Control: The Economics of Global laid out.Nor have the expected sources of fiscal support and (9):683–88. needed country support been addressed with specific commit- Barrett, S., and M. Hoel. 2003.“Optimal Disease Eradication.”Disease Control Priorities Project Working Paper 22. ments requested ofthe members.The WHA has only a limited Bart, K. J., J. Foulds, and P. Patriarca. 1996. “Global Eradication of deliberative capacity,and too much cannot be expected of its Poliomyelitis: Benefit-Cost Analysis.” Bulletin of the World Health members in session.However,designated special committees of Organization74 (1):35–45. the WHA can and should be appointed, consisting of both Basu,R.N.,Z.Jezˇek,and N.A.Ward.1979.The Eradication ofSmallpox visionary eradicationists and field-experienced
