Case Report
KEYWORDS: disease, renal, wilson disease, wilson, tubular, case, acidosis, tubular acidosis, urine, distal, muscle, meq, potassium, hypokalemic, renal tubular


Case Report Wilson’s Disease Presents as Recurrent Hypokalemic Muscle Paralysis Abstract Mythri Shankar, A 21-year-old euthyroid gentleman born to nonconsanguineous parents was diagnosed with bipolar Monica Nayaka1, affective disorder. He presented 4 years later with hypokalemic quadriparesis. On evaluation, he Kishan Aralapuram2, was found to have features of both proximal and distal renal tubular acidosis. Ophthalmologic Sreedhara C. examination by slit lamp confirmed the presence of the Kayser–Fleischer ring. The diagnosis of Gurusiddaiah3 Wilson’s disease was established with serum ceruloplasmin levels and 24-h urinary copper levels. Nephro‑Urology, Bengaluru, due to the initial presentation with psychiatric symptoms. Karnataka, India, 1Senior Nephro‑Urology, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India, 2Associate Background abuse. There was no significant family history. Nephro‑Urology, Bengaluru, genetic autosomal recessive mutation of On examination, he was conscious and Karnataka, India, 3Head of ATP7B gene codes for an intracellular 122/66 mmHg and a normal heart rate Nephro‑Urology, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India copper transporter. It usually presents with of 72 beats/min. Upper and lower limbs neuropsychiatric or hepatic symptoms. had a power of 2/5, with diminished Rare clinical presentations include patellar and ankle reflexes. Plantars were hemolytic anemia, bone pathologies, and mute bilaterally. There was no evidence renal calculi. Also, it rarely presents with of bulbar, respiratory, or sphincter muscle renal tubular acidosis, either proximal or involvement. There was no defined distal. Here, we present, to the best sensory level. There was no organomegaly. of our knowledge, the first case report of Examination of other systems was Wilson’s disease in the world, presenting unremarkable. as hypokalemic quadriparesis due to both On laboratory evaluation, complete blood proximal and distal renal tubular acidosis. count was as follows: hemoglobin- 15.4 g%, total white blood cell (WBC) count- Case Report Received: [DATE] 5550 cells/mm3, and platelet count- Revised: [DATE] A 21-year-old gentleman born to 1.27 lakhs/mm3. Renal function tests Accepted: [DATE] Published: [DATE] nonconsanguineous parents from West and electrolytes were as follows: serum Bengal was diagnosed with bipolar affective (s.) creatinine- 1.08 mg/dl, blood (b.) Address for correspondence: disorder and was started on olanzapine and urea- 29 mg/dl, s. sodium- 122 mEq/l, Dr. Mythri Shankar, and fatigue. On further questioning, he calcium- 8.5 mg/dl, s. phosphorous- Nephro‑Urology, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India. E‑mail: mythri. gave a history of muscle weakness treated 1.55 mg/dl, s. magnesium- 1.5 mg/ with potassium supplements 1 year back. dl, random blood sugar- 108 mg/ However, he had stopped all medications dl, and s. uric acid- 3.1 mg/dl.
