Case Report
KEYWORDS: disease, renal, wilson disease, wilson, tubular, case, acidosis, tubular acidosis, urine, distal, muscle, meq, potassium, hypokalemic, renal tubular


with increased fractional mEq/l, s. potassium- 3.7 mEq/l, s. chloride- 98 mEq/l, and excretion of potassium (FEK; 35.12%), which is a feature s. bicarbonate- 25 mEq/l. Follow-up of urinary copper of both Type 1 and Type 2 renal tubular acidosis. Studies levels and s. ceruloplasmin levels was not feasible due to have shown that the FEK value in hypokalemic patients of extrarenal origin generally ranges from 1.5% to 6.4%, whereas FEK in patients with hypokalemia of renal origin is Figure 1: ECG shows QT prolongation, flattening of T waves, and ST depression. ECG = electrocardiogram Figure 2: Arrow shows Kayser–Fleischer rings seen at the limbus of the cornea Indian Journal of Nephrology | Volume 33 | Issue 4 | July-August 2023 293 Shankar, et al.: Wilson’s disease and the kidney Figure 3: Flowchart for the diagnosis of Wilson's disease. Infographics credit: Mythri Shankar financial constraints. Liver function tests remained normal established only at 18 years of age when he developed throughout. wing-beating tremor. It can be noted here that there was a delay in establishing the diagnosis. The age at Discussion the time of diagnosis was similar to the present case. But he developed neurological symptoms in the form of There is a wide variability in clinical presentation of wing-beating tremors, whereas this case had a bipolar Wilson's disease with 10%–100% of patients presenting affective disorder. Also, the cause for hypokalemic muscle with neuropsychiatric symptoms. In this case, the weakness was incomplete proximal tubular acidosis, diagnosis of Wilson’s disease was delayed by 4 years as whereas this case had both proximal and distal renal the patient presented to the psychiatric department first with bipolar affective disorder. In one case report, the tubular acidosis. Chakraborty et al. described a case of 24-year-old male with recurrent muscle weakness diagnosis of Wilson’s disease was delayed by 12 years and the presence of KF rings, like this case. However, he due to clinical presentation with psychiatric symptoms. had distal tubular acidosis, whereas our case had both This young adult presented to us with hypokalemic proximal and distal tubular acidosis. Both the cases did muscle paralysis. Hypokalemic periodic paralysis is skeletal not have hepatitis, similar to this case. Thapa et al. muscle calcium channelopathy precipitated by exercise and a high carbohydrate diet. It was excluded on the published another case of a young male with recurrent muscle weakness and KF rings, similar to the present
