Case Report
KEYWORDS: disease, renal, wilson disease, wilson, tubular, case, acidosis, tubular acidosis, urine, distal, muscle, meq, potassium, hypokalemic, renal tubular


by exercise and a high carbohydrate diet. It was excluded on the published another case of a young male with recurrent muscle weakness and KF rings, similar to the present following grounds: 1. No precipitating factor, 2. Presence case. However, he had hepatitis and distal tubular acidosis of renal tubular acidosis, and 3. Subsequently, response alone, unlike in the present case. This is possibly the first to penicillamine and zinc. Thyrotoxicosis-related muscle case report of proximal renal tubular acidosis with distal weakness was ruled out as thyroid function tests were tubule involvement due to Wilson’s disease. normal. Wilson’s disease is a rare cause of Fanconi’s syndrome. Conclusion Also, distal renal tubular acidosis usually occurs due Wilson’s disease may present with hypokalemic muscle to a defect in the acidification of urine at the distal paralysis due to proximal tubular acidosis with distal convoluted tubule (defective hydrogen ion secretion). tubule involvement. So, in young men presenting with Renal loss of sodium bicarbonate leads to hyperchloremia hypokalemic periodic paralysis with metabolic acidosis, and hypokalemia. Also, there is increased renal loss of it is apt to rule out Wilson’s disease. Also, one-third of potassium due to excessive distal secretion of potassium. patients with Wilson’s disease may present with psychiatric This leads to severe hypokalemia causing muscle symptoms, leading to delay in diagnosis and treatment. paralysis. Declaration of patient consent disease in the form of recurrent muscle paralysis has The authors certify that they have obtained all appropriate been reported in only three cases. Chu et al. reported patient consent forms. In the form, the patient(s) has/have a 24-year-old male presenting with recurrent hypokalemic given his/her/their consent for his/her/their images and muscle paralysis (due to proximal tubular acidosis) other clinical information to be reported in the journal. since the age of 13 years, while the diagnosis was The patients understand that their names and initials will 294 Indian Journal of Nephrology | Volume 33 | Issue 4 | July-August 2023 Shankar, et al.: Wilson’s disease and the kidney not be published and due efforts will be made to conceal presenting as metabolic bone disease. BMJ Case Rep their identity, but anonymity cannot be guaranteed. 2011;2011:bcr0420114121. 4. Chakraborty PP, Mandal SK, Bandyopadhyay D, Bandyopadhyay R, Financial support and sponsorship Chowdhury SR. Recurrent limb weakness as initial presentation of Wilson’s disease. Indian J Gastroenterol 2007;26:36-8. Nil. Conflicts of interest presentation, diagnosis and long-term outcome of Wilson’s disease:
