Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, blood, right, left, cardiac, ventricles, artery, valves, coronary, ventricle, atrium, posterior, interventricular, pulmonary, anterior


Self Learning Package Module 1: Anatomy and Physiology of the Heart. INTRODUCTION Welcome to Module 1: Anatomy and Physiology of the Heart. This self leaning package is designed to as tool to assist nurse in understanding the hearts structure and how the heart works. The goal of this module is to review: Location , size and shape of the heart The chambers of the heart The circulation system of the heart The heart’s valve anatomy Coronary arteries and veins Cardiac muscle tissue The conduction system The cardiac cycle This module will form the foundation of your cardiac knowledge and enable you to understand workings of the heart that will assist you in completing other modules. Learning outcomes form this module are: To state the position of the heart, the size and shape. To identify the chambers of the heart To identify the circulation system To state the anatomy of heart valve To identify the coronary arteries To state the properties of cardiac muscle tissue To indentify the conduction system To identify the cardiac cycle HOW TO USE THE ECG SELF-LEARNING PACKAGE Follow these steps to complete the self-learning module: 1) Complete the reading provided in this module 2) Complete the multi-choice question and evaluation, then return to the Cardiology CNE/CNS Following the completion of this module you will receive 6 hours professional development time, which will be credited to your individual training database. Overview of the Heart The heart is a muscular organ that acts like a pump to continuously send blood throughout your body. The heart is at the centre of the circulatory system. This system consists of a network of blood vessels, such as arteries, veins, and capillaries. These blood vessels carry blood to and from all areas of the body. An electrical system regulates the heart and uses electrical signals to contract the heart's walls. When the walls contract, blood is pumped into the circulatory system. A system of inlet and outlet valves in the heart chambers work to ensure that blood flows in the right direction. The heart is vital to your health and nearly everything that goes on in the body. Without the heart's pumping action, blood can't circulate within the body. Blood carries the oxygen and nutrients that your organs need to work normally. Blood also carries carbon dioxide, a waste product, to your lungs to be passed out of the body and into
