Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, blood, right, left, cardiac, ventricles, artery, valves, coronary, ventricle, atrium, posterior, interventricular, pulmonary, anterior


oxygen and nutrients that your organs need to work normally. Blood also carries carbon dioxide, a waste product, to your lungs to be passed out of the body and into the air. A healthy heart supplies the areas of the body with the right amount of blood at the rate needed to work normally. If disease or injury weakens the heart, the body's organs won't receive enough blood to work normally. Location, Size and Shape of the Heart The heart is located underneath the sternum in a thoracic compartment called the mediastinum, which occupies the space between the lungs. It is approximately the size of a man’s fist (250-350grams) and is shaped like an inverted cone. The narrow end of the heart is called the apex. It is directed downward and to the left and lie just above the arch of the diaphragm at the approximate level of the fifth or sixth rib.The broad end of the heart is called the base and gives rise to the major blood vessels, which is directed upwards and to the right and lies at the approximate level of the second rib. Surrounding the hearts is a fibrous sac called the pericardium, which performs several functions. Fluid within the sac lubricates the outer wall of the heart so it can beat without causing friction. It also holds the heart in place forms a barrier against infections and helps keep the heart from over expanding. The pericardium is made up of a coronal section which comprises of two walls and a thin intervening space. The outer wall is thickest and consists of two tissue layers. The external layer is formed by a dense irregular connective tissue and is often called the fibrous pericardium. This layer protects the heart and anchors it to nearby organs. At the roots of the major blood vessels, the parietal pericardium reflects back over the surface of the heart to form the inner wall of the pericardium, the visceral pericardium. Because it is the outer layer of the heart wall, the visceral pericardium is referred to as the epicardium. Together, the parietal and visceral paricardial layers are also called the serous pericardium. Between the walls of the serous pericardium is the pericardial cavity. This narrow space is normally filled with a few (10-15) millilitres of pericardial fluid, which is secreted by the serous membranes. The fluid reduces friction between membranes as
