Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, blood, right, left, cardiac, ventricles, artery, valves, coronary, ventricle, atrium, posterior, interventricular, pulmonary, anterior


pericardial cavity. This narrow space is normally filled with a few (10-15) millilitres of pericardial fluid, which is secreted by the serous membranes. The fluid reduces friction between membranes as they glide past one another during heartbeats. The heart wall is composed of three tissue layers. Covering the outer surface of the heart is the epicardium. It is also referred to as the visceral pericardium, which is the inner layer of the pericardium. The epicardium is a serous membrane that consists of an external layer of simple squamous and an inner layer of areolar tissue (loose connective tissue). The squamous cells secrete lubricating fluids into the pericardial cavity. The thick middle layer of the heart wall is called the myocardium. It consists of numerous layers of cardiac muscle fibres that wrap around the heart wall. Contraction of the myocardium pumps blood out of the heart into the aorta and pulmonary trunk arteries. Covering the outer surface of the heart wall is the endcardium. This layer also covers the heart valves and tendons and is continuous with the endothelium that lines the major blood vessels that attach to the heart. The endocardium is made up of thin layer of simple squamous cells and areolar tissue, similar to the epicardium. Secretions from the squamous cells help regulate the activity of the myocardium. The Chambers of the Hearts The heart is made up of four chambers. The superior chamber consists of the right atrium and the left atrium, which lie primarily on the posterior side of the heart. Extending anteriorly from each thin walled atrium is a small, ear-shaped appendage called auricle that expands the volume of the chamber. Blood drains into the atria from the pulmonary and systemic circulatory system. Composing the lower chambers are the right ventricle and left ventricle, which are much larger than the atria. The right ventricle pumps blood through the pulmonary circulatory system and the thicker walled left ventricle pumps blood through the longer systemic circulatory system. Internally, the two ventricles are separated by a thick myocardial wall called the interventricular septum. On the anterior surface of the heart, the interventricular septum is marked by a shallow diagonal groove known as the anterior interventricular sulcus (or groove), which is occupied the anterior interventricular artery, great cardiac vein and adipose tissue. On the posterior surface of the heart, the ventricles are separated by the posterior interventricular sulcus, which
