Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, blood, right, left, cardiac, ventricles, artery, valves, coronary, ventricle, atrium, posterior, interventricular, pulmonary, anterior


which is occupied the anterior interventricular artery, great cardiac vein and adipose tissue. On the posterior surface of the heart, the ventricles are separated by the posterior interventricular sulcus, which contains the posterior interior artery, middle cardiac vein and adipose tissue. The Circulation System The major vessels of the heart are the large arteries and veins that attach to the atria, ventricles and transport blood to and from the systemic circulatory system and pulmonary circulation system. Blood is delivered to the right atrium from the systemic circulatory system by two veins. The superior vena cava transport oxygen-depleted blood from the upper extremities, heard and neck. The inferior vena cava transport oxygen-depleted blood from the thorax, abdomen and lower extremities. Blood exits the right ventricles through the pulmonary trunk artery. Approximately two inches superior to the base of the heart, this vessel branches into the left and right pulmonary arteries, which transport blood into the lungs. The left pulmonary veins and right pulmonary veins return oxygen-ated blood from the lungs to the left atrium. Blood passes from the left atrium into the left ventricle and then is pumped into the systemic circulatory system through a large elastic artery called the aorta. The Heart Valve Anatomy Four valves maintain the unidirectional flow of blood through the heart. The valves are located between each atrium and ventricle and in the two arteries that empty blood from the ventricle. These valves are primarily composed of fibrous connective tissues that originate and extend from the heart walls. The external surfaces of the valves are covered by endocardium. The Tricuspid valve (right atroventricular) is composed of three caps or flaps and controls blood flow from the right atrium to the right ventricle. The bicuspid valve is made up of two cusps or flaps and controls blood flow from the left atrium to the left ventricle. The term mitral valve is also commonly applied because the left AV valve is shaped somewhat like a bishop’s miter. Thin tendon like cord called chordae tendineae connect the AV valves to cone shaped papillary muscles that extend upward from the myocardium. The chordea tendineae and papillary muscles tether the AV valves to the ventricular walls. This allows the valves to close properly and not bulge (or prolapse) into the atria. Semilunar valves direct blood flow from the ventricles into the aorta and pulmonary trunk artery. The valves are located in
