Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, blood, right, left, cardiac, ventricles, artery, valves, coronary, ventricle, atrium, posterior, interventricular, pulmonary, anterior


close properly and not bulge (or prolapse) into the atria. Semilunar valves direct blood flow from the ventricles into the aorta and pulmonary trunk artery. The valves are located in the vessels just above the opening to ventricles. Each consists of three cusps that curve upwards to from small pockets. The four heart valves open and close in response to pressure changes that occur in the ventricles during each cardiac cycle. When the ventricles relax their pressures drop below those of the atria, pulmonary trunk artery and aorta. This allows the AV valves to open as their cusps passively drop downwards. The pressure change additionally permits blood to flow into the ventricles from the atria without restriction. The semilunar valves close during this same period as blood flowing toward the ventricles collects in the pockets of the cusps. Closure of the semilunar valves prevents blood from re-entering the ventricles while they are relaxing. After filling with blood, the ventricles contract and their rising pressures forces blood up towards the atria and into the pulmonary trunk and aorta. Blood pushing up under the cusps causes the atrioventricular valves to close. As a result, blood enters the atria from the pulmonary veins but not from the ventricles. At the same time, rising pressure in pulmonary trunk artery and aorta forces the semilunar valves to open and blood flow into systemic and pulmonary circulatory systems. When the ventricles begin to relax, pressure in the chambers drop again and a new cardiac cycle begins. Coronary Arteries The heart receives nutrients and gases from its own set of arteries, veins and capillaries called the coronary circulatory system. Blood enters the coronary circulatory system through the left coronary artery and the right coronary artery, which exit the aorta just above the cusps of the semilunar valves. After running a short distance between the pulmonary trunk artery and left auricle, the left coronary artery emerges onto the anterior surface of the heart. Near this point, it branches into the anterior interventricular artery (left anterior descending artery) and the left circumflex artery. The anterior interventricular artery lies in the anterior interventricular sulcus and gives off branches that supply blood to the anterior ventricles and anterior interventricular septum. The left circumflex artery runs along the coronary sulcus (between the left atrium and ventricle) to the posterior side of the heart, where it usually ends in an anastomosis with the
