Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, blood, right, left, cardiac, ventricles, artery, valves, coronary, ventricle, atrium, posterior, interventricular, pulmonary, anterior


left circumflex artery runs along the coronary sulcus (between the left atrium and ventricle) to the posterior side of the heart, where it usually ends in an anastomosis with the right coronary artery. One or more left marginal arteries typically branch from the left circuflex artery as it travels around the heart. The left circumflex artery and its branches supply blood to the left atrium and the lateral and posterior portions of the left ventricles. The right coronary artery travels along the coronary sulcus (between the right atrium and ventricle) where it typically gives off smaller branches to the right atrium. AV nodes (80% of people) and SA nodes (55% of people). Larger right marginal arteries also diverge from the right coronary artery as it continues around the heart. The right marginal arteries supply blood to the lateral wall of the right ventricle. On the posterior surface of the heart, the right coronary artery typically (80%-85% of people) give rise to the posrterior interventricular artery (PIV) or posterior descending artery (PDA), which runs along the posterior interventricular sulcus and the posterior interventricular septum. Coronary Veins After flowing through the myocardium, most (80%) of the oxygen-depleted blood is returned to the right atrium by several prominent veins that run along the surface of the heart. Draining blood from the anterior ventricle is the great cardiac vein. This vessel originates at the apex of the heart and runs superiorly along the anterior interventricular sulcus (next to the anterior interventricular artery). Near the right atrium, the great cardiac vein veers to the left and enters the coronary sulcus (between the left atrium and ventricle), where it extends to the back side of the heart. One or more left marginal veins typically merge with the great cardiac vein as it traverses the lateral ventricular wall. Small anterior cardiac veins also drain blood from the anterior right ventricle directly into the right atrium. Blood is removed from the lateral and posterior right ventricle (and atrium) by the small cardiac vein, which travels to the posterior surface of the heart in the coronary sulcus. Along its path, the small cardiac vein receives blood from the one or more right marginal veins. One the posterior side of the heart, the great and small cardiac veins merge with the coronary sinus, which empties into the right atrium. The coronary sinuses also receives blood from the middle cardiac vein
