Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, blood, right, left, cardiac, ventricles, artery, valves, coronary, ventricle, atrium, posterior, interventricular, pulmonary, anterior


the heart, the great and small cardiac veins merge with the coronary sinus, which empties into the right atrium. The coronary sinuses also receives blood from the middle cardiac vein that ascends along the posterior interventricular groove and the posterior vein of the left ventricle. Cardiac Muscle Tissue Cardiac muscle cells make up the myocardium portion of the heart wall. They are relatively short, branched fibers that measure approximately 10-20 micrometers in diameter and 50 to 100 micrometers in length. Typically each cardiac myocyte contains a single nucleus, which is centrally positioned. Thick and thin myofilaments are present and prganized into myofibrils. Their overlapping arrangement creates alternating dark (A) and light (I) bands or striations, similar to those seen in skeletal muscle tissue. Sarcoplasmic reticulum tubules surround the myofibrils. However, there are not well organised and do not have termial cisternae. T-tubules are also present, but run along the Z-discs (instead of the myofilament overlap zones). The mitichondria in cardiac myocytes are large and numerous. They supply the ATP needed for repeated contraction of the heart. Unlike other types of muscle tissues, cardiac myocytes are joined end to end by intercalated discs. These complex, highly convoluted couplings contain both anchoring junctions and electrical junctions. Forming the anchoring junctions are fascia adherens and desmosomes, which arrach the adjacent myocyte. The electrical junctions are composed of connexon protein channels, which usually occur in clusters referred to as gap junctions. Connexon proteins span the distance between adjacent plasma membranes and ions can travel through the channel pores. Th ion movement allows action potentials to pass directly from cell to cell. This property makes the entrie myocardium act like a single cell. The Conduction System The conducting system of the heart consists of cardiac muscle cells and conducting fibers (not nervous tissue) that are specialized for initiating impulses and conducting them rapidly through the heart. They initiate the normal cardiac cycle and coordinate the contractions of cardiac chambers. The conducting system provides the heart its automatic rhythmic beat. For the heart to pump efficiently and the systemic and pulmonary circulations to operate in synchrony, the events in the cardiac cycle must be coordinated. The sinoatrial (SA) node is a spindle-shaped structure composed of a fibrous tissue matrix with closely packed cells. It is 10-20 mm long, 2-3 mm wide, and thick, tending to narrow caudally toward the inferior vena cava. The SA node is
