Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, blood, right, left, cardiac, ventricles, artery, valves, coronary, ventricle, atrium, posterior, interventricular, pulmonary, anterior


fibrous tissue matrix with closely packed cells. It is 10-20 mm long, 2-3 mm wide, and thick, tending to narrow caudally toward the inferior vena cava. The SA node is located less than 1 mm from the epicardial surface, laterally in the right atrial sulcus terminalis at the junction of the anteromedial aspect of the superior vena cava (SVC) and the right atrium (RA). The middle internodal tract begins at the superior and posterior margins of the sinus node, travels behind the SVC to the crest of the interatrial septum, and descends in the interatrial septum to the superior margin of the AV node. The posterior internodal tract starts at the posterior margin of the sinus node and travels posteriorly around the SVC and along the crista terminalis to the eustachian ridge and then into the interatrial septum above the coronary sinus, where it joins the posterior portion of the AV node. These groups of internodal tissue are best referred to as internodal atrial myocardium, not tracts, as they do not appear to be histologically discrete specialized tracts. In 85-90% of human heart, the arterial supply to the AV node is a branch from the right coronary artery which originates at the posterior intersection of the AV and interventricular groove. In the remaining 10-15% of the heart, a branch of the left circumflex coronary artery provides the AV nodal artery. Fibres in the lower part of the AV node may exhibit automatic impulse formation. The main function of the AV node is modulation of the atrial impulse transmission to the ventricles to coordinate atrial and ventricle contractions. Bundle of His The bundle of His is a structure that connects with the distal part if the compact AV node, perforates the central fibrous body and continues through the annulus fibrous, where it is called the non branching portion as it penetrates the membranous septum. Connective tissue of the central fibrous body and membranous septum encloses the penetrating portion of the AV bundle, which may send out extensions into the central fibrous body. Proximal cells of the penetrating portion are heterogeneous and resemble those of the compact AV node; distal cells are similar to cells in the proximal bundle branches. Branches from the anterior and posterior descending coronary arteries supply the upper muscular interventricular septum with blood, which makes the conduction system at this site more impervious to the ischemic damage, unless
