Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, blood, right, left, cardiac, ventricles, artery, valves, coronary, ventricle, atrium, posterior, interventricular, pulmonary, anterior


the anterior and posterior descending coronary arteries supply the upper muscular interventricular septum with blood, which makes the conduction system at this site more impervious to the ischemic damage, unless the ischemia is extensive. Bundle branches The bundle branches originate at the superior margin of the muscle interventricular septum, immediately below the membranous septum with the cells of the left bundle branch cascading downward as a continuous sheet onto the septum beneath the noncoronary aortic cusp. The right bundle branch continues intramycardially as an unbranched extension of the AV bundle down the right side of the interventricular septum to the apex of the right ventricle and base of the anterior papillary muscle. The anatomy of the left bundle branch system may be variable and may not conform to a constant bifascicluar division. Punkinje fibers Punkinje fibers connect with the ends of the bundle branches to form interwearving network on the endocardial surface of both ventricles. These fibers transmit the cardiac impulse almost simultaneously to the entrie right and left ventricle endocardium. Punkinje fibers tend to be less concentrated at the base of the ventricles and the papillary muscle tips and only penetrate the inner third of the endocardium. They appear to be more resistant to ischemia than ordinary myocardial fibers. Cardiac Cycle The cardiac cycle is the sequence of events that occur when the heart beats. The cycle has two main phases: diastole – when the heart ventricles are relaxed and systole – when the ventricles contract. In a cardiac cycle, blood enters the right atrium of the heart from the superior and inferior vena cavae, and flows across the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle. From the right ventricle the blood flows into the pulmonary artery, which is separated from the ventricle by the pulmonary valve. After oxygenation in the lungs, blood returns to the heart via four pulmonary veins that enter the left atrium. From the left atrium, blood flows across the mitral valve and into the left ventricle. From the left ventricle blood is ejected across the aortic valve into the aorta. Together, the mitral and tricuspid valves are known as the atrioventricular valves and the aortic and pulmonary valves as the semilunar valves. From a mechanical point of view, the cardiac cycle is due to blood movement as result of pressure differences within the chambers of the heart. In order for blood to flow through a
