Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, blood, right, left, cardiac, ventricles, artery, valves, coronary, ventricle, atrium, posterior, interventricular, pulmonary, anterior


point of view, the cardiac cycle is due to blood movement as result of pressure differences within the chambers of the heart. In order for blood to flow through a blood vessel or through a heart valve, there must be force acting on the blood. This force is provided by the difference in blood pressure (a pressure gradient) across these structures by the contractions of the heart. Each heart beat, or cardiac cycle, is divided into two phases of contraction and relaxation, stimulated by elctricla impulses from the sinoatrial node (SA node). The time during which ventricular contraction occurs is called systole. The thime between ventricular contraction, during which ventricular filling occurs is called diastole 9also known as the relaxation phase). In early diastole, the ventricles relax, the semilunar valve close, the atrioventricular valves open and the ventricles fill with blood. In mid diastole, the atria and ventricles are relaxed, the semilunar valves are closed, the atrioventricular valves are open and the ventricles keep filling with blood. In late diastole, the SA node sends and electrical impulse to the atria, this causes the atria to contract and the ventricles to fill wit more blood. The electrical signal that causes contraction moves from the atria toward the ventricles. Before it does, it reaches the atrioventricular node (AV node). The AV node delays the signal so that the ventricles can contract all at once rather than a little bit at a time. Prior to systole, the electrical signal passes from the AV node down the AV bundl, also known as the bundle of His to the Punkinje fibers. The fibers allow the fast spread of the electrical signal to all parts of the ventricles and the electrical signal causes the ventricles to contract. Systole begins with the closure if the atrioventricular valves. During systole, the ventricles contract, the semi- lumar vwalves open and bloos is pumped from the ventricles to the aorta. Blood pressure is highest during systole and lowest during diastole. It has two components, the systole and diastole pressure. Normal systole pressure for an adult is estimates at 120 mmhg and normal diastole pressure is estimated at 80 mmhg.
