Signal Transduction and Targeted Therapy
KEYWORDS: liver, etal, hepatol, disease, signaling, hcc, prevalence, patients, masld, cirrhosis, hepatitis, diseases, treatment, global, epidemiology


people worldwide are infected with HDV, the exact prevalence of lean MASLD underscores the need for tailored prevalence rates are elusive due to a dearth of comprehensive diagnosticandscreeningapproachesinAsiancountrieslikeChina studies. The most affected countries include Benin, Gabon, to prevent underdiagnosis, considering unique regional and Mauritania, Nauru, and Mongolia, with the latter exhibiting the ethniccharacteristics.79 highest rate at 36.9% of HBsAg-positive individuals co-infected ALDremainsamajorglobalhealthconcern.Roughly2.4billion with HDV. Despite a global decline in HDV due to vaccination people consume alcohol worldwide, contributing to about initiatives,persistenthighprevalenceinregionslikeMoldovaand 2 million deaths from liver disease annually, half of which are partsofAfricaandAsiaunderscoreanongoinghealthburden.60,61 related to cirrhosis from alcohol consumption. ALD ranks among the top 30 causes of death globally, with a death rate from Chronic hepatitis C. In 2020, approximately 57 million people alcohol-attributablecirrhosisof7.2per100,000peoplein2010(4.6 were estimated to be living with chronic HCV infection globally, in females and 9.7 in males).80 The relationship between liver- exhibiting a viremia prevalence rate of 0.7%. Over 70% of these related death rates and alcohol consumption levels varies by cases were concentrated in low- and middle-income countries. country.Europeancountrieshavehistoricallybeenthelargestper The highest burdens of HCV are seen in China, India, Pakistan, capitaconsumersofalcohol,thoughconsumptiondecreasedfrom Russia, and the U.S., with 30 countries collectively accounting for 12.3 to 9.8 liters annually between 2005 and 2016. Conversely, 80%ofthe globalHCV burden.62 alcohol consumption has been increasing in the Western Pacific, HighHCVprevalenceregionsincludeCentralAsia,EastAsia,and South-East Asia, and the Americas, with future growth projected the North Africa-Middle East, each with over 3.5% of the untilatleast2025.81InChina,alcoholconsumptionhasincreased population affected. Moderate prevalence rates (1.5-3.5%) are more rapidly over the past 30 years than in any other country.82 noted in Southeast Asia, the Andes, Central and South Latin Countries like the U.S. are also reporting rising rates of harmful America,Oceania,theCaribbean,Europe,andsub-SaharanAfrica. drinking. In 2019, nations severely affected by ALD included Contrastingly, some Western European nations like the U.K., Mongolia,Kazakhstan,ElSalvador,Guatemala,Greenland,Kyrgyz- Denmark, France, Germany, Sweden, and Switzerland report HCV stan,Poland,Rwanda,Ireland,andBrazil,allofwhichexhibithigh seroprevalence rates of less than 1%. The Asia-Pacific region, alcoholconsumptioncorrelatingwithelevatedALDincidenceand tropicalLatinAmerica,andNorthAmericaeachhaverelativelylow mortalityrates.21 prevalencerates,under1.5%.63Despiteadecreasingglobaltrend During the COVID-19 pandemic, social isolation and psycholo- in HCV prevalence, there is a critical need for focused interven- gical stress significantly boosted alcohol consumption in certain tions and increased attention in high-burden countries and populations in the U.S. and Europe, potentially exacerbating ALD and ALD continue to pose significant challenges due to their Chronic metabolic liver diseases—MASLD and ALD. MASLD has complexetiologyinvolvinggeneticpredisposition,environmental rapidly become the most prevalent chronic liver disease world- factors, and lifestyle choices such as diet and alcohol
