Signal Transduction and Targeted Therapy
KEYWORDS: liver, etal, hepatol, disease, signaling, hcc, prevalence, patients, masld, cirrhosis, hepatitis, diseases, treatment, global, epidemiology


forinter- summary,variouslivercelltypesareresponsibleforHSCactivation organ communications in their development. Recently, the gut- toinduce liverfibrosis. liver-brain and adipose-liver homeostasis has gained much attention.361 In this section, we summarize the recent research Macrophages on the importance of liver-organ interactions concerning meta- As the predominant immune cell type in the liver, macrophages bolism,immunesystem, andnervous system. playcrucialrolesinmaintainingliverhomeostasisandresponding todiseases.Hepaticmacrophagesarecomposedbyliver-resident Gut-liver-brainaxis Kupffer cells (KCs) and monocyte-derived macrophages (MoMFs), Numerouspreclinicalandclinicalstudieshavehighlightedtherole twoheterogeneoussubpopulationswithdistinctfunctions.342KCs of abnormal gut microbiota and their metabolites in impairing primarily serve as the main source of hepatic macrophages in a intestinal barrier function, further contributing to liver diseases. healthy liver, responsible for sensing injury signals and clearing Increased permeability is reported in mice fed a high-fat diet or cellulardebris.343Underinflammatoryconditions,MoMFsinfiltrate with excessive ethanol intake.362,363 Gut leakage leads to the andbecomethemajorcomponentofhepaticmacrophageswith deliveryofpathogensandtheirmetabolitestotheliverviaportal the loss of KCs.344 Macrophages play essential roles in liver vein. In patients with MASH, gut microbiomes predominantly inflammation and fibrosis via the production of inflammatory exhibit Gram-positive Firmicutes. However, there is a decrease in SignalTransductionandTargetedTherapy (2025) 10:33 Liverdiseases:epidemiology,causes,trendsandpredictions Ganetal. Firmicutes and an increase in Gram-negative Proteobacteria hypertrophy,hyperplasia,andabnormaladipokineproduction.385 abundance as liver fibrosis develops.364 Animal studies demon- Chronicethanolexposurealsodisruptstheendocrinefunctionof strate that germ-free mice fed a high-fat diet show reduced liver adiposetissue.386Forexample,adiponectin,whichpromotesliver steatosisandinsulinresistancecomparedtowild-typemiceonthe glucoseuseandfatty acidoxidation, isfoundtobedecreased in same diet.365 This beneficial effect disappears following fecal MASLD and ALD; however, exogenous supplementation of microbiota transplantation (FMT) from MASLD mice to germ-free adiponectin alleviates high-fat diet- and ethanol-induced liver mice, resulting in increased liver triglyceride content and steatosis and insulin resistance.387 Leptin, an adipocyte-derived inflammation.366 These data indicate that dysregulated gut hormonethatinhibitsappetiteandincreasesfattyacidoxidation, microbiota is essential for the progression of MASLD. Besides becomes resistant in MASLD. In obese individuals, higher serum pathogenicbacteria,theirmetabolitesalsomediateliverdiseases. leptin levels correlate with greater severity of liver inflamma- For instance, short chain fatty acids (SCFAs) produced by gut tion.388Incontrast,inflammatorycytokinessuchasIL-1βandTNF- bacteria have been linked to promoting hepatic de novo α are produced by these diseased adipocytes. The inflammatory lipogenesis and glucose production, exacerbating the develop- microenvironment recruits immune cell infiltration and further ment of MASLD and ALD in mouse models.367,368 In contrast, promotes adipocyte lipolysis. Systemic release of fatty acids and acetate, another type of SCFA, could block the IL-6/JAK1/ cytokines flows into the liver and aggravates liver steatosis and STAT3 signaling pathway via binding to hepatocyte-derived inflammation.389 GPR43, and reverse the development of MASLD-associated Conversely, the liver also interacts with adipose tissue. HCC.369ThissuggeststhecomplexfunctionsofSCFAcomponents Fibroblast growth factor-21 (FGF-21), an endocrine hormone on liver injury. In addition, gut bacteria-derived lipopolysacchar- mainly produced by
