Heart Transplantation
KEYWORDS: heart, transplant, rejection, transplantation, cardiac, patients, heart transplant, year, pulmonary, donor, years, heart transplantation, devices, failure, cardiac allograft


Heart transplantation is an option for patients who have any of the following and who remain at risk of death and have intolerable symptoms despite optimal use of medications and medical devices: End-stage heart failure Coronary artery disease Arrhythmias Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy or other cardiomyopathy Congenital heart disease Transplantation may also be indicated for patients who: Cannot be weaned from temporary cardiac-assist devices after myocardial infarction or nontransplant cardiac surgery Have cardiac sequelae of a lung disorder requiring lung transplantation Absolute contraindications for heart transplantation are (1): Severe pulmonary hypertension that does not respond to preoperative treatments (although heart-lung transplant may be an option) Anatomic incompatibility of the central pulmonary artery or pulmonary veins (although heart-lung transplant may be an option) Excessive alcohol use and poor medication adherence Relative contraindications include (1): Age > 70 years Obesity Life-limiting systemic disease: cancer; diabetes; pulmonary, kidney, cerebrovascular disease Local or systemic infiltrative disorders (eg, cardiac sarcoma, amyloidosis) General contraindications to transplantation (eg, active cancer, uncontrolled systemic infection, active substance use disorder, nonadherence to therapy, limited life-expectancy for reasons unrelated to the transplant) should also be considered. All donated hearts come from brain-dead donors, who are usually required to be < 70 years and have normal cardiac and pulmonary function and no history of coronary artery disease or other heart disorders. Donor and recipient must have compatible ABO blood type and heart size. Pretransplant waitlist mortality was 8.5 deaths per 100 person-years in the United States in 2023 (2). (See also Overview of Transplantation.) Bridge and destination ventricular assist devices (VADs) Left ventricular assist devices and artificial hearts provide interim hemodynamic support for patients waiting for a transplant (bridge-to-transplantation). In addition, ventricular assist devices are used to treat some patients who are not candidates for transplantation (destination therapy). Infection, which may originate at the skin insertion site of the drive lines, is a concern. Other risks include right heart failure (acute or chronic), sepsis, device failure, and thromboembolism. Despite the risks, there are patients who have survived and have been well for several years after these devices were implanted. Procedure for Heart Transplantation Donor hearts are preserved by hypothermic storage. They must be transplanted within 4 to 6 hours. Ex situ heart perfusion, an in vitro pump system that perfuses the explanted donor heart with the goal of improving graft survival, and potentially prolonging transplant viability > 4 to 6 hours is in early
