Heart Transplantation
KEYWORDS: heart, transplant, rejection, transplantation, cardiac, patients, heart transplant, year, pulmonary, donor, years, heart transplantation, devices, failure, cardiac allograft


in vitro pump system that perfuses the explanted donor heart with the goal of improving graft survival, and potentially prolonging transplant viability > 4 to 6 hours is in early use and development (1). These systems have also allowed the use of cardiac grafts retrieved from donors after cardiac arrest. The recipient is placed on a bypass pump, and the recipient's heart is removed, preserving the posterior right atrial wall in situ. The donor heart is then transplanted orthotopically (in its normal position) with aortic, pulmonary artery, and pulmonary vein anastomoses; a single anastomosis joins the retained posterior atrial wall to that of the donor organ. Immunosuppressive regimens vary but usually include anti-IL-2 receptor monoclonal antibodies, a calcineurin inhibitor, and glucocorticoids (see table Immunosuppressants Used to Treat Transplant Rejection). Rejection Incidence of acute rejection peaks at 1 month, decreases over the next 5 months, and levels off by 1 year. Approximately 15% of adult heart transplant recipients have an episode of rejection within the first year after transplant (1). Many patients are asymptomatic, but some develop left ventricle dysfunction or atrial arrhythmias. Because graft damage can be irreversible and catastrophic, surveillance endomyocardial biopsy is usually done once per year; degree and distribution of mononuclear cell infiltrate and presence of myocyte injury in specimens are determined. Differential diagnosis includes perioperative ischemia, cytomegalovirus infection, and idiopathic B-cell infiltration (Quilty lesions). Clinical manifestations of rejection can be classified according to onset, duration (see table Manifestations of Heart Transplant Rejection by Category). Histologic classification of rejection is graded from 1 to 4. Mild rejection (grade 1) without detectable clinical sequelae requires no treatment; moderate or severe rejection (grades 2 to 4) or mild rejection with clinical sequelae is treated with glucocorticoid pulses (eg, methylprednisolone) and antithymocyte globulin as needed. The grading scale for rejection reflects progressive degrees of abnormality on histologic examination of biopsy specimens. TABLE Manifestations of Heart Transplant Rejection by Category* Rejection Category Manifestations Hyperacute Cardiogenic shock Accelerated Atrial arrhythmia, cardiogenic shock Acute Heart failure, atrial arrhythmia Dyspnea during exertion, low stress Chronic tolerance * Most patients with heart transplant rejection are asymptomatic. Cardiac allograft vasculopathy The main long-term complication of heart transplantation is cardiac allograft vasculopathy, a form of atherosclerosis that diffusely narrows or obliterates vessel lumina. Approximately 30% of adult heart transplant patients develop some degree of cardiac allograft vasculopathy within 5 years of transplantation (2). Its cause is probably
