Pinkesetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2019) 19:891
KEYWORDS: valve, aortic, patient, case, endocarditis, hirae, aortic valve, enterococcal, cases, history, treatment, patients, replacement, weeks, gentamicin


COPD, asthma, replacement with a bovine pericardial valve, cryoablation recurring right lower extremity DVT, achalasia, atrial of both atria, and clipping of the left atrial appendage. fibrillation (on warfarin), fibromyalgia, hypertension, The aortic valve was found to have a bicuspid, thickened hypothyroidism, cholecystectomy, and a distant history appearance with calcifications, multiple small vegetations, of Hodgkin’s lymphoma (for which she received chemo- andarootabscessbeneaththerightcoronarycusp.Witha therapy). BMI was 30.62kg/m2. She denied chest pain new suspicion of infective endocarditis, the patient was was found to be in atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricu- vancomycin and piperacillin/tazobactam. Two intra- lar response and complained of palpitations. Physical operative peripheral blood cultures were taken, and an exam was notable for expiratory wheezes and a 2/6 infectiousdiseaseconsultwasrequested. systolic ejection murmur at the right sternal border. She One day post-surgery, the level of C-reactive protein spontaneously converted to sinus rhythm after receiving wasmeasuredat8.4mg/L,andthesedimentationratewas intravenous metoprolol, and her EKG showed T-wave 46mm/hr. Three days post-surgery, a tissue culture from inversion in the inferior leads. Her labs showed a white the aortic valve vegetations identified Enterococcus hirae blood cell count of 8.0×103/mm3, an INR of 5.7, a through MALDI-TOF. The tissue sample was sensitive to hematocrit of 25.6%, a troponin I level of 0.05ng/mL, ampicillin, amoxicillin, and vancomycin, and it demon- andaBNP of6696pg/mL.Stool guaiacs were positive.A strated synergy with gentamicin and streptomycin. Anti- chest x-ray and CT of the abdomen and pelvis were biotic treatment was then switched to intravenous negative for acute disease. A 2D echocardiogram ampicillin and ceftriaxone; the patient declined aminogly- revealed severe aortic stenosis with a peak gradient of coside treatment due to concerns of nephrotoxicity. Both 91mmHg, a mean gradient of 61mmHg, and normal bloodcultureswerenegativeforbacterialgrowth.Thepa- systolic left ventricular function (see Figs. 1 and 2). She tient denied any exposuretopsittacine birds, poultry, and was given two units of packed red blood cells, four units sucklinganimals,aswellasrecenttravel. offreshfrozenplasma,andfluconazole. The patient had an uncomplicated postoperative Four days after initial presentation, the patient under- course. She was discharged with the goal of 6 weeks of went right and leftheart catheterization for evaluationof treatmentwith intravenous ampicillinandceftriaxone. Fig.1Parasternallong-axisviewon2Dtransthoracicechocardiogramuponpatient'sinitialpresentation,demonstratingnormalleftventricular systolicfunctionandsevereaorticstenosiswithnoindicationsofvegetationsorinfectiousprocesses Pinkesetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2019) 19:891 Page3of5 Fig.2Parasternalshort-axisviewfromthesameechocardiogram Two months after her discharge, two peripheral blood both the aortic andmitral valves .Additionally, there cultures were negative for bacterial growth. Ten months were underlying risk factors for cardiac pathology in each after her discharge, the patient presented for multifocal of the first three cases, as well as in ours:
