Pinkesetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2019) 19:891
KEYWORDS: valve, aortic, patient, case, endocarditis, hirae, aortic valve, enterococcal, cases, history, treatment, patients, replacement, weeks, gentamicin


growth. Ten months were underlying risk factors for cardiac pathology in each after her discharge, the patient presented for multifocal of the first three cases, as well as in ours: a history of pneumonia,andblood cultureswerefoundtobenegative coronary artery disease and percutaneous transluminal then as well. Fifteen months after her initial presentation, coronary angioplasty ; prior aortic valve replacement thepatient had a follow-upappointment withCardiology. with a bioprosthetic valve ; cardiac arrhythmia with Mild mitral and mild tricuspid regurgitation were noted, prior surgical ablation, and a patent foramen ovale ; and a 1/6 systolic murmur was appreciated at the right and a bicuspid aortic valve, respectively. The pastmedical upper sternal border. A comprehensive 2D transthoracic history for the fourth case was not reported, although it Dopplerechocardiogramatthetimeshowedawellseated was noted that this patient had lived in Vietnam for 2 aortic bioprosthetic valve with normal-sized aortic root years,withrecenttravelthroughoutSoutheastAsia. and without evidence of dehiscence, paravalvular leak, or All five cases involved a history of at least 1 month of aorticstenosis. subacute symptoms, typically fever, weight loss, fatigue, and weakness [8–11]. The fourth case presented with 3 Discussion and conclusions months of bilateral lower extremity edema, exertional Though enterococci are estimated to cause 5–15% of dyspnea, and fatigue . Two patients presented bacterial endocarditis, enterococcal endocarditis is a acutely, and both acute presentations did not at first relatively uncommon sequela of enterococcal bacteremia appear to be infective endocarditis. One case presented . Between 0.5–8% of patients with enterococcal acutelywithdysarthria,lefthemiparesis,andabrainlesion bacteremia may be diagnosed with enterococcal endo- on MRI . Our case presented with hypotension and carditis . Risk factorsfor enterococcal bacteremia atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response, in the and endocarditis have been identified as increased age, context of a history of 2 weeks of lightheadedness, dizzi- male gender, underlying cardiac pathology, and agenito- ness,near-syncopalepisodes,andmildvisualdisturbances. urinary or biliary source . Other factors Noneofthefivecasesinvolvedadocumentedsourceof common to enterococcal endocarditis include aortic or entry, including a genitourinary or biliary source, though mitral valve involvement and a subacute presentation [1, somepatientshaddistanthistoriesofgastricsurgery.Our 7]. In those who abuse drugs, right-sided enterococcal case had positive stool guaiacs and a remote history of endocarditis appears to be rare; mitral and aortic valve cholecystectomy. Only one case was theorized to have a enterococcal involvement remain more common in this probable source, in which the patient had had multiple population. colonic polyps removed and was later found, post-relapse The five known cases of E. hirae endocarditis, as sum-
