Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


ABSTRACT The pituitary and adrenal glands play an integral role in the endocrine and physiological changes of normal pregnancy. These changes are associated with alterations in the normal ranges of endocrine tests and in the appearance of the glands. It is important for the medical team to be aware of these altered normal ranges in the pregnant population. Some disorders affect women more commonly during pregnancy or the puerperium, e.g. lymphocytic hypophysitis, while other pre-existing disorders such as macroprolactinomas can have worse outcomes in pregnancy. Other conditions may be incidental to pregnancy, but management strategies require modification to ensure safety of the pregnant woman and/or fetus. This chapter describes the normal physiological alterations in the pituitary and adrenal glands and describes the impact of disorders of these endocrine glands on pregnant women, the fetus, and children of affected women. It also describes the existing data with regard to safety of drugs used to treat pituitary and adrenal disease in pregnancy. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . PITUITARY DISORDERS IN PREGNANCY Anterior Pituitary Gland Anatomy The pituitary gland enlarges in a three-dimensional fashion by approximately 136% throughout pregnancy ( 1 ). There is a progressive linear increase in pituitary height of approximately 0.12mm for each gestational week ( 2 ), and the gland is thought to reach its peak size in the first 3 days postpartum when it may reach a height of 12mm on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) ( 1 , 2 ). The superior aspect of the gland expands to adopt a dome-like contour moving closer to the optic chiasm ( 3 ). In a study of 171 patients which studied differences in total, anterior and posterior pituitary in pregnant, nulliparous and postpartum women (68 pregnant, 52 post-partum (within 12 months of delivery) and 51 nulliparous) the anterior and total pituitary volumes were significantly larger during pregnancy persisting into the postpartum, while the posterior volume decreased in pregnancy, returning to normal size during the postpartum period ( 4 ). Despite this enlargement, compressive symptoms are not typically seen during pregnancy. Pituitary gland enlargement is related to estrogen-stimulated hypertrophy and hyperplasia of the lactotrophs ( 5 ). While lactotroph cells make up 20% of anterior pituitary cells in the nonpregnant state, they comprise up to 60% by the third trimester of pregnancy ( 6 ). Gonadotrophs decline in number
