Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


cells make up 20% of anterior pituitary cells in the nonpregnant state, they comprise up to 60% by the third trimester of pregnancy ( 6 ). Gonadotrophs decline in number during pregnancy whilst numbers of corticotrophs and thyrotrophs remain constant ( 6 ). Somatotrophs are generally suppressed (as a consequence of negative feedback secondary to high levels of insulin like growth factor-1 which is stimulated by placental growth hormone) and may function as lactotrophs ( 6 , 7 ). After the initial increase in size postpartum there is then a reduction in size back to normal by 6 months postpartum (regardless of breastfeeding status) ( 2 ). An understanding of these anatomical changes is important when investigating suspected pituitary pathology during pregnancy, and also when monitoring pre-existing tumors ( 1 ). Investigation should be reserved for those patients with symptoms or signs consistent with tumor or pituitary enlargement, asymmetrical growth, deviation of the stalk, or when the height of the pituitary is larger than expected in pregnancy ( 8 ). The preferred mode of pituitary imaging in pregnancy is non-contrast MRI, which is considered safe due to the absence of ionizing radiation. There is reassuring evidence for its use in all trimesters with no evidence for adverse pregnancy outcomes ( 9 - 11 ). Prolactin INTRODUCTION Prolactin (PRL) is secreted by the pituitary and a number of extra pituitary sites including the hypothalamus, lymphocytes, uterus, placenta, and lactating mammary gland ( 12 , 13 ). Extra-pituitary secretion, however, is thought to account for only a small proportion of the overall secretion, as supported by one study which reported that hypophysectomized female rats had 10-20% lactogenic activity in their serum compared to control ( 14 ). In combination with other hormones, PRL mediates mammogenesis, lactogenesis, and galactopoiesis, and plays a role in the regulation of humoral and cellular immune responses. Placental estrogen stimulates lactotroph PRL synthesis in the first trimester ( 15 , 16 ) while progesterone also stimulates prolactin secretion ( 17 , 18 ). Prolactin levels progressively increase throughout gestation (approximately 10-fold) ( 19 ), and then decline postpartum in non-lactating women. Despite increased PRL levels, the normal lactotroph continues to respond to TRH and anti-dopaminergic stimulation. Postpartum, the circadian rhythm of PRL release is enhanced by the effects of suckling. FERTILITY Hyperprolactinemia has been reported to account for between 7% and 20% of female infertility ( 20 ).
