Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


circadian rhythm of PRL release is enhanced by the effects of suckling. FERTILITY Hyperprolactinemia has been reported to account for between 7% and 20% of female infertility ( 20 ). It reduces luteinizing hormone (LH) pulse amplitude and frequency through suppression of gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) ( 21 ), and is associated with diminished positive estrogen feedback on gonadotrophin secretion at mid-cycle ( 22 ). Prolactin also has a direct effect on the ovarian granulosa cells and suppresses progesterone and estrogen secretion from the ovaries ( 23 ). It can decrease estrogen levels through a direct effect on ovarian aromatase activity and by blocking the stimulatory effects of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) ( 24 , 25 ). At high levels PRL also inhibits progesterone production ( 26 ). As a consequence, most hyperprolactinemic women become anovulatory with resultant amenorrhea and infertility ( 27 ). PRECONCEPTION MANAGEMENT AND RESTORATION OF MENSES Dopamine agonists remain the treatment of choice for the majority of patients with a prolactinoma. Bromocriptine restores ovulatory menses in 70-80% of patients with 50-75% of patients experiencing an over 50% reduction in size of the pituitary tumor ( 28 , 29 ). Cabergoline is more effective, restoring ovulatory menses in >90% of women and achieving >90% reduction in tumor size ( 28 , 29 ). Bromocriptine, however, has a larger volume of safety data (although the data are reassuring for both), and this should be discussed during the pre-conception counselling period. In addition, bromocriptine is cheaper, and some clinicians may elect to use it as its use has not been reported to have an association with heart valve disease. However, it should be noted that there are no published reports of cardiac valve abnormalities in cabergoline-treated pregnant women or their fetuses. The disadvantages with bromocriptine include twice-daily dosing (vs twice weekly with cabergoline), although this may not be strictly necessary, a greater side effect profile, and inferior effectiveness at normalizing prolactin concentrations ( 30 , 31 ). For women who cannot tolerate bromocriptine, cabergoline should be recommended as 70% of patients who have not responded to bromocriptine respond to cabergoline ( 32 ). In those who do not achieve restoration of menses, clomiphene citrate or recombinant gonadotrophin may be considered for ovulation induction ( 33 ). Surgical therapy is curative in approximately 70-80% of patients with microadenomas and rarely causes hypopituitarism in expert hands. The cure rate is lower (30%) in
