Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


ovulation induction ( 33 ). Surgical therapy is curative in approximately 70-80% of patients with microadenomas and rarely causes hypopituitarism in expert hands. The cure rate is lower (30%) in patients with macroadenomas, and the risk of hypopituitarism and subsequent infertility is markedly increased ( 28 ). All women with prolactinomas should be counselled in the pre-pregnancy period about their potential fertility and pregnancy outcomes to enable informed decision making ( 34 ). EFFECTS OF DOPAMINE AGONISTS ON THE DEVELOPING FETUS Bromocriptine has been shown to cross the placenta in human studies ( 35 ); cabergoline lacks human data but has been found to do so in animal studies. Current recommendations, therefore, advise that women with prolactinomas discontinue dopamine agonist therapy when they discover that they are pregnant ( 29 ). There is a subset of patients in whom this may not apply, e.g. women with macroadenomas, in particular those with an invasive tumor or where it is abutting the optic chiasm. In such cases, the management must be considered on a case by case basis. In the majority of cases, in order to limit the exposure time to the developing fetus it is beneficial to know the timing of the normal menstrual cycle. Use of mechanical contraception may facilitate this if used for the first two to three cycles after starting treatment. As a consequence, women will know when they have missed a period, a pregnancy test can be performed in a timely manner and the dopamine agonist can be stopped in cases where a pregnancy is confirmed. This approach aims to limit the time that the fetus is exposed to bromocriptine to 3-4 weeks and cabergoline to around 5 weeks (as a consequence of its longer half-life ( 21 ). Such short-term exposure to both bromocriptine and cabergoline is unavoidable but reassuringly pregnancy outcomes with respect to spontaneous abortions, terminations, ectopic pregnancies, pre-term births, multiple pregnancies, and malformations do not differ from the normal population. Table 1 summarizes outcome data from 6239 pregnancies following bromocriptine treatment and 968 where the mother took cabergoline ( 21 ). There was no increased risk demonstrated by either drug but due to the greater wealth of experience with bromocriptine it is the preferred drug of choice for those wishing to become pregnant according to the European guideline ( 29 ). Table 1. Pregnancy Outcomes While Taking Bromocriptine or Cabergoline Compared to the
