Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


In microprolactinomas, the risk of clinically significant tumor growth is less than 5%. In contrast, patients with macroprolactinomas are reported to have a 15-35% risk ( 33 , 45 ). This risk can be reduced if the patient undergoes surgery or irradiation prior to pregnancy. MANAGEMENT FOLLOWING CONCEPTION The risk of tumor expansion is sufficiently rare for microprolactinomas that dopamine agonists can be withdrawn on confirmation of pregnancy. For patients with a macroprolactinoma decisions about cessation of therapy should be decided on a case-by-case basis. For some women with intrasellar/ inferiorly extending macroprolactinomas there may be less concern than for those where the tumor has close proximity to the optic chiasm. For all women with macroprolactinomas, it is appropriate to undertake a clinical assessment of the patient in each trimester with particular attention to the presence of headache or visual impairment. Where clinical findings are positive it is then pertinent to perform a MRI scan without contrast, and if evidence of tumor expansion either re-introduce a dopamine antagonist or increase the dose ( 33 ). If this fails neurosurgery (preferably during the second trimester) or delivery (if the pregnancy is sufficiently advanced, e.g. at >37 weeks’ gestation) may be appropriate ( 46 ). If clinical examination or further investigation is reassuring, assessment in each trimester can be re-commenced without changes in treatment. MRI also plays a pertinent role in distinguishing between hemorrhage into a tumor and simple tumor enlargement in those presenting with headache ( 21 ). For patients with previous expansion or an invasive macroprolactinoma, options for management need to be carefully considered by an expert in the field. Options include stopping the dopamine agonist, surgical intervention, or continuing the dopamine agonist throughout pregnancy. Clinical assessment with formal visual fields can be justified every 1-3 months, and if there are positive findings an MRI scan without contrast with a view to addition of dopamine agonist, neurosurgery or delivery where appropriate should be undertaken ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Schematic for the Management of Both Micro- and Macroprolactinomas During pregnancy. The monitoring of prolactin levels yields no diagnostic benefit in the pregnant woman with a prolactinoma as it bears no correlation to tumor growth. In most cases, serum prolactin concentrations will rise with gestation regardless of the presence of a prolactinoma, and it is also possible for tumor size to increase without a simultaneous rise in prolactin level. BREASTFEEDING
