Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


concentrations will rise with gestation regardless of the presence of a prolactinoma, and it is also possible for tumor size to increase without a simultaneous rise in prolactin level. BREASTFEEDING There are no contraindications to breastfeeding in women with prolactinomas. To date, there is no evidence to suggest a significant increase in prolactin levels or symptoms suggestive of tumor enlargement in lactating women ( 20 ). In many women dopamine agonists do not need to be reintroduced during this period. There has even been successful lactation in women with previous surgical resection of a prolactinoma whose prolactin level had not increased during pregnancy. In a study carried out by Narita et al ( 47 ), a third of such women whose prolactin levels had not risen above 30ng/mL during pregnancy were still able to lactate. Growth Hormone INTRODUCTION Pituitary growth hormone (PGH), expressed by the somatotroph cells of the anterior pituitary, has two main isoforms: 22K-GH and 20K-GH. The 22K-GH isoform is the main circulatory isoform in normal men, nonpregnant women, and in patients with acromegaly ( 3 ). In the nonpregnant state the hypothalamus secretes growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH) which stimulates the production of growth hormone from the pituitary in a pulsatile fashion. PGH subsequently stimulates insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) release from the liver which is required for metabolism and growth promoting effects. Somatostatin inhibits growth hormone, providing negative feedback and there is also inhibition of PGH production by IGF-1 which prevents the somatotrophs from releasing PGH and encourages the release of somatostatin from the hypothalamus. When too much PGH is secreted by a pituitary adenoma acromegaly is diagnosed. This is confirmed by an elevated age- and sex- corrected serum IGF-1 and failure of PGH to suppress to <0.4ug/L following an oral glucose tolerance test in the presence of a pituitary mass on MRI. Estrogen blocks the effects of PGH on the liver, which explains why in order to achieve equivalent levels of IGF-1 women need to secrete higher levels of PGH than men ( 3 ). During normal pregnancy the rise in estrogen generates a PGH resistant state and, as such, there is an initial drop in IGF-1 levels. As the placenta grows it begins to secrete placental growth hormone (PLGH), a single chain protein that is structurally very similar to the PGH isoform 22K-GH ( 7 ). PLGH is initially secreted at 10 weeks (
