Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


secrete placental growth hormone (PLGH), a single chain protein that is structurally very similar to the PGH isoform 22K-GH ( 7 ). PLGH is initially secreted at 10 weeks ( 48 ) eventually overcoming the resistance to growth hormone and resulting in an increase in IGF-1 levels. Eventually, PGH becomes suppressed as a consequence of negative feedback such that by the last week of pregnancy PLGH and IGF-1 levels peak whilst PGH is almost undetectable ( 49 ). DIAGNOSIS OF ACROMEGALY DURING PREGNANCY The similarities in the structure of PGH and PLGH present challenges for the diagnosis of acromegaly and monitoring of biochemical control in pregnant women with pre-existing acromegaly. Both GH peptides are composed of a single polypeptide chain with 2 disulfide bridges and 191 amino-acids. Conventional assays for GH cannot usually distinguish between the two, and therefore the confident diagnosis of acromegaly is usually reserved until after delivery. Where a diagnosis during pregnancy is desired, there are a number of factors that may be considered. The pulsatile nature of PGH may help to establish a true increase in PGH as opposed to PLGH, if pulsatility can be demonstrated. Response to hypoglycemia is enhanced in PGH but decreased in PLGH, and response to arginine is enhanced in PGH and varies in PLGH ( 7 ). A high serum IGF-1 concentration prior to midgestation may also be suggestive of acromegaly as levels are not expected to rise until after this stage of pregnancy. Highly specific assays may also be used to demonstrate raised PGH during the third trimester if raised above the expected 1ug/L, which is expected at that stage of normal pregnancy ( 3 ). If a new diagnosis of acromegaly is suspected, imaging of the pituitary with MRI may be warranted ( 50 ). FERTILITY IN WOMEN WITH ACROMEGALY It is reported that between 40-84% of acromegalic women suffer with gonadal dysfunction the causes of which are multifactorial ( 51 - 55 ). Mass effect of the adenoma on the gonadotrophic cells may cause gonadotrophin deficiency. In addition, compression of the stalk may reduce levels of GnRH and contribute towards an increase in PRL levels ( 55 ). PRL secretion may also be increased in cases of a mixed GH and PRL-secreting tumor. Other contributory features include the effect of GH and IGF-1 on the ovaries (inhibition of GnRH and direct ovarian inhibition) and polycystic ovarian syndrome (
