Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


mixed GH and PRL-secreting tumor. Other contributory features include the effect of GH and IGF-1 on the ovaries (inhibition of GnRH and direct ovarian inhibition) and polycystic ovarian syndrome ( 54 , 55 ). EFFECT OF PREGNANCY ON ACROMEGALY In a recent review of 46 women with acromegaly in pregnancy, 39 received surgical treatment prior to conception, and 21 who were receiving medical treatment and drugs were continued on therapy if the risk of treatment interruption was considered to outweigh the risk of continuation ( 56 ). In this and other similar reviews ( 57 - 59 ), this is considered to “reflect the overall improvement in both diagnosis and treatment of patients with acromegaly in the last decades” ( 3 ). The adenomatous somatotrophic cells themselves appear to be resistant to the IGF-1 inhibitory feedback demonstrated in pregnancy, as demonstrated by continuous PGH production during pregnancy (using specific placental assays) ( 3 , 55 ). Despite this, biochemical escape is often witnessed with IGF-1 levels often remaining unchanged or decreasing during pregnancy ( 60 ). This is thought to be secondary to reduced IGF-1 generation in the context of hepatic resistance to GH action in a high-estrogen environment ( 61 ). However, the degree of hepatic resistance varies from patient to patient, and this most likely explains the variability in clinical course often encountered ( 59 , 62 , 63 ). As might be expected, it is not uncommon for IGF-1 levels to increase rapidly post-delivery (or following termination of pregnancy), and thus vigilance must be exhibited by the clinician at this stage. A multicenter study carried out by Caron et al. in 2010 retrospectively studied 59 pregnancies in 46 women with GH-secreting pituitary adenomas. In 3 out of 27 cases in whom adenoma volume was assessed by MRI 6 months post-delivery, there was an increase in size (11.1%), and two affected women had visual complications. Adenoma volume was stable in 22 women (81.5%) and decreased in two cases (7.4%) ( 56 ). A number of subsequent published reports have mirrored these figures, demonstrating that the risk of tumor expansion is small ( 58 , 59 , 64 ). In a retrospective analysis of 31 pregnancies in 20 patients with acromegaly, Jallad et a l. observed symptomatic pituitary tumor enlargement and subsequent surgical intervention in 3 of 31 (9.6%) pregnancies. It is worth noting, however, that in these cases
