Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


with acromegaly, Jallad et a l. observed symptomatic pituitary tumor enlargement and subsequent surgical intervention in 3 of 31 (9.6%) pregnancies. It is worth noting, however, that in these cases the patients had visual field impairment at the initiation of pregnancy ( 61 ). In a recent series of 17 pregnancies in 12 women with acromegaly no patients developed new visual field abnormalities or symptoms suggestive of tumor expansion ( 60 ). In a systematic review including 273 pregnancies in 211 women with acromegaly 9% of women experienced tumor growth ( 65 ). EFFECT OF ACROMEGALY ON THE NEONATE The presence of elevated PGH levels is not thought to effect the neonate as there is currently no evidence that PGH crosses the placenta or influences placental development ( 55 ). Considering the increased risk of the mother developing worsening diabetes or hypertension or gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) or hypertension, it is important to consider the risk of macrosomia and microsomia respectively ( 3 , 65 ). METABOLIC AND CARDIOVASCULAR COMPLICATIONS Jallad et al . described the diabetogenic effects of PLGH and PGH which include hyperinsulinemia, decreased insulin-stimulated glucose uptake and glycogen synthesis, and impairment of the ability of insulin to suppress hepatic gluconeogenesis ( 61 ). As a consequence, acromegalic women are at higher risk of developing GDM or suffering worsening control of pre-existing diabetes mellitus ( 65 ). The risk of developing GDM in women with acromegaly appears to be in the region of 5.5%-10% ( 4 , 55 ). This figure is slightly higher than the rate of gestational diabetes in the general UK population, which is reported as 5% ( 66 ). The risk of gestational hypertension is also approximately 14% ( 7 , 61 ). In a retrospective study, this was associated with poor GH/IGF-1 control prior to pregnancy ( 56 ). MANAGEMENT APPROACH In patients diagnosed prior to pregnancy with microadenomas or intrasellar macroadenomas, transsphenoidal surgery is the most frequent surgical approach and the majority will achieve remission. For those with residual disease repeat surgery can be considered. In cases of persistent residual disease, either a somatostatin analogue, dopamine agonist, or pegvisomant may be used. For those with parasellar disease, debulking surgery +/- introduction of medical management should be considered. It is pertinent for patients taking either a long-acting somatostatin analogue or pegvisomant to aim to stop treatment two months prior to attempting to conceive;
