Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


medical management should be considered. It is pertinent for patients taking either a long-acting somatostatin analogue or pegvisomant to aim to stop treatment two months prior to attempting to conceive; short-acting octreotide can be used until conception ( 67 ). The advantages and disadvantages of stopping the medication should be discussed with the patient and the ultimate decision be made on a case-by-case basis. In addition, assessment of disease activity, comorbidities, and fertility status should be undertaken in the pre-pregnancy period to facilitate informed decision making ( 34 ). For those patients diagnosed in pregnancy, a more conservative approach is advised with introduction of medical management in those patients who require tumor or headache control. When no improvement is seen with medication, transsphenoidal surgery should be considered ( Figure 2 ). Routine measurements of serum concentrations of GH and IGF-1 or routine MRI are not recommended during pregnancy ( 67 ). Figure 2. Schematic for the Management of Acromegaly During Pregnancy. MEDICAL THERAPY Somatostatin Analogues Due to a historic lack of data, awareness that they can cross the placenta and identification of somatostatin receptors in the placenta and fetal pituitary, somatostatin analogues are typically stopped two months prior to conception. However, due to the long-acting nature of these drugs and the need for some women to continue therapy throughout part of the entirety of gestation, data are starting to accumulate. In a recent study by Vialon et al. 67 pregnancies in 62 women treated with somatostatin analogues during pregnancy were compared with 74 pregnancies in 65 women not treated medically ( 68 ). This study included 36 pregnancies in which a somatostatin analogue was taken in the first trimester of pregnancy. Rates of malformation were not reported above the background population and no significant impact on maternal and fetal outcomes were identified. While the paucity of data continues to support withdrawal of this group of medications prior to pregnancy in the majority these data provide reassurance for women who may conceive on these drugs, may require treatment throughout pregnancy, or reintroduction during pregnancy. Dopamine Agonists The considerations regarding the safety use of cabergoline in women with prolactinomas discussed above also apply to those with acromegaly. Growth Hormone Receptor Antagonists Pegvisomant, a GH receptor antagonist, has only been used in a handful of cases and as such its safety in pregnancy has not been established. Published reports include a woman who
