Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


a GH receptor antagonist, has only been used in a handful of cases and as such its safety in pregnancy has not been established. Published reports include a woman who had undergone in vitro fertilization and intra-cytoplasmic sperm injection following monotherapy with pegvisomant. The drug was discontinued after conception and a healthy neonate was born at 38 weeks by elective cesarean section and remained well at 1 year ( 69 ). Another woman treated with pegvisomant throughout gestation gave birth to a healthy girl at 40 weeks by cesarean section after failure to progress following spontaneous labor. In this case there was minimal demonstration of movement of pegvisomant across the placenta, and no evidence of substantial secretion into the breast milk ( 70 ). A 2015 review of current safety data compiled in the Pfizer Global Safety Database included 27 women exposed to pegvisomant, 3 of whom continued treatment throughout pregnancy. In this report there was no evidence to suggest adverse outcomes, but it was acknowledged that numbers remain too small to provide clear evidence ( 71 ). In a more recent series of four pregnancies in three women with pegvisomant used prior to or at the time of conception no significant maternal or fetal complications were reported ( 72 ). TSH-Secreting Adenomas There are only a small number of cases reported of women with TSH-secreting adenomas, four diagnosed prior to pregnancy and two after pregnancy (summarized in Table 2 ). All cases had positive outcomes with a variety of treatment strategies applied. In 1996 Caron et al described a case in which a 31-year-old previously infertile woman was being treated with good biochemical and radiological responses with continuous subcutaneous infusion of octreotide for a TSH-secreting macroadenoma. She was found to be pregnant after four months of treatment, and the octreotide was consequently stopped. During the pregnancy TSH concentrations increased and there was symptomatic and radiological evidence of tumor expansion. Octreotide was restarted with rapid improvement in clinical signs and biochemical markers. Immunoreactive octreotide was detected in the umbilical cord but demonstrated rapidly decreasing concentrations and was undetectable at 40 days. This demonstrated evidence of maternal-fetal transfer of octreotide. Notably, despite this the usual physiological changes in neonatal thyroid parameters were not disturbed ( 73 ). In 2002 Blackhust et al described the first documented twin pregnancy in a 21-year-old patient with a TSH-secreting adenoma who had been treated with
