Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


were not disturbed ( 73 ). In 2002 Blackhust et al described the first documented twin pregnancy in a 21-year-old patient with a TSH-secreting adenoma who had been treated with propylthiouracil to control thyrotoxicosis and cabergoline for hyperprolactinemia. She subsequently underwent transsphenoidal surgery due to resistant thyrotoxicosis, followed by long-acting octreotide and postoperative radiotherapy. This patient reported that she was pregnant during the course of radiotherapy and at this stage a decision was made to continue both the octreotide, complete the course of radiotherapy (although it is not documented for how many weeks the radiotherapy was continued it is likely to have been <9 weeks), and substitute cabergoline for bromocriptine ( 74 ). In 2003 Chaiamnuay et al . described at 39-year-old woman who was treated with propylthiouracil and bromocriptine; on confirmation of pregnancy (after 5 months of treatment) the dose of propylthiouracil was reduced and the bromocriptine was continued. At 27 weeks she developed clinical and radiological signs of tumor expansion and transsphenoidal surgery was performed with subsequent normalization of TSH and prolactin ( 75 ). There are two cases described in the literature where the mother was diagnosed during pregnancy: both declined surgery and were medically managed. Both women had uneventful pregnancies and delivered healthy babies ( 76 , 77 ). Perdomo et al described a 21-year-old woman who initially underwent transsphenoidal surgery and was subsequently started on octreotide when she relapsed 17 months postoperatively. The octreotide was stopped when she was found to be pregnant ( 78 ). Each pregnancy was uneventful with no congenital abnormalities reported. Although the number of cases is small, previous positive outcomes give some reassurance that pregnancy should not be entirely contraindicated in women with TSH-secreting adenomas. Treatment options include medical management with bromocriptine or octreotide, conservative medical control of thyrotoxicosis using propylthiouracil or carbimazole, or surgical management using the transsphenoidal approach. Emphasis lies on the importance of individualized treatment with the support of the multidisciplinary team. As with all pituitary tumors in pregnancy, close follow-up is paramount with monitoring of visual fields for evidence of tumor expansion. Table 2. Summary of Pregnancies in Women with TSH Adenomas View in own window Tumor Diagnosis Prior TS Previous medical therapy TS in pregnancy Medical therapy in pregnancy Delivery TSH-secreting macroadenoma ( 73 ) Prior to pregnancy No Oct-CSI (300ug/day) No Oct-CSI (300ug/day) -1 st month and 3 rd trimester ECS TSH-secreting macroadenoma with
