Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


gestational hypertension or preterm labor in women with NFPA. However, they did have higher rates of operative delivery and induction of labor compared to women without pituitary tumors, a finding that was not reported in women with macroprolactinomas ( 45 ). In a recent Turkish study 30 women with NFPA were retrospectively analyzed across 92 pregnancies; 7 had macroadenomas and 23 microadenomas ( 81 ). Spontaneous pregnancy rates were high. A higher incidence of visual disturbance was seen in the macroadenoma group (2/14 pregnancies) but there were no reports of apoplexy or ophthalmoplegia. NFPAs were not associated with increased rates of pregnancy complications including gestational diabetes, pregnancy-related hypertension/ pre-eclampsia, or caesarean birth. Gonadotrophin-secreting adenomas in pregnancy are extremely rare, and there are only three cases reported in the literature. The first reports a 29-year-old woman with a microadenoma and ovarian hyperstimulation. She was treated with bromocriptine with subsequent normalization of ovarian size and went onto conceive naturally ( 82 ). The second case also had ovarian hyperstimulation secondary to a gonadotrophin-secreting macroadenoma. This patient underwent surgical removal of the tumor with consequent normalization of FSH, LH, and estradiol and natural conception ( 83 ). Both of these women delivered healthy newborns. The third presented with infertility, during work-up she was found to have an isolated elevated LH and MRI revealed an enlarged sella turcica and intrasellar mass following which she underwent transsphenoidal resection. Menses were restored within 16 days post operation and the patient reported being pregnant three months later. She was still under follow-up at the time of the case report, hence, pregnancy outcomes were not reported ( 84 ). Pituitary Apoplexy Pituitary apoplexy is a rare clinical syndrome characterized by headache, visual disturbance, and altered mental status. It is caused by rapid expansion of the contents of the sella turcica as a consequence of hemorrhage or infarction into a pre-existing pituitary adenoma or within a physiologically enlarged gland. Pituitary apoplexy in pregnancy is extremely rare but may present as a medical emergency (due to risk of hormonal insufficiency) and may represent the first presentation of an underlying adenoma. It is therefore pertinent to consider apoplexy as a differential diagnosis for sudden onset headache and/or visual disturbance in pregnancy. In a recent review of the clinical and biochemical characteristics of male and female patients presenting with pituitary apoplexy, it was found to be the first presentation of pituitary disease
