Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


In a recent review of the clinical and biochemical characteristics of male and female patients presenting with pituitary apoplexy, it was found to be the first presentation of pituitary disease in 38/52 (73%) of patients. One quarter of the women (7/27) in this review experienced apoplexy in the peripartum period ( 85 ). It is thought that rapid expansion of a pituitary adenoma during pregnancy secondary to increased estradiol may be one explanation for the predisposition to apoplexy in the peripartum period ( 85 ). In a recent review of pituitary apoplexy in pregnancy and the postpartum period 44 women with pituitary apoplexy in pregnancy and 6 after delivery were described. Most patients were primigravid and in the second or third trimester of pregnancy ( 86 ). The most common presenting symptoms in these patients are headache (95%) and visual disturbance (63%), comparable to the literature for non-pregnant patients ( 85 , 87 - 91 ). Hormonal replacement is required in approximately 60% of women with apoplexy in pregnancy making it important that pituitary hormone profiles are checked ( 87 ). The acute management of apoplexy includes fluid and electrolyte replacement as well as corticosteroid replacement where indicated. The treatment given to the women in the literature ranges from conservative management, the use of dopamine agonists (bromocriptine and cabergoline), as well as surgical intervention. Women have also undergone varying modes of delivery, approximately 64% by vaginal delivery and approximately 36% by caesarean section, demonstrating the importance of an individualized management plan ( 87 , 89 - 91 ). Reassuringly, in the pregnancies described in the literature to date, if apoplexy is promptly diagnosed and managed, there appears to have not been any negative consequences for the fetus. Sheehan’s Syndrome Sheehan’s syndrome occurs as a consequence of ischemic pituitary necrosis secondary to severe postpartum hemorrhage with hypotension and shock ( 92 ). Possible mechanisms include vasospasm, thrombosis, and vascular compression of the hypophyseal arteries. Enlargement of the gland, disseminated intravascular coagulation, and autoimmunity have also been implicated in the pathophysiology of the condition ( 93 ). The majority of patients have an empty sella on CT or MRI ( 92 ). Advances in obstetric care and the availability of rapid transfusion has resulted in a significant decline in the incidence of Sheehan’s syndrome in the Western world ( 93 ). Although rare, Sheehan’s syndrome may present as a medical emergency, and
