Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


has resulted in a significant decline in the incidence of Sheehan’s syndrome in the Western world ( 93 ). Although rare, Sheehan’s syndrome may present as a medical emergency, and suspicion should be raised in women that are hypotensive, tachycardic, hypoglycemic, vomiting, or elicit signs of diabetes insipidus despite adequate resuscitation following post-partum hemorrhage ( 92 , 93 ). It is thought that the degree of ischemia and necrosis dictates the clinical course, and thus in patients with lesser degrees of ischemia the syndrome may present in a more insidious manner. Such patients may present with failure to lactate, persistent amenorrhea, light-headedness or fatigue, genital and axillary hair loss, dry skin, cold intolerance, and other symptoms of hypopituitarism. In such patients diagnosis may be delayed for over 10 years post-partum ( 94 ). In some women only partial hypopituitarism is experienced, and they may therefore go onto have further spontaneous pregnancies. For those women in whom an acute form of Sheehan’s syndrome is suspected, investigations should include serum electrolytes, cortisol, prolactin and free thyroid hormones, and possibly ACTH. Thyroxine has a half-life of seven days and so may be normal in the initial period, prolactin levels are usually low, as are ACTH and cortisol levels. Fluid replacement and stress doses of corticosteroids should then be given without delay and additional pituitary testing and subsequent therapy should be delayed until after recovery. Hypopituitarism The causes of hypopituitarism are vast and include neoplasms, vascular events (pituitary apoplexy, Sheehan’s syndrome, intrasellar carotid artery or subarachnoid hemorrhage), trauma, medications, infiltrative/inflammatory disease, and treatment of sellar/parasellar and hypothalamic disease such as surgery or radiotherapy. The disorder is characterized by the deficiency of one or more of the hormones secreted by the pituitary gland. In those patients with gonadotrophin deficiency, fertility is often impaired making natural conception rare. Advances in fertility treatment, however, have led to increased pregnancy rates usually with the support of a reproductive endocrinologist. In such cases and with appropriate hormone replacement women can undergo uneventful pregnancies. An increased demand for thyroid hormones is observed during pregnancy. This is thought to be explained by increased plasma volume and thus volume of distribution, fetal dependence on maternal thyroid hormones, increased human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) levels (which acts as a weak TSH agonist), increased levels of total binding globulin, and increased thyroid hormone degradation. In patients recognized to have hypopituitarism, an appropriate rise in TSH
