Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


levels (which acts as a weak TSH agonist), increased levels of total binding globulin, and increased thyroid hormone degradation. In patients recognized to have hypopituitarism, an appropriate rise in TSH may not be achieved and so it is recommended that clinicians monitor serum free T4 or total T4 levels every 4-6 weeks so that doses of thyroxine can be adjusted as required to maintain free T4 in the normal range for pregnancy. An increase in glucocorticoid dose throughout gestation is not routinely recommended but rather monitoring of clinical symptoms of signs to assess for signs of glucocorticoid deficiency. Additional supplementation is, however, recommended during the active stage of labor and delivery. Current Endocrine Society guidelines suggest 50mg intravenous hydrocortisone during the second stage of labor and 100mg every 6-8 hours during caesarean section ( 95 ). The NICE guideline on the management of medical disorders in labor recommends slightly less glucocorticoid replacement in those planning a vaginal birth (50mg 6-hourly). For those having a caesarean section, this guideline suggests individualized glucocorticoid replacement strategies that will depend upon whether the woman has received hydrocortisone in labor, i.e. 50mg intravenous hydrocortisone when starting anesthesia if she has and 100mg hydrocortisone if she has not. Hydrocortisone replacement (50mg 6-hourly) is then recommended until 6 hours after birth ( 96 ). Mineralocorticoid replacement is not required in these patients. Hydrocortisone is non-fluorinated glucocorticoid and therefore a good preparation to use for physiological glucocorticoid replacement in pregnancy because it is degraded by the placental enzyme 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-2 and thus limited quantities of the drug cross the placental barrier ( 97 ). Prednisolone is also a non-fluorinated glucocorticoid and therefore has limited passage across the placenta ( 98 ). Dexamethasone, however, is a fluorinated glucocorticoid and thus poorly metabolized by this enzyme, hence >50% will cross the placental barrier ( 99 ). Steroids with low transplacental transfer are favored to reduce the risk of neonatal adrenal suppression and neurocognitive/neurosensory disorders in childhood which have been associated with the fluorinated preparations ( 100 ). Growth hormone is not currently approved for use during conception or pregnancy, and thus the current European Guidelines recommend its discontinuation during pregnancy ( 95 ). However, there is ongoing debate as to whether women with GH deficiency may benefit from such treatment. In an observational study of 201 pregnancies of patients with GH deficiency and hypopituitarism, two thirds of the women underwent
