Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


whether women with GH deficiency may benefit from such treatment. In an observational study of 201 pregnancies of patients with GH deficiency and hypopituitarism, two thirds of the women underwent fertility treatment to achieve pregnancy; 7% stopped GH replacement prior to pregnancy, 40% once the pregnancy was confirmed, and 25% at the end of the second trimester, while 28% continued the treatment throughout pregnancy. A healthy child was delivered in 80% of cases and there was no relationship between the complications and the treatment patterns ( 101 ). In a recent study reporting outcomes of 47 women with GH deficiency exposed to growth hormone between conception and delivery no new safety signals relating to GH were identified ( 102 ). Lymphocytic Hypohysitis Lymphocytic Hypohysitis (LH) is characterized by infiltration of the pituitary by lymphocytes and plasma cells which cause destruction of the normal parenchyma ( 103 ). The disorder is thought to have an autoimmune basis and is commonly associated with pregnancy or the post-partum period. Most patients present in the last month of pregnancy or within the first 2 weeks post-partum ( 103 ). Plausible explanations for the association between LH and pregnancy include, firstly, a change in the pattern of blood flow from predominantly systemic as opposed to portal circulation and thus increased exposure to the immune system. Secondly, the theory that there are common autoantibodies to both the pituitary and placenta which may be implicated, although it should be noted that conflicting results and poor specificity impair the clinical usefulness of checking anti-pituitary antibodies for diagnostic purposes in the clinical setting ( 104 , 105 ). Patients may present with symptoms of mass effects, hypopituitarism, hyperprolactinemia, or diabetes insipidus ( 103 ). LH may be mistaken for Sheehan’s syndrome in the postpartum period, and absence of obstetric hemorrhage can be a useful distinguishing feature. A clinical diagnosis can often be made, particularly where there is a temporal relationship with pregnancy, and can be supported by typical appearances on MRI including symmetrical enlargement of the gland, a thickened but rarely displaced stalk, intact sellar floor, and pre-contrast homogeneity of the mass ( 103 ). Hypopituitarism disproportionate to the size of the lesion, preferential impairment of ACTH secretion and the presence of anti-pituitary autoantibodies are also supporting findings ( 104 ). Management is usually symptomatic including hormone replacement and focus on reducing the size of the mass. Due to
