Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


the presence of anti-pituitary autoantibodies are also supporting findings ( 104 ). Management is usually symptomatic including hormone replacement and focus on reducing the size of the mass. Due to the risks involved, surgical intervention is reserved for those patients with significant compressive symptoms. Glucocorticoids are favored by some to reduce inflammation, and in some cases their use has led to recovery of pituitary function ( 104 ). Other treatment options include azathioprine when pregnant and methotrexate or radiotherapy in non-pregnant individuals. Posterior Pituitary Gland Physiology The serum osmolality threshold at which arginine vasopressin (AVP) is secreted is reduced in pregnancy by approximately 5-10 mOsm/kg (dropping from 285 to 275 mOsm/kg). Consequently, pregnant women experience thirst and release AVP at lower plasma osmolarities than non-pregnant women ( 106 , 107 ). These changes are thought to be related to increased levels of human chorionic gonadotrophin ( 107 ). The placenta also plays an important role in water homeostasis during pregnancy; vasopressinase, a trophoblast-derived aminopeptidase, is an enzyme produced by the placenta which inactivates endogenous vasopressin ( 108 ). Maximum concentrations of vasopressinase are reached in the third trimester, correlate with placental weight, and are higher in multi-fetal pregnancies ( 109 ). A compensatory increase in AVP synthesis and secretion is therefore observed ( 110 ). The effect of AVP has been demonstrated to be mediated by one or more of a family of water channels called aquaporins (AQPs). Their discovery has facilitated our understanding of the modes of transport across the renal tubules and collecting ducts ( 111 ). Each member of the AQP family has a different sensitivity to AVP. Abnormalities in the AQP2 channel have been implicated in the pathophysiology of nephrogenic DI. An increase in the expression of AQP2 in the renal medulla of pregnant rats has recently been demonstrated ( 112 ). A progressive increase in plasma oxytocin levels is observed during uncomplicated pregnancy. Levels rise dramatically during labor peaking in the second stage ( 113 , 114 ). A positive feedback loop is executed, oxytocin secretion being stimulated by uterine contraction and the oxytocin then simulating further contractions ( 113 ). Uterine sensitivity to oxytocin increases with a rise in oxytocin receptors in the myometrium. Hypophysectomy does not alter onset of labor, indicating that oxytocin provides only a facilitatory role ( 114 ). Levels increase further during suckling ( 115 ). Diabetes Insipidus (DI) DI
