Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


Hypophysectomy does not alter onset of labor, indicating that oxytocin provides only a facilitatory role ( 114 ). Levels increase further during suckling ( 115 ). Diabetes Insipidus (DI) DI is thought to complicate up to 1 in 30,000 pregnancies and presents with polyuria, polydipsia, and dehydration ( 116 ). The presentation may involve exacerbation of previously overt or subclinical cranial or nephrogenic DI (as a consequence of increased clearance of AVP by placental cystine aminopeptidase, lower osmostat for vasopressin release, and elevation of vasopressinase levels) or may develop de novo in pregnancy. When investigating pregnant women for diabetes insipidus (DI) one must be aware that sodium levels may be lower than expected ( 117 ). Traditional water deprivation testing (requiring 5% weight loss) should be considered on a case-by-case basis due to the risk of hypernatremia, neurological disorders, and fetal harm ( 118 ). Providing there is close medical surveillance, a water deprivation test can be performed on women with mild symptoms. It is also reasonable to use a trial of treatment with desmopressin (DDAVP) to establish whether this can correct urinary concentrating ability. During pregnancy, DI tends to be broadly categorized into 3 main subtypes; central DI, nephrogenic DI, and transient DI of pregnancy. CENTRAL DI Patients with central DI fail to release AVP from their posterior pituitary. This may occur spontaneously in pregnancy or in the postpartum period secondary to Sheehan’s syndrome, an enlarging pituitary adenoma, pituitary apoplexy, lymphocytic hypophysitis, or with the development of other conditions such as Langerhans cell histiocytosis ( 112 , 118 ). The most common causes of central DI are listed in Table 3 . In a series of 55 cases of central DI described by Takeda et al. there were 19 tumoral lesions; 14 cases of Sheehan’s syndrome; 10 of pituitary apoplexy; and 12 of lymphocytic hypophysitis, infundibuloneurohypophysitis and stalkitis ( 105 ). The use of chlorpropamide (a sulfonylurea) for the treatment of partial central DI is not advised as it may cross the placental barrier and cause hypoglycemia in the fetus. The AVP analogue desmopressin (DDAVP) is the first-line treatment for DI in pregnancy as it is resistant to vasopressinase ( 118 ). To date, its use has been demonstrated to be safe for both mother and fetus ( 106 , 108 , 119 ). For women initiated on DDAVP prior to pregnancy it can, therefore, be continued. It should
