Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


to be safe for both mother and fetus ( 106 , 108 , 119 ). For women initiated on DDAVP prior to pregnancy it can, therefore, be continued. It should be noted that some women require higher doses during pregnancy and that in such circumstance the dose should be titrated back to pre-pregnancy dose soon after delivery. DDAVP transfers minimally into breast milk and is poorly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract, and thus should not adversely affect the infant’s water metabolism ( 117 ). Table 3. Causes of Central Diabetes Insipidus View in own window Primary Idiopathic - Genetic Wolfram syndrome (diabetes insipidus, diabetes mellitus, optic atrophy and deafness Neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus Developmental Syndromes Septic-optic dysplasia Secondary/ Acquired Trauma Head injury Post-surgery Post radiotherapy Vascular Carotid aneurysm Cavernous sinus thrombosis Tumor Craniopharyngioma Germinoma Metastases Pituitary adenomas Inflammatory Sarcoidosis Langerhans cell histiocytosis Meningitis/ Encephalitis Infundibuloneurohypophysitis Guillain-Barre Syndrome Lymphocytic hypohysitis Infection Tuberculosis Fungal diseases Post-Partum Sheehan’s syndrome Pituitary apoplexy NEPHROGENIC DI Nephrogenic DI is caused by resistance to antidiuretic hormone and water restriction is the first line treatment ( 120 ). The risks of using medical therapy must be carefully considered. Thiazide diuretics are not routinely recommended in pregnancy due to the risk of electrolyte imbalance, jaundice, and thrombocytopenia in the neonate. There is also a risk of reducing plasma volume which may pose a challenge in situations where utero-placental insufficiency arises, for example, in pre-eclampsia ( 112 ), however, they can be used if the maternal and fetal benefits are thought to outweigh the risks. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs should not be used in the third trimester of pregnancy ( 112 ). TRANSIENT DI OF PREGNANCY Transient DI of pregnancy (also called gestational DI) is rare, occurring in between two to four in 100,000 pregnancies ( 116 ). It most commonly develops at the end of the second or third trimester and is caused by excessive placental vasopressinase activity. It is more common in multi-fetal pregnancies because vasopressinase activity is proportional to placental weight. It may also occur in cases of placental abruption which can result in elevated vasopressinase levels ( 121 , 122 ). Vasopressinase is metabolized in the liver and thus higher concentrations of the enzyme are observed in women with hepatic dysfunction. Both transient liver disease (acute fatty liver of pregnancy, hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelets (HELLP) syndrome and preeclampsia) and chronic liver diseases may result in
