Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


with hepatic dysfunction. Both transient liver disease (acute fatty liver of pregnancy, hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelets (HELLP) syndrome and preeclampsia) and chronic liver diseases may result in increased circulating vasopressin. It is therefore important to check for liver dysfunction in women with a new diagnosis of DI during pregnancy ( 123 ). In a series of 50 patients described by Takeda et al of pregnancy-associated DI due to liver pathologies just over half (n=27) developed DI during pregnancy associated with pre-existing liver or coincidental diseases; 15 developed DI associated with acute fatty liver of pregnancy and 8 with HELLP syndrome( 105 ). DDAVP is the treatment of choice. In patients with idiopathic or central DI, oxytocin levels are normal and labor may begin spontaneously ( 124 ). The oxytocinergic pathways, however, may be affected in DI which occurs secondary to trauma, infiltrative disease or neoplasm, and this may result in poor progression of labor and uterine atony. Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuretic Hormone (SIADH) SIADH is rare in pregnancy. In a series of 18 cases of hyponatremia in pregnancy, seven fit the criteria for SIADH ( 125 ). SIADH has been reported in a small number of cases with pre-eclampsia but the mechanism remains unclear ( 126 ). ADRENAL DISORDERS IN PREGNANCY The maternal hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis undergoes significant changes in pregnancy. A rise in cortisol is observed partly due to estrogen-stimulated elevation corticosteroid-binding globulin, and also because the placenta releases corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) during the second and third trimester which stimulates both the maternal pituitary and adrenal glands ( 127 , 128 ). A positive feedback mechanism is then initiated as maternal cortisol stimulates placental CRH synthesis leading to a further increase in cortisol levels ( 129 ). The diurnal secretion is maintained during pregnancy despite these changes. The fetus is protected from excess glucocorticoid exposure by the action of placental 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (HSD11B2) which inactivates 80-90% of cortisol into cortisone ( 128 ). The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) also undergoes changes in pregnancy. Renin levels rise early in pregnancy as a consequence of extrarenal release from the ovaries and maternal decidua ( 130 ). In addition, estrogen simulates angiotensinogen synthesis in the liver resulting in increased levels of angiotensin II ( 131 ). Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) levels decline in pregnancy ( 132 ). Aldosterone levels rise up to 10-fold by term ( 133 ). Despite these
