Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


levels of angiotensin II ( 131 ). Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) levels decline in pregnancy ( 132 ). Aldosterone levels rise up to 10-fold by term ( 133 ). Despite these changes, blood pressure is often decreased for most of pregnancy, returning to baseline by delivery. This is thought to be the result of reduced responsiveness to angiotensin II in the pregnant state ( 132 , 134 ). Other theories include increased progesterone and prostacyclin concentrations during pregnancy which may decrease angiotensin II sensitivity, and the monomeric state of the angiotensin receptor (AT 1 ) in pregnancy which renders it less active ( 135 , 136 ). Cushing’s Syndrome During Pregnancy Cushing’s syndrome (CS) during pregnancy is rare, with fewer than 200 cases reported in the literature ( 137 ). However, it is associated with high maternal and fetal morbidity and so an understanding of its management is important. Fertility is generally reduced in women with CS as a result of suppression of gonadotrophin secretion ( 138 ). This is one explanation for the fact that adrenal adenomas are more commonly found to be the cause of CS in pregnancy than in non-pregnant women (40-60% vs 10-15% of cases, respectively), although a more favored theory is that adrenal adenomas associated with Cushing’s syndrome may express the LH receptor which then responds to pregnancy-induced hCG secretion. In pregnancy Cushing’s Disease (CD) accounts for 15-40% of cases in comparison to non-pregnant patients where the figure is closer to 70% ( 139 ). Adrenal carcinomas and ectopic ACTH secretion are rare causes of CS in pregnancy, accounting for less than 10% of cases ( 139 ). INVESTIGATIONS Clinical diagnosis is more challenging in pregnancy because some of the signs of hypercortisolism overlap with clinical signs observed in a normal pregnancy. These include central weight gain, fatigue, emotional lability, glucose intolerance, hypertension, and edema. Useful differentiating features may include muscular weakness, purple striae, and osteoporosis, i.e. the more catabolic features of Cushing’s syndrome ( 138 ). Laboratory investigations of CS are also altered in pregnancy. Serum and urinary cortisol concentrations are frequently high in normal pregnancies and the cortisol may fail to suppress during an overnight dexamethasone suppression test ( 140 ). Urinary free cortisol can only be relied upon to distinguish between CS and normal pregnancy if it is more than three times the upper range of normal, particularly in the second and third
