Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


can only be relied upon to distinguish between CS and normal pregnancy if it is more than three times the upper range of normal, particularly in the second and third trimesters ( 141 , 142 ). In contrast to a normal pregnancy, however, the circadian rhythm is lost in CS and this can be useful when confirming a diagnosis. Changes in salivary cortisol during pregnancy are less marked and nighttime salivary cortisol has been proposed as a potential diagnostic tool. Trimester-specific ranges have been defined with high sensitivity and specificity ( 143 ). However, this test is currently not widely available. Placental secretion of ACTH and CRH may prevent the expected suppression of ACTH in women with adrenal CS, adding to the diagnostic challenge ( 140 ). High-dose dexamethasone suppression tests, CRH testing, desmopressin testing, and petrosal vein sampling have not been performed in sufficient numbers during pregnancy to be able to draw firm conclusions regarding their reliability ( 137 ). CRH has been used in a small number of cases of pregnant women with no ill effects. However, in late gestation it has the potential risk of inducing premature labor as CRH has been demonstrated to enhance the contractile response of the myometrium to oxytocin in the pregnant woman, and has been implicated as a contributory factor in the process of parturition ( 140 , 144 , 145 ). There are a small number of cases in whom inferior petrosal sinus corticotropin sampling has been performed with CRH stimulation ( 140 , 145 ). One must balance the risk of possible thrombotic events and radiation when considering such sampling. Radiological imaging may be required following initial investigations. When an adrenal cause is suspected, ultrasound may be sufficient, particularly in cases of adrenal carcinoma ( 146 , 147 ). Computed Tomography (CT) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) appear to be equally sensitive. However, MRI is the investigation of choice due to its superior safety profile ( 146 ). Expert bodies do not advocate the use of contrast MRI as the effects on the fetus are currently unknown. Investigation of suspected pituitary CS requires an appreciation of the normal anatomical changes of the pituitary in pregnancy (discussed at the beginning of the chapter) in order to avoid false-positive findings. Enlargement of the normal pituitary makes the assessment of microadenomas particularly difficult ( 147 ). Similar to adrenal imaging, the modality of
