Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


the chapter) in order to avoid false-positive findings. Enlargement of the normal pituitary makes the assessment of microadenomas particularly difficult ( 147 ). Similar to adrenal imaging, the modality of choice is non-contrast MRI. COMPLICATIONS Untreated CS (in particular) may pose a risk to both mother and fetus. Maternal complications include hypertension (68%), diabetes mellitus or glucose intolerance (25%), preeclampsia (14%), osteoporosis and fractures (5%), cardiac failure (3%), psychiatric disorders (4%), wound infection (2%) and maternal death (2%) ( 140 ). Complications for the newborn include preterm delivery (43% of pregnancies), intrauterine growth restriction (21%), stillbirth (6%), spontaneous abortion or intrauterine death (5%), and hypoadrenalism (2%) ( 140 ). TREATMENT A review of 136 cases of CD in pregnancy demonstrated a 13% increase in the frequency of live birth rate in patients who underwent active treatment instituted prior to 20 weeks’ gestation and thus treatment is advocated during pregnancy ( 140 ). In another review the live birth rate was 15% higher and global fetal morbidity was reduced by 28% ( 148 ). Surgical intervention (pituitary or adrenal) may be performed during pregnancy, ideally during the second trimester due to lower rates of maternal and fetal complications ( 140 , 145 , 149 - 151 ). Medical therapy is also an option. Metyrapone, a steroidogenesis inhibitor, is the most frequently reported option ( 138 ). It has been demonstrated to provide good control of the hypercortisolism, although there are reports of adrenal insufficiency, worsened systemic hypertension and risk of preeclampsia due to deoxycorticosterone accumulation ( 140 , 152 - 155 ). Ketoconazole, another steroidogenesis inhibitor, while also effective in controlling hypercortisolism, is avoided because of its potential teratogenicity and increased abortion rate in animal studies ( 154 , 156 - 159 ). Cyproheptadine, a nonselective 5-hydroxytryptamine, is not recommended due to lack of efficacy ( 140 , 160 ). In a review of four children exposed to mitotane, an adrenal steroidogenesis blocker, during fetal life no clear teratogenic effects were observed; however, the concentrations measured were sub-therapeutic and long-term data do not exist ( 161 ). Furthermore, the number of cases was very small. In a previous report it was demonstrated to be teratogenic and thus remains contraindicated ( 162 ). Aminoglutethimide, another adrenal steroidogenesis blocker previously in use is also contraindicated as it may cause fetal masculinization ( 163 ). There are no reported cases using Pasireotide, a somatostatin
