Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


). Aminoglutethimide, another adrenal steroidogenesis blocker previously in use is also contraindicated as it may cause fetal masculinization ( 163 ). There are no reported cases using Pasireotide, a somatostatin analogue, during pregnancy. There are only two reported cases of cabergoline being used for the treatment of CD in pregnancy. The first in a woman who conceived one year after the therapy was initiated and was maintained on high-dose cabergoline throughout gestation undergoing an uneventful pregnancy and delivering a heathy baby ( 164 ). The other, being treated for the management of recurrent CD during pregnancy and again a healthy infant was born, on this occasion by caesarean section at term ( 165 ). Adrenal Insufficiency Adrenal insufficiency (AI) is relatively rare in pregnancy with an estimated incidence of 1:3000 ( 166 ). In cases of primary AI, direct destruction of the adrenal gland occurs and both deficiency in glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids is observed. In developed countries autoimmune adrenalitis is the most common cause of primary AI which may occur in isolation or as part of an autoimmune polyglandular syndrome (APS). In a retrospective multicenter cohort study including 23 maternity units in the UK and Ireland 79 women with primary AI who had 101 pregnancies were studied. Most (64.1%) had autoimmune disease, 10.3% prior adrenal infarction/surgery/hemorrhage, 2.6% congenital adrenal hyperplasia, and the remaining were unclassified( 167 ). APS type 2 constitutes the most common form and presents as a combination of Addison’s disease, thyroid autoimmune disease, type 1 diabetes, and/or premature ovarian failure ( 168 ). This association between primary AI and the other autoimmune disease goes some way towards explaining the reduced fertility rates observed in these women ( 169 ). Fertility rates are also reduced in women with AI and no coexisting autoimmune disorders. This has been attributed to lack of libido and the reduced sense of well-being associated with androgen depletion ( 168 ). In low income countries, tuberculosis is the most common cause of primary AI ( 170 ). Secondary AI occurs is most commonly caused by prolonged exogenous suppression of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis as a result of administration of glucocorticoids to treat pre-existing conditions such as asthma. It can also be caused by decreased stimulation of ACTH as a consequence of pituitary or hypothalamic tumors and their associated treatments, resulting in atrophy of the adrenal cortex. Pregnancy-related causes of secondary AI include Sheehan’s syndrome and
