Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


of ACTH as a consequence of pituitary or hypothalamic tumors and their associated treatments, resulting in atrophy of the adrenal cortex. Pregnancy-related causes of secondary AI include Sheehan’s syndrome and lymphocytic hypohysitis. In such women decline in other pituitary hormones is frequently observed ( 171 , 172 ). Regardless of the cause of the AI, with appropriate hormonal substitution and, if necessary, artificial ovulation techniques, affected women are able to undergo pregnancy. Although considered high risk these women can still achieve favorable outcomes ( 166 , 173 ). Only a few cases of AI detected during pregnancy have been reported in the literature [40–43], and in this relatively small proportion of women with AI the diagnosis may be challenging as many of the symptoms mimic those of normal pregnancy ( 168 ). Common symptoms include weakness, light-headedness, syncope, fatigue, nausea and vomiting, hyponatremia, and increased pigmentation. One must therefore be vigilant for the possibility of a diagnosis of AI, particularly in those with excessive fatigue, weight loss, hypoglycemia, and vomiting, or in those craving salt in order to establish a timely diagnosis. Similarly, one should consider AI in those patients with persistent unexplained orthostasis or hypotension particularly following acute illness or obstetric hemorrhage. Features which may heighten clinical suspicion include hyperpigmentation on the mucous membranes, extensor surfaces, and non-exposed areas, hyponatremia, and a personal or family history of autoimmune diseases. AI may present with an adrenal crisis during pregnancy. Scenarios where this may occur include hyperemesis gravidarum-associated AI in early pregnancy, or presentation secondary to infection at any stage of gestation ( 166 , 174 ). Some women may present in the postpartum period as transplacental transfer of cortisol from the fetus to the mother can conceal AI until the postpartum period when it is unveiled ( 175 ). COMPLICATIONS Pregnancies in which AI is untreated may be complicated both for the mother and neonate. Intrauterine growth restriction, low birth weight, fetal distress, oligohydramnios, and intrauterine death have all been described. Most adverse pregnancy outcomes occur in women in whom the AI was either untreated or undiagnosed ( 175 - 179 ). The fetus receives glucocorticoids from the placenta and thus maternal AI tends not to interfere with fetal development ( 139 ). In addition, maternal adrenal antibodies, although capable of crossing the placental barrier, are not thought to be transferred in sufficient quantities to cause fetal/neonatal insufficiency ( 180
