Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


( 139 ). In addition, maternal adrenal antibodies, although capable of crossing the placental barrier, are not thought to be transferred in sufficient quantities to cause fetal/neonatal insufficiency ( 180 ). INVESTIGATIONS Interpretation of the investigations to confirm AI present a challenge during pregnancy. Laboratory findings may include hyponatremia, hypoglycemia, eosinophilia, and lymphocytosis. Hyperkalemia may not be present in pregnancy due to gestational effects on the RAAS system (described above). Both serum cortisol and ACTH are increased during pregnancy making them unreliable markers. However, where clinical suspicion is high a low morning cortisol <5 ug/dL (181 nmol/L) in the setting of typical symptoms may be enough to confirm a diagnosis. If this finding is accompanied by a raised ACTH (>2-fold the upper limit of the reference range) a diagnosis of primary AI may be made ( 181 ). If both serum cortisol and ACTH are low the patient has secondary AI. The gold standard investigation, and that advocated in the Endocrine Society guidelines, is the cosyntropin stimulation test, also called the short Synacthen test ( 182 ). Higher diagnostic cortisol cut-offs are recommended, i.e. 25 ug/dL (700 nmol/L), 29 ug/dL (800 nmol/L) and 32 ug/dL (900 nmol/L) for the first, second and third trimesters respectively ( 183 ). Some investigators have proposed the use of the 1 ug cosyntropin test as it is more physiological and may be of value in diagnosing secondary adrenal insufficiency. However, it remains controversial as to whether it improves sensitivity and is cumbersome to use ( 184 - 186 ). The overnight single-dose metyrapone test may be used to assess adrenal responsiveness but is not recommended in pregnancy as it may precipitate a crisis ( 170 , 187 ). When used with 750mg every 4 hours for 6 doses in pregnancy 75% of normal pregnant subjects showed a diminished response whereas 25% had a normal response and thus the test did not appear to be valid in pregnancy ( 188 ). Cortisol and ACTH responses to CRH are blunted in normal pregnancy ( 159 ). As such, the CRH stimulation test is unhelpful in differentiating secondary and tertiary AI in pregnancy. The insulin tolerance test is not used in pregnancy due to the risk of the effect of hypoglycemia on the fetus. Adrenal antibodies remain helpful in pregnancy and, if positive, should prompt consideration of other autoimmune endocrine deficiencies which may co-exist. In cases where
