Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


the effect of hypoglycemia on the fetus. Adrenal antibodies remain helpful in pregnancy and, if positive, should prompt consideration of other autoimmune endocrine deficiencies which may co-exist. In cases where radiological imaging is required MRI without gadolinium is the recommended option ( 147 ). MANAGEMENT Despite the normal increase in plasma cortisol during pregnancy, an increase in maternal replacement doses of glucocorticoids are not routinely advised. Rather, with the primary aim of avoiding either under or over replacement it is currently recommended that patients are monitored clinically (at least once per trimester) and dose adjustments be made on an individualized basis if required ( 182 ). Glucocorticoid preparations that may be used in pregnancy include hydrocortisone, cortisone acetate, prednisolone, or prednisone ( 182 ). These glucocorticoids are safe and suppression of neonatal adrenal function is not reported when used for replacement ( 189 ). Hydrocortisone is recommended as the glucocorticoid substitution of choice due to its safety profile ( 170 ). Dexamethasone is not recommended because it is not inactivated by placental 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 and therefore may cross the placenta; this is of concern as this may result in neurocognitive and neurosensory disorders in childhood ( 100 ). Higher doses are required during periods of stress such as hyperemesis gravidarum or infection. Additional supplementation is also recommended during the active stage of labor and delivery. Current Endocrine Society guidelines suggest 50mg intravenous hydrocortisone during the second stage of labor and 100mg every 6-8 hours during caesarean section ( 95 ). The NICE guideline on management of medical disorders in labor recommends slightly less glucocorticoid replacement in those planning a vaginal birth (50mg 6-hourly). For those having a caesarean section, this guideline suggests individualized glucocorticoid replacement strategies that will depend upon whether the woman has received hydrocortisone in labor, i.e. 50mg intravenous hydrocortisone when starting anesthesia if she has and 100mg hydrocortisone if she has not. Hydrocortisone replacement (50mg 6-hourly) is then recommended until 6 hours after birth ( 96 ). The hydrocortisone dose can then be rapidly tapered down following delivery. Physiological doses are safe while breastfeeding as only very minimal quantities are transferred into the milk ( 190 ). Progesterone exerts an anti-mineralocorticoid effect, and as a result mineralocorticoid requirement may increase in the third trimester. Serum sodium and potassium and evidence of orthostatic hypotension may be used for monitoring, but plasma renin is not useful as
