Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


result mineralocorticoid requirement may increase in the third trimester. Serum sodium and potassium and evidence of orthostatic hypotension may be used for monitoring, but plasma renin is not useful as it increases in pregnancy. If the patient develops hypertension or hypokalemia the dose of the mineralocorticoid should be reduced and if pre-eclampsia occurs it must be stopped ( 191 ). Adrenal crisis may occur secondary to infection, hyperemesis gravidarum, or during the stress of labor. In such cases the priorities of treatment include fluid replacement and parenteral administration of glucocorticoid replacement ( 168 ). Women should be advised to wear a medic-alert bracelet, or equivalent, and to carry a “steroid card”. In a UK and Ireland study of 79 women with primary AI who had 101 pregnancies only 40 carried steroid emergency cards and only 9/19 who had an adrenal crisis; multidisciplinary teams should seek to raise awareness of these cards and their potential benefits ( 167 ). Patient and partner/family education plays a key role in the management of adrenal insufficiency both in and outside of pregnancy. Education should include the basic principles of glucocorticoid replacements, sick day rules, vigilance for symptoms suggestive of glucocorticoid deficiency, and how to self-administer intra-muscular preparations when required. If diagnosed prior to pregnancy this should be included as part of the pre-conception counselling. Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) encompasses a group of inherited autosomal recessive (AR) disorders that arise from defective steroidogenesis and result from a deficiency of one or more of the enzymes required for cortisol biosynthesis ( 192 ). The most common form of CAH is 21-hydroxylase (CYP21 gene) deficiency, which accounts for 90% of cases ( 193 ). CAH due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency can be classified as either classical or non-classical CAH. In classic, severe 21-hydroxylase deficiency females are exposed to excess androgens prenatally and are born with virialized external genitalia ( 193 ). Other associations include inadequate vaginal introitus, premature adrenarche, advanced somatic development, central precocious puberty, menstrual irregularity, and possibly salt wasting. Women with the non-classical form present with pubertal and post pubertal hirsutism and menstrual irregularity. Fertility is reduced in these women ( 194 ). In women with 21-hydroxylase deficiency a number of rationales for this exist, including the role of progesterone in regulating GnRH, the impact of elevated androgen concentrations on the GnRH/LH pulse generator and on the ovaries (suppressing later stages of follicular
