Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


this exist, including the role of progesterone in regulating GnRH, the impact of elevated androgen concentrations on the GnRH/LH pulse generator and on the ovaries (suppressing later stages of follicular development and compromising ovulation) ( 195 ). Additionally, an unfavorable anatomical structure may play a role, sometimes complicated by reconstruction surgery. Psychosexual factors may also play a role with reduced sexual desire or orientation reported in some women ( 195 , 196 ). However, pregnancy is possible in women with CAH ( 197 ), and may occur spontaneously once good hormonal control has been achieved with optimized glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid regimens ( 192 ). Fetal risk depends on the carrier status of the father and thus CYP21 genotyping should be performed ( 198 ). If the father is a carrier the female fetus is at risk of virilization in cases of classic 21-hyrdoxylase deficiency in the absence of adequate adrenal androgen suppression. In this context, some advocate the use of prenatal dexamethasone which, if used to suppress ACTH and reduce androgen excess, may block the virilization of external genitalia in female fetuses. However, this is an area of ongoing debate as in order to be effective the treatment must be implemented in early pregnancy (prior to the stage of pregnancy when clinicians were previously able to establish fetal sex) thus risking unnecessary exposure in some pregnancies ( 199 ). However, the use of newer tests to establish early prenatal diagnosis is an area which will be of great value. Current options include establishing the sex of the fetus using sex determining region Y (SRY) gene testing as early as four weeks of gestation ( 200 ). Trophoblast retrieval and isolation from the cervix has also been recently proven to non-invasively and correctly identify male fetal DNA in fetuses at risk of CAH as early as five weeks gestation ( 192 , 201 ). Alternative options include measurement of cell-free fetal DNA in maternal plasma as early as six weeks, or alternatively chorionic villi sampling at 14 weeks gestation (but this would be associated with a more prolonged period of exposure to glucocorticoids) ( 202 , 203 ). In pregnancies in which the fetus is thought to be at risk of having CAH and prenatal treatment is desired to reduce androgen excess, dexamethasone is the treatment of choice. Dexamethasone, unlike hydrocortisone, is not inactivated by the placental 11-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2
