Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


having CAH and prenatal treatment is desired to reduce androgen excess, dexamethasone is the treatment of choice. Dexamethasone, unlike hydrocortisone, is not inactivated by the placental 11-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 and thus may cross the placenta. The aim of this treatment is to reduce virilization, the need for reconstructive surgery, and the emotional distress associated with ambiguous genitalia. However, it does not negate the need for lifelong hormonal replacement ( 204 ). The current recommended dose of dexamethasone is 20ug/kg maternal body weight (preconception weight) per day, divided into 2-3 daily doses without exceeding 1.5mg/day ( 202 , 205 ). This is ideally initiated before seven weeks’ gestation and should be maintained for the entire pregnancy if there is a female fetus ( 192 ). Lower doses may, however, be used when poorly tolerated by the mother ( 200 , 206 ). Maternal plasma or urinary estriol reflect adrenal synthesis and are monitored to assess efficiency. Therapy must be discontinued as soon as possible if a male or unaffected fetus is identified. Glucocorticoids will need to be increased to cover the stress of labor and delivery. In cases where the fetus is not expected to be affected, hydrocortisone is the maternal glucocorticoid replacement of choice to avoid unnecessary transplacental passage to the fetus. Primary Hyperaldosteronism During Pregnancy The physiological changes observed in the renin angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS) make the diagnosis of primary hyperaldosteronism (PA) in pregnancy difficult. Thus, despite hypertensive disorders affecting 6-8% of all pregnant women and PA being assumed to account for 10% of all hypertensive disorders, the number of cases reported in the literature is small ( 207 ). In a review of 32 pregnancies in women diagnosed with PA during pregnancy, 81% were diagnosed with hypertension during the pregnancy and 19% had been previously diagnosed with hypertension but not screened for PA ( 208 ). Of these cases, hypertension was controlled in 19% (two on diuretics), Hypertension was uncontrolled despite medical treatment in 32% of cases and 16% of cases required adrenalectomy during the pregnancy: 23% developed preeclampsia, 61% had induced labor, and the prevalence of caesarean section was 44% ( 208 ). The physiological elevation of plasma aldosterone observed in healthy pregnant women is similar to the elevation observed in those with PA, and thus plasma aldosterone levels are not useful for diagnosis in pregnancy. Plasma renin, however, is usually elevated in normal pregnancy,
