Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


similar to the elevation observed in those with PA, and thus plasma aldosterone levels are not useful for diagnosis in pregnancy. Plasma renin, however, is usually elevated in normal pregnancy, whereas in women with PA it is often found to be suppressed during pregnancy this making an aldosterone-to-renin ratio a more useful test ( 207 , 209 , 210 ). Confirmatory tests such as the saline infusion test or captopril tests are not recommended during pregnancy due to the risk of volume expansion or teratogenicity respectively ( 207 , 211 ). MRI is the first line imaging modality during pregnancy. Further subtyping including adrenal vein sampling is not recommended until after the pregnancy ( 139 , 210 ). The optimal management for PA in pregnancy is unclear due to the condition being rare. Medical management has historically been advocated provided that hypertension and hypokalemia can be adequately managed. However, laparoscopic adrenalectomy during the second trimester has been suggested where an adrenal adenoma can be demonstrated ( 207 , 210 , 212 ). Spironolactone, a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (MRA), crosses the placenta, and may have anti-androgenic effects on the male fetus, particularly in the first trimester (the most sensitive period for sex differentiation) ( 213 ). Eplerenone, a selective MRA, to date, has not been demonstrated to cause teratogenic effects and is therefore favored in pregnancy ( 214 , 215 ). Amiloride has also been demonstrated to be effective and safe in a small number of cases ( 209 , 216 , 217 ). Women with primary aldosteronism in pregnancy have higher rates of stillbirth and preterm labor than controls with uncomplicated pregnancy ( 217 ). Glucocorticosteroid-remediable aldosteronism (GRA), is a rare hereditary form of primary hyperaldosteronism that is characterized by severe hypertension, hypokalemia, volume expansion, and suppressed plasma renin activity ( 218 ). It is a monogenic form of inherited hypertension caused by a chimeric gene originating from an unequal cross-over between the 11β-hydroxylase (CYP11B1) and aldosterone synthase (CYP11 B2) gene ( 219 ). In a review of 35 pregnancies in 16 women with GRA there was no increased risk of preeclampsia observed: however, in women with chronic hypertension 39% experienced pregnancy-induced hypertension. In such women with pregnancy-induced hypertension the birth weight of the infants was lower than in those women without. The cesarean section rate was approximately double that seen in the general population ( 218 ). Pheochromocytoma and
