Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


birth weight of the infants was lower than in those women without. The cesarean section rate was approximately double that seen in the general population ( 218 ). Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma in Pregnancy Pheochromocytomas and paraganglioma collectively known as PPGL are catecholamine-secreting neuroendocrine tumors which are rare in pregnancy ( 220 ). Early recognition of these tumors is important as they are associated with high rates of maternal and fetal complications if undiagnosed. Untreated, the estimated maternal and fetal mortality is estimated at approximately 40-50% ( 221 ) whereas when treated maternal and fetal mortality can be reduced to less than 5% and 15%, respectively ( 222 ). In a multi-center retrospective study Bancos et al. identified 232 patients with a total of 249 pregnancies in women with PPGL; 78% had a single PPGL (pheochromocytoma in 142 and paraganglioma in 41); 13% had multiple primary PPGL and 9% had metastatic PPGL( 223 ). Symptoms related to episodic catecholamine excess reflect those outside of pregnancy and include paroxysmal headaches, sweating, palpitations, dyspnea, dizziness, and most commonly paroxysmal or sustained hypertension ( 224 ). In patients presenting with hypertension, a rare diagnosis such as a PPGL may be missed, as other causes of hypertension (pregnancy-induced hypertension or preeclampsia) are much more common. It is therefore important to be able to distinguish between the different causes. Pregnancy-induced hypertension characteristically presents after 20 weeks’ gestation and pre-eclampsia typically in the last trimester ( 221 , 225 ). In addition, hypertension associated with pre-eclampsia tends to be consistent throughout whereas when associated with pheochromocytoma there is a tendency towards both paroxysmal and postural changes. The proteinuria and edema associated with pre-eclampsia is not in keeping with a diagnosis of PPGL ( 226 ). In some patients, symptoms may be vague and extremely periodic, in which case initial suspicion may only arise when an enlarging uterus causes compression of the neoplasm or during the stress of labor, anesthesia, or surgery. Where a diagnosis is made during such periods of stress and where the diagnosis remains unrecognized, maternal complications such as severe hypertension, hemorrhage into the neoplasm, hemodynamic collapse, myocardial infarction, cardiac arrhythmia, heart failure, or cerebral hemorrhage may occur contributing to the high mortality rate ( 221 , 227 ). Paraganglioma are often located at the organ of Zuckerkandl, at the bifurcation of the aorta, a region where compression may occur in the context of an
