Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


succinate dehydrogenase subunit gene mutations ( 221 , 222 , 235 - 239 ). Malignant pheochromocytoma has only been very rarely reported in the literature during pregnancy ( 240 - 242 ). Fetal complications can occur as a consequence of the vasoconstrictive effect of the maternal catecholamines on the uteroplacental circulation which may lead to spontaneous abortion, fetal growth restriction, preterm delivery, fetal distress, and stillbirth ( 217 , 243 ). Minimal placental transfer of the catecholamines is observed, and this is likely due to high placental concentrations of catechol-O-methyltransferase and monoamine oxidase ( 243 - 245 ). The management of patients with pheochromocytoma and paraganglioma relies on α-adrenergic receptor blockade prior to surgical removal of the tumor. In pregnancy it is important to maintain adequate uteroplacental circulation which is entirely under the influence of maternal blood pressure. Therefore, a balance must be achieved between reducing excess catecholamines and avoiding severe hypotension ( 234 ). The most commonly used α-adrenergic receptor blockers include phenoxybenzamine, doxazosin, and prazosin. Phenoxybenzamine is favored due to its long acting, stable, non-competitive blockade and has been used in a number of pregnant women with pheochromocytoma with good outcomes ( 246 ). It does, however, cross the placental barrier and neonatal hypotension and respiratory distress have been reported in babies whose mothers were treated with phenoxybenzamine; thus, careful monitoring is required with the involvement of neonatologists at the time of delivery ( 247 ). Maternal tachycardia may occur with phenoxybenzamine, and in such cases prazosin or doxazosin may have a role as they produce less tachycardia ( 221 ). Prazosin has been used in the management of hypertension in pregnancy ( 248 ) but should be used with caution as, when compared to nifedipine for control of severe hypertension in pregnancy, a greater number of intrauterine deaths occurred in the prazosin group ( 249 ). Doxazosin has also been used with good outcomes ( 250 ). Beta-adrenoceptor blockers may be added if tachyarrhythmia occurs but must only be administered following α-blockade. Beta-blockers have been associated with fetal bradycardia and intrauterine growth restriction when used in high doses, but clearly the advantages in women with pheochromocytoma should be weighed against the relatively uncommon fetal risks ( 251 , 252 ). Labetalol is a combined alpha and beta blocker but is not recommended as the α-blockade is relatively weak, and thus paroxysmal hypertension may occur. Methyldopa is also
