Pituitary and Adrenal Disorders of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, women, pituitary, endocrinol, adrenal, patients, treatment, management, cases, syndrome, levels, clin, free, clin endocrinol


, 252 ). Labetalol is a combined alpha and beta blocker but is not recommended as the α-blockade is relatively weak, and thus paroxysmal hypertension may occur. Methyldopa is also not recommended as it has been suggested that it might worsen hypertension ( 234 ). In case of a hypertensive emergency, phentolamine is advised due to its prompt onset of action. Drugs that should be avoided in women with pheochromocytoma include corticosteroids, opioids, pethidine, metoclopramide and certain anesthetic drugs such as thiopental, ketamine, ephedrine and mivacurium, as they may induce crisis by promoting the release of catecholamines ( 234 ). Adequate α-adrenergic blockade +/- the addition of beta-blockade is the first priority in managing women with pheochromocytoma, but surgery is the definitive treatment. The optimal timing of surgery remains a topic of debate and depends on gestational age, the success of medical management, and the location of the tumor. In patients in whom the diagnosis is made within the first 24 weeks and adequate α-adrenergic blockade has been achieved, the current recommendation is that the tumor be removed in the second trimester. In patients with pheochromocytoma identified in the third trimester and/or in whom medical management is adequate it is often advised to delay surgery until following delivery ( 221 , 253 ). Where possible, a laparoscopic approach is now preferred ( 234 , 238 ). Historically, a vaginal delivery was avoided in women with pheochromocytoma due to concerns about a catecholamine surge during labor and delivery. However, this theoretical risk should be mitigated with adequate α-adrenergic blockade. Several vaginal deliveries with good outcomes have now been reported in the literature, with careful consideration of medical management during the labor and good analgesia with avoidance of medications which may trigger a crisis ( 221 , 254 - 256 ). Ideally an individualized, patient-centered, and multidisciplinary approach is required to decide the best mode of delivery for the individual patient. SUMMARY In summary, the management of both pituitary and adrenal diseases in pregnancy relies on a good understanding of the physiological changes during gestation. Increasing evidence is becoming available regarding the drugs that are available for management of these conditions, giving more confidence to those managing affected pregnant women and providing additional information to share with patients. As with other medical problems encountered in pregnancy, it is important to provide women with evidence-based pre-conception counselling to enable informed shared decision making.
