Case report
KEYWORDS: case, patient, tuberculosis, perforation, intestinal, treatment, day, abdominal, miliary, report, bowel, abdomen, bmj, patients, small


Case report Intestinal perforation due to miliary tuberculosis in a patient with myasthenia gravis Ahmed Ashraf Morgan,1 Adil Mahmood,1 Georgina K Russell,2 Onn Min Kon1 1Respiratory Medicine, Imperial SUMMARY and malodorous urine. On presentation, he was feverish, tachycardic and confused and was treated for presumed Healthcare NHS Trust, London, urinary sepsis. A chest radiograph showed increased UK opacification in the left upper lobe with calcification. CT imaging and bronchoalveolar lavage demonstrated Correspondence to Dr Ahmed Ashraf Morgan; miliary tuberculosis infection. His background included ahmed. morgan@ nhs.n et myasthenia gravis, which led to challenges in selecting appropriate antituberculosis treatment. During his stay, Accepted 12 July 2022 he developed sudden- onset abdominal pain due to intestinal perforation. He subsequently deteriorated and underwent multiple interventions, including a Hartmann’s Figure 1 Axial maximum intensity projection (MIP) procedure and ileocaecal resection. Histological image of an unenhanced CT thorax. This more clearly examination of his sigmoid colon revealed abundant demonstrates the innumerable tiny/miliary pulmonary acid-f ast bacilli. Unfortunately, the patient died due to nodules. multiorgan failure in the context of several complications. This case highlights intestinal perforation as a rare complication of miliary tuberculosis and emphasises the importance of being vigilant for this potential urine over the last month but denied any shortness complication. of breath or cough. He was born in Vietnam and had been living independently in the UK. On examination, he was feverish, tachycardic with a heart rate of 104/min and confused. His BACKGROUND blood pressure was 123/70 mm Hg. General exam- Tuberculosis (TB) is an ongoing global public health ination demonstrated bilateral ptosis with weakness problem that affected around 10 million people in all limbs concordant with MG, and on ausculta- worldwide in 2019.1 Of all infectious diseases, it tion of his chest, there were few scattered crackles is a foremost and ongoing cause of death, costing with normal heart sounds. An initial impression of an estimated 1.4 million lives in the aforementioned urinary sepsis on a background of MG was made. year.1 In the UK, there was an incidence of 8.4 per A chest radiograph identified increased opacifica- 100 000 in 2019.2 As per the WHO standards, the tion in the left upper lobe with areas of calcification. UK is classed as a low incidence country.1 2 On further exploration, the patient revealed that We report a case of miliary TB complicated by his mother had TB when he was a
