Case report
KEYWORDS: case, patient, tuberculosis, perforation, intestinal, treatment, day, abdominal, miliary, report, bowel, abdomen, bmj, patients, small


as a low incidence country.1 2 On further exploration, the patient revealed that We report a case of miliary TB complicated by his mother had TB when he was a child and that he intestinal perforation and a background of myas- had not received any treatment or prophylaxis for thenia gravis (MG), which necessitated medical, this. Further investigations confirmed miliary TB surgical and pharmaceutical collaboration. The and treatment was commenced. A few days later, he case highlights the wide range of complications that was noted to have fresh blood mixed with his stool can arise from TB and the importance of multidis- and subsequent abdominal pain, which complicated ciplinary teamwork in optimising patient care. It his inpatient admission. also demonstrates the complexity of managing TB in patients with comorbidities that can influence INVESTIGATIONS treatment decisions. In choosing the anti- TB drug During his prolonged stay, the patient underwent regimen, consideration had to be made for MG and numerous investigations. Following initial chest the impact each agent would have on the disease, radiographic findings, high-r esolution CT scan of with a fine balance between exacerbation of MG © BMJ Publishing Group the thorax demonstrated multiple soft tissue densi- Limited 2022. No commercial and adequate treatment of TB. ties in the left upper lobe and widespread uniform re- use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ. pulmonary nodules across all lobes, consistent with CASE PRESENTATION miliary TB (figure 1). Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) To cite: Morgan AA, A man in his early 70s, with a previous medical fluid was sent for the Xpert MTB/RIF assay and Mahmood A, Russell GK, history of MG (treated with prednisolone and was positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) et al. BMJ Case Rep 2022;15:e249547. pyridostigmine), osteoporosis and gout, presented complex DNA and was rifampicin resistance nega- doi:- to hospital with a fall. He reported increased tive. BAL culture revealed scanty acid-f ast bacilli 249547 fatigue, occasional dysphagia and foul-s melling (AFB) and was positive for MTB after 13 days, Morgan AA, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2022;15:e249547. doi: 1 Case report Figure 3 Histology slides from sigmoid resection. (A) Partially healed granulomas and chronic inflammation with lymphocytes and histiocytes in area of ulceration. (B) A discrete epithelioid granuloma in adjacent large bowel. (C) Close up of granuloma with giant cells. (D) Ziehl- Neelsen stain showing acid- fast bacilli. anastomotic breakdown and leakage of enteric contents through a dehisced
