Case report
KEYWORDS: case, patient, tuberculosis, perforation, intestinal, treatment, day, abdominal, miliary, report, bowel, abdomen, bmj, patients, small


in adjacent large bowel. (C) Close up of granuloma with giant cells. (D) Ziehl- Neelsen stain showing acid- fast bacilli. anastomotic breakdown and leakage of enteric contents through a dehisced midline laparotomy wound. Intestinal samples were taken for histology from two lapa- rotomies. The first identified sigmoid ulceration and healing granulomatous inflammation as well as abundant AFB within the infiltrate (figure 3). An ileocaecal sample from the second laparotomy identified ischaemic ulceration and perforation of small bowel with lymph nodes replaced by hyalinising fibrosis and focal necrosis. A Ziehl-N eelsen stain showed scanty AFB. Figure 2 CT abdomen and pelvis showing perforation. (A) Axial image of a contrast- enhanced CT of the abdomen. This has been windowed to better appreciate the anti- dependent free extraluminal gas (red arrow). DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS (B) Negative image of the same slice demonstrates the thin bowel wall On initial presentation, it was thought that the patient had (red arrow) with extraluminal gas (blue star). sepsis secondary to a urinary tract infection. Following the left upper lobe infiltrate identified on chest radiograph and the high- resolution CT thorax findings, another possible diagnosis was miliary metastases with a primary upper lobe lung cancer. which was susceptible to all first- line medications. Cerebrospinal However, the uniform millet-s ized nodules without a clear bron- fluid (CSF) was negative for MTB complex DNA and a viral chial mass directed us closer to miliary TB and BAL fluid culture screen was also negative. MRI of the brain was performed due to initial patient confusion and this was discussed at the radiology given stable observations and renal function. multidisciplinary meeting. It displayed no evidence of TB menin- gitis and no leptomeningeal enhancement. Blood testing revealed TREATMENT that he was HIV negative, ruling this out as a potential cause of On admission, he was initially treated with broad-s pectrum anti- immunosuppression. biotics for urinary sepsis. However, the management strategy After a reported episode of acute abdominal pain, CT scan rapidly adapted to the investigation findings and clinical progres- of the abdomen and pelvis identified free gas in the abdomen sion of the patient. (figure 2). Initial laparotomy was performed, which showed Four days after admission, he was commenced on empiric sigmoid perforation. Later on, repeat CT scan of the abdomen treatment for TB: rifampicin 600 mg/day, isoniazid 300 mg/day, and pelvis demonstrated diffuse mural oedema and hypoen- pyrazinamide 2 g/day and moxifloxacin 400
