Case report
KEYWORDS: case, patient, tuberculosis, perforation, intestinal, treatment, day, abdominal, miliary, report, bowel, abdomen, bmj, patients, small


on, repeat CT scan of the abdomen treatment for TB: rifampicin 600 mg/day, isoniazid 300 mg/day, and pelvis demonstrated diffuse mural oedema and hypoen- pyrazinamide 2 g/day and moxifloxacin 400 mg/day. His long- hancement of a portion of proximal ileum, indicative of small term prednisolone dose (15 mg/day) was also increased due to bowel ischaemia. Repeat laparotomy was conducted, which his acute illness and rifampicin initiation. Moxifloxacin was soon showed dusky patches of jejunum and ascitic fluid. Following discontinued due to concerns regarding exacerbation of MG. this, a further CT scan of the thorax, abdomen and pelvis In view of the biochemical abnormalities detected on his CSF revealed signs of profound hypoperfusion complex with diffuse (high protein of 81 mg/dL, low glucose of 2.4 mmol/L) and high small bowel and colonic submucosal oedema. Another lapa- disease burden, the aim was to continue anti- TB treatment for rotomy was conducted, identifying a small bowel perforation 9–12 months. Ethambutol initiation was initially delayed due to near to the ileocaecal valve and multiple granulomatous patches patient drowsiness and confusion, with difficulty in completing over the small bowel. He proceeded to have a series of CT the necessary visual examination. However, due to worsening scans, with a final CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis showing liver function tests, standard triple therapy was stopped, and the 2 Morgan AA, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2022;15:e249547. doi: Case report patient was started on linezolid 600 mg/day and ethambutol 1 g/ tract, peritoneum or viscera. In particular, gastrointestinal day. Linezolid was used in place of amikacin in view of potential TB predisposes to a multitude of complications, including worsening of MG with aminoglycoside use. On improvement perforation, abscess and obstruction.4 5 In 2019, 5.8% of of his liver function, the regimen was transitioned to rifampicin new TB cases in the UK involved the gastrointestinal system 600 mg/day, isoniazid 300 mg/day, pyrazinamide 2 g/day, etham- and only 3.1% involved miliary TB.2 In our presented case, butol 1 g/day and linezolid 600 mg/day. the patient had miliary TB with intestinal involvement. The Another key aspect of treatment was surgical intervention. literature demonstrates that the most common sites of gastro- Five days into his stay, he reported an episode of sudden-o nset intestinal TB are the ileum and ileocaecal regions.5 6 Our abdominal pain. Imaging showed free gas within the abdomen, patient had small bowel perforation near the ileocaecal
