Case report
KEYWORDS: case, patient, tuberculosis, perforation, intestinal, treatment, day, abdominal, miliary, report, bowel, abdomen, bmj, patients, small


of sudden-o nset intestinal TB are the ileum and ileocaecal regions.5 6 Our abdominal pain. Imaging showed free gas within the abdomen, patient had small bowel perforation near the ileocaecal valve, and the surgical team carried out a laparotomy with Hartmann’s sigmoid perforation and multiple granulomatous lesions procedure for a sigmoid perforation and faecal peritonitis. Periop- over the small intestine that were nearing perforation. This erative management was complicated by his previous medical more disseminated picture likely reflects the haematogenous history of MG, which required close consultation between the element rather than contiguous infection. anaesthetic, neurology and pharmacy teams. Intravenous immu- The literature suggests that intestinal tuberculosis results noglobulin was not started but prednisolone was switched to in perforation in 6.6%7–13%8 of cases. Perforation in the hydrocortisone. The patient was admitted to the intensive care specific context of miliary TB is rarer, with few case reports unit (ICU) for postoperative management before being stepped and data suggesting it occurs in 0.1%9–1.9%10 of cases. Other down. Approximately 1 month following this, a diagnostic lapa- case reports of intestinal perforation secondary to TB report a rotomy was conducted due to concerns regarding increasing background of immunosuppression,11–13 which is concordant abdominal pain and ischaemic bowel on imaging. Dusky patches with our case. However, reports indicate that the mean age were identified over the jejunum, which improved with hot pack of patients with abdominal TB is around 30–40 years old,4 14 application. During this period, the patient was again managed in contrast to our patient who was in his early 70s. Mortality in the ICU. in patients with abdominal TB has been reported to range All TB treatment was held following the second laparotomy from 1.4% to 20%.4 This increases with perforation and it due to concerns regarding liver injury, severe thrombocytopenia is possible that the combination of factors such as age and and lactataemia. Isoniazid was first to be restarted in combina- immunosuppression contributed to the outcome in our case. tion with meropenem and co- amoxiclav, and on discussion with Furthermore, earlier disease identification and effective TB the neurology team, it was agreed that moxifloxacin and amik- treatment could improve prognosis.4 acin could be started in view of infection severity. The resulting Contributing to the difficulty in identifying and managing floxacin 400 mg/day and amikacin 15 mg/kg/day. It is a disease that can mimic the presentation of many other Less than 2 weeks
