Case report
KEYWORDS: case, patient, tuberculosis, perforation, intestinal, treatment, day, abdominal, miliary, report, bowel, abdomen, bmj, patients, small


to the difficulty in identifying and managing floxacin 400 mg/day and amikacin 15 mg/kg/day. It is a disease that can mimic the presentation of many other Less than 2 weeks following the second operation, the patient conditions. As with our case, the literature demonstrates that rioration and evidence of perforation. An ileocaecal and small bleeding has also been noted,11 as in this instance, although it bowel resection with terminal ileostomy-m ucus fistula was is rare. The clinical picture can range from an acute abdomen performed. Ten days postprocedure, an active bleed was iden- requiring emergent surgical intervention to the identification tified from a proximal branch of the superior mesenteric artery. of the disease as an incidental finding.11 The patient subsequently required insertion of an inferior vena There are various ways to establish a diagnosis of abdom- cava filter as well as arterial embolisation. inal TB although low sensitivities can make it difficult. Ascitic fluid and biopsy showing MTB via culture or nucleic acid amplification test can confirm the diagnosis.4 14 It has been OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP reported that the sensitivity of culture from intestinal biopsy Following the third laparotomy, there was anastomotic break- is 50%, with AFB sensitivity at 38%.15 Sensitivity was found down and dehiscence of the laparotomy wound. Unfortunately, to be significantly higher when culture was combined with the patient passed away 1 week after this—2 months after his granulomatous pathology. The method of obtaining a sample admission to hospital. This was attributed to multiorgan failure for histology depends on the patient11; in our case, a lapa- in the context of large and small bowel perforation. rotomy was the most appropriate given the acute nature of the situation. Additionally, we had obtained a positive BAL DISCUSSION fluid culture, which was later corroborated by the identifica- The identification of new TB can prove challenging, espe- tion of intestinal granulomas and AFB. cially in the elderly community. It has been found that those The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence aged ≥65 years face a greater delay in initiation of treat- recommends treating active TB with 2 months of isoni- ment following symptom onset compared with those who are azid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide and ethambutol. This is then younger.3 Older patients are more likely to present with atyp- followed by 4 months of isoniazid and rifampicin.16 Due to ical and non- specific symptoms such as dyspnoea and leth- the high
