Case report
KEYWORDS: case, patient, tuberculosis, perforation, intestinal, treatment, day, abdominal, miliary, report, bowel, abdomen, bmj, patients, small


patients are more likely to present with atyp- followed by 4 months of isoniazid and rifampicin.16 Due to ical and non- specific symptoms such as dyspnoea and leth- the high disease burden in our case, the initial goal was to argy, while the well- recognised features of TB such as night aim for prolonged treatment (9–12 months). There was a deli- sweats and haemoptysis are more often seen in those who are cate balance between the side effects of TB medication and younger. For this reason, it is important to keep TB in mind, inadequate treatment of the life- threatening infection. This particularly when radiological imaging is suggestive of infec- resulted in several medications being held intermittently and tion, there is a family or social history of TB or the patient is reintroduced as per the patient’s blood test results and clin- from a country with high prevalence of infection. ical status. An additional challenge was posed in the selec- There are numerous manifestations of TB, with extrapulmo- tion of treatment given the patient’s background history of nary TB found in 59.9% of UK cases in 2019.2 Abdominal TB MG, where much of the regimen with lower hepatotoxicity is one such manifestation and can involve the gastrointestinal is contraindicated. For example, moxifloxacin can cause a Morgan AA, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2022;15:e249547. doi: 3 Case report life- threatening exacerbation of MG.17 This required liaison Acknowledgements With thanks to Dr Samir Mahboobani (Cardiothoracic with the neurology team, and on discussion, the decision Radiology Consultant) for the images in ’figure 1’ and ’figure 2’. With thanks to Dr was made to prioritise treatment of TB at the risk of wors- Priscilla Anketell (Pathology Consultant) for the images in ’figure 3’. ening MG. Pharmacist involvement was also vital throughout Contributors The care of the patient and selection for the case report was led admission. All authors were also involved in writing of the report, with the initial optimal regimen was, and the treatment had to be adapted to draft written by AAM and revised by AM with further input and revision from GKR the evolving clinical picture. and OMK. Images were identified by GKR and OMK and supplied by the relevant The need for surgical intervention in certain patients with clinicians. abdominal TB is vital; for example, those presenting with Funding The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research
