Case report
KEYWORDS: case, patient, tuberculosis, perforation, intestinal, treatment, day, abdominal, miliary, report, bowel, abdomen, bmj, patients, small


need for surgical intervention in certain patients with clinicians. abdominal TB is vital; for example, those presenting with Funding The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any intestinal perforation.11 18 The choice of intervention and funding agency in the public, commercial or not- for- profit sectors. need for resection will depend on the extent of disease and Competing interests None declared. patient status. Preoperative management in this case posed Patient consent for publication Consent obtained from next of kin. a greater challenge due to the patient’s background of MG. Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. With each laparotomy, it was also made apparent that the risk of death had increased in light of the patient’s poor Case reports provide a valuable learning resource for the scientific community and can indicate areas of interest for future research. They should not be used in isolation clinical condition and comorbidities. Known complications to guide treatment choices or public health policy. of surgical intervention include anastomotic leak and dehis- cence,11 18 as unfortunately occurred in this case. Successive perforations led to multiple procedures, which resulted in a myriad of complications. REFERENCES Multiple teams were involved in the care of our patient. 1 Global tuberculosis programme. global tuberculosis report 2020. Geneva: World vascular surgeons, interventional radiologists, neurologists, 2 Public Health England. Tuberculosis in England: 2020 annual report. London: Public case demonstrates the importance of multidisciplinary team- 3 Abbara A, Collin SM, Kon OM, et al. Time to diagnosis of tuberculosis is work and highlights the difficulties, which may arise when greater in older patients: a retrospective cohort review. ERJ Open Res 2019;5. doi:. [Epub ahead of print: 04 11 2019]. treating patients with complex presentations. tuberculosis in southeastern Korea: 12 years of experience. BMC Infect Dis Patient’s perspective 2018;18:1–8. 5 Malikowski T, Mahmood M, Smyrk T, et al. Tuberculosis of the gastrointestinal tract Comments from the patient's brother: 'I really appreciate and associated viscera. J Clin Tuberc Other Mycobact Dis 2018;12:1–8. 6 Mukhopadhyay A, Dey R, Bhattacharya U. Abdominal tuberculosis with an acute everyone trying to help my brother. He was afraid of going abdomen: our clinical experience. J Clin Diagn Res 2014;8:NC07–9. and not having any visitors. It was difficult, especially in the intestinal perforations: a case series. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol 2012;24:594–9. beginning as he felt lonely, and I could not see him. However, he
