Sick Sinus Syndrome
KEYWORDS: sinus, syndrome, sick, sinus syndrome, sick sinus, node, heart, block, atrial, symptoms, sinus node, ecg, pacemaker, patients, pause


(Sinus Node Dysfunction) Sick sinus syndrome refers to sinus node dysfunction causing slow, physiologically inappropriate, heart rates. Symptoms may be minimal or include weakness, effort intolerance, palpitations, and syncope. Diagnosis is by electrocardiography. Patients who have symptoms require a pacemaker. Sick sinus syndrome includes Inappropriate sinus bradycardia Alternating bradycardia and atrial tachyarrhythmias (bradycardia-tachycardia, or brady- tachy syndrome) Sinus pause or sinus arrest Sinoatrial (SA) exit block Chronotropic incompetence Sick sinus syndrome affects mainly older patients, especially those with another cardiac disorder or diabetes. In the brady-tachy variant of the sick sinus syndrome, sinus node dysfunction is associated with atrial tachyarrhythmias, most commonly atrial fibrillation. Sinus pause is temporary cessation of sinus node activity, seen on electrocardiography (ECG) as disappearance of P waves for seconds to minutes. The pause usually triggers escape activity in lower pacemakers (eg, atrial or junctional), preserving heart rate and function, but long pauses cause dizziness and syncope. In SA exit block, the SA node depolarizes, but conduction of impulses to atrial tissue (exit conduction) is impaired. In first-degree SA block, the SA node impulse exit conduction is merely slowed, and, in the absence of another disorder, the ECG is normal and there are no symptoms. In type I second-degree SA (SA Wenckebach) block, impulse exit conduction slows before blocking, seen on the ECG as a P-P interval that decreases progressively until the P wave drops altogether, creating a pause and the appearance of grouped beats; the duration of the pause is less than 2 P-P cycles. In type II second-degree SA block, impulse exit conduction is blocked without slowing beforehand, producing a pause that is a multiple (usually twice) of the P-P interval and the appearance of grouped beats. In third-degree SA block, impulse exit conduction is blocked; normal P waves are absent, giving the appearance of sinus arrest. Chronotropic incompetence refers to the inability to increase sinus heart rate with exercise most commonly defined as achievement of less than 80% of the maximum age-predicted heart rate (220 beats/minute minus the person's age) on an exercise tolerance test (1). Etiology of Sick Sinus Syndrome The most common cause of intrinsic sinus node dysfunction in the sick sinus syndrome is Idiopathic SA node fibrosis, which may be accompanied by degeneration of lower elements of the conducting system, manifested as concomitant atrioventricular (AV block and/or bundle branch block) Other causes of sick sinus syndrome include sleep apnea, medications,
