Sick Sinus Syndrome
KEYWORDS: sinus, syndrome, sick, sinus syndrome, sick sinus, node, heart, block, atrial, symptoms, sinus node, ecg, pacemaker, patients, pause


accompanied by degeneration of lower elements of the conducting system, manifested as concomitant atrioventricular (AV block and/or bundle branch block) Other causes of sick sinus syndrome include sleep apnea, medications, excessive vagal tone, and many ischemic, inflammatory, and infiltrative disorders (1). Symptoms and Signs of Sick Sinus Syndrome Many patients with sick sinus syndrome are asymptomatic. Depending on the heart rate, all the symptoms of bradycardias and, in the case of the brady-tachy variant of the sick sinus syndrome, all the symptoms of tachycardias can occur. Syncope may occur when the sinus node does not immediately resume function after spontaneous termination of an atrial tachyarrhythmia. Diagnosis of Sick Sinus Syndrome ECG Measurement of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) to rule out hypothyroidism Ambulatory ECG monitor Exercise tolerance testing for chronotropic incompetence Rarely, implantable cardiac monitoring or a catheter electrophysiologic study A slow, irregular pulse suggests the diagnosis of sinus node dysfunction, which is confirmed by ECG, rhythm strip, or continuous 24-hour ECG recording. Some patients present with atrial fibrillation, and the underlying sinus node dysfunction manifests only after conversion to sinus rhythm with post- conversion sinus pause. The goal of ECG monitoring is to establish a correlation between symptoms and bradyarrhythmia. If suggested by a history and physical examination, targeted evaluation is performed, including measurement of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) for suspected hypothyroidism, polysomnography for suspected sleep apnea, exercise tolerance testing for suspected chronotropic incompetence, and echocardiography for suspected structural heart disease (1). When symptoms compatible with the sick sinus syndrome are very infrequent, implantable cardiac monitoring may be required to enable correlation between symptoms and rhythm. Infrequently, the diagnosis of sick sinus syndrome is made during a catheter electrophysiologic study done for the evaluation of syncope of unknown etiology. Treatment of Sick Sinus Syndrome Pacemaker Treatment of symptomatic sick sinus syndrome in the absence of an extrinsic reversible cause is pacemaker implantation (1). Risk of atrial fibrillation is reduced when a physiologic (atrial or atrioventricular) pacemaker rather than a ventricular pacemaker is used (2). Dual-chamber pacemakers that minimize ventricular pacing may further reduce risk of atrial fibrillation (2). Dual-chamber pacemakers also further protect patients in the group who experience a 1 to 2% expected annual occurrence of AV block (3). Antiarrhythmic medications may prevent paroxysmal tachyarrhythmias after pacemaker insertion. Theophylline and hydralazine are options to increase heart rate in healthy, younger patients who have symptomatic bradycardia without syncope, but these
