Radionuclide Imaging of the Heart
KEYWORDS: imaging, myocardial, used, ventricular, tc-, perfusion, stress, patients, cardiac, disease, coronary, infarction, muga, coronary artery, volume


Radionuclide imaging uses a special detector (gamma camera) to create an image following injection of radioactive material. This test is done to evaluate Cardiac valvular disorders Cardiomyopathy Congenital cardiac disorders Coronary artery disease (CAD) Other cardiac disorders Radionuclide imaging can expose patients to similar amounts of radiation than do comparable computed tomography (CT) studies. However, because the radioactive material is retained in the patient briefly, sophisticated radiation alarms (eg, in airports) may be triggered by the patient for several days after such testing Single-Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) Planar techniques, which produce a 2-dimensional image, are rarely used; SPECT, which uses a rotating camera system and tomographic reconstruction to produce a 3-dimensional image, is more common in the United States. With multihead SPECT systems, imaging can often be completed in ≤ 10 minutes. Visual comparison of stress and delayed images can be supplemented by quantitative displays. With SPECT, the following can be identified: Inferior and posterior abnormalities Small areas of infarction Vessels responsible for infarction The mass of infarcted and viable myocardium can be quantified, helping determine prognosis. Myocardial Perfusion Imaging In myocardial perfusion imaging, IV radionuclides are taken up by cardiac tissues in rough proportion to perfusion; thus, areas of decreased uptake represent areas of relative or absolute ischemia. Attenuation of myocardial activity by overlying soft tissue may cause false-positive results. Attenuation by breast tissue in women is especially common. Attenuation by the diaphragm and abdominal contents may produce spurious inferior wall defects in both sexes but is more common among men. 99m Attenuation is more likely with technetium-99m ( Tc) than with radioactive thallium 201 (Tl-201). Indications Myocardial perfusion imaging is used with stress testing to Evaluate patients with chest pain of uncertain origin Determine the functional significance of coronary artery stenosis seen on angiography Determine the functional significance of collateral vessels seen on angiography Evaluate the success of reperfusion interventions (eg, coronary artery bypass grafting [CABG], percutaneous intervention, thrombolysis) Estimate prognosis after myocardial infarction Nuclear Medicine Stress Test IMAGE LIVING ART ENTERPRISES/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY After acute myocardial infarction, myocardial perfusion imaging can help estimate prognosis because it can show extent of the perfusion abnormality due to acute myocardial infarction, extent of scarring due to previous infarcts, and residual peri-infarct or other areas of reversible ischemia. Protocols and imaging agents Various protocols are used depending on the imaging agent, which include Radioactive thallium-201 (Tl-201) Technetium-99m (Tc-99m) markers (sestamibi,
