Radionuclide Imaging of the Heart
KEYWORDS: imaging, myocardial, used, ventricular, tc-, perfusion, stress, patients, cardiac, disease, coronary, infarction, muga, coronary artery, volume


with thallium, but there is little myocardial washout, allowing timing flexibility; patients with acute symptoms can be injected with sestamibi immediately and imaged several hours later. Uptake depends more on blood flow than on viable myocardium; viable regions with low blood flow may be misclassified as scar. Studies may be done on a single or on separate days, with a low initial dose during stress followed by a much higher dose at rest. With electrocardiography (ECG)-gated imaging, ventricular wall motion, wall 4/7 Marker Characteristics thickening, and ejection fraction can be estimated. Characteristics are similar to those of Tc-99m tetrofosmin sestamibi. First-pass extraction from the myocardium is high, with rapid washout; half of peak myocardial activity is gone by 10 minutes. Because of its rapid dynamics, use with treadmill exercise is difficult. Tc-99m teboroxime Studies suggest that stress-redistribution testing may be completed within 15 minutes of pharmacologic stress. Coronary artery disease may be detectable by analyzing myocardial washout of the tracer after injection at rest without the need for stress. Infarct Avid Imaging Infarct avid imaging uses radiolabeled markers that accumulate in areas of damaged myocardium, such as Tc-99m pyrophosphate and antimyosin (indium-111 [In-111]–labeled antibodies to cardiac myosin). Images usually become positive 12 to 24 hours after acute myocardial infarction and remain positive for about 1 week; they may remain positive if myocardial necrosis continues post-myocardial infarction or if aneurysms develop. This technique is rarely used now because other diagnostic tests for myocardial infarction (eg, biomarkers) are more readily available and less expensive and because it provides no prognostic information other than infarct size. Tc-99m pyrophosphate is now being used similarly to evaluate cardiac involvement in transthyretin amyloidosis (a type of amyloidosis in which sheets of misfolded transthyretin protein can accumulate in tissues, including the heart). Transthyretin amyloid deposits in the myocardium are particularly avid for Tc-99m pyrophosphate. Absent serum and urine manifestations of a light chain amyloidosis (which also can infiltrate the myocardium and result in a positive scan) or a recent infarct, a high ratio of uptake in the myocardium is specific for transthyretin cardiac amyloidosis and can eliminate the need for myocardial biopsy. Radionuclide Ventriculography 5/7 Radionuclide ventriculography is used to evaluate ventricular function. It is useful for measuring resting and exercise ejection fraction in coronary artery disease, valvular heart disease, and congenital heart disease. Some clinicians prefer it for serial assessment of ventricular function in patients taking
