Radionuclide Imaging of the Heart
KEYWORDS: imaging, myocardial, used, ventricular, tc-, perfusion, stress, patients, cardiac, disease, coronary, infarction, muga, coronary artery, volume


measuring resting and exercise ejection fraction in coronary artery disease, valvular heart disease, and congenital heart disease. Some clinicians prefer it for serial assessment of ventricular function in patients taking cardiotoxic cancer chemotherapy (eg, anthracyclines). However, radionuclide ventriculography has been largely replaced by echocardiography, which is less expensive, does not require radiation exposure, and theoretically can measure ejection fractions as accurately. Tc-99m–labeled red blood cells are injected intravenously. Left ventricular (LV) and right ventricular (RV) function can be evaluated by First-transit studies (a type of beat-to-beat evaluation) Gated (electrocardiography [ECG]-synchronized) blood pool imaging done over several minutes (multiple-gated acquisition [MUGA]) Either study can be done during rest or after exercise. First-transit studies are rapid and relatively easy, but MUGA provides better images and is more widely used. In first-transit studies, 8 to 10 cardiac cycles are imaged as the marker mixes with blood and passes through the central circulation. First-transit studies are ideal for assessing RV function and intracardiac shunts. In MUGA, imaging is synchronized with the R wave of the ECG. Multiple images are taken of short, sequential portions of each cardiac cycle for 5 to 10 minutes. Computer analysis generates an average blood pool configuration for each portion of the cardiac cycle and synthesizes the configurations into a continuous cinematic loop resembling a beating heart. MUGA can quantitate numerous indexes of ventricular function, including regional wall motion, ejection fraction (EF); ratio of stroke volume to end-diastolic volume, ejection and filling rates, LV volume, and indexes of relative volume overload (eg, LV:RV stroke volume ratios). EF is used most commonly. MUGA during rest has virtually no risk. It is used for serially evaluating RV and LV function in various disorders (eg, valvular heart disorders); for monitoring patients taking potentially cardiotoxic drugs (eg, doxorubicin); and for assessing the effects of angioplasty, coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), thrombolysis, and other procedures in patients with CAD or myocardial infarction. Arrhythmias are a relative contraindication because there may be few normal cardiac cycles. Left ventriculography MUGA is useful for detecting left ventricular aneurysms; sensitivity and specificity are > 90% for typical anterior or anteroapical true aneurysms. Conventional gated blood pool imaging shows inferoposterior LV aneurysms less well than it shows anterior and lateral aneurysms; additional views are required. Gated SPECT imaging takes longer (about 20 to 25 minutes with a multihead camera) than a single planar gated view (5 to 10 minutes) but
