Radionuclide Imaging of the Heart
KEYWORDS: imaging, myocardial, used, ventricular, tc-, perfusion, stress, patients, cardiac, disease, coronary, infarction, muga, coronary artery, volume


aneurysms; additional views are required. Gated SPECT imaging takes longer (about 20 to 25 minutes with a multihead camera) than a single planar gated view (5 to 10 minutes) but shows all portions of the ventricles. Right ventriculography 6/7 MUGA is used to assess right ventricular function in patients who have a lung disorder or an inferior left ventricular infarct that may involve the RV. Normally, right ventricular ejection fraction (40 to 55% with most techniques) is lower than left ventricular ejection fraction. RVEF is low in many patients with pulmonary hypertension and in patients with RV infarction or cardiomyopathy affecting the RV. Idiopathic cardiomyopathy is usually characterized by biventricular dysfunction, unlike typical coronary artery disease, which usually causes more left ventricular than right ventricular dysfunction. Valve assessment MUGA can be used with rest-stress protocols to assess valvular disorders that result in left ventricular volume overload. In aortic regurgitation, a reduction in resting EF or no increase in EF with exercise is a sign of deteriorating cardiac function and may indicate a need for valvular repair. MUGA also can be used to calculate the regurgitant fraction in regurgitation of any valve. Normally, the stroke volume of the 2 ventricles is equal. However, in patients with left-sided valvular regurgitation, LV stroke volume exceeds that of the right ventricle by an amount proportional to the regurgitant fraction. Thus, if the RV is normal, the regurgitant fraction of the LV can be calculated from the LV:RV stroke volume ratio. Shunt assessment With MUGA and commercially available computer programs, size of a congenital shunt can be quantified by the stroke volume ratio or, during the first transit of the marker, by the ratio of abnormal early pulmonary recirculation of radioactivity to total pulmonary radioactivity.
