Chronic heart failure in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, ejection, fraction, ejection fraction, reduced, recommendations, person, committee, reduced ejection, care, people heart, specialist


discuss the person's diagnosis and prognosis • explain heart failure terminology • discuss treatments • discuss the risk of sudden death, including any misconceptions about that risk • encourage the person and their family or carers to ask any questions they have. [2018] 1.4 Treating people with newly diagnosed and pre- existing heart failure with reduced ejection fraction See recommendations 1.7.1 and 1.7.2 for guidance on how to introduce the medicines listed in recommendations 1.4.1, 1.4.3 and 1.4.4. See also the section on other treatments and advice for all types of heart failure. Treatment combinations 1.4.1 Offer an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, a beta-blocker, a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (MRA) and a sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitor to people with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. [2025] 1.4.2 For people on the maximum tolerated dose of each of the 4 medicines who continue to have symptoms of heart failure, consider switching the ACE inhibitor to an angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI). [2025] Alternative treatment combinations if certain medicines are not tolerated 1.4.3 For people with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction who have symptoms of intolerance to ACE inhibitors (other than angioedema), offer an ARNI, beta- blocker, MRA and SGLT2 inhibitor. [2025] 1.4.4 For people with angioedema after taking an ACE inhibitor, or who have symptoms of intolerance to ARNIs: • offer a beta-blocker, MRA and SGLT2 inhibitor and • consider an ARB. [2025] For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on treatment combinations for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: medicines for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. Intravenous iron therapy 1.4.5 In people with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction, assess iron status and check for anaemia with all of the following blood tests: • transferrin saturation (TSAT) • serum ferritin • haemoglobin. [2025] 1.4.6 Consider iron sucrose, ferric carboxymaltose or ferric derisomaltose for people with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction and haemoglobin of less than 150 g per litre if they have iron deficiency defined as: • TSAT of less than 20% or • serum ferritin of less than 100 nanogram per ml. [2025] 1.4.7 If iron deficiency anaemia is identified, do not assume that it is related to the person's heart failure and think about investigating for alternative
