Chronic heart failure in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, ejection, fraction, ejection fraction, reduced, recommendations, person, committee, reduced ejection, care, people heart, specialist


medicines and medicine combinations to use (see recommendations 1.4.1, 1.4.3, 1.4.4 and 1.5.1 to 1.5.5) • the order and timing for introducing each medicine • the initial dose of each medicine and any subsequent dose increments • when and how to optimise the dose of each medicine. See also NICE's guideline on shared decision making. [2025] 1.7.2 Primary care prescribers should consider seeking advice from a heart failure specialist before starting someone on an angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI). [2025] For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on starting and monitoring medicine use. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: medicines for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. ACE inhibitors, ARNIs, ARBs and MRAs 1.7.3 Before prescribing an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI), angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) or mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (MRA), measure the person's renal function and electrolyte levels. [2025] 1.7.4 If the person is taking an ACE inhibitor, ARNI, ARB or MRA, measure their renal function and electrolyte levels: • 1 to 2 weeks after starting treatment • 1 to 2 weeks after each dose increment • every 3 to 6 months once the maximum tolerated dose has been established • any time renal function may be compromised. [2025] 1.7.5 If the person's serum creatinine level increases by more than 50% or their potassium concentration increases to more than 5.5 mmol per litre, follow local guidelines. [2025] 1.7.6 For potassium binders recommended as options in NICE technology appraisal guidance for treating hyperkalaemia, see the guidance on: • patiromer (TA623, 2020) • sodium zirconium cyclosilicate (TA599, 2022). 1.7.7 Measure the person's blood pressure, or ask the person to measure their own blood pressure, before and after each dose increment. [2025] 1.7.8 For people with symptoms of postural hypotension, measure blood pressure according to recommendation 1.1.5 in NICE's guideline on hypertension in adults. [2025] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2025 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on starting and monitoring medicine use. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in the evidence reviews A: medicines for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction, B: medicines for heart failure with mildly reduced ejection fraction and D: MRA for heart failure with
