Chronic heart failure in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, ejection, fraction, ejection fraction, reduced, recommendations, person, committee, reduced ejection, care, people heart, specialist


in the evidence reviews A: medicines for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction, B: medicines for heart failure with mildly reduced ejection fraction and D: MRA for heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. Beta-blockers 1.7.9 Do not withhold treatment with a beta-blocker solely because of age or the presence of peripheral vascular disease, erectile dysfunction, diabetes, interstitial pulmonary disease or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. [2010] 1.7.10 Assess for heart rhythm, heart rate and conduction abnormalities using a 12-lead ECG before deciding whether to prescribe a beta-blocker. [2025] 1.7.11 Do not offer a beta-blocker to people with second-degree or third-degree heart block who do not have a pacemaker or to people with bradycardia (that is, a heart rate of less than 50 beats per minute). [2025] 1.7.12 Assess heart rate and clinical status after each dose increment. [2010] 1.7.13 For people with symptoms and bradycardia, consider repeating a 12-lead ECG after each dose increment. [2025] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2025 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on starting and monitoring medicine use. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: medicines for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. Digoxin 1.7.14 Do not routinely monitor serum digoxin concentrations. Be aware that a digoxin concentration measured within 8 to 12 hours of the last dose may be useful to confirm a clinical impression of toxicity or non-adherence. [2003] 1.7.15 Interpret the serum digoxin concentration in the clinical context as toxicity may occur even when the concentration is within the therapeutic range. [2003] 1.8 Clinical review 1.8.1 Monitor all people with heart failure. Provide: • a clinical assessment of functional capacity, fluid status, cardiac rhythm (minimum of examining the pulse), cognitive status and nutritional status • a review of medication, including need for changes and possible side effects • an assessment of renal function • iron status and haemoglobin measurement. Note: This is a minimum. Provide further monitoring for people with comorbidities or co-prescribed medications. [2010, amended 2025] 1.8.2 Provide more detailed monitoring if the person has significant comorbidity or if their condition has deteriorated since the previous review. [2003] 1.8.3 Determine the frequency of monitoring based on the person's clinical status and the stability of their condition. If the person's clinical condition or medication has changed, use a short timeframe for monitoring (days to
