Chronic heart failure in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, ejection, fraction, ejection fraction, reduced, recommendations, person, committee, reduced ejection, care, people heart, specialist


care between the cardiologist and obstetrician. [2003] Depression See NICE's guideline on depression in adults with a chronic physical health problem. Salt and fluid restriction 1.9.10 Do not routinely advise people with heart failure to restrict their sodium or fluid consumption. Ask about salt and fluid consumption and, if needed, advise as follows: • restricting fluids for people with dilutional hyponatraemia • reducing intake for people with high levels of salt or fluid consumption. Continue to review the need to restrict salt or fluid. [2018] 1.9.11 Advise people with heart failure to avoid salt substitutes that contain potassium. [2018] Smoking and alcohol See NICE's guidance on smoking and tobacco and alcohol. Air travel 1.9.12 Advise that air travel will be possible for most people with heart failure, depending on their clinical condition at the time of travel. [2003] Driving 1.9.13 Ensure physicians are up to date with the latest Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA) guidelines. Check the DVLA website for regular updates. [2003] 1.10 Interventional procedures Coronary revascularisation 1.10.1 Do not routinely offer coronary revascularisation to people with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction and coronary artery disease. [2018] Cardiac transplantation 1.10.2 Consider specialist referral for transplantation for people with severe refractory symptoms or refractory cardiogenic shock. [2003] Implantable cardioverter defibrillators and cardiac resynchronisation therapy 1.10.3 Implantable cardioverter defibrillators and cardiac resynchronisation therapy are recommended as options in NICE technology appraisal guidance for treating heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. For full details, see the guidance on implantable cardioverter defibrillators and cardiac resynchronisation therapy (TA314, 2014). 1.10.4 When discussing implantation of a cardioverter defibrillator: • explain the risks, benefits and consequences of cardioverter defibrillator implantation, following the principles on shared decision making in NICE's guideline on shared decision making • ensure the person knows that the defibrillator function can be deactivated without affecting any cardiac resynchronisation or pacing, and reactivated later • explain the circumstances in which deactivation might be offered • discuss and dispel common misconceptions about the function of the device and the consequences of deactivation • provide the person and, if they wish, their family or carers, with written information covering the information discussed. [2018] 1.10.5 Review the benefits and potential harms of a cardioverter defibrillator remaining active in a person with heart failure: • at each 6-monthly review of their heart failure care • whenever their care goals change • as part of advance care
