Chronic heart failure in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, ejection, fraction, ejection fraction, reduced, recommendations, person, committee, reduced ejection, care, people heart, specialist


remaining active in a person with heart failure: • at each 6-monthly review of their heart failure care • whenever their care goals change • as part of advance care planning if it is thought they are nearing the end of life. [2018] 1.11 Cardiac rehabilitation 1.11.1 Offer people with heart failure a personalised, exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation programme. The programme: • should be preceded by an assessment to ensure that it is suitable for the person • should be provided in a format and setting (at home, in the community or in the hospital) that is easily accessible for the person • should include a psychological and educational component • may be incorporated within an existing cardiac rehabilitation programme • should be accompanied by information about support available from healthcare professionals when the person is doing the programme. [2018, amended 2025] 1.12 Palliative care 1.12.1 Do not offer long-term home oxygen therapy for advanced heart failure. Be aware that long-term home oxygen therapy may be offered for comorbidities, such as for some people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (see the section on oxygen in NICE's guideline on chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in over 16s). [2018] 1.12.2 Do not use prognostic risk tools to determine whether to refer a person with heart failure to palliative care services. [2018] 1.12.3 If the symptoms of a person with heart failure are worsening despite optimal specialist treatment, discuss their palliative care needs with the specialist heart failure multidisciplinary team (MDT) and think about a needs assessment for palliative care. [2018] 1.12.4 Offer people with heart failure and their families or carers access to professionals with palliative care skills within the heart failure team. [2003] 1.12.5 If it is thought that a person may be entering the last 2 to 3 days of life, follow NICE's guideline on care of dying adults in the last days of life. [2018] Terms used in this guideline Note: Heart failure is, by definition, symptomatic. Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction Heart failure with left ventricular ejection fraction of 50% or more, plus a structural issue in the heart including 2 or more of the following: • left atrial volume greater than 34 ml per m2 in sinus rhythm, or greater than 40 ml per m2 in atrial fibrillation • ratio between early mitral inflow velocity and mitral annular early diastolic velocity (E:e' ratio) greater than 11 • left
