Chronic heart failure in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, ejection, fraction, ejection fraction, reduced, recommendations, person, committee, reduced ejection, care, people heart, specialist


or greater than 40 ml per m2 in atrial fibrillation • ratio between early mitral inflow velocity and mitral annular early diastolic velocity (E:e' ratio) greater than 11 • left ventricular hypertrophy, that is, wall thickness greater than 12 mm • pulmonary arterial pressure greater than 35 mmHg. Heart failure with mildly reduced ejection fraction Heart failure with left ventricular ejection fraction between 41% and 49%. Heart failure with reduced ejection fraction Heart failure with left ventricular ejection fraction of 40% or less. Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist A medicine that antagonises the action of aldosterone at mineralocorticoid receptors. Recommendations for research The guideline committee has made the following recommendations for research. Key recommendations for research 1 Intravenous iron therapy in adults with iron deficiency and heart failure with mildly reduced or preserved ejection fraction What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of intravenous iron supplementation in adults with iron deficiency and heart failure with mildly reduced or preserved ejection fraction? For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on intravenous iron therapy for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C: IV iron therapy for heart failure. 2 Diuretic therapy for managing fluid overload in people with advanced heart failure in the community In people with advanced heart failure and significant peripheral fluid overload, what is the clinical and cost effectiveness of oral, subcutaneous and intravenous diuretic therapy in the community? 3 Cardiac MRI versus other imaging techniques for diagnosing heart failure What is the optimal imaging technique for the diagnosis of heart failure? 4 The impact of advanced kidney disease on the natriuretic peptide threshold for diagnosing heart failure What are the optimal NT-proBNP thresholds for diagnosing heart failure in people with stage IIIb, IV or V chronic kidney disease? 5 Risk tools for predicting non-sudden death in heart failure What is the most accurate prognostic risk tool in predicting 1-year mortality from heart failure at specific clinically relevant thresholds (for example, sensitivity, specificity, negative predictive value and positive predictive value at a threshold of 50% risk of mortality at 1 year)? Rationale and impact These sections briefly explain why the committee made the recommendations and how they might affect practice. Treatment combinations for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction Recommendations 1.4.1 to 1.4.4 Why the committee made the
