Chronic heart failure in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, ejection, fraction, ejection fraction, reduced, recommendations, person, committee, reduced ejection, care, people heart, specialist


why the committee made the recommendations and how they might affect practice. Treatment combinations for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction Recommendations 1.4.1 to 1.4.4 Why the committee made the recommendations Evidence showed adding a sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitor to existing treatment with an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB), beta-blocker and mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (MRA) reduced mortality and hospitalisation for heart failure without important increases in adverse events. The committee agreed that treatment combinations for people with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction should now include an SGLT2 inhibitor. Similar benefits were seen when adding an MRA to existing treatment with an ACE inhibitor or ARB and beta-blocker although there was an increased risk of hyperkalaemia. The committee agreed an MRA should remain part of the treatment combination for people with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. Economic modelling based on the clinical trials and real-world data suggested that early use of an MRA and SGLT2 inhibitor in combination with ACE inhibitor and beta-blocker would be cost-effective. For this reason and because the correct sequencing of medicines will vary from 1 person to another, the committee agreed to move away from a set of recommendations that include a sequence for introducing each medicine and instead listed treatment combinations for different scenarios. Evidence comparing treatment with an ACE inhibitor, beta-blocker and MRA against treatment with an angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI), beta-blocker and MRA showed reduced all-cause and cardiovascular mortality for the group of people taking the treatment combination with an ARNI. More falls were seen in those taking an ARNI, while hyperkalaemia was more common among those taking an ACE inhibitor. The committee agreed that an ARNI can replace an ACE inhibitor in people who remain symptomatic when receiving the combination of ACE inhibitor, beta-blocker, MRA and SGLT2 inhibitor. However, where this combination is providing symptomatic improvement, switching to an ARNI is not advised because it is not as cost effective as an ACE inhibitor. The committee was aware that there should be a period of at least 36 hours between taking the last dose of an ACE inhibitor and the first dose of an ARNI. Economic modelling showed that ARNIs were cost effective compared to ARBs. The committee agreed that an ARNI should be offered instead of an ACE inhibitor to people who have symptoms of intolerance to ACE inhibitors (other than angioedema). The previous
