Chronic heart failure in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, ejection, fraction, ejection fraction, reduced, recommendations, person, committee, reduced ejection, care, people heart, specialist


ARBs. The committee agreed that an ARNI should be offered instead of an ACE inhibitor to people who have symptoms of intolerance to ACE inhibitors (other than angioedema). The previous first choice in this situation was an ARB. The committee agreed that an ARB can still be used for people with angioedema after taking an ACE inhibitor, or who have symptoms of intolerance to ARNIs. How the recommendations might affect practice Growing numbers of people with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction are being prescribed an SGLT2 inhibitor or ARNI and these recommendations are likely to accelerate this trend. There is likely to be a reduction in hospitalisation for heart failure as a result of this change in prescribing. Return to recommendations Intravenous iron therapy for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction Recommendations 1.4.5 to 1.4.7 Why the committee made the recommendations Evidence showed intravenous (IV) iron (iron sucrose, ferric carboxymaltose or ferric derisomaltose) improved exercise tolerance and quality of life in the first year for people with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction and iron deficiency. Some trials also showed reduced hospitalisation for heart failure. One study showed a significant risk of hypophosphatemia with ferric carboxymaltose. As hypophosphatemia can be monitored and treated, the committee agreed that the risk of this did not outweigh the expected benefits of IV iron. There was evidence that IV iron therapy is cost-effective in people with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction and iron deficiency and so the committee focused on this population. They agreed to define iron deficiency according to the definition used in the trials. To support the recommendation on when to consider IV iron, the committee made a recommendation to assess iron status with blood tests for transferrin saturation (TSAT) and serum ferritin, as well as measuring haemoglobin to check for anaemia. The committee highlighted the importance of considering alternative causes of iron deficiency anaemia when it is identified, but also the need to get the correct balance against over-investigating. As only 1 small trial was available for the mildly reduced or preserved ejection fraction population, the committee made a recommendation for research on use of IV iron therapy in adults with iron deficiency and heart failure with mildly reduced or preserved ejection fraction. How the recommendations might affect practice The use of IV iron therapy to treat iron deficiency in people with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction is
