Chronic heart failure in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, ejection, fraction, ejection fraction, reduced, recommendations, person, committee, reduced ejection, care, people heart, specialist


or preserved ejection fraction. How the recommendations might affect practice The use of IV iron therapy to treat iron deficiency in people with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction is quite common. In some places this might be a change in practice. With increased use of IV iron therapy there could be a reduction in hospitalisation. Return to recommendations Treatment combinations for heart failure with mildly reduced ejection fraction Recommendations 1.5.1 and 1.5.2 Why the committee made the recommendations Evidence suggested each of the following medicines reduce hospitalisation for heart failure, and possibly mortality, in people with heart failure with mildly reduced ejection fraction: angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB), beta-blocker and mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (MRA). In practice, an ACE inhibitor and ARB would not be prescribed together because of the lack of additional benefit and risk of adverse events. There was no cost-effectiveness evidence for these medicines, but all are relatively cheap in their generic form. Evidence comparing use of an angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI) with use of an ARB for treating heart failure with mildly reduced ejection fraction showed no difference in mortality rates. Economic evidence also showed that ARNIs were not cost effective for this population group and so were not recommended. The committee did not review the evidence for sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors because the NICE technology appraisals 929 and 902 already recommend them as treatment options for people with heart failure with mildly reduced ejection fraction. The committee therefore agreed they should be considered alongside the other medicines. How the recommendations might affect practice Although this is a new recommendation for NICE, most people in this population will already be receiving a combination of these medicines, if not contraindicated and depending on comorbidities. Where there is an impact, it will include extra staff time for consultations to establish the correct combination and dose of each of medicine. However, there should be a reduction in hospitalisation for heart failure. Return to the recommendations Treatment combinations for heart failure with preserved ejection fraction Recommendation 1.5.4 Why the committee made the recommendation Evidence showed treatment with a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (MRA) reduced hospitalisation for heart failure and may also improve all-cause and cardiovascular mortality in people with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. However, there was an increased risk of hyperkalaemia. Although this requires careful monitoring and management the committee agreed this should not prevent
