Chronic heart failure in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, ejection, fraction, ejection fraction, reduced, recommendations, person, committee, reduced ejection, care, people heart, specialist


people with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. However, there was an increased risk of hyperkalaemia. Although this requires careful monitoring and management the committee agreed this should not prevent them from recommending MRAs for this population group. The committee did not review the evidence for sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors because the NICE technology appraisals 929 and 902 already recommend them as treatment options for people with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. The committee therefore agreed they should be considered alongside MRAs. How the recommendation might affect practice This is a significant change in practice. The impact will include staff time for consultation to establish the correct dose of MRA and treatment of hyperkalaemia. However, there is likely to be a reduction in hospitalisation for heart failure. Return to recommendation Starting and monitoring medicine use Recommendations 1.7.1 and 1.7.2, recommendations 1.7.3 to 1.7.5 and 1.7.7 and 1.7.8 and recommendations 1.7.10, 1.7.11 and 1.7.13 Why the committee made the recommendations The order in which the medicines should be prescribed should be based on the presenting symptoms, comorbidities and past medical history and the preferences of the person, for example, expected side effects. It is not necessary to optimise the dose of a medicine before introducing another. How quickly to introduce the medicines depends on a number of factors including symptoms, frailty, blood pressure and renal function. Based on their experience and expertise, the committee agreed that angiotensin receptor- neprilysin inhibitors (ARNIs) could be prescribed by primary care prescribers without the advice of a heart failure specialist. However, in some circumstances, advice from a heart specialist might be needed and so should be considered. Evidence showed that angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibitors (ARNIs), angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) and mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs) can affect renal function and electrolyte levels. However, these risks can be managed by measuring a person's electrolyte levels and renal function at baseline and at regular intervals or after increasing their dose. Local guidelines should be followed rather than automatically discontinuing a medicine if there is a rise in serum creatinine of more than 50% or potassium concentrations increase to more than 5.5 mmol per litre. The importance of measuring blood pressure after each dose increment was also stressed by the committee as postural hypotension is a common cause of hospital admission in older people. Beta-blockers can affect heart rate and rhythm. The committee agreed,
