Chronic heart failure in adults: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, ejection, fraction, ejection fraction, reduced, recommendations, person, committee, reduced ejection, care, people heart, specialist


increment was also stressed by the committee as postural hypotension is a common cause of hospital admission in older people. Beta-blockers can affect heart rate and rhythm. The committee agreed, based on their expertise and experience, that a 12-lead ECG should be undertaken in everyone before prescribing them a beta-blocker. The committee supported the current clinical practice of not offering a beta-blocker if a person has second- or third-degree heart block or bradycardia, that is a heart rate of less than 50 beats per minute. They discussed using beta-blockers in symptomatic people with bradycardia, and agreed that repeating a 12-lead ECG after each dose increment was a reasonable safety measure to ensure early detection of any new arrhythmias or conduction abnormalities that could indicate intolerance to the increased dose. How the recommendation might affect practice The recommendations reflect current practice but might increase prescribing of ARNIs by dropping the requirement that these medicines should be initiated by a heart failure specialist. Return to recommendations 1.7.1 and 1.7.2 Return to recommendations 1.7.3 to 1.7.5 and 1.7.7 and 1.7.8 Return to recommendations 1.7.10, 1.7.11 and 1.7.13 Context Key facts and figures Heart failure is a complex clinical syndrome of symptoms and signs caused by impaired heart function. When this affects mainly the left ventricle, it can be due to either weakness of contraction or impaired relaxation of the left ventricle. Other problems affecting the right ventricle, the heart valves, the pulmonary circulation or the pericardium can lead to the development of heart failure. Almost 1 million people in the UK are currently diagnosed with heart failure, with 200,000 new cases each year. Both the incidence and prevalence of heart failure increase steeply with age. The average age at diagnosis is 76 years. Increases in life expectancy, including for people with ischaemic heart disease and hypertension, has increased the incidence of heart failure. The increased prevalence of obesity is another contributor to the rising incidence and prevalence of heart failure. Current practice NICE's 2018 guideline on chronic heart failure concentrated on the weak left ventricular contraction phenotype of heart failure, otherwise called heart failure with reduced ejection fraction, as it was then the only phenotype of chronic heart failure where we had evidence-based treatments. The treatment algorithm then was based on stepwise introduction of medicines aiming to provide people with at least angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, beta-blockers and, if remaining symptomatic, mineralocorticoid receptor
