RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: diseases, burden, disease, population, regions, asdr, dalys, malaria, sdi, abds, global, fig, aapc, arthropod-borne, arthropod-borne diseases


animal species PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 5, 2026 2 / 19 . Major arthropod vectors of disease, such as mosquitoes, ticks, black flies, fleas, lice, triatomine bugs, tsetse flies, and Culicoides midges, can transmit diverse pathogens, including viruses, bacteria, protozoa, and helminths . Arthropod- borne viral diseases such as dengue fever , chikungunya fever , and tick-borne encephalitis cause billions of infections and hundreds of thousands of deaths annually . For example, recently, an outbreak of chikungunya fever in Foshan City, Guangdong Province, China, resulted in 4,824 confirmed cases reported across 12 cities as of July 26th 2025 . Arthropod-borne bacterial diseases include Lyme disease, plague, and typhus. Lyme disease is predominantly endemic in the United States and Europe and is one of the most common vector-borne diseases in the United States, with approximately 476,000 reported cases each year . Referring to protozoiasis, malaria , Chagas disease , and leishmaniasis are also transmitted by arthropods. According to the World Health Organization (WHO) World Malaria Report 2024, about 263 million malaria cases and 597,000 deaths were reported in 83 endemic countries in 2023 . In addition, helminthic diseases such as lymphatic filariasis and onchocerciasis are also transmitted by arthropods. An estimated one billion people in 72 countries or territories remain at risk of lymphatic filariasis. Since the launch of the WHO Global Programme to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis (GPELF), at least 36 million people have developed related complications . Arthropod-borne diseases (ABDs) are primarily concentrated in economically disadvantaged regions of Africa, Asia, mortality rates . Beyond their high baseline burden, some ABDs are demonstrating upward trends. Globalization, climate change , land use changes , and the expansion of global transportation networks have facilitated the geo- graphical spread of arthropod vectors, thereby increasing the risk of outbreaks of ABDs . For example, the proliferation of midges and mosquitoes has contributed to outbreaks of Oropouche fever in Latin America . Moreover, chikungunya fever, transmitted by Aedes albopictus and Aedes aegypti, has caused outbreaks in Guangdong, China . The diverse and expanding burden of ABDs, compounded by resource inequities and increasing antimicrobial resis- required, addressing global and regional patterns, population-specific impacts, temporal trends, and socioeconomic conse- quences. Based on data from the Global Burden of Disease Study (GBD) 2021, the present study systematically analyzes the prevalence and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) of ABDs from 1990 to 2021. By reviewing historical data and projecting
