RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: diseases, burden, disease, population, regions, asdr, dalys, malaria, sdi, abds, global, fig, aapc, arthropod-borne, arthropod-borne diseases


Burden of Disease Study (GBD) 2021, the present study systematically analyzes the prevalence and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) of ABDs from 1990 to 2021. By reviewing historical data and projecting future burdens, we aim to provide a comprehensive and comparable epidemiological evaluation to inform targeted global prevention and control strategies. Materials and methods Ethics statement This article does not contain any studies with human participants or animals performed by any of the authors. The data used in this research are publicly available and de-identified, retrieved from the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) study database ( Therefore, ethical approval and informed consent were not required. Data source Based on the latest epidemiological data and improved standardized methodologies, the Global Burden of Disease Study 2021 systematically estimated the global burden of 371 diseases and injuries, 288 causes of death, and 88 risk factors across 204 countries and territories from 1990 to 2021 . Herein, we obtained data on the burden of ABDs from the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) study database ( platform for the period 1990–2021. The dataset includes GBD Estimate (cases of death or injury), measures (prevalence, DALYs), metrics (rate, number), causes (malaria, Chagas disease, leishmaniasis, African trypanosomiasis, lymphatic filariasis, oncho- cerciasis, dengue, yellow fever, and Zika virus disease), location (global, Sociodemographic Index (SDI) regions, GBD PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 5, 2026 3 / 19 sub-regions, and 204 countries and territories), age (all ages, age-standardized, and 5-year age groups from < 5 years to 95 + years at a 5-year interval), sex (both sexes, female, male), and year (1990–2021). The SDI, ranging from 0 to 1, is a composite indicator used to assess a country’s level of socio-economic development (high, high-middle, middle, low-middle, and low). Age categories were defined according to the World Health Organization (WHO) standard classification. “Adolescents” were defined as individuals aged 10–19 years, and “young people” as those aged 10–24 years . The selection of diseases was based on the International Classification of Diseases (ICD), tenth revision (ICD-10), and ICD-9. This study encompassed nine biologically transmitted diseases that are spread via arthropod bites and were mod- eled independently in the GBD 2021 study. Diseases were included if they met the following criteria: (1) biological trans- mission through arthropod vectors via bites; (2) independent cause-specific estimates in the GBD 2021 framework; and (3) sufficient data availability for age- and sex-specific burden estimation. Diseases transmitted solely through
