RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: diseases, burden, disease, population, regions, asdr, dalys, malaria, sdi, abds, global, fig, aapc, arthropod-borne, arthropod-borne diseases


mission through arthropod vectors via bites; (2) independent cause-specific estimates in the GBD 2021 framework; and (3) sufficient data availability for age- and sex-specific burden estimation. Diseases transmitted solely through mechanical carriage of pathogens on arthropod surfaces were excluded. These diseases were further categorized according to their pathogenic agents into protozoiasis (malaria, Chagas disease, leishmaniasis, African trypanosomiasis), helminthiases (lymphatic filariasis, onchocerciasis), and viral diseases (dengue, yellow fever, and Zika virus disease). Given the pres- ence of comorbidities, we could not combine prevalence estimates. Therefore, this study only aggregated DALYs, as expressed in the following formula: p = i p , SE= Uk–Lk , SE = i SE2 total k=1 k 2 × z0.975 total k=1 k (cid:28) (cid:30) (cid:30) (cid:31) (cid:29) 95%CI=p 1.96 SE total total ± × (cid:31) where, p represents the point estimate of the prevalence of the k-th disease; and[L , U ] denotes its 95% confidence k k k interval (CI); z 1.96. 0.975 ≈ Statistical analysis To characterize the burden of ABDs from 1990 to 2021, we conducted a longitudinal analysis of temporal trends at the addition, a cross-sectional comparison was performed to assess the differential burden across diseases, regions, sexes, and age groups. This study used the number of prevalent cases, DALYs, and their corresponding age-standardized rates (ASRs) as the primary metrics to assess the burden of ABDs, all of which are reported with 95% uncertainty intervals (UIs). We utilized Joinpoint regression analysis to evaluate temporal trends in the burden of ABDs from 1990 to 2021 by estimating the Average Annual Percentage Change (AAPC) in age-standardized prevalence (ASPR) and DALY rates (ASDR). A log-linear segmented regression model was applied, using the natural logarithm of the ASR as the dependent variable to identify significant shifts in trends (joinpoints). The optimal number and timing of these joinpoints were determined using the Grid Search Method (GSM) based on the minimum mean squared error. We validated the joinpoints using a Monte Carlo permutation test, allowing for a maximum of five points. Finally, the AAPC and its 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated to quantify the average annual change over the study period . Formula for Average Annual Percentage Change (AAPC): wi AAPC= e wiβi–1 100% ∑· × ∑ (cid:31) (cid:30) PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 5, 2026 4 / 19 where, βi represents the regression slope for the i time segment, and wi is the length (in
