RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: diseases, burden, disease, population, regions, asdr, dalys, malaria, sdi, abds, global, fig, aapc, arthropod-borne, arthropod-borne diseases


younger children, while the DALYs rate of leishmaniasis, dengue, and Zika increases gradually after age ≥ 80; the remaining diseases are mainly concentrated in adolescents and middle-aged populations, with Chagas disease showing an increase in the DALYs rate after age ≥ 80. For lymphatic filariasis, the male burden is significantly higher than that of females, with the number of DALYs exceeding 200% across the 5–94 age range, peaking at 60–64 years (387.36%) (Fig 3c1-c9). Frontier analysis In the frontier analysis, DALYs from overall, protozoal, and helminth diseases decreased with rising SDI (Fig 4a, 4b1 and 4b2). For viral diseases, dengue increased with SDI in Tropical Latin America, Eastern Sub-Saharan Africa, and East Asia, PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 5, 2026 10 / 19 Fig 3. Number of DALYs and ASDRs of arthropod-borne diseases across different age groups globally for both sexes in 2021. The legend in panel (a) applies to all subsequent panels. The panels correspond to: (b1–b3) major disease categories (protozoiasis, helminthiases, and viral diseases); and (c1–c9) specific diseases (malaria, Chagas disease, leishmaniasis, African trypanosomiasis, lymphatic filariasis, onchocerciasis, dengue, yellow fever, and Zika virus disease). Abbreviations: DALYs, disability-adjusted life years; ASDR, age-standardized DALY rate. peaked near 0.6, and then declined (Fig 4b3). Yellow fever declined steadily with SDI, whereas Zika virus disease rose consistently with higher SDI. The results showed the greatest potential for malaria burden reduction in Central Latin Amer- ica and Southern Sub-Saharan Africa. Chagas disease exhibited the largest improvement space in Eastern Sub-Saharan Africa; leishmaniasis in Central Europe; lymphatic filariasis in South Asia; and onchocerciasis in Central Latin America. Notably, African trypanosomiasis and Zika virus disease revealed significant control gaps in non-endemic regions— Central Latin America and Western Europe, respectively—while dengue in East Asia had burdens significantly exceeding those expected based on SDI levels (Fig 4b). Projections of parasitic diseases up to 2030 Using the INLA framework combined with the BAPC model, we projected the global burden of ABDs up to 2030. The results indicated that from 2021 to 2030, the total disease burden will gradually increase, with an estimated rise of about 16.78% (Table K in S1 Text and Fig 5a). The burden of protozoiasis is expected to increase steadily, while that of helminth and viral diseases is predicted to decline (Fig 5b1-5b3). The ASDRs for malaria and African trypanosomiasis show slight increases. In contrast, the ASDRs for other diseases are projected to decrease,
