RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: diseases, burden, disease, population, regions, asdr, dalys, malaria, sdi, abds, global, fig, aapc, arthropod-borne, arthropod-borne diseases


and viral diseases is predicted to decline (Fig 5b1-5b3). The ASDRs for malaria and African trypanosomiasis show slight increases. In contrast, the ASDRs for other diseases are projected to decrease, with dengue showing the largest decline, estimated as a 31.59% reduction by 2030 (Fig 5c). The ASPRs for malaria, leishmaniasis, and African trypanosomiasis are expected to rise, whereas the ASPR for the remaining diseases is projected to fall (Table F in S1 Text). In the figures, blue shaded areas represent the 95% credible intervals of the projections. The corresponding numerical results are pro- vided in Table L (Fig 5 and Table L in S1 Text). PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 5, 2026 11 / 19 Fig 4. Frontier Analysis of ASDRs of Arthropod-Borne Diseases Across 21 Regions in Relation to SDI. (a) Overall arthropod-borne diseases. (b) Specific disease categories and conditions: (b1–b3) major categories (protozoiasis, helminthiases, and viral diseases). Specific diseases are displayed as: (b1-1) malaria, (b1-2) Chagas disease, (b1-3) leishmaniasis, (b1-4) African trypanosomiasis; (b2-1) lymphatic filariasis, (b2-2) onchocerciasis; (b3- 1) dengue, (b3-2) yellow fever, and (b3-3) Zika virus disease. The solid curved line represents the frontier, indicating the lowest potentially achievable ASDR at each level of SDI. Abbreviations: ASDR, age-standardized DALY rate; SDI, Socio-demographic Index. Discussion This study systematically evaluated the epidemiological burden and spatiotemporal trends of ABDs worldwide from 1990 to 2021 and further projected their trajectories up to 2030. Overall, the burden of these diseases exhibits marked geo- graphical clustering and is highly sensitive to regional SDIs. Their transmission and dynamics are jointly driven by factors challenge. Disease types and temporal trends Parasitic diseases, particularly protozoan infections, represent the largest share of the arthropod-borne disease burden . Malaria accounts for nearly 90% of total DALYs, with its burden concentrated in low-SDI regions of Central and Western sub-Saharan Africa . From 2019 to 2021, malaria in low-SDI regions showed a substantial increase. This resurgence might be related to the spread of drug resistance , disruption of healthcare services during the COVID-19 pandemic , and the expansion of vector-ecological niches resulting from climate change . These findings high- light that progress in malaria control remains fragile, and sustained vigilance is required to address emerging risk factors. Leishmaniasis demonstrated a pattern of increasing ASPR, but declining ASDR in certain regions, suggesting that while PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 5, 2026 12 / 19 Fig 5. Predicted ASDRs of
