Brugada syndrome overview
KEYWORDS: brugada, syndrome, brugada syndrome, patients, type, cardiac, death, sudden, drugs, ventricular, abnormalities, associated, risk, sudden cardiac, ekg


Brugada syndrome is a genetic disease that is characterized by abnormal electrocardiogram (EKG) findings and an increased risk of sudden cardiac death in young adults, and occasionally in children and infants. Brugada syndrome is a condition that causes a disruption of the heart's normal rhythm. Specifically, this disorder can lead to uncoordinated electrical activity in the heart's lower chambers (ventricles), an abnormality called ventricular arrhythmia. If untreated, the irregular heartbeats can cause fainting (syncope), seizures, difficulty breathing, or sudden death. These complications typically occur when an affected person is resting or asleep. Historical Perspective Brugada syndorme was potentially first seen on EKG in survivors of cardiac arrest in 1989, but it was not until 1992 that the Brugada brothers recognized it as a distinct clinical entity which could cause sudden death by ventricular fibrillation. Classification There are three electrocardiographic patterns associated with Brugada syndrome: Type I, Type II and Type III. The diagnosis of Brugada syndrome is based upon the presence of Type I EKG changes. Patients with Type II or Type III Brugada patterns can convert to a Type I Brugada pattern following the administration of sodium channel blockers such as ajmaline and flecainide. Pathophysiology Approximately 20% of persons with Brugada syndome have a mutation in the gene SCN5A. This gene encodes for the sodium ion channel. The mutation is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, and is more commonly seen in males. Brugada syndrome has also been shown to result from defects in a calcium channel. Differentiating Brugada syndrome from other Diseases Brugada syndrome should be differentiated from other cardiac disorders, electrolyte disturbances, and drug intoxication syndromes. The condition which most similarly presents to Brugada syndrome is arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia, as they both cause sudden cardiac death in children. Brugada syndrome can be differentiated from arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia by the genetic counterpart of SCN5A, the lack of structural abnormalities within the heart, the association with polymorphic ventricular tachycardia during sleep, and EKG changes that are enhanced by vagotonic agents. Epidemiology and Demographics Insofar as Brugada syndrome is a relatively newly recognized syndrome, its incidence and prevalence continues to increase. Brugada syndrome is quite common in Southeast Asia where it is endemic, and affects 500 out of every 100,000 individuals. It is the second leading cause of death after car accidents among young people in these countries. It has been estimated that Brugada syndrome accounts for 4%
