Brugada syndrome overview
KEYWORDS: brugada, syndrome, brugada syndrome, patients, type, cardiac, death, sudden, drugs, ventricular, abnormalities, associated, risk, sudden cardiac, ekg


every 100,000 individuals. It is the second leading cause of death after car accidents among young people in these countries. It has been estimated that Brugada syndrome accounts for 4% of all sudden cardiac deaths and 20% of sudden cardiac deaths among patients with structurally normal hearts. It is 8-10 times more common in men. Risk Factors The EKG changes of Brugada syndrome can vary over time, depending on the autonomic balance and the administration of antiarrhythmic drugs. Adrenergic stimulation decreases the ST segment elevation, while vagal stimulation worsens it. During sleep, there is heightened vagal tone, and the pattern may be exacerbated at that time (as is the risk of sudden cardiac death at that time). The administration of class Ia, Ic and III drugs increases the ST segment elevation, as does fever. The impact of exercise depends upon when the EKG is obtained: during exercise the ST segment elevation may decrease but may increase later after exercise when the body temperature has risen. Similar to early repolarization variant, when the heart rate decreases, the ST segment elevation increases and when the heart rate increases the ST segment elevation decreases. While Brugada syndrome is often associated with polymorphic VT which may be self terminating, in the presence of autonomic imbalance, hypokalemia, fever or exacerbating drugs sustained ventricular fibrillation and sudden cardiac death may result.[1] Screening Relatives of patients with Brugada syndrome can be screened for the syndrome by obtaining an EKG, although the diagnostic pattern may be concealed. Genetic testing can also be used to support the diagnosis of Brugada syndrome and to detect relatives at risk.[1] Unfortunately, despite the association of the Brugada syndrome with the SCN5A genotype, there is unfortunately no association between the results of genetic testing and clinical prognosis. Natural History, Complications and Prognosis Brugada syndrome usually becomes apparent in adulthood, although it may present in infants and children as sudden cardiac death. The mean age of sudden death in patients with Brugada syndrome is 40 years old. The Brugada patient may develop atrial arrhythmias and abnormalities in atrial conduction, and these abnormalities are associated with inducibility of ventricular fibrillation. Implantation of a cardiac defibrillator AICD can improve prognosis for some. Diagnosis Diagnostic Criteria The diagnosis of brugada syndrome is based upon electrocardiographic and clinical criteria. Only the Type I Brugada pattern qualifies as part of the diagnostic criteria for Brugada syndrome. Other rhythm abnormalities
