Brugada syndrome overview
KEYWORDS: brugada, syndrome, brugada syndrome, patients, type, cardiac, death, sudden, drugs, ventricular, abnormalities, associated, risk, sudden cardiac, ekg


diagnosis of brugada syndrome is based upon electrocardiographic and clinical criteria. Only the Type I Brugada pattern qualifies as part of the diagnostic criteria for Brugada syndrome. Other rhythm abnormalities and family history are also taken into account when making the diagnosis of Brugada syndrome. History and Symptoms 2/4 Patients with Brugada syndrome will sometimes have a family history of sudden cardiac death and a personal history of of arrhythmias. If patients are symptomatic they often have symptoms of syncope, seizures, agonal breathing, difficulty breathing, and patients may even present with sudden death. These symptoms most often come on either at rest or during sleep. Physical Examination Insofar as Brugada syndrome is not associated with any structural heart disease, there are generally no abnormalities on physical examination. Vagal maneuvers such as carotid sinus massage may increase vagal tone and may unmask the presence of a Type I Brugada pattern. In a patient who has experienced recent symptoms such as syncope, it is important to check the temperature in so far as fever may trigger a self terminating or sustained episode of ventricular tachycardia / ventricular fibrillation. The presence of fever is also a target of antipyretic therapy. Laboratory Findings Hypokalemia and hyperkalemia can both trigger either sustained or nonsustained episodes of ventricular tachycardia / ventricular fibrillation and serum electrolytes should therefore be checked. Both alcohol and cocaine intoxication can be associated with either sustained or nonsustained episodes of ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation and a toxicology screen should be ordered if there is a clinical suspicion. Likewise, tricyclic antidepressants can be associated with exacerbations of the syndrome, and levels of these agents should also be checked if there is a clinical suspicion. Electrocardiogram There are three electrocardiographic patterns associated with Brugada syndrome: Type I, Type II and Type III. The diagnosis of Brugada syndrome is based upon the presence of Type I EKG changes. Patients with Type II or Type III Brugada patterns can convert to a Type I Brugada pattern following the administration of sodium channel blockers such as ajmaline and flecainide. Type 1 Brugada syndrome may always be present on the EKG, or it may be elicited by the administration of particular drugs (e.g., Class IC antiarrythmic drugs that blocks sodium channels such as ajmaline, flecainide) or it may be unmasked by various triggers or risk factors. Chest X Ray Insofar as Brugada syndrome is not associated with structural abnormalities
