Brugada syndrome overview
KEYWORDS: brugada, syndrome, brugada syndrome, patients, type, cardiac, death, sudden, drugs, ventricular, abnormalities, associated, risk, sudden cardiac, ekg


sodium channels such as ajmaline, flecainide) or it may be unmasked by various triggers or risk factors. Chest X Ray Insofar as Brugada syndrome is not associated with structural abnormalities of the heart, there are no associated abnormalities on the chest x-ray. Echocardiography or Ultrasound There is ongoing controversy as to whether there are structural abnormalities among patients with Brugada syndrome. There was one small study of 11 patients with Brugada syndrome that demonstrated a rapid swinging motion shifting towards the right ventricle of the basal segment of the intraventricular septum and early systole in 73% (8/11) of patients with Brugada syndrome. None of the control patients demonstrated this abnormality.[2] Electrophysiologic Studies 3/4 Patients who are inducible at the time electrophysiologic study have an eightfold increased risk of aborted sudden cardiac death compared with those patients who are not inducible.[3] Some groups have advocated that programmed electrical stimulation (PES) be performed to induce ventricular fibrillation for risk assessment in Brugada patients [4][5] Other groups have not reproduced the predictive value of these tests,[6][7] so the value of programmed electrical stimulation (PES) and inducibility remains controversial. Genetic Testing Despite the association of the Brugada syndrome with the SCN5A genotype, there is unfortunately no association between the results of genetic testing and clinical prognosis. Genetic testing can be used to support the diagnosis of Brugada syndrome and to detect relatives at risk.[1] Treatment Implantation of a cardiac defibrillator is the only proven method of treatment in Brugada syndrome.Patients with aborted sudden cardiac death are at high risk for recurrence and should undergo AICD implantation, and do not require an electrophysiologic study to assess inducibility. Patients with symptoms (either syncope, seizures or nocturnal agonal respirations) should undergo implantation of a defibrillator if no other cause of their symptoms can be identified. Asymptomatic patients should undergo electrophysiologic testing, and if VT / VF can be induced, they should undergo implantation of an ICD. Asymptomatic patients who cannot be induced should followed- up closely. Patients who are asymptomatic with no family history of Brugada syndrome can be followed-up closely. Drugs to Avoid There are certain drugs that should be avoided in patients with Brugada syndrome. These drugs include ajmaline, flecainide, pilsicainide, procainamide, and propafenone. These drugs are all sodium blocking antiarrhythmics which are either in the IA class or IC class. Drugs to Preferably Avoid Drugs which are not contraindicated in Brugada syndrome, but which
