Maggio et al. Italian Journal of Pediatrics (2025) 51:202 Italian Journal of Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: metabolic, patients, mis-c, pmid, disease, org, doi, doi org, https, https doi, covid-, infection, imd, pmcid, mma


as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory licence, visit in managing IMD therapeutic emergencies. Paediatricians must provide a strict monitoring of metabolic compensa- tion, to avoid irreversible complications. Keywords MIS-C, Inherited metabolic diseases, Methylmalonic academia, Anakinra, Intravenous immunoglobulins Background However, only a few cases of patients with IMD and Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children MIS-C are described. To our knowledge, this is the first (MIS-C) is a hyperinflammatory syndrome charac- case of MIS-C in a patient with Methylmalonic aci- terized by fever, inflammation, multiorgan impair- demia (MMA). ment that manifests 14–60 days after the severe acute Among IMD, MMA is a severe and rare condition. respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) MMA secondary to mutase deficiency, mut0, is an inborn infection in patients aged < 21 years. The Centers for error of metabolism causing complete enzyme defi- Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) case definition ciency. This form represents the worst condition of the of MIS-C developed a new case definition for MIS-C phenotypical spectrum of the disease, and it is charac- diagnostic criteria, including: persistent fever > 38° terized by the complete absence of enzyme activity. The C, without an alternative diagnosis and the exclusion disease is characterized by fever, recurrent ketoacidosis of other microbiological etiologies, in a patient with a crises or transient vomiting, fatigue, dehydration, hypo- mg/dl; > 2 new-onset manifestations of the follow- lectual disability, hepatomegaly, chronic kidney disease, ing: conjunctivitis, oral mucosal changes, rash, ery- pancreatitis, cardiomyopathy, metabolic stroke, coma thema and/or oedema of the extremities; abdominal and death. Despite a specific dietary treatment, with the pain, vomiting, diarrhoea; lymphocyte count < 1000/ restriction of natural protein, particularly of propiogenic µl, platelet count < 150,000/µl. The most common clini- amino acid precursors, and the support of a high-caloric cal signs and symptoms include: myocardial dysfunc- diet, patients undergo life-threatening metabolic imbal- tion, capillary leak and cardiogenic shock; respiratory ance. Further long-term complications include progres- symptoms, acute kidney injury, neurologic symptoms sive renal failure, metabolic stroke and other neurological
