Maggio et al. Italian Journal of Pediatrics (2025) 51:202 Italian Journal of Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: metabolic, patients, mis-c, pmid, disease, org, doi, doi org, https, https doi, covid-, infection, imd, pmcid, mma


life-threatening metabolic imbal- tion, capillary leak and cardiogenic shock; respiratory ance. Further long-term complications include progres- symptoms, acute kidney injury, neurologic symptoms sive renal failure, metabolic stroke and other neurological (headache, aseptic meningitis, irritability); thrombo- symptoms. Severe infections can act as a trigger. sis, Macrophage Activation Syndrome (MAS) . Increased CRP, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) Case presentation and interleukin (IL)−6, neutrophilic leukocytosis, lym- We describe the clinical case of a 2-year-old child with phopenia and organ dysfunction are secondary to sys- MMA secondary to mutase deficiency, with the docu- temic inflammation and cytokine storm . Patients mented homozygous mutation c.2179 C > T of MMUT with MIS-C show a significant overlap of symptoms gene, associated to mut0 phenotype. He was the son of with Kawasaki disease (KD) [4–7], but the actual dif- consanguineous parents. Both parents present the same ference between the two pathological conditions is still heterozygous mutation. The diagnosis was made through under discussion. Extended Newborn Screening (ENS), subsequently con- Patients with inherited metabolic diseases (IMD) firmed through genetic study, conducted via next genera- have COVID-19 infection severity and long COVID tion sequencing panel. Clinical phenotype and metabolic incidence like the general population. The risk of acute analysis were confirmatory of the diagnosis. He was metabolic decompensation is not higher than that treated from the first days of life with a high-caloric found in other infections. However, COVID-19 sever- diet and the restriction of natural protein, particularly ity in IMD patients may be correlated to disease cat- of propiogenic amino acid precursors, associated with egory (complex molecule degradation) in children, carnitine, hydroxocobalamin. However, he showed poor and comorbidities in adults. In fact, in a case series of metabolic control, with recurrent vomiting, fatigue, patients with 27 different IMD and COVID-19 infec- dehydration, developmental delay, hepatomegaly. In fact, tion, 2/131 children (1.5%) had MIS-C and and were the little patient’s therapeutic program included a liver treated with favipiravir, intravenous immunoglobu- transplant. In fact, liver transplant may be considered in lin, anti-inflammatory drugs, anakinra, antibiotics and patients with significant metabolic instability . anticoagulants. The high incidence of MIS-C may be When he was 2-year-old, he had COVID-19 with fever coincidental but warrants further studies . These associated with mild respiratory symptoms. possible associations must be further investigated, also based on the clinical practice of experts in the field. A month after contracting SARS-CoV-2 infection, he Electrocardiogram and echocardiography were normal,
