Maggio et al. Italian Journal of Pediatrics (2025) 51:202 Italian Journal of Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: metabolic, patients, mis-c, pmid, disease, org, doi, doi org, https, https doi, covid-, infection, imd, pmcid, mma


paediatric cases of COVID-19 . (HMG‐CoA lyase deficiency)) developed a metabolic had moderate or severe COVID-19, two (0.9%) patients of an acute metabolic attack. The patient with MMA had died for a lethal COVID-19. Three patients (one with severe metabolic acidosis, hyperlactatemia, renal func- 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A [HMG-CoA] tion disorder, during a mild COVID‐19 infection . A lyase deficiency, one with long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl- patient with HMG‐CoA lyase deficiency had metabolic CoA dehydrogenase [LCHAD] deficiency, and one with acidosis, hyperlactatemia, hypoglycemia, vomiting and MMA) had an acute metabolic decompensation during insufficient feeding, during a moderate COVID‐19 infec- the infection and were hospitalized. Standard treatment tion. In these four patients, a prompt emergency treat- protocols for metabolic decompensation were applied. ment was performed for metabolic decompensation. In However, they did not develop MIS-C. Two children organic acidemia, patients including MMA and propionic (1.5% of the pediatric patients) (one with LCHAD and acidemia, oral treatment was substituted by intravenous the other with biotinidase deficiency) developed MIS-C carnitine. Parenteral nutrition with hypercaloric support, and recovered with treatment with favipiravir, IVIG, lipid and glucose in addition to continuous intravenous anakinra, anti-inflammatory drugs, antibiotics, antico- insulin infusion was started to raise anabolism. Intrave- agulants . The high incidence of MIS-C in this cohort nous bicarbonate replacement was added to control met- may be casual but needs further studies . abolic acidosis, and protein intake was stopped for 24 h. In a retrospective observational study conducted in The treatment of the patient with HMG‐CoA lyase defi- Poland, almost all patients with infection reported mild ciency included intravenous carnitine, intravenous bicar- symptoms, typically described in COVID-19. Only in bonate and high glucose rated intravenous nutrition . three children, the worsening of primary disease symp- One case report of a 1‐year‐old patient with propionic toms was observed: two patients with Niemann Pick acidemia, had a moderate COVID‐19 infection with only type C (NPC) and one with Niemann Pick disease type a slight hyperammonemia and no major changes in blood B (NPB). They showed psychomotor agitation or motor gas analysis and plasma lactate level. COVID-19 caused skills worsening, despite the maintenance of sympto- his first metabolic crisis. However, he recovered without matic treatment during SARS-CoV-2 infection. a severe clinical outcome (Table 2). One pediatric patient with very long-chain acyl-CoA Considering all categories of IMD, individuals with dehydrogenase deficiency (VLADD) was hospitalized intoxication‐type metabolic disorders and energy Table 2 Patients reported in
