Maggio et al. Italian Journal of Pediatrics (2025) 51:202 Italian Journal of Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: metabolic, patients, mis-c, pmid, disease, org, doi, doi org, https, https doi, covid-, infection, imd, pmcid, mma


2). One pediatric patient with very long-chain acyl-CoA Considering all categories of IMD, individuals with dehydrogenase deficiency (VLADD) was hospitalized intoxication‐type metabolic disorders and energy Table 2 Patients reported in literature with IMD and COVID-19 with related complications Reference Patients Diseases Outcome Kahraman AB, et al. 223 6 IMD Moderate or severe COVID-19 3 (1 with HMG-CoA lyase deficiency, 1 with LCHAD deficiency, 1 with MMA) Hospitalization for metabolic 2 IMD (1 with Tyrosinemia type I, 1 with PKU) decompensation 2 (1 with LCHAD, 1 with biotinidase deficiency) Died with COVID-19 MIS-C Lampe C, et al. 13 Mild COVID-19 Tobór-Świętek E, et al. 44 2 with NPB and NPC; 1 with VLADD Mild COVID-19 1 with Gaucher disease type I Metabolic decompensation 1 with Fabry massive deep vein thrombosis ischemic stroke Zubarioglu T, et al. 22 4 patients (2 with propionic acidemia, 1with methylmalonic acidemia, 1with Mild COVID-19 HMG‐CoA lyase deficiency) metabolic decompensation Caciotti A, et al. 1 1 with propionic acidemia Mild COVID-19 metabolism disorders are mainly at risk for metabolic improve the metabolic imbalance, as persistent high lev- decompensation during an intercurrent infectious dis- els of methylmalonic acid demonstrate. Anakinra showed ease . In intoxication‐type IMD, infectious diseases a good safety profile also in severe metabolic disease. The can trigger catabolism, which leads to endogenous break- good safety profile is well demonstrated in international down of proteins and increased deposit of toxic metabo- literature, in patients with systemic juvenile idiopathic lites. In energy metabolism disorders, infectious diseases arthritis , autoinflammatory diseases [24–27] and can trigger catabolism that raises cellular energy request. KD . Clinical data support the employment of anak- The lack of response to this energy need leads to an inra as a first-line biologic as early as possible, to abate energy deficit and metabolic decompensation. the cytokine cascade not exclusively in severe and/or course. However, COVID‐19 infection can trigger a To our knowledge, this is the first case described in severe life‐threatening metabolic decompensation in the literature of MIS-C in a child affected by MMA, these patients . The published data of the European treated with anakinra. Our child, as described in chil- Registry and Network for intoxication type metabolic dren with IMD, who frequently experience multiorgan diseases Consortium (E-IMD), including MMA, showed dysfunctions, underwent acute metabolic decompensa- that the survival rate was 100% . tion during MIS-C. In our patient SARS-CoV-2 infection The unfortunate outcome
