Maggio et al. Italian Journal of Pediatrics (2025) 51:202 Italian Journal of Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: metabolic, patients, mis-c, pmid, disease, org, doi, doi org, https, https doi, covid-, infection, imd, pmcid, mma


multiorgan diseases Consortium (E-IMD), including MMA, showed dysfunctions, underwent acute metabolic decompensa- that the survival rate was 100% . tion during MIS-C. In our patient SARS-CoV-2 infection The unfortunate outcome of our patient is linked to triggered the life-threatening cytokine storm. Hyperin- multiple cofactors that intervened, also based on the flammation is an overstated metabolic stress also for chil- increased risk of severe infections and metabolic decom- dren without IMD, requiring a prompt treatment with pensation after infections in patients with IMD, although high doses glucocorticoids and biological drugs, as IL-1 MIS-C was promptly treated with effective therapy. antagonists (14; 16). In fact, these patients need to pro- This case highlights the role of anakinra in a child with vide emergency treatment during acute decompensation a severe form of MMA and MIS-C, with the significant events, with the goal of averting catabolism and mini- tion of MOF, secondary to the cytokine storm of MIS-C the table the levels of methylmalonic acid of our patient and the metabolic imbalance. Furthermore, MMA is a are reported. We showed that methylmalonic acid lev- metabolic disorder characterized by metabolic crises and els were extremely high during the acute phase of MIS- the catabolic effects of glucocorticoids can exacerbate C, however, they significantly decreased after starting the catabolic state in MMA patients, further disrupting immunomodulatory therapy. This obtained goal demon- their metabolism, leading to an increased risk of acute strates that the cytokine storm, the main pathogenetic decompensation. The breakdown of muscle tissue due to basis of MIS-C, must be promptly controlled in patients catabolic effects of glucocorticoids can trigger complica- with IMD, to prevent irreversible metabolic decom- tions like muscle weakness and severe muscle damage. pensation and MOF. High doses of glucocorticoids and Due to these risks, the use of systemic glucocorticoids anakinra work together to reach this target. Then again, in MMA patients is generally avoided, particularly out- nutrition with high caloric intake by intravenous carbo- side of emergency situations. However, anakinra did not hydrates infusion, stop of proteins intake in the first step, followed by an amino acid preparation excluding toxic stem metabolic decompensation with appropriate nutri- amino acids as isoleucine, methionine, threonine, valine; tional support can be better achieved with the concomi- sodium bicarbonate, thiamine, carnitine, coenzyme Q, tant use of anakinra. vitamin C, antibiotics are the basis of the metabolic con- We emphasize that patients with MMA are extremely trol
