Maggio et al. Italian Journal of Pediatrics (2025) 51:202 Italian Journal of Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: metabolic, patients, mis-c, pmid, disease, org, doi, doi org, https, https doi, covid-, infection, imd, pmcid, mma


concomi- sodium bicarbonate, thiamine, carnitine, coenzyme Q, tant use of anakinra. vitamin C, antibiotics are the basis of the metabolic con- We emphasize that patients with MMA are extremely trol in acute illness. complex to manage and have a very high and not always With the advent of biologic disease-modifying anti- predictable risk of acute metabolic decompensation. rheumatic drugs in rheumatic diseases, children are Therefore, it is necessary that they are managed at spe- expected to increase the frequency of common infections cialized centres with great expertise in the field of IMD, and the risk of serious and opportunistic infections. In because the risk of death is very high in case of severe a multicentric study, the “Pharmacovigilance in Juvenile infections. Idiopathic Arthritis patients” (Pharmachild), a significant Abbreviations opportunistic infection rate was documented, especially MMA Methylmalonic academia for herpes simplex, tuberculosis and Candida Albicans MIS-C Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children SARS-CoV-2 Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 . In our child Candida Albicans and Methicillin- IMD Inherited metabolic diseases resistant Staphylococcus Aureus sepsis occurred and CRP C-reactive protein required the withdrawal of anakinra treatment. IL Interleukin -6 NT-pro-BNP N-terminal fragment of the pro brain natriuretic Further studies are needed to define the appropriate- peptide ness and safety of therapy with anakinra in Candida Albi- MOF Multiorgan failure cans sepsis, a lethal complication the patient suffered CDC Disease Control and Prevention ESR Erythrocyte sedimentation rate from prolonged venous catheterization and the high risk KD Kawasaki Disease of infections, due to the underlying metabolic disease. ENS Extended Newborn Screening Finally, no less important is the need for adequate genetic CAL Coronary artery lesions LSD Lysosomal storage diseases counseling for families of children with IMD, with ade- HMG-CoA 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A lyase quate information on the risk of recurrence and the deficiency medium and long-term prognosis . LCHAD Long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency Severe infections, such as COVID-19, can act as a NPC Niemann Pick type C trigger in patients with IMD. Moreover, SARS-CoV-2 NPB Niemann Pick disease type B infection can induce MIS-C, a further factor triggering VLADD Very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency metabolic decompensation of these children. Despite HMG‐CoA lyase deficiency 3 ‐Hydroxy‐3‐methylglutaryl‐CoA lyase deficiency IVIG Intravenous immunoglobulins undergo life-threatening metabolic imbalance. Further Acknowledgements long-term complications include progressive renal fail- Not applicable. ure, metabolic stroke and other neurological symptoms. Only a few cases of patients with IMD and MIS-C Authors’ contributions MCM, GC,
