Maggio et al. Italian Journal of Pediatrics (2025) 51:202 Italian Journal of Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: metabolic, patients, mis-c, pmid, disease, org, doi, doi org, https, https doi, covid-, infection, imd, pmcid, mma


Acknowledgements long-term complications include progressive renal fail- Not applicable. ure, metabolic stroke and other neurological symptoms. Only a few cases of patients with IMD and MIS-C Authors’ contributions MCM, GC, CC, MC: substantial contributions to conception and design, acqui- are described. However, the description of these clini- sition of the data, analysis and interpretation of the data; MCM, CC: drafting cal cases is a valuable lesson for paediatricians who find the article and revising it critically for important intellectual content; VS and themselves managing such therapeutic emergencies. We ADF: organization of data collection. All the authors: final approval of the version to be published. All named authors have agreed to its submission. This must, however, consider that immuno-naïve patients, article is not currently being considered for publication by another journal. such as the patient described, may go on to more severe SARS-CoV-2 infection, with a higher risk of metabolic Funding All the authors declare that no financial assistance was received in support of decompensation, despite employed treatment. Therefore, the study. it is a key message to emphasize that preventive meas- ures such as hygiene, social distancing, and vaccination Data availability The datasets used and/or analysed during the current study are available from should be considered as part of standard care in patients the corresponding author on reasonable request. with IMD and recommended as in any other infectious disease (e.g., Declarations influenza). Anakinra should, however, be considered a safe treatment of choice in patients with IMD and Ethics approval and consent to participate All methods were performed in accordance with the ethical standards as laid MIS-C. Timely use of anakinra therapy in patients with down in the Declaration of Helsinki and its later amendments or compara- a severe form of MMA is safe and can be employed to ble ethical standards. The approval by ethics committee was not applicable follow-up of these patients and by a good clinical practice for children with cal improvement. Therefore, resolution of MOF, second- MIS-C. No experimental drugs were employed, and no blood samples, other ary to cytokine storm, typical of MIS-C, and the ability to than all required in consideration of the standards of care, were done. Written informed consent was obtained from a parent and/or legal guardian. The guidelines of Italian Society of Pediatrics, part II - treatment of resistant parents wrote the informed consent on ethics approval and consent. The forms and cardiovascular
