Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


ABSTRACT While lifestyle changes such as dietary modification and increased physical activity can be very effective in improving glycemic control, over the long-term most individuals with Type 2 diabetes (T2DM) will require medications to achieve and maintain glycemic control. The purpose of this chapter is to provide the healthcare practitioner with an overview of the existing oral and injectable (non-insulin) pharmacological options available for the treatment of patients with T2DM. Currently, there are ten classes of orally available pharmacological agents to treat T2DM: 1) sulfonylureas, 2) meglitinides, 3) metformin (a biguanide), 4) thiazolidinediones (TZDs), 5) alpha glucosidase inhibitors, 6) dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP-4) inhibitors, 7) bile acid sequestrants, 8) dopamine agonists, 9) sodium-glucose transport protein 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors and 10) oral glucagon like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists. In addition, glucagon like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists, dual GLP-1 receptor and GIP receptor agonists, and pramlintide can be administered by injection. Medications from these distinct classes of pharmaceutical agents may be used as treatment by themselves (monotherapy) or in a combination of 2 or more drugs from multiple classes with different mechanisms of action. A variety of fixed combinations of 2 agents are available in the US and in many other countries. In this chapter we discuss the administration, mechanism of action, effect on glycemic control, other benefits, side effects, and the contraindications of the use of these glucose lowering drugs. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION While lifestyle changes such as dietary modification and increased physical activity can be very effective in improving glycemic control, over the long-term most individuals with Type 2 diabetes (T2DM ) will require medications to achieve and maintain glycemic control ( 1 ). The purpose of this chapter is to provide the healthcare practitioner with detailed information on the existing oral and injectable (non-insulin) pharmacological options available for the treatment of patients with T2DM. The use of these drugs to treat diabetes during pregnancy, in children and adolescents, and for the prevention of diabetes are discussed in other Endotext chapters (2-5). For information on the management of T2DM and selecting amongst the available pharmacological agents see the chapter by Emily Schroeder in Endotext ( 6 ). Currently, there are ten classes of orally available pharmacological agents to treat T2DM: 1) sulfonylureas (SU), 2) meglitinides, 3) metformin (a biguanide), 4) thiazolidinediones (TZDs), 5)
