Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


Endotext ( 6 ). Currently, there are ten classes of orally available pharmacological agents to treat T2DM: 1) sulfonylureas (SU), 2) meglitinides, 3) metformin (a biguanide), 4) thiazolidinediones (TZDs), 5) alpha glucosidase inhibitors, 6) dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP-4) inhibitors, 7) bile acid sequestrants, 8) dopamine agonists, 9) sodium-glucose transport protein 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors and 10) oral glucagon like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists ( 6 - 8 ). In addition, glucagon like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists, dual GLP-1 receptor and GIP receptor agonists, and pramlintide can be administered by injection ( 6 - 8 ). Medications from these distinct classes of pharmaceutical agents may be used as treatment by themselves (monotherapy) or in a combination of 2 or more drugs from multiple classes with different mechanisms of action ( 7 - 9 ). A variety of fixed combinations of 2 agents are available in the US and in many other countries. There are even combinations that contains 3 drugs (Qternmet XR which contains dapagliflozin, saxagliptin, and metformin and Trijardy XR which contains empagliflozin, linagliptin, and metformin). Additionally, there are combinations of GLP-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs) and insulin. These combination products may be useful and attractive to the patient, as they provide multiple drugs in a single tablet or injection, offering convenience and increased compliance. In the US, they also enable patients to receive two medications for a single medical insurance co-payment. Most importantly, the addition of a second drug results in an additive improvement in glycemic control. When a patient is on drug A if drug B is added to drug A, there is an improvement in glycemic control. This concept can be extended by the addition of a third drug C, and even a fourth drug D ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Efficacy When Oral Agents are Used as Add-On Therapy. When a patient is on drug A and they are changed to drug B, C, or D, often no improvement in glucose control will be seen. However, if drug B is added to drug A, there is an improvement. This concept can often be extended by the addition of a third drug ©, or even a fourth drug (D). There is decreasing benefit for each additional drug as the baseline A1c level decreases. Note that there is limited data on the use of 4 drug combinations. OVERVIEW OF DRUGS There are a number of different
