Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


additional drug as the baseline A1c level decreases. Note that there is limited data on the use of 4 drug combinations. OVERVIEW OF DRUGS There are a number of different abnormalities that contribute to the hyperglycemia that occurs in patients with T2DM ( 10 ). Therefore, the drugs used to treat patients with T2DM can have a number of different mechanisms by which they lower glucose levels. Figure 2 shows the various sites of action of the pharmacological therapies for the treatment of T2DM. Figure 2. Sites of Action of Pharmacological Therapies for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes. A broad overview of the most commonly used drugs to treat T2DM is shown in Table 1 and the effect of drugs on blood lipid levels is shown in Table 2 . Table 1. Benefits and Side Effects of Commonly Used Drugs View in own window Drugs Ability to Lower Glucose Risk of Hypoglycemia Weight Change Effect on ASCVD Effect on Heart Failure Effect on Renal Disease 2 nd Generation SU High Yes Increase Neutral Neutral Neutral Metformin High No Neutral- modest weight loss Potential Benefit Neutral Neutral TZDs High No Increase Potential Benefit (Pioglitazone) Increased Neutral DPP-4 inhibitors Intermediate No Neutral Neutral Potential Increase (saxagliptin and alogliptin) Neutral SGLT2 inhibitors Immediate No Decrease Potential Benefit Benefit Benefit- Reduced progression of renal failure GLP-1 receptor agonists High No Decrease Benefit Benefit Benefit- Reduced progression of renal failure ASCVD= atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Table 2. Effect of Glucose Lowering Drugs on Lipid Levels* View in own window Metformin Modestly decrease triglycerides and LDL-C Sulfonylureas No effect DPP4 inhibitors Decrease postprandial triglycerides GLP-1 receptor agonists Decrease fasting and postprandial triglycerides Acarbose Decrease postprandial triglycerides Pioglitazone Rosiglitazone Decrease triglycerides and increase HDL-C. Small increase LDL-C but a decrease in small dense LDL SGLT2 inhibitors Small increase in LDL-C and HDL-C Colesevelam Decrease LDL-C. May increase triglycerides Bromocriptine-QR Decrease triglycerides Insulin No effect * These effects are beyond benefits of glucose lowering and weight loss. Bloomgarden et al reported results from a meta-regression analysis of 61 clinical trials evaluating the efficacy of the five major classes of oral anti-hyperglycemic agents ( 11 ). The results demonstrated that there is a strong direct correlation between baseline A1c level and the magnitude of the decrease in fasting glucose and A1c induced by these drugs (i.e., significantly greater reductions in both fasting plasma glucose and A1c were observed in
