Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


level and the magnitude of the decrease in fasting glucose and A1c induced by these drugs (i.e., significantly greater reductions in both fasting plasma glucose and A1c were observed in groups with higher baseline A1c levels). Thus, expectations for the overall magnitude of effect from a given agent might be modest when treating patients whose baseline A1c is <7.5-8.0% while in patients with elevated A1c levels the effect of drug therapy may be more robust ( figure 3 ). A separate meta-analysis of 59 clinical studies reached similar conclusions ( 12 ). These results indicate that comparing efficacies among different anti-diabetic medications is challenging, when the baseline HbA1c is different in the studies being compared. Additionally, the population of patients studied can impact the efficacy of a particular class of drug. For example, patients with limited beta cell function will have a decreased response to sulfonylurea drugs as these agents work via stimulating insulin secretion by the beta cells while TZDs are most effective in patients with insulin resistance. Another example would be the decrease in efficacy of SGLT2 inhibitors lowering A1c levels in patients with decreased renal function. A recent trial demonstrated that in individuals with a BMI > 30 pioglitazone reduced HbA1c levels better than sitagliptin while in individuals with a BMI < 30 sitagliptin was more effective ( 13 ). In individuals with an eGFR > 90 canagliflozin lowered HbA1c better than sitagliptin while in individuals with an eGFR between 60-90 sitagliptin was more effective ( 13 ). These results demonstrate that certain patient characteristics will influence the response to treatment with specific drugs indicating the ability to target drug therapy for the specific patient. Investigators are developing models to predict the efficacy of DPP-4 inhibitors, GLP-1 RAs, SGLT-2 inhibitors, sulfonylureas, and thiazolidinediones to lower HbA1c levels using widely available clinical features (age, duration of diabetes, sex, baseline HbA1c, BMI, estimated glomerular filtration rate, HDL cholesterol, total cholesterol, and alanine aminotransferase) to facilitate therapy ( 14 ). Additionally, the variation in response of patients makes it difficult to compare the glucose lowering effects of different hypoglycemic drugs except in direct head-to-head comparison studies. Figure 3. Relationship between baseline A1c level and the observed reduction in A1c with oral anti-hyperglycemic medications. Irrespective of drug class, the baseline glycemic control markedly influences the overall magnitude of efficacy. Data from Bloomgarden et al, Table 1 ( 11 ). A model-based
