Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


meglitinides because they lower glucose levels by a similar mechanism of action ( 20 , 22 ). Key characteristics of the different sulfonylureas are shown in Table 4 ( 20 ). Of clinical importance is the duration of action, which varies with the rate of hepatic metabolism and the hypoglycemic activity of drug metabolites. Drugs with a long duration of action are more likely to cause severe and prolonged hypoglycemia whereas short acting drugs need to be given multiple times per day ( 20 ). Additionally, drugs that are metabolized to active agents (for example glyburide) are also more likely to cause hypoglycemia ( 20 ). Most sulfonylureas are metabolized in the liver and are to some extent excreted by the kidney; therefore, hepatic and/or renal impairment increases the risk of hypoglycemia ( 20 ). Table 4. Key Characteristics of Sulfonylureas View in own window Drug Duration of action Metabolites Excretion Tolbutamide 6–12 h Inactive Kidney Chlorpropamide 60 h Active or unchanged Kidney Tolazamide 12–24 h Inactive Kidney Glipizide 12–24 h Inactive Kidney 80% Feces 20% Glipizide ER >24 h Inactive Kidney 80% Feces 20% Glyburide 16–24 h Inactive or weakly active Kidney 50% Micronized glyburide 12-24 h Inactive or weakly active Kidney 50% Feces 50% Glimepiride 24 h Inactive or weakly active Kidney 60% Feces 40% Administration Sulfonylureas should be taken 30 minutes before meals starting with a low dose with an increase in dosage until desired glycemic control has been achieved. In patients with a high risk of severe hypoglycemia a very low dose can be the initial therapy while in patients with very high A1c levels one can initiate therapy at a higher dose. The recommended starting dose of glipizide is 5 mg approximately 30 minutes before breakfast. Geriatric patients or those with liver or renal disease or other risk factors for severe hypoglycemia can be started at 2.5 mg. Patients with very high A1c levels may be started on a higher dose. Based on the glucose response the dose can be increased weekly by 2.5-5 mg. If a once-a-day dose is not satisfactory or the patient requires more than 15 mg per day one can give the drug before breakfast and dinner. The maximum daily dose is 40 mg per day. The usual starting dose of extended-release glipizide is 5 mg per day with breakfast. Those patients who are at high risk of hypoglycemia may be
