Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


is 40 mg per day. The usual starting dose of extended-release glipizide is 5 mg per day with breakfast. Those patients who are at high risk of hypoglycemia may be started at a lower dose. The dose can be increased based on glucose or A1c measurements. The maximum dose is 20 mg per day. The usual starting dose of glyburide is 2.5 to 5 mg daily with breakfast or the first main meal. Patients at high risk for hypoglycemia should be started on 1.25 mg per day. The dose should be increased weekly by 2.5 mg based on the glucose response. The maximum dose per day is 20 mg. The usual starting dose of micronized glyburide is 1.5 to 3 mg daily with breakfast or the first main meal. Patients at high risk for hypoglycemia should be started on 0.75 mg per day. The dose should be increased weekly by 1.5 mg based on the glucose response. The maximum dose per day is 12 mg per day. The recommended starting dose of glimepiride is 1 or 2 mg once daily. Patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia should start on 1 mg once daily. The dose should be increased every 1-2 weeks in increments of 1 or 2 mg based upon the patient’s glycemic response. The maximum dose is 8 mg per day. The recommended starting dose of gliclazide is 40 - 80mg once daily. Patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia should start on 40 mg once daily. The dose should be increased every 1-2 weeks in increments of 40 or 80 mg based upon the patient’s glycemic response. The maximum dose is 160mg twice a day. Mechanism of Action Sulfonylureas are insulin secretagogues and lower blood glucose levels by directly stimulating glucose independent insulin secretion by the pancreatic beta cells ( 20 , 22 ). Through the concerted efforts of GLUT2 (the high Km glucose transporter), glucokinase (the enzyme that phosphorylates glucose), and glucose metabolism, pancreatic beta cells sense blood glucose levels and secrete the appropriate amount of insulin in response ( 23 , 24 ). Glucose metabolism leads to ATP generation and increases the intracellular ratio of ATP/ADP, which results in the closure of the ATP-sensitive potassium channel on the plasma membrane ( 20 , 23 , 25 ). Closure of this channel depolarizes the membrane and triggers the opening of voltage-sensitive calcium channels, leading to the rapid influx
