Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


the plasma membrane ( 20 , 23 , 25 ). Closure of this channel depolarizes the membrane and triggers the opening of voltage-sensitive calcium channels, leading to the rapid influx of calcium ( 20 , 26 ). Increased intracellular calcium causes an alteration in the cytoskeleton and stimulates translocation of insulin-containing secretory granules to the plasma membrane and the secretion of insulin ( Figure 4 ) ( 20 ). Figure 4. Mechanisms by which glucose, sulfonylureas, and meglitinides stimulate insulin secretion by the beta cells. The KATP channel is comprised of two subunits, both of which are required for the channel to be functional ( 26 ). One subunit contains the cytoplasmic binding sites for both sulfonylureas and ATP and is designated as the sulfonylurea receptor type 1 (SUR1). The other subunit is the potassium channel, which acts as the pore-forming subunit ( 26 ). Either an increase in the ATP/ADP ratio or ligand binding by sulfonylureas or meglitinides to SUR1 results in the closure of the KATP channel and insulin secretion ( 21 , 26 ). Studies comparing sulfonylureas and non-sulfonylurea insulin secretagogues have identified several distinct binding sites on the SUR1 that cause channel closure. Some sites exhibit high affinity for sulfonylureas, while other sites exhibit high affinity for meglitinides. In addition to binding to SUR1, sulfonylureas also bind to Epac2, a protein activated by cAMP ( 20 ). Sulfonylurea-stimulated insulin secretion was reduced both in vitro and in vivo in mice lacking Epac2, indicating that Epac2 also plays a role in sulfonylurea induced insulin secretion ( 27 ). In addition to inducing insulin secretion sulfonylureas have other effects that could play a role in lowering blood glucose levels ( 20 ). Specifically, sulfonylureas have been shown to decrease hepatic insulin clearance, inhibit glucagon secretion from pancreatic alpha-cells (this may be secondary to increasing insulin secretion), and enhance insulin sensitivity in peripheral tissues (this may be partially due to lowering glucose levels and reducing glucotoxicity) ( 20 ). The contribution and importance of these additional effects in mediating the glucose lowering effects of sulfonylureas is uncertain. Glycemic Efficacy When used at maximally effective doses, results from well-controlled clinical trials have not indicated a marked superiority of one 2 nd generation sulfonylurea over another in improving glycemic control ( 28 ). Similarly, 2 nd generation sulfonylureas exhibit similar clinical efficacy compared to the 1 st generation agents ( 28
