Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


nd generation sulfonylurea over another in improving glycemic control ( 28 ). Similarly, 2 nd generation sulfonylureas exhibit similar clinical efficacy compared to the 1 st generation agents ( 28 ). Sulfonylureas do not have a linear dose-response relationship and the majority of the A1C reduction occurs at half maximum dosage. The effect of sulfonylureas as monotherapy or when added to metformin therapy on A1c levels varies but typically results in reductions in A1c of approximately 0.50-1.5% ( 15 , 21 , 22 , 29 , 30 ). If A1c levels are very high decreases in the range of 1.5- 2.0% may be seen ( 21 , 22 , 28 ). Patients with a short duration of diabetes with residual beta cell function (high C-peptide levels) are likely to be most responsive to sulfonylurea therapy ( 28 ). Overtime many patients on sulfonylureas require additional therapies (secondary failure). In the ADOPT study, after 5 years 34% of the patients on glyburide monotherapy had fasting glucose levels > 180 mg/dl (i.e., secondary failure) ( 31 ). Similarly, in the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS), only 34% of patients attained an A1c <7% at 6 years treated with sulfonylureas (glyburide or chlorpropamide) and this number declined to 24% at 9 years ( 20 ). This lack of durability of sulfonylurea therapy is likely to be due to beta cell exhaustion. In addition, the weight gain induced by sulfonylurea therapy may also adversely affect glycemic control. The results of the GRADE study, which compared glargine insulin, glimepiride, liraglutide, and sitagliptin added to metformin, were discussed earlier in the section entitled “OVERVIEW OF DRUGS”. Other Effects CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE Based on the University Group Diabetes Project (UGDP) sulfonylureas carry a “black box” warning regarding cardiovascular disease ( 32 , 33 ). However, the U.K. Prospective Diabetes Study Group (UKPDS) studied a large number of newly diagnosed patients with T2DM at risk for cardiovascular disease. In this study improved glycemic control with sulfonylureas reduced cardiovascular disease by approximately 16%, which just missed being statistically significant (p=0.052) ( 34 ). In the UKPDS, A1c was reduced by approximately 0.9% and the 16% reduction in cardiovascular disease was in the range predicted based on epidemiological studies. Thus, the reduction in cardiovascular events was likely due to improvements in glycemic control and not a direct benefit of sulfonylurea treatment. In support of this conjecture is that in the
