Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


the reduction in cardiovascular events was likely due to improvements in glycemic control and not a direct benefit of sulfonylurea treatment. In support of this conjecture is that in the UKPDS, insulin treatment resulted in a similar decrease in A1c levels and reduction in cardiovascular events ( 34 ). Additionally, a large randomized cardiovascular outcome study (Carolina Study) reported that linagliptin, a DPP-4 inhibitor, and glimepiride, a sulfonylurea, had similar effects on cardiovascular events (hazard ratio 0.98) ( 35 ). Taken together these results suggest that sulfonylureas have a neutral effect on cardiovascular disease. Side Effects HYPOGLYCEMIA The major side effect of sulfonylurea treatment is hypoglycemia, which is more likely to occur and is more severe with long- acting sulfonylureas ( 20 , 21 ). In the UKPDS severe hypoglycemia, defined by need for third-party assistance, occurred each year in 0.4–0.6/100 patients treated with a sulfonylurea while non-severe hypoglycemia was seen in 7.9/100 persons treated with a sulfonylurea ( 36 ). Other studies have found even higher rates of severe hypoglycemia with 20–40% of patients receiving sulfonylureas having hypoglycemia and severe hypoglycemia (requiring third-party assistance) occurring in 1–7% of patients ( 22 , 36 ). With continuous glucose monitoring 30% of well controlled patients with T2DM had episodes of hypoglycemia that were often asymptomatic and nocturnal ( 37 ). Of great concern these hypoglycemic events were associated with EKG changes, particularly QTc prolongation ( 37 ). Other studies have also observed a very high rate of hypoglycemia in patients with T2DM treated with sulfonylureas when monitored using continuous glucose monitoring ( 38 ). Hypoglycemia typically occurs after periods of fasting or exercise. In light of this hypoglycemic risk, initiation of treatment with sulfonylureas should be at the lowest recommended dose and the dose slowly increased in patients with modestly elevated A1c levels. Older patients (> age 65) and patients with hepatic or renal disease are more likely to experience frequent and severe hypoglycemic reactions, particularly if the goals of therapy aim for inappropriately tight glycemic control ( 20 ). Many clinicians avoid the use of long acting sulfonylureas (glyburide) in these high-risk patients as glyburide has a higher risk of hypoglycemia compared to other sulfonylureas ( 39 ). WEIGHT GAIN In the UKPDS, sulfonylurea treatment caused a net weight gain of approximately 3 kg, which occurred during the first 3-4 years of treatment and then stabilized ( 21 , 34
