Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


In the UKPDS, sulfonylurea treatment caused a net weight gain of approximately 3 kg, which occurred during the first 3-4 years of treatment and then stabilized ( 21 , 34 ). Other studies have similarly observed weight gain with sulfonylurea treatment ( 28 ). FIRST GENERATION SIDE EFFECTS Chlorpropamide can induce hyponatremia and water retention due to inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (ADH) ( 20 ). In addition, tolbutamide and chlorpropamide, in certain susceptible individuals, is associated with alcohol-induced flushing ( 20 ). Because of an increased risk of side effects 1 st generation sulfonylureas are seldom used. RARE SIDE EFFECTS Intrahepatic cholestasis and allergic skin reactions, including photosensitivity and erythroderma may rarely occur (Package insert). Contraindications and Drug Interactions Sulfonylureas are best avoided in patients with a sulfa allergy who experienced prior severe allergic reactions (Package insert). Otherwise, cross-reactivity between antibacterial and nonantibacterial sulfonamide agents is rare. In renal failure, the dose of the sulfonylurea agent will require adjustment based on glucose monitoring to avoid hypoglycemia ( 20 ). Because it is metabolized primarily in the liver without the formation of active metabolites, glipizide is the preferred sulfonylurea in patients with renal disease ( 40 ). In the elderly, long acting sulfonylureas, such as glyburide, glimepiride and chlorpropamide are not recommended ( 41 ). Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency and therefore should be used with caution in such patients (Package insert). Certain drugs may enhance the glucose-lowering effects of sulfonylureas by inhibition of their hepatic metabolism (antifungals and monoamine oxidase inhibitors), displacing them from binding to plasma proteins (coumarins, NSAIDs, and sulfonamides), or inhibiting their excretion (probenecid) ( 22 ). Summary While the ability of sulfonylureas to improve glycemic control is robust, the risk of hypoglycemia and weight gain reduce the desirability of this drug class. Additionally, the shorter durability of effectiveness is also a limiting factor. In patients at high risk for the occurrence of severe hypoglycemic reactions or in patients who are obese, using drugs other than sulfonylureas to treat T2DM is indicated if possible. Similarly, in patients with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, heart failure, or at high risk for cardiovascular disease or renal disease other hypoglycemic drugs have important advantages. Nevertheless, because sulfonylureas are generic drugs and very inexpensive, they continue to be used and play a role in the management of patients with T2DM. Table 5. Summary of
