Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


advantages. Nevertheless, because sulfonylureas are generic drugs and very inexpensive, they continue to be used and play a role in the management of patients with T2DM. Table 5. Summary of the Advantages and Disadvantages of Sulfonylureas View in own window Advantages Disadvantages Inexpensive Hypoglycemia Rapid acting Weight gain Once a day administration possible Limited durability Long history of use Need to titrate dose MEGLINATIDES Introduction The meglitinides are non-sulfonylurea insulin secretagogues characterized by a very rapid onset and abbreviated duration of action ( 22 , 42 ). Repaglinide (Prandin), a benzoic acid derivative introduced in 1998, was the first member of the meglitinide class. Nateglinide (Starlix) is a derivative of the amino acid D-phenylalanine and was introduced to the market in 2001. Unlike sulfonylureas, repaglinide and nateglinide stimulation of insulin secretion is dependent on the presence of glucose ( 42 , 43 ). As glucose levels decrease, insulin secretion decreases, which reduces the risk of hypoglycemia compared with sulfonylureas. Meglitinides are rapidly absorbed with maximum serum concentrations generally attained within 1 hour and then quickly metabolized by the liver cytochrome CYP3A4 and CYP2C8 pathways, producing inactive metabolites, resulting in a plasma half-life of around 1 h ( 22 ). This rapid onset and short duration of action results in the ability of this class of drugs to predominantly reduce postprandial glucose levels ( 42 ). Because of the rapid onset and short duration of action meglitinides are given 1-30 minutes prior to meals. The drug should not be administered if the patient is going to skip the meal. The pharmacokinetics of meglitinides differ with nateglinide having a faster onset and shorter duration of action than repaglinide ( 43 ). Nateglinide stimulates early insulin release faster and to a greater extent than repaglinide with insulin levels returning to baseline levels more rapidly ( 42 , 43 ). Administration The recommended starting dose of nateglinide is 120 mg three times per day before meals (1-30 minutes). In patients who are near their glycemic goal when treatment is initiated the recommended starting dose of nateglinide is 60 mg three times per day before meals. The maximum dose of nateglinide is 120 mg three times per day before meals. The recommended starting dose of repaglinide for patients whose A1c is less than 8% is 0.5 mg before each meal (1-30 minutes). For patients whose A1c is 8% or greater the starting dose is 1
