Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


repaglinide for patients whose A1c is less than 8% is 0.5 mg before each meal (1-30 minutes). For patients whose A1c is 8% or greater the starting dose is 1 or 2 mg orally before each meal. The patient’s dose should be doubled up to 4mg with each meal until satisfactory glycemic control is achieved (should wait one week between increasing dose). The maximum daily dose is 16 mg per day. Mechanism of Action Meglitinides bind to a different site on SUR1 in β cells that is separate from the sulfonylurea binding site ( Figure 4 ) ( 22 , 42 ). The effect of meglitinide binding is similar to the effect of sulfonylureas with binding resulting in the closure of the KATP channel leading to cell depolarization and calcium influx resulting in insulin secretion ( 22 , 42 , 43 ). However, the relatively rapid onset and short duration of action of meglitinides suits their use as prandial glucose-lowering agents ( 22 , 42 ). Glycemic Efficacy Studies have shown that A1c reductions are similar to, or slightly less, than those observed with sulfonylurea or metformin treatment when meglitinides are used as monotherapy ( 22 , 42 ). In studies comparing repaglinide monotherapy with sulfonylurea or metformin therapy the decrease in A1c was similar ( 42 , 44 ). In contrast, a study comparing nateglinide with metformin demonstrated that metformin was more effective in lowering A1c levels ( 45 ). In a randomized trial comparing repaglinide and nateglinide in patients with T2DM previously treated with diet and exercise, repaglinide was more effective in lowering A1c levels (1.57% vs. 1.04%) ( 46 ). While postprandial glucose levels were similar repaglinide was more effective in reducing fasting glucose levels, probably due to its longer duration of action. These clinical findings can be incorporated into clinical decision making. For example, if the main issue for the patient is postprandial hyperglycemia, and fasting glucoses are near normal, an agent, such as nateglinide, that has a limited effect on the fasting glucose would be ideal. However, if one needs reductions in both fasting and postprandial glucose levels a longer acting agent such as repaglinide is a better choice. Other Effects CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE The Navigator study was a double-blind, randomized clinical trial in 9,306 individuals with impaired glucose tolerance and either cardiovascular disease or cardiovascular risk factors who received nateglinide (up to 60 mg three
