Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


study was a double-blind, randomized clinical trial in 9,306 individuals with impaired glucose tolerance and either cardiovascular disease or cardiovascular risk factors who received nateglinide (up to 60 mg three times daily) or placebo ( 47 ). After 5 years, nateglinide administration did not alter the incidence of cardiovascular outcomes suggesting that meglitinides do not have adverse or beneficial cardiovascular effects. The effect of meglitinides on cardiovascular disease has not been studied in patients with T2DM. Side Effects Similar to sulfonylureas, meglitinides can cause hypoglycemia but the risk of severe hypoglycemia is less ( 22 , 42 , 44 ). The incidence of hypoglycemia is lower with nateglinide than repaglinide and nateglinide is less likely to cause severe hypoglycemia ( 22 ). In one study, the occurrence of symptomatic hypoglycemia was 2% for nateglinide and 7% for repaglinide ( 43 ). Weight gain is also a common side effect of meglitinides (approximately 1-3 kg) with nateglinide leading to less weight gain than repaglinide ( 22 , 43 ). Contraindications and Drug Interactions Because meglitinides are metabolized by the liver these drugs should be used cautiously in patients with impaired liver function (Package insert). Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 (for example ketoconazole, itraconazole and erythromycin) or CYP2C8 (for example trimethoprim, gemfibrozil and montelukast) can result in the increased activity of meglitinides enhancing the risk of hypoglycemia and should be avoided if possible ( 44 ). Summary Meglitinides can be useful drugs when there is a need to specifically lower postprandial glucose levels (i.e., patients with fasting glucose in desired range but elevated post meal glucose levels). Additionally, because of their short duration of action meglitinides can be useful in patients who eat erratically as this class of drugs can be given only before meals and the duration of action will match the postprandial increase in glucose. The risk of severe hypoglycemia and weight gain is less than sulfonylureas but still must be considered in patients treated with meglitinides. The development of drugs that do not cause weight gain or severe hypoglycemia and lower postprandial glucose levels have resulted in the limited use of meglitinides. Table 6. Summary of the Advantages and Disadvantages of Meglitinides View in own window Advantages Disadvantages Decrease postprandial glucose Hypoglycemia Flexible dosing Weight gain Short action allowing for missing meals Frequent dosing Need to titrate dose METFORMIN Introduction Metformin (Glucophage) is a synthetic analog of the natural product
