Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


glucose Hypoglycemia Flexible dosing Weight gain Short action allowing for missing meals Frequent dosing Need to titrate dose METFORMIN Introduction Metformin (Glucophage) is a synthetic analog of the natural product guanidine ( 22 ). Since its initial clinical use over 50 years ago, metformin has surpassed the sulfonylureas as the most widely prescribed oral agent for T2DM throughout the world because of its proven efficacy on glycemic control as monotherapy and in combination with many other available agents ( 22 ). The widespread acceptance of metformin evolved after the realization that lactic acidosis was not a major problem in individuals with normal renal function. Phenformin, a structural analog of metformin, was previously withdrawn from the market in many countries due to its propensity to induce lactic acidosis ( 22 ). Administration The usual starting dose of metformin is 500 mg twice a day with meals. After 1-2 weeks the dose can be increased to 1500 mg per day (750 mg twice a day or 500 mg in AM and 1000 mg in PM). After another 1-2 weeks the dose can be increased to 1000 mg twice a day. The slow increase in dosage is to reduce GI side effects, and the dose should not be increased if GI side effects are occurring. The maximum dose is 2550 mg per day which can be given as 850 mg three times per day with meals, but most patients are treated with 1000 mg twice a day with breakfast and dinner. The usual starting dose of metformin extended release is 500 mg with the evening meal (largest meal). The dose can be increased by 500 mg weekly depending upon tolerability. The maximum dose is 2000 mg with the evening meal. Note the dose of metformin may need to be adjusted based on renal function (discussed below). Metformin should be temporarily discontinued when patients are unable to eat or drink. Metformin is seldom used in hospitalized patients. Mechanism of Action Metformin decreases hepatic glucose production and improves hepatic insulin sensitivity but has only a modest impact on peripheral insulin-mediated glucose uptake (i.e., insulin resistance), which is likely due to a reduction in hyperglycemia, triglycerides, and free fatty acid levels ( 48 , 49 ). Hyperinsulinemia is reduced and the decrease in hepatic glucose production results in a decrease in fasting glucose levels ( 22 ). In addition, metformin also increases intestinal glucose utilization and
