Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


Hyperinsulinemia is reduced and the decrease in hepatic glucose production results in a decrease in fasting glucose levels ( 22 ). In addition, metformin also increases intestinal glucose utilization and stimulates GLP-1 secretion ( 48 , 49 ). Insulin secretion is not increased ( 22 ). The cellular and molecular mechanisms that account for these changes are not definitively understood. LIVER There are several lines of evidence indicating that the liver plays an important role in metformin’s ability to improve glycemic control ( 48 ). In humans and rodents, metformin is concentrated in the liver and blocking the uptake of metformin into the liver in mice prevents the ability of metformin to lower blood glucose levels ( 48 , 49 ). As noted above tracer studies in humans show that metformin lowers hepatic glucose production and increases hepatic insulin sensitivity ( 48 ). There are a number of proposed mechanisms by which metformin alters hepatic metabolism ( 48 ). Metformin inhibits mitochondrial ATP production by inhibition of Complex I of the respiratory chain and/or inhibiting mitochondrial glycerophosphate dehydrogenase, which is required to carry reducing equivalents from the cytoplasm into the mitochondria for re-oxidation ( 48 , 49 ). The decrease in ATP production could decrease hepatic gluconeogenesis ( 49 ). This also leads to an increase in AMP. Metformin increases hepatic AMP levels and AMP is a potent allosteric inhibitor of fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase, a key enzyme in gluconeogenesis ( 49 ). In addition, high AMP levels inhibit adenylate cyclase reducing cyclic AMP formation in response to glucagon, which also decreases glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis (i.e., decreases glucagon activity) ( 49 ). The increase in AMP also activates AMP-activated protein kinase. Metformin activates AMP-activated protein kinase, which activates catabolic pathways leading to decreased gluconeogenesis, decreased fatty acid synthesis, and increased fatty acid oxidation ( 48 , 49 ). The changes in fatty acid metabolism are thought to account for the improvement in hepatic insulin sensitivity and the decrease in serum triglyceride levels ( 48 ). Metformin inhibits glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase increasing the cytosolic redox state resulting in a decreased conversion of glycerol and lactate to glucose ( 50 ). INTESTINE Several lines of evidence indicate that the intestine plays an important role in explaining metformin’s ability to lower blood glucose levels. First, a decrease in hepatic glucose production can only partially account for the decrease in blood glucose ( 48 ). Second, in
