Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


explaining metformin’s ability to lower blood glucose levels. First, a decrease in hepatic glucose production can only partially account for the decrease in blood glucose ( 48 ). Second, in humans with loss-of-function variants in SLC22A1, which decrease the uptake of metformin into the liver, the ability of metformin to lower A1c levels is not impaired ( 48 ). Finally, a delayed-release metformin that is retained in the gut, with minimal systemic absorption, is as effective at lowering blood glucose as the standard metformin formulation in patients with T2DM ( 48 , 51 ). There are a number of proposed mechanisms for how the intestine accounts for the beneficial effects of metformin. Metformin increases anaerobic glucose metabolism in the intestine resulting in increased intestinal glucose utilization and decreased glucose uptake into the circulation ( 48 ). This is likely due to the inhibition of mitochondrial ATP production described above. The increased utilization of glucose by anaerobic metabolism could contribute to metformin induced weight loss. Metformin increases GLP-1 secretion, which could increase insulin secretion and decrease glucagon secretion ( 48 ). The increase in GLP-1 could also contribute to the weight loss or weight neutral effects of metformin. Metformin alters the intestinal microbiome, which could alter glucose metabolism ( 48 , 52 ). It is clear that there are multiple potential mechanisms by which metformin can improve glucose metabolism and further studies are required to elucidate the relative importance and contribution of these proposed mechanisms and others yet to be identified. Glycemic Efficacy Metformin is often used as the initial therapy in patients with diabetes in conjunction with lifestyle changes ( 7 , 8 ). The typical reduction in A1c with metformin therapy is in the range of 1 to 2.0% ( 22 , 53 ). The decrease in A1c induced by metformin is independent of age, weight, and diabetes duration as long as some residual β-cell function remains ( 22 ). One retrospective study has reported that African-Americans have a greater decrease in A1c with metformin compared to Caucasians ( 54 ). The effect of immediate release and extended release metformin on A1c levels is similar ( 55 ). In head-to-head trials, metformin has been shown to produce equivalent reductions in A1c as sulfonylureas and thiazolidinediones but is more potent than DPP-4 inhibitors ( 53 ). The durability of glycemic control with metformin is more prolonged than with sulfonylureas but
