Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


in A1c as sulfonylureas and thiazolidinediones but is more potent than DPP-4 inhibitors ( 53 ). The durability of glycemic control with metformin is more prolonged than with sulfonylureas but shorter than with TZDs ( 31 ). After 5 years of monotherapy, 15% of individuals on rosiglitazone therapy, 21% of individuals on metformin therapy, and 34% of individuals on glyburide (glibenclamide) therapy had fasting glucose levels above the acceptable range ( 31 ). The ability to maintain an A1c <7% was 57 months with rosiglitazone, 45 months with metformin, and 33 months with glyburide (glibenclamide) ( 31 ). In addition to the ability to improve glycemic control in monotherapy, metformin in combination with sulfonylureas, meglinitides, TZDs, DPP-4 inhibitors, SGLT-2 inhibitors, insulin, and GLP-1 RAs lowers A1c levels and often allows for patients to achieve their A1c goals ( 53 ). There are a large number of combination tablets that include metformin with other glucose lowering drugs. Hypoglycemia does not occur with metformin monotherapy ( 53 ). Hypoglycemia may occur with metformin during concomitant use with other glucose-lowering agents such as sulfonylureas and insulin. Other Effects WEIGHT Metformin is weight neutral or can sometimes result in a modest weight loss (up to 4 kg) ( 53 ). When used in combination with sulfonylureas or insulin it blunts the weight gain induced by these agents. LIPIDS Metformin decreases serum triglyceride levels and LDL-C levels without altering HDL-C ( 56 , 57 ). In a meta-analysis of 37 trials with 2,891 patients, metformin decreased triglycerides by 11.4mg/dl when compared with control treatment (p=0.003) ( 56 ). In an analysis of 24 trials with 1,867 patients, metformin decreased LDL-C by 8.4mg/dl compared to control treatment (p<0.001) ( 56 ). In contrast, metformin did not significantly alter HDL-C levels ( 56 ). It should be noted that in the Diabetes Prevention Program 3,234 individuals with impaired glucose metabolism were randomized to placebo, intensive lifestyle, or metformin therapy ( 58 ). In the metformin therapy group no significant changes were noted in triglyceride, LDL-C, or HDL-C levels compared to the placebo group. Thus, metformin may have small effects on lipid levels. CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE In the UKPDS, metformin, while producing a similar improvement in glycemic control as insulin or sulfonylureas, markedly reduced cardiovascular disease by approximately 40% ( 59 ). In the ten-year follow-up the patients randomized to metformin in the UKPDS continued to show a reduction
