Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


insulin or sulfonylureas, markedly reduced cardiovascular disease by approximately 40% ( 59 ). In the ten-year follow-up the patients randomized to metformin in the UKPDS continued to show a reduction in MI and all-cause mortality ( 60 ). Two other small randomized controlled trials have also demonstrated cardiovascular benefits with metformin therapy. A study by Kooy et al compared the effect of adding metformin or placebo in overweight or obese patients already on insulin therapy ( 61 ). After a mean follow-up of 4.3 years this study observed a reduction in macrovascular events (HR 0.61 CI- 0.40-0.94, p=0.02), which was partially accounted for by metformin’s beneficial effects on weight. In this study the difference in A1c between the metformin and placebo group was only 0.3%. Hong et al randomized non-obese patients with coronary artery disease to glipizide vs. metformin therapy for three years ( 62 ). A1c levels were similar, but there was a marked reduction in cardiovascular events in the metformin treated group (HR 0.54 CI 0.30- 0.90, p=0.026). These results suggest that metformin may reduce cardiovascular disease and that this effect is not due to improving glucose control. Metformin decreases weight or prevents weight gain and lowers lipid levels and these or other non-glucose effects may account for the beneficial effects on cardiovascular disease. Larger cardiovascular outcome studies are required to definitively demonstrate a beneficial effect of metformin on cardiovascular disease. POLYCYSTIC OVARY SYNDROME (PCOS) In patients with PCOS metformin lowers serum androgen levels, increases ovulations, and improves menstrual frequency ( 63 ). Metformin may also be associated with weight loss in some women with PCOS ( 63 ). Metformin combined with clomiphene may be the best combination in obese women with PCOS to improve fertility ( 63 ). For a detailed discussion of the treatment of PCOS see the chapter on polycystic ovary syndrome in Endotext ( 63 ). CANCER Multiple epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between metformin treatment and a reduced cancer incidence and mortality ( 64 , 65 ). Treatment with metformin has been associated with a decreased risk of breast, colon, liver, pancreas, prostate, endometrium and lung cancer and marked reductions in cancer-specific mortality for colon, lung and early-stage prostate cancer and improvements in survival for breast, colon, endometrial, ovarian, liver, lung, prostate and pancreatic cancer ( 64 , 65 ). A wide variety of different mechanisms have been proposed that could account
