Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


in survival for breast, colon, endometrial, ovarian, liver, lung, prostate and pancreatic cancer ( 64 , 65 ). A wide variety of different mechanisms have been proposed that could account for metformin’s anti-tumor effects providing biological plausibility ( 65 ). However, data from large randomized controlled trials have not yet definitively demonstrated whether metformin can prevent the development of cancer or is useful in the treatment of cancer ( 64 - 68 ). Further studies are required to elucidate the potential role of metformin in oncology. OSTEOARTHRITIS A recent randomized controlled trial in non-diabetic patients with a BMI > 25 compared the effect of metformin vs. placebo on knee pain secondary to osteoarthritis ( 69 ). This study reported that after 6 months metformin improved knee pain. Other studies have noted similar benefits of metformin therapy ( 70 , 71 ). Side Effects GASTROINTESTINAL The most common side effects of metformin are diarrhea, nausea, and/or abdominal discomfort, which can occur in up to 50% of patients ( 22 , 53 ). These side effects are usually mild and disappear with continued drug administration. The GI side effects are dose-related and slow titration to allow for tolerance can reduce the occurrence of these symptoms ( 53 ). Administrating metformin three times a day with meals instead of twice a day may also reduce GI side effects. A small number of patients cannot tolerate the drug, even at low doses ( 53 ). Extended-release metformin [metformin XR]) causes fewer GI symptoms and can be used in patients who do not tolerate immediate release metformin ( 53 ). Studies have shown that reduced function of plasma membrane monoamine transporter or organic cation transporter 1 leads to an increase in metformin GI side effects ( 72 , 73 ). Use of drugs that inhibit organic cation transporter 1 activity (including tricyclic antidepressants, citalopram, proton-pump inhibitors, verapamil, diltiazem, doxazosin, spironolactone, clopidogrel, rosiglitazone, quinine, tramadol and codeine) increased intolerance to metformin ( 72 ). LACTIC ACIDOSIS A very rare complication of metformin therapy is lactic acidosis ( 53 ). This complication was much more common with phenformin therapy, the initial biguanide, and the risk with metformin is estimated to be 20 times less ( 53 ). The estimated incidence of metformin-associated lactic acidosis is 3–10 per 100,000 person-years ( 53 ). This is a potentially lethal complication of metformin therapy that typically occurs when renal dysfunction
