Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


The estimated incidence of metformin-associated lactic acidosis is 3–10 per 100,000 person-years ( 53 ). This is a potentially lethal complication of metformin therapy that typically occurs when renal dysfunction results in very high blood metformin levels, which inhibit mitochondrial function resulting in the overproduction of lactate ( 53 ). In addition to renal disorders other risk factors for metformin associated lactic acidosis include sepsis, cardiogenic shock, hepatic impairment, congestive heart failure, and alcoholism ( 53 ). In some circumstances the lactic acidosis observed in patients treated with metformin may not be due to metformin but rather to underlying clinical disorders such as severe sepsis. VITAMIN B12 DEFICIENCY Studies have demonstrated that vitamin B12 malabsorption is a side effect of metformin therapy ( 53 ). A randomized controlled trial showed that metformin 850 mg three times per day for over 4 years resulted in a 19% decrease in B12 levels compared to placebo ( 74 ). Moreover, 9.9% of patients treated with metformin developed vitamin B12 deficiency (<150 pmol/l) vs. only 2.7% in the placebo group ( 74 ). The Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study also demonstrated an increased risk of B12 deficiency with long term metformin use ( 75 ). It is now recommended that periodic testing of vitamin B12 levels should be considered in patients on long-term metformin therapy, particularly in the setting of anemia or neuropathy or patients at risk of vitamin B12 deficiency (for example the elderly) ( 76 ). OVULATION AND PREGNANCY As discussed above in the polycystic ovary section, treatment of premenopausal women with PCOS with metformin may induce ovulation and thereby result in unplanned pregnancies. In premenopausal anovulatory women started on metformin one needs to discuss the need for contraception. Contraindications and Drug Interactions Metformin is contraindicated in patients with advanced kidney or liver disease, acute unstable congestive heart failure, conditions marked by decreased perfusion or hemodynamic instability, major alcohol abuse, or conditions characterized by acidosis ( 53 ). Metformin therapy should be suspended during serious illness or surgical procedures. Metformin is seldom used in hospitalized patients. RENAL DISEASE A major contraindication to the use of metformin is renal disease ( 53 ). Metformin is not metabolized and is excreted intact by the kidneys and therefore kidney function is a major determinant of blood metformin levels. eGFR should be obtained prior to initiating therapy. In patients with renal dysfunction or at risk of
