Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


kidneys and therefore kidney function is a major determinant of blood metformin levels. eGFR should be obtained prior to initiating therapy. In patients with renal dysfunction or at risk of developing renal dysfunction eGFR should be obtained more frequently. In patients with a eGFR < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 metformin therapy is contraindicated ( 53 ). In patients with an eGFR between 30-60mL/min/1.73 m 2 metformin can be used but one should consider using lower doses ( 53 ). In patients with eGFR < 45mL/min/1.73 m 2 the author typically uses ½ the maximal dose of metformin. In patients with labile renal disease, especially if frequent deteriorations in kidney function occur, metformin is best avoided. IODINATED CONTRAST STUDIES FDA guidelines indicate that metformin use should be withheld before iodinated contrast procedures if a) the eGFR is 30–60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , b) in the setting of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure, or c) if intra-arterial contrast is used. The eGFR should be checked 48 hours later and metformin restarted if renal function remains stable. DRUG INTERACTIONS Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, such as topiramate or acetazolamide, can decrease serum bicarbonate levels and induce a non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs with metformin may increase the risk for lactic acidosis (Package Insert). Certain drugs, such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine, may interfere with common renal tubular transport systems that are involved in the renal elimination of metformin and therefore can increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis (Package Insert). Summary Metformin is commonly used as the first drug for the treatment of diabetes because of excellent efficacy, an outstanding safety profile, low cost, and a long history of use without significant problems. Table 7. Summary of the Advantages and Disadvantages of Metformin View in own window Advantages Disadvantages Inexpensive GI side effects No hypoglycemia B12 deficiency Once a day administration possible Lactic acidosis (very rare) Long history of use Need to monitor renal function No weight gain and maybe weight loss May decrease cardiovascular disease THIAZOLIDINEDIONES (TZDS) Introduction Troglitazone (Rezulin), pioglitazone (Actos), and rosiglitazone (Avandia) are members of the thiazolidinedione (TZD) class of insulin sensitizing compounds that activate PPAR gamma ( 22 , 77 ). Troglitazone was withdrawn from the US, European, and Japanese markets in 2000 due to an idiosyncratic hepatic reaction leading to hepatic failure and death in some
