Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


22 , 77 ). Troglitazone was withdrawn from the US, European, and Japanese markets in 2000 due to an idiosyncratic hepatic reaction leading to hepatic failure and death in some patients ( 22 , 77 ). This idiosyncratic hepatic reaction has not occurred with pioglitazone or rosiglitazone ( 77 ). TZDs decrease insulin resistance and thereby enhance the biological response to endogenously produced insulin, as well as exogenous insulin ( 77 ). Administration Initiate pioglitazone at 15 mg or 30 mg once a day with or without food. Use 15 mg in patients where there is concern of fluid retention. If there is inadequate glycemic control, the dose can be increased in 15 mg increments up to a maximum of 45 mg once daily. Initiate rosiglitazone at 4 mg once a day with or without food. If there is inadequate glycemic control, the dose can be increased to a maximum of 8 mg once daily. Because the maximum effect of TZDs on glycemic control may take 10-14 weeks one should wait 12 weeks before deciding whether to increase the dose of TZDs. Mechanism of Action The primary effect of pioglitazone and rosiglitazone is the reduction of insulin resistance resulting in an improvement of insulin sensitivity ( 22 , 77 , 78 ). Pioglitazone and rosiglitazone are selective agonists for the PPAR gamma receptor, a member of the super-family of nuclear hormone receptors that function as ligand-activated transcription factors ( 77 , 78 ). In the absence of ligand, PPARs bind as hetero-dimers with the 9-cis retinoic acid receptor (RXR) and a multi-component co-repressor complex to a specific response element (PPRE) within the promoter region of their target genes ( 77 , 78 ). Once PPAR gamma is activated by ligand, the co-repressor complex dissociates allowing the PPAR-RXR heterodimer to associate with a multi-component co-activator complex resulting in an increased rate of gene transcription ( 77 , 78 ). Additionally, PPAR gamma can repress target gene expression by negative feedback on other signal transduction pathways, such as the nuclear factor kB (NF-kB) signaling pathway, in a DNA binding independent manner ( 77 ). The target genes of PPAR gamma include those involved in the regulation of lipid and carbohydrate metabolism and inflammation ( 77 , 78 ). PPAR gamma is highly expressed in adipose tissue while its expression in skeletal muscle is low ( 77 , 78 ). In the liver
