Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


inflammation ( 77 , 78 ). PPAR gamma is highly expressed in adipose tissue while its expression in skeletal muscle is low ( 77 , 78 ). In the liver PPAR gamma expression is low but increases in obesity and thus in obese individuals it is possible that TZDs directly affect the liver ( 79 ). It is likely that the primary effects of TZDs are on adipose tissue, followed by secondary benefits on other target tissues of insulin ( 77 ). TZDs promote fatty acid uptake and storage in adipose tissue resulting in a decrease in circulating fatty acids and a decrease in fat accumulation in liver, muscle, and pancreas leading to the protection of these tissues from the harmful metabolic effects of higher levels of fatty acids ( 22 , 77 ). This decrease in fat accumulation in liver and muscle leads to an improvement in insulin action and the decrease in the pancreas may improve insulin secretion. Additionally, PPAR gamma agonists increase the expression and circulating levels of adiponectin, an adipocyte-derived protein with insulin sensitizing activity ( 77 ). A decrease in the gene expression of other adipokines involved in induction of insulin resistance, such as TNF-alpha, resistin, etc. are likely to also contribute to the improvement in insulin resistance that occurs with TZDs ( 77 ). Finally, the activation of PPAR gamma in other tissues may contribute to the beneficial effects of TZDs. Glycemic Efficacy Pioglitazone and rosiglitazone decrease A1c levels to a similar degree as metformin and sulfonylurea therapy (typically a 1.0-1.5% decrease in A1c) ( 22 , 77 ). The decreases in fasting plasma glucose were observed as early as the second week of therapy, but maximal decreases occurred after 10-14 weeks ( 22 , 80 ). This differs from other hypoglycemic drugs where the maximal effect occurs more rapidly. TZDs lower both fasting and postprandial glucose levels ( 77 ). TZDs are more effective in improving glycemic control in patients with marked insulin resistance ( 81 ). TZDs are effective in combination with other hypoglycemic drugs including insulin ( 22 , 43 , 80 ). TZDs do not cause hypoglycemia when used as monotherapy or in combination with metformin ( 22 , 43 ). In combination with insulin or insulin secretagogues, TZDs can potentiate hypoglycemia. If hypoglycemia occurs one needs to adjust the dose of insulin or insulin secretagogues. The durability of glycemic
