Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


). In combination with insulin or insulin secretagogues, TZDs can potentiate hypoglycemia. If hypoglycemia occurs one needs to adjust the dose of insulin or insulin secretagogues. The durability of glycemic control with TZDs is more prolonged than with either sulfonylureas or metformin ( 18 ). After 5 years of monotherapy, 15% of individuals on rosiglitazone, 21% of individuals on metformin, and 34% of individuals on glyburide (glibenclamide) had fasting glucose levels above the acceptable range ( 18 ). The ability to maintain an A1c <7% was 57 months with rosiglitazone, 45 months with metformin, and 33 months with glyburide (glibenclamide) ( 18 ). Similar results were observed when pioglitazone therapy was compared to sulfonylurea therapy ( 82 ). After 2-years of therapy 47.8% of pioglitazone-treated patients and only 37.0% of sulfonylurea-treated patients maintained an A1c <8%. Studies have shown that TZDs improve and preserve beta cell function, which may account for their better durability ( 83 - 85 ). Other Beneficial Effects PROTEINURIA A meta-analysis of 15 studies (5 with rosiglitazone and 10 with pioglitazone) involving 2,860 patients demonstrated that TZDs decreased urinary albumin excretion in patients without albuminuria, in patients with microalbuminuria, and in patients with proteinuria ( 86 ). BLOOD PRESSURE TZDs modestly lower BP. In a review of 37 studies TZDs lowered systolic BP by 4.70 mm Hg and diastolic BP by 3.79 mm Hg ( 87 ). LIPIDS The effect of TZDs on lipids depends on which agent is used. Rosiglitazone increases serum LDL-C levels, increases HDL-C levels, and only decreases serum triglycerides if the baseline triglyceride levels are high [66]. In contrast, pioglitazone has less impact on LDL-C levels, but increases HDL-C levels, and decreases serum triglyceride levels ( 88 ). In the PROactive study, a large randomized cardiovascular outcome study, pioglitazone decreased triglyceride levels by approximately 10%, increased HDL-C levels by approximately 10%, and increased LDL-C by 1-4% ( 89 ). It should be noted that reductions in the small dense LDL subfraction and an increase in the large buoyant LDL subfraction are seen with both TZDs ( 88 ). Treatment with pioglitazone for 12 weeks resulted in a significant increase in the ability of HDL to facilitate the efflux of cholesterol from cells ( 90 ). In a randomized head-to-head trial, it was shown that pioglitazone decreased serum triglyceride levels and increased serum HDL-C levels to a greater degree than rosiglitazone treatment (
