Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


( 90 ). In a randomized head-to-head trial, it was shown that pioglitazone decreased serum triglyceride levels and increased serum HDL-C levels to a greater degree than rosiglitazone treatment ( 91 , 92 ). Additionally, pioglitazone increased LDL-C levels less than rosiglitazone. In contrast to the differences in lipid parameters, both rosiglitazone and pioglitazone decreased A1c and C-reactive protein to a similar extent. The mechanism by which pioglitazone induces more favorable changes in lipid levels than rosiglitazone is unclear, but differential actions of ligands for nuclear hormone receptors are well described. CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE Studies with pioglitazone have suggested a beneficial effect on cardiovascular disease. The PROactive study was a randomized controlled trial that examined the effect of pioglitazone vs. placebo over a 3-year period in patients with T2DM and pre-existing macrovascular disease ( 93 ). With regard to the primary endpoint (a composite of all-cause mortality, non-fatal myocardial infarction including silent MI, stroke, acute coronary syndrome, endovascular or surgical intervention in the coronary or leg arteries, and amputation above the ankle), there was a 10% reduction in events in the pioglitazone group but this difference was not statistically significant (p=0.095). It should be noted that both leg revascularization and leg amputations are not typical primary end points in cardiovascular disease trials, and these could be affected by pioglitazone induced edema. When one focuses on standard cardiovascular disease endpoints, the pioglitazone treated group did demonstrate a 16% reduction in the main secondary endpoint (composite of all-cause mortality, non-fatal myocardial infarction, and stroke) that was statistically significant (p=0.027). In the pioglitazone treated group, blood pressure, A1c, triglyceride, and HDL-C levels were all improved compared to the placebo group making it very likely that the mechanism by which pioglitazone decreased vascular events was multifactorial. The IRIS trial was a multicenter, double-blind trial that randomly assigned 3,876 patients with insulin resistance but without diabetes and a recent ischemic stroke or TIA to treatment with either pioglitazone or placebo ( 94 ). After 4.8 years, the primary outcome of fatal or nonfatal stroke or myocardial infarction occurred in 9.0% of the pioglitazone group and 11.8% of the placebo group (hazard ratio 0.76; P=0.007). All components of the primary outcome were reduced in the pioglitazone treated group. Additionally, in the subgroup of patients with “prediabetes” pioglitazone therapy also reduced cardiovascular events ( 95 ). Fasting glucose, fasting triglycerides, and systolic and diastolic blood pressure were lower
