Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


group. Additionally, in the subgroup of patients with “prediabetes” pioglitazone therapy also reduced cardiovascular events ( 95 ). Fasting glucose, fasting triglycerides, and systolic and diastolic blood pressure were lower while HDL-C and LDL-C levels were higher in the pioglitazone group than in the placebo group. Although this study excluded patients with diabetes the results are consistent with and support the results of a protective effect of pioglitazone observed in the PROactive study. In contrast to the above results, a study compared the effect of pioglitazone vs. sulfonylurea on cardiovascular disease and did not observe a reduction in events with pioglitazone treatment (TOSCA.IT) ( 96 ). Patients with T2DM (n= 3,028), inadequately controlled with metformin monotherapy (2-3 g per day), were randomized to pioglitazone or sulfonylurea and followed for a median of 57 months. Only 11% of the participants had a previous cardiovascular event. The primary outcome was a composite of first occurrence of all-cause death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, or urgent coronary revascularization and occurred in 6.8% of the patients treated with pioglitazone and 7.2% of the patients treated with a sulfonylurea (HR 0.96; NS). Limitations of this study are the small number of events likely due to low-risk population studied and the relatively small number of participants. Additionally, 28% of the subjects randomized to pioglitazone prematurely discontinued the medication. Thus, the results of this study should be interpreted with caution. Additionally, it should be noted that when patients in this study were analyzed based on the risk of developing cardiovascular disease those at high risk had a marked reduction in events when treated with pioglitazone compared to the sulfonylurea ( 97 ). Further support for the beneficial effects of pioglitazone on atherosclerosis is provided by studies that have examined the effect of pioglitazone on carotid intima-medial thickness. Both the Chicago and Pioneer studies demonstrated favorable effects on carotid intima-medial thickness in patients treated with pioglitazone compared to patients treated with sulfonylureas ( 98 , 99 ). Additionally, in patients with “prediabetes” pioglitazone also slowed the progression of carotid intima-medial thickness ( 100 ). Similarly, Periscope, a study that measured atheroma volume by intravascular ultrasonography, also demonstrated less atherosclerosis in the pioglitazone treated group compared to patients treated with sulfonylureas ( 101 ). There are a large number of potential mechanisms by which pioglitazone might reduce cardiovascular disease ( Table 8 ) ( 85 ). In addition to
