Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


with sulfonylureas ( 101 ). There are a large number of potential mechanisms by which pioglitazone might reduce cardiovascular disease ( Table 8 ) ( 85 ). In addition to altering risk factors pioglitazone has direct anti-atherogenic effects on the arterial wall that could reduce cardiovascular disease ( 85 ). Table 8. Effect of Pioglitazone on Cardiovascular Risk Factors View in own window Cardiovascular Risk Factor Effect of Pioglitazone Visceral Obesity Decreases Hypertension Lowers BP High Triglycerides Lower TG Low HDL cholesterol Increases HDL cholesterol Small dense LDL Converts small LDL to large LDL Endothelial dysfunction Improves Hyperglycemia Lowers A1c Inflammation Lowers CRP PAI-1 Lower PAI-1 Insulin resistance Reduces Hyperinsulinemia Lowers insulin levels While the data from a variety of different types of studies strongly suggests that pioglitazone is anti-atherogenic, the results with rosiglitazone are different. Several meta-analyses of small and short-duration rosiglitazone trials suggested that rosiglitazone was associated with an increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes ( 102 , 103 ). However, the final results of the RECORD study, a randomized trial that was specifically designed to compare the effect of rosiglitazone vs. either metformin or sulfonylurea therapy as a second oral drug in those receiving either metformin or a sulfonylurea on cardiovascular events, have been published and did not reveal a difference in cardiovascular disease death, myocardial infarctions, or stroke ( 104 , 105 ). Similarly, an analysis of patients on rosiglitazone in the BARI 2D trial also did not suggest an increase or decrease in cardiovascular events in the patients treated with rosiglitazone ( 106 ). Thus, while the available data indicate that pioglitazone is anti-atherogenic, the data for rosiglitazone suggests a neutral effect. Whether these differences between pioglitazone and rosiglitazone are accounted for by their differential effects on lipid levels or other factors is unknown. METABOLIC DYSFUNCTION ASSOCIATED STEATOTIC LIVER DISEASE (MASLD) AND METABOLIC DYSFUNCTION ASSOCIATED STEATOHEPATITIS (MASH) Studies have shown that pioglitazone has beneficial effects on MASLD and MASH ( 107 ). In an early study 55 patients with impaired glucose tolerance or T2DM and liver biopsy-confirmed MASH were randomized to pioglitazone 45 mg/day or placebo ( 108 ). After 6 months of therapy liver enzymes improved and hepatic fat decreased, measured by magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Moreover, histologic findings improved including steatosis (P=0.003), ballooning necrosis (P=0.02), and inflammation (P=0.008). However, fibrosis was unchanged. A more recent study randomized 101 patients with prediabetes or T2DM and
