Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


spectroscopy. Moreover, histologic findings improved including steatosis (P=0.003), ballooning necrosis (P=0.02), and inflammation (P=0.008). However, fibrosis was unchanged. A more recent study randomized 101 patients with prediabetes or T2DM and biopsy-proven MASH to pioglitazone 45 mg/day or placebo for 18 months ( 109 ). The primary outcome was a reduction of at least 2 points in the MASLD activity score in 2 histologic categories without worsening of fibrosis. Pioglitazone treatment resulted in 58% of patients achieving the primary outcome vs. only 17% of the placebo group (p<0.001) and 51% had resolution of MASH compared to 19% of the placebo group (p<0.001). Moreover, pioglitazone treatment improved the fibrosis score. A meta-analysis of 8 randomized controlled trials (5 using pioglitazone and 3 using rosiglitazone) with 516 patients with biopsy-proven MASH reported that TZD treatment was associated with improved advanced fibrosis (OR, 3.15; P = .01), fibrosis of any stage (OR, 1.66; P = .01), and MASH resolution (OR, 3.22; P < .001) ( 110 ). Similar results were observed in patients with and without diabetes. Pioglitazone was more effective in improving MASH than rosiglitazone. These studies demonstrate that pioglitazone has beneficial effects on MASLD and MASH. Whether this will result in improved clinical outcomes will require additional studies. TZDs are not FDA approved for the treatment of MASLD or MASH. POLYCYSTIC OVARY SYNDROME TZDs by improving insulin sensitivity decrease circulating androgen levels, improve ovulation rates, and improve glucose tolerance in patients with PCOS ( 63 ). Small trials have shown some benefit of TZDs for the treatment of infertility, usually in conjunction with clomiphene ( 63 ). Concerns regarding toxicity have limited the use of TZDs for the treatment of PCOS but if a patient has diabetes and TZDs are chosen for treating the diabetes one can anticipate beneficial effects on the PCOS. Side Effects WEIGHT GAIN TZDs lead to an increase in body weight of 2 to 3 kg for every 1 percent decrease in A1c levels ( 77 ). In some studies patients gained over 4 kg during a 26-week study ( 77 ). Weight gain to a similar degree occurred in monotherapy studies and in studies where TZDs were added to metformin, sulfonylureas, or insulin ( 77 ). However, in combination with an SGLT2 inhibitor or a GLP-1 receptor agonist the weight gain was blunted or prevented ( 111 , 112 ). In the ADOPT trial weight gain was
