Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


there were six patients with bladder cancer in the pioglitazone group and three patients in the placebo group ( 93 ). After 10 years of follow-up, bladder cancer was reported in 0.8% of patients (n = 14) in the pioglitazone versus 1.2% (n = 21) in the placebo group (relative risk 0.65) during the follow-up period ( 127 ). In the IRIS study bladder cancer occurred in 12 patients in the pioglitazone group and in 8 in the placebo group (P=0.37) ( 94 ). Thus, in large, randomized trials the data do not definitively support that pioglitazone significantly increases the risk of bladder cancer. The short duration of the randomized studies and infrequent occurrence of bladder cancer make interpretation of these studies difficult. Because of the preclinical data the FDA requested that the manufacturer of pioglitazone initiate a prospective study to examine the relationship between pioglitazone and bladder cancer. This 10-year study of 193,099 persons did not find any statistically significant association between pioglitazone treatment and bladder cancer ( 128 ). Additionally, in a multinational cohort of 1.01 million patients with T2DM there was no evidence for any association between cumulative exposure to pioglitazone and bladder cancer in men or women after adjustment for age, calendar year, diabetes duration, smoking, and any ever use of pioglitazone ( 129 ). Similarly, no association was observed between rosiglitazone and bladder cancer in men or women ( 129 ). In a careful review of 23 epidemiological studies Davidson concluded that there was little evidence that pioglitazone increased the risk of bladder cancer ( 126 ). The FDA still warns about the possibility of bladder cancer with pioglitazone use and recommends that pioglitazone not be used in diabetic patients with active bladder cancer or history of bladder cancer (package insert). MACULA EDEMA Macular edema has been reported in patients taking TZDs ( 130 , 131 ). Patients may present with blurred vision or decreased visual acuity or be diagnosed on routine ophthalmologic examination. Most patients had peripheral edema at the time macular edema was diagnosed ( 131 ). Some patients had improvement in their macular edema after discontinuation of the TZD ( 131 ). OVULATION AND PREGNANCY As discussed above in the polycystic ovary section, TZD treatment of premenopausal women with PCOS may induce ovulation and thereby result in unplanned pregnancies. In premenopausal anovulatory women started on a TZD one needs to discuss the
