Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


section, TZD treatment of premenopausal women with PCOS may induce ovulation and thereby result in unplanned pregnancies. In premenopausal anovulatory women started on a TZD one needs to discuss the need for contraception. Contraindications and Drug Interactions TZDs are contraindicated in patients with NYHA Class III or IV heart failure. Pioglitazone should not be used in diabetic patients with active bladder cancer or history of bladder cancer. Strong CYP2C8 inhibitors (e.g., gemfibrozil) increase pioglitazone and rosiglitazone concentrations, and one should limit pioglitazone dose to 15 mg daily (package insert). Summary TZDs are effective drugs in improving glycemic control and have significant benefits on disorders that occur commonly in patients with T2DM (cardiovascular disease, NAFLD/NASH, PCOS). Unfortunately, TZDs also have serious side effects, such as edema, CHF, osteoporosis, and weight gain, that limit their use. Clinicians need to balance the advantages and disadvantages of TZDs for the individual patient. Table 9. The Advantages and Disadvantages of Thiazolidinediones View in own window Advantages Disadvantages Once a day administration Edema Reduces CVD (pioglitazone) Heart failure Durable Effect Weight gain Reduces MASLD Osteoporosis No hypoglycemia Bladder cancer (pioglitazone)? Relatively inexpensive Macula edema? No dose adjustment for renal disease Small increase in LDL-C Increase HDL-C and decrease triglycerides ALPHA-GLUCOSIDASE INHIBITORS Introduction Acarbose (Precose, Glucobay), miglitol (Glycet), and voglibose (Basen, Voglib) are members of the α-glucosidase inhibitor class of oral anti-hyperglycemic compounds that were introduced in the 1990s ( 22 ). Administration The recommended starting dosage of acarbose and miglitol is 25 mg given orally three times daily at the start of each meal. The dose of acarbose and miglitol can be adjusted at 4 to 8-week intervals based on one-hour postprandial glucose or A1c levels, and on tolerance. The dosage can be increased from 25 mg tid with meals to 50 mg tid with meals. The maximum dose is 100 mg tid with meals. Note that the dose can be varied based on the amount of carbohydrate in the meal. In some patients one can initiate therapy once a day with the largest meal. Mechanism of Action Alpha-glucosidase inhibitors are competitive, reversible inhibitors of pancreatic α-amylase and membrane-bound intestinal α-glucosidase hydrolase enzymes ( 22 , 132 ). Inhibiting these enzymes prevents the metabolism of disaccharides and oligosaccharides into monosaccharides delaying carbohydrate digestion and absorption ( 22 , 132 ). Carbohydrate absorption occurs more distally in the intestine reducing the postprandial increase in glucose and lowering
