Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


and oligosaccharides into monosaccharides delaying carbohydrate digestion and absorption ( 22 , 132 ). Carbohydrate absorption occurs more distally in the intestine reducing the postprandial increase in glucose and lowering postprandial insulin levels ( 22 , 132 ). Acarbose and miglitol have minimal inhibitory activity against lactase and consequently will not prevent the increase in plasma glucose following the ingestion of milk or cause lactose intolerance (package insert). In addition to effecting carbohydrate absorption, alpha-glucosidase inhibitors increase postprandial GLP-1 secretion and reduce glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) secretion ( 22 ). Glycemic Efficacy The typical decrease in A1c levels is relatively modest with alpha-glucosidase inhibitors (0.5-1.0%) ( 43 , 132 , 133 ). The decrease in A1c is predominantly due to decreases in post meal glucose levels and alpha-glucosidase inhibitors have only modest effects on fasting glucose levels ( 22 , 132 , 133 ). Alpha-glucosidase inhibitors can be combined with other hypoglycemic drugs with additive effects and are particularly useful to lower postprandial glucose levels ( 43 , 132 ). Alpha-glucosidase inhibitors are most effective in patients who ingest a high carbohydrate diet and for this reason have been widely used and very effective in Asian populations ( 22 ). These drugs do not cause weight gain and hypoglycemia is uncommon ( 22 , 43 , 133 ). If a patient experiences hypoglycemia while taking an alpha-glucosidase inhibitor in combination with insulin or sulfonylureas the patient should be instructed to use glucose (gel, tablets, etc.) as alpha-glucosidase inhibitors will prevent the breakdown of sucrose and delay glucose absorption resulting in a failure to quickly correct hypoglycemia. Severe hypoglycemia may require intravenous glucose or intramuscular glucagon administration. Other Effects CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE In the STOP-NIDDM trial 1,429 subjects with impaired glucose tolerance were randomized to placebo vs. acarbose and followed for 3.3 years ( 134 ). In the acarbose group a 49% relative risk reduction in the development of cardiovascular events was observed (hazard ratio 0.51; P =0.03). Among cardiovascular events, the major reduction was in the risk of myocardial infarction (HR 0.09; P =0.02). In a smaller trial, 135 patients hospitalized for the acute coronary syndrome who were newly diagnosed with IGT were randomly assigned to acarbose or placebo ( 135 ). During a mean follow-up of 2.3 years the risk of recurrent major adverse cardiovascular events decreased significantly in the acarbose group compared with the control group (26.7% versus 46.9%,
