Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


). During a mean follow-up of 2.3 years the risk of recurrent major adverse cardiovascular events decreased significantly in the acarbose group compared with the control group (26.7% versus 46.9%, P < 0.05). Despite these favorable observations a large trial failed to demonstrate a beneficial effect of acarbose in Chinese patients with impaired glucose tolerance (ACE trial) ( 136 ). In a randomized trial acarbose vs. placebo was compared in 6,522 patients with coronary heart disease and impaired glucose tolerance. The primary outcome was cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, hospital admission for unstable angina, and hospital admission for heart failure and patients were followed for a median of 5 years. The primary outcome was similar in the acarbose and placebo groups (hazard ratio 0.98; p=0.73). No significant differences were seen for death from any cause, cardiovascular death, fatal or non-fatal myocardial infarction, fatal or non-fatal stroke, hospital admission for unstable angina, hospital admission for heart failure, or impaired renal function. Thus, whether acarbose favorably affects cardiovascular disease in patients at high risk for developing diabetes is uncertain. Moreover, the effect of acarbose on cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes is unknown. WEIGHT Acarbose may result in a very small decrease in weight (0.4kg) ( 137 ). Side Effects Gastrointestinal side effects of alpha-glucosidase inhibitors include flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea and are very commonly encountered ( 22 , 43 , 133 ). These side effects can lead to the inability to tolerate these drugs. A high carbohydrate diet may worsen the GI adverse effects. Over time the GI symptoms tend to decrease as the intestines adapt ( 132 ). GI side effects are due to the mechanism of action of alpha-glucosidase inhibitors ( 132 ). The inhibition of carbohydrate digestion in the small intestine leads to the delivery of undigested carbohydrates to the large intestine where microorganisms metabolize them into short-chain fatty acids, methane, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen, that can cause abdominal discomfort, increased flatulence, and diarrhea ( 132 ). Acarbose, particularly at doses in excess of 50 mg tid, may give rise to elevations of serum transaminases and, in rare instances, hyperbilirubinemia. It is recommended that serum transaminase levels be checked every 3 months during the first year of treatment with acarbose and periodically thereafter. If elevated transaminases are observed, a reduction in dosage or withdrawal of therapy may be indicated, particularly if the elevations persist (package
