Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


year of treatment with acarbose and periodically thereafter. If elevated transaminases are observed, a reduction in dosage or withdrawal of therapy may be indicated, particularly if the elevations persist (package insert). Contraindications and Drug Interactions Acarbose and miglitol are contraindicated in patients with inflammatory bowel disease, colonic ulceration, intestinal obstruction or those predisposed to intestinal obstruction, patients with chronic intestinal disease, or conditions that will be worsened by the increased gas formation in the intestine ( 43 ) (package insert). Acarbose is contraindicated in patients with cirrhosis (package insert). Acarbose and miglitol should not be used in patients with a creatinine > 2 mg/dl (package insert). Summary Alpha-glucosidase inhibitors are excellent drugs for lowering postprandial glucose levels. Unfortunately, because of their GI side effects many patients are unable to tolerate these drugs. Additionally, the need for three times a day administration makes it difficult for patients to comply with these drugs. Table 10. Advantages and Disadvantages of Alpha-Glucosidase Inhibitors View in own window Advantages Disadvantages No hypoglycemia GI side effects Weight neutral Frequent dosing schedule Decreases postprandial glucose Avoid if renal disease (creatinine> 2mg/dL Relatively inexpensive Limited glucose lowering effect SODIUM-GLUCOSE TRANSPORT PROTEIN 2 (SGLT2) INHIBITORS Introduction There are currently five SGLT2 inhibitors available (Canagliflozin/ Invokana; Dapagliflozin/ Farxiga; Empagliflozin/Jardiance; Ertugliflozin/ Stelgatro; Bexagliflozin/ Brenzavvy) ( 138 ). These drugs are very similar and there are only a few differences between these agents. Administration The recommended starting dose of canagliflozin is 100 mg once daily, taken before the first meal of the day. In patients tolerating canagliflozin 100 mg once daily who have an eGFR of 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 or greater and require additional glycemic control, the dose can be increased to 300 mg once daily. The recommended starting dose of dapagliflozin is 5 mg once daily, taken in the morning, with or without food. In patients tolerating dapagliflozin 5 mg once daily who require additional glycemic control, the dose can be increased to 10 mg once daily. The recommended starting dose of empagliflozin is 10 mg once daily in the morning, taken with or without food. In patients tolerating empagliflozin, the dose may be increased to 25 mg. The recommended starting dose of ertugliflozin is 5 mg once daily, taken in the morning, with or without food. In patients tolerating ertugliflozin 5 mg once daily who require additional glycemic control, the dose can be increased to 15 mg once daily.
