Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


in the morning, with or without food. In patients tolerating ertugliflozin 5 mg once daily who require additional glycemic control, the dose can be increased to 15 mg once daily. The recommended starting dose of bexagliflozin is 20 mg once daily, taken in the morning, with or without food. Before initiating SGLT2 inhibitor therapy one should assess renal function and volume status. The dose of SGLT2 inhibitors may need to be adjusted based on renal function (see below). Mechanism of Action SGLT2 is a low-affinity, high-capacity glucose transporter in the proximal tubules of the kidneys, which is responsible for the reabsorption of the majority of the filtered glucose (approximately 90%) entering the tubules ( 22 , 139 ). SGLT1, which is predominantly expressed in the intestines is also expressed in the kidneys, is a high-affinity, low-capacity glucose transporter in the proximal tubules, which makes a minor contribution to the reabsorption of filtered glucose (approximately 10%) ( 22 , 139 ). SGLT 1 and 2 transporters are capable of reabsorbing virtually all the filtered glucose when blood glucose levels are less than approximately 180mg/dL. When blood glucose levels are greater than approximately 180mg/dL, glucose begins to appear in the urine (i.e., glycosuria). The higher the blood glucose level the greater the quantity of glucose in the urine. Patients with T2DM express a greater number of SGLT2 transporters in the proximal tubule than do healthy individuals and hence glucose reabsorption from the glomerular filtrate is increased in patients with diabetes and glycosuria occurs at a higher blood glucose level (typically approximately 220mg/dl ( 140 ). Inhibition of SGLT2 by drugs results in glycosuria and can lead to the excretion of 60–90 grams of glucose in the urine per day ( Figure 5 ) ( 22 ). The amount of glucose excreted in the urine can vary considerably depending on renal function and the degree of hyperglycemia ( 22 ). Decreased renal function results in a decrease in filtered glucose and less glucose in the urine while high blood glucose levels increase filtered glucose and increase the loss of glucose in the urine ( 22 ). The ability of the inhibition of SGLT2 to lower blood glucose levels is not dependent on insulin action and hence is not affected by insulin levels or insulin resistance ( 22 ). As will be discussed below many of the non-glucose lowering benefits and side effects of
