Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


action and hence is not affected by insulin levels or insulin resistance ( 22 ). As will be discussed below many of the non-glucose lowering benefits and side effects of SGLT2 inhibitors can be explained by the increase in glucose excretion in the urine. It should be recognized that glycosuria results in an osmotic diuresis. Additionally, because the SGLT2 transporters also facilitate the reabsorption of sodium from the filtrate there is also the loss of sodium in the urine. Figure 5. Effect of SGLT2 Inhibitors on the Kidney. Glycemic Efficacy A meta-analysis of 66 randomized trials found that SGLT2 inhibitors decreased A1c levels by 0.4 to 1.1% ( 141 ). In comparison to other hypoglycemic drugs, it was found that SGLT‐2 inhibitors showed a greater efficacy than DPP‐4 inhibitors and similar or slightly less efficacy compared to metformin and TZDs ( 15 , 141 ). Sulfonylureas appeared to be superior to SGLT‐2 inhibitors at 12 weeks, but at 24- and 52-weeks efficacy was similar or slightly lower ( 15 , 141 ). However, SGLT‐2 inhibitors produced a greater reduction in HbA1c than sulfonylureas at 104 weeks perhaps due to the lack of durability of sulfonylurea therapy discussed earlier ( 141 ). The A1c lowering ability of the different SGLT2 inhibitors is similar but A1c is reduced to a slightly greater extent by high-dose canagliflozin, which is probably a result of its additional action of inhibiting SGLT1 in the intestine decreasing dietary glucose absorption ( 138 , 139 , 141 ). SGLT2 inhibitors when used as an add-on therapy to metformin, insulin, thiazolidinediones, DPP-4 inhibitors, GLP-1 RAs, sulfonylureas, or metformin ± DPP-4 inhibitor were similarly effective in reducing A1c levels as when used in monotherapy ( 22 , 139 ). The efficacy of SGLT2 inhibitors is dependent on renal function and as renal function decreases the ability of these drugs to lower A1c levels diminishes ( 22 , 139 ). SGLT2 inhibitors lower both fasting and postprandial glucose levels ( 139 ). In monotherapy SGLT2 inhibitors have a low risk of causing hypoglycemia but in combinations with insulin or sulfonylureas may potentiate the development of hypoglycemia ( 22 ). In patients in good glycemic control, one often decreases the insulin or sulfonylurea dose when initiating therapy with an SGLT2 inhibitor. If glucose levels are very high SGLT2 inhibitors can result in marked polyuria and nocturia that leads to uncomfortable symptoms and
