Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


sulfonylurea dose when initiating therapy with an SGLT2 inhibitor. If glucose levels are very high SGLT2 inhibitors can result in marked polyuria and nocturia that leads to uncomfortable symptoms and therefore many clinicians do not initiate SGLT2 inhibitor therapy in patients with high HbA1c levels until glucose control is in a more reasonable range. Other Effects WEIGHT SGLT2 inhibitors lead to weight loss ( 22 , 139 ). In general patient’s lose approximately 1- 3 kg on these drugs ( 22 , 138 , 139 ). SGLT2 inhibitor-induced weight loss results primarily from a decrease in fat mass, including reductions in visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue ( 139 ). The weight loss is due to the loss of glucose in the urine, which represents the loss of calories ( 139 , 142 ). The excretion of 50 grams of glucose in the urine is equivalent to the loss of 225 calories (50-grams X 4.5 calories per gram of glucose). However, the amount of glucose lost in the urine should result in a greater weight loss than is typically observed and a compensatory increase in food intake blunts the weight loss ( 142 ). There are likely to be other homeostatic mechanisms that also play a role in limiting weight loss with SGLT2 inhibitors. GLUCOSE MONITORING Monitoring glycemic control with 1,5-AG assay is not accurate as measurements of 1,5-AG are unreliable in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. BLOOD PRESSURE SGLT2 inhibitors decrease systolic BP by approximately 3-6 mmHg and diastolic BP by approximately 2-3 mmHg ( 22 , 139 ). Patients with poorly controlled BP at baseline experience the largest reduction in BP ( 138 ). SGLT2 inhibitors lower BP by promoting an osmotic diuresis and decreasing intravascular volume ( 139 ). Weight loss may also contribute to the decrease in BP. LIPID LEVELS SGLT2 inhibitors cause a small increase in LDL and HDL cholesterol levels. In the EMPA-REG outcome study, described in detail below, LDL cholesterol levels were increased by 2-4 mg/dL and HDL cholesterol by 2-3 mg/dL in the group treated with empagliflozin ( 143 ). Similarly, in the CANVAS outcome study, discussed in detail below, LDL cholesterol and HDL cholesterol were also marginally increased in the canagliflozin treated group (LDL cholesterol 4-5 mg/dL and HDL cholesterol 2-3 mg/dL) ( 144 ). In a meta-analysis of 43 randomized trials with 22,528 patient’s triglyceride levels were decreased by 2 mg/dL (
