Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


in reducing events remains to be determined but it is unlikely that these play a major role as other treatments that affect these factors do not markedly diminish the risk of heart failure events. It is possible that hemodynamic changes secondary to the osmotic diuresis induced by SGLT2 inhibitors contributed to the beneficial effects. In an analysis of the EMPA-REG OUTCOME trial, the change in hematocrit (~3% increase), corresponding to ~7% reduction in plasma volume, accounted for approximately 50% of the benefit of the drug on cardiovascular death ( 179 ). SGLT2 inhibitors promote erythrocytosis, which may be beneficial ( 180 ). Additionally, SGLT2 inhibitors increase free fatty acid levels and glucagon secretion, which promotes the production of ketone bodies such as beta-hydroxybutyrate that are utilized by the heart for energy production ( 181 ). It is possible that this alternative source of energy could be protective of heart function. Finally, there may be direct effects of SGLT2 inhibition on myocardial and renal metabolism ( 178 , 182 , 183 ). Further studies are required to better elucidate the mechanism of the beneficial effects of SGLT2 inhibitors on heart failure. RENAL DISEASE The large randomized SGLT2 inhibitor cardiovascular outcome trials described above also examined the effect of these drugs on renal disease, which led to additional studies focused on renal outcomes. EMPA-REG Outcome Trial The effect of empagliflozin on renal outcomes was studied in 4,124 patients with T2DM who were randomized to empagliflozin (10 mg or 25 mg) or placebo ( 184 ). The prespecified outcomes were progression to macroalbuminuria, doubling of the serum creatinine level, initiation of renal-replacement therapy, or death from renal disease, and incident albuminuria. Worsening nephropathy occurred in 12.7% of patients in the empagliflozin group and in 18.8% of patients in the placebo group, a relative risk reduction of 39% (P<0.001). Progression to macroalbuminuria was reduced 38%, doubling of serum creatinine by 44%, and initiation of renal replacement therapy by 55% (all statistically significant). The renal benefit was seen regardless of baseline eGFR, occurring in individuals with an eGFR as low as 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . While empagliflozin caused an initial decrease in eGFR over the long term eGFR decreased in the placebo group at a more rapid rate than the empagliflozin group. Additionally, patients treated with empagliflozin were more likely to convert from microalbuminuria to normoalbuminuria (HR 1.43; p<0.0001) or from macroalbuminuria to microalbuminuria
