Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


kidney disease, patients on either diuretics or medications that interfere with the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g., angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers), and patients with low systolic blood pressure ( 138 ) (package insert). In a meta-analysis of 10 large outcome studies the risk of volume depletion was modestly increased (RR 1.14, 95% CI 1.06-1.23) ( 210 ). Volume status should be determined prior to initiating therapy with an SGLT2 inhibitor. ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY SGLT2 inhibitors have been reported to cause acute kidney injury ( 138 ). It is likely that volume depletion and hypotension lead to acute kidney injury ( 138 ). In an analysis of two large health care utilization cohorts SGLT2 inhibitors were not associated with an increased risk of acute kidney injury ( 219 ). Similarly, in the cardiovascular outcome studies described earlier an increase in acute kidney injury was not observed. In fact, in a meta-analysis of 4 large studies (EMPA-REG, CANVAS, CREDENCE, and DECLARE-TIMI 58) a decrease in acute kidney injury was observed (Risk ratio 0.75; p<0.0001) ( 220 ). Similarly, a meta-analysis of 10 studies with 71,553 participants also did not observe an increase in acute kidney injury and in fact observed a decrease (RR 0.84, 95% CI 0.77-0.91) ( 210 ). Even in patients over age 75 years of age an increase in acute kidney injury was not observed with SGLT2 treatment ( 221 ). Before initiating SGLT2 inhibitor therapy one should consider factors that may predispose patients to acute kidney injury including hypovolemia, chronic renal insufficiency, congestive heart failure, and concomitant medications (diuretics, ACE inhibitors, ARBs, NSAIDs). Consider temporarily discontinuing SGLT2 inhibitors in any setting of reduced oral intake (such as acute illness or fasting) or fluid losses (such as gastrointestinal illness or excessive heat exposure) (package insert). DIABETIC KETOACIDOSIS Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) has been observed in patients with T2DM treated with SGLT2 inhibitors but is a rare side effect ( 22 , 138 ). In some instances, the glucose levels are not very elevated despite the patient having DKA (euglycemic DKA) and this can result in a delay in diagnosing DKA ( 138 ). SGLT2 inhibitors were associated with approximately twice the risk of diabetic ketoacidosis compared to treatment with DPP-4 inhibitors ( 222 ). Additionally, in several of the large cardiovascular studies described above an increase in DKA was observed (CANVAS Trial- canagliflozin 0.6 vs. placebo 0.3 participants with an event
