Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


not very strong. One should recognize though, that hypoglycemia, hypovolemia, and hypotension could increase the risk of falls and thereby increase the risk of fractures in susceptible individuals. AMPUTATIONS In the CANVAS study described above, canagliflozin was associated with an increased risk of amputations (HR 1.97; 95% CI 1.41 to 2.75), which were primarily at the level of the toe or metatarsal ( 144 ). Amputation risk was strongly associated with baseline history of prior amputation and risk factors for amputation (peripheral vascular disease and neuropathy). The risk of amputation was low with 6.3 of participants per 1000 patients-years in the canagliflozin group having an amputation vs. 3.4 in the placebo group. The basis for the increase in amputations is unknown. However, the EMPA-REG OUTCOME trial with empagliflozin, the DECLARE-TIMI 58 trial with dapagliflozin, and the VERTIS CV trial with ertuglifozin did not report an increase in amputations in the patients treated with an SGLT2 inhibitor ( 143 , 156 , 160 , 230 ). Moreover, in the CREDENCE trial, canagliflozin also did not cause an increase in amputations in the patients treated with the SLGT2 inhibitor ( 154 ). In a meta-analysis of 7 large cardiovascular/renal outcome trials described above (excluding CANVAS) there was no increased risk of amputations in the SGLT2 inhibitor treated group vs. placebo group (RR 1.09; CI 95% 0.94-1.26) ( 231 ). Given that only one of eight large, randomized trials has demonstrated an increased risk of amputations it is unlikely that SGLT2 inhibitors significantly increase the risk of amputations. Nevertheless, before initiating SGLT2 inhibitor therapy one should consider factors in the patient history that may predispose them to the need for amputations, such as a history of prior amputation, peripheral vascular disease, severe neuropathy, and diabetic foot ulcers and weigh the risks and benefits of therapy (package insert). ACUTE ILLNESS Because of the risk of hypovolemia, hypotension, and DKA the administration of SGLT2 inhibitors should be suspended during acute illness or planned surgical procedures. SGLT2 inhibitor therapy may be resumed following recovery. This view needs to be modified based on the results of the DARE 19 study, DEFENDER Trial, and RECOVERY trial ( 232 - 234 ). In the DARE 19 study patients hospitalized with COVID-19 and with at least one cardiometabolic risk factor (i.e., hypertension, T2DM, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, heart failure, and chronic kidney disease) were randomized to dapagliflozin 10 mg daily or
