Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


with COVID-19 and with at least one cardiometabolic risk factor (i.e., hypertension, T2DM, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, heart failure, and chronic kidney disease) were randomized to dapagliflozin 10 mg daily or placebo for 30 days ( 232 ). While dapagliflozin did not result in a statistically significant risk reduction in organ dysfunction or death, or improvement in clinical recovery, the drug was well tolerated indicating that SGLT2 inhibitors can be safely given to hospitalized patients if there are strong indications for their use. Additionally, The DEFENDER trial randomized intensive care unit patients to dapagliflozin (n = 248) or placebo (n = 259) hoping to improve outcomes ( 233 ). Unfortunately, the addition of dapagliflozin to critically ill patients did not improve clinical outcomes but also did not cause harm. The RECOVERY trial randomized patients with COVID-19 to receive either empagliflozin (2113 patients) or usual care alone (2158 patients) ( 234 ). As in the other studies no benefits were seen but no significant toxicity was observed. A meta-analysis of the use of SGLT-2 inhibitors in hospitalized patients in 23 studies with 19,846 participants observed an increase in DKA that did not achieve statistical significance because the frequency of DKA was low ( 235 ). Thus, if there is an important indication to continue therapy with an SGLT2 inhibitor without a major contraindication, therapy with these drugs appears to be safe. CANCER A meta-analysis of seventy-six randomized trials with 116,375 participants followed for over 48 weeks did not find an increased risk of cancer or cancer mortality with SGLT2 inhibitors ( 236 ). Contraindications and Drug Interactions RENAL FUNCTION The dose of SGLT2 inhibitors needs to be adjusted based on renal function. Therefore, renal function needs to be assessed prior to initiating therapy and periodically thereafter (because changes in the recommendation occur rapidly with SGLT2 inhibitors please check the most recent package insert for the latest guidelines). Dosage recommendations for dapagliflozin and canagliflozin are shown in tables 14 and 15 . Table 14. Dose Recommendations for Dapagliflozin View in own window eGFR > 45 To improve glycemic control, the recommended starting dose is 5 mg orally once daily. Dose can be increased to 10 mg orally once daily for additional glycemic control. For all other indications, the recommended starting dose is 10 mg orally once daily. eGFR 25-45 10 mg orally once daily eGFR < 25 Initiation is not recommended; however, patients
