Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


For all other indications, the recommended starting dose is 10 mg orally once daily. eGFR 25-45 10 mg orally once daily eGFR < 25 Initiation is not recommended; however, patients may continue 10 mg orally once daily to reduce the risk of eGFR decline, ESKD, CV death, and heart failure. Dialysis Contraindicated Table 15. Dose Recommendations for Canagliflozin View in own window eGFR > 60 100 mg orally once daily, taken before the first meal of the day. Dose can be increased to 300 mg once daily for additional glycemic control. eGFR 30-60 100 mg once daily. eGFR < 30 Initiation is not recommended, however patients with albuminuria greater than 300 mg/day may continue 100 mg once daily to reduce the risk of ESKD, doubling of serum creatinine, CV death, and hospitalization for heart failure Dialysis Contraindicated Empagliflozin is not recommended for glycemic control in patients with an eGFR < 30 and is contraindicated in patients on dialysis. Data are insufficient to provide a dosing recommendation in patients who have T2DM and established cardiovascular disease with an eGFR less than 30 or who have heart failure with reduced ejection fraction with an eGFR less than 20. Ertugliflozin is not recommended in patients with an eGFR less than 45 and is contraindicated in patients on dialysis. Bexagliflozin is not recommended in patients with an eGFR less than 30. Summary SGLT2 inhibitors are effective at lowering glucose levels and even more importantly have beneficial effects on heart failure and renal disease. They have a number of potential side effects, but many are not definitively associated with SGLT2 inhibitors (fractures, urinary tract infections, amputations, Fournier’s gangrene) or are rare (DKA). The major side effect is genital mycotic infections, which usually are mild and respond to treatment. In patients with pre-existing cardiovascular disease, at high risk for cardiovascular disease particularly heart failure, or with renal disease SGLT2 inhibitors are a leading therapeutic choice. Table 16. Advantages and Disadvantages of SGLT2 Inhibitors View in own window Advantages Disadvantages Weight loss Urinary Tract Infections? No hypoglycemia Genital Mycotic Infections Decrease heart failure Increased LDL (small increase) Decreases renal disease Increased risk of DKA Once a day administration Postural hypotension/volume depletion Decrease BP Fractures/ Osteoporosis? Increased risk amputations (canagliflozin)? Fournier’s gangrene (rare)? COMBINATION SGLT1 AND SGLT2 INHIBITORS Introduction Sotagliflozin (Zynquista, Inpefa) inhibits both SGLT1 and SGLT2 ( 237 ). Sotaglifozin’s effectiveness in inhibiting SGLT-2 is similar to
