Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


amputations (canagliflozin)? Fournier’s gangrene (rare)? COMBINATION SGLT1 AND SGLT2 INHIBITORS Introduction Sotagliflozin (Zynquista, Inpefa) inhibits both SGLT1 and SGLT2 ( 237 ). Sotaglifozin’s effectiveness in inhibiting SGLT-2 is similar to that of the selective SGLT-2 inhibitors discussed above but it is > 10-fold more potent in inhibiting SGLT-1 ( 238 ) . In the US the drug was approved in 2023 to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death, hospitalization for heart failure, and urgent heart failure visits in patients with heart failure or type 2 diabetes mellitus, chronic kidney disease, and other cardiovascular risk factors. Sotagliflozin was approved in Europe for the treatment of patients with type 1 diabetes but is no longer available. It was used in overweight patients (BMI> 27 kg/m2) when optimal insulin on its own does not achieve adequate glycemic control (package insert- https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/zynquista-epar-product-information_en.pdf ). Administration The starting dose of sotagliflozin is 200 mg daily which may be increased to 400 mg as tolerated. In patients with decompensated heart failure, begin dosing when patients are hemodynamically stable. Renal function and volume status should be assessed prior to initiating therapy. Studies with sotagliflozin did not include patients with an eGFR less than 25 or on dialysis and in these studies, sotagliflozin was discontinued if eGFR fell below 15 or chronic dialysis was initiated. Because of an increased risk of diabetic ketoacidosis ketone monitoring in patients with type 1 diabetes and in others at risk for ketoacidosis (patients with type 2 diabetes on insulin therapy) should be considered, particularly when precipitating conditions for diabetic ketoacidosis occur such as acute febrile illness, reduced caloric intake, ketogenic diet, surgery, insulin dose reduction, volume depletion, or alcohol abuse. In order to avoid hypoglycemia in patients on insulin a reduction in insulin dose may be considered, particularly in patients with good glycemic control. Similarly, there is a risk of hypoglycemia in patients taking insulin secretagogues. Mechanism of Action The mechanism by which inhibition of SGLT2 decreases glucose levels was discussed in the prior section on SGLT2 inhibitors. Inhibition of SGLT1 will have additional effects. In the kidney SGLT1 is responsible for approximately 10% of the transport of luminal glucose and thus inhibiting SGLT1 may facilitate SGLT2 induced loss of glucose in the urine ( 237 , 239 ). Moreover, SGLT1 is expressed in the small intestine and facilitates the absorption of dietary glucose ( 237 , 239 , 240 ). SGLT1 expression
