Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


sotagliflozin group (0.6% vs 0.3%; P=0.02). RENAL As noted above in the SCORED trial in patients with T2DM there was a reduction in renal disease endpoints in the participants treated with sotagliflozin. Side Effects The side effects of sotagliflozin are similar to those described previously for SGLT2 inhibitors. In addition, sotagliflozin also causes diarrhea and flatulence due to the inhibition of SGLT1 mediated glucose uptake in the small intestine. Contraindications and Drug Interactions Patients at high risk for DKA should not be started on sotagliflozin. Sotagliflozin is not recommended during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy or during breastfeeding. Summary In patients with T1DM sotagliflozin modestly reduces A1c levels and body weight but increases the risk of DKA. In patients with T2DM sotagliflozin reduces A1c levels more effectively and decreases body weight with a relatively low risk of DKA. While studies have shown beneficial effects of sotagliflozin on the development of heart failure and renal disease it is not clear whether this benefit is solely due to inhibition of SGLT2 or whether inhibition of SGLT1 plays a significant role. Whether sotagliflozin is more effective than SGLT2 inhibitors is unknown. DOPAMINE AGONIST (CYCLOSET) Introduction In 2009, a quick-release formulation of bromocriptine (Cycloset, bromocriptine-QR) was approved to improve glycemic control in patients with T2DM ( 254 , 255 ). Bromocriptine is a centrally acting dopamine D2 receptor agonist that has been used for many years for the treatment of hyperprolactinemia and Parkinson’s disease ( 254 , 255 ). It can be used to improve glycemic control in patients with T2DM either as monotherapy or in combination with other hypoglycemic drugs ( 254 , 255 ). Administration Bromocriptine-QR should be initiated at one tablet (0.8 mg) within two hours after waking in the morning. The dose can be increased by one tablet per week until a maximum daily dose of 6 tablets (4.8 mg) or until the maximal tolerated number of tablets between 2 and 6 per day is reached. Taking bromocriptine-QR with food is recommended to decrease gastrointestinal side effects ( 254 ). Mechanism of Action Bromocriptine-QR decreases insulin resistance resulting in an increase in glucose disposal and a decrease in hepatic glucose production ( 254 ). Bromocriptine-QR does not increase insulin levels ( 254 ). Thus, the effectiveness of bromocriptine-QR will be greatest in patients that are insulin resistant and produce insulin ( 254 ). Based on animal studies it
