Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


insulin levels ( 254 ). Thus, the effectiveness of bromocriptine-QR will be greatest in patients that are insulin resistant and produce insulin ( 254 ). Based on animal studies it is thought that bromocriptine-QR acts on the central nervous system, particularly the hypothalamus, to increase insulin sensitivity in liver, muscle, and adipose tissue ( 254 ). Glycemic Efficacy In a 24 week monotherapy study the A1c level was 0.4% lower in the bromocriptine-QR group compared to placebo group ( 256 ). Both fasting and postprandial glucose levels were decreased with bromocriptine-QR treatment ( 256 ). Bromocriptine-QR treatment was associated with a decrease in triglyceride levels (32 mg/dL) but no significant change in LDL or HDL cholesterol levels or change in body weight ( 256 ). A trial adding bromocriptine-QR to sulfonylurea therapy demonstrated a 0.55% lower A1c in the bromocriptine-QR group compared to placebo ( 256 ). As in the monotherapy study fasting glucose, postprandial glucose, and triglyceride levels were decreased with no change in LDL or HDL cholesterol levels ( 256 ). Addition of bromocriptine-QR to other hypoglycemic drugs including insulin results in an approximate decrease in A1c of 0.5 to 1.0% ( 254 , 255 ). Hypoglycemia is a rare side effect with use of bromocriptine-QR alone but is increased with use of insulin secretagogue therapy or insulin ( 255 , 256 ). Other Effects BLOOD PRESSURE Bromocriptine-QR modestly decreases systolic and diastolic blood pressure ( 255 , 256 ). LIPIDS Bromocriptine-QR treatment decreases triglyceride levels but has no significant effect on LDL or HDL cholesterol levels ( 255 , 256 ). The decrease in triglyceride levels is thought to be due to a decrease in hepatic triglyceride synthesis, likely due to a decrease in adipose tissue lipolysis resulting in decreased blood free fatty acid levels and decreased delivery of fatty acids to the liver for triglyceride synthesis ( 254 ). CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE A 52-week, randomized, double-blind, multicenter trial evaluated cardiovascular safety in 3,095 patients with T2DM treated with bromocriptine-QR or placebo ( 257 ). The composite end point of first myocardial infarction, stroke, coronary revascularization, or hospitalization for angina or congestive heart failure occurred in 1.8% of the bromocriptine-QR treated vs. 3.2% of the placebo-treated patients resulting in a 40% decrease in cardiovascular events (HR 0.60; CI 0.37– 0.96). Clearly further studies to confirm this finding and to elucidate the mechanism of this beneficial effect are required.
