Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


in a 40% decrease in cardiovascular events (HR 0.60; CI 0.37– 0.96). Clearly further studies to confirm this finding and to elucidate the mechanism of this beneficial effect are required. Side Effects The most common side effect of bromocriptine-QR therapy is nausea which is usually transient and improves with time ( 255 , 256 ). This side effect can be minimized by reducing the dose ( 255 , 256 ). In the pooled phase 3 trials adverse events leading to discontinuation occurred in 539 (24%) of the bromocriptine-QR treated patients and 118 (9%) of the placebo-treated patients. This between-group difference was driven mostly by gastrointestinal adverse events, particularly nausea (package insert). Similarly, in the bromocriptine-QR safety trial adverse events leading to discontinuation of drug occurred in 24% of the bromocriptine-QR treated patients and 15% of the placebo-treated patients, a difference again driven mostly by gastrointestinal adverse events, particularly nausea (package insert). Hypotension resulting in syncope can occur particularly in patients on anti-hypertensive medications (package insert). Other side effects include somnolence, fatigue, vomiting, headache, and dizziness (package insert). Contraindications and Drug Interactions Bromocriptine-QR is metabolized by the Cyp3A4 system and therefore the drug should not be used with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., azole antimycotics, HIV protease inhibitors) and the dose should not exceed 1.6 mg during concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., erythromycin) (package insert). Bromocriptine-QR is contraindicated in patients with syncopal migraine because it increases the likelihood of a hypotensive episode (package insert). The use of bromocriptine-QR in patients with severe psychotic disorders is not recommended as it may exacerbate the disorder or diminish the effectiveness of drugs used to treat the disorder (for example clozapine, olanzapine, ziprasidone) (package insert). Summary Bromocriptine-QR has modest effects on A1c levels by decreasing insulin resistance. In clinical trials the drug was often discontinued due to nausea. Because of the modest effects on A1c and the prominent side effects this drug is not widely used in the treatment of patients with T2DM. If further studies confirmed the decrease in cardiovascular events in patients treated with bromocriptine-QR the use of this drug would increase. Table 17. Advantages and Disadvantages of Bromocriptine-QR View in own window Advantages Disadvantage Decreases triglycerides Need to titrate dose Once a day dosing Modest effect on A1c Cardiovascular benefits? Frequent discontinuation due to GI side effects Decrease BP Neutral weight effect Hypoglycemia uncommon OVERVIEW OF THE INCRETIN SYSTEM The
