Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


Once a day dosing Modest effect on A1c Cardiovascular benefits? Frequent discontinuation due to GI side effects Decrease BP Neutral weight effect Hypoglycemia uncommon OVERVIEW OF THE INCRETIN SYSTEM The incretin effect refers to a greater insulin stimulatory effect after an oral glucose load than from an intravenous (IV) glucose infusion when plasma glucose concentrations are matched ( 258 ). Thus, glucose and other nutrients delivered via the gastrointestinal tract potentiates the ability of the beta cells in the pancreas to produce insulin resulting in greater insulin secretion than with IV glucose ( 259 ). The increase in insulin levels with IV glucose is only approximately one‐third of that elicited by oral glucose. The majority of the incretin effect is due to two GI hormones, glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide (GIP) and glucagon like peptide-1 (GLP-1) with GIP having a dominant role ( Figure 6 ) ( 258 ). The basal plasma levels of the incretin hormones are low but after eating the levels increase reaching concentrations that augment the insulin secretory responses if glucose levels are high but are ineffective at low glucose concentrations (i.e. glucose dependent effect) ( 258 ). Patients with T2DM have a significant reduction of the incretin effect but GLP-1 and GIP levels in the blood after meals are not reduced in patients with T2DM ( 258 ). Rather decreased functional beta cell mass and resistance to the effects of GLP-1 and GIP in patients with T2DM accounts for the decreased incretin effect ( 258 ). Infusion of GIP or GLP-1 has a decreased effect on insulin secretion in patients with T2DM (resistance to effect of GIP and GLP-1) compared to normal individuals likely secondary to decreased functional beta cell mass ( 258 ). Achieving near-normoglycemia by intensified insulin regimens improved beta cell responsiveness to exogenous GIP and GLP-1, although the increase in insulin secretion was still much lower than in individuals without diabetes ( 258 ). The reduced incretin effect in patients with T2DM occurs after the diagnosis of diabetes is established, suggesting this abnormality is secondary to the diabetic state rather than the cause of diabetes ( 259 ). Glucagon Like Peptide-1 (GLP-1) GLP-1 is cleaved from the pro-glucagon molecule by pro-hormone convertase enzymes in the intestine ( 259 ). GLP-1 is stored in the L-cells of the intestine, predominantly in the ileum and colon, and is released at mealtime in response to neurohormonal signals
