Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


the intestine ( 259 ). GLP-1 is stored in the L-cells of the intestine, predominantly in the ileum and colon, and is released at mealtime in response to neurohormonal signals and the presence of food in the gut ( 258 , 259 ). GLP-1 affects postprandial glucose levels through several mechanisms, including enhancing insulin secretion by the beta cells and inhibiting postprandial glucagon secretion by the alpha cells in a glucose-dependent manner (i.e. GLP-1 does not stimulate insulin secretion or inhibit glucagon secretion unless glucose levels are elevated) ( 259 ). This glucose dependent effect accounts for why incretin-based drugs do not cause serious hypoglycemia. Activation of GLP-1 receptors on beta cells increases cAMP levels, which potentiates insulin release in the presence of elevated glucose concentrations. In addition, GLP-1 slows the rate of gastric emptying, which is often paradoxically accelerated in patients with diabetes ( 259 ). GLP-1 also acts as a postprandial satiety signal through neurohormonal networks that signal the brain to suppress appetite and food intake, which can lead to weight loss ( 259 ). Animal studies suggest that exogenous GLP-1 has the ability to increase islet size, enhance beta-cell proliferation, inhibit beta-cell apoptosis, and regulate islet growth ( 260 ). The administration of GLP-1 intravenously increases insulin secretion, reduces glucagon secretion, and decreases glucose levels during fasting and in the post-prandial state ( 258 ). GLP-1 is rapidly degraded by dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4) into inactive peptides (half-life is minutes) ( Figure 6 ). Figure 6. Incretin Hormone Secretion and Effect on Pancreas. Glucose-Dependent Insulinotropic Peptide (GIP) Within minutes after ingestion of food, GIP is secreted from the K-cells located in the proximal region of the jejunum ( 258 , 259 ). GIP helps maintain normal glucose homeostasis by stimulating an increase in insulin secretion by the beta cells ( Figure 6 ). Studies have suggested that the increase in insulin with food intake (Incretin effect) is primarily mediated by GIP ( 258 ). In contrast to GLP-1, GIP does not inhibit glucagon secretion, and in fact may stimulate glucagon secretion during euglycemic states. Additionally, GIP has no effect on gastric emptying. GIP concentrations in patients with T2DM are either normal or slightly increased following a meal indicating that the failure to secrete is not the explanation for the decreased incretin effect. Rather, beta cells in patients with T2DM are resistant to GIP. GIP is rapidly degraded
