Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


indicating that the failure to secrete is not the explanation for the decreased incretin effect. Rather, beta cells in patients with T2DM are resistant to GIP. GIP is rapidly degraded by DPP-4 into inactive peptides (half-life is minutes) ( Figure 6 ). The characteristics of GLP-1 and GIP are shown in table 18 . Table 18. Characteristics of GLP-1 and GIP View in own window GLP-1 GIP Post meal levels in patients with diabetes Normal Normal Effect on insulin secretion Stimulates Stimulates Effect on glucagon secretion Inhibits No effect or stimulates Gastric emptying Delays No effect Satiety Induces Induces Degradation by DPP-4 Yes Yes DIPEPTIDYL PEPTIDASE-4 (DPP-4) INHIBITORS Introduction The currently available DPP-4 inhibitors in the US are sitagliptin (Januvia), saxagliptin (Onglyza), linagliptin (Tradjenta), and alogliptin (Nesina). Vidigliptin (Galvus) is available in Europe ( 261 ). DPP-4 inhibitors can be used as monotherapy, dual therapy, triple drug therapy, or in combination with insulin ( 261 ). These drugs are very similar and the minor differences will be discussed below. Administration The recommended dose of sitagliptin is 100 mg once daily with or without food. In patients with moderate renal impairment (eGFR >30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 but < 45, the dose of sitagliptin is 50 mg once daily. In patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR <30) the dose of sitagliptin is 25 mg once daily. The recommended dosage of saxagliptin is 2.5 mg or 5 mg once daily with or without food. In patients with a creatinine clearance CrCl ≤50 mL/min the dose of saxagliptin is 2.5 mg. The recommended dose of linagliptin is 5 mg once daily with or without food. No dose adjustment is required for decreased renal function. The recommended dose of alogliptin is 25 mg once daily with or without food. The dose of alogliptin is 12.5 mg once daily for patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCl ≥30 to <60 mL/min) and 6.25 mg with severe renal impairment (CrCl <30 mL/min). Renal function should be checked prior to initiating treatment and periodically because dose adjustments are required for all DPP-4 inhibitors except linagliptin. Mechanism of Action DPP-4 inhibitors increase the concentration and activity of the endogenous incretins, GLP-1 and GIP, by inhibiting the proteolytic cleavage of these hormones by DPP-4, into inactive molecules ( 261 ). As discussed above, GLP-1 is secreted by L-cells in the intestines and stimulates insulin secretion and suppresses glucagon secretion in a
