Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


hormones by DPP-4, into inactive molecules ( 261 ). As discussed above, GLP-1 is secreted by L-cells in the intestines and stimulates insulin secretion and suppresses glucagon secretion in a glucose dependent manner. GIP is secreted by the K cells in the proximal intestine and stimulates insulin secretion in a glucose dependent manner. An increase in active GLP-1 and GIP potentiates glucose induced insulin secretion and an increase in GLP-1 inhibits glucagon secretion ( 261 ). Together an increase in insulin and a decrease in glucagon will result in a decrease in blood glucose levels. Of note, DPP-4 inhibition results in a 2–3-fold increase in postprandial active GLP-1 levels, which is not at a level that delays gastric emptying or increases satiety and induces weight loss. This is in contrast to GLP-1 receptor agonist administration that results in marked elevations in active GLP1 activity that is equivalent to a >10-fold increase in GLP-1, which can delay gastric emptying and increase satiety. Glycemic Efficacy DPP-4 inhibitors typically reduce A1c levels by 0.5-1.0% and are less effective in lowering A1c compared to metformin, TZDs, SGLT2 inhibitors, and GLP-1 RAs ( Table 3 ) ( 15 , 22 , 261 ). With regards to sulfonylureas, studies have shown a greater decrease in A1c with sulfonylureas compared to DPP-4 inhibitors in short term studies but in studies greater than one year the effect of sulfonylureas and DPP-4 inhibitors on A1c were similar ( 22 , 261 ). The ability of DPP-4 inhibitors to lower A1c is similar in monotherapy and when DPP-4 inhibitors are used in combination with other drugs ( 22 , 261 ). The decrease in A1c is similar for the different DPP-4 inhibitors ( 15 , 22 ). DPP-4 inhibitors are effective in lowering postprandial glucose levels. Because of their mechanism of action, DPP-4 inhibitors do not cause hypoglycemia but can potentiate the hypoglycemia induced by insulin or sulfonylureas ( 22 , 261 ). An adjustment in the dose of sulfonylureas or insulin may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. The results of the GRADE study, which compared glargine insulin, glimepiride, liraglutide, and sitagliptin added to metformin, are discussed in the section entitled “OVERVIEW OF DRUGS”. The GLP1 receptor agonist was better than the sulfonylurea which was better than DPP-4 inhibitor in glycemic control ( 17 ). Other Effects WEIGHT DPP-4 inhibitors are weight neutral ( 22 , 261
