Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


due to renal failure, ESRD, or sustained 40% or higher decrease in eGFR from baseline ( 269 ). Taken together these studies indicate that DPP-4 inhibitors decrease proteinuria but do not provide data suggesting an improvement or delay in worsening of renal function. However, using large data bases, studies have suggested that DPP-4 inhibitors have favorable effects on renal function and decrease the development of end stage renal disease ( 274 - 276 ). Randomized trials of DPP4 specifically examining the effect of renal parameters would be helpful. Side Effects DPP-4 inhibitors have been safe drugs with minimal side effects and are well tolerated by patients. Very rarely hypersensitivity reactions including urticaria, facial edema, anaphylaxis, angioedema, and exfoliative skin conditions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome have occurred ( 277 ). Bullous pemphigoid has also rarely been associated with DPP-4 inhibitor treatment ( 277 ). ACUTE PANCREATITIS The package insert of DPP-4 inhibitors indicates that acute pancreatitis is a complication of DPP-4 inhibitor treatment. The individual results of the SAVOR–TIMI, EXAMINE, and TECOS trials discussed above did not show an increased risk of pancreatitis or pancreatic cancer. However, two meta-analyses of these studies demonstrated an 80% increased risk of acute pancreatitis in patients using DPP-4 inhibitors compared with those receiving standard care ( 278 , 279 ). It should be noted that the absolute risk was small (0.13%), which would result in one to two additional cases of acute pancreatitis for every 1,000 patients treated for 2 years ( 279 ). Thus, pancreatitis appears to be a rare side effect of DPP-4 inhibitors. In patients on DPP-4 inhibitors who have GI symptoms suggestive of pancreatitis further evaluation is indicated. The diagnosis of acute pancreatitis requires the presence of two of the following three criteria: acute onset of persistent, severe, epigastric pain often radiating to the back, elevation in serum lipase or amylase to three times or greater than the upper limit of normal, and characteristic findings of acute pancreatitis on imaging ( 280 ). ARTHRALGIA Severe and disabling arthralgia in patients taking DPP-4 inhibitors has been reported ( 281 ). The time to onset of symptoms following initiation of drug therapy varied from one day to years. Patients experienced relief of symptoms upon discontinuation of the medication and a subset of patients experienced a recurrence of symptoms when restarting the same drug or a different DPP-4 inhibitor. If a patient develops severe joint
