Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


discontinuation of the medication and a subset of patients experienced a recurrence of symptoms when restarting the same drug or a different DPP-4 inhibitor. If a patient develops severe joint pain discontinue the DPP-4 inhibitor. Contraindications and Drug Interactions It is unknown whether patients with a history of pancreatitis or who are at increased risk for the development of pancreatitis should be started on DPP-4 inhibitors. Given the availability of other hypoglycemic drugs many clinicians avoid the use of DPP-4 inhibitors in these patients. The dosage of saxagliptin is 2.5 mg once daily when co-administered with a strong cytochrome P450 3A4/5 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, and telithromycin) (package insert). Summary DPP-4 inhibitors, while not the most potent drugs at lowering A1c, nevertheless are very attractive to use in the treatment of patients with T2DM as they are safe drugs that do not have many side effects. They do not cause hypoglycemia, weight gain, or cardiovascular disease. Unfortunately, they do not reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease or prevent loss of renal function. Table 19. Advantages and Disadvantages of DPP-4 Inhibitors View in own window Advantages Disadvantages No hypoglycemia Pancreatic disease Weight neutral Heart failure (saxagliptin/alogliptin)? Decreases postprandial glucose Arthritis Once a day Bullous pemphigoid Well tolerated Modest glycemic lowering Decreases BP INJECTABLE GLUCAGON LIKE PROTEIN-1 (GLP-1) RECEPTOR AGONISTS Introduction Six GLP-1 RAs were developed, three drugs administered daily and three drugs administered weekly ( Figure 7 ). Albiglutide (Tanzeum) and Bydureon were withdrawn from the market for commercial reasons and are no longer available. In the United States the FDA has approved exenatide and liraglutide as generic drugs. GLP-1 RAs can be used in combination with multiple oral anti‐diabetic drugs or in combination with insulin ( 282 ). The circulating concentrations of GLP-1 RA activity are much higher than physiological levels of GLP-1 activity ( 22 ). The GLP-1 RAs that are similar to exendin-4 (Exenatide and Lixisenatide) are eliminated by the kidneys and therefore in patients with severe renal disease these drugs are contraindicated ( 22 ). In contrast, the drugs that are analogues of GLP-1 are degraded by peptidases ( 22 ). Figure 7. Structure of GLP-1 Receptor Agonists. SHORT ACTING GLP-1 RECEPTOR AGONISTS Exenatide (Byetta) is a synthetic exendin-4 that is a peptide originally isolated from the saliva of the Gila monster that has a 53% homology with human GLP-1
