Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


GLP-1 RECEPTOR AGONISTS Exenatide (Byetta) is a synthetic exendin-4 that is a peptide originally isolated from the saliva of the Gila monster that has a 53% homology with human GLP-1 and is resistant to degradation by DPP-4 ( 22 , 282 ). Lixisenatide (Adylyxin) is an exendin-4 analogue with six Lys residues added at the C terminus to confer resistance to DPP-4 ( 22 , 282 ). LONG ACTING GLP-1 RECPTOR AGONISTS Even though liraglutide (Victoza) is administered daily it is considered a long acting GLP-1 RA because its effects on fasting glucose levels are similar to weekly GLP-1 RAs and its effects on gastric emptying wane as seen with weekly GLP-1 RAs. Liraglutide is an analogue of GLP-1 with the addition of a 16-carbon fatty acid chain that masks the DPP-4 cleavage site preventing degradation ( 8 , 179 ). Once weekly exenatide (Bydureon and Bydueron BCise) is a sustained-release formulation that consists of exenatide embedded within biodegradable polymeric microspheres of poly (DL-lactic-co-glycolic acid) ( 22 ). Dulaglutide (Trulicity) has two copies of a GLP-1 analogue covalently linked to an Fc fragment of human IgG4 ( 22 , 282 ). Semaglutide (Ozempic) is an analogue of human GLP‐1 RA and is linked via a hydrophilic spacer and a fatty acid side chain to albumin ( 282 ). For information on the use of GLP-1 RAs for the treatment of weight loss see the Endotext chapter entitled “Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults” ( 283 ). Administration SHORT ACTING GLP-1 RECEPTOR AGONISTS Initiate exenatide at 5 ug twice daily; increase to 10 ug twice daily after 1 month based on clinical response. Inject subcutaneously within 60 minutes prior to morning and evening meals (or before the two main meals of the day). The starting dose of lixisenatide is 10 ug subcutaneously once daily within one hour before the first meal of the day for 14 days and then increase the dose to the maintenance dose of 20 ug once daily. LONG ACTING GLP-1 RECPTOR AGONISTS Initiate liraglutide with a dose of 0.6 mg per day for one week. After one week at 0.6 mg per day, the dose should be increased to 1.2 mg. If the 1.2 mg dose does not result in acceptable glycemic control, the dose can be increased to 1.8 mg. Inject subcutaneously once-daily at any time of day, independently of meals. The recommended initiating
