Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


dose does not result in acceptable glycemic control, the dose can be increased to 1.8 mg. Inject subcutaneously once-daily at any time of day, independently of meals. The recommended initiating dose of dulaglutide is 0.75 mg subcutaneously with or without food once weekly. The dose may be increased to 1.5 mg once weekly to achieve glycemic control. If after 4 weeks glycemic control is not achieved the dose can be increased to 3.0 mg once weekly and then after another 4 weeks to 4.5 mg once weekly for additional glycemic control. The recommended initiating dose of semaglutide is 0.25 mg subcutaneous injection with or without food once weekly for 4 weeks. The 0.25 mg dose is intended for treatment initiation and is not effective for glycemic control. After 4 weeks on the 0.25 mg dose, increase the dosage to 0.5 mg once weekly. If additional glycemic control is needed after at least 4 weeks on the 0.5 mg dose, the dosage may be slowly increased to 2 mg once weekly (note the maximum dose for the treatment of obesity is 2.4mg). A randomized study has shown that starting at a lower dose (0.0675 mg measured as five clicks made by the dose selector dial and titrating slowly improves adherence and reduces adverse events without compromising efficacy ( 284 ). Note that exenatide and lixisenatide are contraindicated in patients with renal dysfunction (for details see Contraindications section). Mechanism of Action GLP-1 RAs potentiate glucose dependent insulin secretion increasing insulin levels and lowering glucose levels ( 22 ). In addition, GLP-1 RAs potentiate the glucose dependent inhibition of glucagon secretion, which will also lower glucose levels ( 22 ). Finally, because of the supraphysiological levels of GLP-1 activity, GLP-1 RAs may delay gastric emptying resulting in a decrease in postprandial glucose levels and induce satiety, which will decrease food intake ( 22 ). As discussed below, GLP-1 RAs have beneficial effects on atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, heart failure, renal disease, metabolic dysfunction associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), osteoarthritis, etc. The mechanism(s) accounting for these beneficial effects is uncertain but is likely multifactorial with reductions in glycated hemoglobin, systolic blood pressure, postprandial triglyceride levels, inflammation, and the direct effect of activation of GLP-1 receptors in various tissues contributing. Additionally the weight loss induced by treatment with GLP-1 RAs likely plays an important role in mediating some of these beneficial effects. Glycemic Efficacy GLP-1 RAs
