Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


with basal insulin plus GLP-1 RA were less likely to experience symptomatic hypoglycemia (OR: 0.52; p < 0.0001) and severe hypoglycemia (OR: 0.27; p = 0.07) than those treated with basal insulin plus rapid acting insulin. Thus, adding a GLP-1 RA to basal insulin instead of bolus insulin will result in similar improvements in glycemic control with fewer side effects. Studies have also compared adding insulin therapy vs. adding a GLP-1 RA. In a meta-analysis of 19 studies GLP-1 RAs reduced A1c levels slightly more than insulin therapy (difference -0.12%, P < .0001) ( 288 ). As expected, hypoglycemia was less frequent in patients treated with the GLP-1 RAs. Because the effect of GLP‐1 RAs on insulin and glucagon secretion are glucose dependent they have a low potential to cause hypoglycemia ( 22 , 282 ). The risk of hypoglycemia increases when GLP-1 RAs are used in combination with insulin or insulin secretagogues ( 282 ). Both GLP-1 RAs and SGLT-2 inhibitors have been shown to decrease cardiovascular disease (GLP-1 RAs primarily decrease atherosclerotic complications while SGLT-2 inhibitors primarily decrease heart failure). Therefore, the use of these drugs in combination to prevent cardiovascular disease has been proposed. In an analysis of four randomized trials adding a GLP-1 RA to a SGLT-2 inhibitor it was reported that the addition of a GLP-1 receptor agonist resulted in a greater reduction in HbA1c (-0.74%), body weight (-1.61 kg), and systolic blood pressure (-3.32 mmHg) demonstrating the benefits of using these drugs in combination ( 289 ). Other Effects WEIGHT LOSS GLP-1 RAs induce weight loss ( 22 , 282 ). A comparison of the ability of the maximum dose of different GLP-1 RAs to induce weight loss are shown in table 20 . It should be recognized that the weight loss shown in Table 20 represents averages. In clinical practice some patients lose a large amount of weight with GLP-1 RAs while other patients can actually gain weight. Higher doses of liraglutide and semaglutide are approved for the treatment of obesity, which is discussed in the Endotext chapter “Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults” ( 290 ). Studies have compared the effect of high doses of GLP-1 RAs used for weight loss and lower doses used for treating diabetes ( table 21 ). In general, higher doses of GLP-1 RAs result in a modest further lowering of A1c and a more
