Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


small and therefore larger studies are required to address this important issue. Summary The Flow trial in combination with the other trials demonstrates that GLP-1 RAs have beneficial effects on kidney function decreasing albuminuria and slowing the decrease in eGFR. A pooled analysis of the LEADER (liraglutide) and SUSTAIN 6 trials found a preservation in eGFR with GLP-1 RAs, particularly in patients with a reduced baseline eGFR ( 327 ). Moreover, the FLOW trial demonstrated a decrease in clinically important kidney outcomes including kidney failure (dialysis, transplantation, or an eGFR of <15 ml), a 50% reduction in the eGFR, or death from kidney-related causes. Similar beneficial effects on renal function have been observed in patients with obesity without diabetes (SELECT trial) treated with semaglutide ( 328 ). Specifically, there was a 22% decrease in the development of the composite kidney endpoint (death from kidney disease, initiation of chronic kidney replacement therapy, onset of persistent eGFR) < 15, persistent ≥50% reduction in eGFR or onset of persistent macroalbuminuria), primarily due to a reduction in persistent macroalbuminuria, in the semaglutide group compared to placebo. In patients with chronic kidney disease without diabetes semaglutide treatment reduced urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio by 52% ( 329 ). METABOLIC DYSFUNCTION ASSOCIATED STEATOTIC LIVER DISEASE (MASLD) AND METABOLIC DYSFUNCTION ASSOCIATED STEATOHEPATITIS (MASH) Studies have suggested that GLP-1 RAs have beneficial effects on MASLD and MASH ( 107 ). A meta-analysis of liraglutide studies and a separate meta-analysis of lixisenatide studies have reported that these drugs decrease liver enzymes ( 330 , 331 ). A 12-week randomized trial in 60 patients with MASLD of exenatide + basal insulin vs. rapid acting insulin + basal insulin demonstrated lower liver enzymes in the exenatide treated group ( 332 ). Moreover, the reversal rate of fatty liver was greater in the group treated with exenatide (93.3%) than the intensive insulin group (66.7%) (p < 0.01). Similarly, liraglutide and dulaglutide have also been shown to decrease intrahepatic fat ( 333 - 335 ). In the LEAN Trial 52 patients with MASH were randomized to liraglutide 1.8 mg daily or placebo and followed for 48 weeks ( 336 ). Resolution of MASH occurred in 39% of patients treated with liraglutide and only 9% of patients in the placebo group (RR 4.3; p=0.019). Progression of fibrosis occurred in 9% of patients in the liraglutide group versus 36% of patients in the placebo group (p=0.04). A
