Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


is possible that GLP-1 directly affects joints to improve osteoarthritis ( 340 ). SUBSTANCE USE DISORDERS Numerous studies have shown that GLP-1 RAs reduce alcohol intake in mice, rats, and nonhuman primates ( 341 - 343 ). Similar beneficial effects have been seen with other drugs such as heroin, fentanyl, nicotine, and cocaine in various animal models ( 341 , 342 , 344 ). There are also a number of observational and anecdotal reports in humans that GLP-1 RAs favorably affect substance abuse disorders ( 341 , 343 - 345 ). However, there are very few randomized trials demonstrating that GLP-1 RAs are beneficial in patients with substance use disorders. The randomized studies that administered GLP-1 RAs for an extended period of time and determined their effect on substance use disorders are briefly described below. While these studies are not definitive and further research is required and is ongoing it is important that endocrinologists are aware of these potential effects. Nicotine Yammine et al studied eighty-four prediabetic and/or overweight smokers on daily nicotine patches (21mg) randomized to extended release exenatide 2 mg or placebo for 6 weeks ( 346 ). Exenatide increased smoking abstinence compared to placebo (46.3% and 26.8%, respectively) and reduced end-of-treatment craving in the overall sample and withdrawal among abstainers. Lengsfeld et al randomized 255 participants to dulaglutide 1.5mg or placebo for 12 weeks ( 347 ). No difference was observed in the abstinence rate at week 12 nor was there a difference in craving for smoking in the dulaglutide and placebo groups. In the study by Hendershot et al described in the ethanol section below it was noted that “semaglutide treatment predicted greater relative reductions in cigarettes per day in a subsample of individuals with current cigarette use” ( 348 ). Ethanol Klausen et al randomized 127 patients with alcohol use disorder to exenatide (2 mg subcutaneously) or placebo once weekly for 26 weeks ( 349 ). While exenatide did not significantly reduce the number of heavy drinking days in the entire group exenatide significantly reduced heavy drinking days and total alcohol intake in obese patients (BMI > 30 kg/m 2 ). Hendershot et al randomized 48 participants with alcohol use disorder to semaglutide (0.25 mg/week for 4 weeks, 0.5 mg/week for 4 weeks, and 1.0 mg for 1 week) or placebo for 9 weeks ( 348 ). Low-dose semaglutide (0.5mg) reduced the amount of alcohol
