Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


reported an increased risk of gall bladder or biliary tract disease ( 296 , 299 , 355 ), however the large cardiovascular trial with semaglutide (SUSTAIN 6) did not observe an increase ( 298 ). It has been hypothesized that weight loss and/or decreased gallbladder motility induced by GLP-1 RAs could contribute to this increase in gall bladder disease. INJECTION-SITE REACTIONS Injection-site reactions (rash, erythema) are also common with GLP-1 RAs ( 22 ). Subcutaneous injection-site nodules may occur with the use of weekly exenatide (package insert), an abnormality that is due to the formulation. MEDULLARY THYROID CANCER Thyroid C-cell hyperplasia and medullary cell carcinoma has also been raised as possible concerns based on preclinical studies in rodents, but clinical studies in humans have not shown any indication of thyroid disorders ( 22 ). A meta-analysis of the four large cardiovascular outcome studies described above did not demonstrate an increased risk of medullary thyroid cancer with GLP-1 RA treatment ( 356 ) PANCREATITIS Subclinical increases in pancreatic enzyme levels are commonly observed with all GLP‐1 RAs and pancreatitis has been reported ( 282 ). Importantly increases in lipase and amylase were not predictive of subsequent pancreatitis ( 357 ). A meta-analysis of four large cardiovascular outcome studies described above did not demonstrate an increased risk of pancreatitis or pancreatic cancer with GLP-1 RA treatment ( 356 , 358 ). A meta-analysis of all seven cardiovascular outcome studies also did not demonstrate an increase in pancreatitis with GLP-1 RA treatment ( 359 ). RETINOPATHY In the SUSTAIN 6 trial described above the rates of retinopathy complications (vitreous hemorrhage, blindness, or conditions requiring treatment with an intravitreal agent or photocoagulation) were significantly higher in the semaglutide group compared to the placebo group (hazard ratio, 1.76; P=0.02) ( 298 ). This increased risk of retinopathy complications has been attributed to the magnitude and rapidity of A1c reduction during the first 16 weeks of treatment in patients who had pre-existing retinopathy and poor glycemic control at baseline (“early worsening”) ( 360 ). A meta-analysis of GLP-1 RA cardiovascular trials found an association between retinopathy and the magnitude of A1c reduction supporting the hypothesis that the increase in retinopathy in SUSTAIN 6 was due to lowering of A1c ( 361 ). Of note, other trials using semaglutide did not observe an increased risk of retinopathy ( 360 ). Additionally, an increase in diabetic retinopathy was
