Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


lowering of A1c ( 361 ). Of note, other trials using semaglutide did not observe an increased risk of retinopathy ( 360 ). Additionally, an increase in diabetic retinopathy was not observed in the other cardiovascular outcome trials ( 296 , 297 , 299 , 300 ). In a meta-analysis of 60 studies with 60,077 patients, treatment with GLP-1RAs did not increase the incidence of diabetic retinopathy, macular edema, retinal detachment, or retinal hemorrhage ( 362 ). However, the incidence of vitreous hemorrhage was higher in subjects treated with GLP-1 RAs compared with placebo (odds ratios 1.93; 95% CI 1.09 to 3.42). Thus, it is possible that GLP-1 RA treatment results in an increase in diabetic eye disease. A 5-year eye safety study for semaglutide, the FOCUS trial ( NCT03811561 ), is currently underway and should provide a definitive answer. RISKS RELATED TO ANESTHESIA As discussed above GLP-1 RAs slow gastric emptying and the retention of gastric contents could increase the risk of aspiration during surgical procedures. The American Society of Anesthesiologists recommended “For patients on daily dosing consider holding GLP-1 agonists on the day of the procedure/surgery. For patients on weekly dosing consider holding GLP-1 agonists a week prior to the procedure/surgery. This suggestion is irrespective of the indication (type 2 diabetes mellitus or weight loss), dose, or the type of procedure/surgery. If the patient has no GI symptoms, but the GLP-1 agonists were not held as advised, proceed with ‘full stomach’ precautions…” ( 363 ). A clinical practice update by the American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) pointed out the lack of meaningful data and that well-designed studies investigating patients on GLP-1 RAs are needed ( 363 ). In the absence of definitive data they advised that patients on GLP-1 RAs who have followed standard perioperative procedures and who do not have symptoms of nausea, vomiting, dyspepsia, or abdominal distention, to proceed with upper and/or lower endoscopy. In patients with symptoms suggesting possible retained gastric contents, transabdominal ultrasonography can be used to assess the presence of stomach contents but evidence to support this is lacking. Rapid-sequence intubation can be considered if there is uncertainty. “Lastly, when possible, placing patients on a liquid diet the day before sedated procedures may be a more acceptable strategy, in lieu of stopping GLP-1 RAs, and more consistent with the holistic preprocedural management of other similar conditions.” Recent recommendations also indicate that one can continue
