Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


a more acceptable strategy, in lieu of stopping GLP-1 RAs, and more consistent with the holistic preprocedural management of other similar conditions.” Recent recommendations also indicate that one can continue the GLP-1 RAs but if possible have a 24-h clear fluid diet, followed by standard 6-h fasting prior to anesthesia ( 364 , 365 ). Clearly this is an area that requires additional studies and health care providers will need to use their judgement in deciding how to manage anesthesia in patients taking GLP-1 RAs. SUICIDE Concerns have been raised that GLP-1 RAs increase the risk of suicide and self-harm. A large cohort study compared 124,517 patients started on a GLP-1 RA and 174,036 patients started on an SGLT2 inhibitor and did not find an association between use of GLP-1 RAs and an increased risk of suicide death, self-harm, or incident depression and anxiety-related disorders ( 366 ). Other studies have reported similar results ( 367 - 369 ). Contraindications and Drug Interactions RENAL Care needs to be exercised in patients with severe renal disease as they are more susceptible to the side effects of GLP-1 RAs and more likely to have serious side effects (package inserts). There is limited data in patients with end stage renal disease. Exenatide should not be used in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease (package insert). Caution should be applied when initiating or escalating doses of exenatide from 5 mcg to 10 mcg in patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30 to 50 mL/min) (package insert). Weekly exenatide is not recommended for use in patients with eGFR below 45 mL/min/1.73m2 or end stage renal disease (package insert). Lixisenatide is not recommended in patients with end stage renal disease (eGFR <15 mL/min/1.73 m2) (package insert). No dose adjustments for liraglutide, semaglutide, or dulaglutide are recommended for patients with renal impairment (package insert). OTHER Exenatide is not recommended in patients with gastroparesis or severe gastrointestinal disease (package insert). In patients with a history of pancreatitis or at high risk for pancreatitis many clinicians avoid GLP-1 RAs. GLP-1 RAs are contraindicated in patients with a personal or family history of Medullary Thyroid Cancer and in patients with Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia syndrome type 2 (MEN 2) (package insert). Summary The ability of GLP-1 RAs to effectively decrease A1c levels, reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, heart failure, renal disease, and induce
