Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


Endocrine Neoplasia syndrome type 2 (MEN 2) (package insert). Summary The ability of GLP-1 RAs to effectively decrease A1c levels, reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, heart failure, renal disease, and induce significant weight loss make these drugs very attractive in the treatment of patients with T2DM. Additionally, once weekly administration for certain drugs in this class can improve compliance. Table 25. Advantages and Disadvantages of GLP- 1 Receptor Agonists View in own window Advantages Disadvantages Weight Loss GI side effects No Hypoglycemia Requires Injection Reduce CVD (liraglutide, semaglutide, dulaglutide) Pancreatitis? Improve MASLD Thyroid cancer? Once a week therapy possible Gall bladder disease Decrease renal disease Expensive Decrease postprandial glucose Improve heart failure ORAL GLUCAGON LIKE PROTEIN-1 (GLP-1) RECEPTOR AGONISTS Introduction I n 2019 an oral form of semaglutide (Rybelsus) became available. To facilitate absorption of semaglutide, which is a 31 amino acid peptide, the tablet contains a permeation enhancer N-(8-[2-hydroxybenzoyl]amino)caprylic acid (SNAC, Eligen® Technology, Emisphere Technologies), which is a small fatty acid derivative that accelerates the absorption of semaglutide across the gastric epithelium avoiding the activation of proteolytic enzymes and pH-induced degradation in the stomach ( 370 ). This allows for the absorption of an intact peptide. One should note that the bioavailability of oral semaglutide is very low as the dose of oral semaglutide is 7-14 mg per day vs 0.5-2.0 mg once a week with the injectable dose. Administration The oral form of semaglutide must be taken at least 30 minutes before the first food, beverage, or other oral medications of the day with no more than 4 ounces of plain water (package insert). Waiting less than 30 minutes, or taking with food, beverages (other than plain water), or other oral medications will adversely affect the absorption of semaglutide. Waiting more than 30 minutes to eat may increase the absorption. The starting dose is 3 mg once daily for 30 days. After 30 days on the 3 mg dose, increase the dose to 7 mg once daily. The dose may be increased to 14 mg once daily if additional glycemic control is needed after at least 30 days on the 7 mg dose (package insert). Patients treated with once weekly semaglutide 0.5 mg injections can be transitioned to oral semaglutide 7 mg or 14 mg a day. No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with renal or hepatic impairment (package insert). Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action is
