Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


is contraindicated in patients with a personal or family history of medullary thyroid carcinoma or in patients with Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia syndrome type 2. No notable drug interactions have been described (package insert). Summary The delivery of a GLP1 RA via the oral route is advantageous and makes oral semaglutide an attractive choice in the treatment of patients with T2DM who do want to inject medications given its ability to decrease A1c, body weight, and blood pressure with few serious side effects. Some patients may have difficulty following the relatively complex instructions for taking this medication. It should be noted that weight loss is less with oral semaglutide and studies using higher doses for weight loss are underway. It is likely that the other beneficial effects of GLP1 receptor agonists (e.g., reducing cardiovascular disease and renal disease) will also occur with the oral formulation. DUEL GLP-1 RECEPTOR AND GIP RECEPTOR AGONIST Introduction Tirzepatide (Mounjaro) is a 39 amino acid peptide that was engineered from the native GIP sequence and has agonist activity at both the GIP and GLP-1 receptors ( 383 , 384 ). A C20 fatty diacid moiety is conjugated at the position 20 lysine residue, which facilitates binding to albumin thereby resulting in a half-life after administration of approximately 5 days allowing for weekly administration ( 383 , 384 ). For information on the use of tirzepatide for the treatment of weight loss see the Endotext chapter entitled “Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults” ( 283 ). Administration Tirzepatide is administered weekly at any time of day, with or without meals. The starting dose is 2.5mg subcutaneously and after 4 weeks the dose is increased to 5 mg ( 384 ). Depending upon the response one may increase the dosage in 2.5 mg increments every 4 weeks to a maximum dose of 15 mg per week ( 384 ). No dosage adjustment is recommended for renal or hepatic disease (package insert). Mechanism of Action Both GLP-1 and GIP stimulate insulin secretion in a glucose dependent fashion ( 385 ). The higher the glucose the greater the effect with no effect when glucose levels are in the normal to low range ( 385 ). As one would expect tirzepatide stimulates both first- and second-phase insulin secretion ( 384 , 386 ). GLP-1 inhibits glucagon secretion when glucose levels are increased while GIP will stimulate glucagon secretion, particularly
