Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


end points were a composite of death from cardiovascular causes or a worsening heart failure and the change from baseline to 52 weeks in the Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire. Death from cardiovascular causes or a worsening heart-failure were reduced in the tirzepatide group (HR 0.62; 95%; CI 0.41 to 0.95; P = 0.026). Worsening heart-failure events in the tirzepatide group were markedly reduced (HR 0.54; 95% CI, 0.34 to 0.85) while there was no significant difference in cardiovascular deaths. Additionally, there was an improvement in the Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire score in the tirzepatide group. The beneficial effects were similar in patients with and without diabetes. The mechanisms accounting for this improvement is uncertain but could be related to reductions in body weight, systolic blood pressure, postprandial triglyceride levels, inflammation, or the direct effect of activation of GLP-1 receptors on the myocardium. RENAL DISEASE A post-hoc analysis of the SURPASS-4 compared the effect of tirzepatide and glargine insulin on kidney function with a median treatment duration of treatment of 85 weeks ( 401 ). The mean rate of eGFR decline was -1.4 per year in the combined tirzepatide groups and -3.6 per year in the insulin group (between-group difference 2.2 [95% CI 1.6 to 2.8]) with a greater benefit in participants with eGFR < 60 (i.e., patients with pre-existing kidney disease). It should be noted that tirzepatide treatment resulted in an early decrease in eGFR, however, after 12 weeks eGFR values were higher in the tirzepatide group than in the glargine insulin group. Additionally, urine albumin to creatinine ratio in the glargine insulin group increased but in the tirzepatide treated group there was very little change. The UACR stabilizing effect of tirzepatide was similar in SGLT2 inhibitor users vs. non-users suggesting that these drugs will have additive beneficial effects on kidney function. The SURPASS 1, 3, and 5 trials similarly showed beneficial effects on urine albumin to creatinine ratio. The SURPASS 2 trial compared tirzepatide and semaglutide and there was no difference in the urine albumin to creatinine ratio. The effect of tirzepatide on urine albumin to creatinine ratio and eGFR did not appear to be mediated by changes in HbA1c or bodyweight. Most importantly, tirzepatide reduced the risk of the composite kidney endpoint of new-onset macroalbuminuria, eGFR decline of at least 40%, end-stage kidney disease, or death due to kidney failure by 42% (HR 0.58; 95% CI 0.43–0.80), mainly
