Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


55% of the 5-mg tirzepatide group, 51% of the 10-mg tirzepatide group, and 51% of the 15-mg tirzepatide group. As seen in other studies alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase decreased by approximately 50% and liver fat by 40-50% in patients treated with tirzepatide compared to placebo. These studies suggest that tirzepatide will have beneficial effects in patients with metabolic dysfunction associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) and MASH. OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA In individuals who were not diabetic but were obese with moderate-to-severe obstructive sleep apnea, treatment with tirzepatide resulted in “a clinically meaningful change in sleep-disordered breathing and alleviation of perceived sleep disturbance and sleep-related impairment, as well as reductions in common obstructive sleep apnea-related cardiovascular risk factors” ( 405 ). Hopefully future studies will determine if similar beneficial effects with tirzepatide treatment occur in patients with diabetes and obstructive sleep apnea. Side Effects The side effects described in the section on GLP-1 RAs also are of concern with tirzepatide. Patients treated with tirzepatide in combination with a sulfonylurea or insulin may have an increased risk of hypoglycemia. The risk of hypoglycemia may be decreased by a reduction in sulfonylurea or insulin dose. The incidence of pancreatitis was increased in patients treated with tirzepatide compared to comparator treatment ((0.23 patients per 100 years of exposure vs. 0.11 patients per 100 years of exposure) (package insert). Additionally, acute gallbladder disease (cholelithiasis, biliary colic, and cholecystectomy) was increased with tirzepatide treatment (0.6% of tirzepatide-treated patients and 0% of placebo-treated patients) (package insert). As with other GLP-1 RAs nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, dyspepsia, constipation, and decreased appetite are common side effects. Contraindications and Drug Interactions Tirzepatide is contraindicated in patients with a personal or family history of medullary thyroid carcinoma or in patients with MEN2. Tirzepatide has not been studied in patients with a prior history of pancreatitis and it is unknown if patients with a history of pancreatitis are at higher risk for developing pancreatitis. Tirzepatide delays gastric emptying and thereby has the potential to impact the absorption of concomitantly administered oral medications. The delay is largest after the first dose and diminishes over time. Summary The major advantage of tirzepatide compared to GLP-1 RAs is the greater decrease in weight and A1c levels. INSULIN-GLP-1 RECEPTOR AGONIST COMBINATIONS Introduction There are currently two insulin-GLP-1 RA combinations available for use; glargine insulin/lixisenatide (iGlarLixi) (Soliqua) and degludec insulin/liraglutide (iDegLira) (Xultophy). Both combine basal insulin with a
