Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


by the GLP-1 receptor agonist (the max dose of iDegLira delivers 1.8 mg of liraglutide while the max dose of iGlarLixa delivers 20 ug of lixisenatide). Conversely, there may be some patients who require only a low dose of basal insulin and thus because of the fixed ratio of basal insulin to GLP-1 RA the dose of the GLP-1 receptor agonist may be too low. These examples are a limitation of fixed ratio delivery systems. In these patients one can use basal insulin and a GLP-1 receptor agonist independently. It should be noted that for the majority of patients the fixed ratio will be acceptable. Summary The effects of combination therapy are predictable based on studies of basal insulin and GLP-1 RAs but providing them in a single injection provides convenience and makes it easier for patients to comply. Additionally, these combination drugs are titrated based on fasting glucose values and therefore frequent home blood glucose monitoring is not required, which also makes compliance easier. In patients who do not have adequate control on basal insulin alone or a GLP-1 RAs alone combination therapy can be a useful therapeutic option. BILE ACID SEQUESTRANTS Introduction Colesevelam (Welchol) is a non-absorbed, polymeric, LDL cholesterol lowering and glucose lowering agent that is a high-capacity bile acid-binding molecule ( 413 ). This drug was developed primarily to lower LDL cholesterol levels and was later noted to have favorable effects on blood glucose levels and was approved for improving glycemic control in patients with T2DM ( 22 , 413 ). It should be noted that other bile acid sequestrants (cholestyramine) also have favorable effects on glycemic control ( 414 ). Administration The recommended dose of colesevelam is 6 tablets once daily or 3 tablets twice daily with meals (tabs 625 mg). Alternatively, one can take one 3.75-gram packet once daily mixed with water, fruit juice, or diet soft drinks and taken with meals or one flavored chewable bar (80 calories per bar) with meals. For patients with difficulty swallowing tablets the use of packets or chewable bars is recommended. Mechanism of Action The mechanism by which bile acid sequestrants improve glucose metabolism is not well understood and the literature on this topic is often contradictory ( 415 , 416 ). Colesevelam does not alter hepatic or peripheral insulin sensitivity or decrease glucose GI absorption ( 416 , 417 ). Neither acute nor chronic treatment affect
