Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


weight ( 413 ). In combination with metformin hypoglycemia is not a problem but when used in combination with insulin or sulfonylureas hypoglycemia may occur ( 413 ). Other Effects LIPIDS Colesevelam lowers LDL cholesterol levels by 15-20% and has only a modest effect on HDL cholesterol levels ( 413 , 424 ). The effect of bile acid sequestrants on triglyceride levels varies ( 424 ). In patients with normal triglyceride levels, bile acid sequestrants increase triglyceride levels by a small amount. However, as baseline triglyceride levels increase, the effect of bile acid sequestrants on plasma triglyceride levels becomes greater, and can result in substantial increases in triglyceride levels ( 424 ). In patients with triglycerides > 500mg/dl the use of bile acid sequestrants is contraindicated ( 424 ). CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE There have been no randomized studies that have examined the effect of bile acid sequestrants on cardiovascular end points in subjects with diabetes. In non-diabetic-subjects bile acid sequestrants have reduced cardiovascular events ( 425 , 426 ). Since bile acid sequestrants have a similar beneficial impact on serum lipid levels in diabetic and non-diabetic subjects one would anticipate that these drugs would also result in a reduction in events in the diabetic population. Side Effects Colesevelam does not have major systemic side effects as it is not absorbed and remains in the intestinal tract ( 424 ). However, it does cause gastrointestinal (GI) side effects ( 424 ). Constipation is a common side effect and can be severe. In addition, patients will often complain of bloating, dyspepsia, abdominal discomfort, and aggravation of hemorrhoids. Because of GI distress, a small number of patients will discontinue therapy with colesevelam. One can reduce or ameliorate these GI side effects by increasing hydration, adding fiber to the diet (psyllium), and using stool softeners. Contraindications and Drug Interactions Colesevelam treatment is contraindicated in patients with a history of bowel obstruction and is cautioned in those with a history of gastrointestinal motility disorders (i.e., gastroparesis) or gastrointestinal surgery ( 413 , 424 ). Colesevelam is contraindicated in patients with plasma triglyceride levels > 500 mg/dL or a history of hypertriglyceridemia-induced pancreatitis (package insert). In the intestine bile acid sequestrants can impede the absorption of many other drugs ( 424 ). Colesevelam, which requires a much lower quantity of drug because of its high affinity and binding capacity for bile salts, has less of an effect
