Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


other drugs ( 424 ). Colesevelam, which requires a much lower quantity of drug because of its high affinity and binding capacity for bile salts, has less of an effect on the absorption of other drugs than other bile acid sequestrants but can still adversely affect the absorption of certain drugs ( Table 30 ) ( 424 ). Administration of these drugs, as well as vitamin supplements, 4 hours prior to administration of colesevelam minimizes pharmacokinetic interactions ( 424 ). This is particularly important with drugs that have a narrow toxic/therapeutic window, such as thyroid hormone, digoxin, or warfarin. It can be difficult for some patients, particularly those on multiple medications, to take colesevelam given the need to separate pill ingestion. Table 30. Drugs Affected by Colesevelam View in own window L-thyroxine Cyclosporine Glimepiride Glipizide Glyburide Phenytoin Olmesartan Warfarin Oral contraceptives Repaglinide Fenofibrate Vitamin Supplements Colesevelam may also decrease the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K (package insert). Summary Colesevelam has the advantage of lowering both A1c and LDL cholesterol levels. However, the efficacy of lowering A1c and LDL cholesterol levels is modest compared to other drugs. Additionally, in our patients with diabetes who are often on multiple medications it can be difficult to coordinate taking colesevelam with these other medications. Table 31. Advantages and Disadvantages of Colesevelam View in own window Advantages Disadvantages Lowers LDL cholesterol Increases triglyceride levels particularly if already high Minimal systemic effects GI side effects Once a day administration possible Inhibits the absorption of other drugs No hypoglycemia Modest effect on A1c Weight neutral PRAMLINTIDE (SYMLIN) Introduction Pramlintide is a soluble synthetic analog of human amylin ( 427 ). Amylin is co-sequestered and co-secreted with insulin by the pancreatic beta cells in response to nutrient stimuli ( 427 ). Amylin secretion in response to nutrients is absent in type 1 diabetes and in patients with T2DM there is impaired beta-cell secretion of amylin in response to nutrients ( 427 ). Amylin suppresses post-prandial arginine-stimulated glucagon secretion, suppresses appetite, and slows gastric emptying time through effects on the brain ( 427 ). Administration In patients with T2DM initiate pramlintide at 60 ug subcutaneously immediately prior to each major meal. Increase the dose from 60 to 120 ug prior to each major meal when no clinically significant nausea has occurred for at least 3 days. Note the dose used to treat patients with Type
