Oral and Injectable (Non-Insulin) Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, glucose, inhibitors, levels, metformin, cardiovascular, risk, disease, failure, heart, insulin, renal, decrease, placebo, heart failure


60 to 120 ug prior to each major meal when no clinically significant nausea has occurred for at least 3 days. Note the dose used to treat patients with Type 1 diabetes differs from the dose used in patients with T2DM. In patients with Type 1 diabetes initiate therapy with 15ug prior to each meal and increase to a maximal dose of 30-60ug as tolerated. Mechanism of Action Pramlintide attenuates post-prandial glucagon secretion, enhances satiety, and reduces food intake, which together improve glycemic control ( 427 ). These effects are mediated centrally ( 427 ) Glycemic Efficacy In a review of three randomized trials in patients with T2DM comparing pramlintide vs. placebo the A1c level was decreased by approximately 0.3-0.6% in the pramlintide group ( 428 ). Postprandial glucose excursions are significantly blunted with the addition of pramlintide ( 427 ). Pramlintide has only minimal effects on fasting glucose levels ( 428 ). In a study comparing rapid acting insulin vs. pramlintide with meals a similar reduction in A1c was observed ( 429 ). In contrast to rapid acting insulin, patients treated with pramlintide did not gain weight ( 429 ). Additionally, the frequency of hypoglycemia was less with pramlintide compared with rapid acting insulin ( 429 ). Other Effects Pramlintide treatment decreases weight (approximately 1-3 kg), which is likely due to decreased food intake ( 427 , 428 ). In comparison of food intake during an ad libitum buffet meal, treatment with pramlintide resulted in an approximately 200 calorie decrease in food intake compared to placebo administration ( 430 ). Pramlintide also decreases gastric emptying ( 427 ). Side Effects A major side effect of pramlintide is nausea which can lead to patients discontinuing this drug ( 428 ). Although pramlintide alone does not cause hypoglycemia, in combination with rapid acting meal time insulin the two drugs synergistically increase the risk of severe hypoglycemia ( 427 ). Therefore, rapid acting meal time insulin needs to be reduced upon initiation of pramlintide treatment to decrease the risk of hypoglycemia ( 427 ). Reducing rapid acting meal time insulin by 30-50% is recommended during the initial dose titration period ( 427 ). Contraindications and Drug Interactions Pramlintide is contraindicated in patients with hypoglycemia unawareness and confirmed gastroparesis (package insert). Summary Pramlintide is currently seldom used. Its modest effect on A1c levels coupled with the difficulties of administration (extra injections) and side
