Heliyon9(2023)e20569
KEYWORDS: childhood, caregivers, children, diagnosis, treatment, symptoms, providers, tuberculosis, study, reported, patients, challenges, data, cough, diagnostic


form 28 September 2023; Accepted 29 September 2023 Availableonline30September2023 2405-8440/© 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( S.A. Shitol et al. H e l i y o n 9(2023)e20569 1. Introduction Although tuberculosis (TB) is infectious and curable, the disease burden of childhood TB remains underestimated as countries with high TB burdens lack notification data . In 2019, among reported cases worldwide and in Bangladesh, 8% of children were in childhood TB accounts for 10–15% of overall TB cases in countries with a higher TB burden [4–6]. In addition, the 3.2% of the multidrug-resistant (MDR)-TB global prevalence can be attributed to childhood TB . Despite having excellent treatment outcomes for most forms of TB, including drug-resistant (DR) TB in children , uptake of treatment is low due to challenges in case finding and prompt diagnosis. Childhood TB is a primary concern in Bangladesh, where poverty, childhood malnutrition, an increased number of adult tuberculosis cases, and a dense population are all high-risk factors . However, a paucity of data remains on the challenges experienced by caregivers and healthcare providers in the identification and diagnosis of childhood TB. Caregivers are the decision-makers of treatment-seeking for the childhood TB patient. The intention of care-seeking is influenced by the knowledge, presence, and severity of TB symptoms among the patients. Many studies have reported poor knowledge of TB among caregivers as a challenge while seeking treatment for their children . A study in Indonesia reported low screening practice for children with TB . This study also found a delay in taking childhood TB patients for treatment as the caregivers were unaware that their children’s signs and symptoms were of TB . A study in Delhi, India among childhood TB patients reported a median three days (range 1–300) delay between the onset of symptoms and a visit to a health provider . Caregivers of childhood TB patients have also reported diagnostic delay .A study in Pune, India among childhood TB pa- tients treated in a general hospital reported a median 51 days (interquartile range [IQR] 27–86) delay in time-to-treatment initiation . Provider’s low suspicion of TB, caregivers’ visits to multiple providers for a child to be diagnosed, provider’s lack of adherence to the national TB guidelines, provider’s lack of interaction with caregivers, long waiting time for caregivers, less frequent advice from providers, and caregivers’
