Heliyon9(2023)e20569
KEYWORDS: childhood, caregivers, children, diagnosis, treatment, symptoms, providers, tuberculosis, study, reported, patients, challenges, data, cough, diagnostic


to be diagnosed, provider’s lack of adherence to the national TB guidelines, provider’s lack of interaction with caregivers, long waiting time for caregivers, less frequent advice from providers, and caregivers’ dissatisfaction with TB service can delay diagnosis and treatment initiation . Delays in proper treatment-seeking and treatment initiation lead to severe health outcomes among the children . Mortality among children with TB is higher because of the gap between diagnosis and treatment . However, despite having policies in practice, childhood TB possibly remains under-identified and underdiagnosed in Bangladesh. It is globally established that diagnosis of childhood TB is a challenge due to the paucibacillary nature of TB, children’s incapacity to expectorate sputum and overlapping symptoms with non-TB pneumonia . Thus the children initially receive empirical medication [25–27]. Moreover, age and immunological sensitivities make children more susceptible to TB . Children usually contract the disease through close interactions with adult TB patients in the house or community . After being exposed to or infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis, children can acquire TB within one year . However, most children with TB remain undiagnosed and untreated because of poor access to diagnosis, treatment, and difficulty in diagnosis , which may be the case for between 2018 and 2019 . Moreover, delayed proper treatment , empirical medication including prescription of eccessive drug with unwanted side effects and ineffective treatment all contribute to the development of drug resistance in children. DR TB can serve as a reservoir for upcoming fatal cases . It can also negatively affect the physical and mental health of the children and their academic career . Moreover, there is inadequate evidence on the barriers to identifying and diagnosing childhood TB from caregivers’ and providers’ perspectives. The existing literature reports only the lack of knowledge of caregivers and transportation costs . A study in Dhaka at the BRAC urban directly observed therapy short course (DOTS) sites reported managerial officials’ frequent turnover in government, stigma, care-seeking delay, inadequate diagnostic facilities, and private practitioners’ limited involvement as challenges in the implementation of childhood TB control program . Therefore, an in-depth investigation of the experiences of both caregivers and providers in different geographical locations is needed to improve the early detection and inform better policies in screening, treatment, and management of childhood TB across the country. 2. METHODS 2.1. Study design The paper presents the qualitative findings of a mixed-method study with an integrated sequential
