Heliyon9(2023)e20569
KEYWORDS: childhood, caregivers, children, diagnosis, treatment, symptoms, providers, tuberculosis, study, reported, patients, challenges, data, cough, diagnostic


in screening, treatment, and management of childhood TB across the country. 2. METHODS 2.1. Study design The paper presents the qualitative findings of a mixed-method study with an integrated sequential explanatory design. First, a testing, screening, and advice received after diagnosis), the contact history of the childhood TB patient, besides sociodemographic information. This was followed by in-depth interviews (IDIs) with selected caregivers from the survey to investigate further the health- seeking practices, diagnosis and treatment and the challenges experienced while doing so. Finally, key informant interviews (KIIs) with implementers and providers also explored their challenges in identifying, treating, and managing TB. 2.2. Study site The research took place in six districts (three with high and three with low notification rates of childhood TB) from September 2020 to December 2020. Six sub-districts with the greatest number of childhood TB patients were chosen from the six districts for the research. Following this, two unions were selected from each selected sub-district. Since the prevalence of childhood TB is low, the purpose behind choosing the largest sub-district and union was to include as many childhood TB patients as possible in the survey. As a S.A. Shitol et al. H e l i y o n 9(2023)e20569 result, 12 unions from the six districts were selected. However, qualitative data collection took place in Keraniganj sub-district from Dhaka district (high notification region), Faridpur Sadar sub-district from Faridpur district (low notification region), and Dhaka city (to conduct KIIs among implementers) only to minimize travel during the COVID-19 pandemic. 2.3. Study participants We interviewed 111 households of childhood TB patients, where half were of male patients and the remaining female. Around 38% and 33% of children with TB were smear-negative and smear-positive, respectively. Twenty-eight percent of the children had extra- pulmonary TB. Only for one case, the type of TB could not be determined as the caregiver could not show the treatment card. Out of those who said that their child had symptoms (108 out of 111), the most reported symptoms were fever (n =93), followed by cough for more than two weeks (n =74) and loss of appetite (n =52). Around 32 caregivers also mentioned weight loss as one of the symptoms. Around 10 caregivers reported their child showed bulge on the body. Around 35 caregivers also mentioned other symptoms that include night sweat, coughing up blood, fatigue, leg pain, dizziness, and difficulty breathing. Forty-four participants were
