Heliyon9(2023)e20569
KEYWORDS: childhood, caregivers, children, diagnosis, treatment, symptoms, providers, tuberculosis, study, reported, patients, challenges, data, cough, diagnostic


child showed bulge on the body. Around 35 caregivers also mentioned other symptoms that include night sweat, coughing up blood, fatigue, leg pain, dizziness, and difficulty breathing. Forty-four participants were interviewed in depth in the qualitative phase. This number consisted of eight caregivers (who also particiapated in the survey earlier) (Table 1) of the diagnosed children with TB (aged 15 years or less whose treatment has been completed or is ongoing) (Table 2), seven implementers from national tuberculosis control programme (NTP), BRAC, and Damien activities of CHWs, and four informal providers (Table 3). During our selection for the IDIs of the caregivers, we attempted a good formal versus informal care as the first point of contact) and location (Keraniganj and Faridpur to minimize travel during the COVID-19 pandemic). During our selection of the KII participants, we attempted to include representatives from all levels of childhood TB idententification, treatment, and management. 2.4. Sampling Caregivers for the IDIs were purposively recruited from the survey respondents in Keraniganj and Faridpur, considering their diverse experiences in health-seeking. The key informants were enlisted from all levels of TB care delivery in Keraniganj and Faridpur to gain a comprehensive picture of how TB detection and associated challenges work. 2.5. Data collection The IDIs explored the caregivers’ experiences and challenges in care-seeking for TB. Healthcare providers’ and implementers were asked in the KIIs about their experiences in identifying and managing childhood TB. All the IDIs took place in person at the caregivers’ homes. Most KIIs were conducted in person, whereas the remaining took place over telephone calls and online using Google Meet. The guidelines included open-ended questions that required probing based on the participants’ responses. All interviewers received training before data collection. The IDIs and KIIs were conducted using pilot tested semi-structured Bangla guidelines and audio- recorded. Each interview lasted around 30 min. Notes were taken whenever possible. The research team regularly debriefed where the findings from the interviews were discussed in depth, and primary analysis was conducted following the debriefing. The primary analyses helped to understand what common findings and patterns were coming up and to what extent the data was getting saturated. The research team discontinued interviewing additional individuals after data saturation was attained. The research team also monitored the field activities. 2.6. Data analysis The audio-recorded interviews were transcribed verbatim. Data was analysed concurrently with data collection. A list of a priori codes was
