Heliyon9(2023)e20569
KEYWORDS: childhood, caregivers, children, diagnosis, treatment, symptoms, providers, tuberculosis, study, reported, patients, challenges, data, cough, diagnostic


research team also monitored the field activities. 2.6. Data analysis The audio-recorded interviews were transcribed verbatim. Data was analysed concurrently with data collection. A list of a priori codes was made from the guidelines which made up the codebook. Four researchers read the transcripts repeatedly to familiarise themselves with the data and then applied the apriori codes. They discussed the emerging codes and added or modified the existing Table 1 Profile of the caregivers of childhood TB patients. Relation with the patient Age Level of education Occupation (in years) Mother 32 Formal primary schooling (up to class 5) Domestic help Mother 45 Formal secondary schooling (up to class 10) Housewife Mother 35 Formal secondary schooling (up to class 10) Tutor Mother 24 Formal secondary schooling (up to class 10) Housewife Mother – – Housewife Mother 38 Formal primary schooling (up to class 5) Housewife Aunt 32 Formal secondary schooling (upto class 10) Housewife Brother 20 Formal secondary schooling (upto class 10) Employee – =Data were unavailable; TB =Tuberculosis. S.A. Shitol et al. H e l i y o n 9(2023)e20569 Table 2 Profile of the childhood TB patients whose caregivers were interviewed. Gender Age Type of TB Treatment Status (in years) Male 12 Smear negative pulmonary TB Completed Male 14 Extra-pulmonary TB Completed Female 13 Extra-pulmonary TB Ongoing Female 12 Extra-pulmonary TB Completed Male 4 Smear positive pulmonary TB Completed Female 14 Smear positive pulmonary TB Completed Female 14 Extra-pulmonary TB Completed Female 14 Smear negative pulmonary TB Completed Table 3 Profile of the key informant interview respondents. Category Type of respondent Number of interviews by respondent’s gender Male Female Worker Medical Technologist, Lab Technologist Field Manager District Manager, Upazila Manager (BRAC) 3 0 Manager Paeditrician Child Specialist at tertiary care Hospital 2 0 Private Practitioner Private Practitioner 1 0 Informal Provider Village Doctor, Pharmacist 4 0 Total interviews =36 codes in the codebook. A data display matrix was created that helped identify themes and patterns. 2.7. Ethical considerations Ethical approval was obtained from the institutional review board of BRAC James P Grant School of Public Health of BRAC University (approval number: IRB-18 July’20–034). Informed written consent was obtained from all the participants after they were briefed about the nature, confidentiality, and how and where the findings would be shared. They were also informed of the voluntary nature of the participation and their right to withdraw at any moment. Interviews
