Heliyon9(2023)e20569
KEYWORDS: childhood, caregivers, children, diagnosis, treatment, symptoms, providers, tuberculosis, study, reported, patients, challenges, data, cough, diagnostic


confidentiality, and how and where the findings would be shared. They were also informed of the voluntary nature of the participation and their right to withdraw at any moment. Interviews were recorded, and notes were taken once the participants consented. 3. RESULTS 3.1. Challenges in the identification of childhood TB cases 3.1.1. Lack of knowledge among the caregivers A lack of knowledge about childhood TB symptoms was found to hamper the timely identification of childhood TB. Caregivers did not know that clinical manifestation and expression of TB are different in children than in adults and that the former mostly have symptoms related to extrapulmonary tuberculosis (EPTB). Almost all the caregivers associated TB with cough, the absence of which caused them not to suspect TB. One caregiver said, “We only knew that a TB patient coughs. So, I told them [the doctors] that my daughter does not have a cough. Then they [the doctors] said, this is not that kind of TB; that is Pulmonary TB. This is Gland TB. Such patients do not have a cough” (Caregiver IDI3). Often caregivers became confused due to overlapping symptoms with other illnesses. They did not visit a doctor until they found the symptoms to be severe. They waited at home for nearly a month before consulting a doctor. One of the caregivers mentioned, “I thought that the child had cold and fever. I gave her medicine for that for one and half months. It subsided and recurred.” (Caregiver IDI6). However, some caregivers were aware of the symptoms of TB in general and the fact that it is curable. This familiarity influenced their willingness to seek treatment which was a good sign in terms of identification. They knew they would have to undergo screening if the symptoms were persistent (see Table 4 for a summary). S.A. Shitol et al. H e l i y o n 9(2023)e20569 “When you have TB, you have a cough, fever. These are the symptoms. When you have a cough for more than three weeks, you go and test. That is how it can be identified” (Caregiver IDI1) 3.1.2. Caregiver’s preference for alternative treatment There was a strong preference among the caregivers to seek alternative treatment when children exhibited symptoms other than cough, such as a swollen gland on the neck, as in the case of gland TB. Such a decision was mostly due to own instinct, elders’ rec-
