Heliyon9(2023)e20569
KEYWORDS: childhood, caregivers, children, diagnosis, treatment, symptoms, providers, tuberculosis, study, reported, patients, challenges, data, cough, diagnostic


symptoms other than cough, such as a swollen gland on the neck, as in the case of gland TB. Such a decision was mostly due to own instinct, elders’ rec- ommendations and low cost. “I fed the child syrup provided by the homeopathy doctor. But the child was not cured …. As I am her mother, I must try to look for a cure for my child. I took her to the homeopath thinking that she would be cured.” (Caregiver IDI4) “Elders say that swelling can be cured with homeopathy. Even I also take homeopathy. That is why I took my daughter there thinking it would be cheap and the child would be cured. But it (the swelling) did not subside.” (Caregiver IDI3) 3.1.3. Passive case finding process: a missed opportunity The passive screening process seems to have contributed to a low notification. Health workers mentioned that they requested when most children were at school, thus leading to missed opportunities of identifying symptomatic cases (see Table 5 for a summary). “During community mobilisation, when somebody tells us I have a child with this symptom, we tell them to bring their children to our facilities. If the children have those signs and symptoms that I just spoke about, we tell them to screen [for TB] … When [symptoms].” (Field manager, male, KII16) 3.1.4. Community mobilisation focused on cough Even though all TB service delivery implementers were aware that children could not expectorate sputum, community mobilisation cough as a symptom. “Smear-positive are the ones who have the bacteria in their sputum. So, what is the main symptom of the ones who are smear- positive TB? Cough! You need to have a cough [as a symptom]. Therefore, the focus was on the sputum test that helped to detect symptoms like adults. They also have extrapulmonary symptoms … […] … they cannot produce sputum … […] … A large proportion of our diagnosed patients come from sputum sample collection.” (Senior manager, female, KII3) 3.2. Challenges in the diagnosis of childhood TB cases 3.2.1. Long waiting time and service providers’ misconduct at public diagnostic facilities Though diagnostic tests at government and non-governmental organization (NGO) based facilities were free, a few caregivers experienced long waiting times and misbehaviour by staff at diagnostic facilities in the public hospitals. They had to go there as they did not have enough money to go to any other facility. “At
