Heliyon9(2023)e20569
KEYWORDS: childhood, caregivers, children, diagnosis, treatment, symptoms, providers, tuberculosis, study, reported, patients, challenges, data, cough, diagnostic


and misbehaviour by staff at diagnostic facilities in the public hospitals. They had to go there as they did not have enough money to go to any other facility. “At facility “X”, the service providers misbehave. Because we have less money, we have to go there.” (Caregiver IDI1) 3.2.2. Fear of social isolation Several caregivers reported facing social isolation for their children and the whole family when people learned about their (children’s) disease. Table 4 Challenges in the identification and diagnosis of childhood TB cases in Bangladesh based on caregivers’ experience. Theme Sub-theme Summary of findings Challenges in Lack of knowledge among the caregivers •Reported not knowing and recognizing the symptoms of childhood TB identification properly Caregiver’s preference for alternative treatment •Had confusion due to overlapping symptoms with other illnesses Challenges in Long waiting time and service providers’ misconduct •A few reported experiencing long waiting times and misbehaviour by staff at diagnosis at public diagnostic facilities diagnostic facilities in the public hospitals. Fear of social isolation •Reported social isolation for the children with TB and their family •Reported concealing child’s disease status out of the fear of a child being marginalized and gossiped about S.A. Shitol et al. H e l i y o n 9(2023)e20569 Table 5 Challenges in the identification and diagnosis of childhood TB cases in Bangladesh based on healthcare providers’ experience. Theme Sub-theme Summary of findings Challenges in Passive case-finding process: a missed •Reported following passive screening process that might have contributed to low identification opportunity notification Community mobilisation focused on cough •Reported focusing on cough as a symptom during community mobilization. Thus, healthcare providers miss out on children who do not have cough as a symptom Challenges in Diagnosis dilemma among the doctors •Reported treating children suspecting non-TB infection as they do not consider TB diagnosis immediately Unavailability of Mantoux test and GeneXpert: •Reported dependence on diagnostic centres to detect presumptive cases due to Reliance on conventional methods unavailability of Mantoux test and GeneXpert. However, it becomes difficult for the low-income families to go far away and spend money in diagnostic center to detect the disease “People did not let their children play with my son and daughter. They also did not socialise with us.” (Caregiver IDI6) “Yes, when people got to know about TB, they said you should stay alone. Even if it is difficult, nothing can be done.” (Caregiver IDI8) To avoid this
