Heliyon9(2023)e20569
KEYWORDS: childhood, caregivers, children, diagnosis, treatment, symptoms, providers, tuberculosis, study, reported, patients, challenges, data, cough, diagnostic


(Caregiver IDI6) “Yes, when people got to know about TB, they said you should stay alone. Even if it is difficult, nothing can be done.” (Caregiver IDI8) To avoid this problem, some caregivers reported concealing the disease status of their children. One caregiver stated, “No, I did not tell anybody. I kept it a secret as I think my child will face inconvenience due to this problem [disease]. He will not be allowed to mingle with other children. I may face such a situation or there may be gossips …. I will not tolerate if anybody says anything to my child.” (Caregiver IDI2) 3.2.3. Diagnosis dilemma among the doctors Providers and implementers mentioned that a child could show other symptoms when infected with tuberculosis, leading the pecting non-TB infection. These challenges contribute to delays in TB diagnosis and treatment. “A child may lose weight, and a doctor should be suspicious of that, but usually doctors may not pay attention because of patient load, or if TB is not thought of immediately.” (Senior manager, male, KII7) 3.2.4. Unavailability of mantoux test and GeneXpert: reliance on conventional methods GeneXpert and Mantoux test (MT) are not readily available according to the interviews with the providers. Particularly, the MT is considered an essential supportive tool to diagnose childhood TB in the absence of a good sputum sample. According to the providers, due to the unavailability of MT at some facilities, the presumptive cases are referred to other diagnostic centres, which may be far and therefore involve increased out-of-pocket expenditure, which low-income families cannot afford. “Doctors usually prescribe CBC [complete blood count], MT together. We confirm the ESR [erythrocyte sedimentation rate]. MT.” (Facility manager, male, KII18) The implementers were found to be hopeful about the improved situation of diagnosis drawing the example of the training of the paediatricians the completion of a comprehensive training module that were ongoing during the data collection period of the current research. “In December, around 472 GeneXpert machines are going to be installed all over the country. At the moment, we have nearly 313. Because of GeneXpert, even if [TB] bacillary [load] is 50, the diagnosis is still possible. This addition of GeneXpert ma- chines means there will be more diagnoses of childhood TB in the future.” (Senior manager, male, KII6) 4. Discussion The key findings reveal a lack of knowledge among caregivers, fear of social isolation, passive case-finding procedures,
