Heliyon9(2023)e20569
KEYWORDS: childhood, caregivers, children, diagnosis, treatment, symptoms, providers, tuberculosis, study, reported, patients, challenges, data, cough, diagnostic


diagnoses of childhood TB in the future.” (Senior manager, male, KII6) 4. Discussion The key findings reveal a lack of knowledge among caregivers, fear of social isolation, passive case-finding procedures, focus on cough during community mobilisation, diagnosis dilemma among providers and unavailability of appropriate diagnostic facilities contribute to delays in the identification and diagnosis of childhood TB. One of the key findings is that the lack of knowledge of childhood TB among caregivers and initial visits to informal providers contribute to delays in proper healthcare seeking. A systematic review in Sub-Saharan Africa also reported how delayed healthcare- seeking behaviour hinders the timely initiation of TB treatment among children . According to a past study, caregivers’ recognition socioeconomic status . If the caregivers have inadequate knowledge, they are less prompt to recognise and respond to their child’s condition. They would also seek treatment for other illnesses or not visit the right provider. Such practices allow the spread of TB to essential. For most Bangladeshis, informal providers are the first contact point for seeking care. Intensive training with regular brief S.A. Shitol et al. H e l i y o n 9(2023)e20569 refresher orientation with the informal providers will ensure the correct identification and timely referral to the diagnostic facilities. The fact that caregivers were more aware of cough as a TB symptom might be linked to community mobilisation efforts that strongly emphasise cough. This, along with poor awareness of non-cough related symptoms such as bulges, make childhood TB grossly undiagnosed. A survey (n =111) findings of BRAC James P Grant School of Public Health (unpublished) reported that other than a cough, 17% of diagnosed childhood TB patients had a history of loss of appetite, 10% lost their weight, and 4% reported chest pain symptoms related to childhood TB. Fear of social isolation was also found among the caregivers of childhood TB patients upon the diagnosis of the disease. The caregivers were concerned about their children’s acceptance in the community if other people found out about the disease. This finding is consistent with one study in Malaysia, where parents of childhood TB patients expressed the same fear of their children being left out and not having any friends . This social isolation can cause irritability, tension, pessimism, and depression among childhood TB patients , and also among caregivers, as revealed in the current research. This fear can prevent caregivers from seeking diagnosis
