Heliyon9(2023)e20569
KEYWORDS: childhood, caregivers, children, diagnosis, treatment, symptoms, providers, tuberculosis, study, reported, patients, challenges, data, cough, diagnostic


can cause irritability, tension, pessimism, and depression among childhood TB patients , and also among caregivers, as revealed in the current research. This fear can prevent caregivers from seeking diagnosis for their children who may have symptoms of childhood TB. As a result, care must be taken to consider that the intervention to increase awareness does not lead to the stigmatisation of children and people because of TB. treatment for a different disease or refer for further investigations. This finding is similar to a study in Peru that also reported misdiagnosis and caregivers’ visits to multiple places for diagnosis . Such approaches delay the treatment and lead to catastrophic expenditure for unnecessary investigations. Moreover, wrong treatment can put children with TB in danger. Finally, the transmission of TB continues due to delays in treatment. Another significant barrier to the diagnosis of childhood TB is the reliance on conventional methods for diagnosis. As smear- positive TB is the TB program’s primary focus, sputum examination is the most widely used diagnostic method. But children can neither expectorate quality sputum for sputum tests nor clearly show TB features in x-rays. In the current study, doctors interviewed were reportedly hesitant to diagnose smear-negative or those with unclear x-ray findings as TB. If paediatricians and general prac- Therefore, childhood TB diagnosis needs to be strengthened, ensuring appropriate diagnostic facilities are available. Also, future research should explore the reasons behind doctors’ reluctance to consider TB a provisional diagnosis. Despite these challenges, the availability of free diagnostic tests at government and some NGO-managed facilities encourages diagnosis. Many caregivers visited the local diagnostic centres directly to test their children free of cost. It indicates the community is well aware of these services. Notably, the expansion of GeneXpert facilities in Bangladesh is a promising aspect. Such an expansion would efficiently and effectively identify more childhood TB patients within a shorter time. This study had several limitations. Firstly, additional in-depth interviews with the caregivers and healthcare providers of childhood TB patients from different regions of Bangladesh could provide a comprehensive understanding of their challenges. Secondly, including more children with TB below five years would have added diversity in the experiences as this group is at a higher risk of developing a severe form of TB. Thirdly, no analysis of knowledge about DR forms of TB was conducted in the study. Finally, the study might have recall bias in which the
