Heliyon9(2023)e20569
KEYWORDS: childhood, caregivers, children, diagnosis, treatment, symptoms, providers, tuberculosis, study, reported, patients, challenges, data, cough, diagnostic


a severe form of TB. Thirdly, no analysis of knowledge about DR forms of TB was conducted in the study. Finally, the study might have recall bias in which the challenges experienced by the caregivers might be under or over-reported. 5. Conclusion The current study shows that the identification and diagnosis of childhood TB are challenged by various factors including care- givers’ knowledge and experience, the process of case finding and community mobilization, healthcare providers’ way of service provision and diagnosis, and the unavailability of required logistics at facilities. These challenges need to be minimized so that children with TB can have an early identification, diagnosis, treatment initiation, and successful completion of treatment. Awareness should be raised in the community on childhood TB. Future interventions should take these challenges into account and ensure better identi- fication and diagnosis and reduction in tuberculosis burden. Ethics declarations July’20–034. • All participants provided informed consent to participate in the study. • All participants provided informed consent for the publication of their anonymised case details and images. Data availability statementtatement The data that has been used is confidential. CRediT authorship contribution statement Sharmin Akter Shitol: Formal analysis, Writing – original draft. Avijit Saha: Data curation, Formal analysis, Writing – review & S.A. Shitol et al. H e l i y o n 9(2023)e20569 Islam: Conceptualization, Funding acquisition. Malabika Sarker: Conceptualization, Methodology, Writing – review & editing. Declaration of competing interest The authors declare the financial support and administrative support provided by BRAC which may be considered as potential competing interests. Acknowledgements The authors would like to thank the participants for giving their valuable time; the program personnel for helping to reach the participants, the interviewers for conducting the interviews; Bangladesh National Tuberculosis Control Programme implementing partners for their support throughout the study. We are grateful to BRAC for funding the research, and it was a part of the evaluation planned by the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria. The funder was not involved in the study design, data collection, analysis, or paper writing. ABBREVIATIONS TB tuberculosis WHO world health organization MDR multidrug-resistant DR drug-resistant IQR interquartile range DOTS directly observed therapy short course IDIs in-depth interviews KIIs key informant interviews NTP national tuberculosis control programme CHW community health worker NGO non-governmental organization MT mantoux test CBC complete blood count ESR erythrocyte sedimentation rate
