TYPESystematicReview
KEYWORDS: studies, liver, study, nafld, diseases, association, hepatitis, disease, patients, inflammatory, risk, frontiersinimmunology, analysis, extracted, current


attributed to elevated proinflammatory Therefore, in studies evaluating NAFLD-related association, cytokines and adipokines involved in the chronic obesityandcomorbiditiesstatuscouldpotentiallycausegreat inflammatorystatusofHS. confoundingbias.Inthecurrentstudy,thesensitivityanalysis In the pathogenesis of inflammatory skin diseases, considering BMI and metabolic-syndrome-related elevated cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor alpha FrontiersinImmunology 06 frontiersin.org Gauetal. (TNFalpha)orinterleukin1(IL1)couldpotentiallyleadto adipokines, including adiponectin, resistin and leptin were impairment in liver function (5, 24, 25). Immunological reported to be dysregulated (36). In the pathogenies of links between inflammatory skin diseases, for instance, NAFLD, imbalanced adipokines were also thought to play psoriasis, could also be potentially attributed to the role of a potential role (37, 38). Though common mechanisms in low-grade chronic inflammation. In psoriasis patients, immunological pathways existed, actual mechanisms have presence of chronic inflammation could lead to the not been completed developed to determine the HS-liver elevation of TNF alpha, which could in turn increase the diseases relation. Further lab-based studies were needed to riskofinsulinresistanceandhepaticfibrogenesis(30).These clarify the interaction between inflammatory system, consequences could serve as risk factors of NAFLD (30) cytokines,adipokines andliverfunctioninHSpatients. (Figure 4). Additionally, recent real-world evidences also indicated that HS and psoriasis could have bidirectional association (5). Current studies had been finding the actual Limitations inflammatory pathway involved in the pathogenesis of HS. Though the full theory of HS-caused inflammation has not The current study was limited to current available data. been well-developed, it was reported that Th17 family also First,giventhatavailableobservationaldatawasinsufficient playedagreatroleintheHSinflammationpathway(11,31). to perform stratification analysis of age or gender, we were Medications against IL-17 were thought to be potential not able to evaluate whether age and gender could show choice for HS treatments (32, 33). As for the development differenceontheHS-liverdiseasesassociation.Second,since of NAFLD, mechanisms related to Th17 were also highly in most of the included databased-based retrospective involved (10, 34). In viral hepatitis, high level of IL17 was studies, information regarding severity indicators of HS also presented in people with HBV and HCV infection and such Hurley Stage were not available, we were not able to could be associated with severer disease status (9, 35). In consider the severity of HS as common covariate in the previousstudies,dysregulationofserumTh17cellsandIL17 pooledmodel.Third,fortheidentificationofNAFLD,most concentration were observed in patients with hepatitis B. studies did not clarify the difference between non-alcoholic Given that hepatitis B and HS were involved in common steatohepatitis and non-alcoholic fatty liver, for the two immunologicalpathways,thehighprevalencecouldpossibly subgroups of NAFLD referred to different disease severity. be explained. Moreover, in people with HS, status of Third, in most studies,
