TYPESystematicReview
KEYWORDS: studies, liver, study, nafld, diseases, association, hepatitis, disease, patients, inflammatory, risk, frontiersinimmunology, analysis, extracted, current


steatohepatitis and non-alcoholic fatty liver, for the two immunologicalpathways,thehighprevalencecouldpossibly subgroups of NAFLD referred to different disease severity. be explained. Moreover, in people with HS, status of Third, in most studies, alcoholism status was not provided, A B FIGURE3 (A)OddsratioofallpooledevidencesofNAFLDinpeoplewithHidradenitisSuppurativa(B)SensitivityAnalysis:OddsratioofNAFLDinpeople withHidradenitisSuppurativabasedonresultscontrollingobesityrelatedfactorsLegends:GivenobesitywashighlyinvolvedinbothHSand NAFLD,obesity-relatedfactorswerecriticalofconsideringwhileevaluatingHS-NAFLDassociation.Inthismodel,studiesnotadjustingobesity relatedfactorssuchasBMIormetabolicsyndromecomorbiditieswereexcludedfromthequalitativesynthesis. FrontiersinImmunology 07 frontiersin.org Gauetal. FIGURE4 PotentialmechanismsbetweenHSandliverdiseases. which could lead to potential confounding bias. Lacking Data availability statement information regarding alcohol uptake could be a potential limitationinbothstudiesevaluatingHS-NAFLDassociation The original contributions presented in the study and comprehensive analyses based on these real-world are included in the article/Supplementary Material. Further studies. Fourth, the current study is limited due to the inquiriescanbedirectedtothecorrespondingauthor. small amount of eligible evidences, and the extracted studies were less than 10 studies. However, it is not recommended to present publication bias via funnel plot Author contributions when studies were less than 10 due to low evidence power (22).Readers should be cautious while interpreting the All the authors involved in drafting or revising the article reportedresults ofthe currentstudy. and approved of the submitted version. Study conception and design: S-YG, Y-PH, KM and M-CW. Data analysis and demonstration: S-YG and M-CW. Original draft preparation: Conclusion S-YG and M-CW. All authors contributed to the article and approvedthesubmittedversion. Asaconclusion,wereportasignificantlyincreasedriskof liverdiseasesinHSpatients,especiallytheriskofNAFLDand Funding hepatitis B. Clinicians should be alert to the clinical relationship while caring people with HS. Future studies should focus on whether the difference between HS ThisworkwassupportedbyagrantfromTaichungVeterans severity and duration would affect the extent of the General Hospital Research Foundation (TCVGH-1106501B; observedassociation. TCVGH-1116502C). FrontiersinImmunology 08 frontiersin.org Gauetal. Conflict of interest organizations, or those of the publisher, the editors and the reviewers.Anyproductthatmaybeevaluatedinthisarticle,or claimthatmaybemadebyitsmanufacturer,isnotguaranteed Theauthorsdeclarethattheresearchwasconductedinthe absenceofanycommercialorfinancialrelationshipsthatcould orendorsedbythepublisher. beconstruedasapotentialconflictofinterest. Supplementary material Publisher’s note The Supplementary Material for this article can be found All claims expressed in this article are solely those of the online at: authorsanddonotnecessarilyrepresentthoseoftheiraffiliated fimmu.2022.959691/full#supplementary-material
