SHORT COMMUNICATION
KEYWORDS: culture, rudiments, pairs, day, medium, figure, explants, supporting, embryonic, r-spondin, growth, information, organ, ends, peripherin


into visceral muscle. After 3 WNT/β-catenin signalling and stimulates intestinal epi- days in culture, rudiments grown in basal medium had thelial proliferation in postnatal mice . elongated and the histology showed intact tissue with The explants were observed daily using an inverted mi- the formation of rudimentary villi (see supporting infor- croscope (Leica) until day 3, the limit of the study. For mation,FigureS1).Theleveloftissueorganizationofem- some experiments, a sterile polyamide (Nylon) 10/0 su- bryonicday14explantsculturedfor3dayswassimilarto ture (Ethicon) was threaded through the lumens of two that observed in the freshly-dissected embryonic day 17 adjacent rudiments. To determine whether these lumens jejunum (see supporting information, Figure S1). In all became continuous during culture, fluorescent fixable three conditions (i.e. freshly dissected embryonic day 14 dextrans,2g/linphosphate-bufferedsaline(PBS;Molec- and 17 intestines, and the former cultured for 3 days), ularProbes),wereinjectedintooppositeendsofadjacent the epithelia immunostained for E-cadherin (see explants, using a MPPI-2 Pressure Injector/BP15 Back supporting information, Figure S1). Preliminary experi- PressureUnit(AppliedScientificInstrumentation).Green ments(datanotshown)demonstratedthatextendedcul- fluorescentAlexaFluor488dextran(10kDa)wasinjected ture periods, for up to 1 week, were incompatible with intooneendandTexasred(70kDa)intotheother.Inad- tissue viability, probably because the organs had become dition,2mmsegmentsofembryonicday17jejunumwere toolargetobeoptimallysustainedbytheculturesystem. placedintoorganculture(basalmediumonly)and,after Therefore, all further experiments used explants grown 1h, they were observed to determine whether they for3days. underwentperistalsis. We sought to determine whether two explants, com- For whole-mount immunofluorescence, rudiments prisingadjacentsegmentsinvivo,placedneareachother were washed in 1% bovine serum albumin (BSA) in 1% in the same proximal–distal orientation as found in vivo, PBS and 0.1% Triton X-100 for 2 h, then blocked with might fuse in culture. However, preliminary experiments 1% BSA in 1% PBS, 0.1% Triton X-100 and 5% heat- (data not shown) demonstrated that the rudiments treatedgoatserumforoneh.Afterrinsing,theywerein- curved as they grew, with the presumed mesenteric side cubatedfor72hwith1:500dilutionsofprimaryantibod- in the concavity, so that the proximate ends of adjacent ies to E-cadherin (76055, Abcam), an epithelial cell–cell explantsbecamepoorlyaligned.Therefore,inanattempt adhesion protein , and peripherin to maintain orientation, upon being explanted the rudi- (1530, Millipore), an enteric neuron cytoskeletal protein ment pairs were linked with a single suture threaded (Gannsetal.,2006).Afterrinsing,thespecimenswerein- through their lumens (Figure 1A). Using this strategy, as cubatedovernightwithcorrespondingsecondaryantibod- assessedbyobservationsthroughaninvertedmicroscope, ies. For histology, the guts were cryosectioned at 10 μm theexplantsgrewaslineartubes.Onday3ofculture,25 andthesectionswerefixedinacetonefor5min,washed (74%)of34suchrudimentpairswerenotedtobetouch- with ice-cold 1% PBS and permeabilized in 1% PBS and ing,withwell-alignedcentralepithelialzones(Figure1B). 0.1% Triton X-100 for 10 min. After blocking in 1% fish In80%ofsuchwell-alignedpairs(i.e.equivalentto59% gelatinin1%PBSand0.1%TritonX-100for1h,thesec- of the total explanted pairs), a single patent lumen was tions were incubated for 30 minwithgoat anti-α-smooth confirmed by visualizing the trajectories of injected fluo- muscle actin (αSMA; Sigma, SAB2500963), a visceral rescent
