SHORT COMMUNICATION
KEYWORDS: culture, rudiments, pairs, day, medium, figure, explants, supporting, embryonic, r-spondin, growth, information, organ, ends, peripherin


medium alone atresia and necrotizing enterocolitis . (see supporting information, Figure S4, upper frames). Surgery to elongate remnant bowel can be undertaken Although R-spondin 1 altered the shapes of the ends in such patients (Bianchi, 2006), and these treatments of the explants, their lengths at day 3 of culture was canbeinformedbytestingpioneeringsurgicaltechniques from explants fed basal medium alone (see supporting tissue-engineer guts ex vivo is beginning to provide a information, Figure S4, lower frame). In experiments sourceofguttissues thatcanbeusedtocomplementthe when rudiments were grown as pairs in the presence refashioning of aberrant gut by surgery (Sala et al., of R-spondin, 14 (67%) of 21 of these pairs were seen 2009; Saxena et al., 2010). One aspect that has hitherto to be well aligned and touch after 3 days of culture; this beenlittleexploredishowtoelicitoptimalfunctionalfu- result was not significantly different from that measured sionof theadjacentendsofresectedguts. in basal medium alone (p = 0.76, Fisher’s exact test, Thecurrentresultsconfirmreports(Abudetal.,2005; two-tailed). The average starting distance between adja- Quinlan et al., 2006) that embryonic murine intestine cent rudiment pairs in basal medium alone vs pairs in can be maintained in organ culture, an environment per- medium supplemented with R-spondin 1 was not signif- mitting growth and differentiation. Abud et al. (2005) icantly different (p = 0.34; unpaired Student’s t-test; usedthissystemtoimplementsignallingthroughtheepi- data not shown). dermal growth factor in stimulation of epithelial growth Webelievethatinsightsfromexperimentstostudythe and survival. Quinlan et al. (2006) showed that reporter healingandgrowthofintestinesinorganculturewillulti- genescouldbevirallytransducedintoculturedembryonic mately inform the design of novel therapies for human intestinal explants. In our experiments, we explored disease.Anexampleofthelatterisshortbowelsyndrome, whether pairedbowelrudimentscouldfuseinorgancul- a potentially fatal condition arising from a variety of de- ture to form a single functional unit, as assessed by the velopmental and acquired insults, such as congenital formation of a single patent lumen and spontaneous ©2015TheAuthorsJournalofTissueEngineeringandRegenerativeMedicinePublishedbyJohnWiley&Sons,Ltd JTissueEngRegenMed2016;10:178–182. DOI: 182 R.Colettaetal. peristaltic waves that spanned the point of fusion of the that fusion efficacy could be increased when the added two rudiments. The key to successful fusion was to span factor confers both an increase in length of the explant thegapbetweenadjacentrudimentswithathread,which together withpreservationof theshapeof thegut. likely provided a bridge along which the nearby ends of adjacent organs could grow and ultimately fuse. In addi- tion, this thread traversed the lengths of adjacent rudi- Conflict of interest ment pairs, keeping them optimally aligned. Not every rudiment pair was observed to functionally fuse and we Theauthorsdeclarenoconflictsofinterest. hypothesized that the addition of R-spondin 1, an established intestinal growth factor , might increase
