Noninfective Endocarditis
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, noninfective endocarditis, noninfective, vegetations, infective endocarditis, infective, diagnosis, cardiac, valvular, valves, cultures, blood cultures, blood, sterile, echocardiography


Noninfective endocarditis refers to formation of sterile platelet and fibrin thrombi on cardiac valves and adjacent endocardium in response to trauma, circulating immune complexes, vasculitis, or a hypercoagulable state. Symptoms are those of systemic arterial embolism. Diagnosis is by echocardiography and negative blood cultures. Treatment consists of anticoagulants. Endocarditis usually refers to infection of the endocardium (ie, infective endocarditis). The term can also include noninfective endocarditis, in which sterile platelet and fibrin thrombi form on cardiac valves and adjacent endocardium. Noninfective endocarditis sometimes leads to infective endocarditis. Both can result in embolization and impaired cardiac function. Noninfective endocarditis is rare and the diagnosis usually made at autopsy (1). Clinical diagnosis is based on a constellation of clinical findings rather than a single definitive test result. Etiology of Noninfective Endocarditis Vegetations are not caused by infection. They may be clinically undetectable or become a nidus for infection (leading to infective endocarditis), produce emboli, or cause valvular dysfunction. Valve destruction is uncommon. Catheters passed through the right side of the heart may injure the tricuspid and pulmonic valves, resulting in platelet and fibrin attachment at the site of injury. In disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), circulating immune complexes may result in friable platelet and fibrin vegetations along a valve leaflet closure (Libman-Sacks lesions). These lesions do not usually cause significant valvular obstruction or regurgitation. Antiphospholipid syndrome (lupus anticoagulants, recurrent venous thrombosis, stroke, spontaneous abortions, livedo reticularis) also can lead to sterile endocardial vegetations and systemic emboli. Rarely, granulomatosis with polyangiitis, HIV infection, or COVID-19 leads to noninfective endocarditis. Marantic endocarditis In patients with chronic wasting diseases, disseminated intravascular coagulation, mucin-producing metastatic carcinomas (eg, of lung, stomach, or pancreas), or chronic infections (eg, tuberculosis, pneumonia, osteomyelitis), large thrombotic vegetations may form on valves and produce significant emboli to the brain, kidneys, spleen, mesentery, extremities, and coronary arteries. These vegetations tend to form on congenitally abnormal cardiac valves or those damaged by rheumatic fever. Half of patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation have noninfective endocarditis, suggesting a relationship between the conditions. Symptoms and Signs of Noninfective Endocarditis Vegetations themselves rarely cause symptoms unless their size and location cause valvular dysfunction, sometimes leading to dyspnea and/or palpitations. Symptoms result from embolization and depend on the organ affected (eg, brain, kidneys, spleen, digits). Fever and a heart murmur are sometimes present. Diagnosis of Noninfective Endocarditis Blood cultures Echocardiography Noninfective endocarditis should be suspected when patients
