Noninfective Endocarditis
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, noninfective endocarditis, noninfective, vegetations, infective endocarditis, infective, diagnosis, cardiac, valvular, valves, cultures, blood cultures, blood, sterile, echocardiography


the organ affected (eg, brain, kidneys, spleen, digits). Fever and a heart murmur are sometimes present. Diagnosis of Noninfective Endocarditis Blood cultures Echocardiography Noninfective endocarditis should be suspected when patients who are chronically ill develop symptoms suggesting arterial embolism. Serial blood cultures and echocardiography should be done. Negative blood cultures and the presence of valvular vegetations (but not atrial myxoma) suggest the diagnosis. Examination of embolic fragments after embolectomy can help make the diagnosis. Differentiation from culture-negative infective endocarditis may be difficult but is important. Anticoagulation is often needed in noninfective endocarditis but is avoided in infective endocarditis unless there is a pre-existing requirement such as a mechanical valve. Assays for hypercoagulability, antinuclear antibodies, and antiphospholipid syndrome should be done to evaluate for causes of true noninfective endocarditis. Brain imaging is done to help guide treatment. Treatment of Noninfective Endocarditis Anticoagulation Management of the underlying condition Rarely surgery Unless brain imaging finds a lesion prone to hemorrhagic transformation, treatment consists of indefinite anticoagulation with heparin (either intravenous unfractionated or subcutaneous low molecular weight) (1). Direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) and warfarin are not regarded as effective, although no comparative trials have been undertaken in this rare condition (2). Predisposing disorders should be treated whenever possible. Cardiac surgery (eg. vegetation excision, valve replacement) may be considered in cases where there is significant valvular dysfunction causing hemodynamic instability or recurrent embolic events despite optimal medical therapy. Prognosis for Noninfective Endocarditis Prognosis is generally poor, more because of the seriousness of predisposing disorders than the cardiac lesion. Key Points Noninfective endocarditis is much less common than infective endocarditis. Sterile vegetations form on heart valves in response to factors such as trauma, circulating immune complexes, vasculitis, or a hypercoagulable state. The sterile vegetations can embolize or become infected but rarely impair valvular or cardiac function. Evaluation is with echocardiography and exclusion of infective endocarditis using blood cultures. Prognosis depends mainly on the underlying disorder, which is often a serious illness. Treatment is usually with anticoagulation.
