Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


Overview This guideline covers diagnosing and managing abdominal aortic aneurysms. It aims to improve care by helping people who are at risk to get tested, specifying how often to monitor asymptomatic aneurysms, and identifying when aneurysm repair is needed and which procedure will work best. The recommendations in this guideline were developed before the COVID-19 pandemic. Who is it for? • Healthcare professionals • Commissioners and providers • People with an abdominal aortic aneurysm, and their families and carers Recommendations People have the right to be involved in discussions and make informed decisions about their care, as described in NICE's information on making decisions about your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of our recommendations, and has information about prescribing medicines (including off-label use), professional guidelines, standards and laws (including on consent and mental capacity), and safeguarding. 1.1 Diagnosis Identifying people at risk of abdominal aortic aneurysms 1.1.1 Inform all men aged 66 or over who have not already been screened about the NHS abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) screening programme, and advise them that they can self-refer. 1.1.2 Encourage men aged 66 or over to self-refer to the NHS AAA screening programme if they have not already been screened and they have any of the following risk factors: • chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) • coronary, cerebrovascular or peripheral arterial disease • family history of AAA • hyperlipidaemia • hypertension • they smoke or used to smoke. 1.1.3 Consider an aortic ultrasound for women aged 70 and over if AAA has not already been excluded on abdominal imaging and they have any of the following risk factors: • COPD • coronary, cerebrovascular or peripheral arterial disease • family history of AAA • hyperlipidaemia • hypertension • they smoke or used to smoke. 1.1.4 Be aware that people of European family origin are at a higher risk of an AAA. Identifying asymptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysms 1.1.5 Offer an aortic ultrasound to people in whom a diagnosis of asymptomatic AAA is being considered if they are not already in the NHS screening programme. • Refer people with an AAA that is 5.5 cm or larger to a regional vascular service, to be seen within 2 weeks of diagnosis. • Refer people with an AAA that is 3.0 cm to 5.4 cm to a regional vascular service, to be seen within 12
