Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


be seen within 2 weeks of diagnosis. • Refer people with an AAA that is 3.0 cm to 5.4 cm to a regional vascular service, to be seen within 12 weeks of diagnosis. 1.1.6 Offer an aortic ultrasound to people with a suspected AAA on abdominal palpation. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on identifying asymptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysms. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: risk factors for predicting presence of an abdominal aortic aneurysm and evidence review B: imaging techniques to diagnose abdominal aortic aneurysms. Identifying symptomatic or ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms 1.1.7 Think about the possibility of ruptured AAA in people with new abdominal and/or back pain, cardiovascular collapse, or loss of consciousness. Be aware that ruptured AAA is more likely if they also have any of the following risk factors: • an existing diagnosis of AAA • age over 60 • they smoke or used to smoke • history of hypertension. 1.1.8 Be aware that AAAs are more likely to rupture in women than men. 1.1.9 Offer an immediate bedside aortic ultrasound to people in whom a diagnosis of symptomatic and/or ruptured AAA is being considered. Discuss immediately with a regional vascular service if: • the ultrasound shows an AAA or • the ultrasound is not immediately available or it is non-diagnostic, and an AAA is still suspected. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on identifying symptomatic or ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: imaging techniques to diagnose abdominal aortic aneurysms and evidence review N: signs, symptoms and risk factors predicting ruptured or symptomatic unruptured aneurysms before arrival at the hospital, and in non-specialist hospital settings. Imaging technique 1.1.10 When measuring aortic size with ultrasound, report the inner-to-inner maximum anterior-posterior aortic diameter, in accordance with the NHS AAA screening programme. Clearly document any additional measurements taken. 1.1.11 Offer thin-slice contrast-enhanced arterial-phase CT angiography to people who are being evaluated for elective AAA repair. 1.1.12 Consider thin-slice contrast-enhanced arterial-phase CT angiography for people with a suspected ruptured AAA who are being evaluated for AAA repair. For a short explanation of why the committee made
