Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


1.1.12 Consider thin-slice contrast-enhanced arterial-phase CT angiography for people with a suspected ruptured AAA who are being evaluated for AAA repair. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on imaging technique. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: imaging techniques to diagnose abdominal aortic aneurysms. Providing information to people with a diagnosed AAA 1.1.13 Give people with AAA of any size information explaining: • what an AAA is • that most AAAs do not cause any problems • that AAAs can rupture, and what this means • that AAAs are likely to get larger over time, and that larger AAAs are more likely to rupture • that AAA may run in families, so they should tell close relatives that they may have an increased risk of AAA and may need assessment (see recommendations 1.1.2 and 1.1.3) • what options for aneurysm repair are available, when repair should be considered and the potential benefits and risks (see recommendations 1.5.1 and 1.5.2), and when it might be better to not have repair (see recommendation 1.1.14) • their risk of cardiovascular disease and how this risk can be reduced (see recommendation 1.4.6, and see the section on identifying and assessing cardiovascular disease risk in the NICE guideline on cardiovascular disease). 1.1.14 If AAA repair is not currently suitable for a person, explain why, based on their individual circumstances. For example: • Small AAAs only have a very low chance of rupture and there are risks to aneurysm repair, so in this case people do not benefit from repair. • AAA growth is unpredictable, so until their AAA meets the criteria in recommendation 1.5.1 it is not possible to know whether repair will be suitable for a particular person. • On average, people with poor overall health do not benefit from AAA repair. There is no reliable way to assess whether a particular person will benefit or be harmed, so repair for people with poor overall health is an unnecessary risk even if their AAA meets the criteria in recommendation 1.5.1. 1.1.15 Check that people understand their options, and give them time for reflection and discussion. Encourage them to discuss the options with their family and friends. 1.1.16 For more guidance on providing information, see the section on enabling patients to
