Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


time for reflection and discussion. Encourage them to discuss the options with their family and friends. 1.1.16 For more guidance on providing information, see the section on enabling patients to actively participate in their care in the NICE guideline on patient experience in adult NHS services. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on providing information to people with a diagnosed AAA. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review K: effectiveness of endovascular aneurysm repair, open surgical repair and non-surgical management of unruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms. 1.2 Monitoring and reducing the risk of rupture Reducing the risk of rupture 1.2.1 Offer a referral to a stop smoking service to people with an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) who smoke. For more guidance, see the NICE guideline on tobacco: preventing uptake, promoting quitting and treating dependence. 1.2.2 Ensure that people with an AAA who have hypertension receive care in line with the NICE guideline on hypertension in adults. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on reducing the risk of rupture. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C: risk factors associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm growth or rupture. Monitoring the risk of rupture 1.2.3 Offer surveillance with aortic ultrasound to people with an asymptomatic AAA. Use the same surveillance frequency as the NHS AAA screening programme. 1.2.4 See recommendation 1.1.5 on when to refer people to a regional vascular unit. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on monitoring the risk of rupture. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review D: monitoring for abdominal aortic aneurysm expansion and risk of rupture. 1.3 Emergency transfer to regional vascular services 1.3.1 Be aware that there is no evidence that any single symptom, sign or prognostic risk assessment tool can be used to determine whether people with a suspected or confirmed ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) should be transferred to a regional vascular service. 1.3.2 When making transfer decisions, be aware that people with a confirmed ruptured AAA who have a cardiac arrest and/or have a persistent loss
