Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


transferred to a regional vascular service. 1.3.2 When making transfer decisions, be aware that people with a confirmed ruptured AAA who have a cardiac arrest and/or have a persistent loss of consciousness have a negligible chance of surviving AAA repair. 1.3.3 For guidance on care of people with a ruptured AAA for whom repair is considered inappropriate, see the NICE guideline on care of dying adults in the last days of life. 1.3.4 When people with a suspected ruptured or symptomatic unruptured AAA have been accepted by a regional vascular service for emergency assessment, ensure that they leave the referring unit within 30 minutes of the decision to transfer. 1.3.5 Emergency departments, ambulance services and regional vascular services should collaborate to: • provide a protocol for the safe and rapid transfer of people with a suspected ruptured or symptomatic unruptured AAA who need emergency assessment at a regional vascular service • train clinical staff involved in the care of people with a suspected ruptured or symptomatic unruptured AAA in the transfer protocol • review the transfer protocol at least every 3 years. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on emergency transfer to regional vascular services. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review O: signs, symptoms and risk factors indicating suitability for transfer to a regional vascular service and evidence review P: time period for transfer to regional vascular services. Supporting people during transfer 1.3.6 Consider a restrictive approach to volume resuscitation (permissive hypotension) for people with a suspected ruptured or symptomatic AAA during emergency transfer to a regional vascular service. For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on supporting people during transfer. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review Q: permissive hypotension during transfer of people with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm to regional vascular services. 1.4 Predicting and improving surgical outcomes Predicting surgical outcomes for unruptured aneurysms 1.4.1 Consider cardiopulmonary exercise testing when assessing people for elective repair of an asymptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA), if it will assist in shared decision making. 1.4.2 For guidance on other preoperative tests, see the NICE guideline on routine preoperative tests for elective surgery. 1.4.3 Do not use
