Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


if it will assist in shared decision making. 1.4.2 For guidance on other preoperative tests, see the NICE guideline on routine preoperative tests for elective surgery. 1.4.3 Do not use the following risk assessment tools to determine whether or not repair is suitable for a person with an asymptomatic unruptured AAA: • British Aneurysm Repair score • Carlisle Calculator • Comorbidity Severity Score • Glasgow Aneurysm Scale • Medicare risk prediction tool • Modified Leiden score • Physiological and Operative Severity Score for enUmeration of Mortality (POSSUM) • Vascular-POSSUM • Vascular Biochemical and Haematological Outcome Model (VBHOM) • Vascular Governance North West (VGNW) risk model. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on predicting surgical outcomes in unruptured aneurysms. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review G: tests for predicting outcomes after repair of unruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms and evidence review H: risk assessment tools for predicting surgical outcomes of patients who undergo elective abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. Predicting surgical outcomes for ruptured aneurysms 1.4.4 Do not use any single symptom, sign or patient-related risk factor to determine whether aneurysm repair is suitable for a person with a ruptured AAA. 1.4.5 Do not use patient risk assessment tools (scoring systems) to determine whether aneurysm repair is suitable for a person with a ruptured AAA. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on predicting surgical outcomes for ruptured aneurysms. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review S: risk factors for predicting survival after abdominal aortic aneurysm rupture. Improving surgical outcomes 1.4.6 Offer people with an AAA information, support and interventions for secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease. For more information refer to the NICE guidance on: • tobacco: preventing uptake, promoting quitting and treating dependence • diet, nutrition and obesity and exercise • medicines optimisation • lipid modification and statin therapy • diabetes management • hypertension diagnosis and management. 1.4.7 Do not routinely offer preoperative beta blockers to people having AAA repair. 1.4.8 Do not offer remote ischaemic preconditioning to people having AAA repair. 1.4.9 For guidance on preventing and treating surgical site infections and on preventing venous thromboembolism, see the NICE guidelines on surgical site infections and
