Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


endovascular aneurysm repair compared with open surgical repair of unruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms. Anaesthesia and analgesia 1.5.8 Consider epidural analgesia in addition to general anaesthesia for people having open surgical repair of an unruptured AAA. For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on anaesthesia and analgesia during unruptured aneurysm repair. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review L: anaesthesia and analgesia for people having surgical repair of an abdominal aortic aneurysm. 1.6 Repairing ruptured aneurysms 1.6.1 Consider endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) or open surgical repair for people with a ruptured infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). Be aware that: • EVAR provides more benefit than open surgical repair for most people, especially men over 70 and women of any age • open surgical repair is likely to provide a better balance of benefits and harms in men under 70. 1.6.2 Consider open surgical repair for people with a ruptured AAA if standard EVAR is unsuitable. 1.6.3 Do not offer complex EVAR to people with a ruptured AAA if open surgical repair is suitable, except as part of a randomised controlled trial comparing complex EVAR with open surgical repair. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on repairing ruptured aneurysms. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review T: effectiveness of endovascular aneurysm repair compared with open surgical repair of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms. Anaesthesia and analgesia 1.6.4 Consider using local infiltrative anaesthesia alone for people having EVAR of a ruptured AAA. For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on anaesthesia and analgesia during ruptured aneurysm repair. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review L: anaesthesia and analgesia for people having surgical repair of an abdominal aortic aneurysm. Abdominal compartment syndrome 1.6.5 Be aware that people can develop abdominal compartment syndrome after EVAR or open surgical repair of a ruptured AAA. 1.6.6 Assess people for abdominal compartment syndrome if their condition does not improve after EVAR or open surgical repair of a ruptured AAA. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how
