Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


syndrome if their condition does not improve after EVAR or open surgical repair of a ruptured AAA. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on abdominal compartment syndrome. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review U: preventing abdominal compartment syndrome following repair of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm. 1.7 Monitoring for complications after endovascular aneurysm repair 1.7.1 Enrol people who have had endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) into a surveillance imaging programme. 1.7.2 Base the frequency of surveillance imaging on the person's risk of EVAR-related complications. 1.7.3 Consider contrast-enhanced CT angiography or colour duplex ultrasound for assessing abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) diameter and EVAR device limb kinking. 1.7.4 Use contrast-enhanced CT angiography if an endoleak is suspected. If contrast- enhanced CT angiography is contraindicated, use contrast-enhanced ultrasound. 1.7.5 Do not exclude endoleaks based on a negative colour duplex ultrasound alone in people who have had EVAR. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on monitoring for complications after endovascular aneurysm repair. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review V: postoperative surveillance after surgical repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms and evidence review W: accuracy of imaging techniques in identifying complications after surgery. 1.8 Managing endoleaks after endovascular aneurysm repair 1.8.1 Consider open, endovascular or percutaneous intervention for type 1 and type 3 endoleaks following endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR). 1.8.2 Consider intervention for type 2 endoleaks in people who have abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) expansion following EVAR. 1.8.3 Consider further investigation of type 5 endoleaks following EVAR. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on managing endoleaks after endovascular aneurysm repair. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review X: managing complications after abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. Terms used in this guideline This section defines terms that have been used in a specific way for this guideline. For general definitions, please see the NICE glossary. Standard and complex EVAR Standard EVAR is defined as any EVAR procedure: • using a standard infrarenal device (an unmodified off-the-shelf stent graft) and • following the manufacturer's 'instructions for use' for the device
