Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


Standard EVAR is defined as any EVAR procedure: • using a standard infrarenal device (an unmodified off-the-shelf stent graft) and • following the manufacturer's 'instructions for use' for the device used and • without any adjunctive procedures (planned use of endo-anchors and planned permanent instrumentation of aortic branch vessels, such as 'chimney' or 'snorkel' procedures). Any EVAR procedure that does not fit into the definition above is classed as 'complex EVAR'. Complex EVAR also covers fenestrated, branched, customised or internal iliac branch devices, and physician-modified stent grafts. Endoleak The persistence of blood flow outside an endovascular stent–graft but within the aneurysm sac in which the graft is placed. There are 5 types of endoleak: • Type 1 – blood flowing into the aneurysm because of an incomplete or ineffective seal at either end of a stent–graft • Type 2 – blood flowing into an AAA from side branches of the aorta • Type 3 – blood flowing into an AAA through defects in the endograft • Type 4 – blood flowing through the stent–graft fabric into an AAA • Type 5 – continued AAA expansion without radiographic evidence of a leak site. Hostile abdomen An abdomen that is difficult to perform open surgery within, because of adverse anatomical features. For AAA repair, these features can include large abdominal wall defects or intra-abdominal adhesions. A hostile abdomen is most common in people who have had multiple previous episodes of intra-abdominal open surgery. Infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm An abdominal aortic aneurysm arising below the arteries that supply the kidneys. Permissive hypotension A method of fluid administration that aims to reduce bleeding by keeping a person's blood pressure within a lower-than-normal range. Recommendations for research The guideline committee has made the following recommendations for research. Key recommendations for research 1 Monitoring frequencies and repair thresholds What are the most effective and cost-effective frequencies for monitoring people with unruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) of different diameters, and what is the optimal AAA threshold size (inner-to-inner maximum anterior-posterior diameter on ultrasound) for repair? Why this is important More frequent monitoring increases the chances of identifying aneurysms that have grown large enough to be considered for repair. However, monitoring requires resources and the absolute risk of AAA rupture is relatively low, so there are opportunity costs to consider. It is important to establish how often aneurysms should be monitored to keep the risk of rupture as
