Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


AAA rupture is relatively low, so there are opportunity costs to consider. It is important to establish how often aneurysms should be monitored to keep the risk of rupture as low as possible while making the best use of NHS resources. The optimal threshold for repair of an AAA is not clear. There is good evidence that in most cases people do not need repair for aneurysms measuring smaller than 5.5 cm (inner-to- inner maximum anterior-posterior aortic diameter) on ultrasound. However, for some people a threshold above 5.5 cm may be more appropriate. 2 Effectiveness of endovascular aneurysm repair and open surgical repair of complex unruptured and ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms What is the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of complex endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) versus open surgical repair in people for whom open surgical repair is suitable for: • elective repair of an unruptured AAA or • emergency repair of a ruptured AAA? Why this is important EVAR is a widely performed non-invasive alternative to open surgical repair. However, it is more expensive. Although standard EVAR has been shown to produce no long-term benefit over open surgical repair in people with an unruptured infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm, it is less clear whether this is the same in people with who would need complex EVAR to repair their AAA. The committee's view was that, because current practice is subject to strong prior beliefs about the relative benefits and harms of EVAR and open surgical repair for complex AAA, randomisation is critical to provide an unbiased estimate of comparative effectiveness. 3 Macrolides for slowing aneurysm growth and reducing the risk of rupture What are the benefits and harms of macrolides (such as azithromycin) for reducing AAA growth rates and the risk of rupture? Why this is important Small AAAs are currently managed by monitoring, until the aneurysm reaches a diameter at which surgical repair is considered. There are currently no non-surgical interventions available to prevent AAAs from growing, and subsequently rupturing. A randomised controlled trial would be useful to determine whether macrolides reduce the rate of AAA growth and the risk of rupture. 4 Metformin for slowing aneurysm growth and reducing the risk of rupture What are the benefits and harms of metformin for reducing AAA growth rates and the risk of rupture? Why this is important Observational study data suggest an association between diabetes and slower AAA growth, and it has
