Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


metformin for reducing AAA growth rates and the risk of rupture? Why this is important Observational study data suggest an association between diabetes and slower AAA growth, and it has been proposed that this may be due to the use of metformin. A randomised controlled trial is needed to determine whether metformin reduces the rate of AAA growth and the risk of rupture. 5 Tranexamic acid for preventing and treating excessive blood loss during EVAR or open surgical repair Does tranexamic acid reduce blood loss and so improve survival in people who are having repair (EVAR or open surgical repair) of a ruptured AAA? Why this is important Tranexamic acid is used to reduce blood loss in major trauma, postpartum bleeding and surgery. By slowing down blood loss from a ruptured AAA, the use of tranexamic acid may improve survival from ruptured AAA. A randomised controlled trial is needed to determine whether tranexamic acid improves survival in people having EVAR or open surgical repair of a ruptured AAA. 6 Prehabilitation (including preoperative exercise programmes) for improving the outcome of aneurysm repair What is the clinical effectiveness and cost effectiveness of prehabilitation, including preoperative exercise programmes, for improving outcomes of people who are having repair of an AAA? Why this is important NHS providers have started devoting resources to prehabilitation programmes, based on a relatively small body of evidence. Research is needed to determine if prehabilitation is effective and the optimal form it should take. Other recommendations for research 7 Direct oral anticoagulants after abdominal aortic aneurysm repair What are the benefits of postoperative use of direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) for improving outcomes after repair of AAA? 8 Permissive hypotension Does permissive hypotension improve survival of patients undergoing repair of ruptured AAA? 9 Surveillance after endovascular aneurysm repair What are the risks, benefits and cost implications of different surveillance protocols in people who have undergone EVAR? Rationale and impact Identifying asymptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysms Why the committee made the recommendations Recommendations 1.1.1 to 1.1.6 The committee were mindful that the NHS abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) screening programme does not cover men under 65 or women of any age. This means some men and all women who are at risk of AAA are not currently screened. The recommendations highlight these groups and specify risk factors significantly associated with AAA that could be used to help with opportunistic screening. There are also men
