Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


are not currently screened. The recommendations highlight these groups and specify risk factors significantly associated with AAA that could be used to help with opportunistic screening. There are also men who have no risk factors for AAA and were not seen by the screening programme when they turned 65. As their risk of AAA is low, the committee only recommended informing them about the NHS AAA screening programme and how it works. Men can then self-refer if they feel screening is right for them. Evidence from cross-sectional studies also found that people of Hispanic, African-American and Asian family origin were individually less likely than people of European family origin to have an AAA, so the committee wished to raise awareness of this. Aortic ultrasound is recommended because it is the standard technique used in clinical practice and in the screening programme. It has high diagnostic accuracy, and is associated with lower costs and fewer side effects than CT. People with an AAA diameter of 5.5 cm or larger (inner-to-inner maximum anterior-posterior aortic diameter on ultrasound) need to be seen by a regional vascular service within 2 weeks because their aneurysm is at higher risk of rupture. The committee recommended that people with aneurysms less than 5.5 cm in diameter are seen within 12 weeks of diagnosis because this is the timeframe set by the NHS AAA screening programme. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations outlining key risk factors will increase the number of people being screened and improve AAA diagnosis. The recommendations should also promote equal access to healthcare, because they provide guidance on when a potential AAA should be investigated in women, who are currently not covered by the NHS AAA screening programme. Using aortic ultrasound to detect AAAs is good practice. The recommendations ensure that the time within which people with newly-identified aneurysms are seen by regional vascular services is proportional to the risk of rupture. These timings match the timeframe the NHS AAA screening programme uses for people they assess. Return to recommendations Identifying symptomatic or ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms Why the committee made the recommendations Recommendations 1.1.7 to 1.1.9 Based on their own experience, the committee highlighted the most important signs and symptoms of ruptured AAAs, because: • non-specialists commonly fail to diagnose them • improved diagnosis should increase the chance of survival • urgent discussion of a suspected ruptured AAA with a regional
