Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


ruptured AAAs, because: • non-specialists commonly fail to diagnose them • improved diagnosis should increase the chance of survival • urgent discussion of a suspected ruptured AAA with a regional vascular service will improve the chances of appropriate treatment and survival. Aortic ultrasound is the standard technique for detecting the presence of AAA in a person with a suspected ruptured aneurysm. A ruptured AAA is a surgical emergency, and bedside ultrasound is the quickest reliable method to confirm the presence of an AAA. An immediate discussion with the regional vascular unit ensures appropriate management is started as soon as possible. The committee recognised that the sensitivity of aortic ultrasound is not 100% and several factors can make it difficult to visualise the aorta. Since AAA rupture is a life-threatening surgical emergency, they agreed that it would be safest to discuss any non-diagnostic ultrasound findings with the regional vascular unit. How the recommendations might affect practice There is variation in awareness of AAA among non-specialists. Implementing the recommendations should reduce this variation and increase the chance of ruptured AAA being diagnosed earlier. Using bedside aortic ultrasound to detect AAAs is common practice. Preventing delays to repair through immediate discussions with a regional vascular unit should improve outcomes for people with ruptured AAAs. Return to recommendations Imaging technique Why the committee made the recommendations Recommendations 1.1.10 to 1.1.12 The committee agreed that it was important to take consistent measurements of aneurysm size throughout the NHS, so that results are comparable. The NHS AAA screening programme specifies inner-to-inner maximum anterior-posterior aortic diameter on ultrasound, and the committee agreed this would be the most appropriate measurement on which to base practice across the whole NHS. The committee recommended thin-slice contrast-enhanced arterial-phase CT angiography for imaging in people being evaluated for elective repair, because it is widely recognised as the gold standard technique for assessing aneurysm anatomy before repair. For suspected ruptured AAAs, CT angiography should also be considered. However, the committee recognised that some people will need immediate transfer for repair without waiting for a CT scan. No evidence was found demonstrating whether or not post-processing techniques affected postoperative outcomes for people having elective or emergency AAA repair. As post-processing techniques are an established part of clinical practice, the committee agreed not to make recommendations in this area. How the recommendations might affect practice Implementing a consistent measurement method to be used across the
