Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


part of clinical practice, the committee agreed not to make recommendations in this area. How the recommendations might affect practice Implementing a consistent measurement method to be used across the NHS (and that matches the method used in the NHS AAA screening programme) will improve the reproducibility of results, improving surveillance for individuals with AAA and the ability to analyse data at the population level. Thin-slice contrast-enhanced arterial-phase CT angiography is widely used for imaging in people being evaluated for AAA repair, so this recommendation is unlikely to make a major difference to current practice. The recommended timings reflect current standards within the NHS AAA screening programme. As post-processing techniques are established in practice, a lack of recommendations on these will not have an impact. Return to recommendations Providing information to people with a diagnosed AAA Why the committee made the recommendations Recommendations 1.1.13 to 1.1.15 The committee agreed some consensus recommendations on what information should be provided to people who have been diagnosed with an AAA. In particular, the recommendations cover information for people who are not being considered for repair, either because their AAA is too small (data from the NHS screening programme show that the risk of rupture for an AAA below 5.5 cm is only 0.4% per year) or because their medical comorbidities mean the risks of repair outweigh the benefits. It is important to avoid making people anxious about not being offered repair, but also to avoid giving the impression that AAA repair is always beneficial if the aneurysm meets the criteria for treatment (see recommendation 1.5.1). Explaining how the decision to repair is made (based on the person's health at that particular time) and the uncertainties around this will help people to better understand the options available. The committee emphasised that clinicians should ensure that people understand their options and the balance of risks they face. They noted that several clinic visits, including opinions from specialists such as anaesthetists, geriatricians, and cardiologists, are likely to be needed. Return to recommendations Reducing the risk of rupture Why the committee made the recommendations Recommendations 1.2.1 and 1.2.2 The committee focused on modifiable risk factors that could influence the management of people with known AAAs. There was some evidence that high blood pressure increases the chance of AAA growth and rupture, and the committee knew from their own experience that people with an AAA do not always
