Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


some evidence that high blood pressure increases the chance of AAA growth and rupture, and the committee knew from their own experience that people with an AAA do not always receive appropriate management for high blood pressure. There is also evidence that smoking increases the risk of AAA rupture. As a result, the committee referred to the NICE guidelines on these topics. The committee agreed that there was not enough high-quality evidence to make clinical recommendations on non-surgical interventions for slowing aneurysm growth and reducing the risk of rupture. In light of this, they made recommendations for research on 2 drug interventions that might reduce aneurysm growth and rupture risk. How the recommendations might affect practice The NICE guidelines on hypertension and stop smoking services cover current practice, so organisations are unlikely to need to change practice. Non-surgical interventions for small AAAs are not usually used outside of clinical trials, so a lack of recommendations will have little impact on practice. Return to recommendations Monitoring the risk of rupture Why the committee made the recommendations Recommendations 1.2.3 and 1.2.4 The committee recommended ultrasound surveillance because ultrasound is current practice and no evidence was found for other imaging techniques. They recommended that monitoring frequency should be in line with the NHS AAA screening programme to ensure consistency across the whole NHS. The screening programme surveillance intervals are based on evidence on risk of rupture, depending on the size of the AAA. This means that people with larger aneurysms are monitored more frequently, offering the best balance between benefits and costs. The committee are aware that the NHS AAA screening programme may change the surveillance intervals it uses in the future. If this happens, the committee agreed that regional vascular services should change to match the new intervals, to ensure that they continue to provide care based on best practice. How the recommendations might affect practice Changing monitoring intervals to reflect those used in the NHS AAA screening programme will maintain a consistent standard across the NHS, and ensure that the most effective imaging intervals are used. Return to recommendations Emergency transfer to regional vascular services Why the committee made the recommendations Recommendations 1.3.1 to 1.3.5 There was no evidence on symptoms, signs or risk assessment tools for deciding whether people with ruptured aneurysms are likely to survive transfer to a regional vascular service. Based on their own experience, the committee highlighted
