Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


signs or risk assessment tools for deciding whether people with ruptured aneurysms are likely to survive transfer to a regional vascular service. Based on their own experience, the committee highlighted specific circumstances (cardiac arrest and persistent loss of consciousness) in which people are unlikely to survive transfer and subsequent aortic repair. This will help reduce the number of people being given ineffective and invasive treatment at the end of life. The committee referred to the NICE guideline on care of dying adults in the last days of life to ensure that appropriate and compassionate care is given to people with a ruptured AAA when the decision has been made not to operate. There was also no evidence on how quickly people with ruptured AAA should be transferred to regional vascular units. In the absence of evidence, the committee adapted recommendations from the NICE guideline on service delivery for major trauma. They agreed, based on their experience of emergency transfer, that the timing specified for people with major trauma was appropriate for people with ruptured AAA and manageable for referring units. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations on assessing people for transfer will raise awareness among emergency staff, but will have little resource impact on clinical practice. The recommendations on transfer speed will improve practice by minimising variation in transfer times across the NHS. The timeframe recommended is the same as for major trauma, and the committee agreed that this is a reasonably similar situation. The NICE guideline on care of dying adults cover current practice, so organisations are unlikely to need to change practice. Return to recommendations Supporting people during transfer Why the committee made the recommendation Recommendation 1.3.6 As there was no evidence specific to the use of permissive hypotension during transfer of people with ruptured or symptomatic AAA, the committee agreed that a consensus recommendation was needed in this important clinical area. As a result the committee adapted recommendations from the NICE guideline on assessment and initial management for major trauma. How the recommendation might affect practice The recommendation will reduce the likelihood of inappropriate fluid administration during transfer of people with ruptured AAA. This, in turn, will improve the outcomes of endovascular aneurysm repair and open surgical repair procedures. The recommendation is in line with NICE recommendations on fluid administration for other major trauma, and the committee agreed that this was appropriate for ruptured AAA.
