Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


open surgical repair procedures. The recommendation is in line with NICE recommendations on fluid administration for other major trauma, and the committee agreed that this was appropriate for ruptured AAA. Return to recommendation Predicting surgical outcomes in unruptured aneurysms Why the committee made the recommendations Recommendations 1.4.1 and 1.4.3 There was limited evidence that cardiopulmonary exercise testing can help predict outcomes following endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) and open surgical repair. While the evidence was limited, the committee agreed that cardiopulmonary exercise testing could have a useful role in shared decision-making between healthcare professionals and patients when the benefits and harms of surgery are uncertain. There are other tests for assessing people before surgery, but there was no evidence available for them. One study found that higher estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was associated with improved outcomes after elective EVAR, but it did not give clear eGFR thresholds that could be used in decision-making. In the absence of evidence, the committee referred to the NICE guideline on routine preoperative tests for elective surgery. Some of the studies reviewed for that guideline focused on people having elective AAA repair. The evidence highlighted that none of the risk assessment tools had a high enough predictive accuracy at predicting postoperative outcomes. The specific tools listed are the ones for which evidence was available. This evidence led the committee to conclude that these tools would not improve decision-making and could potentially lead to inappropriate decisions about patient management. They agreed that this could lead to harm, and therefore advised that risk assessment tools should not be used. How the recommendations might affect practice The use of cardiopulmonary exercise testing will have limited impact on practice as it is only recommended in situations where it will help in shared decision-making. Risk assessment tools are not widely used outside the context of research on AAA. Therefore, the recommendations will have little impact on practice. Return to recommendations Predicting surgical outcomes for ruptured aneurysms Why the committee made the recommendations Recommendations 1.4.4 and 1.4.5 There is evidence that some risk factors and risk assessment tools are associated with poor postoperative outcomes. However, it is not clear how any particular factor or combination of factors could be used to decide if aneurysm repair is suitable for a person with a ruptured AAA. The committee emphasised that there is a potential for harm if clinicians base their decision to repair
