Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


decide if aneurysm repair is suitable for a person with a ruptured AAA. The committee emphasised that there is a potential for harm if clinicians base their decision to repair solely on risk assessment tools and scores, because some people would be inappropriately offered or denied repair. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations will have a beneficial impact, by ensuring decisions about care are not made based on inappropriate factors or tools. This, in turn, should prevent inappropriate decisions being made about whether or not to offer repair. Return to recommendations Improving surgical outcomes Why the committee made the recommendations Recommendations 1.4.6 to 1.4.9 The committee made a recommendation on cardiovascular disease because it is common in people with AAA and it is best practice to reduce the risk of problems in people who have it. The other NICE guidelines that are referenced include recommendations to help reduce this risk. The evidence showed that giving beta blockers just before surgery is not beneficial, and may be harmful by lowering low blood pressure and heart rate. The committee noted that some people with AAA may need to take beta blockers for other conditions (such as atrial fibrillation). As a result, they recommended against routine use before AAA repair, rather than recommending against beta blockers altogether. Remote ischaemic preconditioning was not recommended because there was evidence that it does not improve outcomes and that it can cause problems such as an irregular heartbeat. The committee recommended further research because there was not enough evidence to make recommendations on prehabilitation (including exercise programmes before surgery), or on any interventions after AAA repair. How the recommendations might affect practice Providing support to reduce the risk of problems from cardiovascular disease is already current practice. In addition, beta blockers and routine ischaemic preconditioning are not currently in routine use before AAA repair, so these recommendations should have a minimal impact on practice. Return to recommendations Repairing unruptured aneurysms Why NICE made the recommendations Recommendations 1.5.1 to 1.5.7 When to consider repair A number of factors should be considered before treating asymptomatic aneurysms, one of which is size. It is standard practice to repair large aneurysms (over 5.5 cm in diameter on ultrasound, measured using an anterior-posterior diameter inner-to-inner), and to monitor smaller aneurysms (less than 4 cm in diameter) until they become larger. Repair is sometimes offered for aneurysms below 5.5 cm if
