Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


using an anterior-posterior diameter inner-to-inner), and to monitor smaller aneurysms (less than 4 cm in diameter) until they become larger. Repair is sometimes offered for aneurysms below 5.5 cm if they are growing rapidly, or if they are symptomatic. However, data from the NHS screening programme show that, for aneurysms below 5.5 cm, the risk of rupture remains very low (0.4% per year). It is clear from the evidence that there is no benefit to repairing aneurysms that are below 5.5 cm, asymptomatic and not growing rapidly. Based on this evidence, we highlighted factors that would help healthcare professionals decide when to repair aneurysms. Given the risks and other disadvantages of AAA repair, conservative management is sometimes a better option. Because of this, healthcare professionals need to explain the balance of benefits and risks to people with AAAs, so they can make an informed decision. Open surgical repair, standard endovascular aneurysm repair or conservative management The evidence showed that, compared with open surgical repair for people with an unruptured infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm, elective EVAR has medium- and long- term harms that outweigh its short-term benefits. EVAR is associated with fewer perioperative deaths, and less time in hospital in general (and critical care in particular). But it also has worse long-term survival than open surgical repair, and more long-term complications, leading to further procedures. Even when taking the short-term benefits of EVAR into account, all plausible cost- effectiveness estimates show that EVAR either: • has higher net costs and lower net benefits than open surgical repair or • is substantially above the range NICE normally considers to be a cost-effective use of NHS resources. There is a small group of people who have abdominal copathology or other considerations that mean open surgical repair is unsuitable. Examples of copathologies include people who have internal scar-tissue from previous abdominal surgery (a so-called hostile abdomen), people who have a single, fused kidney that is wrapped around the aorta ('horseshoe kidney'), and people who have a stoma. Although there was no evidence on this population, EVAR is a potential option for these people, as the risks of open surgical repair may be much higher for them. This recommendation should not be used to extend EVAR to people who could reasonably have open surgical repair. Open surgical repair is contraindicated for some people with an unruptured AAA because of anaesthetic risks and/or medical comorbidities. For
