Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


EVAR to people who could reasonably have open surgical repair. Open surgical repair is contraindicated for some people with an unruptured AAA because of anaesthetic risks and/or medical comorbidities. For these people, the risk of their AAA rupturing if no repair is attempted has to be balanced against: • the perioperative risks and long-term complications of EVAR • the uncertainty around whether they will benefit from EVAR • the large costs of EVAR. With all this in mind, it is clear that practice needs to be rebalanced. Conservative management is a better option than EVAR for many people. However, NICE also acknowledged stakeholder comments highlighting the importance of individualised care. For some people, EVAR may be appropriate. Clinicians should discuss the risks of EVAR and conservative management with people with AAAs, taking into account the uncertainty that EVAR will provide a benefit. People who are not offered repair may be anxious about having an AAA but not receiving treatment for it. However, a better explanation of the risks they face, in the context of their other life-limiting comorbidities, can help with anxiety. To help with this, the committee made consensus recommendations (see recommendations 1.1.13 to 1.1.14) on the information to cover when discussing repair with people who have an AAA. Complex endovascular aneurysm repair The evidence for complex EVAR was limited in quantity and quality. However, complex EVAR grafts and procedures are much more expensive than standard EVAR, so the difference in cost between EVAR and open surgical repair is likely to be even greater than for infrarenal AAAs. In addition, using standard EVAR stent grafts for complex AAA usually violates the manufacturer's 'instructions for use'. Although there is currently no evidence that complex EVAR has better outcomes than open surgical repair, people with complex AAAs have higher perioperative mortality rates than people with infrarenal AAAs. Because of this, an increased perioperative survival benefit may be more important for them, and may justify the use of complex EVAR. This would differentiate complex EVAR from standard EVAR, which clearly does not provide enough short-term benefits to outweigh the worse long-term outcomes or the increased cost (when compared with open surgical repair). Open surgical repair is contraindicated for some people with an unruptured AAA because of anaesthetic risks and/or medical comorbidities. For these people, the risk of their AAA rupturing if no repair is attempted has to be balanced against: • the
