Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


unruptured AAA because of anaesthetic risks and/or medical comorbidities. For these people, the risk of their AAA rupturing if no repair is attempted has to be balanced against: • the perioperative risks and long-term complications of complex EVAR • the uncertainty around whether they will benefit from complex EVAR • the large costs of complex EVAR. With all this in mind, it is clear that conservative management is a better option than complex EVAR for many people. However, NICE also acknowledged stakeholder comments highlighting the importance of individualised care. For some people, complex EVAR may be appropriate. Clinicians should discuss the risks of complex EVAR and conservative management with people with AAAs, taking into account the uncertainty that complex EVAR will provide a benefit. As with standard EVAR, NICE acknowledged that in the face of the evidence reviewed, practice needs to be rebalanced towards open surgical repair in this scenario as well. But, because of the limited evidence for complex EVAR and the importance of individualised care, NICE concluded that it is important for clinicians and people with AAA to discuss the uncertainties and weigh up the risks and benefits of repair, in order to make an informed decision. More evidence on this procedure would be helpful, and NICE has made a recommendation for research comparing complex EVAR with open surgical repair. EVAR and complex EVAR for specific subgroups of people For each of the recommendations, NICE considered whether there were any specific groups that would benefit from standard or complex EVAR for unruptured AAAs. We explored groups defined by age, sex, AAA diameter and life expectancy, but it was not possible with the current evidence to identify any specific groups in which the benefits would outweigh the harm and costs. Other evidence sources The key randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in this area are relatively old. NICE looked at more recent observational evidence, to see if changes in surgical and endovascular techniques and technology have led to different outcomes. The observational studies are at high risk of bias, but their findings are broadly in line with the RCTs. They show that, while outcomes from EVAR have improved over the last 15 years, outcomes from open surgical repair have also improved by roughly the same amount. This means the difference in outcomes between the two has remained fairly constant. Registries like the National Vascular Registry can provide a useful snapshot of
