Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


by roughly the same amount. This means the difference in outcomes between the two has remained fairly constant. Registries like the National Vascular Registry can provide a useful snapshot of current practice, and the analyses that informed NICE's decision-making made use of data from them. However, they are not designed to evaluate the comparative benefits and harms of different surgical approaches, such as EVAR and open surgical repair. Therefore, they cannot be considered a reasonable alternative to RCT data. In addition, an analysis using the registry data showed that EVAR still did not provide greater long-term benefits than open surgical repair, and that it still has higher net costs. Implementation challenges NICE acknowledged the need to rebalance practice towards open repair and identified the possible implementation challenges. • Possible increased perioperative mortality with open surgical repair: Improvements in practice since the RCTs were published have led to better standards for open surgical repair and EVAR alike. In addition, the NHS AAA screening programme means that AAAs are more likely to be diagnosed earlier than in the past, so people can have repair when they are younger and healthier. For these reasons, open surgical repair of unruptured AAAs can be provided with a low incidence of morbidity and mortality. • The risk that vascular units will have trouble meeting an increased demand for open surgical repair: All vascular surgeons should be competent to perform open surgical repair of AAAs, and the Intercollegiate Surgical Curriculum Programme's Vascular surgery curriculum puts more emphasis on open surgical repair than on EVAR. This means that future surgeons should be well prepared to provide open surgical repair with a low incidence of morbidity and mortality. • Potential shortage of beds in the NHS: As people who have open surgical repair spend more time in hospital immediately after the procedure, there may be a small, short-term increase in waiting times for AAA repair. However, an analysis comparing waiting times showed that open surgical repair would still provide greater benefit than EVAR for a lower cost even with a substantial increase in waiting times for open surgical repair. • The possibility that reducing the number of EVAR procedures performed for unruptured aneurysms will make it difficult to provide EVAR for ruptured aneurysms: There are a number of ways this implementation issue might be addressed: － vascular services could be centralised further (for example by establishing aortic units) －
