Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


EVAR for ruptured aneurysms: There are a number of ways this implementation issue might be addressed: － vascular services could be centralised further (for example by establishing aortic units) － in line with the recommendations, EVAR can be offered in certain situations. Goal-directed therapy The evidence did not show any benefit from goal-directed therapy for people having repair of an unruptured AAA. Goal-directed therapy covers a broad range of different haemodynamic monitoring and management practices, some of which are routinely performed during major surgery. The committee recognised that it was not possible to specify which practices should or should not be performed and agreed that drafting recommendations would be too prescriptive. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendation on when to repair unruptured aneurysms is unlikely to impact on current clinical practice because it reflects what is already being done within the NHS. Data from the NHS AAA screening programme indicate that the risk of rupture for AAAs that are smaller than 5.5 cm is very low. The recommendations on EVAR could have a large impact on practice and will also affect the timing and type of information about treatment options given to patients. In light of the evidence reviewed, practice needs to be rebalanced towards open surgical repair for infrarenal aneurysms. The recommendations will minimise harm by reducing long-term mortality and the need for re-intervention as a result of the problems with EVAR. The reduction in EVAR, and so EVAR-related re-interventions, will result in significant cost savings for the NHS. A lack of recommendations on goal-directed therapy will not impact on practice. Basic haemodynamic management is routinely performed during most surgical procedures, but goal-directed therapy is not widely adopted during AAA surgery. Return to recommendations Anaesthesia and analgesia during unruptured aneurysm repair Why the committee made the recommendation Recommendation 1.5.8 The committee noted that there was some evidence that adding an epidural to general anaesthesia reduced the need for further analgesia for people having open surgical repair of an unruptured AAA. This was consistent with their own clinical experience of better pain control and reduced postoperative respiratory complications with an epidural. Adding an epidural is fairly widespread in current practice, and the committee agreed that it should be recommended as an option. No evidence was found on anaesthesia and analgesia for people undergoing EVAR for unruptured AAA. The committee agreed that no recommendations were needed in this area
