Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


recommended as an option. No evidence was found on anaesthesia and analgesia for people undergoing EVAR for unruptured AAA. The committee agreed that no recommendations were needed in this area because they had recommended that EVAR should not be used to treat unruptured infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm, except in clinical trials or for people for whom open surgical repair is unsuitable because of abdominal copathology. How the recommendations might affect practice The use of an epidural in addition to general anaesthesia for people having open surgical repair of an unruptured AAA is already fairly widespread in current practice. Therefore the overall impact of the recommendation is likely to be small, although it may reduce existing variation. Return to recommendation Repairing ruptured aneurysms Why the committee made the recommendations Recommendations 1.6.1 to 1.6.3 Which technique to use The evidence showed that, compared with open surgical repair, a strategy that uses EVAR (where anatomically possible) to repair ruptured infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm provides a reasonable balance of benefits and costs. As the average cost-effectiveness results for EVAR were favourable, the committee discussed whether they should recommend EVAR whenever it is possible. They decided not to, for 2 reasons. Firstly, there is uncertainty in the evidence for EVAR from the IMPROVE trial. People who had EVAR for a ruptured AAA in this trial were followed up for at most 7 years. People who had EVAR for an unruptured AAA in the EVAR-1 trial were followed up for 15 years, and the committee noted that these data indicate that EVAR leads to increasingly worse survival when compared with open surgical repair, because follow-up duration increases (see why NICE made the recommendations on repairing unruptured aneurysms). The medium-term survival data from the IMPROVE trial give some indication that a similar long-term pattern may develop in trials of ruptured AAA, with the survival curves converging as follow-up gets longer. Therefore, it is possible that longer-term data would show EVAR to be worse than open surgical repair for people with ruptured AAA as well. Secondly, there was evidence that the balance of benefits and costs for EVAR varies between different groups of people with ruptured AAAs. In particular, most women have better short-term survival after EVAR, whereas the evidence favours open surgical repair for younger men. Therefore, the committee recommended that either EVAR or open surgical repair can be considered, and provided detail on the groups for
