Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


the evidence favours open surgical repair for younger men. Therefore, the committee recommended that either EVAR or open surgical repair can be considered, and provided detail on the groups for which each approach is likely to be best. Complex EVAR is only recommended within the context of an RCT because there is currently no evidence to support it as an option for people with ruptured complex AAA. Open surgical repair of these aneurysms is recommended as the only approach that should be used in people for whom emergency repair is suitable until the safety and effectiveness of complex EVAR has been established in this setting. Tranexamic acid No evidence on the use of tranexamic acid in people with a ruptured AAA was identified. The committee was aware that tranexamic acid is included in some major haemorrhage protocols and some patients, without major trauma, may receive it before undergoing surgery. In the committee's experience, tranexamic acid is not routinely used in people with a ruptured AAA, so it agreed to recommend research on tranexamic acid for preventing and treating excessive blood loss during EVAR or open surgical repair. Goal-directed therapy There was no evidence on goal-directed therapy for people having repair of a ruptured aneurysm. Goal-directed therapy covers a broad range of different haemodynamic monitoring and management practices; some of which are routinely performed during major surgery. The committee recognised that it was not possible to specify which practices should or should not be performed and agreed that drafting recommendations would be too prescriptive. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations will have little impact on current practice, as both standard EVAR and open surgical repair are currently offered to people with ruptured infrarenal AAAs. In relation to complex EVAR, the recommendation not to use it outside of RCTs will limit the use of a technically complex and expensive procedure in people for whom open surgery is a safe and suitable option. Because the guideline recommends that fewer EVAR procedures should be performed for unruptured aneurysms (see the section on repairing unruptured aneurysms), surgical teams may have less opportunity to develop the skills they need to provide EVAR in emergency cases. The committee were mindful of this issue, but were convinced by the evidence showing that, overall, people with AAAs would be worse off if EVAR procedures were performed for unruptured aneurysms just to maintain EVAR expertise. Elective EVAR will
