Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


convinced by the evidence showing that, overall, people with AAAs would be worse off if EVAR procedures were performed for unruptured aneurysms just to maintain EVAR expertise. Elective EVAR will still be available in certain circumstances and centralisation of aortic services may maintain expertise. However, neither training nor service models were in the scope of this guideline, so the committee did not review any evidence and were unable to make any specific recommendations in these areas. A lack of recommendations on goal-directed therapy will not impact on practice. Basic haemodynamic management is routinely performed during most surgical procedures, but goal-directed therapy is not widely adopted during AAA surgery. A lack of recommendations on tranexamic acid will have little impact on practice. Tranexamic acid is used in varying degrees across the NHS, but it is not standard practice for people with ruptured or symptomatic AAAs who are being transferred before surgery. Return to recommendations Anaesthesia and analgesia during ruptured aneurysm repair Why the committee made the recommendation Recommendation 1.6.4 No evidence was identified on the optimal use of anaesthesia and analgesia in people having open surgical repair or EVAR of a ruptured AAA. The committee agreed, based on their knowledge and experience, that general anaesthesia alone is widely accepted as best practice for open surgical repair, so did not make a recommendation on this. The committee made a recommendation on the use of local infiltrative anaesthesia alone in people having EVAR for ruptured AAA because it was considered that increased awareness of this option was needed. How the recommendation might affect practice The committee agreed that the potential impact of this recommendation on practice is unclear, because it is difficult to predict the proportion of people for whom EVAR under local infiltrative anaesthesia might be an option. The main aim of this recommendation is to raise awareness of this option. Return to recommendation Abdominal compartment syndrome Why the committee made the recommendations Recommendations 1.6.5 and 1.6.6 There was no evidence relating to preventing or managing abdominal compartment syndrome in people who are having AAA repair. The committee agreed it was important to raise awareness of this potentially life-threatening condition, and made recommendations to highlight that it can occur after both endovascular aneurysm repair and open surgical repair. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations will ensure that clinicians are aware of abdominal compartment syndrome in people who have undergone repair
