Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


aneurysm repair and open surgical repair. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations will ensure that clinicians are aware of abdominal compartment syndrome in people who have undergone repair of ruptured AAA. This may result in better postoperative assessment and management. Return to recommendations Monitoring for complications after endovascular aneurysm repair Why the committee made the recommendations Recommendations 1.7.1 to 1.7.5 Imaging surveillance is needed after EVAR, because there is a risk that people will develop complications from the procedure or need another operation. These risks are lower after open surgical repair, so surveillance is not standard practice and in this case the committee did not recommend it. The committee noted that the frequency of EVAR surveillance is highly variable in practice. In the absence of evidence on how often imaging should be done, the committee agreed a recommendation to tailor surveillance to the perceived risk of complications. This should focus attention and resources on the people at greatest risk, and help to identify complications earlier. In practice, identifying complications after EVAR usually involves sequential imaging, with ultrasound frequently used as the first-line test and other imaging modalities used to detect specific complications. Imaging modalities may be complimentary, and the clinical significance of some imaging findings remains unclear, which makes identifying a true reference standard difficult. Contrast-enhanced CT angiography was widely used as a gold standard in the evidence that was reviewed. However, this has led to some abnormalities that are detected on other imaging modalities, but not on CT, being defined as false positives (for that modality, rather than as false negatives for CT). This may have introduced bias, and makes it difficult to rely on CT as a reference standard. The evidence showed that colour duplex ultrasound was highly accurate at identifying changes in sac size when compared with contrast-enhanced CT angiography. Increases in sac size are often believed to indicate an endoleak even if no leak can be seen on the ultrasound. There was little evidence on graft kinking, but the committee agreed based on their experience that colour duplex ultrasound and CT angiography were equally as effective at detecting this type of complication. In the evidence reviewed, contrast-enhanced ultrasound was the only imaging technique that had acceptable accuracy for directly identifying endoleaks when compared with contrast-enhanced CT angiography. Importantly, other imaging techniques had unacceptably high rates of false-negative results. For this reason, the committee agreed
