Abdominal aortic aneurysm: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: repair, aaa, people, recommendations, evar, committee, evidence, surgical, aneurysm, open, surgical repair, practice, open surgical, ruptured, risk


had acceptable accuracy for directly identifying endoleaks when compared with contrast-enhanced CT angiography. Importantly, other imaging techniques had unacceptably high rates of false-negative results. For this reason, the committee agreed that in situations where the definitive exclusion (or identification) of endoleak is important (for example where endoleak is suspected) either contrast-enhanced CT angiography or contrast-enhanced ultrasound should be used. Contrast-enhanced ultrasound was not recommended for assessing other complications because the evidence for its use only covered endoleaks. The committee agreed that it is particularly important not to falsely exclude an endoleak, so the sensitivity of a diagnostic test is more important than its specificity. While colour duplex ultrasound is highly accurate at identifying changes in sac size (which may indicate an endoleak), the available evidence shows that it has suboptimal sensitivity for directly detecting type I and III endoleaks. In addition, the accuracy of ultrasound was shown to be dependent on the operator, so its accuracy may be variable in practice. This variability in diagnostic accuracy, and resultant potential for harm if an endoleak is missed, led the committee to recommend that colour duplex ultrasound alone should not be used to confirm or exclude the presence of endoleaks. How the recommendations might affect practice There is variation in which imaging techniques are used for surveillance. Some centres use ultrasound only, and some use contrast-enhanced CT angiography and ultrasound. Colour duplex ultrasound is widely used, but contrast-enhanced ultrasound is not. These recommendations are not likely to alter surveillance regimens substantially because many centres use imaging tests in a complementary fashion, often relying on sac size as a trigger for further investigation if necessary. Sonographers will need training in administering contrast agents if contrast-enhanced ultrasound is to be more widely adopted. Return to recommendations Managing endoleaks after endovascular aneurysm repair Why the committee made the recommendations Recommendations 1.8.1 to 1.8.3 Endoleaks following EVAR are common. They can have a negative impact on patient prognosis and long-term quality of life, and further interventions are frequently needed to repair them. In the absence of evidence, the committee made recommendations based on their experience because: • it is good practice to repair type I and III endoleaks and some type II endoleaks • healthcare professionals are not all aware that type II endoleaks without sac expansion can be managed conservatively • there are circumstances when sac expansion occurs without imaging evidence of a leak site
