Therapeutic hypothermia for acute ischaemic stroke
KEYWORDS: stroke, procedure, cooling, ischaemic, committee, temperature, evidence, used, care, ischaemic stroke, hours, nice, need, patients, safety


of 0.25°C to 0.5°C every hour. Rewarming takes about 8 hours. During cooling, patients need close cardiovascular monitoring in an intensive care environment, and may also need intubation and sedation. Drugs, including neuromuscular blockers, may be used to manage shivering. 2.5 The procedure may be used with thrombolysis (intravenous alteplase), mechanical thrombectomy or other vascular reperfusion techniques. 2.6 The aim of the procedure is to reduce the risk of secondary brain damage. 3 Committee considerations The evidence 3.1 To inform the committee, NICE did a rapid review of the published literature on the efficacy and safety of this procedure. This comprised a comprehensive literature search and detailed review of the evidence from 9 sources, which was discussed by the committee. The evidence included 1 systematic review, 3 randomised controlled trials (1 of which was a conference abstract and used for safety data only), 3 non- randomised comparative studies and 2 case series. It is presented in table 2 of the interventional procedures overview. Other relevant literature is in the appendix of the overview. 3.2 The specialist advisers and the committee considered the key efficacy outcomes to be: reduction in mortality and stroke morbidity, and improved quality of life. 3.3 The specialist advisers and the committee considered the key safety outcomes to be: worse neurological outcome, pneumonia and bleeding. Committee comments 3.4 There are different methods and different devices used for the procedure. 3.5 There are variations in the degree of temperature control, both in the degree of cooling and the length of treatment period, and target temperatures can be difficult to achieve. 3.6 Pneumonia was more common in patients treated with this procedure. 3.7 This procedure should be differentiated from targeted temperature management more generally, which also includes treatment and prevention of pyrexia.
