Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology (2020) 146:2589–2594
KEYWORDS: tumor, pineal, resection, ppmm, report, total, total resection, primary, melanoma, tumors, endoscopy, region, mri, cases, patient


in good condition, so the patient did not receive nary neuro-oncology meeting, the patient underwent surgi- radiotherapy or chemotherapy. The patient was discharged cal intervention. A supracerebellar infratentorial approach with mildly decreased visual acuity and no adjuvant ther- was performed. Access to the pineal region revealed a black, apy. Follow up was performed every 3 months for consul- well-defined encapsulated lesion (Fig. 2). First, the tumor tation, physical examination and head MRI examination. was resected under the microscope, and then the residual At 104 weeks follow-up, the patient was clinically asymp- tumor was found and resected by endoscopy. Total resec- tomatic without any suspicious cutaneous and mucosal tion was achieved, and finally no residual healthy pineal lesions evaluated by an expert dermatologist. Control MRI Fig. 1 Preoperative CT (a) and MRI (b–d) showed a well-demarcated and only with focally abnormal meningeal enhancement (arrow) in mass in the pineal region causing obstructive hydrocephalus. It’s 104 weeks follow-up (g, h) a complete response on the MRI brain done 12 weeks after surgery 1 3 Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology (2020) 146:2589–2594 2591 Fig. 2 a Black-pigmented lesion with granular and point-like lep- roid plexus (arrow) was found in the posterior part of the third ven- tomeningeal dissemination (arrow) was exposed intraoperatively tricle after the tumor was completely removed under the microscope. through a supracerebellar infratentorial approach. b The tumor d From the perspective of endoscopy, the residual tumor was found (arrow) exhibited a friable consistence and bled evidently. c The cho- again and completely removed Fig. 3 a–d Pathological histologic photomicrographs (400/magnification) evaluation revealed pleomorphic cells with prominent nucleoli, cytoplasmic melanization, and occasional mitotic figures. Immunostain- ing was positive for b S-100, c Melan-A and d HMB-45 (focal) evaluation revealed a stable situation only with focally can see that the median overall survival was about 65 weeks abnormal meningeal enhancement (Fig. 1). (varied from 3 to 280 weeks); median survival in patients treated with resection and radiation (n = 9/26) was 65 weeks. In patients with no treatment (n = 5/26), median survival was Discussion severely reduced (12 weeks). However, there were no reports of surgery alone without radiotherapy or chemotherapy. So So far, 27 cases (with this report) of PPMM have been the therapeutic effect of this method is uncertain. We report reported (Table 1), 13 cases underwent surgical resection, that only total resection was performed and no recurrence
