Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology (2020) 146:2589–2594
KEYWORDS: tumor, pineal, resection, ppmm, report, total, total resection, primary, melanoma, tumors, endoscopy, region, mri, cases, patient


pineal region tumor. We reported a endoscope, the tumor can be removed, the residue can be single-center retrospective study of endoscopic-assisted detected, and the blood clot in the operation field can be surgery (ES) versus microsurgery (MS) for pineal region removed, so as to effectively reduce the occurrence of tumor tumors . We found that the rate of gross residue and post-operative hydrocephalus. In the absence of total resection was significantly higher in the ES than MS gross total excision, post-operative RT should be strongly group (90.0%vs.57.1%, p = 0.04). The rate of post-operative considered. Also if the tumor is unresectable or the patient 1 3 Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology (2020) 146:2589–2594 2593 Table 2 Differential diagnosis of pineal region tumors Tumor types Demographics Typical imaging findings Pineal malignant melanoma Melanotic The average age was 52.3 (20–77) years. There was no Black, well-defined encapsulated lesion. MRI: Hyper- significant difference in the incidence rate of male intense on T1, hypointense on T2 and isointense or and female hyperintense on proton density weighted MR images Amelanotic MRI: Hypointense on T1- and hyperintense on T2-weighted MR images Pineal parenchymal tumors Pineocytomas Young adults, after second decade of life Well-circumscribed, homogeneously enhancing mass. Tends to be solid; however, cystic degeneration can occur Pineal parenchymal tumors Broad age spectrum, with mean age in the 20 s More locally invasive and heterogeneous than pineo- of intermediate differentia- cytomas. Heterogeneous enhancement. CSF seeding tion can occur Pineoblastomas Mostly affects the pediatric population Large, poorly defined mass. Peripheral calcifications in “exploded” pattern. Prone to CSF seeding Germ cell tumors Germinomas Mean age in the second decade (10–19 years) Soft tissue density mass, isodense to gray matter, with homogeneous enhancement. More central calcifica- tion “engulfed” pattern Teratomas Children, young adults Heterogeneous mass containing various tissue types, including fat and calcium CSF cerebrospinal fluid, MRI magnetic resonance imaging is medically inoperable, radical RT is the treatment option. useful in the pre-operative diagnosis of this tumor. PPMM Radiation doses of 50–60 Gy have been used for tumor con- is often associated with leptomeningeal dissemination and trol. Though focal RT (to the pineal region) should be con- ventricular ependymal spread. Therefore, we recommend sidered for localized tumors, more advanced tumors with that spinal MRI and Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cytology subependymal or leptomeningeal dissemination may require should also be part of the pre-operative and post-operative the use of whole brain
