Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology (2020) 146:2589–2594
KEYWORDS: tumor, pineal, resection, ppmm, report, total, total resection, primary, melanoma, tumors, endoscopy, region, mri, cases, patient


tumors with that spinal MRI and Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cytology subependymal or leptomeningeal dissemination may require should also be part of the pre-operative and post-operative the use of whole brain or craniospinal irradiation (Biswas follow-up. The differential diagnosis between PPMM, pin- and Chaudhari 2015). eal region germ cell tumors and pineal region parenchymal Pineal tumors are a rare and heterogeneous group of tumors can be found in Table 2 . primary central nervous system neoplasms, and PPMM As far as we know, this is the first report: combined is extremely rare. According to 27 cases, the average age microscope and endoscopy total resection; PPMM in of PPMM patients was 52.3 (20–77) years. There was no China; PPMM with total resection alone. Combined significant difference in the incidence rate of male (14 microscope and endoscopy technique can ensure that the cases) and female (13 cases). Radiologic images help in tumor can be removed to the greatest extent. Most of the diagnosis, assessment of extent of lesion and classification previous reports were from America and Europe. This is of intracranial melanomas into melanotic and amelanotic the first report in China. This report, with total resection types. Melanocytic neoplasms appear iso- to hyperdense alone, affirms the necessity of surgery. Regardless of the with homogenous contrast enhancement with or without combination of surgery and any other methods, we deeply abnormal calcification on CT scan of brain. The melanotic believe that complete tumor resection is fundamental. type contains more than 10% of melanin-containing cells. The paramagnetic property of melanin is responsible for shortened T1 relaxation time rendering this group hyperin- Conclusion tense on T1-weighted images, hypointense on T2-weighted images and isointense or hyperintense on proton density weighted MR images. Amelanotic type contains less than PPMM is a rare neoplasm, and surgery (especially total 10% melanin-containing cells and is hypointense on T1- tumor resection) is beneficial to prolong the survival of and hyperintense on T2-weighted MR images (Arantes patients. But the best approach to treatment needs verifica- et al. 2011). This imaging finding may be potentially tion from more clinical cases in future. 1 3 2 594 Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology (2020) 146:2589–2594 Acknowledgements Jibo Zhang thanks for the scholarship awarded by nevus of ota and multiple pigmented skin nevi. Arch Pathol. the China Scholarship Council (CSC 201906270198). Jibo Zhang and 95(6):392–395 Zhongwei Xiong contributed equally to this work. Famoso J, Lemole G,
