Chapter
KEYWORDS: kidney, disease, countries, esrd, percent, patients, developing, renal, diseases, rrt, treatment, dialysis, developing countries, developed, screening


Diseases of the Kidney and the Urinary System John Dirks, Giuseppe Remuzzi, Susan Horton, Arrigo Schieppati, and S. Adibul Hasan Rizvi CAUSES AND CHARACTERISTICS OF THE BURDEN worldwide are on RRT, 80 percent of whom live in Japan, OF DISEASES Europe,and North America . Thepercentageof patientsonregulardialysisvariesacross Estimates ofthe global burden ofdisease indicate that diseases countriesasaconsequenceofthecapacityofhealthcaresystems of the kidney and urinary tract account for approximately to provide treatment. Europe is an example. Whereas in the 830,000 deaths and 18,467,000 disability-adjusted life years 15countriesoftheEuropeanUnion(before2004)theprevalence annually,ranking them 12th among causes of death (1.4 per- rateofRRTwasapproximately650patientsper1millionpeople, cent ofall deaths) and 17th among causes ofdisability (1.0 per- inCentralandEasternEuropeitwasonly160patientsper1mil- cent ofall disability-adjusted life years).This ranking is similar lionpeople,reflectingdifferencesingrossnationalproduct. across World Bank regions (table 36.1). Much less is known about the prevalence ofearlier stages of Recent research suggests that the data shown in table 36.1 CKD,when symptoms may be mild,ignored,or undiagnosed. underestimate the global prevalence ofkidney disease.Chronic A lack of standardization of the stages of CKD has hampered kidney disease (CKD) patients often suffer from cardiovascular assessments ofthe burden ofCKD.In an attempt to carry out to either complication .Altered kidney func- the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the United tion is often found in patients with hypertensive and ischemic States conducted a survey from 1988 to 1994.The center ana- heart disease,both ofwhich areassociated with increased car- lyzed a sample of 15,625 noninstitutionalized individuals diovascular morbidity and mortality. Approximately 30 per- age 20 and older and defined five stages of renal dysfunction cent of patients with diabetes have diabetic nephropathy,with according to estimates of renal function and urine albumin higher rates found in some ethnic groups (King,Aubert,and level.Coresh and others (2003) found that the estimated preva- Herman1998).Table36.2showsthatbothgendersaresimilarly lence of CKD in the United States is 11 percent of the adult affected by kidney disease (Coresh and others 2003). population, or 19.8 million people. Nationally representative Generally, renal diseases progress to a final stage as end- data on U.S. adults older than 20 show that 6.3 percent, or stage renal disease (ESRD) and function is substituted by renal 11million people,have stage 1 CKD,or kidney damage (pro- replacement therapy (RRT), hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis, teinuria) with normal kidney function (Glomerular Function or transplantation. National and international registries of Rate (GFR) at least 90 milliliters per minute in 1.73 per meter patients on RRT are useful for providing information on the squared) or stage 2 CKD,that is,mildly reduced kidney func-
