Chapter
KEYWORDS: kidney, disease, countries, esrd, percent, patients, developing, renal, diseases, rrt, treatment, dialysis, developing countries, developed, screening


to retard or arrest the loss ofrenal func- .Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney dis- tion.Late detection of CKD is a lost opportunity for making ease is less frequent,with an incidence of1 in 40,000,but is an lifestyle changes and initiating therapeutic measures. important hereditary disease of childhood (Guay-Woodford, Jafri,and Bernstein 2000).Many other inherited diseases can lead to ESRD,but together they account for only a small per- CAUSES OF DISEASES OF THE KIDNEY centage ofall people with ESRD. ANDURINARY SYSTEM Kidney disease leading to ESRD has many causes.The preva- Glomerulonephritis lence varies by country,region,ethnicity,gender,and age. Glomerulonephritides are a group ofkidney diseases that affect the glomeruli. They fall into two major categories: glomeru- Genetic Diseases lonephritisrefers to an inflammation ofthe glomeruli and can Knowledge of inherited kidney disease has changed radically be primary or secondary,and glomerulosclerosisrefers to scar- with advances in molecular biology and gene-sequencing ring of the glomeruli. Even though glomerulonephritis and 696 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | John Dirks, Giuseppe Remuzzi, Susan Horton, and others glomerulosclerosis have different causes, both can lead to 300 million are at risk.The disease causes lesions in the bladder ESRD. Glomerulonephritis ranks second after diabetes as the and predisposes those with the condition to secondary infec- foremost cause of ESRD in Europe.(Stengel and others 2003) tions,bladder cancers,and chronic pyelonephritis. and is the second leading cause of ESRD in the United States, Some 15 to 20 million people have tuberculosis (TB) world- according to the United States Renal Data System ( wide, of whom 8 million to 10 million are infectious. ifrr.net/).Approximately 20 to 35 percent ofpatients requiring Genitourinary TB is a common form of extrapulmonary TB RRT have a glomerular disease. and is always secondary to the primary lesion, which usually Glomerulardiseasesaremoreprevalentandsevereintropi- occurs in the lung (Pasternak and Rubin 1997). Lesions calregionsandlow-incomecountries(Seedat2003).Acommon referred to as ulcero-cavernousor miliaryaffect the kidneys.If modeofpresentationisthenephroticsyndrome,withtheageof left untreated,such lesions may progress to kidney destruction. onsetatfivetoeightyears.Estimatesindicatethat2to3percent Early recognition of and effective therapy for TB substantially ofmedicaladmissionsintropicalcountriesarecausedbyrenal- decrease the consequences in relation to kidney function. relatedcomplaints,mostresultingfromglomerulonephritis. In the industrial countries, kidney stones are a common A number ofkidney diseases that result from infectious dis- problem (Morton,Iliescu,and Wilson 2002),affecting 1 person eases, such as malaria, schistosomiasis, leprosy, filariasis, and in 1,000 annually, and the incidence is increasing in tropical hepatitis B virus,are exclusive to the tropics.HIV/AIDS can be developing countries . Factors such as age, complicated by several forms of kidney disease; however,
