Chapter
KEYWORDS: kidney, disease, countries, esrd, percent, patients, developing, renal, diseases, rrt, treatment, dialysis, developing countries, developed, screening


of uncomplicatedurinarytractinfectionsareconsideredbenign, calculi ranges from 4 to 20 percent (Hussain and others 1996). they have significant medical and financial implications esti- Urolithiasis accounts for some 50 percent of the urological matedatapproximatelyUS$1.6billionperyear(Foxman2003). workload and the bulk ofurological emergencies.Patients may Asforcomplicatedurinarytractinfections,hospitalization present with major complications leading to eventual ESRD resultsinalmost1millionsuchinfectionsperyearintheUnited and resulting in significant morbidity and mortality.In devel- States.Bladdercatheterizationisthemostimportantcause. oped countries,only about 1 percent ofpatients are on dialysis Developing countries exhibit a different pattern of urinary because of obstructive uropathy,whereas in developing coun- tract infection. Obstructive or reflux nephropathy is often tries such as Indonesia and Thailand,obstructive uropathy is attributed to urinary schistosomiasis . often the leading cause of ESRD,accounting for 20 percent or Worldwide,200 million people are affected and an estimated more of patients on dialysis.The availability of appropriately Diseases of the Kidney and the Urinary System | 697 trained medical and surgical personnel and of equipment hypertensionhasalsobeenassociatedwithanincreasedriskof essential for treating stone disease promptly would reduce the diabeticnephropathy.Whenspecificmarkersofriskarefound, incidence of obstructive uropathy and ESRD. Cost analyses high-riskindividualscanbeidentifiedearlyandmonitoredfor indicate that the medical prevention ofstones saves more than thedevelopmentofproteinuriaandkidneydysfunction. US$2,000 per person annually (Parks and Coe 1996). The earliest sign of diabetic nephropathy is the appearance ofsmall amounts ofprotein in the urine (proteinuria).As pro- teinuria increases and blood pressure rises, kidney function Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy declines.The complete loss ofkidney function occurs at differ- Benign prostatic hypertrophy is a major cause oflower urinary ent rates among type 2 diabetes patients, but it eventually tract symptoms and leads to obstructive renal failure and occurs in 30 percent of proteinuria cases. The latter have a ESRD. By age 80, 80 percent of men have benign prostatic 10-fold increased risk ofdying from associated coronary artery ity rate of0.5 to 1.5 per 100,000 (La Vecchia,Levi,and Lucchini nephropathy to ESRD.As therapies and interventions for coro- 1995).The actual incidence ofbenign prostatic hypertrophy is nary artery disease improve,patients with type 2 diabetes may difficult to assess because ofthe lack ofepidemiological data.In survive long enough to develop kidney failure. the developed world, the incidence varies between 0.24 and 10.90 per 1,000 annually from age 50 to 80,and the probabili- Hypertension ty of prostate surgery for benign prostatic hypertrophy ranges from 1.4 to 6.0 percent (Oishi and others 1998). Hypertension and kidney disease are closely related.Most pri- mary renal diseases eventually produce hypertension.Arterial hypertension accelerates many forms ofrenal disease and has- Acute Renal Failure tens the progression to ESRD .Recent studies have Acuterenalfailurereferstoasuddenandusuallytemporaryloss
