Chapter
KEYWORDS: kidney, disease, countries, esrd, percent, patients, developing, renal, diseases, rrt, treatment, dialysis, developing countries, developed, screening


hemodialysis was introduced in 1960 and is the because early kidney disease is a major marker for CVD and most costly treatment optionat approximately US$60,000 per reinfarction,congestive heart failure,and stroke. year at a center and US$40,000 at home in developed countries. Inmiddle-incomecountriessuchasThailandandTurkeyand It is most cost-effective if used as an interim measure before inmiddle-incomecountriesinLatinAmerica(Zatz,Romão,and kidney transplant. Peritoneal dialysis—for example, continu- Noronha2003),extensivedialysisfacilitiesareavailable,asthey ous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis—was developed in the late are in some low-income countries. For example, in 2003, 1970s and is less expensive—approximately US$20,000 per Pakistanhad110centerswith2,400patientsonhemodialysis; year (Winkelmayer and others 2002). Most economies con- Indiahad100centerswith6,000patientsmostlyonhemodialy- tinue to rely on hemodialysis for dialysis patients, except for sis;andChinahad75,000patientsondialysis.Thosefiguresshow those mandating that continuous ambulatory peritoneal thatneedsandmarketsfordialysisareexpanding.However,in dialysis be the first choice—that is, Hong Kong (China), poorercountries,suchasNicaraguaandTanzania,optionsfor Mexico,New Zealand,and the United Kingdom.Switching to RRT are limited because of the lack of equipment, trained continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis has the potential of staff, and costly consumables. In addition, many low-income ufacture the consumables domestically rather than importing tures, keeping dialysis out of reach. In such countries—for them.Nevertheless,dialysis remains costly and is not a viable example, Nigeria—dialysis directed at preparation for renal long-term solution in places where health budgets are limited. transplantation is the best policy. Recent findings concerning More than 120 countries have dialysis programs (Moeller, primary prevention through lifestyle changes and secondary Gioberge, and Brown 2002). The following data from India prevention by means of pharmaceutical treatment should highlight the stark economics of dialysis . eventuallyreduce,butnoteliminate,theburdenofESRD. Government hospitals will provide hemodialysis only for acute The acknowledgment by the World Bank and the World renal failure or pretransplant stabilization (Li and Chow 2001), HealthOrganizationthatchronicconditions,particularlythose and with an incidence of100 per million population,approxi- resulting from diabetes and hypertension, will increase to mately 100,000 patients develop ESRD each year.Ofthe 10,000 becomealeadingcauseofdeathby2028hasintensifiedtheneed who consult a nephrologist,RRT is initiated for 9,000.Of the forpreventionandRRTprograms.Theneedtoincreaseaware- 8,500 who begin hemodialysis, about 60 percent are lost to ness,launch targeted screening and intervention studies,pro- follow-up within three months,probably because of the costs vide training for staff, maintain education for physicians in involved.Few remain on dialysis after 24 months.Between 17 kidney and urological disease, and assist centers for RRT is and 23 percent of those on dialysis for two to three months urgent. receive transplants. Developed nations have well-established nephrology and urologycentersattachedtoacademicmedicalinstitutionsand regionalpublicandprivatesecondaryandtertiaryreferralhos- IMPLEMENTATION OF CONTROL STRATEGIES: pitals.Theyhavetrainingprogramstomeetnationalrequire- LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE mentsforhealthprofessionals—includingrenalphysicians,pri- mary care physicians,and nurses—specializing in kidney and Measures for primary and secondary prevention
