Gastrinoma
KEYWORDS: patients, zes, gastrinomas, studies, zes patients, pnen, disease, gastric, tumor, acid, duodenal, study, table, treatment, metastases


(1) Other tumor locations include additional intra-abdominal sites (liver, bile duct, spleen pylorus, mesentery, ovary, lymph nodes) and very rarely extra-abdominal sites (heart, nonsmall cell lung cancer. Tumors in a given patient in multiple locations can be monoclonal or polyclonal. In MEN1, multiple gastrinomas were reported to arise by independent clonal events in one study ( 318 ). A more recent study ( 114 ) which include 137 microscopic and macroscopic duodeno-pancreatic NENs and 36 matched metastases in 10 patients with MEN1 assessed tumoral ARX, PDX1, Ki67, gastrin expression and alternative lengthening of telomere. Most metastases (91%) originated from a single NET of origin, however, a few patients had likely multiple, metastatic primary NETS. In 6 patients with hypergastrinemia with MEN1, periduodeno-pancreatic lymph node metastases expressed gastrin and clustered with minute duodenal gastrinomas, not with larger pNEN. The pNEN frequently clustered with high grade or alternative lengthening of telomere positive primary tumors. It was concluded that in MEN-1 patients with ZES and pNEN a duodenal origin of the periduodeno-pancreatic lymph node metastases is likely even if preoperative localization studies do not reveal a duodenal tumor ( 114 ). Clonality ( 319 ) was analyzed in 20 sporadic gastrinomas from eight patients in whom the tumor was present in at least two separate sites. A combination of methods was used to assess clonality, including MEN1 gene mutation analysis, loss of heterozygosity analysis of the MEN1 locus, and analysis of X-chromosome inactivation at the human androgen receptor locus (human androgen receptor analysis). In three patients, a somatic MEN1 gene mutation was detected in the tumor. Identical mutations were found in other tumors at different sites within the same patients. Human androgen receptor analysis in three informative patients and loss of heterozygosity analysis in five patients revealed identical clonal patterns in the tumors from multiple sites in each patient. This study ( 319 ) concluded that sporadic gastrinomas at multiple sites are monoclonal and that MEN1 gene alterations in gastrinomas occur before the development of tumor metastases. TUMOR BIOLOGY Similar to other NENs, gastrinomas frequently synthesize (pancreatic polypeptide, insulin, glucagon, somatostatin) and also secrete multiple, gastrointestinal peptides as well as chromogranins, alpha-subunits of the glycoprotein hormones, and neuron-specific enolase ( 27 , 280 , 303 , 320 - 322 ). In one study ( 303 ) plasma levels of hormones other than gastrin are elevated in 62% of ZES-patients, with one additional hormone
