Gastrinoma
KEYWORDS: patients, zes, gastrinomas, studies, zes patients, pnen, disease, gastric, tumor, acid, duodenal, study, table, treatment, metastases


Others have proposed that gastrinomas originate from multi-potential, endocrine- programmed stem cells that undergo inappropriate and incomplete differentiation toward the G-cell in the islets/pancreas ( 27 , 413 , 418 ). Although some recent studies propose that cancer stem cells, which have been described in a number of solid tumors, could also be important in the pathogenesis of pNEN or GI-NENs, at present they have not been convincingly identified and isolated in GEP-NEN pathologic samples ( 421 ). A recent detailed lineage tracing study of gastrin expressing cells in pancreas provides some of the strongest evidence that pancreatic gastrinomas in sporadic ZES cases may originate from the islets ( 412 ). In this study ( 412 ) during fetal stages up to postnatal day 7 gastrin expressing cells were abundant, whereas a small population of gastrin expressing cells existed in adult islets which co-expressed glucagon or insulin and the pancreatic gastrin positive cells were found to originate from PTF1a+ and neurogenin 3 expressing progenitors that were a subpopulation of alpha and beta cells. Furthermore, disruption of the MEN1 gene in the progenitor cells, resulted in the development of pancreatic gastrin-expressing tumors, but no animals developed ZES ( 412 ). Recent studies provide evidence that gastrinomas in MEN1/ZES may have different pathogenesis than sporadic gastrinomas and also the development of the duodenal gastrinomas and pancreatic tumors differ in these patients. In MEN1/ZES patients, it has been proposed that the duodenal gastrinomas arise from the G cells by a process of hyperplasia similar to proposed for the response of ECL cells to gastrin in the stomach ( 422 , 423 ). In MEN1/ZES patients, it is proposed that the pivotal event in the development of the multifocal gastrin neoplasms is the allelic deletion of the second MEN1 allele ( 422 , 424 ). However, this sequence was not seen in sporadic duodenal gastrinomas ( 422 , 424 ). Previous studies ( 424 ) have reported that in MEN1 gastrinomas only 46% of the tumors exhibited LOH at the MEN1 locus with the remaining 55% not exhibiting allelic loss of the MEN1 gene locus, despite having precursor lesions such as hyperplastic G cells in the crypt base or in Brunner’s glands, suggesting that mechanisms besides loss of the wild type MEN1 allele may be involved in the transition from G-cell hyperplasia to duodenal gastrinoma ( 425 ). Recent studies ( 170 , 173
