Gastrinoma
KEYWORDS: patients, zes, gastrinomas, studies, zes patients, pnen, disease, gastric, tumor, acid, duodenal, study, table, treatment, metastases


will be discussed briefly below for completeness. If the patient has fasting hypergastrinemia with a gastric pH≤2, ZES should be strongly suspected ( 55 , 59 , 70 , 73 ), as summarized in Table 8 , because an NIH ZES study found that all ZES patients off of any antisecretory drug had a fasting gastric pH≤2 ( 70 ). As shown in Table 8 the diagnosis is established in the group with FSG increased>10-fold combined with gastric pH≤2. However, in the 60% of patients with FSG<10 fold elevated, the diagnosis is strongly suspected but not proven, because there are a number of other diseases (majority=rare) which can also cause these findings that are not ZES which are listed in Table 7 ( 51 , 55 , 56 , 59 , 73 , 74 , 76 ). Table 8. Established and Recently Proposed (untested) Criteria for the Diagnosis of ZES View in own window I. Established Criteria for diagnosis of ZES Required all: Fasting serum hypergastrinemia (FSG) and gastric fluid pH≤2. 1. If FSG> 10 times elevated (over ULN) and gastric pH≤2, the diagnosis of ZES is established (exclude retained antrum almost always by history) (40% of ZES patients) 2. If FSG is <10 fold elevated and gastric pH≤2, need to perform additional testing to exclude other causes of FSG/ hyperchlorhydria) (60%) a. Secretin test positive (≥120 pg/ml increase) b. Elevated basal acid output (>15 mEq/Hr) II. Possible new criteria for diagnosing ZES in patients with Fasting Hypergastrinemia in the absence of PPI therapy (gastric pH data not available) (Proposed; not evaluated or/and should not be routinely used) A. Strongly supportive of ZES diagnosis 1. Active peptic ulcer disease (PUD) or a history compatible with recent PUD or improvement in diarrhea with PPIs combined with: a. a positive somatostatin receptor scintigraphy imaging (SRI) with either 68Ga-DOTATATE PET/CT or 111In-DTPA-octreotide with SPECT/CT imaging. b. a positive biopsy or cytology for a neuroendocrine tumor (NEN) (stronger support if a gastrinoma is found) c. a positive secretin test. d. known or strongly suspected MEN1 syndrome (i.e., a positive family history, hyperparathyroidism, or pituitary disease) 2. A patient with known MEN1 or strongly suspected MEN1 (i.e., a positive family history, hyperparathyroidism, or pituitary disease) with a positive gastrinoma by cytology/biopsy B. Moderately supportive of ZES diagnosis (consider this a tentative diagnosis) 1. Positive somatostatin receptor scintigraphy imaging (SRI) with either 68Ga-DOTATATE PET/CT or 111In-DTPA-octreotide
