Gastrinoma
KEYWORDS: patients, zes, gastrinomas, studies, zes patients, pnen, disease, gastric, tumor, acid, duodenal, study, table, treatment, metastases


with a positive gastrinoma by cytology/biopsy B. Moderately supportive of ZES diagnosis (consider this a tentative diagnosis) 1. Positive somatostatin receptor scintigraphy imaging (SRI) with either 68Ga-DOTATATE PET/CT or 111In-DTPA-octreotide with SPECT/CT imaging (sporadic disease only) or positive cytology or biopsy for a NEN, ideally a gastrinoma, (sporadic disease or MEN1 syndrome present) with a biopsy-proven absence of atrophic gastritis and negative autoimmune markers. ( 1 , 2 ) C. Weakly supportive of ZES diagnosis (insufficient alone for even a tentative diagnosis) 1. A patient with known MEN1 or strongly suspected MEN1 (i.e., a positive family history, hyperparathyroidism, or pituitary disease) with positive imaging or an SRI ( 1 ) 2. MEN1 syndrome absent but positive SRI or imaging for possible tumor ( 3 ). III. Possible new criteria supporting the diagnosis of ZES in patients with Fasting Hypergastrinemia taking PPIs ( 4 ) (gastric pH data not available) (Proposed; not evaluated or and should not be routinely used) A. Moderately supportive of ZES diagnosis (ZES is likely) 1. In a patient with or without MEN1 with active peptic ulcer disease (PUD) or a history compatible with recent PUD or improvement in diarrhea with PPIs combined with a positive biopsy or cytology for a neuroendocrine tumor (NEN) (stronger support if a gastrinoma is found. 2. In a patient without MEN1 with active peptic ulcer disease (PUD) or a history compatible with recent PUD or improvement in diarrhea with PPIs combined with a positive somatostatin receptor scintigraphy imaging (SRI) with either 68Ga-DOTATATE PET/CT or 111In-DTPA-octreotide with SPECT/CT imaging. ( 5 ) B. Weakly supportive of ZES diagnosis (consider this a tentative diagnosis) 1. In a patient without active PUD or history of diarrhea responding to PPIs without MEN1 with a biopsy-proven absence of atrophic gastritis and negative autoimmune markers with a positive SRI ( 6 , 7 ) 2. In a patient without active PUD or history of diarrhea responding to PPIs with known MEN1 or strongly suspected MEN1 (i.e., a positive family history, hyperparathyroidism, or pituitary disease) with a biopsy-proven absence of atrophic gastritis. ( 6 ) and negative autoimmune markers. ( 7 ) C. Minimally supportive of ZES diagnosis (consider this a possible diagnosis only) 1. In a patient without active PUD or history of diarrhea responding to PPIs without MEN1 with a positive SRI 2. A patient with known MEN1 or strongly suspected MEN1 (i.e., a positive family
