Gastrinoma
KEYWORDS: patients, zes, gastrinomas, studies, zes patients, pnen, disease, gastric, tumor, acid, duodenal, study, table, treatment, metastases


glucagon stimulation test. Unfortunately, the secretin tests results can be affected by PPI-inducted hypo/achlorhydria or by the presence of hypo/achlorhydria for other reasons; therefore, it cannot be reliably performed while the patient is taking PPIs or is hypo- or achlorhydric ( 573 , 574 ). The availability of a reliable serum/plasma gastrin-assay is essential in all phases of the diagnostic evaluation of a patient with possible ZES. Unfortunately, a recent study ( 516 ) examined the accuracy of 12 widely used commercial assays for FSG assessment used by laboratories in both the US and Europe demonstrated and reported that only 5 assays reliably measured gastrin concentrations, with the others either overestimating or under-estimating the true value. Hence, 7 assays produced FSG values that could lead to false diagnoses or missed diagnoses ( 56 , 516 , 521 ). The inaccuracy occurred because inadequately characterized antibodies were used that either recognized precursor/inactive fragments or did not interact with all biologically active forms. The lack of a reliable FSG assay invalidates both the assessment of the FSG levels and the results of the secretin test. This is a potential major problem, and the best approach is to check to see if the laboratory performing the FSG assay for your patients uses one of the 5 reliable gastrin-assays listed in this paper or to obtain advice from a center that routinely performs FSG studies in your area for the assay they recommend. A recent study ( 82 ) reports a rapid method to measure serum G17 an G34 using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectroscopy which might prove useful to circumvent the above problems using RIA’s. A recent study ( 55 ) pointed out in regular practice the criteria that most physicians are using to make the diagnosis of ZES are not those outlined above. This report ( 55 ) for the first time proposing new criteria which would support the diagnosis of ZES that did not involve the assessment of gastric pH, because it was found that in the last 20 cases of ZES reported in the literature, in only 5% (1/20) was an assessment of gastric acidity used in establishing the proposed ZES diagnosis of the cases reported in these studies. This has occurred primarily because of the difficulty physicians are having in assessing the gastric fluid acidity in these patients. The failure to measure gastric acidity in newly selected patients is due
