Gastrinoma
KEYWORDS: patients, zes, gastrinomas, studies, zes patients, pnen, disease, gastric, tumor, acid, duodenal, study, table, treatment, metastases


, 661 , 662 , 677 , 687 - 693 ). This lack of information about the long-term efficacy of acid antisecretory drug’s in ZES is a particular problem because of the unique acid secretory condition in ZES. In ZES there is a constant hypersecretory drive due to constant ectopic secretion of gastrinoma from the gastrinoma, resulting in a constant acid hypersecretory state, which results in a constant requirement to inhibit the acid secretion, which because it is unique to ZES, its treatment can only be addressed by long-term/lifetime study data in these patients. In contrast to ZES, there are numerous long-term PPI studies in nonZES patients, particularly in patients with advanced idiopathic GERD, and these can provide evidence for safety issues that might occur with lifetime PPI treatment ( 76 , 667 , 694 - 696 ), which is applicable to chronic treatment of ZES patients, however, this is not the case with long-term/lifetime efficacy data in ZES. Another important variable contributing to the need to have data on long-term/lifelong antisecretory efficacy in ZES patients, occurs because of the marked variation of the dose requirement between individual ZES patients as well as in each patient, which has been well-examined in short-term ZES acid secretory studies ( 225 , 518 , 519 , 554 , 561 , 661 , 662 , 677 , 687 - 689 , 697 ). This issue was recently addressed ( 72 ) in an analysis of the results of acid antisecretory treatment in ZES patients, which examined in detailed the efficacy/pharmacology of long-term/lifetime medical treatment of acid hypersecretion in a large cohort of ZES patients. This study included results from all 303 patients with established ZES who were prospectively followed and had acid antisecretory treatment with either H 2 Rs or PPIs who had antisecretory doses individually titrated by the results of regular gastric acid testing. It includes both patients treated for short-term periods (<5 years), as well as patients treated long-term (>5 yrs.), and with lifetime treatment (30%), followed for up to 48 yrs. (mean-14 yrs.). Long-term/lifelong acid antisecretory treatment with H 2 Rs/PPIs could be successfully carried out in all patients with both uncomplicated and complicated ZES (i.e., with MEN1/ZES, previous Billroth 2, severe GERD). Successful treatment in this study was only possible because the drug doses were individually set by assessing acid secretory control by measuring the acid secretory rate and adjusting
