Gastrinoma
KEYWORDS: patients, zes, gastrinomas, studies, zes patients, pnen, disease, gastric, tumor, acid, duodenal, study, table, treatment, metastases


imaging studies such as 68 Ga-DOTATOC positron emission tomographic/CT imaging ( 68 Ga-DOTATOC-PET/CT) which involve radiation. This interest has especially increased with recent studies reporting for the first time prospective ( 549 , 761 , 762 ) and non-prospective studies ( 763 , 764 ) demonstrating enhanced sensitivity/specificity for localizing NETs, including pNEN, in MEN1 patients, using 68 Ga-DOTATOC-PET/CT. Lifetime exposure to radiation may be a particular issue in MEN1 patients because basic science studies demonstrate that menin, the protein altered in patients with MEN1, is involved in DNA repair, cell cycle control and transcriptional regulation, and when there is a loss of menin activity, as occurs in MEN1 patients, cells become more sensitive to the effects of ionizing radiation as well as other cell damaging injuries ( 765 - 767 ). As a result, a number of studies have raised concerns about the use of imaging studies involving radiation in younger patients (without MEN1) ( 768 - 770 ), and whether younger MEN1 patients are at increased risk is unclear. These points raise controversies about when and how frequent these serial imaging studies should be used. For these reasons, most current guidelines, and expert opinions ( 9 , 44 , 88 , 157 , 180 - 182 ) for the treatment of pNEN in MEN1 patients recommend that MEN1/ZES patients with preoperative imaging studies demonstrating pNETs <1.5-2 cm in diameter not undergo routine surgical exploration. These guidelines also recommend that when surgical exploration is performed that Whipple resections not be routinely performed. There are however, increasing concerns raised by the number of recent studies with this general conservative approach. Important points being raised is that these patients have a markedly shortened life- expectancy (i.e., 55 yrs. in the large prospective NIH review ( 89 ) with the major cause of death being malignant NENs, although presumed pNEN in origin it is not proven at this point ( 89 ). A second major point reviewed above is the enhanced ability to localize the primary NENs and their extent preoperative with the availability of SLI, allowing an enhanced ability to plan the operation and extend of surgery needed and likely enhancing the probability of cure. A third major point is that there have been a number of series ( 95 , 99 , 102 ) from different institutions reporting high cure rates and excellent long term survival in these patients after
