Heart failure - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, figure, diuretics, ventricular, treatment, table, acute, digoxin, blood, management, use, cardiac


Chapter 7 Heart failure Background The survival rate for myocardial infarction (MI) has greatly increased in recent years due to the success of thrombolysis and primary angioplasty. However, the ensuing epidemic of heart failure has created a major public health problem. Data from the UK suggest that heart failure affects approximately 2% of the population. Furthermore, the prognosis for chronic heart failure (CHF) is poor: a patient admitted to hospital with pulmonary edema has a poorer prognosis (the 5-year mortality rate is around 50%) than a patient presenting with a carcinoma in any organ other than the lung. The many causes of heart failure (see Table 1) operate through the central mechanism of reduced ventricular function. As a consequence, the heart is unable to perfuse the tissues adequately. The resulting clinical syndrome (see Table 2) can be explained by compensatory measures, such as cardiac hypertrophy and activation of the sympathetic nervous system and the renin–angiotensin system. Table 1 Causes of heart failure. Table 2 The multiorgan symptoms of heart failure. Heart failure is categorized as either systolic or diastolic. Systolic dysfunction is due to poor left ventricular (LV) contraction, usually expressed as ejection fraction (EF). Heart failure patients with diastolic dysfunction (more common in the elderly) have normal LV ejection fraction; the defect seems to lie in relaxation of the left ventricle and is associated with delayed filling. For the generalist, one clue to diastolic dysfunction lies in the chest x-ray (CXR), which can show signs of congestion without significant LV dilatation. However, echocardiography is required for a firm diagnosis (see Chapter 4, Understanding the echocardiogram). Pathophysiology The approach to heart failure has changed enormously over the past few years (see Figure 1). Earlier thinking focused on inadequate pump function and the accepted therapeutic wisdom was to bolster it with β-agonist inotropes. The idea of treating heart failure by blocking the sympathetic nervous system would have been regarded as heretical and dangerous. However, it has now been realized that most CHF pathology is a result of the body's own compensatory mechanisms (see Figure 2) and that interrupting these neurohumoral pathways achieves more than attempting to "overdrive" the failing heart. The exception is acute decompensation (acute heart failure, pulmonary edema, cardiogenic shock), where the focus is on short-term survival; although the primary aim is still the reduction of preload and afterload using diuretics and vasodilators, inotropes in the form of β-agonists
