Heart failure - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, figure, diuretics, ventricular, treatment, table, acute, digoxin, blood, management, use, cardiac


shock), where the focus is on short-term survival; although the primary aim is still the reduction of preload and afterload using diuretics and vasodilators, inotropes in the form of β-agonists are also used. Figure 1 Treatment of heart failure according to (a) old and (b) new paradigms. ADH: antidiuretic hormone (vasopressin). 1/9 Figure 2 Chronic heart failure. TNF: tumor necrosis factor. Clinical history and examination The hallmark of heart failure is dyspnea. The classic combination of raised jugular venous pressure (JVP), peripheral edema, palpable liver, basal crepitations, tachycardia, and a third heart sound is well known. Orthopnea (shortness of breath when lying flat) and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea (acute nocturnal shortness of breath) are both manifestations of decompensation of ventricular function – precipitated by diurnal susceptibility and increased venous return resulting from adoption of the supine position. In an elderly person, the cause of acute shortness of breath can often be difficult to diagnose, and the chest may reveal nothing but coarse breath sounds throughout. In this situation, two factors are helpful: the JVP and overt sympathetic overactivation (cold peripheries and profuse sweating). Investigations Electrocardiography The electrocardiogram of a patient with heart failure often shows LV hypertrophy (LVH). This may show a "strain" pattern (LVH plus ST depression), most commonly in the lateral chest leads. Arrhythmias are also common in heart failure. Chest x-ray Classic signs on CXRs are common only for acute heart failure. Typically, some of the following signs are seen (see Figure 3): Figure 3 (a) Classic signs of acute heart failure that can be seen on a chest x-ray of left ventricular failure. (b) Pleural effusion on a chest x-ray. cardiomegaly (see Figure 4) upper lobe blood diversion "bat's wing" alveolar edema pleural effusions Kerley B lines (lymphatics) Figure 4 Cardiomegaly and pleural effusion (on the right side) in a patient with heart failure. Echocardiography This is the investigation of choice and can identify and quantify LVH and dysfunction (both systolic and diastolic) as well as examine causes of heart failure, such as valve abnormalities. 2/9 Blood tests The measurement of natriuretic peptides for the diagnosis of heart failure is not yet routine. However, other blood tests can contribute to the clinical picture. The sodium concentration is often low (<130 mmol/L, despite high total body sodium) as a result of dilution and is a strong prognostic indicator. The potassium level is altered by many of the therapeutic
