Heart failure - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, figure, diuretics, ventricular, treatment, table, acute, digoxin, blood, management, use, cardiac


often low (<130 mmol/L, despite high total body sodium) as a result of dilution and is a strong prognostic indicator. The potassium level is altered by many of the therapeutic agents and should be kept in the mid to high normal range (4.25–5 mmol/L) to minimize the risk of arrhythmia. If the pulse is of full volume, investigative blood tests for anemia and thyroid function should be carried out. If echo suggests restrictive cardiomyopathy, further tests can be carried out for iron storage disease, amyloidosis, or sarcoidosis. Management: acute heart failure The approach to the management of acute decompensation is different from that to CHF. Acute pulmonary edema should be managed by: sitting the patient up giving high-flow oxygen giving diamorphine (2.5–5 mg intravenous [IV]) giving nitrates (sublingual at first, then isosorbide mononitrate 2–10 mg/hour IV) giving loop diuretics (eg, furosemide [frusemide] 40–80 mg slow IV) Blood pressure is a key measurement and should be considered when deciding the rate of a nitrate infusion or whether to use β-agonists. If the systolic blood pressure drops below 100 mm Hg, consideration should be given to replacing the nitrate infusion with one containing dobutamine (2–10 μg/kg/min). Although the effect of an IV diuretic can often be dramatic (probably due to an early effect on pulmonary venous dilatation), nitrates are preferred because, in addition to decreasing preload, they also decrease peripheral resistance and do not reduce cardiac output. It is also important to take the precipitating factor into account. If, for example, a patient is in atrial fibrillation, slowing the ventricular rate may be more effective than a combination of more general measures. Similarly, if a patient has suffered an MI then thrombolysis or intervention may be the key to their recovery. Management: cardiogenic shock Cardiogenic shock, which has a 90% mortality rate, is the most severe form of acute heart failure. It is diagnosed when acute heart failure and hypotension are resistant to the measures described above and there is evidence of tissue hypoxia. Treatment, which should be in the coronary care unit of a specialist center, involves inotropic support, invasive monitoring equipment, intra-aortic balloon pumping, and, in the setting of MI, cardiac catheterization. Intra-aortic balloon pump counterpulsation Intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) counterpulsation was developed in the early 1960s. A balloon is inserted, via the femoral artery, into the descending aorta (see Figure 5). Using electrocardiography for synchronization, the balloon is almost
