Heart failure - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, figure, diuretics, ventricular, treatment, table, acute, digoxin, blood, management, use, cardiac


counterpulsation was developed in the early 1960s. A balloon is inserted, via the femoral artery, into the descending aorta (see Figure 5). Using electrocardiography for synchronization, the balloon is almost instantaneously, automatically inflated with helium at the onset of diastole, then deflated just prior to systole. This serves a dual purpose: Figure 5 (a) Insertion of an intra-aortic balloon pump and (b) the corresponding arterial pressure waveform. 3/9 it improves coronary blood flow by increasing the perfusion pressure in the ascending aorta during diastole it encourages systemic perfusion by reducing impedance to ventricular ejection at the point of balloon deflation (it creates a negative pressure which helps to "suck" the blood out) Contraindications to IABP include severe aortic regurgitation and aortic dissection. Management: chronic heart failure The chronic form of heart failure is a condition that most generalists treat every day. When referring these patients, it is useful to classify the severity of heart failure. This is facilitated by a very simple scale: the New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional classification (see Table 3). It is straightforward and provides a common language that is understood by cardiologists worldwide. Table 3 The New York Heart Association functional classification of chronic heart failure. Diagnosis and assessment The initial diagnosis and assessment of the severity and progression of CHF can be made using echo and exercise testing with gas analysis. The most commonly used echo measure is the EF. This is rated as: 45%–70%, normal 35%–45%, mildly impaired 25%–35%, moderately impaired <25%, severely impaired <15%, end-stage/transplant candidates 5% is compatible with life, but not long life The single best exercise-testing measurement is the maximum rate of oxygen consumption (VO 2 max). In a situation where cardiac and respiratory causes of dyspnea coexist, exercise testing with gas analysis can be particularly useful in discerning which is the greater problem. Treatment The first step in the management of CHF is patient education. It is easy for physicians to forget (since they use the term every day) that, to most patients, heart "failure" sounds significantly worse than "myocardial infarction", "heart attack", or even "cardiac arrest". Educating patients about their condition – by giving them information about avoiding excessive salt intake and teaching them how to use their daily weight to monitor fluid balance – will pay dividends in long-term management. Historical Hearts Hippocrates believed that the left side of the heart and its associated arteries were
