Heart failure - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, figure, diuretics, ventricular, treatment, table, acute, digoxin, blood, management, use, cardiac


their daily weight to monitor fluid balance – will pay dividends in long-term management. Historical Hearts Hippocrates believed that the left side of the heart and its associated arteries were conduits for air rather than blood. Galen (AD 138–201) thought that blood passed through invisible pores in the ventricular septum. Such was his influence on Roman medical thinking that this idea remained in place until the 15th century when an embargo on the dissection of human 4/9 cadavers was lifted by the Pope. Not long after this, Leonardo da Vinci and others began to produce detailed anatomical drawings, and William Harvey finally described the function of the heart as a pump that pushed blood through a circulatory system, beat by beat. Spironolactone, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs), and β-blockers are the only agents that have been shown to reduce heart failure mortality, and all are now widely used in the community. However, their use requires caution. Although not strictly necessary, most practitioners use short-acting preparations (eg, captopril, metoprolol) when first starting these treatments. Diuretics Although diuretics are the mainstay of CHF management, their main role is in symptom control – they may even increase neurohumoral activation. An approach that allows patients to take control of their own diuretic dosage and alter it according to their daily weight (in much the same way as diabetics alter their insulin dosage) may be successful in many patients. It is recommended that diuretics should always be used with an ACEI. In addition, the skillful use of diuretics with complementary actions (see Figure 6, Tables 4 and 5) can aid diuresis and even avoid hospital admission if the balance is upset. Given the choice between increasing the dose of a loop diuretic or adding another agent, it is usually best to add another agent. Figure 6 The mechanism of action of diuretics in chronic heart failure management. Table 4 Diuretics used in the treatment of heart failure. Table 5 Treatment of heart failure with diuretics (loop diuretics, thiazides, metolazone). Spironolactone has been shown to improve outcomes in stage III–IV heart failure with an effect equivalent to that of ACE inhibition (25 mg spironolactone has a beneficial effect on remodeling, but essentially no effect on potassium levels and diuresis). Metolazone is a thiazide-like diuretic that has a powerful synergistic action with loop diuretics, so should be used in the community only as a last resort, for short
