Heart failure - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, figure, diuretics, ventricular, treatment, table, acute, digoxin, blood, management, use, cardiac


and diuresis). Metolazone is a thiazide-like diuretic that has a powerful synergistic action with loop diuretics, so should be used in the community only as a last resort, for short periods, and be accompanied by daily electrolyte checks. Defining Hearts Pulmonary edema was first explained by Henry Welch, who showed that it could be reproduced by obstructing the outflow of the left ventricle. However, the first definition of heart failure was provided by Theophile Bonet (1620–1689), who published clinico- pathological studies linking the effects of valvular disease and cardiac chamber size to the clinical features of dyspnea and edema. 5/9 Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors ACEIs were the first agents shown to reduce mortality in heart failure. Angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) are currently reserved for those patients with an ACE cough. Guidelines for starting ACEIs are outlined in Table 6. Table 6 The recommended procedure for starting an angiotensin- converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI). Beta-blockers Much of the early work on β-blockers used carvedilol – a nonselective β-blocker, α-antagonist, and antioxidant. However, although its significant effect appeared to result from β-blockade resulting in many different β-blocking agents being used, recent trials have suggested there may be effects over and above that of β-blockade. Beneficial effects of β-blockade include a reduction in heart rate (which increases myocardial perfusion), regression of LVH (probably related to inhibition of the deleterious effects of excess catecholamines), and a reduction in sudden death (probably related to a reduction in ventricular fibrillation – 50% of heart failure deaths are due to arrhythmia). Digoxin Digoxin has perhaps the longest history of any of the treatments for heart failure. However, being a positive inotrope, it occupies a controversial place overarching the old and new paradigms for the treatment of sinus rhythm heart failure. It works by increasing cellular calcium via inhibition of Na+/K+ ATPase and consequent reduction of Ca2+ extrusion via Na+/Ca2+ exchange (see + Figure 7). As K "competes" with digoxin at the ATPase site, digoxin can become toxic in hypokalemic patients. Symptoms of digoxin toxicity are gastrointestinal upset and (more rarely) visual disturbances and headache. However, despite its widespread use, there have been no large, prospective, placebo-controlled trials to determine the efficacy of digoxin in reducing mortality (although it has been shown to reduce hospital admissions). Figure 7 + + Mechanism of action of digoxin. Digoxin inhibits Na /K + ATPase. As a consequence of an increased intercellular Na concentration,
