Heart failure - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, figure, diuretics, ventricular, treatment, table, acute, digoxin, blood, management, use, cardiac


been shown to reduce hospital admissions). Figure 7 + + Mechanism of action of digoxin. Digoxin inhibits Na /K + ATPase. As a consequence of an increased intercellular Na concentration, Ca2+ extrusion (via Na+/Ca2+ exchange) is reduced. The result is an increase in cellular Ca2+. Hydralazine and nitrates The vasodilator combination of hydralazine (up to 300 mg) and nitrates (160 mg isosorbide dinitrate) has been tested with digoxin and diuretics in several large trials and has been associated with mortality reductions in heart failure. However, the advent of ARBs is likely to offer a better alternative to ACEIs than this drug combination. Future directions Areas of controversy still exist in the management of CHF. For example, aspirin is known to be effective as an aid to secondary prevention of coronary artery disease. However, it can reduce the efficacy of ACEIs. Also, despite the high rate of heart failure deaths due to arrhythmia (50%), amiodarone is the only antiarrhythmic (so far) that has been shown to reduce mortality. New agents currently being investigated in trials include: 6/9 2+ calcium sensitizers (increase contractile response to intracellular Ca ) endothelin antagonists (there are increased levels of endothelin – a potent vasoconstrictor – in heart failure); results of all recent trials have been negative or neutral at best TNF-α antibodies; recent trials all produced negative results neutral endopeptidase inhibitors (neutral endopeptidase breaks down atrial natriuretic peptide and brain natriuretic peptide – peptides with diuretic, natriuretic, and vasodilator properties) Heart failure treatments, according to NYHA classification, are outlined in Table 7. Table 7 Treatment of heart failure according to the New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional classification of congestive heart failure. Nonpharmacotherapies Recent evidence suggests that individualized exercise training programs can be beneficial in stable, mild to moderate heart failure. Like most other aspects of the treatment of heart failure, today's advice (exercise) is the opposite of that from 30 years ago (bed rest). Early Treatments The first breakthrough in the treatment of heart failure was by William Withering (1741– 1799), who published observations of the therapeutic use of digitalis (foxglove). Ironically, he believed its main mechanism of action was diuretic. Until the discovery of digitalis, treatment for heart failure had remained unchanged since Egyptian times: bed rest, fluid restriction, and weak herbal diuretics were combined with starvation, laxatives, and venesection. Patients can perhaps derive some solace from the fact they are living today, rather
