Heart failure - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, patients, figure, diuretics, ventricular, treatment, table, acute, digoxin, blood, management, use, cardiac


times: bed rest, fluid restriction, and weak herbal diuretics were combined with starvation, laxatives, and venesection. Patients can perhaps derive some solace from the fact they are living today, rather than 200 years ago. Revascularization of patients with heart failure is being considered increasingly as it is realized that chronic LV dysfunction does not necessarily mean permanent or irreversible cell damage. Myocardium that has suffered low-level ischemia and no longer contributes significantly to ventricular function (hibernating myocardium) remains viable, and therefore potentially rescuable. It can be detected by cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging, perfusion imaging, low-dose dobutamine stress echo, or PET scanning (perfusion metabolism mismatch). Many patients with systolic heart failure exhibit significant intra- or interventricular conduction delays (IVCDs) that cause ventricular dysynchrony, recognized by a wide QRS complex on the ECG (typically, a left bundle branch block morphology). Ventricular dysynchrony has several important consequences for cardiac performance, which include abnormal interventricular septal wall motion, reduced diastolic filling time, and prolonged mitral regurgitation duration. In addition, there is a proportional increase in mortality with increasing QRS duration. Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) provides atrial-synchronized, biventricular pacing using standard pacing technology combined with a special third lead. This third lead is implanted via the coronary sinus and positioned in a cardiac vein to sense and pace the left ventricle. Following a sensed atrial contraction, both ventricles are stimulated to contract simultaneously. The resulting resynchronization of ventricular contraction reduces mitral regurgitation and optimizes left ventricular filling, thereby improving cardiac function. 7/9 Transplantation and ventricular assist devices are options for end-stage disease. Local availability and guidelines vary. Indications are: severe LV dysfunction (eg, EF <20% as demonstrated by radionuclide ventriculography) VO max <14 mL/kg/min (patients with values above this tend to have a better prognosis 2 without surgery) Contraindications center on comorbidities, eg, vasculopathy, diabetes mellitus with target-organ damage, or pulmonary hypertension. In addition, few centers will transplant patients over the age of 60 years. Several studies have shown clear benefit from a multidisciplinary approach to heart failure treatment. Specialist nurses who visit patients in the community can significantly reduce the rate of hospitalization by helping with exercise, symptom control, and fluid balance, and by alerting the medical team early to any potential deterioration. Palliative care The very poor prognosis associated with heart failure begs the question of the availability of hospice care and end-of-life support for this population. The irony remains that while cancer
