Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29 Dietary Relationships between Obesity and Inflammatory Bowel Diseases: A Narrative Review of Diets Which May Promote Both Diseases Andrew Szilagyi1,2 · Jonathan Wyse1 · Jennifer Abdulezer3 Accepted: 14 April 2025 / Published online: 30 April 2025 © The Author(s) 2025 Abstract Purpose of Review The pandemic of obesity preceded global spread of Inflammatory Bowel diseases by almost 2 decades. A pathogenic relationship has been described between obesity and inflammatory bowel diseases, but Crohn`s disease may be selectively impacted. The role of diet in pathogenesis has also gained significant support in the last few decades. This review explores dietary relationships to account for epidemiological observations. Recent Findings and Summary Quantifiable indices for diets have been described including a glycemic index, inflamma- tory indices and levels of food processing. Meta-analyses have been published which examine each for effects on obesity and co-morbidities as well as Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis. This review suggests that ultra-processed foods provide the best link between obesity and Crohn’s disease explaining epidemiological observations. However, the other 2 types of dietary indices likely contribute to ulcerative colitis as well as to co-morbidities related to both obesity and inflammatory bowel diseases. The term ultra-processed foods cover a large number of additives and extensive work is needed to define individual or com- bined harmful effects. Furthermore, the interactions among the 3 main indices need clarification in order to precisely apply therapeutic diets to both diseases (obesity and inflammatory bowel disease). Keywords Obesity · Co-morbidities · Crohn`s · Ulcerative colitis · Diet quantitative Introduction Among these the Inflammatory Bowel Diseases (IBD; con- sisting of ulcerative colitis UC and Crohn’s disease, CD) are The last five decades has seen a pandemic of obesity , the most recent . There is a hypothesis suggesting accompanied by type 2 diabetes (T2D) and fatty liver dis- that obesity, because of the presence of low grade inflam- ease (NAFLD), more recently renamed Metabolic Dysfunc- matory state predisposes to IBD by setting up conditions tion- Associated Steatotic Liver Disease (MASLD) . for that disease . Pathogenic relationships between OB Obesity (OB) was designated as a disease by the World and IBD have been described . However, CD is reported civilization diseases accompany obesity (OB) [7–10]. morbidities associated with OB are also related with both forms of IBD . * Obesity spread across the globe starting from North Andrew Szilagyi America in the
