Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


obesity (OB) [7–10]. morbidities associated with OB are also related with both forms of IBD . * Obesity spread across the globe starting from North Andrew Szilagyi America in the mid1970 s . While IBD has been ini- tially confined to Europe and North America, recently, it has become more common in low incidence regions of the world [16–18]. On a global level (although not regionally) of Medicine, 3755 Cote St Catherine Rd, Montreal, Quebec H3 T 1E2, Canada the correlation between CD and UC is strong . The cor- Decarie Blvd, Côte Saint-Luc, Canada the beginning of the current century up to 2008, was found Work, Montreal, Canada tive studies suggest that there is a relatively low correlation Vol.:(0123456789) between Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and IBD, a recog- inflammatory processes in the gut . The pro-inflamma- nized marker of national wealth which is a potential corre- tory effects of Western diets alter the microbiome/metabo- late of industrialization. . When data were extended lome, intestinal mucus layer, and the intestinal epithelial in available countries and time up to 2013, the correlations barrier functions as further detailed below. between OB, CD and UC were moderate (CD, r = 0.5-, UC, There are four characteristics of Western diet (all rec- r = 0.51) . While these results suggest a relationship ognized in the last 3 decades). Addition of obesogens may between OB and IBD causality cannot be inferred. contribute to the existing pandemic. These are compounds Indeed, OB is attributed to multiple factors, exposomes which cause weight gain independent of calorie content. , but the major hypothesis for the pandemic is spread They may increase number of volume of fat cells. Alter- of altered Western style dietary consumption . Produc- natively, they may alter appetite, metabolic rate, or energy tion of Western type diet required a degree of industriali- balance. These include food additives and environmental zation. This lead to inventions which modified basic foods pollutants which interfere with the normal feedback mecha- through processing. Such modifications resulted in relatively nisms of endocrine and metabolic functions [25–27]. These cheaper foods with improved shelf lives. As a result less additives may contribute also to inflammation (for example industrialized nations could relieve hunger by purchasing sugary drinks quoted below). However, the addition of vari- such products. ous food additives are usually measured in the context of The pathogenesis of IBD is also thought to
