Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


purchasing sugary drinks quoted below). However, the addition of vari- such products. ous food additives are usually measured in the context of The pathogenesis of IBD is also thought to be related to other foods and are not by themselves quantifiable. multiple exposomes . However, the same crude studies Three other type of diets use quantifiable features. suggest that on a global level IBD is closer correlated with Although, not mutually exclusive, these include the glycemic GDP and weakly with obesity . When another index Index, Inflammatory indices (defined as diets that increase of socioeconomic development, the HDI, is used, the pattern measurable markers of inflammation) and the level of food of correlations are similar except CD has a higher r value of processing). These three type of diets can be used to com- 0.75 with HDI (unpublished observations). pare dietary effects. The concept of exposomes explaining both diseases con- tains inherent examples of contributing variables including Glycemic Index (GI) different genetic predisposition to both IBD and OB, early life exposure to antibiotics in IBD, smoking, birth control medications and other variables. Further, industrialization Excess sugars and carbohydrates in the Western diet leads is associated with other factors which could impact on IBD to increased glycemia and stimulates insulin. The con- development. cept of glycemic index was first introduced by Jenkins and In the past several years the pathogenic role of diet in IBD Wolover . The index represents a comparison of the ratio has been gaining support. This narrative review will explore expressed as a percentage of the glycemic response to a ref- relationships between Western style diets, obesity and both erence food such as glucose solution or white bread. (GI forms of IBD. A review of the characteristics of Western = (iAUC /iAUC ) × 100: AUC = Area Under test food reference food diets and their potential effects on intestinal defenses is the Curve) . The glycemic index was developed origi- reviewed. We will then explore the relationships between nally based on the notion that more complex carbohydrates meta-analyses focusing on the role of foods quantified by result in as rapid rise in blood sugar. In general it would be responses to carbohydrate ingestion, inflammatory responses better for diabetics to have a diet rich in complex carbohy- and level of processing. By examining epidemiological pat- drates with a low glycemic index which releases glucose terns and mechanistic
