Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


for diabetics to have a diet rich in complex carbohy- and level of processing. By examining epidemiological pat- drates with a low glycemic index which releases glucose terns and mechanistic studies, we aim to clarify how diet slowly into the blood stream . Overall, however, the may serve as a bridge linking obesity to IBD, particularly glycemic response depends on the intake amount whether a CD. low or high glycemic food is ingested. The glycemic index is then applicable to designating different foods and how they impact on the rise of blood glucose, insulin and is related to Quantifiable Characteristics of Western Diets the glycemic load. The rise of blood glucose and associated insulin response is associated with insulin resistance, oxida- The Western diet is characterized by high fat, sugar, and tive stress, and induction of inflammation . The glycemic salt, along with varying degrees of food processing and low index has been evaluated in the context of cardiovascular fiber intake. The pandemic of obesity is also marked by low risks. Bullo et al. studied 511 elderly people and followed intensity of physical activity . OB and many dis- them for a year with a Food Frequency Questionnaire. These eases are thought to be related to a process of chronic low- participants were part of a 6 year study evaluating cardio- grade inflammation, and western diet is thought to promote vascular risks. They measured leptin and adiponectin as well as some markers of inflammation. At baseline TNFα the Atlantic Ocean are considered anti-inflammatory. levels were significantly elevated (15.36, CI; 13.14–18.4, Both the Mediterranean and Atlantic diets consist of foods p = 0.046) in participants in the 4 th quartile of high glyce- (more fish, nuts and more fiber) with less potential produc- mic food intake. After a year, the highest quartile intake of tion of pro-inflammatory cytokines. It is of note that an foods with a high glycemic index was associated with lower anti-inflammatory index was developed for the Mediterra- leptin (Delta; − 0.39, CI:− 0.87- − 0.26, p = 0.019) and nean diet which was inversely correlated with the dietary adiponectin (Delta; − 15.14,CI: − 27.3- − 0.29, p = 0.027) inflammatory index (r was – 0.45) . Examples of anti differences from baseline. This suggested a higher risk for and pro-inflammatory foods are shown in Table 1, based on CVD with high glycemic intake . However, the glycemic
