Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


of anti differences from baseline. This suggested a higher risk for and pro-inflammatory foods are shown in Table 1, based on CVD with high glycemic intake . However, the glycemic references [43–57]. index is somewhat more controversial when applied to other Western diseases. First, not every study consistently shows a Ultra‑Processed Foods (UPFs) relationship of the glycemic index with obesity and second, very few studies show any relationship with IBD. These will be further discussed below. An important attribute of Western diet is the recognition of the extent of food processing. Industrialization has led to the modification of basic foods to various extents. The Inflammatory Indices original purpose of food processing was to make foods safer and enhance shelf life at a cheaper cost. However, Mon- The notion of quantifying inflammatory effects of diet was teiro questioned the aggressive marketing of ultra-processed different food nutrients were evaluated for their ability to by the time he published it was recognized that processed affect C- reactive protein (CRP), a marker of inflammation. foods contributed to obesity. The degree of food processing Shivappa et al. in 2014 refined this concept. The impor- has been classified into four levels based on NOVA classi- tant change was that the inflammatory index was based on fication (this stands for the Portuguese term, nova the literature consisting of about 2000 articles where indi- classificação,'new classification’). These are shown with vidual food items were related to an expanded measure- examples in Table 2. ment of pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines It is estimated that the Western diet contains up to 50% (IL- 1b, IL- 4, IL- 6, IL- 10, and TNF-α) as well as CRP. UPFs . The impact of UPFs has been reviewed in Based on this review they evaluated an algorithm which general and for obesity and associated complications assessed 45 individual nutrients and food items and how specifically . These UPFs have been associated with they affected measured parameters. Foods which raised IL a high inflammatory potential as well [64–66]. However, 4 and IL10 and/or lowered IL- 1b, IL- 6, TNF-α and CRP a question remains whether diets based on inflammatory were deemed anti-inflammatory while those that did the indices predict the same level of effects. The largest study opposite were deemed pro-inflammatory. The index range by Minogna et al. evaluated the relationship between extended from − 8.87 (anti-inflammatory) to a maximum an energy dependent DII
