Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


The largest study opposite were deemed pro-inflammatory. The index range by Minogna et al. evaluated the relationship between extended from − 8.87 (anti-inflammatory) to a maximum an energy dependent DII diet and UPFs against a known of 7.98 (pro-inflammatory). A modification of the original marker of high DII related score (INFLA –score) in a popu- Shivappa index was published later . The application lation numbering 24,325 men and women. A positive cor- of combining single food items to derive an overall effect relation was noted between a higher EDII and UPFs, and a is quite daunting in practice. To make this concept easier lower association with minimally processed foods. When to use, a somewhat simplified algorithm was developed by the relationship was assessed with a multivariable model, Tabung et al. This index called the Estimated Dietary Index DII explained 88.5% of the INFLA – score. However, UPFs (EDII) measures three markers (IL- 6, TNF-αR2 and CRP) explained only 32.6% of the INFLA – score. This suggested based on 18 food groups with 9 anti and 9 pro-inflammatory that the DII may not capture all the effects of UPFs. The scores . Several other variations on the DII were pub- authors hypothesized that additional factors were likely lished . One of these was used to assess an estimated affected by processing (e.g. impact on food matrix). This DII in IBD and is further described in the section on indexed difference may be relevant because it raises an imprecision diets below in the section on ‘The Western diet and Inflam- in evaluating effects of diets for IBD (as well as other dis- matory Bowel Diseases’. eases). Furthermore, specific effects of individual UPFs need On a more practical level diets consisting of pro or anti- to be assessed for interfering with different foods and diets inflammatory food groups have generally been assigned. In given for disease. However, this under assessment of the this paradigm, the Western diet is generally considered as DII of diets may be more specific for CD since as described area and more recently, southern countries bordering with UC. Table 1 Outline of different foods and food groupings which have been evaluated for inflammatory cytokine induction. These classifications are based on references [43–57] Group Food Anti-inflammatory Pro- inflam- matory Legumes Beans (e.g.: chickpeas, red kidney beans, black beans, navy beans, etc.) x Lentils, peas x Peanuts x Soy (tofu and
