Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


on references [43–57] Group Food Anti-inflammatory Pro- inflam- matory Legumes Beans (e.g.: chickpeas, red kidney beans, black beans, navy beans, etc.) x Lentils, peas x Peanuts x Soy (tofu and edamame) x Fermented Soy (tempeh, miso, fermented tofu) x Nuts Nuts (all kinds) x Vegetables Cruciferous (e.g.: broccoli, cauliflower, kale, radish, brussels sprouts, cabbage, x turnip, etc.) Mushrooms x Sweet Potato x Fruits Citrus (e.g.: orange, grapefruit, lemon, lime, etc.) x Berries (raspberries, strawberries, blueberries, and blackberries) x Stone fruit (e.g.: cherries, peaches, apricots, plums, etc.) x Avocado x Tomatoes x Meats Red x Processed (deli meats, sausages, bacon, and hot dogs) x Fatty fish (e.g.: salmon, mackerel, tuna, sardines, etc.) x Fermented Dairy Yogurt (plain) and kefir x Fats and Oils Butter x Hydrogenated Margarine x Extra Virgin Olive Oil x Avocado oil x Grains Refined white grains (e.g.: flour, pasta, rice, etc.) x Whole oats x Quinoa and amaranth x Khorasan wheat (KAMUT) x Others Added sugar x UPF (e.g.: dehydrated soups, commercial baked goods, frozen meals) x Deep fried and fast foods x High Fructose Corn Syrup x Beverages Sugar sweetened juices and fruit cocktails x Sugar sweetened teas x Soft drinks (diet and regular) x Sports drinks x Alcohol x Although, the impacts of UPFs have been studied exten- vagueness of what is meant by UPF. The author uses the sively on risks for diseases, the actual causality has not yet example of flavoured yogurt and suggests that while plain been universally accepted. The reasons include the argu- yogurt may be relatively free of processing, the addition of ments that UPFs improve food safety, have lower costs and sugar, and food coloring makes for increased processing. longer shelf lives. A recent publication challenged the role Second, because UPFs are cheaper,it may correlate with of UPFs as a cause of obesity based on statistical speci- poor diets in general. As well there is no specific data on may be raised for other diseases as well. In the case of IBD, (including dose or threshold effects) . This criticism Fitzpatrick et al. questioned the possible variability in the may also echo questions raised for effects of inflammatory NOVA classification. Some of these limitations involve the indices above. Table 2 The nova classification of level of food processing. Processing increases from 1 to 4 (based on references and modified from reference with permission from Elsevier (through Rights Link) NOVA
