Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


2 The nova classification of level of food processing. Processing increases from 1 to 4 (based on references and modified from reference with permission from Elsevier (through Rights Link) NOVA 1 NOVA 2 NOVA 3 NOVA 4 Minimal or Unprocessed Foods Processed Culinary Foods Processed Foods Ultra Processed Foods UPFs Fresh, Dry or Frozen Plant oils(Olive, Coconuts) Canned/pickled vegetables, fruits Sugary Drinks Grains Animal fats (cream, butter lard) Canned meats/fish Sweet/savory packed snacks Meat, Fish Maple syrup Oils, salt, sugar by canning, pickling Reconstituted meats Nuts, Seeds Salt Smoking, curing Prepared frozen dishes Group N1 foods Fermentation Chicken nuggest Inedible unwanted Pressing, refining Contains 2–3 additives Ice cream No added substances Grinding, milling Formulations made from a series of processes including ex-tractions, chemical modifications. Very little group N1 foods Drying Contains ≥ 5 additives Effects of Diet on the Intestine diets with low processed foods and absence of sugary drinks prevented intestinal inflammatory response. High fiber diets Major determinants of the impact of different food content resulted in increased short chain fatty acids (SCFA) which are their effects on intestinal microbiome/metabolome, in turn improved the immune response. Poor adherence to intestinal mucus layer, and the intestinal epithelial barrier anti-inflammatory diets increased risks for IBD. Similar to function. many studies on microbiome the outcomes could not yet The intestinal microbiome consists of bacteria, archaea, establish causation between observations and risks of IBD. fungi, and viruses . While all may be important for func- Part of the protection of the host against invasion by tion, the main thrust of research and knowledge at this time potential pathogens is the mucus layer overlying the mucosa, is based on changes in bacterial populations and metabolism. which gets progressively thicker distally. Moreover, the The microbiome is malleable and responds to many stimuli, colon is covered by a second layer of mucus that is more particularly diets. The 2 main bacterial phyla making up superficial and coherent while the deeper layer is more human microbiome (85 − 90%) are the gram + ive Firmi- adherent . These layers are re-enforced by proteins that cutes and the gram – ive Bacteroidetes. About 10- 15% are are antibacterial, secreted, by Paneth cells from the epithelial made up of Proteobacteria, Fusobacteria and Verrucomi- layer, IgA secreting Plasma cells and a number of enzyme crobia . Western diet consisting of high fat and low fiber inhibitors [74–76]. The layer of
