Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


Proteobacteria, Fusobacteria and Verrucomi- layer, IgA secreting Plasma cells and a number of enzyme crobia . Western diet consisting of high fat and low fiber inhibitors [74–76]. The layer of mucus is kept in balance by results in disruption of relationships among normal micro- synthetic rate and the presence of mucin degrading bacteria flora (dysbiosis), increased intestinal immune responses and such as Akkermansia muciniphila and Bacteroides thetaio- increased intestinal epithelial damage with altered barrier taomicron. The degradation of mucus leads to formation of function . other oligosaccharides which promotes the cross-feeding of An encompassing study from the Netherlands by Bolte other bacteria . The impacts of Western and low fiber et al. evaluated 173 food items consumed long term by 1425 diets have shown reducing effects on intestinal mucus. The participants who were divided into four cohorts. These loss of fiber in diet leads to expansion of mucin degrading included patients with Crohn`s disease, ulcerative colitis, bacteria which metabolize host glycans and results in loss of irritable bowel syndrome and healthy controls . Diet was this barrier function. Loss of mucus allows potential patho- assessed by a semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire genic bacteria (pathobionts) or subsequent parts of bacteria and metagenomic profiling of bacteria was used to compare to contribute to trans epithelial (usually paracellular) migra- food groups and bacterial clusters. Metabolomic characteris- tion as elaborated further below. On the other hand, high tics of clusters were also identified. The main findings were fat diets reduce Akkermansia muciniphila which in turn has that similar bacterial responses occurred across the 4 cohorts been reported to be beneficial for gut barrier function . to diets. Inflammatory diets resulted in similar groups of Below the mucus layer rests the primary barrier con- bacteria. Animal derived diets and processed foods consist- sisting of a single epithelial layer of cells. A number of ently led to increased species of Firmicutes, Ruminococcus specialized cells are interspersed (e.g., goblet, Paneth, and the genus Blautia, as well as increased pathways for enterochromafin and M cells). These secrete anti-bacterial endotoxin synthesis. High fiber and diets rich in plant-based and other agents like mucin from goblet cells to prevent trans-epithelial invasion and translocation of harmful stage at this time a weak evidence suggests a healthy diet bacteria derived endotoxins . The cells are important may be beneficial because they have different functions, whether they are in the small bowel or
