Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


weak evidence suggests a healthy diet bacteria derived endotoxins . The cells are important may be beneficial because they have different functions, whether they are in the small bowel or large bowel. In the upper intestine, cells absorb nutrient either through trans-cellular or para-cellular How Does the Western Diet Impact routes. The second function is to protect the host from inva- on Obesity and IBD? sion by organisms and bacterial metabolites. The epithelial layer is joined by the apical junctional complex, consisting Obesity and the Western Diet of tight junctions’ proteins (occludins, claudins and adhe- sion –protein molecule A) and adherence junctions. Flux While the explanation that obesity is a condition dependent across the epithelium is governed by molecular size. Small on excess energy intake with insufficient expenditure, other molecules generally cross trans- epithelium while larger factors are involved in contributing to obesity . The molecules are regulated by IL- 13 and TNF-α . The concept of exposomes attempts to explain the interactions epithelial membrane can become leaky via inflammatory of several environmental variables resulting in obesity . cytokines and result in bacterial and endotoxin transloca- These include genetics with over 300 polymorphs involved tions which compound inflammation and potential disease . As well the role of epigenetics in altering genes via developments. Diets which are anti-inflammatory may be several mechanisms has been recognized. Stress and socio- able to reduce some of these abnormalities. For example a economic status (especially poverty) affects eating behav- recent study of 53 patients with UC showed reduced levels ior and raises affordability as a potential barrier to good of fecal calprotectin ≤ 150 µg/g (69% anti – inflammatory nutrition . In addition as pointed out above obesogens diet vs 37% on regular diet, p = 0.02). This suggested to the which interfere with appetite and hormonal communications authors that the anti –inflammatory diet reduced subclini- of regulation of energy intake contribute . Diet also cal inflammation (but did not prevent clinical relapse) . impacts on the microbiome (which may affect barrier func- The epithelial barrier is affected by high fat diets (increase tions). Additional variables hypothesized include ambient leakiness) and reduced by SCFA through increased fiber temperatures, and even the recent Covid − 19 pandemic consumption. Below the single layer of epithelium are cells (with stress, mental effects and long haul impact on the which produce cytokines in response to various stimuli. intestine with
