Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


pandemic consumption. Below the single layer of epithelium are cells (with stress, mental effects and long haul impact on the which produce cytokines in response to various stimuli. intestine with weight loss and possible diarrhea) . UPFs with multiple additives can contribute to disruption The relationships of the three quantifiable Western diets at anyone of the levels which contribute to host protection. with OB and IBD are reviewed and Table 3 and 4 respec- Vissers et al. reviewed the effects of various food additives: tively show published systematic reviews and meta-analyses. emulsifiers and thickeners (carrageenan and carboxylmethyl- cellulose), food colorings (red dye 40, yellow dye 6 and tita- nium dioxide), artificial sweeteners, salt and phosphates. All Pro‑Inflammatory Diets of these can alter the microbiome and increase intestinal per- meability leading to induction of inflammation and bacterial/ The inflammatory potential of the Western diet has been endotoxin translocations In addition it is also not clear extensively studied. Five meta-analyses in the last 6 years whether UPFs promote poor nutrition by reducing NOVA 1 looked at inflammatory diets and various derivatives of the class foods . Interestingly, and contrary to expectations, inflammatory indices. Namazi et al., evaluated dietary stud- a recent, albeit small (N24) randomized 4 week study com- ies up to 2017 for risks of cardiovascular disease, metabolic pared food containing high and low emulsifiers in patients syndrome, all cause and cardiovascular disease (CVD) and with active ileal CD. At the end of the period no significant mortality. Although obesity was not specifically evaluated, effects were noted between the high or low emulsifier con- these co-morbidities are strongly associated with other suming groups parameters evaluated. In the 17 studies, all cause mortallty, Therefore, the general effect of a Western diet is the pro- cancer and CVD mortalities were modestly increased. In motion of a low grade inflammatory state with increased this analysis. however,metabolic syndrome (MetS) was not exposure of the host to intraluminal bacterial products and significantly affected, but only 5 studies were included for toxins. this part of the analysis. Therefore the sample size for statis- Altered microbiomes and leaky intestinal membranes are tical significance for MetS may not have been enough thought to play roles in both IBD and obesity pathogenesis. Farhangi et al. evaluated 36 observational studies on vari- In CD there is at best moderate evidence for the Mediter- ous Western diet related co-morbidities including systolic, ranean
