Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


here defined by BMI and these years an Odds Ratio or Relative Risk of 1.37 with CI 95%, participants may have under-reported carbohydrate intake. 1.11–179. They also evaluated for T2D (9,216,918 partici- In addition the glycemic index according to the authors does pants) and found a mean increased risk of approximately not correlate with a healthy outcome. 34%. In all these analyses UPFs were variably reported as Another systematic review of 73 publications (cross-over a percentage of daily intake, weight/g of food intake or and RCTs) for glycemic index and glycemic response failed servings/d. Higher UPF intake was associated with higher to find any relationships with diseases . An analysis of energy intakes and may change eating patterns. Similarly 14 randomized controlled studies by Schwinglshakl et al. modest but statistically significant increased risks were found no association of the glycemic index with anthropo- found for hypertension, dyslipidemia and MetS . metric measurements, fasting lipids, fasting blood sugar or A meta-analysis of 14 studies (1 cohort and 13 cross- hemoglobin A1-C, However, this study was a therapeutic sectional) up to 2019 by Askari et al. also found a small assessment and the authors concluded that a food with a low glycemic index is helpful in controlling for obesity with a with IBD and offers a potential explanation to geographic reduction of measured markers of inflammation and glyce- spread and timing of IBD to the latter. mic control . There appears to be a variable clinical effect of diet on There is some evidence for a high glycemic index of foods CD and UC. In consideration of CD, pre-disease is different increasing risk for CVD as alluded to above . A meta- from diets for active CD and even for maintaining remission. analysis to assess risks for cardiovascular disease with total In the case of UC pre-disease, active disease and maintain- sugar, added sugar and fructose intake showed a modest ing remission are less variable. increase . Another meta-analysis of 12 studies found a While early childhood nutrition is probably relevant, pre- modest but statistically significant relationship between MetS diagnosis diet refers to long-term diet, several years before and the glycemic index but not with the glycemic load . the diagnosis is established. Alluded to above an excellent Although, not strictly evaluating the glycemic index to gly- review of this organization of diet for both CD and UC is pro- cemic response
