Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


established. Alluded to above an excellent Although, not strictly evaluating the glycemic index to gly- review of this organization of diet for both CD and UC is pro- cemic response ratio, a meta-analysis of fructose in sugary vided . In general total protein and sugary drinks are con- drinks on increasing lipids in the liver was published. This sistently shown to increase risk for CD. Increased total dairy study reviewed 51 studies and found a significant increase in and increased fiber decrease risk for CD. In UC increased hepatic lipids with increasing sugar intake. The standardized animal protein, red meat, high sugars with low intake of veg- mean difference in intake in those with increased hepatic etables predisposes to UC. It is of interest to note that while lipid was (1.72 95% CI, 1.08 to 2.36, p < 0.001) . UPFs may be the ultimate pre-disease contributor for CD In relationship to markers of the inflammatory response, development, an enteral liquid diet or partial enteral diet (the however, a meta-analysis of 28 RCTs by Milarejdi found no ultimate UPF) is found to induce remission in CD but not effect of the glycemic index on any markers of inflammation UC, in contrast, a recent small study found that oral UPFs . There is a suggestion that addition of NOVA 4 UPFs to during active disease were made symptomatically worse in diets increases the glycemic index when these are compared the highest tertile consumption in UC but not CD to NOVA 1 foods These will not be further discussed here because manage- Of the 3 quantitatively analyzed diets, inflammatory indi- ment of active IBD is beyond the scope of the review. ces and addition of UPFs exert increased risk. Studies with Some pre-disease studies are mentioned here to empha- UPFs may be more consistent and pronounced toward pro- size some of the deficiencies which reduce ability to com- moting obesity. Additional studies could shed more insight pare diets which may link IBD with obesity. on this. Nevertheless, it is clear that all three descriptors of The role of pre illness low vitamin D levels have been diets are inter-related and contribute to obesity (and associ- associated with increased rates of hospitalization and ated co-morbidities). Given the multitude of studies it would increased rates of surgery in CD . A review of be important to relate these 3 quantitative elements so dif- vitamin
