Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


ated co-morbidities). Given the multitude of studies it would increased rates of surgery in CD . A review of be important to relate these 3 quantitative elements so dif- vitamin B12 deficiency in IBD suggested that deficiency ferent outcomes could be better defined by each method. of this vitamin is restricted to patients with extensive ileal- For instance how does the UPF content of food relate to resections and less to extensive small bowel disease . inflammatory indices used to analyze effects? As the study Besides vitamins, iron deficiency is common, as well as sev- of Minogna et al., suggests DII and UPFs could have some eral micronutrients . While such deficiencies may different effects which may impact on outcomes . be present with obesity, they are more often seen in IBD. Patterns of diets that predate disease have been sought. The Western Diet and Inflammatory Bowel Diseases In a large study of more than 67,000 French women, using a validated questionnaire, Jantchou et al. reported that a diet As noted above, IBD has its own causes and there are over high in animal fat (meat and fish but not eggs or dairy) was 200 genes (not including mono-genetic risks for very early associated with a higher risk of IBD . A subsequent onset IBD as well the numbers are increasing) which predis- meta –analysis of 19 studies comprising over 6600 patients pose to either CD or UC explaining perhaps 20–25% of cases with CD, UC and healthy controls “intake of saturated fats, . These genes control the body`s defense against monounsaturated fatty acids, total polyunsaturated fatty acids bacterial invasion (e.g.NOD 2, ATG16L1 autophagy), Oth- (PUFAs), total omega- 3 fatty acids, omega- 6 fatty acids, ers, regulate responses to both innate and adaptive immunity mono- and disaccharides, and meat increased subsequent CD and barrier functions through control of claudins which are risk “. Increased intake of fiber and fruits decreased risk for responsible partly for maintaining intercellular functions. CD. In UC “High intakes of total fats, total PUFAs, omega- 6 Still other like the one for IL23 – Receptor have several vari- fatty acids, and meat were associated with an increased risk. ants which reduce risk for both Crohn`s disease and ulcera- High vegetable intake decreased risk of UC” . tive colitis (e.g., G149R, V326I, R381Q). Since diet as a In terms of relapse, higher intake of animal protein and
