Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


and ulcera- High vegetable intake decreased risk of UC” . tive colitis (e.g., G149R, V326I, R381Q). Since diet as a In terms of relapse, higher intake of animal protein and pathogenic agent has gained momentum, the emphasis in carbohydrates and lower intake of unsaturated fats and fiber this analysis is on pre disease diets which connect obesity increased risks . A Dutch study with 724 IBD patients also suggested that traditional Dutch pattern diet (a Western diet) 14 observational studies evaluated index-based diet intake consisting of meats, sauces, condiments, oils and grain products (5 of these, used DII and variations). Five studies evaluated were associated with flares within a 2 year follow up . an adherence score to a Mediterranean diet. They found an Interestingly consumption of dairy products as outlined inverse risk of IBD progression with this diet. They also may be protective for IBD . Some salient features noted a probable increased risk of disease aggravation in that could account for these observations may relate to diets with high DII . the effects of calcium on the extra cellular (calcium sens- An extensive study on 3 cohorts of populations (Nurses ing receptor) CaSR in the intestines. This multi molecule Health Study 1 and 2 and the Health Professionals Follow- sensor can reduce both the inflammatory and neoplastic up Study) comprising 166,903 women and 41,931 men, had responses . Other potential mechanisms could relate to 328 cases of CD and 428 cases of UC. This study comprises the functions of conjugated linoleic acids which also reduce a large number of participants. There are also enough cases an inflammatory response possibly via activation of peroxi- followed prospectively for almost 5 million person years giv- some proliferator-activated receptors which in turn regulate ing a strong statistical validity. A diet frequency question- lipid and sugar metabolism in cells .Finally in persons naire was repeated at baseline and 8 years later. Based on unable to digest lactose a potential induction of Bifidobac- the EDIP (empirical dietary inflammatory pattern), diet was teria species which have probiotic properties and could also assessed by quartiles In the highest quartile of EDIP intake, participate in this reduction of risk . there was a HR of 1.51 increase in CD (CD, 1.10–2.07), A recent umbrella meta-analysis of individual foods in and significant difference in BMI. Interestingly, if EDIP was IBD supports these findings as well as a modest
