Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


in CD (CD, 1.10–2.07), A recent umbrella meta-analysis of individual foods in and significant difference in BMI. Interestingly, if EDIP was IBD supports these findings as well as a modest protective high at baseline and switched to low EDIP the risk of CD effect of dairy foods . normalized. Similarly, it increased if the base was low and While these studies suggest relationships with both obe- then high after the 8 year follow up. The EDIP had no effect sity and inflammation and likely contain UPFs they are dif- on risk of UC . ficult to compare with diets associated with obesity. UPF Intake and IBD Index Based Diets As discussed, the UPF (NOVA 4 classification) diets have As stated, foods included in the Western diet tend to be pro- been related to increased inflammatory markers. The mul- inflammatory. There have been studies examining inflam- tiple additives for cosmetics and preservation may not be matory indices and IBD. captured in currently developed indices. There are many Two studies found no clear impact. A study using a potential reasons for questioning the role of UPFs in abet- FFQ on 238 IBD, 261 IBS and 195 healthy controls com- ting IBD pared diet quality based on the Dutch healthy diet index A single study comprising over 105,000 participants and adapted dietary inflammatory index. This study found followed for almost two and a half years could not assign that possibly in IBD, abdominal pain alone correlated with increased risk to any pattern of diet or the addition of UPFs. increased inflammatory diet . In a small study of 143 However, there were only 75 who developed IBD and as participants a high DII or (empirical dietary index pattern) well, follow up may have been too short . EDIP, was not associated with increased severity of either Subsequent six publications supported the findings that CD or UC . UPFs posed an increased risk for IBD and particularly CD. Three additional studies did show a relationship between Four were single studies and 2 were meta-analyses. Of the DII and IBD. A case–control study from Iran by Shivappa single studies Narula et al. followed 116,087 participants showed that with UC, a higher DII increased the risk of dis- from 21 countries for over 9.7 years. Of these 467 devel- ease by 55% . A more recent study from China showed oped IBD. Higher intake of UPFs
