Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


affect the (GNI). There was an inverse relationship between the GNI microbiome/metabolome and the protective functions of and growth of UPF national sales . This could then the intestine. It was also noted that different foods can explain a weaker correlation between obesity and national alter internal milieu such that anti and pro-inflammatory wealth as depicted by GDP. That is the availability of cheap cytokines are stimulated. In addition processing of food high caloric UPFs led to development of obesity first and as alters structures of foods. In this paradigm Western diets industrialization followed, IBD rates climbed. This could have been found to promote a low grade inflammation in then explain a weaker correlation between obesity and obesity. This state is hypothesized to contribute to many national wealth as depicted by GDP. Another plausible con- obesity associated diseases. tribution to the delay between obesity followed by IBD is The harmful potential of Western diets have been quan- supported by findings from the GEM project where micro- we assessed individual diets on Obesity and IBD to gener- The second, is how to account for the differential impact ate a hypothesis which could account for epidemiological of UPFs in diets on CD and UC. Several possibilities are observations. entertained. The simplest explanation questions whether We noted previously that OB was less strongly corre- there is a true differential impact of diets on CD and UC, or lated with GDP, a recognized marker of industrialization. could this be due to statistical bias? However, this possibility On the other hand IBD was more closely correlated with is unlikely due to the multiple studies showing the effect and GDP . Assessing studies using these dietary methods as well the impact shown with therapeutic trials. It is empha- we found that while the 3 main assignments to diet all sized that this analysis does not clearly distinguish effects impacted to some extent on both OB and IBD and mutu- of inflammation from UPF containing diets. Although the ally associated co-morbidities, UPFs seemed to be the best effects of UPFs seem to be more on CD pathogenesis. This dietary assessment which connected OB to IBD. will be further elaborated below. Importantly, the independent assessment of the different Another explanation likely relates to the anatomical dif- dietary assignments, the glycemic index, dietary inflamma- ferences in intestinal and colonic functions. In general UPFs tory indices and the NOVA classification
