Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


Another explanation likely relates to the anatomical dif- dietary assignments, the glycemic index, dietary inflamma- ferences in intestinal and colonic functions. In general UPFs tory indices and the NOVA classification of food process- are part of ingested foods and as a result are metabolized or ing found that so far, support findings of this connection absorbed mainly in the small bowel with unclear quantities for both. That is, OB is apparently related mainly with CD, reaching the colon. CD also. However, overwhelming evidence for pathogenic consideration the quantity of ingested additives and for now role of diet in UC and obesity associated co-morbidities there is a relative lack of information about this. In addi- nevertheless, links these two conditions as well. tion, there is a likelihood that different UPFs exert different This differential impact of diet on risks for CD and UC is effects. An example of this possibility is provided by a recent also reported in a recent meta—analysis of therapeutic ben- study examining the 30-year impact of UPF consumption efits in either inducing remission or maintaining remission on all-cause mortality. In an evaluation of two long term GRADE of evidence they also found no significant benefits Survey (NHANES) and Health Professionals Follow-Up Table 5 This review suggests the following knowledge gaps and goals of further research 1. Further studies on specific groups of UPFs affecting different foods is relevant 2. What specific food additives are related to the potential harmful effect of each UPF 3. Can a dose or threshold effect be recognized with a specific UPf or preferably specific food additives? 4. Further studies on the relationships among the three quantitative descriptors would be helpful to precisely apply to therapeutic interventions 5. Performance of an umbrella network meta-analysis of meta-analyses may shed further clarity on the hypothesized link between IBD and OB 6. Further studies on different aspects of diet in both forms of IBD, CD and UC is needed to explain the apparent dichotomous effects between UPF and Inflammatory diets Study (HPFS), UPFs were classified into 9 groupings and Conclusions the highest intake was compared to the lowest intake. A small but statistically significant 4% increased mortality was In conclusion this assessment of the literature suggests that reported in those with the highest UPF intake. Among the the epidemiological links between OB and IBD are best UPFs meat/poultry/seafood ready to eat products stood out exemplified by
