Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


that reported in those with the highest UPF intake. Among the the epidemiological links between OB and IBD are best UPFs meat/poultry/seafood ready to eat products stood out exemplified by the introduction of UPFs into Western diet. most, however, the findings selectively excluded mortality In other words neither an inflammatory diet nor foods from cancers and CVD . with a high glycemic index seem to describe the apparent The apparent differential effect of UPFs on CD and UC, close association of CD with OB. However, all three quanti- could emphasize that these two diseases although, related fiable aspects of Western diets could account for the connec- are different. Similar paradigm is observed with the effects tions between obesity with its associated other co-morbidi- of smoking, where it is protective against UC and detrimen- ties seen in both OB and IBD. The term UPF encompasses tal in CD . Other remaining dichotomous effects may a wide array of food additives which may have individual or relate to the therapeutic effects of probiotics which seem to combined effects on gut defense mechanisms. Much work work more favorably in maintaining remission in UC but is needed still to tease out granularity of different aspects less so in CD [140–143]. In both instances there is no clear which make up UPFs. explanations for the opposite effects. Smoking has not been shown to be causative for either CD or UC . In the case of probiotics there may be too few randomized controlled Key References trials in CD to clearly state an advantage for UC . Furthermore, a meta-analysis of over 550 patients found • Kopp W. How the Western diet and lifestyle drive the that 21% of patients with UC and 30% of patients with CD pandemic of obesity and civilization diseases. Diabetes. achieved remission with the ultimate potential probiotic, Metabolic Syndrome and Obeitys. 2019;12:2221–2236. fecal microbial transplant . oi.o rg/1 0.2 147/D MSO.S 21679 1. Strengths of this review are that despite the lack of granu- larity in defining effects of multiple food additives, there This paper summarizes the global spread of obesity appears to be a consensus that the dietary factor which and many of its accompanying comorbidities. explains the relationship between obesity and Crohn’s dis- This paper names obesity related comorbidities and ease lies within UPFs. There is less consensus with IBD diseases as `diseases of civilization for application of pro-inflammatory
