Current Gastroenterology Reports (2025) 27:29
KEYWORDS: inflammatory, obesity, disease, diet, ibd, risk, food, bowel, index, upfs, review, studies, foods, intake, diets


obesity and Crohn’s dis- This paper names obesity related comorbidities and ease lies within UPFs. There is less consensus with IBD diseases as `diseases of civilization for application of pro-inflammatory diets or diets with high glycemic indices. • Szilagyi A. Interactions Between obesity and Inflamma- Some limitations need to be considered. Firstly the find- tory Bowel Diseases: The pandemic promoting ‘civiliza- ings are not based on a systematic review, rather it is an tion’ diseases Eeuropean Medical Journal- Gastroenterol. examination of retrospective patterns. In order to reduce this 2021;10:78–87.` weakness available meta-analyses were included. Secondly, although, all the characteristics mentioned in this review This paper summarizes pathogenic relationships (addition of obesogens, glycemic index, dietary inflam- between obesity and inflammatory bowel diseases matory indices and the levels of food processing) impact The paper discusess proinflammatory drivers and on Western diets, they assess different aspects. Obesogens also describes some microbial similarities previously including food additives make up part UPFs. There is no described between obesity and inflammatory bowel uniform consensus on how much of these quantifiable vari- diseases ables impact on each food and what quantities are needed to incur harm. Table 5 outlines some knowledge gaps which • Rahmani J., Kord-Varkaneh H., Hekmatdoost A., limits conclusions in this review. Thompson J, Clark C, Salehisahlabadi A, et al. Body mass index and risk of inflammatory bowel disease: A systematic review and dose–response meta-analysis of • Bolte L.A., Vich Vila A., Imhann F., Imhann F, Collij cohort studies of over a million participants. Obes Rev. V, Gacesa R, et al. Long-term dietary patterns are asso- 2019;20(9):1312–1320. oi.o rg/1 0.1 111/o br. ciated with pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory 12875. features of the gut microbiome. Gut. 2021;70(7):1287 - 1298. oi.o rg/1 0.1 136/g utjnl-2 020-3 22670. The paper evaluates the relationship between body mass index and inflammatory bowel disease in a This large study evaluated the impact of food patterns large cohort of people. The paper concludes that on the microbiome The study found processed foods Crohn`s disease has a closer link with obesity than and derived from animals, induced similar and consist- ulcerative colitis. ent groups of bacteria across healthy, irritable bowel syndrome and inflammatory bowel diseases patients. • Ng S.C., Shi H.Y., Hamidi N., Underwood FE, Tang W, Benchimol EI,et al. Worldwide incidence and preva- • Halmos EP, Godny L, Vanderstappen J, Sarbagili-Shabat lence of inflammatory bowel disease in the 21 st cen- C,
