Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


introduced through the laparoscope, but, nonetheless, diagnosis became more aggressive. The first therapeutic breakthrough was probably the introduction of clomiphene citrate in the 1960s for ovulation induction in anovulatory women (5). This was followed by gonadotropin injections. Most recently, the birth of Louise Brown in July of 1978, the world’s first child conceived after in vitro fertilization, altered the approach to therapy once again. Because of its technologic glamour, IVF was highlighted by the media in the last quarter of the 20th century as the Mecca of infertility therapy and the prime example of interfering with the intimacy of reproduction. The biologic fidelity of gametes from the married couple resulting in the wife’s gestation and delivery of their child was broken. Gestational parent, gamete donors, and surrogate mothers became the topic of heated ethical and legal battles. DEMOGRAPHICS In the United States approximately 16.6% of women ages 15-44 are infertile, and 11.9% (7.3 million) women have received fertility services (6). Infertility is not considered a disease by most third party payers, and medical diagnosis and treatment usually requires the couple to provide payment. Because infertility is not a life-threatening disease, choice of therapy often rests with the couple, which is frequently a choice of cost-consideration rather than cost-effectiveness. Couples frequently request therapy which is the least costly even though the efficacy may be low. The most important role of the physician in these cases is education and barring therapy whose risk-benefit ratio is too low for safety. Thus, the evaluation and therapy of infertile couples is often dictated by the amount of funds available. This review, however, discusses the disease in an academic manner without emphasis on practicality. Studies available to evaluate the science rather than the art of medicine will be emphasized in order to provide readers with factual information, but this should not be interpreted as minimizing the practical and sensitive side so important in the clinical practice of medicine. Rather, armed with as much information as possible, each physician may be best able to tailor the evolution and therapy to the needs and resources of the individual. EVALUATION The evaluation of infertility assesses each component of reproductive physiology to identify an abnormality: the cervix, the uterus, the endometrium, the semen, the ovarian function, the fallopian tubes and the peritoneum. Of course, each evaluation begins with a history and physical. Often, historical evidence directs and streamlines subsequent laboratory
