Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


this data is difficult to come by, because of the more impressive effect of maternal age. In order to gain firm figures, men at various ages older than 45, married to women younger than 30 would have to be surveyed for intercourse frequency and conception. The only data available are those from the Mormon genealogy registers (see Figure 2)(14). Figure 2:Data from Mormon Registries: Fertility as a Function of Maternal and Paternal Age (13) Thus, men older than 55 married to women older than 35 may have a synergistic age effect on their fertility, but one which is difficult to quantify. In vitro fertilization outcomes echo earlier trends between female age and pregnancy. While increasing female age leads to a decrease in live birth when using autologous oocytes, donor-oocyte-IVF cycle outcomes appear unaffected by increasing recipient age (Figure 3)(15). Figure 3 Live birth rates among IVF cycles performed in the United States in 2013 (15). CERVICAL FACTOR The nulliparous cervix is approximately 4 cm in length. Its columnar epithelium is pierced by the ducts of mucous secreting glands which spew forth their contents as a protective barrier preventing bacteria from entering the upper reproductive tract and as a welcome channel to lead sperm into the upper tract. Cervical mucus is comprised of hyaluronic acid micelles which are affected by the hormonal milieu exposed to the glands. Late in the follicular phase, as estrogen rises, the micelles align in a parallel arrangement forming channels to guide the sperm. Under the microscope this can be seen as the classic "fern" pattern of dried cervical mucus (Figure 4). The pH is alkaline and nourishing to the sperm. Indeed, sperm can live in normal cervical mucus for as long as 4 days. The abundant mucus frequent oozes from the cervical os into the vagina to lure the sperm from the ejaculate, while protecting them from the acidity of the vagina. At mid-cycle, just prior to and after ovulation the rising progesterone increases the salt content of the mucus, breaking the micelle channels and thickening the consistency of the mucus. The "fern" pattern is no longer seen; the mucus thickens and becomes hostile to sperm and bacteria alike. Figure 3 The classic fern pattern of dried cervical mucous. History Women with a history of cervical infections, surgery or cryotherapy may have damage to the cervical glands and lack mucus. This may result in the inability
