Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


dried cervical mucous. History Women with a history of cervical infections, surgery or cryotherapy may have damage to the cervical glands and lack mucus. This may result in the inability of the sperm to survive the harsh vaginal acidity and not make the assent to the uterus. However, a considerable amount of cervix must be removed or damaged for a true "cervical" factor to cause infertility. Infections rarely result in infertility. Although gonorrhea and chlamydia have often been accused, it is difficult to prove that either of these actually destroys cervical glands and are more likely to result in tubal factor infertility (16). Acute infection may alter cervical pH, killing sperm, although this is not well documented. Cervical conization which removes the cervical glands is the most likely cause of cervical factor infertility. Cryotherapy and laser vaporization may destroy the lower canal, but glands above the point of metaplasia usually provide enough mucus to retain fertility (17). Physical Examination The normal squamocolumar junction with clear cervical mucus almost always rules out a cervical factor. When the cervix is scarred with a narrow external os and almost flush with the vagina, the cervical glands are frequently absent. Diagnosis This diagnosis of cervical factor is based heavily of the history of cervical damage by surgery or infection. Nonetheless, the classic diagnosis of cervical factor infertility has been the post coital test (aka Sims Hauser test). The postcoital test was proposed to determine the adequacy of sperm and the receptivity of cervical mucus, however it has been the subject of debate over the last 10 years. In a randomized 24 month study female patients with abnormal post-coital tests were compared to those with normal tests, and importantly there was no difference in pregnancy rates between the two groups (18). In a literature review assessing use of the post coital test, the sensitivity of the test ranged from 0.09 to 0.71, specificity from 0.62 to 1.00, predictive value of abnormal from 0.56 to 1.00, and predictive value of normal from 0.25 to 0.75 (19). In light of problems of poor validity, lack of standard methodology, lack of a uniform definition of normal, and unknown reproducibility, the postcoital test in longer considered of significant value in infertility assessments. Without a history of cervical damage by infection or surgery, the diagnosis of cervical factor is largely circumstantial. Treatment A true cervical factor is best treated with
