Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


in infertility assessments. Without a history of cervical damage by infection or surgery, the diagnosis of cervical factor is largely circumstantial. Treatment A true cervical factor is best treated with intrauterine insemination as described below. Briefly, washed sperm is injected into the uterus at the time of ovulation. Because the sperm survive a limited time, it is probably best to time ovulation with urinary LH to narrow the insemination-ovulation interval. In addition, prior cervical surgery may predispose to an incompetent cervix during pregnancy (20). Thus, the patient should be closely monitored for painless dilation of the cervix during pregnancy and evaluated for cervical cerclage. ENDOMETRIAL FACTOR A hostile endometrial environment will impede embryonic implantation as shown by the placement of an intrauterine device into the endometrial cavity for contraception. This hostile effect is postulated to be reproduced by endometrial polyps and submucous fibroids. In addition, hormonal, immune and biochemical factors have been postulated to result in a hostile endometrial environment. Poor progesterone effect resulting in delayed maturation of the endometrial lining, commonly referred to as the luteal phase defect, has been considered as hostile to implantation. Indeed, luteal phase defect has been demonstrated in a case of trisomy 16, suggesting that the defect is a secondary phenomenon of an primary defect, namely, genetic abnormality of an oocytes and its follicular apparatus resulting in abnormally low hormonal stimulation and finally, poor endometrial maturation (21). Teleologically, this would prevent pregnancy with abnormal embryos. Theoretically, this mechanism may go astray during genetically normal cycles and result in failed implantation, but has never been proved to be a cause of infertility, per se. Other factors, which have been implicated in the development of a hostile environment for implantation, are autoimmune factors such as lupus anticoagulant and Integrin IIIβ (22). It has been shown that antiphospholipid antibodies are not a factor in implantation, but the concentrations of Integrin III β are yet to be determined (23). History Patients with endometrial polyps and submucous fibroids may have premenstrual spotting or heavy menstrual bleeding. A luteal phase defect is not detected in any medical history. Physical Examination Endometrial factors cannot be diagnosed by physical examination. Diagnosis Endometrial polyps and submucous fibroids are detected by either hysterosalpingography, a saline sonohysterogram, or hysteroscopy (Figure 5). A dilation and curettage (D&C) may be performed and histology of the curettings will confirm the diagnosis. Submucous fibroids may be felt as an
