Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


saline sonohysterogram, or hysteroscopy (Figure 5). A dilation and curettage (D&C) may be performed and histology of the curettings will confirm the diagnosis. Submucous fibroids may be felt as an irregularity while curetting the endometrial cavity. Figure 5 :Hysteroscopic view of an endometrial polyp. Abnormal autoimmune factors do not cause infertility and need not be diagnosed. Integrin IIIβ is still a research tool and diagnosis of an abnormal concentration should be left to research protocols. The luteal phase defect is not a documented cause of infertility (24-26). The high prevalence of out-of-phase endometrial biopsies in fertile women makes histological dating of the endometrium of no use in the routine evaluation of infertility (26). Because its role in spontaneous abortion is not known, some physicians prefer to evaluate the endometrium in infertile patients. The diagnosis is made by performing an endometrial biopsy in the luteal phase. A histological dating lagging more than 2 days behind the actual postovulatory date diagnoses the defect. Treatment Endometrial polyps may be removed by operative hysteroscopy or uterine curettage. Submucous fibroids may be removed through hysteroscopic surgery. Depending upon the depth of myometrial invasion, laparoscopy or laparotomy may be necessary. Pritts et al performed a meta analysis of women undergoing hysteroscopic myomectomy and found a modest improvement in pregnancy outcome (relative risk of 1.72 with a confidence interval of 1.13-2.58)(27). As mentioned, other causes of endometrial hostility have not been proven to be related to infertility and, thus, treatment is not warranted. UTERINE FACTOR In addition to the endometrium and cervix, the shape and competency of the uterine fundus must be considered. Anomalies of mullerian fusion and fibroids have been suggested to result in the inability of implantation or growth of the pregnancy. It is difficult to postulate how abnormalities of the uterus can cause infertility except through abnormal blood flow leading to poor implantation and a subsequent abnormality involving placentation. Indeed, evidence that does exist relates infertility to large fibroids suggesting tubal factor infertility. Mullerian fusion abnormalities resulting in a uterine septum or bicornuate uterus are largely associated with recurrent miscarriage rather than the ability to conceive. History Historical clues of an abnormal uterus are rare. Occasionally, patients with incomplete mullerian fusion may have dysmenorrhea, but the symptom itself is so nonspecific, that the physician is not likely to alter either diagnosis or therapeutic course. Physical Examination A bimanual pelvic examination will reveal large fibroids.
