Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


but the symptom itself is so nonspecific, that the physician is not likely to alter either diagnosis or therapeutic course. Physical Examination A bimanual pelvic examination will reveal large fibroids. The bicornuate uterus is typically unable to be palpated. A compete uterus didelphys will be revealed by a vaginal and cervical examination. Diagnosis Uterine fibroids may be diagnosed by ultrasound (Figure 6). Their imposition on the endometrial cavity may be illustrated by hysterosalpingogram and confirmed by hysteroscopy. Ultrasound is less valuable in diagnosing mullerian anomalies, but hysterosalpingogram will identify the abnormal uterus (Figures 7,8,9) . MRI is often helpful in identifying both fibroids and the type of mullerian anomaly found on hysterosalpingogram ( Figure 10 ). Figure 6: Transverse sonographic image of the uterus demonstrating overall enlargement and multiple leiomyomata. Figure 7 Hysterosalpingogram of a normal uterus. Note the normal appearing intrauterine cavity with bilateral tubal spillage of contrast Figure 8 Hysterosalpingogram of a T-shaped uterus secondary to in utero DES exposure. Figure 9 Hysterosalpingogram of a uterine anomaly. With HSG, a septum versus a bicornuate uterus cannot be distinguished.. Figure 10 Transverse MRI image demonstrating multiple leiomyomata.. The septate uterus can be differentiated from the bicornuate uterus by laparoscopy and MRI. Both laparoscopy and hysteroscopy will identify fibroids and their location in the uterus and pelvis. If fibroids interfere with tubal pick-up of oocytes, mechanical infertility will result. Similarly, fibroids impinging on the endometrial cavity may interfere with implantation and placentation. Treatment Uterine fibroids may be treated by myomectomy. Depending on the location of the fibroid, hysteroscopic or laparoscopic removal may be possible. Otherwise laparotomy is necessary. Treatment of the fibroid with a GnRH agonist will shrink the fibroid, but as soon as the agonist is discontinued and estrogen activity resumes, the fibroid will return to at least its original size (28). Myomectomy is indicated when the myomas result in bleeding severe enough to cause anemia, when pressure is placed on the on the bladder to cause urinary tract infections, or when pressure on the bowel results in constipation. It is less clear whether myomectomy improves fertility and, in fact, may even result in pelvic adhesions and lead to tubal factor infertility (29). Myomas which impinge or are present within the endometrial cavity may likely cause spontaneous abortion, but evidence proving this causation is difficult to find. Even harder to prove is the efficacy of myomectomy resulting in an
