Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


marked dilation of the tubes and the pooling of contrast.. Treatment In vitro fertilization results in the highest chances of pregnancy for the couple whose infertility is the result of pelvic adhesions or blocked Fallopian tubes. Surgical correction may increase the chances of fertility, however, unless the adhesions are filmy and their extent is limited, surgical lysis incurs a high likelihood of adhesion recurrence. ENDOMETRIOSIS Endometriosis is the abnormal development of endometrial glands and stroma outside of the uterus. It is associated with dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, and infertility. The American Society of Reproductive Medicine (ASRM) developed a revised staging scheme in order to standardize communication between physicians regarding their patients, between investigators for research protocols and to follow effects of therapy (31). The mechanism of action whereby endometriosis causes infertility is complex. Severe endometriosis with adhesions and adherent pelvic organs results in mechanical infertility. It is difficult to assign a mechanism to minimal and moderate endometriosis. Increased peritoneal fluid, increase peritoneal prostaglandin concentration, and interference with normal ovarian folliculogenesis have all been postulated (32). However, no direct evidence exists between mild and minimal endometriosis and resultant infertility (33). Indeed, some have postulated endometriosis is a result rather than a cause of infertility. History Patients with endometriosis experience a spectrum of symptoms ranging from incapacitating dysmenorrhea and severe dyspareunia to none at all. Although 30% of infertile patients have endometriosis (34), it is unknown how many patients who have endometriosis are infertile. Classically, patients have dysmenorrhea which begins during the menses and over the years extends to the prior luteal phase. Cyclical hemoptysis and hematochezia may occur in patients with endometriosis implants in the lung; however, very few of patients with endometriosis have these remote implants. Physical Examination Endometriosis may be occasionally palpated on pelvic exam if there are implants on the uterosacral ligaments or the posterior surface of the uterus; however, physical examination is usually not helpful in the diagnosis of endometriosis. Diagnosis Endometriosis is diagnosed by visual inspection at the time of laparoscopy or laparotomy or if endometriomas are visualized on pelvic ultrasound. Endometrial implants over the pelvic organs may be biopsied for histological confirmation. Endometrial glands and stroma are seen microscopically. The American Society of Reproductive Medicine recommends using a standard staging system to document the severity of each patient’s disease. The system incorporates superficial and deep lesions, adhesions, and the location and size of each lesion. Standardized staging
