Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


a standard staging system to document the severity of each patient’s disease. The system incorporates superficial and deep lesions, adhesions, and the location and size of each lesion. Standardized staging allows communication between physicians and evaluation of treatment efficacy. Treatment Endometriosis causing pain may be treated with surgical or medical therapy. Surgical extirpation of lesions and adhesions is successful in alleviating pain for endometriosis but is less effective in increasing fertility caused by endometriosis (35). Preventing menstruation with the use of continuous oral contraceptive or continuous progestin therapy may also relieve pain. Medical menopause induced by GNRH analogues has also been effective in reducing the implants of endometriosis. However, once normal cycles and hormones resume, the implants return. Medical therapy does not have much effect on the adhesions associated with endometriosis (36,37). Similarly, endometriomas of the ovary are decreased in size by medical therapy but are rarely completely treated. In vitro fertilization is more effective than either surgery or medicine in increasing fertility caused by endometriosis (32). OVULATORY FUNCTION Pregnancy is direct evidence of ovulation. Patients who do not ovulate cannot conceive without assisted reproductive technology. Ovulatory function requires the integration of many normally functioning systems. Normal thyroid function, normal insulin action, normal adrenal function and perhaps normal cerebral function are all required for ovulation. When these systems are disrupted, follicular function is altered and ovulation becomes disordered. This results in a series of endocrine events, which leads to elevated estrone production, elevated androgen production and altered insulin action. These events, in turn, prevent ovulation. This cycle of disordered events has become known as polycystic ovarian syndrome. This syndrome is discussed in detail in Chapter 6. History Normal, regular menstrual cycles usually reflect ovulatory cycles. Indeed, 95% of regular menstrual cycles are ovulatory (38). If cycles are irregular, the patient is most likely not ovulating, obviously a cause of infertility. Patients who do not ovulate and have polycystic ovarian disease may also have other associated findings of the disorder including insulin resistance, androgen excess, acanthosis nigricans and obesity. Physical Examination Anovulation alone is not associated with any physical findings. Patients will have abundant, thin cervical mucus most of the time. This is the result of continuous, unopposed estrogen. In those whose have elevated androgens, hirsutism may be present. Acanthosis nigricans may also be found at the neckline, in the axilla, and underneath the breasts. Diagnosis Anovulation is diagnosed by a
