Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


whose have elevated androgens, hirsutism may be present. Acanthosis nigricans may also be found at the neckline, in the axilla, and underneath the breasts. Diagnosis Anovulation is diagnosed by a serum progesterone measurement less than 4 ng/ml drawn at least 4 days prior to a menstrual bleed. Proliferative endometrium on an endometrial biopsy performed during the week prior to a menstrual cycle is also diagnostic of anovulation. Finally, a basal body temperature chart revealing no biphasic increase in temperature is diagnostic of anovulation in 80% of cases; 20% of women with a monophasic basal body temperature will actually ovulate (39,40). Treatment Ovulation may be stimulated by administering clomiphene citrate, letrozole, or gonadotropins. Clomiphene citrate is a serum estrogen receptor modulator, which increases pituitary secretion of LH and FSH. When given to anovulatory women, the gonadotropins stimulate follicular development. The follicle continues to develop normally and feeds back to signal the pituitary that the oocyte is mature and an LH surge is needed. The so-called "ovarian clock" is restored and ovulation may be timed by monitoring urinary LH concentrations. Clomiphene successfully induces ovulation in 85% of women, although pregnancy rates are lower than 65% (41,42). When clomiphene is unsuccessful, gonadotropins may directly stimulate the ovarian follicle to develop and chorionic gonadotropin may be administered to simulate the LH surge and result in ovulation. Patients with polycystic ovarian disease have often been treated with insulin sensitizing agents, particularly metformin (43,44). Most recently however, a multicenter randomized placebo-controlled trial failed to show any superiority of metformin over clomid, and combining clomid with metformin was no better than clomid alone (45) Metformin use in PCOS should be restricted to women with glucose intolerance and the routine use of this drug in ovulation induction is not recommended (46,47). Letrozole, an aromatase inhibitor, has also been used to induce ovulation in anovulatory women. The medication decreases peripheral aromatization of testosterone to estrogen leading to an increase in FSH secretion from the pituitary gland and resultant follicular maturation (48). The Reproductive Medicine Network performed a double-blind, multi-center study comparing pregnancy outcomes in women with PCOS using either clomiphene citrate or letrozole. Patients using letrozole had a higher cumulative live birth rate than those who used clomiphene citrate (27.5% vs. 19.1%, P=0.007) and a lower multiple pregnancy rate (P=0.03) (49). Gonadotropins, FSH or a combination of FSH and LH can also be used to induce ovulation in anovulatory
