Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


(27.5% vs. 19.1%, P=0.007) and a lower multiple pregnancy rate (P=0.03) (49). Gonadotropins, FSH or a combination of FSH and LH can also be used to induce ovulation in anovulatory women. These medications are generally injected subcutaneously and lead to follicular growth. Recruitment of more than one dominant follicle is not uncommon during a gonadotropin stimulation, so patients are followed closely with ultrasound monitoring and serum estradiol levels. The treatment modality is associated with an increased risk of high-order-multiple pregnancy when compared to natural conception, clomiphene citrate, and letrozole. CHRONIC DISEASE : History A thorough menstrual history should be done with all infertile patients to detect chronic diseases such as severe anemia, autoimmune diseases, liver disease and renal disease. Debilitating disease and chronic malnutrition may also result in infertility (50). Chronic disease most likely interferes with ovulation by central mechanisms. Treatment of the disease rarely restores ovulation because such treatment is usually palliative. Physical Examination The exam findings may be subtle, and include clubbing of nailbeds, poor skin turgor, subcutaneous adiposity, conjunctival pallor, thinning of hair, jaundice, cushingoid features, recent weight loss, poor skin turgor, delayed capillary refill, gum bleeds, and cheilosis, Fatigue, exercise intolerance, dyspnea on exertion, peripheral edema, cardiac murmurs are consistent with underlying cardiac disease. Splenomegaly, dilated abdominal wall collateral vasculature, and ascites or signs of anemia may represent longstanding gastrointestinal disease. Pulmonary disease is manifested by a chronic cough, diminished breath sounds, wheezing, dyspnea or simply fatigue. Diagnosis In most instances, the diagnosis will already be established. Physical exam findings may indicate the patient’s overall health, and nonspecific studies may be helpful such as: CBC with peripheral smear, urine dipstick for proteinuria, hematuria, pyuria and microscopic evaluation (epithelial cells, WBC casts, etc.), liver functions, and serum chemistries to include electrolytes, creatinine, BUN, magnesium, phosphate, uric acid, and protein. A sedimentation rate is a nonspecific test of inflammation, and cardiac status may be initially assessed with an ECG, CXR, echocardiography, and stress test. Clearly, the diagnostic tests must be tailored to the individual. Treatment Treatment of infertility associated with chronic disease requires addressing the underlying health problem and optimizing the patient’s present state of health. This usually requires a multi-specialty effort, specific to the patient’s health needs. Special consideration should be taken to assess if a relative or absolute contraindication to pregnancy exists, as the pregnancy may well exacerbate an already tenuous medical condition. Maternal surrogacy is
