Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


Special consideration should be taken to assess if a relative or absolute contraindication to pregnancy exists, as the pregnancy may well exacerbate an already tenuous medical condition. Maternal surrogacy is an option in patients who are unable to tolerate the physical stresses of pregnancy, such as patients with severe hypertension, significant structural cardiac anomalies, advanced multiple sclerosis, to name a few. If premature ovarian failure has occurred, either secondary to chronic disease, or to treatments such as chemotherapy or radiotherapy, donated oocytes are an option. MALE FACTOR Extensive discussion of male factor infertility is within Section: Endocrinology of the Male edited by Robert MacLachlan,M.D (www.endotext.org). A recent study performed by the Reproductive Medicine Network correlated semen parameters to fertility. The "new norms" by which fertility can now be defined are: a sperm density greater than 15 million/ml, motility greater than 32%, and a strict morphology greater than 4% (51). Abnormal semen parameters have a host of causes resulting from an absent vas deferens secondary to cystic fibrosis heterozygosity to a varicocele. Nonetheless, when the semen parameters are low, the number of competent sperm available to fertilize an oocyte is decreased and the monthly fecundity is lowered. It is more difficult to explain why male factor infertility occurs in the presence of normal semen parameters. Some have suggested that abnormal capacitation, decreased motility, abnormal morphology, chemical composition, or antibody presence compromise fertilization. These factors remain unproved. History Male factor infertility usually presents when the gynecologist orders a semen analysis in the initial infertility evaluation. Rarely does it present as symptoms in the male. The male partner may have a history of undescended testicles or testicular pain due to a varicocele, but this is usually elicited after the semen analysis is abnormal. Physical Examination Males with a varicocele will often have a palpable vessel in the scrotum. Otherwise no physical findings are abnormal in most infertile males. Diagnosis The diagnosis of male factor infertility begins with a semen analysis. Abnormal parameters include: sperm concentration of less than 15 x 10(6) per milliliter, less than 32% of sperm motility, with less than 4% with normal morphologic features (51). Tests such as the sperm penetration assay, antisperm antibodies, free oxygen radicals have been implicated as resulting in infertility, but the documentation is unconfirmed. Sonographic evaluation of the scrotum will confirm the presence of a varicocele. Treatment If the infertility is due to a mechanical
