Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


as resulting in infertility, but the documentation is unconfirmed. Sonographic evaluation of the scrotum will confirm the presence of a varicocele. Treatment If the infertility is due to a mechanical issue, such as retrograde ejaculation, either pharamacologic or surgical correction of the bladder neck is feasible. In patients with neurological damage from spinal cord or pelvic trauma, multiple sclerosis, or retroperitoneal surgery, rectal electroejaculation or surgical sperm recovery may be utilized. If the male partner is azoospermic due to hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, the patient is treated with gonadotropin therapy. Obstructive azoospermia may be corrected surgically or sperm recovery techniques such as TESE (testicular sperm extraction)(Figure 12) or MESA (microsurgical epididymal sperm aspiration)(Figure13) may be used. Since the wide acceptance of ICSI (intracytoplasmic sperm injection)(Figure14), an oocyte is mechanically fertilized with a single sperm, a method which ameliorates all but the most severe male factor infertility. Clomiphene citrate is no better than placebo for increasing a low sperm count. Recently, sperm motility has been treated with carnitine supplements, but randomized trails are pending. (For a full discussion on male factor infertility, see Endocrinology of the Male edited by Robert McLachlan, M.D.at www.endotext.org ). Figure 12: Testicular sperm extraction (TESE) Figure 13 Microsurgical epididymal sperm aspiration (MESA) Figure 14 Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) UNEXPLAINED INFERTILITY Approximately 15% of patients with infertility have an unidentifiable cause. Thus, unexplained infertility is a failure of both the couple to conceive and the physician to explain why. Perhaps even more psychologically difficult to accept than sterility, unexplained infertility poses impressive stress to the couple. Despite doing all they can correctly, the couple is unable to conceive and has no answer to their problem even after enduring expensive, painful testing. Their only recourse is empiric therapy. History Couples with unexplained infertility have routine intercourse, have regular menstrual cycles and normal infertility testing results. Physical Examination Inherent to the diagnosis, physical examination reveals no abnormalities. Diagnosis The diagnosis of unexplained infertility is made in couples who have intercourse regularly or well-timed intercourse and fail to conceive despite regular ovulatory cycles, a normal semen analysis, normal laparoscopy, and normal hysterosalpingography. Treatment Couples with unexplained infertility may conceive without therapy but it may take from 3 to 7 years (52). To decrease the waiting time, empiric therapy is instituted. Empiric therapy usually begins with ovulation induction with oral agents or gonadotropins combined with intrauterine insemination. This combined therapy increases the cyclic
