Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


decrease the waiting time, empiric therapy is instituted. Empiric therapy usually begins with ovulation induction with oral agents or gonadotropins combined with intrauterine insemination. This combined therapy increases the cyclic fecundity over either alone in couples with unexplained infertility (53, 54). After three or four unsuccessful cycles or alternatively, in vitro fertilization may be offered. ASSISTED REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY The birth of Louise Brown in 1978, the world’s first "test tube baby", revolutionized therapy for infertile patients. No longer were women without fallopian tubes unable to conceive and gestate. For the first time, medicine was able to view the first few human embryonic divisions and reproductive medical scientists learned better how to induce ovulation and handle gametes. Numerous "spin-off" technologies arose in the subsequent two decades: controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH-IUI), intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) and oocyte donation allowed pregnancy in couples without gametes. This section briefly describes the reproductive technologies available to infertile patients and referred to in treatment sections above in the chronological order of their introduction into the therapeutic armamentarium. In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) was first successfully performed by Patrick Steptoe, MD and Robert Edwards, PhD in a woman with tubal factor infertility. The woman timed her ovulation and underwent laparotomy for oocyte retrieval. In the ensuing years, spontaneous cycles were replaced by first clomiphene citrate ovulation induction and then stimulation with gonadotropins. Ovulation stimulation allowed the retrieval of more than one mature oocyte, thus increasing the statistical chance of embryonic implantation during one cycle. The early pregnancy rates were approximately 8% per cycle and cancellation prior to oocyte retrieval was high. The introduction of GnRH analog allowed down regulation prior to ovarian stimulation and thwarted the numbers of cycles cancelled due to spontaneous premature LH surges. GnRH analog therapy was most likely the reason that IVF pregnancy rates jumped to about 15% per cycle in the late 1980s. By the time IVF in the United States was introduced by the Jones in 1983, oocytes retrieval was primarily by laparoscopy. In 1983, Gleicher et al reported the first transvaginal ultrasound-directed oocyte aspiration, and currently, most aspirations are performed in this manner (55). Indications Initially, IVF was indicated in patients with tubal factor infertility. The relatively high success rates have allowed extension to couples with endometriosis, drug-resistant polycystic ovarian disease, and unexplained infertility. Additionally, IVF can be used with donor oocytes to treat women with age-related
