Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


high success rates have allowed extension to couples with endometriosis, drug-resistant polycystic ovarian disease, and unexplained infertility. Additionally, IVF can be used with donor oocytes to treat women with age-related ovarian dysfunction, ovarian failure or surgically removed ovaries. Combined with ICSI (see below) IVF can also be used to treat couples with sperm disorders and immunologic infertility. Procedure : IVF begins with ovulation induction. Although it may be performed in natural cycles, removal of the oocytes requires intensive hormonal monitoring and the availably of the medical team too often to be practical. In addition, pregnancy rates are lower with natural cycle IVF. A variety of ovulation induction regimens are available. Many programs in the United States administer ovarian down regulation with a GnRH agonist in the luteal phase prior to the cycle of stimulation. Oral contraceptives are often added prior to down-regulation. After spontaneous ovarian activity is suppressed, folliculogenesis is stimulated with gonadotropins. The regimen used is particular to each program, but those that have been tested in clinical trials all seem to result in similar pregnancy and delivery rates. Choices are made based on cost, availability, route of administration, and familiarity of the physician with the regimen. GnRH antagonists are also used to thwart spontaneous LH surges during ovulation induction. Thus far, they have not proven superior to the GnRH agonists in pregnancy outcome and are more expensive on a mg per mg basis (56) but offer the advantage of fewer total injections to the patient. Another proposed advantage of GnRH antagonist cycles is a decreased risk of moderate and severe Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS) when combining this protocol with a GnRH-agonist induction of final oocyte maturation (57-59). During ovulation induction, the ovaries are monitored for follicular growth by frequent transvaginal ultrasound examinations and serum estradiol concentrations. When clinical parameters suggest the presence of mature oocytes, human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is administered to mimic the LH surge and allow further progression of the oocytes through meiosis. Some IVF programs now use a GnRH agonist to trigger ovulation, as it appears that the incidence of moderate and severe ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) is reduced in high-risk patients when an agonist is used. Approximately 35 hours later, the patient undergoes a follicular aspiration. In the United States, most aspirations are performed transvaginally with ultrasound direction. Conscious sedation is typically used. Regional analgesia is not usually employed because the concentration of the
