Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


follicular aspiration. In the United States, most aspirations are performed transvaginally with ultrasound direction. Conscious sedation is typically used. Regional analgesia is not usually employed because the concentration of the local anesthesia in the follicular fluid has been shown to decrease the pH and affect the fertilization of the oocyte (60). Concomitant identification of the oocyte by nearby laboratory technicians informs the physician to proceed with aspiration of each sequential follicle (Figures 15,16). Figure 15: Human oocyte immediately following retrieval. Figure 16 Human oocyte after the surrounding cumulus cells have been removed. Between 4 and 6 hours after aspiration, the oocytes are mixed with 15,000-30,000 motile, previously prepared sperm. Human fertilization occurs in the next 18 hours and the first two cell divisions usually occur in the subsequent 24 hours (61). Embryos are then transferred into the uterine cavity typically three or five days later. The American Society of Reproductive Medicine (ASRM) recommends determining the number of embryos to be transferred by patient criteria, with favorable prognosis patients generally receiving no more than 1-2 embryos, and poor prognosis patients of advanced maternal age receiving no more than 5 embryos (ASRM Practice Committee Report: Guidelines on the Number of Embryos to Transfer, revised September, 2012). These guidelines were proposed to decrease the incidence of multiple pregnancies, yet still facilitate a favorable pregnancy rate. The embryos are transferred through the vagina into the uterus. Approximately 2 weeks later a pregnancy test is performed. Because aspiration removes granulosa cells which would otherwise produce the progesterone necessary for endometrial development, many programs support the luteal phase with exogenous progesterone supplementation. This has never been shown to be necessary or effective, but is of low risk (62). If given, supplementation is continued for approximately 4 weeks after the positive pregnancy test. Contraindications : IVF is contraindicated in women in whom pregnancy is contraindicated. Outcome: Federal law requires that the outcome of all IVF cycles be reported to the national database kept by the CDC and ASRM/SART ( www.cdc.gov/nccdphp/drh/art99/index99.htmwebsite and www.sart.org). For the 87,089 IVF cycles performed nationally in 2013, there was a 40.1% live birth rate per initiated cycle for women younger than 35 years, 31.4% for women between ages 35 and 37, 21.2% for women between 38 and 40, and 11.2% for women over 40 years (SART www.sart.org). Gamete Intrafallopian Transfer (GIFT) Gamete Intrafallopian Transfer (GIFT) is a procedure developed in 1983 by Dr.
