Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


women between 38 and 40, and 11.2% for women over 40 years (SART www.sart.org). Gamete Intrafallopian Transfer (GIFT) Gamete Intrafallopian Transfer (GIFT) is a procedure developed in 1983 by Dr. Ricardo Asch in San Antonio (63). The procedure begins in a therapeutic manner similar to IVF, however, when the oocytes are aspirated, they are mixed with sperm and immediately replaced in the patient"s fallopian tubes. GIFT requires less laboratory services and expertise than does IVF, but does require the patient to incur the risks of general anesthesia and laparoscopy. With increasing training and availability of IVF laboratory personnel, GIFT is rarely utilized. Indications: GIFT requires at least one normal, patent fallopian tube. Patients with unexplained infertility are those who benefit most by this procedure. Additionally, because embryos are not formed in the laboratory, some religious groups may find GIFT more acceptable than IVF. Procedure : GIFT begins with ovulation induction in a manner similar as described above for IVF (see IVF). When the patient is ready for oocyte aspiration, the aspiration may be performed either transvaginally with ultrasound guidance, or transabdominally under laparoscopic guidance. The oocytes are immediately combined with previously prepared sperm and allowed to incubate for 10 minutes to allow sperm binding to the zona pellucida. Approximately 25,000 motile sperm and two oocytes are placed in each Fallopian tube through a catheter placed in the tube under laparoscopic vision. Luteal support with exogenous progesterone may be given. Two weeks after aspiration a pregnancy test is performed. Contraindications : Patients with abnormal Fallopian tubes are not eligible for GIFT treatment. Any contraindication to pregnancy is a contraindication to GIFT. Outcome : Federal law requires that the outcome of all GIFT cycles be reported to the national database kept by the CDC and ASRM/SART ( www.cdc.gov/nccdphp/drh/art99/index99.htmwebsite ). Overall, GIFT was performed with less than 1% of the aspirations in the United States in 2011, and because of the small number of cases, clinic outcome data specific for GIFT is unavailable. In general, the outcome of GIFT is thought to be comparable to that of ovulation induction with gonadotropins and intrauterine insemination. Controlled Ovarian Hyperstimulation and Intrauterine Insemination (COH-IUI) Controlled Ovarian Hyperstimulation and Intrauterine Insemination (COH-IUI) was first introduced in 1983 by Dodson et al. as a direct spin-off of GIFT (64). These clinical investigators reasoned that if the cyclic fecundity rate may be increase by placing processed sperm into the
