Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


by Dodson et al. as a direct spin-off of GIFT (64). These clinical investigators reasoned that if the cyclic fecundity rate may be increase by placing processed sperm into the normal fallopian tube with 4 oocytes, perhaps the physical placement can be replaced by the patient’s natural physiology. Their first series of 85 patients were stimulated with gonadotropins to develop 4 mature follicles and the normal fallopian tubes were entrusted with oocyte pick-up. After administering hCG, processed sperm were delivered into the intrauterine cavity and allowed to be propelled naturally to the site of the oocyte. Previous studies revealed that this transport occurred within two minutes. This therapy was applied to patients with unexplained infertility so rapidly that it resulted in a demand on the supply of urinary gonadotropins so large that a backlog of drugs in the United States occurred. Indications : Unexplained infertility was the initial indication for COH-IUI. This was later extended to include some patients with pelvic adhesions (but patent tubes) and also patients with male factor infertility. Procedure : Beginning early in the menstrual cycle, gonadotropins are administered daily to patients. After approximately 5 days of therapy, ultrasound folliculograms and serum estradiol measurements are performed every 1 to 2 days to determine the dose and frequency of further gonadotropin administration. When three to four mature follicles are detected, human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is administered to trigger ovulation. Between 24 and 48 hours after hCG administration, an intrauterine insemination (IUI) is performed. The sperm is prepared for IUI in a manner similar to that first described for IVF. After liquification, the ejaculate is diluted with a buffered media and centrifuged. The sperm is thus separated from the seminal plasma when the supernatant is discarded and the sperm-rich pellet is re-suspended in media. Processing thereafter varies with the laboratory and sperm characteristics. The sperm suspension may be layered in a sephadex column (Percoll), recentrifuged with media, or allowed to "swim-up" into an overlying layer of media. These procedures are intended to remove non-motile sperm, debris, bacteria, and white cells before intrauterine insemination. They also remove 60-80% of the motile sperm. No technique has proved superior for pregnancy outcome. Contraindications: Blocked fallopian tubes are a contraindication to COH-IUI because the tubes are required to pick up the oocytes from the ovary and facilitate the mechanical apposition of sperm and oocyte. Outcome : Pregnancy rates and pregnancy outcome after
