Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


because the tubes are required to pick up the oocytes from the ovary and facilitate the mechanical apposition of sperm and oocyte. Outcome : Pregnancy rates and pregnancy outcome after COH-IUI depend upon diagnosis. Few randomized studies are available to assess accurate outcomes after this therapy because it is often attempted in patients who would otherwise be treated with IVF. For example, a patient with pelvic adhesions who cannot afford IVF may opt for a cycle of COH-IUI in hope that more ovulations may increase the chance of an oocyte being geographically close to the fimbrial opening and afford tubal pick-up. The more ovulated oocytes, the better statistical chance of an oocyte reaching the tubal opening. Nonetheless, patients such as this would be less likely to conceive that a patient with normal tube-egg pick-up. Strict criteria for unexplained and male factor infertility were applied in the randomized trial conducted by the Reproductive Medicine Network (65). This study revealed that patients with truly unexplained infertility had a 33% pregnancy/cycle of COH-IUI, higher than couples treated with either COH or IUI alone, and higher than controls. The multiple pregnancy rate was 13.4% overall and the spontaneous abortion rate was 19% overall (22.3% in the COH treated groups). Interestingly, this study treated couples with more than one motile sperm and no other infertility factors. In those couples with sperm counts less than 0.2-21.8 x 10-6, couples were found to have and higher pregnancy rate when treated with COH-IUI than either COH or IUI alone, and higher than controls. Not all couples with unexplained infertility are optimal candidates for COH-IUI. Women with an elevated serum AMH or high basal antral follicle count may experience production of multiple dominant follicles, leading to a higher risk of high-order-multiple pregnancy and/or OHSS. These negative outcomes were noted to be more prevalent in the above study with 6 cases of OHSS, 3 sets of quadruplets, and 4 sets of triplets among the 186 total pregnancies in the COH-IUI group (65). Many argue the relatively low reported pregnancy rates in COH-IUI compared with risks do not justify its use after failure of CC-IUI since IVF success rates have improved greatly over the last decade (66). OOCYTE AND EMBRYO DONATION Oocytes used in IVF are not required to be from the female partner of the infertile couple. Indeed, these procedures allowed women to utilize donor gametes as their male counterparts
