Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


Oocytes used in IVF are not required to be from the female partner of the infertile couple. Indeed, these procedures allowed women to utilize donor gametes as their male counterparts have been doing for over a century. A fertile woman who agrees to donate her oocytes anonymously or to a known couple, undergoes ovulation induction, and the retrieved oocytes are fertilized. Of course, the sperm may also be from a sperm donor. After embryonic development, the embryos are replaced into the female partner of the infertile couple. She is treated with exogenous hormones to synchronize her cycle with the donor. Similarly, a couple can use embryos donated from another person or couple to become pregnant. The hormonal preparation of the female partner’s uterus is similar to an oocyte-donation cycle. In the US, each state has a unique set of laws governing use of donated embryos and oocytes, so practitioners must stay updated on changes in reproductive laws in their state. Legal restrictions and variable costs associated with embryo and oocyte donation has led to reproductive “tourism” where couples travel to other states or countries for reproductive treatment. Indications: Oocytes or embryos obtained from a donor is indicated for patients with medical or surgical menopause or genetic disorders that may impact offspring. Oocyte donors must be physically and mentally healthy and without major genetic diseases in the family, have attained the state’s age of legal majority, and preferably be within 21-34 years of age. The donor must be screened for HIV, hepatitis B surface antigen, hepatitis C antibody, syphilis, chlamydia, and gonorrhea (American Society of Reproductive Medicine Practice Committee Report: Recommendations for gamete and embryo donation: 2012.) Procedure: Both oocyte donors and recipients are carefully selected, counseled and screened before being accepted into the program. Donors may be known to the patient, a volunteer that altruistically donates to an anonymous recipient (usually reimbursed for missed work and effort), or an individual that is undergoing IVF and donates her spare oocytes. Stimulation and transfer are performed as with routine IVF. Contraindications: Any contraindication to pregnancy, spontaneous or induced ovulation would preclude either donation of oocytes or use in an IVF cycle. Outcome: For the 8,921 fresh treatment donor-oocyte cycles initiated in 2013, the reported delivery rate was 49.6% per initiated cycle (www.SART.org). Neither recipient age nor diagnosis plays a substantial role in the success of oocyte donation (67). INTRACYTOPLASMIC SPERM INJECTION (ICSI)
