Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


the reported delivery rate was 49.6% per initiated cycle (www.SART.org). Neither recipient age nor diagnosis plays a substantial role in the success of oocyte donation (67). INTRACYTOPLASMIC SPERM INJECTION (ICSI) Advancements in IVF promulgated its extension to couples with male factor infertility since in vitro fertilization required fewer moving sperm than in vivo fertilization, even after IUI. Furthermore, in the early 1990’s the zona pellucida was incised (zona slitting) or treated with hyaluronic acid (zona drilling) to facilitate sperm transgression across it in cases of male factor infertility. Another technique injected sperm under the zona pellucida (SZI). Indeed, inadvertent penetration of the cytoplasm and injection of a sperm during a SZI procedure in resulted in a pregnancy and sired the best treatment of male factor infertility since donor sperm: Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI) (68). Indications : ICSI is indicated for male factor infertility in which the count, motility, or strict morphology is low. The definite parameters will depend upon each program; in general, a sperm density <5 x 106, motility <20% and strict morphology <5% are indications. In addition, patients with antisperm antibodies may be best treated with ICSI. For 2013, 67% of reported IVF cycles in the United States utilized ICSI as the means for fertilization (www.SART.org). ICSI also enabled men without sperm in their ejaculate to sire a pregnancy. Sperm aspirated from the epididymis (MESA) and from the testicle (TESE) may be used for injection. It is important, however, to realize that men with azoospermia may have a genetic defect which may possibly be inherited and result in infertility in subsequent male offspring. Similarly, men with at least one vas deferens congenitally absent may be a carrier of cystic fibrosis. His wife should be screened for cystic fibrosis mutations to assure that she, too, is not a carrier, lest they have a child affected with the disease. ICSI has been proposed in non-male-factor infertility, but current literature does not support routine use (69). A randomized, multi-center trial showed similar clinical pregnancy rates with conventional insemination and ICSI in non-male-factor patients (33% vs. 26%) and a higher rate of failed fertilization (5%) in the conventional insemination group. Based on these data, the number needed to treat (NNT) to prevent one failed fertilization with ICSI is 33 (70-71). Procedure: Patients treated with ICSI undergo the same procedures as with IVF except that 5 hours after aspiration, one sperm is injected
