Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


one failed fertilization with ICSI is 33 (70-71). Procedure: Patients treated with ICSI undergo the same procedures as with IVF except that 5 hours after aspiration, one sperm is injected into each oocyte. The sperm is pretreated to remove it from the seminal plasma and placed in poly vinyl propylpyrrhidol (PVPP) which slows its movement and allows a single sperm to be aspirated into a glass micropipette. The tail of the sperm is frequently broken off to prevent migration from the cytoplasm after injection. Contraindications: Contraindications to ICSI are those of IVF. Outcome : ICSI requires IVF and Federal law requires that the outcome of all IVF cycles be reported to the national database kept by the CDC and ASRM/SART. PREIMPLANTATION GENETIC TESTING Preimplantation genetic testing encompasses procedures involving the removal of polar bodies from oocytes,blastomeres from cleavage-stage embryos, and trophectoderm cells from day 5-6 embryos to test for mutations in gene sequence or chromosome number prior to embryo transfer. The term "preimplantation genetic diagnosis" (PGD) is used when one or both parents carry a specific gene mutation or chromosomal rearrangement and testing is performed to determine whether that genetic abnormality has been transmitted to the oocyte or embryo. The term "preimplantation genetic screening" (PGS) applies when the genetic parents are presumed to be chromosomally normal and their embryos are screened for abnormalities in chromosome number. In 1990, the first established pregnancies using this procedure were reported (72). In two couples known to be at risk of transmitting adrenoleukodystrophy and X-linked mental retardation, two female embryos were transferred after in vitro fertilization (IVF), biopsy of a single cell at the six to eight cells stage, and sexing by DNA amplification of a Y chromosome-specific repeated sequence. Both women were confirmed as carrying normal female twins. Indication: PGD is indicated for couples at risk for transmitting a specific genetic disease or abnormality to their offspring. Historically evidence did not currently support the routine use of PGS (aneuploidy screening) to increase live birth rates in women of advanced maternal age, with multiple miscarriages or multiple IVF failures (73), but emerging research with newer PGS techniques has shown a modest improvement in implantation rates. A meta-analysis of 11 studies illustrated a higher sustained implantation rate (IR) with pooled relative risk (RR) of 1.39 (95% CI 1.21 – 1.60) among the randomized trials and RR of 1.75 (95% CI 1.15 – 1.45) among observational
