Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


implantation rate (IR) with pooled relative risk (RR) of 1.39 (95% CI 1.21 – 1.60) among the randomized trials and RR of 1.75 (95% CI 1.15 – 1.45) among observational studies (74). PGS technologies continue to evolve and improve, making elective single embryo transfer of the embryo with highest implantation potential more attainable. Procedure: Following oocyte recovery with IVF (see IVF) material from an oocyte or embryo is extracted by creating a perforation in the zona pellucid via a laser, acid Tyrode’s solution, or a sharpened glass needle. The polar body, blastomere(s) or trophectoderm cells are then extracted using a small suction pipette or by gently compressing the oocyte or embryo to extrude material through the opening. To identify specific gene mutations, PGD employs techniques involving the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to amplify a segment of the genome that contains the specific gene of interest. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) is a technique that uses DNA probes labeled with distinctly colored fluorochromes. These probes bind to specific DNA sequences unique to each chromosome and detect missing or excess chromosomal material. Where FISH limits the number of chromosomes able to be tested at once, newer technologies have combined DNA microarrays and comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) to screen more genetic loci in PGS. More recent PGS platforms utilize single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) microarray, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), and next-generation sequencing (NGS) to screen day 5-6 embryos for genetic abnormalities. In order to utilize newer PGS technologies, IVF centers must have experience in trophectoderm biopsy, ability to grow embryos to the blastocyst stage, and a successful cryopreservation program. Contraindications: Contraindications to PGD/PGS are those of IVF. Outcome: The estimated risk of transferring an affected embryo mistakenly identified as normal by traditional single-gene PGD is approximately 2% for recessive disorders and 11% for dominant disorders (75). Prenatal diagnostic testing to confirm the results of PGD is encouraged strongly because the methods used for PGD have technical limitations that include the possibility for a false negative result. NGS involves embryonic DNA being divided into 100-200 base pair sequences and comparing these sequences to a reference genome, and both whole chromosome and segmental chromosome imbalances can be identified (76). However, with this technology, mosaic DNA will labelled “abnormal,” and many argue embryos with some mosaicism may actually be viable in vivo. NGS outcomes are being followed closely as the technology evolves. FERTILITY PRESERVATION An increasing number
