Evaluation of Infertility, Ovulation Induction and Assisted Reproduction
KEYWORDS: infertility, sperm, women, patients, pregnancy, oocyte, ivf, ovulation, age, treatment, diagnosis, factor, oocytes, reproductive, cervical


labelled “abnormal,” and many argue embryos with some mosaicism may actually be viable in vivo. NGS outcomes are being followed closely as the technology evolves. FERTILITY PRESERVATION An increasing number of women are delaying reproduction until their late 30s, 40s and even into their fifth decade of life. Many women understandably have an interest in preserving their fertility, and are seeking the option to cryopreserve their oocytes for later use. Oocyte cryopreservation however, is still considered an experimental procedure and data related to clinical outcomes are limited. According to the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, the only established methods of fertility preservation for women are oocyte and embryo cryopreservation (77,78). Cryopreservation of embryos (as opposed to oocytes) is well established, with the first successful pregnancy from frozen human embryos reported in 1983. Women in committed relationships may elect to cryopreserve embryos with their partners’ sperm, and single women may elect to cryopreserve embryos utilizing donor sperm. Oocyte cryopreservation has become more prevalent in the last decade for fertility preservation in women facing cancer treatment as well as those planning to electively defer childbearing. The American Society for Reproductive Medicine (ASRM) now views elective oocyte cryopreservation as a viable, non-experimental treatment option for women (78). Currently in the US, employers such as Apple and Facebook offer to help offset costs associated with oocyte cryopreservation in attempt to help career-oriented women preserve fertility. Thawed oocytes appear to have similar fertilization and implantation rates as fresh oocytes (79) due to improved cell survival from newer vitrification techniques, and there does not appear to be an increase in congenital anomalies in babies born after this process (80). In the past, retransplantation of cryopreserved ovarian tissue has been proposed as a mechanism for fertility preservation in cancer patients. With only a small number of live births in the United States to date, this methodology will not be discussed further (for a concise review, refer to citation 77 and 81). Indications: Fertility preservation is an option for women with cancer or other illnesses requiring treatment that may compromise their fertility. Fertility preservation is also an elective option for women who are interested in childbearing at a later time, but patients need to be informed of the potential benefits, limitations and risks of this developing technology. Procedure: Procedures for oocyte and embryo cryopreservation begin in a manner similar as described for IVF (see IVF). The oocytes are
