Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


and may have an impact on glycemic control. Of the motor dysfunctions, gastroparesis, or delayed gastric emptying, is the most important and will be discussed in relatively greater detail. This chapter is limited to the gastrointestinal manifestations of type 1 and 2 diabetes and does not address other causes of diabetes, such as that related to cystic fibrosis. GASTROINTESTINAL SYMPTOMS Gastrointestinal symptoms are exhibited frequently in type 1 and 2 diabetes and most, but not all, studies suggest that they are significantly more common in diabetes than in controls without diabetes ( 1 ); reported inconsistencies likely reflect discrepancies in the methodology used and the patient populations studied. It should be appreciated that gastrointestinal symptoms are often not volunteered, particularly those considered embarrassing (such as fecal incontinence) and it would not be surprising if current estimates are less than is really the case. Symptoms, unfortunately, continue to be evaluated in clinical trials solely using participant ‘self-report’ despite its appreciated unreliability, rather than simple, validated measures, which are used widely in the assessment of ‘functional’ gastrointestinal disorders (e.g. irritable bowel syndrome and functional depression) ( 2 ) ( 1 ) Symptoms appear to be more common in women with diabetes, as is the case with functional gastrointestinal disorders ( 3 ). While it is unclear whether symptom prevalence varies between type 1 and type 2 diabetes there is no doubt that gastrointestinal symptoms have a substantial negative impact on quality of life in people with diabetes ( 4 ). There is, however, a poor correlation between gastrointestinal symptoms and measures of function, such as the rate of gastric emptying. The natural history of gastrointestinal symptoms remains poorly defined, although it is known that onset and disappearance of symptoms is common i.e. there is considerable ‘symptom turnover’ - approximately 15-25% over a 2-year period has been observed in type 2 patients ( 1 ). This symptom turnover has been reported to be associated with the onset of depression, but not with autonomic neuropathy or glycemic control ( 5 ). GASTROINTESTINAL MANIFESTATIONS IN DIABETES Esophagus The esophagus, a muscular tube connecting the pharynx to the stomach, enables propulsion of swallowed food, with a sphincter at either end (the upper and lower esophageal sphincters) to prevent esophago-pharyngeal and gastro-esophageal reflux, respectively. Two common esophageal symptoms are heartburn (as part of gastro-esophageal reflux disease) and dysphagia (potentially indicating esophageal motor dysfunction). Techniques to evaluate esophageal
