Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


to prevent esophago-pharyngeal and gastro-esophageal reflux, respectively. Two common esophageal symptoms are heartburn (as part of gastro-esophageal reflux disease) and dysphagia (potentially indicating esophageal motor dysfunction). Techniques to evaluate esophageal motility include conventional and high-resolution manometry (HRM). Scintigraphy can measure esophageal transit but has not been standardized and is not commonly employed in clinical settings. The relationship between esophageal transit and gastric emptying in diabetes is poor ( 6 ). Acute hyperglycemia inhibits esophageal motility ( 7 ), and reduces the basal lower esophageal sphincter pressure ( 8 ). While the esophagus has been less well studied than the stomach, it is clear that disordered esophageal function occurs frequently and that disordered motility in both the esophagus and stomach may share a similar pathogenesis. It has been postulated that the major mechanism underlying esophageal dysmotility is a reduction of cholinergic activity and vagal parasympathetic dysfunction ( 9 ). The pathological abnormalities associated with gastroparesis, such as a reduction in interstitial cells of Cajal and inhibitory intrinsic neurons, have also been postulated to be relevant to esophageal dysmotility ( 10 ). Diffuse esophageal muscular hypertrophy was reported in two-thirds of people with diabetes in one case series ( 11 ). There are limited evidence-based options for the management of esophageal disorders in diabetes. General measures include lifestyle modifications (improved glycemic control, weight loss, dietary modifications, and physical exercise). Prokinetic agents have been used, albeit with limited evidence to support efficacy. The latter include dopaminergic agents (metoclopramide, domperidone), serotonin receptor agonists (cisapride), and motilin agonists (erythromycin). Botulinum toxin was trialed in a pilot study in patients with achalasia (including those with diabetes) and peripheral neuropathy and improvements in effective peristalsis induction and contraction amplitude were reported ( 12 ). Gastro-esophageal reflux disease (GERD) is extremely common in the general population and also frequently seen in diabetes. In non-erosive GERD, treatment involves lifestyle measures (bed elevation of 30 degrees at head- end) and use of proton-pump inhibitors. In a community study, a reduced rate of heartburn was found in type 1 patients when compared with a control population ( 13 ), although this observation remains to be confirmed and the implications are unclear. Disordered esophageal motility, especially the elderly, increases the risk of ‘pill-induced esophagitis’, with mucosal injury due to prolonged exposure to impacted medications ( 14 ). Diabetes is an independent risk factor ( 14 ), and the condition usually presents as
