Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


‘pill-induced esophagitis’, with mucosal injury due to prolonged exposure to impacted medications ( 14 ). Diabetes is an independent risk factor ( 14 ), and the condition usually presents as chest pain with or without odynophagia. Treatment involves withdrawal of the offending agent and use of proton pump inhibitors ( 15 ). Stomach - Diabetic Gastroparesis INTRODUCTION Delayed gastric emptying in diabetes was first reported almost a century ago, but it was Kassander who, in 1958, documented asymptomatic increased gastric retention of barium in diabetes and coined the descriptive term ‘gastroparesis diabeticorum’ ( 16 ). Interestingly, Kassander also suggested in their paper that gastroparesis could adversely impact glycemic control. Some sixty years on, diabetic gastroparesis, traditionally defined as abnormally delayed gastric emptying of solid food in the absence of mechanical obstruction, remains a diagnostic and management challenge ( 17 ). Gastroparesis occurs in both type 1 and 2 diabetes and may not, necessarily, be indicative of a poor prognosis ( 18 , 19 ). The rate of gastric emptying is now appreciated as a major determinant of postprandial glycemia in both health and diabetes ( 20 ), and novel anti-diabetic medications, such as short acting GLP-1 receptor agonists, diminish postprandial glycemic excursions predominantly by slowing gastric emptying, are used widely. EPIDEMIOLOGY OF DIABETIC GASTROPARESIS The ‘true’ incidence and prevalence of diabetic gastroparesis globally remain uncertain largely due to inconsistencies in the definition of gastroparesis, study populations, and methodology. It is, however, clear that diabetes is a leading cause of gastroparesis, accounting for about 30% of cases in tertiary referral studies ( 17 ). A recent analysis of data from the follow-up arm of the landmark prospective study in type 1 diabetes, called DCCT-EDIC (Diabetes Control and Complications –Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications) found that delayed gastric emptying of a solid meal occurred in 47% of this population, consistent with the prevalence reported in other cross-sectional studies ( 21 ). Previously believed to be essentially a complication of advanced type 1 diabetes (T1D), it is now apparent that gastroparesis also occurs frequently in type 2 diabetes (T2D) ( 16 , 22 ). Risk factors for gastroparesis include a long duration of diabetes, the presence of other microvascular complications, female gender, obesity. and smoking ( 17 ). In a recent report from the NIH Gastroparesis Consortium, the proportion of T1D and T2D was comparable (although many more people with T2D have
