Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


obesity. and smoking ( 17 ). In a recent report from the NIH Gastroparesis Consortium, the proportion of T1D and T2D was comparable (although many more people with T2D have gastroparesis as its prevalence is much higher), although a US-based community study based on symptomatic cases, reported an incidence of approximately 5% in T1D and 1% in T2D (compared with 0.01% in controls) ( 23 ). Data from the US indicate that hospitalizations due to diabetic gastroparesis rose 158% between 1995-2004, which may reflect a true increase in incidence and / or greater clinical awareness of the condition ( 24 ). Not surprisingly, health care costs related to diabetic gastroparesis have also increased substantially in recent years. It should, however, also be noted that the awareness of the central importance of glycemic control to the development and progression of microvascular complications, and the consequent increased priority in management to improve it, may have led to a reduction in the incidence of gastroparesis. Consistent with this, it has recently been shown that in well-controlled T2D, even when longstanding, the prevalence of gastroparesis is low and, not infrequently, gastric emptying is modestly accelerated ( 19 , 25 ). DIAGNOSIS OF DIABETIC GASTROPARESIS As alluded to, the presence of gastrointestinal symptoms is poorly predictive of delayed gastric emptying. It is well established that patients with debilitating upper GI symptoms may have normal, or even rapid emptying, while others with unequivocally markedly delayed emptying may report few, or no symptoms. Measurement of gastric emptying, after exclusion of mechanical obstruction at the gastric outlet or proximal small intestine is, accordingly, mandatory for a formal diagnosis of gastroparesis, for which scintigraphy, developed in the 1970s, remains the ‘gold standard’ technique. An attempt has been made to standardize the methodology, with the American Neurogastroenterology and Motility Society and the Society of Nuclear Medicine defining gastroparesis by the intra-gastric retention of >60% of a standardized meal at 2 hours and/or >10% at 4 hours ( 26 ). The test meal advocated in the consensus statement comprises two egg-whites, two slices of bread and jam (30 g) with water (120 ml), providing 255 kcal with little fat (72% carbohydrate, 24% protein, 2% fat and 2% fiber) ( 26 ). While a useful exercise, the probability of universal adoption of a specific meal, especially outside Western cultures, is intuitively low. The advantages of scintigraphy are its capacity for precise, concurrent
