Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


While a useful exercise, the probability of universal adoption of a specific meal, especially outside Western cultures, is intuitively low. The advantages of scintigraphy are its capacity for precise, concurrent measurement of both solid and liquid meal components (the ‘consensus’ test meal only labels the solid component); however, it involves radiation exposure and requires sophisticated equipment and technical expertise. Acceptable alternatives include 13 C based breath tests and ultrasonography, neither of which involve radiation exposure, although the latter is operator-dependent ( 22 ). Newer techniques, such as the wireless motility capsule, MRI, and SPECT imaging have emerged, but at present these should be considered less accurate than scintigraphy and / or only relevant to a research setting ( 17 ). PATHOGENESIS OF DIABETIC GASTROPARESIS Gastric emptying is a complex, coordinated process by which chyme is delivered to the small intestine at a tightly regulated rate and involves the gastro-intestinal musculature, nervous systems (intrinsic and extrinsic), gastric ‘pacemaker’ (so-called ‘Interstitial cells of Cajal or ICC), immune cells, and fibroblast-like cells that stain positive for platelet derived growth factor receptor alpha. In the fasting state, a cyclical pattern of contractile activity known as the ‘migrating motor complex’ (MMC) sweeps from the stomach through to the small intestine, which serves a “housekeeping’ role i.e. facilitating the movement of ingestible food particles and bacteria from the stomach through the intestine ( 27 ). There are distinct phases of the MMC: phase I consists of motor quiescence lasting approximately 40 min, phase II, approximately 50 min, is comprised of irregular contractions, and phase III is characterized by regular contractions (at approximately 3 per min in the stomach and about 10-12 per small intestine) for 10 min during which the bulk of indigestible solids are emptied ( 28 ). Following meal ingestion, the MMC is replaced by a ‘postprandial’ motor pattern. Solids are then mixed with gastric acid and ground into small particles (usually < 1-2 mm) in the distal stomach. Gastric accommodation is mediated by vagal and nitrergic mechanisms, antral contractions by vagal and intrinsic cholinergic mediation, and pyloric relaxation by nitrergic mechanisms ( 17 ). The resultant chyme is delivered through the pylorus to the proximal duodenum predominantly in a pulsatile manner ( 22 , 27 ). It is now appreciated that the rate of emptying is regulated primarily by nutrient-induced inhibitory feedback arising from the small intestine, rather than by ‘intragastric’ mechanisms (
