Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


, 27 ). It is now appreciated that the rate of emptying is regulated primarily by nutrient-induced inhibitory feedback arising from the small intestine, rather than by ‘intragastric’ mechanisms ( 29 ). Digestible solids and high nutrient liquids empty from the stomach in an overall linear fashion as a result of this feedback ( 6 ); solid emptying is preceded by an initial so-called ‘lag-phase’ of 20-40 min during which solids are ground into small particles. In contrast to solids, low or non-nutrient liquids empty in an overall, volume-dependent, monoexponential pattern because small intestinal feedback is less ( 27 ). A number of gut peptides play a key role in providing intestinal feedback, including GLP-1, CCK, and peptide YY. In contrast, ghrelin and motilin, which accelerate gastric emptying, are suppressed following food intake ( 22 , 27 ). Both the length and region of small intestine exposed to nutrients modulate feedback to slow gastric emptying ( 30 ). Disordered gastric emptying represents the outcome of impairments of variable combinations of these diverse components. Advances in understanding the underlying pathophysiology have been made over the past decade, particularly through the efforts of the NIH-funded Gastroparesis Clinical Research Consortium. Histological studies from this group and others have shown a reduction in the number of interstitial cells of Cajal in diabetic gastroparesis, which correlates with the magnitude of delay in emptying ( 31 ). Interstitial cells of Cajal loss appears to be driven by an immune infiltrate involving a shift from protective M2, to classically activated, M1 macrophages, with defective regulation of heme oxygenase-1 and resultant oxidative stress. Altered expression of the Ano-1 gene which influences conduction in the Interstitial cells of Cajal has also been reported ( 32 ). A reduction in inhibitory neurons expressing nitric oxide synthase also appears to contribute ( 31 ). GASTRIC EMPTYING AND GLYCEMIA ( FIGURE 1 ) Figure 1. Bidirectional relationship between gastric emptying and glycemia. Abbreviations: CCK, cholecystokinin; GIP, gastric inhibitory polypeptide; GLP-1, glucagon-like peptide 1; PYY, peptide YY. Reproduced with permission from Philips et al ( 22 ). Gastric emptying exhibits a wide inter-individual variation (ranging between 1-4kcal /min in health and even wider in diabetes because of the high prevalence of gastroparesis and, less often, abnormally rapid emptying) ( Figure 2 ). Gastric emptying is a major determinant of postprandial glycemia across glucose-tolerant states and these relationships are time- dependent. In individuals with
