Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


less often, abnormally rapid emptying) ( Figure 2 ). Gastric emptying is a major determinant of postprandial glycemia across glucose-tolerant states and these relationships are time- dependent. In individuals with normal glucose tolerance, following a 75g oral glucose drink, the early (approximately 30 min) rise in glucose is directly proportional to the rate of emptying, while the 120 min value (the standard endpoint in an OGTT) is inversely related. This relationship shifts to the right as glucose tolerance worsens, such that both 30- and 120-min glucose values are directly proportional to the gastric emptying rate in type 2 diabetes( 33 - 35 ).Epidemiological studies indicate that about 50% of people with impaired glucose tolerance or IGT will develop frank type 2 diabetes and, hence, factors affecting progression are of considerable interest. We have shown that the disposition index – a predictor of progression to type 2 diabetes – is inversely related to the gastric emptying rate ( 36 ), suggesting that the rate of emptying may influence the progression. There is evidence that the 1-hour plasma glucose level in a 75g oral glucose tolerance test is strongly associated with the risk of future type 2 diabetes ( 37 ) and this is known to be dependent on the rate of gastric emptying ( 34 , 35 ). In type 2 diabetes, slowing of gastric emptying (such as by morphine) reduces the postprandial glycemic profile, while accelerating emptying by pro-kinetics (such as erythromycin) increases it ( 38 ). Bypassing the stomach and delivering glucose directly into the small intestine at specified rates (within the physiological span of gastric emptying) via naso- duodenal catheters has been used as a model to characterize the impact of gastric emptying on glycemia. These 'surrogate' studies indicate that gastric emptying is a major determinant of postprandial insulin secretion and the magnitude of the so-called 'incretin' effect (the augmented insulin secretory response to oral or enteral, compared with intravenous, glucose). Moreover, the relative contribution of the two 'incretin' hormones (GIP and GLP-1) to the incretin effect in health varies such that GIP is the predominant contributor when glucose enters the small intestine at 2kcal/ min or less, with GLP-1 contributing only at higher rates of duodenal glucose delivery (3 or 4 kcal per min) ( 39 ). It is, therefore, likely that the relative contributions of GIP and GLP-1 to the postprandial insulin response and glycemia depend
