Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


delivery (3 or 4 kcal per min) ( 39 ). It is, therefore, likely that the relative contributions of GIP and GLP-1 to the postprandial insulin response and glycemia depend on an individual’s intrinsic rate of emptying. Variations in blood glucose also affect gastric emptying. Through ‘glucose clamp’ studies, we have shown that abrupt elevations in blood glucose slows gastric emptying in a ‘dose- dependent’ manner, i.e. the slowing is dependent on the magnitude of the elevation in blood glucose ( 7 ). Moreover, when blood glucose is ‘clamped’ at about 8 mmol/L or 144 mg/dL (i.e. physiological hyperglycemia), gastric emptying is modestly slower in both health and well-controlled type 1 diabetes ( 40 ). This may, however, not apply to spontaneous elevations in blood glucose ( 41 ) and further clarification is required. On the other hand, acute hypoglycemia (blood glucose about 2.6 mmol/L or 46.8 mg/dL) accelerates gastric emptying markedly in both groups ( 42 ), and is likely to represent an important counter-regulatory mechanism. It follows that the acute glycemic environment, by altering gastric emptying, is likely to influence intestinal absorption of nutrients, as well as oral medications, which has hitherto been poorly appreciated in clinical practice. The impact of chronic glycemic control on gastric emptying remains uncertain. Figure 2. Gastric emptying of solids (minced beef) (A), shown as the retention at 100 min (percent); and the gastric emptying of liquids (10% dextrose) (B), shown as the 50% emptying time (minutes) in 101 outpatients with diabetes. The normal range is indicated by the shaded area. Reproduced with permission from Jones et al ( 43 ). In people with insulin-treated diabetes (type 1 or type 2), it is important to match exogenous insulin delivery with the availability of carbohydrate to minimize the risk of postprandial hypoglycemia. It is, therefore, intuitively likely that delayed gastric emptying predisposes to lower blood glucose concentrations in the early postprandial period (so-called ‘gastric hypoglycemia’) ( 44 ) and subsequent hyperglycemia. A study in type 1 patients reported that insulin requirements were lower in those with gastroparesis during the first 120 min post-meal, but greater during 180-240 min, compared to patients with normal gastric emptying ( 45 ). It is increasingly appreciated that greater glycemic variability is associated with worse outcomes ( 46 ). Knowledge of the rate of emptying may potentially assist the clinician in developing strategies to reduce postprandial glycemic variability in
