Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


glycemic variability is associated with worse outcomes ( 46 ). Knowledge of the rate of emptying may potentially assist the clinician in developing strategies to reduce postprandial glycemic variability in individual patients, although this needs to be evaluated formally. MANAGEMENT OF SYMPTOMATIC GASTROPARESIS ( FIGURE 3 ) Figure 3. Treatment Algorithm for Diabetic Gastroparesis. PRN, as needed. Reproduced with permission from Du et al ( 1 ). General Measures Management of gastroparesis should be individualized. In clinical practice, patients are generally advised to consume small, frequent meals that are low in fat and fiber, with more calories as liquids than solids; ingested solids should be those that fragment readily into small particles ( 47 ). It should, however, be noted that this advice has not been rigorously evaluated and may be difficult to adhere to, so that the involvement of a dietitian is recommended ( 48 ). While optimizing glycemic control is intuitively important, given the inhibitory effect of acute hyperglycemia on gastric emptying, this has not been clearly established to be the case in the chronic setting, although the use of continuous subcutaneous glucose infusion and continuous glucose monitoring has recently been advocated ( 49 ). Concurrent medications should be reviewed and, if possible, those which may slow gastric emptying (e.g. opiates, anticholinergics) ceased. In this regard, it should be appreciated that short-acting GLP-1 receptor agonists (e.g. exenatide BD and lixisenatide) and the amylin analogue, pramlintide ( 50 ), improve chronic glycemic control primarily by slowing gastric emptying. Medications Although studies involving pro-kinetic medications for treatment of gastroparesis have nearly all been of short duration and involved a modest number of participants, these drugs are used widely and form the mainstay of therapy. Major limitations are their adverse effect profile and tachyphylaxis i.e. diminution in pharmacological effect over time. Tachyphylaxis is thought to particularly affect motilin agonists, although this has not been well studied. Cisapride (a 5HT4 agonist) was used widely for symptomatic management, but shown subsequently to be associated with cardiac adverse effects (prolonged QT interval and ‘torsades de pointes’) and taken off the market. The most commonly used medications are discussed below. Some prokinetic drugs also have antiemetic properties. Metoclopramide, a dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, improves gastric emptying ( 48 ), and can be administered via oral, intranasal, and subcutaneous routes, but is associated with central nervous system adverse events (including tardive dyskinesia), which may be irreversible.
