Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


emptying ( 48 ), and can be administered via oral, intranasal, and subcutaneous routes, but is associated with central nervous system adverse events (including tardive dyskinesia), which may be irreversible. Accordingly, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommends short duration (12 weeks) use only. An intranasal formulation of metoclopramide under development was reported to be efficacious in women, but not men, implying the potential importance of gender in selecting the route of delivery ( 51 ). Metoclopramide can also be injected subcutaneously in an attempt to abort attacks of vomiting. It is the only medication that is approved currently by the FDA for the management of gastroparesis. Domperidone is another D2 receptor antagonist, but unlike metoclopramide, does not cross the blood-brain barrier and is associated with fewer adverse events, with apparently comparable improvements in gastric emptying and upper gastrointestinal symptoms ( 48 , 52 ). Domperidone may prolong the QT interval and affect metabolism of other medications through the CYP2D6 pathway ( 48 ). The antibiotic, erythromycin, is a motilin receptor agonist and is effective acutely, and inexpensive, but needs to be administered frequently and may also prolong the QT interval and interact with other medications, in this case through the CYP3A4 pathway ( 48 ). Acute, intravenous, administration of erythromycin markedly accelerates delayed gastric emptying ( 53 ) and may assist in the placement of neuroenteric tubes ( 54 ). The gastrokinetic effect of erythromycin is, however, subject to tachyphylaxis ( 55 ). A number of novel agents are in Phase 2-3 trials, including ghrelin and 5HT4 receptor agonists. Ghrelin (sometimes referred to as the 'hunger' hormone) is secreted from the fundus of the stomach and has important roles in nutrient sensing and appetite regulation. Administration of ghrelin accelerates gastric emptying in both animals and humans ( 56 ). The outcome of phase 2 trials of the ghrelin agonist, relamorelin, have been promising, with a reduction in upper gastrointestinal symptoms in type 1- and 2 patients with gastroparesis as well as an acceleration of gastric emptying ( 57 ). An international phase 3 trial is in progress. Similarly, the oral highly selective 5 HT4 agonists, velusetrag (which was marketed for constipation) and prucalopride, accelerate gastric emptying ( 58 , 59 ). A recent study reported that 4 weeks’ of treatment with prucalopride in 32 people with gastroparesis (including 6 with diabetes) improved both symptoms and accelerated gastric emptying,
