Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


, 59 ). A recent study reported that 4 weeks’ of treatment with prucalopride in 32 people with gastroparesis (including 6 with diabetes) improved both symptoms and accelerated gastric emptying, although sub-group analysis of the diabetic cohort was not performed due to small numbers ( 59 ). Treatment-Refractory Gastroparesis Gastroparesis refractory to dietary and pharmacological intervention is debilitating for the patient and management represents a substantial challenge. Bypassing the stomach using jejunal or parenteral feeding, may be required to sustain nutrition. Gastric electrical stimulation (GES) using the ‘Enterra’ device) appeared to be a promising therapeutic option when initial unblinded studies were indicative of symptom improvement ( 22 , 48 ) and is currently approved by the FDA for ‘humanitarian exemption’; however, a subsequent blinded study failed to show a difference between periods where the stimulator was switched ‘on’ or ‘off’ ( 22 , 48 , 60 , 61 ). A recently reported randomized cross-over trial reported a reduction in frequency of refractory vomiting following GES for a 4-month period in gastroparesis with or without diabetes but improvement in symptom control did not accelerate gastric emptying or benefit quality of life ( 62 ). Similarly, pyloric botulinum toxin injections have fared much better in uncontrolled, than in sham-controlled trials ( 22 ). Surgical and endoscopic interventions, such as pyloroplasty and pyloromyotomy, and acupuncture have been described in literature, but lack controlled outcome data ( 22 , 48 ). Gall Bladder Gall stones are encountered more frequently in people with diabetes, which is not surprising given that risk factors for the development of stones, such as intestinal dysmotility, obesity, and hypertriglyceridemia, are more common in this group (particularly type 2 diabetes) ( 63 ). In addition, impairment of gall bladder motility and autonomic neuropathy, as well as factors such as cholesterol supersaturation and crystal nucleation promoting factors, are considered important. Common techniques used to measure gall bladder motor function include ultrasound and scintigraphy. Some studies have found increased fasting gall bladder volume, while in others, there was no difference, or even a reduction, in people with diabetes. It is possible that differences in the techniques employed (ultrasound or scintigraphy), and the presence of autonomic neuropathy may account for these discrepancies. Many studies, however, have reported impairment in postprandial gall bladder emptying in diabetes, sometimes termed ‘diabetic cholecystoparesis’ ( 63 ). It is also possible that delayed gastric emptying contributes to delayed emptying
