Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


however, have reported impairment in postprandial gall bladder emptying in diabetes, sometimes termed ‘diabetic cholecystoparesis’ ( 63 ). It is also possible that delayed gastric emptying contributes to delayed emptying from the gall bladder. In health, acute hyperglycemia inhibits gall bladder motility in a dose-dependent manner ( 64 ). An increased prevalence of gall bladder-related disorders (including cholecystitis and cholelithiasis) is associated with the use of GLP-1 receptor agonists ( 65 ) and may potentially relate to a drug-induced prolongation of gall bladder refilling time ( 66 ). Similarly, an increase in gall-bladder disease has been reported post-bariatric surgery in obese individuals (including those with diabetes) with the implication that dramatic weight loss may predispose ( 67 ). Small Intestine While diabetic enteropathy is common, it has been studied much less comprehensively than diabetic gastroparesis ( 68 ). Symptoms of constipation and diarrhea are discussed in the section on large intestinal disorders in diabetes, which follows. Traditionally, vagal dysfunction has been regarded as the major impairment in diabetic enteropathy. However, as is the case with gastroparesis, recent evidence has suggested a critical role for both interstitial cells of Cajal and nNOS ( 31 ). Acute hyperglycemia also has a major effect on postprandial small intestinal motility in health (and, presumably, diabetes) by reducing the amplitude of duodenal and jejunal pressure waves, as well as retarding duodenal-cecal transit ( 69 ). Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO), probably secondary to altered small intestinal motility, is commonly encountered in diabetes; estimates range between 15-40% in type 1 diabetic cohorts. A major limitation of these studies is lack of a ‘gold standard’ method for diagnosis. There is limited information about small intestinal glucose absorptive function in diabetes but, based on animal models, it has been suggested that carbohydrate digestion is disordered. For example, streptozotocin-induced diabetes in rats, is associated with an increase in mucosal absorption of glucose ( 70 ). We have demonstrated that small intestinal glucose absorption is comparable in uncomplicated type 1 patients and healthy controls, but probably affected by both duodenal motility and the prevailing glycemic environment ( 71 ) - when blood glucose was elevated, intestinal glucose absorption was increased, while absorption was comparable to that in healthy controls during euglycemia. A fundamental limitation in interpreting the outcome of the numerous studies which have reported the potent modulatory effect of the rate of gastric emptying on postprandial glycemia is their
