Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


euglycemia. A fundamental limitation in interpreting the outcome of the numerous studies which have reported the potent modulatory effect of the rate of gastric emptying on postprandial glycemia is their failure to discriminate between effects mediated by changes in gastric emptying from those potentially secondary to changes in small intestinal transit ( 72 ). DIAGNOSIS OF ENTEROPATHY Diabetic enteropathy is often a diagnosis of exclusion. It is essential to exclude underlying non-diabetes related etiologies where relevant – for example, testing for celiac disease in type 1 patients is recommended. It should be appreciated that gastrointestinal adverse effects occur frequently with commonly used anti-diabetic medications. Metformin, GLP-1RAs, SGLT2 inhibitors, and particularly alpha-glucosidase inhibitors (e.g. acarbose), which are used widely, are commonly associated with intestinal symptoms. Small intestinal manometry (measurement of contractile activity) may provide mechanistic insights, but its use is limited to specialized centers. Scintigraphy can quantify small intestinal transit, but the diagnostic significance is uncertain. More recently, technologies, including ingestible wireless capsules (such as the SmartPill) and continuous tracking of capsules (3D-Transit system), have been employed; these are promising, but require further validation before clinical exploitation. Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth can be diagnosed by aspiration and culture of intestinal fluid or breath tests, but both have substantial limitations and neither technique can be regarded as a “gold standard”. MANAGEMENT OF ENTEROPATHY Symptom management with medications is common. Prokinetic agents used for gastroparesis are commonly employed for management of disordered intestinal motility, but much less well evaluated. Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth can be treated with antibiotics, such as rifamixin (most common but expensive), amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, or metronidazole. Not surprisingly, small intestinal bacterial overgrowth frequently relapses. Large Intestine The major function of the colon is to re-absorb water and electrolytes from the intraluminal contents, to concentrate and solidify the waste product, and prepare for its elimination. The most common lower gastrointestinal symptoms are constipation, diarrhea, abdominal pain, and distention. It is difficult to estimate a ‘true’ incidence and prevalence. Cohort studies have reported the presence of chronic constipation in up to 25% of people with type 1 and 2 diabetes, while that of chronic diarrhea is up to 5% ( 73 ). Bytzer et al reported a higher prevalence of constipation and diarrhea in people with type 2 diabetes (15.6% compared with 10% in those without diabetes) ( 3 ). A recent report analyzing data from the large-scale US public survey, NHANES,
