Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


diarrhea in people with type 2 diabetes (15.6% compared with 10% in those without diabetes) ( 3 ). A recent report analyzing data from the large-scale US public survey, NHANES, found that chronic diarrhea was more common in people with type 1 and 2 diabetes compared with non-diabetic controls (~ 11% vs 6%) ( 74 ). CONSTIPATION The etiology of constipation in diabetes is likely to be multifactorial. A study involving only 10 patients found prolonged colonic transit time in those with constipation ( 13 ). Autonomic neuropathy is thought to be important; constipation is more common in those with diabetes and autonomic impairment ( 75 ). Validated techniques for evaluation include colonic transit scintigraphy and the use of radio-opaque markers and wireless motility capsules ( 76 ), but their utility in routine clinical practice has not been fully established. Management of diabetic constipation must include a medication history review and those that may cause constipation should be ceased, if feasible ( figure 4 ). For mild constipation, the American Diabetes Association recommends lifestyle modification such as increased physical exercise and dietary fiber. Over-the-counter laxatives (bulk, osmotic or stimulatory) such as Senna, Bisacodyl and water- soluble fiber supplements are commonly prescribed. Other medications like lactulose, linaclotide, and lubiprostone (the latter two available by prescription in the United States) have been used. There are no head-to-head trials to determine which agent is superior. However, it has been suggested that lactulose may potentiate glucose- lowering ( 77 ). Lubiprostone, which acts by direct activation of CIC-2 chloride channels on enterocytes, has been reported to improve both spontaneous bowel movements and accelerate colon transit in a randomized controlled trial in a cohort with diabetes ( 78 ). In a randomized trial cholinesterase inhibition with pyridostigmine in 30 people with diabetes (12 T1D, 18 T2D) and chronic constipation, there were superior improvements in both bowel function and colonic transit compared with placebo ( 79 ). Figure 4. Algorithm for Management of Chronic Constipation in Patients with Diabetes. CHRONIC DIARRHEA “Diabetic diarrhea” has been traditionally considered a manifestation of autonomic neuropathy ( 80 ). The typical symptom is large volume, painless, nocturnal, diarrhea with or without fecal incontinence. Again, the diagnosis essentially represents one of exclusion and it is important to distinguish diarrhea from fecal incontinence. It should be remembered that widely used glucose-lowering therapies, including metformin (malabsorptive), acarbose (osmotic), and GLP-1 receptor agonists, not
