Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


exclusion and it is important to distinguish diarrhea from fecal incontinence. It should be remembered that widely used glucose-lowering therapies, including metformin (malabsorptive), acarbose (osmotic), and GLP-1 receptor agonists, not infrequently cause diarrhea. It is likely that optimizing glycemic control is important in the management of diabetic diarrhea ( 81 ), but again, this has not been rigorously evaluated. Dietary strategies include a low FODMAP (Fermentable Oligosaccharides, Disaccharides, Monosaccharides and Polyols) diet under guidance of a qualified dietitian, although this has not been evaluated specifically for the diabetes population in clinical trials. Loperamide, an over-the-counter mu opioid receptor agonist, is used widely. Bile acid sequestrants, such as cholestyramine and colesevelam, are used when bile salt malabsorption is suspected, and have the added advantage of reducing LDL cholesterol and glycated hemoglobin. Other agents include clonidine, diphenoxylate, octreotide, and ondansetron ( figure 5 ). It has been reported that people with diabetes, especially type 1 diabetes, are more likely to have inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) such as ulcerative colitis. Diabetes also appears to be an independent risk factor for Clostridium difficile infection where metformin appears to be protective, probably via its action on the gut microbiota ( 82 ). It has also been suggested that there is a link between diabetes and colorectal malignancy ( 83 ), and diabetes is associated with worse outcomes and response to colorectal surgery. Interestingly, some observational studies suggest that metformin may have chemo-preventative properties against colorectal malignancy ( 84 ). Figure 5. Algorithm for Management of Chronic Diarrhea in Patients with Diabetes. Rectum and Anus Fecal incontinence occurs more frequently in people with diabetes and is associated with the duration of disease, and the presence of microvascular complications, including autonomic and peripheral neuropathy ( 85 ). Both internal anal sphincter tone and anal squeeze pressures are reduced in diabetes compared with healthy controls ( 86 , 87 ). A key step in management is to exclude important differential diagnoses, such as colorectal malignancy and irritable bowel disease ( 88 ). No single test can be regarded as ‘gold standard’, but anorectal manometry (conventional, 3D or high resolution) is very useful in clinical practice to estimate ano-rectal motor abnormalities, while barium defecography is useful to detect rectal motory, sensory and structural abnormalities ( 89 ). Treatment of fecal incontinence is rarely curative, and the focus of management is to improve symptoms and quality of life. Fecal impaction
