Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


motory, sensory and structural abnormalities ( 89 ). Treatment of fecal incontinence is rarely curative, and the focus of management is to improve symptoms and quality of life. Fecal impaction with overflow can be managed by initial manual removal of stool from the rectum and enemas (promoting evacuation) and the subsequent prescription of bulk laxatives, increasing fiber intake, and toilet training. Operant reconditioning of rectosphincteric responses, called ‘biofeedback’ training, was first described by Engel et al in 1974 ( 90 ) and can be useful in treating fecal, as well as urinary, incontinence. The technique involves visual demonstration of voluntary contraction of external anal sphincter (EAS) contraction to the patient and training to improve the quality of the response (both strength and duration). Biofeedback training is effective in the longer term in only about 60% of patients in clinical trials; those with a low bowel satisfaction score and having digital evacuations fare better ( 91 ). GASTROINTESTINAL EFFECTS OF ANTI-DIABETIC MEDICATIONS AND THEIR IMPLICATIONS FOR CLINICAL PRACTICE Gastrointestinal adverse effects are extremely common in people treated with glucose-lowering medications for type 2 diabetes. In the case of alpha glucosidase inhibitors such as acarbose and miglitol, these effects (e.g., diarrhea and abdominal distention) are predictable sequelae of the malabsorption of carbohydrate ( 92 ) . There is new information in relation to two classes of medications (biguanides and GLP-1 receptor agonists). Metformin, a biguanide of herbal origin, remains a first line pharmacological agent of choice for type 2 diabetes. The precise mechanisms of action remain uncertain, although it clearly has multiple effects, including in the liver (block gluconeogenesis), as an insulin sensitizer, and direct actions through the gut, including slowing of gastric emptying ( 93 ) . Up to 25% of people using metformin report gastrointestinal adverse events, particularly diarrhea and nausea. Common outpatient clinic strategies to minimize these include initiating treatment at a low dose (i.e., 500mg/day) and gradually up-titrating to usually ~2000 mg/day, use of extended-release formulations and avoiding ingestion on an empty stomach, although evidence to support these approaches is not robust ( 94 ). Similarly, GLP-1 receptor agonists (but not DPP-IV inhibitors which lead to only a modest rise in plasma GLP-1 levels), commonly cause gastrointestinal adverse effects. As mentioned, GLP-1 is a gut-based peptide with a profound, but variable, action to slow gastric emptying. This slowing is more marked when baseline gastric emptying is relatively more
