Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


effects. As mentioned, GLP-1 is a gut-based peptide with a profound, but variable, action to slow gastric emptying. This slowing is more marked when baseline gastric emptying is relatively more rapid and is predictive of the reduction in blood glucose following a meal ( 95 ) . GLP-1 plays a physiological role to slow gastric emptying - gastric emptying is accelerated by the specific GLP-1 antagonist, exendin 9-39 ( 96 ) and delayed by exogenous administration of GLP-1 in modestly supra-physiological plasma levels ( 97 ). Upper gastrointestinal events induced by GLP-1 are, likely to reflect, in part, delayed emptying. As effects are also observed in the fasting state, a direct action on CNS GLP-1 receptors (most notably, area postrema in the brain stem) has also been postulated. A direct effect on the gut is likely to contribute to lower gastrointestinal adverse events such as diarrhea. GLP-1 secreting cells (specialized entero-endocrine ‘L’ cells) are found throughout the gastrointestinal tract, and GLP-1 may exert a local excitatory action in smooth muscle or through the intramural autonomic plexus to increase motility and induce diarrhea ( 98 , 99 ) . A fundamental limitation of the vast majority of clinical trials involving GLP-1 receptor agonists is that gastrointestinal adverse effects have been assessed using participant recall and not validated questionnaires. Nevertheless, results from large cardiovascular outcome trials relating to the use of GLP-1 agonists indicate that the proportion of participants discontinuing GLP-1 receptor agonists due to adverse gastrointestinal events ranges between 4.5 to 13% ( 100 ) . Nausea appears to be the most common symptom (up to 25%), with vomiting and diarrhea reported by about 10% ( 101 ) . A retrospective analysis of 32 phase-3 trials involving ‘long’ and ‘short’ acting GLP-1 receptor agonists reported that gastrointestinal adverse effects are also dose-dependent, and that ‘long’ acting GLP-1 receptor agonists are associated with less nausea and vomiting, but more diarrhea when compared to short-acting GLP-1 receptor agonists ( 101 ). Symptoms are reported most frequently at the time of initiation of a GLP-1 receptor agent and may persist for several hours or days probably dependent on the T max of the drug ( 100 ). Gradual titration of dose is recommended, although evidence to support this approach is uncontrolled. We, and others, have demonstrated employing the gold standard technique of scintigraphy to quantify gastric emptying and both ‘long’ and ‘short’ acting GLP-1
