Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


evidence to support this approach is uncontrolled. We, and others, have demonstrated employing the gold standard technique of scintigraphy to quantify gastric emptying and both ‘long’ and ‘short’ acting GLP-1 receptor agonists delay gastric emptying, although the magnitude of this deceleration appears to be greater with ‘short’ acting GLP-1 receptor agonists ( 95 , 102 - 104 ) . Moreover, it is appreciated that GLP-1 receptor agonists may slow gastric emptying profoundly in doses much lower than those used in the management of type 2 diabetes ( 2 ). It had been suggested, incorrectly, that long acting GLP-1 receptor agonists, which are now the most widely used form, have no effect on gastric emptying with sustained use ( 2 ). A further limitation of clinical trials of GLP-1 receptor agonists is that gastric emptying has either not been measured or a sub-optimal technique used ( 105 ). Instances of apparently GLP-1 receptor agonist-induced gastroparesis are increasingly appearing in the medical literature as case reports ( 106 ). The prevalence of marked delay in gastric emptying induced by GLP-1 receptor agonists remains uncertain but has stimulated guidelines in relation to their use prior to elective surgery or endoscopy. For example, the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA), has recently published consensus guidelines on pre-operative management of people using GLP-1 agonists and have advised withholding a long-acting agent for at least one week prior to the procedure/surgery ( 107 ). Such recommendations lack a strong evidence base. It is uncertain whether these recommendations from the ASA will be universally adopted but it appears intuitively unlikely. Recently a UK-based expert group comprising endocrinologists, anesthetists, and pharmacists have recommended against this generic advice ( 107 ) primarily on the lack of robust data demonstrating an increased risk of aspiration under anesthesia, while being on a GLP-1 receptor agonist, that the recommended duration of avoidance may be inadequate (for example, in people taking 1mg semaglutide, avoidance of one week is likely to reduce the plasma drug concentration by about half, which is still likely to slow gastric emptying), at least in some people and reintroduction of GLP-1 receptor agonists once normal food intake has been established has not clearly defined and there is intuitively the high potential for a deterioration in glycemic control, postoperatively including an increase in glycemic variability. They instead recommend that preoperative assessment for risk of aspiration be individualized. In people co-prescribed with
