Gastrointestinal Disorders in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, emptying, gastric, pubmed, gastric emptying, gastroparesis, gastrointestinal, type, glp-, symptoms, glucose, type diabetes, diabetic, horowitz, motility


potential for a deterioration in glycemic control, postoperatively including an increase in glycemic variability. They instead recommend that preoperative assessment for risk of aspiration be individualized. In people co-prescribed with insulin and GLP-1 receptor agonists, there is likely to be an increased risk of a mismatch between insulin delivery and availability and intestinal glucose absorption due to prolonged gastric retention to predispose to hypoglycemia. Clinicians should be circumspect in prescribing a GLP-1 agonist and insulin combination in those who have impaired awareness of hypoglycemia or suspicion of delayed gastric emptying. PANCREATIC EXOCRINE SUFFICIENCY IN DIABETES There is an intricate anatomical association of endocrine and exocrine components of the pancreas which appears to translate to a reciprocal relationship between endocrine and exocrine dysfunction ( 108 ). However, a wide variation in the prevalence of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency in diabetes has been reported, with evidence that it is greater in type 1 (approx. 25-75%). compared with type 2 (approx. 25-50%) diabetes ( 109 ). The majority of these studies are in hospitalized populations; it is likely that prevalence in the community is lower. Our recent study of community type 2 patients reported a lower prevalence of 9% ( 110 ). The etiology in type 1 is thought to be a combination of lack of insulin (+/- glucagon and somatostatin), autoimmunity, autonomic neuropathy, and microvascular damage while the latter two contribute to pancreatic exocrine insufficiency in type 2 diabetes – it has been suggested that this may explain why pancreatic exocrine insufficiency is more common in patients with type 1 diabetes ( 109 ). Common symptoms are variable and include diarrhea (steatorrhea), abdominal pain, and failure to thrive in children. It is important to discriminate pancreatic and non-pancreatic causes of malabsorption. The relatively deep-seated location of the pancreas hinders easy assessment of its exocrine function. Diagnostic tests can be direct or indirect ( 111 ). Direct tests involve stimulation with exogenous hormones or nutrients while simultaneously collecting pancreatic secretions via duodenal intubation. This technique has many logistical issues (high costs, requirement of expertise, invasive nature) which limits its clinical utility despite being the most sensitive and specific. Examples of indirect tests include the 3-day fecal fat, fecal elastase-1 measurement, and breath tests ( 14 C-triolein). Of these, the most common indirect and non-invasive (as well as relatively inexpensive) test in clinical practice is measurement of fecal elastase 1. It has been suggested that
