NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: serotonin, ibs, patients, sert, manuscript, author, author manuscript, d-ibs, plasma, nih-pa, increased, nih-pa author, colonic, genotype, levels


NIH Public Access Author Manuscript Curr Opin Endocrinol Diabetes Obes. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 February 1. Published in final edited form as: Curr Opin Endocrinol Diabetes Obes. 2009 February ; 16(1): 53–59. Serotonin in the Gastrointestinal Tract Michael Camilleri, M.D. Abstract Purpose of review—To assess the role of serotonin and its control in the manifestations and treatment of lower functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGID). Recent literature has explored several novel concepts in the association of serotonin and symptoms, alterations in tissue levels of serotonin and its reuptake protein (SERT), aspects of the genetic determinants of serotonergic function (particularly 5-HTTLPR) and its relationship to gastrointestinal motor and sensory functions, and novel serotonergic agents used in therapy of lower FGID. The most consistent findings are the increase in plasma 5-HT in diarrheal diseases and reduction in constipation. The SERT in platelets impacts on the circulating level of 5-HT. Meta-analysis shows that 5-HTTLPR genotype is not significantly associated with IBS in Caucasians or Asians. New 5-HT antagonists and 5-HT 3 4 agonists are efficacious and promise to provide relief for patients if they can pass regulatory hurdles. Summary—While the most relevant implication for clinical practice remains the evidence that serotonergic agents are efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation, chronic diarrhea and irritable bowel syndrome, the role of genetic control of 5-HT and its receptors is the subject of ongoing research, and is likely to enhance understanding of the mechanisms and treatment of these diseases. Keywords serotonin-transporter; reuptake; genotype; irritable bowel syndrome; prucalopride; ATI-7505; TD-5108; 5-HT antagonist INTRODUCTION This brief review of the role of serotonin in the gastrointestinal tract focuses on the literature pertaining to the lower functional gastrointestinal diseases: irritable bowel syndrome, constipation and diarrhea. Nine questions are addressed in the review: Is serotonin a pivotal mechanism in IBS? Is there increased or decreased expression of serotonin in the gastrointestinal tract? Is there a difference in brain 5-HT or responses to 5-HT receptor modulation in IBS? What is the effect of increased serotonin on gastrointestinal motor and secretory functions? Is Intestinal serotonin reuptake abnormal in functional GI disorders? Are tissue SERT levels abnormal in IBS? What are recent advances in the genetics of serotonin receptors and SERT in IBS or affective disorders in IBS? Are there examples of pharmacogenetics related to serotonergic agents? Are there new treatments involving novel serotonergic agents? Copyright 2008 Mayo Foundation E-mail: . NIH-PA Author Manuscript
