NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: serotonin, ibs, patients, sert, manuscript, author, author manuscript, d-ibs, plasma, nih-pa, increased, nih-pa author, colonic, genotype, levels


affective disorders in IBS? Are there examples of pharmacogenetics related to serotonergic agents? Are there new treatments involving novel serotonergic agents? Copyright 2008 Mayo Foundation E-mail: . NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript 1. Is serotonin a pivotal mechanism in IBS? Since 95% of the serotonin in the body is located in the gut, one would reasonably assume that postprandial plasma levels of 5-HT are derived from the gut. Reports of plasma 5-HT concentrations in different functional GI disorders suggest that there may be a role for circulating serotonin in determining predominant bowel function: serotonin is increased in diarrhea and celiac disease, decreased in constipation. For example, Dunlop et al. reported that platelet-poor plasma 5-HT from 0 to 180 minutes postprandially was significantly lower in C- IBS and higher in PI-IBS patients, and suggested that abnormalities in postprandial 5-HT release may be related to the different IBS symptoms (1). Is this increase specific to D-IBS? It is possible that increased plasma 5-HT is a non-specific of diarrhea, since patients with celiac disease also have increased plasma 5-HT (2). Houghton et al. documented increased circulating 5-HT postprandially in D-IBS (3). However, the timing of symptoms did not coincide with the increase in plasma serotonin which would be expected to coincide if there was an association between serotonin and symptoms. Thus, the peak serotonin concentration in plasma was reached 2–3 hours after the meal in all study groups and appears to coincide with the arrival of nutrients in the more distal intestine. In contrast, the timing of postprandial symptoms in patients with IBS is earlier and may be mediated by other mechanisms initiated by gastric mechanoreceptors or upper intestinal mediators that stimulate the colonic response to feeding. Candidate mediators released within the foregut or midgut, such as gastrin, cholecystokinin, secretin, pancreatic polypeptide, motilin, the vasoactive intestinal polypeptide family (including PHI/PHM), and neurotensin may be evoking the colonic response and the associated postprandial symptoms, such as urgency or diarrhea which are common in patients with D-IBS (4). The same discordance between timing of symptoms after ingestion of cold water in D-IBS and elevation of plasma serotonin is noted in another paper, which reported a significant correlation between symptoms and area under the curve of the plasma 5-HT (5). Studies of plasma levels of 5-HT are complicated by the presence of an avid serotonin transporter (SERT) in platelets. Thus, while the
