NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: serotonin, ibs, patients, sert, manuscript, author, author manuscript, d-ibs, plasma, nih-pa, increased, nih-pa author, colonic, genotype, levels


under the curve of the plasma 5-HT (5). Studies of plasma levels of 5-HT are complicated by the presence of an avid serotonin transporter (SERT) in platelets. Thus, while the postprandial circulating serotonin likely originates from the gut, interpretation of circulating levels is more complex, and recent data suggest that there may be differences in platelet SERT function in different IBS subgroups. SERT expressed on platelet membranes of D-IBS patients is characterized by low density and binding affinity. One report suggested a possible correlation between the reduced capacity of serotonin reuptake and the severity of D-IBS symptoms (6). More recently, two groups provided functional evidence in support of this concept by measuring mucosal 5-HT turnover as assessed by mucosal 5-HIAA (metabolite produced after reuptake) to 5-HT ratio. The Nottingham group showed that mucosal 5-HIAA/5-HT ratio was decreased in both C-IBS and post-infectious (PI)-IBS patients, compared with healthy controls (1). Atkinson et al. (7) showed that D-IBS patients had raised platelet-depleted plasma 5-HT concentrations under fasting and fed conditions (Figure 1) and C-IBS patients failed to show an increase in plasma 5-HT with meal ingestion, compared with controls. C-IBS was associated with decreased plasma 5-HIAA (P<0.01), normal 5-HIAA:5-HT ratio, and increased platelet 5-HT. In contrast, D-IBS with normal plasma 5-HIAA reduced 5-HIAA:5-HT ratio and normal platelet 5-HT. These results support the concept that D-IBS is characterized by reduced 5-HT reuptake, whereas impaired release of 5-HT from platelets may be a feature of C-IBS. These data are consistent with the observation by Bellini et al. (6) that reduced SERT expression in platelets in D-IBS correlates with symptom severity. Curr Opin Endocrinol Diabetes Obes. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 February 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript 2. Is there increased or decreased expression of serotonin in the gastrointestinal tract? This field is controversial, with evidence arguing for increased expression of 5-HT or the rate- limiting enzyme of its synthesis (tryptophan hydroxylase-1, TpH-1) in PI-IBS (8), in patients with constipation (1,9), and in Crohn’s disease patients in remission who experience IBS-like symptoms (10). These patients have increased mucosal TpH-1 levels in the colon, suggesting that increased serotonin biosynthesis in the colon plays a role in the generation of the symptoms in these patients (10). Increased duodenal mucosal 5-HT has also been reported in constipation, though the significance is unclear (11). Other studies identified decreased 5-HT in jejunal mucosa in
