NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: serotonin, ibs, patients, sert, manuscript, author, author manuscript, d-ibs, plasma, nih-pa, increased, nih-pa author, colonic, genotype, levels


symptoms in these patients (10). Increased duodenal mucosal 5-HT has also been reported in constipation, though the significance is unclear (11). Other studies identified decreased 5-HT in jejunal mucosa in IBS (12) or no difference in gastric mucosal 5-HT during fasting or after a water “meal” in IBS (5). Summarizing this literature, it appears that there is no consistent message or clear mechanistic interpretation that can be gleaned from these findings. Further research is necessary in large numbers of patients with clearly defined phenotype and genotype, given the potential genetic variations in rates of synthesis and re-uptake of serotonin. 3. Is there a difference in brain 5-HT or responses to 5-HT receptor modulation in IBS? Using an indirect measure to assess central 5-HT responses in IBS, there was an exaggerated 1A of this finding is unclear. In studies of brain imaging conducted in association with rectal stimulation, there were significantly greater decreases in activity of the amygdala, ventral striatum, hypothalamus and infragenual cingulate gyrus in 52 non-constipated irritable bowel syndrome patients after 3 weeks of treatment with a 5-HT -receptor antagonist, alosetron, compared to placebo. The decreases in brain activity were observed in response to unanticipated, anticipated and delivered aversive rectal stimuli. These data suggest that alosetron decreased activation in structures of the emotional motor system, and this is associated with a decrease in gastrointestinal symptoms (14). Subsequent studies showed that greater symptom improvement was predicted by less activity in bilateral orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and medial temporal gyrus during pre-treatment scans. Lower levels of interpersonal sensitivity predicted greater symptom improvement and were positively related to activity in left OFC (15). The role of brain 5-HT and its receptors in IBS requires further study. 4. What is the effect of increased serotonin on gastrointestinal motor and secretory functions? Over 50 years ago, it was demonstrated that 5-HT affects intestinal motility in humans, though initial studies suggested it stimulated small bowel motility and inhibited gastric and colonic phasic contractions (16,17). Sigmoid colonic motility appears to be increased in patients with IBS. Involvement of 5-HT in the dysmotility observed in IBS remains unclear, although data show a possible relationship between endogenous concentrations of 5-HT and sigmoid colonic motility recorded in both IBS and healthy subjects. There were significant correlations of fed sigmoid colonic motor activity index with platelet-depleted plasma 5-HT concentration in IBS patients and healthy volunteers; the R values suggest that the
