NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: serotonin, ibs, patients, sert, manuscript, author, author manuscript, d-ibs, plasma, nih-pa, increased, nih-pa author, colonic, genotype, levels


healthy subjects. There were significant correlations of fed sigmoid colonic motor activity index with platelet-depleted plasma 5-HT concentration in IBS patients and healthy volunteers; the R values suggest that the 5-HT level explains less than 20% of the variance in the postprandial colonic motility (18). Curr Opin Endocrinol Diabetes Obes. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 February 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript There are, however, other human data suggesting a role of 5-HT mechanisms in colonic motility in disease states and in pharmacological models. First, carcinoid diarrhea (the disease associated with highest endogenous 5-HT levels) is associated with exaggerated colonic tone, particularly postprandially (19). Second, the 5-HT agonist, tegaserod, increases colonic tone and phasic contractility (20). Third, 5-HT antagonists inhibit the increase in colonic tone after Serotonin causes secretion; carcinoid diarrhea is a classical example of a secretory diarrhea (23). The secretory effects of serotonin are mediated through different receptors: 5-HT induces secretion across human ileal mucosa via a receptor of the 5-HT subtype, whereas a receptor of the 5-HT subtype appears to mediate the effect in human sigmoid colon (24). 2A 5. Is intestinal serotonin reuptake abnormal in functional GI disorders? Serotonin is released diffusely into the lamina propria and its action is rapidly terminated by reuptake by nerve terminals, enterocytes and vascular endothelial cells. Reuptake of 5-HT requires active co-transport with Na+ by the serotonin transporter (SERT), the driving force for uptake being the sodium gradient generated by the basolaterally located Na+, K+ATPase. The functional activity of SERT depends on its membrane expression. A recent report fully characterized SERT in human intestinal mucosa; expression is localized predominantly to the apical and intracellular compartments and is distributed throughout the crypt-villus axis. There is higher SERT mRNA expression in the human small intestine compared with colon (ileum >> duodenum >> jejunum). These data show there is a functional SERT in human intestinal epithelial cells, capable of removing intraluminal serotonin. This is relevant since serotonin is released by nutrients and serves as a “taste” mechanism, activating local and long reflexes through activation of intrinsic afferents (25). However, the presence of SERT is important for homeostatic control, to prevent an excessive stimulation of secretion or motility by the serotonin (26). At the present time, several serotonin reuptake inhibitors are available to alter the biological function of 5-HT. While these medications may alter small bowel transit or colonic
