NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: serotonin, ibs, patients, sert, manuscript, author, author manuscript, d-ibs, plasma, nih-pa, increased, nih-pa author, colonic, genotype, levels


the serotonin (26). At the present time, several serotonin reuptake inhibitors are available to alter the biological function of 5-HT. While these medications may alter small bowel transit or colonic tone (27, of intestinal serotonin may be more directly influenced by novel specific inhibitors of type 1 tryptophan hydroxylase 1, the rate-limiting enzyme for 5-HT synthesis (30). 6. Are tissue SERT levels abnormal in IBS? SERT expressed on platelet membranes of D-IBS patients is reduced (6). SERT platelet function may influence levels of circulating 5-HT. However, a controversial question in the literature is: Are rectal mucosal SERT levels abnormal in IBS? Coates et al. reported that both D-IBS and C-IBS had exceedingly low expression of SERT mRNA in rectal mucosa (31). These results were not replicated in a study that included several additional levels of validation in the assays performed, including measurements at multiple sites in the left colon and at two time points separated by an average of three months (32). Moreover, a preliminary report of SERT in mucosal biopsies from gastric antrum, duodenum, and rectum in IBS and functional dyspepsia also failed to show any difference between C-IBS and healthy controls (33). Finally, levels in duodenal biopsies of 5-HT and SERT, but not of TpH-1 were increased in C-IBS compared to controls (11). In summary, the much heralded finding of markedly decreased SERT in rectal mucosa of patients with IBS has not been replicated. Although a commentary suggested, “There is no obvious explanation for these conflicting findings other than patient heterogeneity” (34), it appears that different assay methodologies, including the selection of the control protein for Curr Opin Endocrinol Diabetes Obes. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 February 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript comparison of expression of SERT mRNA, as well as the greater validation steps conducted in the more recent studies (32,33) suggest that the expression of SERT in rectal mucosa is not altered in IBS. It is also still unclear why D-IBS and C-IBS showed the same expression level (31), and the mechanisms whereby the reduced SERT in RNA was associated with the different phenotypes were not mechanistically investigated in patients. 7. What are recent advances in the genetics of serotonin receptors and SERT in IBS or affective disorders in IBS? This topic has been extensively reviewed elsewhere (35). After several individual studies of SERT (SLC6A4) genetics and IBS, a meta-analysis
