NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: serotonin, ibs, patients, sert, manuscript, author, author manuscript, d-ibs, plasma, nih-pa, increased, nih-pa author, colonic, genotype, levels


receptors and SERT in IBS or affective disorders in IBS? This topic has been extensively reviewed elsewhere (35). After several individual studies of SERT (SLC6A4) genetics and IBS, a meta-analysis (36) concluded that, in combined or separated groups of Caucasian and Asian cohorts, there was not a significant odds ratio for any specific genotype of 5-HTTLPR (the polymorphism is the promoter for the gene for SLC6A4) and IBS, confirming the original and largest individual studies in Caucasian (37) and Asian patients (38). On the other hand, there is some evidence that 5-HTTLPR genotype modifies the risk for depressive episodes in patients with IBS (39), and another study suggested that 5-HTTLPR genotype in combination with α2C-Del (322–325), which is a deletion in the α2-adrenergic receptor gene, is associated with high somatic symptom scores in IBS (37). The significance of these findings is unclear. It is worth noting that the prevalence of the α2C-Del (322–325) genotype was low (<10%) in Caucasians, and this finding has not yet been replicated. Studies of the association between motor and sensory functions and carrying the 5-HTTLPR genotype variation have been recently explored in work from our laboratory based on studies conducted in healthy controls and patients with functional gastrointestinal disorders. Specifically, small bowel and colonic transit did not differ significantly when subjects were stratified for LL genotype versus the combined group that carries the short allele [LS or SS genotype (40)]. On the other hand, there was a significant association between 5-HTTLPR LS/ SS genotype and increased rectal compliance and increased pain ratings, particularly at sub- noxious levels of distensions. These data suggest that the endophenotype of visceral hypersensitivity in IBS may be partly related to 5-HTTLPR. Interestingly, the increased pain sensation is not attributable to abnormal rectal compliance in association with the genotype, since rectal compliance was actually higher with the LS/SS genotype (41). A first report documents the association of D-IBS with a functional variant in the microRNA-510 (miR-510) target site of the 5-HT receptor type 3E gene. The authors investigated the untranslated regions (UTRs) of the 5-HT receptor type 3 subunit genes, HTR3A and HTR3E. The novel HTR3E 3'UTR variant c.*76G>A (rs62625044) was associated with female D-IBS compared to controls in patients from United Kingdom, and the finding was replicated in patients from Germany. This genetic variation appears to be functionally relevant since, in a reporter assay, c.*76G>A affected binding of miR-510 to
