NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: serotonin, ibs, patients, sert, manuscript, author, author manuscript, d-ibs, plasma, nih-pa, increased, nih-pa author, colonic, genotype, levels


United Kingdom, and the finding was replicated in patients from Germany. This genetic variation appears to be functionally relevant since, in a reporter assay, c.*76G>A affected binding of miR-510 to the HTR3E 3'UTR and caused elevated luciferase expression. HTR3E and miR-510 co-localize in enterocytes of the gut epithelium. This suggests that microRNA related expression regulates a 5-HT receptor gene with a cis-regulatory variant affecting this regulation and it appears to be associated with female D-IBS (42). These highly interesting findings are worthy of further study. 8. Are there examples of pharmacogenetics related to serotonergic agents? Two complementary studies have been published that suggest 5-HTTLPR genetic polymorphisms influence the efficacy of serotonergic treatments. Thus, efficacy of alosetron Curr Opin Endocrinol Diabetes Obes. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 February 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript in D-IBS patients with L/L genotype was associated with greater effect on colonic transit than S/S and S/L genotypes (43). The 5-HTTLPR genetic polymorphisms also influenced the efficacy of tegaserod treatment in C-IBS patients on clinical efficacy with the L/L genotype being associated with poorer response than S/S and S/L genotypes (44). Since the short allele results in reduced SERT synthesis, the allele reduces reuptake of serotonin, and this could hypothetically result in more competition (and less efficacy) for alosetron and more 5-HT stimulation of post-synaptic 5-HT or 5- HT receptors (e.g., on cholinergic neurons) resulting in greater efficacy with the 5-HT 4 4 agonist, tegaserod. 9. Are there new treatments involving novel serotonergic agents? Several new 5-HT agonists that are prokinetic, especially in the colon, deserve further study. The attraction to these agents is that their action on 5-HT receptors is more specific than with older agents. These agents include prucalopride (Figure 2), ATI-7505 and TD-5108 (45–47). An in vitro study of peristaltic responses suggested that effects of 5-HT agonists could be enhanced by combination with an opiate antagonist (48); however, a human study showed that oral naltrexone (μ and δ antagonist) does not enhance tegaserod (5-HT agonist)-induced acceleration of colonic transit (49). 5-HT antagonists are efficacious in the treatment of D-IBS. A recent meta-analysis 3 demonstrated that both agents, alosetron and cilansetron, were efficacious in D-IBS patients and in both genders (50). Another meta-analysis updated the information about alosetron and reached the same conclusions (51). A new 5-HT antagonist, ramosetron, is in development and demonstrates the typical efficacy over placebo
