NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: serotonin, ibs, patients, sert, manuscript, author, author manuscript, d-ibs, plasma, nih-pa, increased, nih-pa author, colonic, genotype, levels


genders (50). Another meta-analysis updated the information about alosetron and reached the same conclusions (51). A new 5-HT antagonist, ramosetron, is in development and demonstrates the typical efficacy over placebo at the 5 and 10 µg doses, but not at the 1 µg dose (52). The big question is whether these 5-HT antagonists and 5-HT agonists will be approved for 3 4 more widespread use, given the restricted access approval for alosetron, lack of approval of cilansetron, and withdrawal of tegaserod. It is still unclear whether 5-HT antagonists really cause ischemic colitis, given the lack of support for the mechanisms proposed for the development of ischemic colitis (53) and the lack of effect of alosetron on mesenteric flow in an experimental animal model (54). On the other hand, there is little doubt that the dose of 5- HT antagonist has to be carefully titrated and monitored to avoid development of constipation, since these agents have a significant benefit on diarrhea and urgency in IBS and the retardation of colonic transit demonstrated with alosetron (55). CONCLUSION Serotonin and serotonergic agents will continue to be topical and are likely to play a pivotal role in the mechanisms and treatment of gastrointestinal diseases, particularly the lower functional gastrointestinal disorders. In the future, it is anticipated that the interaction with other neurotransmitters and inflammation will be a subject of research as the role of 5-HT in the biology and potential for treatment of these and other diseases is clarified. Acknowledgments Dr. Camilleri is funded in part by grants RO1 DK-54681, RO1 DK-67071 and K24 DK-02638 from National Institutes of Health. I thank Mrs. Cindy Stanislav for excellent secretarial assistance. Curr Opin Endocrinol Diabetes Obes. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 February 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript
