Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


Incidence and Distribution The annual incidence of thyroid cancer varies considerably in different registries, ranging from 1.2-2.6 per 100,000 individuals in men and from 2.0-3.8 per 100,000 in women (106,107). It is particularly elevated in Iceland and Hawaii, being nearly two times higher than in North European countries, Canada and the USA. In Hawaii, the incidence rate of thyroid cancer in each ethnic group is higher than that registered in their country of origin (108), and it is particularly common among Chinese males and Filipino females. Most of the differences are probably due to ethnic or environ¬mental factors (such as spontaneous background radiation) or dietary habits (109), but different standards of medical expertise and health care may also play a role in the efﬁciency of cancer detection. The American Cancer Society indicated incidence in the USA of nearly 10/100,000 population in 2003. The reported incidence has been increasing at more than 5%/yr for a decade. In sharp contrast with these data concerning the incidence of clinical thyroid cancer, is the prevalence found in autopsy series or screening programs. Autopsy studies indicate a surprising frequency ranging from 0.01 to over 2.0% (110,111).A survey of consecutive autopsies at Grace-New Haven Hospital found 2.7% of thyroids to harbour unsuspected thyroid cancer (111). Another 2.7% had discrete benign adenomas, and nearly half showed nodularity. The high prevalence may be attributed to careful examination of the gland, but probably also reﬂects a highly selected group of older patients dying in a hospital. Up to 6% of thyroid glands in autopsied adults in the United States, and over 20% in Japan, also harbour microscopically detectable foci of thyroid carcinoma, which are believed to be of no biologic signiﬁcance. Altogether autopsy studies suggest that thyroid cancer is in many instances not diagnosed dur¬ing life or is not the immediate cause of death. Both suggestions are in agreement with the rather leisurely growth of the majority of thyroid tumors, especially the frequent small papillary types. The annual mortality from thyroid cancer in 2003 was 5 per million for men and 6 per million for women (112). The discrepancy between incidence and mortality reﬂects the good prognosis for most thyroid cancers. Recent statistics suggest about 6 deaths /million in the USA. A classiﬁcation of thyroid tumors is given in Table 18-1. Table 18-1 Neoplasms of the Thyroid(Adapted, and Revised, from WHO Classification) 12 I. I. Adenomas (fig.18-1, below) A.
