Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


the USA. A classiﬁcation of thyroid tumors is given in Table 18-1. Table 18-1 Neoplasms of the Thyroid(Adapted, and Revised, from WHO Classification) 12 I. I. Adenomas (fig.18-1, below) A. Follicular 1. Colloid variant 2. Embryonal 3. Fetal 4. Hurthle cell variant B. Papillary (probably malignant) C. Teratoma II. Malignant Tumors A. Differentiated 1. Papillary adenocarcinoma 1. Pure papillary adenocarcinoma 2. Follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma 3. Other variants: tall cell, columnar cell, oxyphyl, solid sclerosing 2. Follicular adenocarcinomas (variants: Hurthle cell carcinoma or oxyphyl carcinoma, clear-cell carcinoma, insular carcinoma) 1. Minimally invasive 2. Extensively invasive B. Medullary carcinoma C. Undifferentiated 1. Giant cell 2. Carcinosarcoma D. Miscellaneous 1. Lymphoma, sarcoma 2. Squamous cell epidermoid carcinoma 3. Fibrosarcoma 4. Mucoepithelial carcinoma 5. Metastatic tumor Thyroid tumors are rare in children and increase in frequency in each decade. Carcinomas are two-three times as frequent in women as in men. In the past, it was generally believed that thyroid tumors were more frequent in areas of endemic goiter, and reports from Colombia and Austria support this association (113) (see Chapter 11). More recent studies suggest that in iodine deﬁcient countries the number of nodules is increased and, as a consequence, also the number of thyroid cancers is increased (114). Surveys conducted in the United States found no relation between usual geographic residence and incidence of thyroid cancer. ETIOLOGY Most, if not all, thyroid adenomas are monoclonal, as, presumably, are most carcino¬mas (115). Colloid nodules may be either mono-or poly-clonal. Thus tumors represent the persistent growth of the progeny of one cell which has somehow escaped the mechanisms which maintain normal cell division at about once each 8.5 years (116). The process of oncogenesis is conceived to be a series of events induced by genetic and environmental factors which alter growth control. At the phenomenologic level these factors may be considered as "initiators" and "promoters". Initiators include such agents as chemicals and irradiation which induce tumors, and promoters are agents such as phenobarbital, which in rats augments TSH secretion and radically increases tumor development. In man x-ray treatment is the sole known initiator, and other than elevated TSH, no promoters are known. Compounds such as phenobarbi¬tal, dilantin and PCBs, which are known thyroid tumor promoters in animals through liver microsomal hormone degrading enzyme induction leading to increased thyroid hormone metabolism, do not appear to have a detectable adverse effect in man in
