Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


thyroid tumor promoters in animals through liver microsomal hormone degrading enzyme induction leading to increased thyroid hormone metabolism, do not appear to have a detectable adverse effect in man in doses usually employed (117). Oncogenes (Fig. 18-11) We now begin to understand oncogenesis in more details. More than 30 "oncogenes" have been recognized in the human genome. The most likely genetic events in thyroid cancer are reported in Fig. 18-11. These genes, normally silent, can be¬come activated by chromosomal translocations, deletions, or mutations, and then can "transform" normal cells into a condition of uncontrolled growth. Most onco¬genes appear to be closely related to normal growth factors, genes that control cell division, or to hormone receptors. In general, these genes, when turned on, promote cell growth and cell division and depress differentiation. Typically activation of one such gene may not be enough to produce malignancy, but if accompanied by ex¬pression of another oncogene, or if gene mutation or reduplication occurs, the cell may progress toward a malignant potential. Information on expression of oncogenes in human thyroid tissue is rapidly accumulating. Expression of c-myc is stimulated in normal thyroid cells by TSH, and the proto-oncogene is expressed in adenomas and carcinomas. Activating mutations of h-ras at codons 12, 13, and 61, and over expression of h-ras, are found in adenomas and carcinomas, but h-ras mutations are also found in nodular goiter tissue (118), suggesting that h-ras mutations could be an early event in oncogenesis (119). Other studies, it should be noted, ﬁnd ras mutations uncommon (120). Figure 18-11 Possible role of oncogene activation, receptor or G-protein mutation, or tumor repressor gene alteration in the induction of thyroid carcinoma. Santoro and co-workers (121) cloned an oncogene which is frequently and speciﬁcally expressed in papillary thyroid cancers. This oncogene is found on chromosome 10 and involves an intrachromosomal rearrangement of the tyrosine kinase domain of the ret oncogene so that it is attached to one of three different promoters, produc¬ing retPTC-1, retPTC-2, and retPTC-3. As a mean, one of these translocation products is found in about 20% of PTC, although in different series a large variation is observed (20-70%). This rearrangement leads to constitutive expression of the oncogene. It has been shown that intra-thyroidal expression of the ret/PTC1 oncogene can induce thyroid cancer (122). BRAF mutations, in the form of point mutations, are the most frequent alterations in papillary carcinoma, and undifferentiated cancers that
