Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


expression of the ret/PTC1 oncogene can induce thyroid cancer (122). BRAF mutations, in the form of point mutations, are the most frequent alterations in papillary carcinoma, and undifferentiated cancers that have arisen from papillary tumors (123), approaching 40% of all PTCs (124). Recently a mutational change has been associated with follicular cancers. In 5 of 8 follicular cancers, Kroll et al (125) found translocation of the DNA binding domain of PAX8 to domains A-F of the peroxisome proliferator-activater receptor (PPAR) gamma1 gene. The fusion oncogene is able to transform thyrocytes, so appears to be able to produce malignancies (126). Although initially thought to be exclusively present in follicular cancers, it is now known to be present in follicular adenomas as well (127). Mutation or deletion of the p53 tumor suppressor gene is found in some differentiated thyroid cancers, and many undifferentiated cancers, suggesting that this genetic deletion may be one of the ﬁnal steps leading to anaplastic cancer growth. A proliferation of studies in this ﬁeld has provided many clues to thyroid tumorigenesis. Simian virus 40-like sequences are found in many thyroid cancers, as well as other cancers, and the Tag gene sequence found is known to be oncogenic in animal models (128). Mutated and non-functional thyroid hormone receptors are recognized in up to 90% of PTC by one author, suggesting a role in oncogenesis, but other workers ﬁnd these mutations to be rare (129,130). The tumor suppressor gene TSG101 is over-expressed in most PTCs (131). Overexpression of many other genes -galectin-3, Thymosin beta-10,hTERT, CD97, CD26, VEGF-has been detected, but of course a question always is whether these changes represent the cause or the result of oncogenesis. Mutations in the proteins involved in the normal TSH-receptor-G protein-adenyl¬cyclase-kinase signal transduction pathway also play a role in tumor formation. Activating TSH receptor mutations have been found by Parma and co-workers (132) to be the cause of most hyperfunctional nodules, and are now known to be common in "hot" nodules in patients with multi-nodular goiter.. These mutations involve the extracellular loops of the transmembrane domain and the transmembrane segments, and are proven to induce hyperfunction by transfection studies. However these mutations are not associated with cancer formation. Mutations of the stimulatory GTP binding protein subunit are also present in some patients with hyperfunctioning thyroid adenomas (133). TSH-R mutations are, however, unusual in thyroid cancer (134), (excepting hyperfunctional adenomas). TSH-R expression tends to be
