Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


protein subunit are also present in some patients with hyperfunctioning thyroid adenomas (133). TSH-R mutations are, however, unusual in thyroid cancer (134), (excepting hyperfunctional adenomas). TSH-R expression tends to be lost as cancers de-differentiate, and persistence of expression is associated with a better prognosis (135). In addition to positive genetic factors, oncogenesis frequently involves loss of tumor suppressor genes. This has been proven in hereditary retinoblastoma. These genes are normally present on both sets (maternal and paternal) of chromosomes. In retinoblastoma the inherited lack of one suppressor (RB) gene does not cause disease, but if a genetic event (deletion, recombination, mutation, etc.) causes failure of expression of the second allele, cancer ensues. The presence of tumor-speciﬁc suppressor genes is often detected because of lack of heterozygosity of chromosomal markers associated with deletions of segments of genetic material. Evidence for characteristic chromosomal abnormalities within tumor cells may lead to recognition of a tumor suppressor gene. Deletions of the tumor suppressor genes, p53 and the RB gene, have been detected in differentiated and undifferentiated thyroid cancer (136). Many chromosomal rearrangements are found in Hurthle cell tumors, and correlate with tumor recurrence (137). Ret oncogene and Medullary Thyroid Cancer Studies on patients with MENI and MEN II indicated linkage to chromosomes 11 (138) and 10, respectively. Subsequent studies demonstrated that the ret oncogene is present at 10q11.2. Germline mutations have been detected in this oncogene in all patients with MEN II and MEN III (or IIB), and familial MTC (139). RET is a cell-membrane receptor of the growth factor family, with tyrosine kinase function. In up to 97% of patients with MenIIA, mutations are found in codons 609,611,618, 620, and 630 in exons 10 and 11. These all involve substitutions of other aminoacids for cysteine, and are thought to cause activation of the gene by aberrant disulphide bonding causing dimerization. Similar changes are seen in Familial MTC. In patients with the MENIIB syndrome, almost all,if not all, mutations involve an amino acid substitution of threonine for methionine at codon (918) in exon 16, and are thought to induce a change in substrate phosphorylation. Somatic mutations in ret are present in up to half of patients with sporadic MTC and are almost always in codon 918 (140,141). Gene mutations in this codon are thought to imply a poor prognosis. Familial tumors Apparent familial thyroid cancer development has been reported by several clinicians, including cases
