Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


codon 918 (140,141). Gene mutations in this codon are thought to imply a poor prognosis. Familial tumors Apparent familial thyroid cancer development has been reported by several clinicians, including cases which seem to show a dominant pattern of inheritance (142,143). Thyroid carcinomas occur rarely as part of several familial syndromes, which may involve hereditable loss of tumor suppressor genes. Papillary cancer can occur as an independent familial syndrome in 5-10% of patienst in different series. Whether the recurrence of PTC represents a true familial aggregation or rather the fortuitous association of PTC in the same family, is still a matter of discussion. However, recent evidence seem to support the existence of a true familial PTC syndrome based on the demonstration that familial PTC display the features of “genetic anticipation” (the disease recurs at an earlier age and at an higher aggressiveness in the 2nd generation compared to the first one) typical of familial diseases (144). In addition, a germline alteration consisting in short telomeres has been demonstrated in familial cases of PTC (145,146), which may be responsible for genomic instability leading eventually to thyroid cancer. Other, more rare forms of familial thyroid tumors are those associated with complex hereditable diseases. Cowden’s disease is a familial syndrome which includes a variety of hamartomas, multinodular goiter, and carcinomas of several tissues including breast, colon, lung, and thyroid, especially in women (147). Thyroid carcinoma also co-occurs in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis of the colon (148), and can occur in the absence of bi-allelic inactivation of the APC gene. Differentiated thyroid carcinoma is reported to co-occur with chemodactomas of the carotid body, which can be inherited in a familial autosomal dominant form (149). Thyroid carcinoma is also associated with Gardner’s syndrome (150) and Carney’s Syndrome (151). Papillary thyroid carcinoma has been associated with papillary renal neoplasia in a distinct hereditable tumor syndrome. Some patients in the families also have nodular thyroid disease. The predisposing gene has been chromosome 1q21 (152). These syndromes are listed in table 18.5 . Table 18.5 RARE SYNDROMES WITH HEREDITABLE THYROID TUMORS (NR9) View in own window Syndrome Clinical Presentation Thyroid Pathology Gene and Location Familial Papillary Carcinoma associated with papillary renal ca- Papillary cancer locus on 1q21 Familial non-medullary thyroid ca PTC locus at 2q21 Thyroid tumors with oxyphilia Benign nodules and PTC locus at 19p13.2 PTC without Oxyphilia PTC Locus at 19p13 Familial Polyposis Large intestine polyps
