Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


non-medullary thyroid ca PTC locus at 2q21 Thyroid tumors with oxyphilia Benign nodules and PTC locus at 19p13.2 PTC without Oxyphilia PTC Locus at 19p13 Familial Polyposis Large intestine polyps and other GI tumors Papillary cancer APC on 5q21 Gardner’s Syndrome Small and large intestine polyps, osteomas, fibromas, lipomas Papillary cancer APC on 5q21 Turcot’s Syndrome Large intestine polypsBrain tumors Papillary cancer APC on 5q21 Cowden’s Disease Multiple hamartomas and breast tumors Follicular adenoma and cancer Unknown Carney Complex Pigmented adrenal nodules, pituitary adenomas, spotty skin pigmentation, myxomas Thyroid adenomas PRKAR1A located on 17q23-q24, while Carney complex type 2 has been mapped to chromosome 2p16. Experimental Thyroid Tumor Formation Thyroid tumors have been induced experimentally in rodents by several procedures having as their common denominator a prolonged increase in pituitary thyrotropin production and thyroid stimulation. Goitrogenic drugs, if administered to animals for a prolonged period, can induce tumors, as numerous investigators (153) have demonstrated. These tumors are typically papillary adeno-carcinomas, and are associated with a diffuse hyperplasia of the thyroid gland. Old rats of some strains appear to develop thyroid cancers spontaneously Roentgen irradiation of the thyroid and administration of 131I have both induced carcinomas in the experimental animal (154). A combination of 131I injury to the thyroid cell and prolonged administration of a goitrogen is especially likely to produce carcinomas, as shown by Doniach (155). Cell metabolism is altered by 131I, even when small amounts are administered. In the rat, 5 µCi prevents subsequent response to a goitrogenic drug (156). With larger doses the colloid is sparse, the follicles are variable in size, and large eosinophilic acinar cells appear. Very large doses of 131I (producing several thousand rads) to the rat thyroid radically alter cell metabolism, liberate TG within 1 or 2 weeks, and subsequently reduce the efﬁciency of hormone synthesis. 131I iodine irradiation in rats in doses so low as not to alter hormone biosynthesis immediately inhibits DNA synthesis and cell replication, as shown by a failure to respond to subsequent goitrogenic challenge. The cells also have a shortened life span. Similar inhibition of hyperplasia follows x-irradiation to the thyroid. Therapeutic doses of 131I to patients also induce atypical nuclei, which may remain for many years (157). The doses of RAI needed to produce neoplastic change in the thyroid glands of animals closely parallel those given in the treatment of thyrotoxicosis in humans. The morphologic changes are intensiﬁed
