Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


doses of RAI needed to produce neoplastic change in the thyroid glands of animals closely parallel those given in the treatment of thyrotoxicosis in humans. The morphologic changes are intensiﬁed by a goitrogenic stimulus and reduced by thyroid hormone treatment. The effects of radiation may be twofold. The nuclear morphologic changes may derive from an abnormality in cell division or replication of nucleic acids, which may predispose to carcinomatous change. Also, the damaged cell produces less thyroid hormone, and thereby ultimately comes under intense TSH stimulation, as in experiments with goitrogens. Thus, it seems certain that chronic TSH stimulation in animals is associated with the evolution of a neoplasm, especially if it is combined with radiation damage to the cell nuclei. Experimental thyroid tumors induced by 131I are initially TSH dependent. At ﬁrst, they can be transplanted successfully only into thyroidectomized animals that are producing much TSH. After serial passages through several generations, the tumors may become autonomous and will then grow in a normal host. Partial or complete dependence on TSH is also observed in some human papillary and follicular tumors. External Radiation and Thyroid Cancer Duffy and Fitzgerald (158) ﬁrst made the important observation that a high proportion of children with thyroid carcinoma had received therapeutic x-irradiation to the upper mediastinum or neck during childhood for control of benign lesions such as enlarged thymus, tonsils, or adenoids. Their ﬁnding has been amply conﬁrmed (159-166). Winship and Rosvoll (167) studied 562 children with thyroid carcinoma from all parts of the world. Among those for whom adequate historical data were available, 80% had a history of prior x-ray treatment. This relationship is not so obvious for carcinomas developing after age 35. Signiﬁcant x-irradiation to the head, neck, and chest in childhood increases the frequency of thyroid cancer by 100-fold (168), and the incidence is proportional to the dose, reaching at least 1.7% at 500 rads, or 5.5 cases per million exposed persons per rad each year (Fig. 18-6). Our own data dislose a 7% incidence by 30 years after irradiation (163). The latent period averages 10 -20 years, but tumors occur even after 20-40 years (Fig. 18-7). There appears to be no true threshold, since even doses as low as 9 rads increase the incidence of cancer (160). It is in fact probable that “natural” background radiation may produce many of the spontaneous tumors (169). There is a direct dose-response
