Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


9 rads increase the incidence of cancer (160). It is in fact probable that “natural” background radiation may produce many of the spontaneous tumors (169). There is a direct dose-response relationship through 1,000 rads (168). Higher doses of irradiation also induce tumors, and the true dose-response curve in the range 1,000 -5,000 rads in humans is not known. Benign nodules occur with nearly 10 times the frequency of cancers. Interestingly, the type of tumor induced is not different from those occurring spontaneously, and there is no relation between dose and latent period. For some reason, women are more prone to develop radiation-induced tumors than men, and both ethnic and familial factors may inﬂuence tumor development (170). Figure 18-6 Estimated dose response for thyroid cancer in humans from external irradiation. The incidence of carcinomas each year is plotted against the original thyroid irradiation dose. (From Maxon H, Thomas SR, Saenger EL, Buncher ER, and Kereiakes JG. American J Med, 63:967, 1977) Figure 18-7 Distribution of patients with a history of irradiation to the head and neck, according to the time after irradiation at which they were examined. The majority of patients were seen 20 - 35 years after irradiation, but the incidence of tumors peaked 5 - 10 years earlier. Tumors continued to occur through 40 years after irradiation, and it is not clear that there is a finite latency period. Probably any x-ray exposure of the thyroid has some carcinogenic potential, although the risk may decrease with age. Adults were extensively treated by x-irradiation for Graves’disease from 1930 to 1950. An increased incidence of carcinoma has been reported in these patients (171). A signiﬁcant incidence of thyroid neoplasia was observed in patients who received x-ray therapy for thyroid disease (172). These patients were treated at ages up to 34, received 500-1,500 rads, and developed tumors 10-27 years after treatment. In a study of survivors of the atomic blasts at Nagasaki and Hiroshima, an increased incidence of thyroid cancer was found among persons who had received large amounts of radiation (173). Thus, the thyroid of the adult is sensitive to the carcinogenic action of x-rays, although not so sensitive as that of the child. Radiation-associated tumors of the thyroid continue to occur, although x-ray treatment of thymic enlargement and tonsillar or adenoid hypertrophy has been discontinued since 1959. A recent analysis of 1787 patients treated with X-ray for Hodgkin’s disease found
