Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


occur, although x-ray treatment of thymic enlargement and tonsillar or adenoid hypertrophy has been discontinued since 1959. A recent analysis of 1787 patients treated with X-ray for Hodgkin’s disease found 1.7% to have thyroid cancer (174). The most dramatic and terrifying data emerged from the area around Chernobyl, where thousands of people of all ages received large doses of radiation from external fallout and ingested isotopes, especially short-lived isotopes of iodine. In this epidemic the risk of thyroid cancer is highest among children who were under 9 years and especially under 5 years old at the time of the Chernobyl explosion, and presumably ingested iodide via milk from cows grazing on contaminated forage. The latent period in these children is amazingly short (6 to 7 years), the tumors tend to be relatively aggressive, and are frequently associated with thyroid autoimmunity (175). Radiation-associated tumors are generally found among younger patients. They are rarely undifferentiated, but some have been fatal. In a review of x-ray associated thyroid tumors at the University of Chicago Thyroid Clinic (163), the latent period among children treated predominantly in adolescence for tonsillar enlargement or acne averaged 20 years. It appears that the peak incidence of lesions is at 10 -25 years after exposure (Fig. 18-7, above), and it is probable that the occurrence of new cancers decreases over time. Among 100 consecutive patients seen in 1973 and 1974, only because they knew of prior radiation exposure, 15% had lesions suggestive of tumor and 7% had cancer proven at operation (162). Favus et al. (176) found a similar incidence of cancer (60/1056) in irradiated patients called back for evaluation. Although one case-controlled study suggests a lack of effect of radiation, the evidence, reviewed by Maxon et al (168), clearly conﬁrms the importance of this problem. Fig 18-8 The size of radiation associated and non-radiation associated tumors was statistically non-different. Based on these facts, it has been accepted by most physicians in the ﬁeld that patients with a history of thyroid irradiation (over 20 rads, and certainly 50 rads) should be located and advised to have an assessment. This evaluation should consist at least of a physical examination and thyroid ultrasound. If one or more clear-cut nodules is found, then FNAC should be performed followed by surgical intervention in case of malignant result. Benign nodules are also found in these glands, with an incidence much higher than that of
