Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


then FNAC should be performed followed by surgical intervention in case of malignant result. Benign nodules are also found in these glands, with an incidence much higher than that of cancers. Serum TG levels tend to be elevated in irradiated patients, and antithyroid antibodies are more commonly present, but these tests are not of diagnostic value. When excised these glands often show multiple benign as well as malignant nodules as well as areas of ﬁbrosis and hyperplasia (177). M.P., 52-Year-Old-Woman: Thyroid Radiation and Multiple Gland Abnormalities This patient was ﬁrst seen with a history of irradiation for acne during her teens. She subsequently developed telangiectasia of the skin of her face. The month before the examination, she had observed a lump on the right side of the neck. Examination disclosed a 1-cm nodule in the right lobe of the thyroid and some irregularity of the left lobe. Thyroid scintiscan showed a cold nodule of the lower pole of the right lobe. Ultrasound examination of the right lobe identiﬁed a partially cystic nodule and a small cystic structure of the left. The FTI was slightly elevated at 10.9. RAIU was above normal. Thyroid antibodies were not present. Thyroid needle aspiration showed cells indicative of malignancy. Routine blood tests disclosed alkaline phosphatase of 107 units (normal, 25-100 units), calcium 10.9 and 11.5 mg/dl (normal, 8.5-10.2 mg/dl), and phosphate 2.7 ng/dl. Repeated assay of FTI again demonstrated an elevated value of 15 (normal = 6-10.5). The level of parathyroid hormone was 0.65 ng/ml (with a coincident calcium level of 11.5 mg/dl), values indicative of primary hyperparathyroidism. The patient was treated with potassium iodide for 1 week and admitted for ex¬ploratory surgery. A right upper para-thyroid adenoma weighing 908 mg was found. The adenoma showed areas of cystic degeneration and ﬁbrosis. The thyroid gland was multinodular and was suspicious on frozen section for follicular carcinoma. There was extensive ﬁbrosis around and adherent to the thyroid gland.A near-total thyroidectomy was performed. The gland weighed 17 g. Multiple nodules in the gland measured 1-18 mm in diameter. An 18-mm nodule in the right lobe was iden¬tiﬁed as follicular carcinoma. There were, in addition, multiple follicular adenomas and multiple Hurthle cell tumors, focal hyperplasia, and colloid nodules in the right and left lobe. Postoperatively the patient received thyroid hormone. When seen 1 month after surgery, her calcium level was 9.4 mg/dl, phosphorus 3.5 mg/dl, and parathyroid hormone
