Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


in the right and left lobe. Postoperatively the patient received thyroid hormone. When seen 1 month after surgery, her calcium level was 9.4 mg/dl, phosphorus 3.5 mg/dl, and parathyroid hormone 0.28 ng/ml (normal). The FTI was 9.2 while taking 0.15 mg L-T4. This patient developed a cystic parathyroid adenoma with hyperparathyroidism, multiple adenomas of the thyroid, follicular carcinoma, and multiple functioning adenomas that produced thyrotoxicosis. All of these tumors occurred concurrently in a gland showing changes typical of prior radiation exposure. D.C., 19-Year-Old-Girl: Development of Thyroid Carcinoma, After X-Ray Therapy, While Receiving Thyroid Hormone At age 10 the patient had respiratory distress and was found to have a superior-anterior mediastinal mass. There was left cervical lymphadenopathy and bilateral supraclavicular lymphadenopathy. Biopsy revealed Hodgkin’s disease of the nodular sclerosing variety. The result of staging laparotomy was negative. She was treated with 4,000 rads to a neck mantle ﬁeld. One year later the results of thyroid function tests were normal, but two years after x-ray treatment the FTI was 4.1 and the TSH level was 24 µU/ml. Thyroid hormone replacement therapy was begun, and the patient was carefully monitored over sub¬sequent years with periodic FTI and TSH determinations. Six years after irradiation a2-cm nodule was noted in the left lobe of the thyroid. This nodule was found to be cold on 123-I scan. Fine needle aspiration revealed cells suggestive of malignancy. At surgery a papillary adenocarcinoma with capsular and vascular invasion was found, and a near-total thyroidectomy was performed. Postoperatively residual thy¬roid tissue was ablated by administration of 30mCi131I.The skeletal survey ﬁndings were negative; chest x-ray ﬁlms and bone ﬁlms were normal. She has remained free of evidence of thyroid carcinoma or Hodgkin’s disease in the subsequent three years. This history demonstrates the occurrence of thyroid carcinoma, in a gland heavily irradiated during therapy for Hodgkin’s disease, while the patient was taking ade¬quate replacement doses of thyroid hormone. Possibly the period of X-ray induced hypothyroidism played a role in tumor induction. The tumor developed within six years of the radiation therapy. Fortunately, the tumor was not metastatic and has presumably been eradicated by surgery and RAI ablation of residual tissue. In our series, postradiation carcinomas averaged 1.7 cm in size (Fig. 18-8), and 14% were below 0.5 cm. The size distribution was similar to that of non-X-ray-associated tumors. They were more frequently multicentric than those in non irradiated glands and as aggressive,
