Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


and 14% were below 0.5 cm. The size distribution was similar to that of non-X-ray-associated tumors. They were more frequently multicentric than those in non irradiated glands and as aggressive, or more so, in behavior than tumors arising without known irradiation (178). The tumors are mainly papillary or follicular, but an occasional anaplastic cancer is also found.In examining patients, it should be remembered that benign and malignant salivary gland neoplasms, neuromas, parathyroid adenomas (179), laryngeal cancer, skin malignancies, and breast cancer also occur with undue frequency in this group of patients. Thyroid nodularity and cancer also occur as a sequela of nuclear fallout. In the accident at Rongelap in the Marshall Islands (180), individuals received 200-1,400 rads. The incidence of nodularity was 40%, and nearly 6% proved to have cancer. Children in Utah exposed to small amounts of fallout from atomic bomb testing have been proven to develope nodules and possibly carcinomas. Lack of Association of 131I Treatment and Thyroid Carcinoma Iodine-131 treatment induces abnormalities in the thyroid gland that persist for many years (181). Giant nuclei, increased mitotic activity, hyperchromatic nuclei, and other abnormalities appear. It seems reasonable that these nuclear changes could lead to carcinomatous degeneration. Chromosomal damage in circulating lymphocytes has also been reported after 131I administration (182). Patients have developed thyroid nodules or tumors after 131I therapy for Graves’ disease; it has been suggested, but not proved, that the highest incidence has been among those treated during childhood. Some of the lesions found in 131I-treated children may actually have been carcinomas, but there has been debate (183) among the various pathologists who examined the specimens. Several reports of isolated instances of cancer after 131I treat¬ment of adults for Graves’ disease have appeared, but the large United States Public Health Service cooperative study failed to show an increased risk in this group (184-186). Studies by Holm et al (186) also failed to show an increase in cancer incidence among persons given 131-I either for diagnosis or for therapy for thyrotoxicosis. These patients were adults, and usually in the 40-60-year age group. Also, very large radiation doses may be less carcinogenic than small ones, and in half or more of these patients, the thyroid has been totally destroyed. Lastly, the follow-up time averages 8-13 years, which may be too soon to see radiation-induced neoplasia. Thus the evidence is reassuring but the question cannot be considered closed. Thyroid Hyperplasia
