Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


Lastly, the follow-up time averages 8-13 years, which may be too soon to see radiation-induced neoplasia. Thus the evidence is reassuring but the question cannot be considered closed. Thyroid Hyperplasia and Cancer Chronic stimulation of the thyroid with TSH probably can lead to carcinogenesis in humans, as it can in animals. There are several reports of intensely hyperplastic congenital goiters, untreated for long periods, in which carcinomas have ﬁnally developed (187-191). Fortunately, most patients with congenital goiter are recognized and treated with replacement thyroid hormone at sometime during early childhood, so that chronic TSH stimulation does not occur. Interestingly, activating mutations of the TSH-R, which are metabolically like chronic TSH stimulation, lead to benign and not malignant change, as described above. Relation of Cancer To Other Thyroid Disease The relationship of thyroid tumors to other thyroid disease is still debated. In the preceding section we discussed whether carcinomas arise from adenomas, occurring either singly or as a component of a multinodular gland. While this must happen rarely, it is not the ordinary course of events. In support of this view one may note, for example, that, whereas adenomas are rarely if ever papillary, approximately 80% of all thyroid carcinomas are papillary. If carcinomas arise from adenomas, one might expect that the majority would be follicular rather than papillary, and this is not the case. Also, although carcinomas, largely of the papillary type, occur in nontoxic nodular goiters with a reported frequency of 4-17% of cases, the age of diagnosis of papillary carcinomas does not follow that for nontoxic goiter (192). Papillary carcinomas occur in children and adolescents, and reach their highest frequency during the middle decades of life. Multinodular goiter, by contrast, is infrequent in childhood, but increases with each decade. The high frequency of carcinomas detected in nodular goiter appears to reﬂect the efﬁciency of selection of patients for operation on the basis of suspicious clinical ﬁndings in the gland. Although it remains unproven, it is likely that in many or most thyroid adenomas and carcinomas, one speciﬁc mutational event leads directly to the development of the speciﬁc neoplasm. Parathyroid adenomas occur in a small percentage of patients with thyroid cancer. The converse relationship may also exist; 2-11% of patients with parathyroid adenomas also have thyroid cancer (193-195). An important reason for this association is the induction of both tumors by X-ray exposure. Neoplasia and Autoimmune thyroid diseases An
