Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


patients with parathyroid adenomas also have thyroid cancer (193-195). An important reason for this association is the induction of both tumors by X-ray exposure. Neoplasia and Autoimmune thyroid diseases An increased incidence of cancer in Hashimoto’s thyroiditis has been reported, Further, focal thyroiditis may occur as an immunologic response to thyroid cancer. In most series in the past the coexistence of Hashimoto’s thyroiditis among thyroid cancer patients was between 2-4%, but the real association, particularly with microcarcinomas, is difﬁcult to be assessed because Hashimoto’s thyroiditis is rarely operated upon. Recently this issue has gained new attention in the era of FNAC, and several reports have found that when a thyroid nodule is associated with autoimmune thyroiditis, the chance of malignancy is significantly higher (9-40%) than in nodules not associated with thyroid autoimmunity (196,197). One possible explanation for this finding might be that patients with autoimmune thyroiditis tend to have higher levels of serum TSH (potential thyroid carcinogen) compared with non-autoimmune patients. Many reports on Graves’ disease stress a normal or low coincidence of cancer, but several series have reported a signiﬁcant association between Graves’ disease and thyroid cancer, ranging from 3 to 10% (198-200). However, most of these series were surgical, and the patients were selected for surgery on the basis of suspicious nodules or large goiters. In Graves’ patients treated by radioiodine, no subsequent increase in the discovery of thyroid cancer has been reported.In our review, 4 of 50 patients with thyroid cancer had coincident Graves’ disease (201). Belﬁore et al found the risk of thyroid cancer in Graves’ disease to be increased 2-3 fold (198). TSAb can stimulate thyroid cancers when Graves disease coexists, so the idea that TSAb might induce malignant change is tenable, but not proven. It also is possible, but unproven, that continued stimulation of a tumor may make it behave in a more aggressive manner (198,202). Patients with Graves disease and thyroid cancer who underwent total thyroidectomy and 131I ablation fared as well in follow-up as did patients without Graves’ disease. Micro-carcinomas The term micro-carcinoma refers to tiny carcinomas (<1 cm), usually papillary and often sclerotic. Such tumors were frequently found in autopsy studies when the thyroids were sectioned completely at 1-2 mm intervals and every abnormality was studied, or during histology of glands operated for large multinodular goiters (203,204). Nowadays, with the extensive use of thyroid ultrasound, micronodules (<1 cm) are frequently discovered
