Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


and every abnormality was studied, or during histology of glands operated for large multinodular goiters (203,204). Nowadays, with the extensive use of thyroid ultrasound, micronodules (<1 cm) are frequently discovered in the general population, and proven malignant in a significant percentage. These tumors are probably synonymous with the "occult" tumors described at autopsy, but since they are discovered during life can no longer be considered occult. The term microcarcinomas is now preferred to occult. Tiny carcinomas, usually papillary and often sclerotic, have been found in 5.7% of thyroids of adults coming to autopsy in the United States (203). This prevalence is noted only when the thyroid is sectioned completely at 1-2 mm intervals and every abnormality is studied. The tumors have a mean diameter of 2 mm, and almost all are under 5 mm. The prevalence is best known in adults (204) and may be lower in young people. Since, in some glands, collections of psammoma bodies also exist in tiny scarred areas, it is hypothesized that such lesions may spontaneously regress. Because of their small size, they are detectable only at surgical or pathologic examination of the gland. These observations, now widely accepted, have provoked much discussion. Certainly most of these tiny tumors cannot be biologically signiﬁcant, considering the low incidence of clinically recognized cancer. Most of the lesions are probably missed during routine surgical or autopsy pathologic studies. Their cause is unknown. They may be a variant of the occult sclerosing carcinomas described by Hazard, but the latter tumors are usually larger, have a predominant sclerotic component, and clearly do metastasize. It has been suggested that such lesions are in fact the cancers found after thyroid irradiation, but most likely they can explain only a small proportion of radiation-associated tumors. Most of these lesions would go undetected in a standard surgical pathologic examination, and the great majority of radiation-associated lesions are larger. In our own series, the radiation-associated le¬sions were on average 1.7 cm in diameter and only 14% were under 0.5 cm. Whether such "minimal" cancers are in fact the occasional precursors of clinically evident cancers is a moot point. It is clear that they are at present an important pathologic -but not clinical --entity. PATHOLOGY (Figures 18-9a-h) Pathologists are agreed that there are peculiar difﬁculties in the classiﬁcation and diagnosis of malignant tumors of the thyroid. The histologic changes required for diagnosis of carcinoma include absence
