Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


18-9a-h) Pathologists are agreed that there are peculiar difﬁculties in the classiﬁcation and diagnosis of malignant tumors of the thyroid. The histologic changes required for diagnosis of carcinoma include absence of a true capsule, invasion of surrounding normal tissue, invasion of blood and lymph channels, loss of normal follicular architectural arrangements, and cellular abnormalities such as an increase in the ratio of nucleus to cytoplasm, enlarged vesicular nuclei, nuclear folding, increased mitoses, and hyperchromasia of the nucleus. Recently, aneuploidy of nuclear DNA content has been added to this list. Obviously the presence of distant metastases is the most certain criterion. Most students of the disease agree that the ordinary criteria of malignancy have little prognostic value in thyroid tumors, except perhaps in the wildly growing anaplastic tumors. However, it may be noted that pathologists at the Mayo Clinic believe a histologic typing by their criteria provides signiﬁcant information on prognosis. Examples of the histologic patterns of several of these tumors are given in Figure 18-9. The papillary adenocarcinoma typically shows tumor cells around a ﬁbrovascular core and, not infrequently, areas of follicular differentiation. Papillary lesions tend to be inﬁltrative, and encapsulation is rare. Lymphocytic "reactions" are prominent. The cell nuclei have a ground-glass or "cat’s eye" appearance and intracellular inclu¬sions are common. Vascular invasion is rare. Psammoma bodies are often abundant. Multiple intraglandular foci are frequent, especially in children. Areas of lymphocyte inﬁltration, and even extensive lymphocytic thyroiditis, are common, especially in papillary tumors. Many tumors look much like follicular cancers, but have the characteristic nuclei of papillary cancers. These constitute the "follicular variant" of papillary cancer, and behave more or less as do other papillary cancers. Figure 18-9 A) Papillary carcinoma of the thyroid. The structure is made up of complex (branches on branches) fibrovascular core structures covered by crowded, overlapping, vesicular nuclei (artifact of fixation). Little colloid is visible. Such histologic foci may be encapsulated, sclerosing, invasive, or multicentric. Figure 18-9 B) Follicular variant of papillary carcinoma with more typical vesicular nuclei, and hemorrhage in follicular lumens. Figure 18-9 C) Follicular variant of papillary carcinoma with crowded nuclei showing nuclear folding and peripherally vacuolated colloid. Follicular adenocarcinomas vary from those with a deﬁnite follicular pattern to those with solid sheets of cells. The lesions are more frequently encapsulated, but capsular and blood vessel invasions are typical. The nuclei are normo-or hyper-chromated, or may be quite vesicular. One variant,
