Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


solid sheets of cells. The lesions are more frequently encapsulated, but capsular and blood vessel invasions are typical. The nuclei are normo-or hyper-chromated, or may be quite vesicular. One variant, the so-called malignant adenoma, appears to be nearly benign and can be identiﬁed as malignant only by the demonstration of invasion of vessels or capsule, or because of the presence of distant metastases, which may also be composed of normal-appearing thyroid tissue. Hurthle cell carcinomas usually grow as solid sheets of large eosinophilic granular cells with much cytoplasm, and less often with a follicular pattern. An Hurthle cell appearance can also be observed in some papillary tumors. (Figure 18-9d) Figure 18-9 D) Poorly differentiated follicular carcinoma with oxyphillic features. Medullary tumors (Fig. 18.9 f-g) have an ominous histologic pattern, with solid masses of cells with large vesicular nuclei (205). There may be considerable associated ﬁbrosis, and deposits of amyloid are a helpful diagnostic point. At the time of initial histologic examination the pathologist should recognize these tumors as entities distinct from the undifferentiated cancers, for the medullary carcinomas have a much better prognosis. Medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) is associated with amyloid deposition in the surrounding tissues. Recent studies demonstrated that full-length calcitonin is the sole constituent of amyloid in MTC (206). In the undifferentiated group of small-cell tumors, giant-cell tumors, and carcinosarcomas, or in the miscellaneous group, the histologic pattern has little resemblance to the original thyroid structure (Fig 18-9e-h). Figure 18-9 E) An anaplastic carcinoma of the thyroid with pleomorphic giant tumor cell nuclei. Figure 18-9 F) Medullary (C-cell) carcinoma of the thyroid with amyloid stroma. Figure 18-9 G) Immunohistochemical anti-calcitonin antibody stain of a medullary carcinoma showing strong red positivity. Figure 18-9 H) Large cell lymphoma of the thyroid. The general experience of pathologists has been that, in the absence of irradiation, the substrate in which thyroid tumor forms is usually normal thyroid tissue or displays the changes of multinodular goiter or adenoma in approximately the proportion found in any sampling of the general population (207). There is a slightly increased frequency of association with benign adenomas and with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (208). Lymphomas are associated with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, and there is considerable evidence that lymphoma actually evolves from a gland with thyroiditis (209). Multicentricity is a common feature of thyroid cancer, especially papillary cancer. Innumerable separate foci are sometimes found. Estimates of multicentricity range from 20 to 80%
