Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


a gland with thyroiditis (209). Multicentricity is a common feature of thyroid cancer, especially papillary cancer. Innumerable separate foci are sometimes found. Estimates of multicentricity range from 20 to 80% (210,211). Whether this phenomenon represents truly multicentric sites of origin or intrathyroidal dissemination is not clear. This multifocality is thought to be one cause of recurrences in patients treated by subtotal rather than total thyroidectomy. Both papillary and follicular tumors may appear as small (less than 1.5-cm) tumors surrounded by a densely ﬁbrotic reaction. Although it is frequently said that these "occult" (because they may be found incidentally at operation) tumors are benign, the original report by Hazard (212) and subsequent studies show that cervical lymph node metastases occur (213). Occasionally pathologic examination suggests conversion of differentiated papillary or follicular cancers into anaplastic forms or conversion of a follicular adenoma into a follicular carcinoma. An interesting aspect of thyroid tumor pathology is the frequency of metastatic tumors to the thyroid, 5% in the data of Silverberg and Vidone (214) for unselected autopsies and 24% for patients dying of metastatic malignant disease. Course of the Disease Clinical signs Most frequently the tumor is discovered accidentally by the patient or physician as a lump in the neck or may be a fortuitous ﬁnding at ultrasound of the neck. Less and less frequently, nowadays, it may appear as a gradually enlarging, painful mass with associated symptoms of hoarseness, dysphagia or dysphonia, or there may be difﬁculty in breathing. Occasionally a arrives with metastatic nodules in the neck, pulmonary symptoms from metastases, or a pathologic fracture of the spine or hip. Usually there are no symptoms of hyper-or hypothyroidism, but in very rare instances the tumor, usually metastatic follicular carcinoma, can produce enough hormone to cause hyperthyroidism (215,216). (See also Chapter 13) Upon examination of the neck, carcinoma of the thyroid characteristically appears as an asymmetrical lump in the gland. If it is still within the conﬁnes of the gland, it will move with the gland when the patient swallows and may be moveable within the gland. If it has invaded the trachea or neighboring structures, it may be ﬁxed; this is a useful sign. Lymph nodes containing metastases may be found in the supr-aclavicular triangles, in the carotid chain, along the thyroid isthmus, and rarely in the axillary nodes. A sentinel or "Delphic" node above the isthmus may be present. Although carcinoma of
