Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


supr-aclavicular triangles, in the carotid chain, along the thyroid isthmus, and rarely in the axillary nodes. A sentinel or "Delphic" node above the isthmus may be present. Although carcinoma of the thyroid is typically ﬁrm or hard, rapidly growing lesions may sometimes be soft or even ﬂuctuant. When the tumor is poorly differentiated or anaplastic, the lesions may undergo necrosis and discharge through sinuses that developed in the skin of the neck. Patients with thyroid cancer are also prone to develop other cancers, the risk being about double the average. Among these cancers is an excess incidence of leukemia, perhaps related to 131I therapy (217-219). Age at diagnosis has an important bearing on the patient’s subsequent course. The adverse effect of age on the prognosis increases gradually with each decade (220). For practical assessment purposes, it is clear that patients diagnosed before age 45 have a much better prognosis than those detected later (221). Age is also directly related to the incidence of undifferentiated tumors and to overall mortality. Pregnancy does not seem to worsen the course of established or previously treated thyroid can¬cer (222). Overall, women have a better prognosis than men with cancer (223). Other characteristics of the tumor, including (as would be expected) extraglandular extension, gross invasion of the tumor capsule, and increasing size also carry a worsened prognosis (223). Papillary Carcinoma-course of disease Papillary carcinoma has a peak incidence in the third and fourth decades (224). It occurs three times more frequently in women than in men, and accounts for 60-70% of all thyroid cancers in adults and about 70% of those found in children. The disease tends to remain localized in the thyroid gland and in time metastasizes locally to the cervical or upper mediastinal nodes. The lesions are multicentric in 20% or more of patients, especially in children. Using rigid pathologic criteria, perhaps two-thirds of predominantly papillary thyroid cancers are found to have follicular elements. The natural history of these tumors is similar to that of pure papillary lesions (225). The metastases may conform to either histologic pattern. At present, the mixed tumors are lumped together with all other papillary cancers. This tumor tends to be indolent and may exist for decades without killing the host. In a Mayo Clinic series of papillary tumors that were detected because of lymph node metastasis or found incidentally during surgery of the thyroid gland, all the patients
