Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


the host. In a Mayo Clinic series of papillary tumors that were detected because of lymph node metastasis or found incidentally during surgery of the thyroid gland, all the patients were unaffected by the tumors over several decades (224). However, in a recent series from one single institution in Italy, it is apparent that the way of presentation of papillary thyroid cancer has been changing in the last to decades compared to previous years. In particular the authors report increasing number of small tumors and less frequent lymph node metastases at presentation (226) The frequent occurrence of occult or “minimal’ incidentally found thyroid cancers, usually papillary and under 0.5 cm in size, is described above. However, the term occult has been used in a variety of ways, including reference to tumors with malignant nodes but no obvious primary, or in reference to any tumor under 1.5 cm in diameter. Mayo Clinic reports of papillary tumors under 1.5 cm in diameter, treated with conservative subtotal thyroidectomy and node dissection, have stressed their non-lethal nature, but a 1980 follow-up report on 820 patients treated by this group notes that 6 patients eventually died after spread of tumor from such "occult" primaries (227). Patients with appropriately treated Clinical Class I or II lesions have 96-100% survival even after 15-30 years. Survival lowers to 87% for Class III and 35% for Class IV lesions at 15 years. While the disease may be aggressive in children, it is distinctly less aggressive in young adults, as compared to patients over age 40 (223).Young patients tend to have small primary lesions and extensive adenopathy, but even with local invasion survival is good (228). When papillary cancer occurs in persons over the age of 45, it may show, on microscopic examination, areas of undifferentiation, and pursue a highly malignant clinical course. The lesions tend to be larger and more inﬁltrative, and to have fewer local metastases (229). It is possible that persons dying in older age actually have had their disease since youth, and that it has simply evolved into a more malignant phase (230,231). Papillary carcinoma tends to metastasize locally to lymph nodes, and occasionally produces cystic structures near the thyroid that are difﬁcult to diagnose because of the paucity of malignant tissue. In this case measurement of thyroglobulin in the fluid aspirate is the clue for the correct diagnosis. The presence of nodal metastasis correlates with
