Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


of the paucity of malignant tissue. In this case measurement of thyroglobulin in the fluid aspirate is the clue for the correct diagnosis. The presence of nodal metastasis correlates with recurrence (230-232) but has little effect on mortality in patients under age 45. In old studies, cervical adenopathy even seems to confer a protective effect on young people, but this assumption is not confirmed in present series. Indeed in patients over 45, the presence of nodes is associated with greater recurrence rates and more deaths (233,234). The tumors often metastasize elsewhere, especially to lung or bones. Papillary tumors may metastasize to the lungs and produce a few nodules, or the lung ﬁelds may have a snowﬂake appearance throughout. These tumors are amazingly well tolerated and may allow relatively normal physical activity for 10-30 years. At times, particularly in the follicular variant of papillary thyroid cancer, the pulmonary metastases are active in forming thyroid hormone, and may even function as the sole source of hormone supply after thyroidectomy. The metastases may progress gradually to obstructive and restrictive pulmonary disease. They also may develop arteriovenous shunts, with hypoxia or cyanosis. Such shunts become more prominent during pregnancy, perhaps as an effect of the increased supply of estrogens. The tall cell variant of papillary carcinoma comprises about 10% of total cases, and as noted by several authors appears to be more aggressive than other forms of the disease (235,236). . The usual net extra mortality in papillary cancer is not great when compared to that of a control population, perhaps 10-20% over 20-30 years (231,232,234). Mortality is rare in patients diagnosed before age 40, and is much greater in the patients found to be in clinical stages III and IV at initial diagnosis. About one-half of patients ultimately dying from this lesion do so because of local invasion. Frazell and Duffy (237) have noted that papillary carcinoma is not always so benign; they reported 35 patients with "invasive papillary carcinoma," which had a very malignant course. We found that risk of death from cancer was increased by extrathyroidal invasion (6 fold) or metastasis (47 fold), age over 45 years (32 fold) and size over 3 cm (6 fold). Thyroiditis, multifocality and the presence of neck nodes had no effect on disease-induced mortality. P.P. 41-Year-Old Man: Long-Term Survival with Papillary Cancer This man was ﬁrst seen at age 41. At age 14, while living
