Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


of neck nodes had no effect on disease-induced mortality. P.P. 41-Year-Old Man: Long-Term Survival with Papillary Cancer This man was ﬁrst seen at age 41. At age 14, while living in Yugoslavia, he had developed a mass in his neck. Tracheostomy was required because of dyspnea, and a biopsy of the mass was performed. A diagnosis of papillary thyroid carcinoma was made, and he was treated with radiotherapy to the neck. Because of an abnormal chest x-ray ﬁlm, presumed to be due to tuberculosis, he was given streptomycin and isoniazid for 2 months, but this therapy was discontinued when no improvement occurred. Extracts of calf thymus were injected. He was evaluated for hemoptysis at age 18, and chest x-ray ﬁlms again showed the inﬁltrates without evidence of change. The patient was not given thyroid hormone replacement therapy at any time. At age 39 he developed fatigue, substernal chest pain, occasional cough without production of sputum, and occasional hemoptysis. A thyroid scintiscan at another hospital revealed poor visualization of the thyroid and uptake of 4%, and 131I uptake in the mediastinum. Physical examination disclosed hyperpigmentation of the skin in the area of radiotherapy in the neck and supraclavicular areas. There was no evidence of a mass or lymph-adenopathy. The tracheostomy site was well healed. The lungs were clear, BP was 100/70, pulse 68, and respiration 16/min, and there was no cyanosis. Rou¬tine complete blood count, urinalysis, and blood chemistry test results were normal. Chest x-ray ﬁlms showed multiple nodular densities throughout both lungs and a prominent left hilum. The results of a radiographic skeletal survey and a technetium pyrophosphate bone scan were normal. The FTI was 8.4 and TSH was 4.1 µU/ml. A whole body 131I scan showed multiple areas of abnormal uptake in the area of the thyroid, and satellite areas of focal uptake around the thyroid bed. There was also focal activity in the mediastinum, in both hila and in the lung ﬁelds. A 72-hour chest uptake was 8.9%. The serum TG level was 81 ng/ml. The patient was treated multiple times with RAI and remained well while taking replacement T4 for ten years. At age 51, the tumor grew more rapidly, failed to accumulate 131I, and caused the patient’s death. This patient developed thyroid carcinoma at age 14 and probably had lymph node and lung metastases at that time. He lived a normal life during the ensuing 27
