Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


patient’s death. This patient developed thyroid carcinoma at age 14 and probably had lymph node and lung metastases at that time. He lived a normal life during the ensuing 27 years, without suppressive thyroxine treatment, and with only intermittent episodes of hemoptysis. The tumor responded at ﬁrst to 131I but later was uncontrolled. The common benign course of metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma over many years is clearly shown, as is the equally typical later exacerbation and death. Follicular Carcinoma Follicular carcinoma has a peak incidence in the ﬁfth decade of life in the United States and accounts for about one-quarter of all thyroid carcinomas (223,238,239). In past decades, follicular carcinomas comprised up to 50% of thyroid malignancies in Europe. The high incidence may partly be explained by iodine deﬁciency, but, more likely, was due to histological miss-classiﬁcation at a time when the follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma was not recognized as papillary but rather was classiﬁed as follicular. It is a slowly growing tumor and frequently is recognized as a nodule in the thyroid gland before metastases appear. Variation in the cellular pattern ranges from an almost normal-appearing structure to anaplastic tissue that forms no follicles or colloid. The insular variant of follicular tumor tends to be more aggressive (240). The tumor is three times as common in women as in men. At operation one-half to two-thirds of these tumors are resectable. Tumors that are small and well circumscribed (not surprisingly) tend to be less lethal than those actively inﬁltrating local structures at the initial operation. Local adenopathy, which is uncommon, probably carries a greater risk, and extensive invasion of the tumor capsule and thyroid tissue increases mortality (241). Local direct invasion of strap muscles and trachea is characteristic of the more aggressive tumors (242). Resectability depends on this feature, and death may be caused by local invasion and airway obstruction. The "minimally invasive" variant has a far better prognosis than the highly invasive variant. Follicular carcinomas tend to invade locally and metastasize distantly, rather than to local nodes, and are especially prone to metastasize to bone or lung. In a Massachusetts General Hospital series (231), one-half had metastasized at the time the diagnosis was originally established. Bony metastases are usually osteolytic, rarely osteoblastic, and the alkaline phosphatase level is rarely elevated. The tumor and metastases often retain an ability to accumulate and hold iodide, and are therefore sometimes
