Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


are usually osteolytic, rarely osteoblastic, and the alkaline phosphatase level is rarely elevated. The tumor and metastases often retain an ability to accumulate and hold iodide, and are therefore sometimes susceptible to treatment with RAI. Indeed, some metastatic tumors synthesize thyroid hormone in normal or even excessive amounts. RAI therapy, as discussed below, improves survival in these patients (241). Occasionally the primary lesion of a follicular tumor appears to be entirely benign, but distant metastases are found. Invasion of vessels or the capsule, apart from the metastasis, is the only reliable criterion of malignancy. This variant has been called the “benign metastasizing struma” or malignant adenoma. It has a more prolonged course than do other varieties of follicular tumor, and is the type that has offered the best opportunity for the therapeutic use of 131I. The net extra mortality attributable to follicular cancer in the 10 -15 years after diagnosis is 30 -50% (231,233,235). Of the patients dying from the lesion, three-fourths do so from the effect of distant metastases and the remainder from locally invasive disease. Hurthle CellTumors Hurthle cell tumors are histologically distinct from other follicular tumors, but they pursue a similar course. They tend to invade and metastasize locally and have a strong propensity to recur after surgery. The course tends to be prolonged. These carcinomas often do not accumulate 131I. However, in a large survey, Caplan et al (243) found that 4.4% of Hurthle cell neoplasms were hot on scan and 8.9% were warm. Serum TG levels may be normal or elevated. Cheung et al recently studied the presence of ret/PTC gene rearrangements in Hurthle cell tumors and found that many expressed ret/PTC, and also had other evidence of a papillary cancer origin, including focal nuclear hypochromasia, grooves, and nuclear inclusions. Tumors with the ret/PTC gene rearrangement tended to have lymph node metastases, rather than hematogenous spread. Thus Hurthle cell tumors can be classiﬁed into Hurthle cell adenomas, Hurthle cell carcinomas, and Hurthle cell papillary thyroid carcinoma (244). Insular Tumors A subset of thyroid carcinomas which give a histologic picture of islands of cells -thus "insular" --has been identiﬁed (243). These tumors often look like anaplastic cancers, but sometimes are able to concentrate 131I and thus are amenable to this excellent treatment. Whether these are properly considered a variety of follicular cancer is uncertain. The important message is that the histology in this instance does not
