Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


are amenable to this excellent treatment. Whether these are properly considered a variety of follicular cancer is uncertain. The important message is that the histology in this instance does not reliably predict the utility of 131I treatment, suggesting that all patients with thyroid cancer should at some point be studied to determine whether 131I treatment is possible. Undifferentiated Tumors Undifferentiated tumors occur predominantly in persons over 50 years of age and constitute an increasing proportion of lesions in each subsequent age decade. Of great interest is the pathologic evidence that such tumors arise, in perhaps half of the cases, in a long-standing benign lesion or in differentiated carcinoma (245). Although 131I therapy for differentiated cancers has been blamed for this dedifferentiation, current evidence is against this hypothesis. Spindle cell, and most giant-cell carcinomas of the thyroid grow rapidly and are very invasive. Local invasion may cause difﬁculty in breathing or swallowing, and tracheotomy is frequently required. These tumors metastasize to lymph nodes both locally and widely, but not characteristically to bone. Pulmonary metastases are frequent. Some patients present with a tender mass suggesting thyroiditis, and occasionally thyroid destruction induces hyperthyroidism (246). The outlook in this particular group of tumors is poor. By the time the diagnosis is made, the disease has spread in most patients beyond the area that can be attacked surgically, and they die within 6 months to 1 year. A few, perhaps 10%, of these tumors are entirely resectable when ﬁrst discovered. There is nothing characteristic about the growth pattern of these tumors; their behavior is similar to that of any highly malignant tumor elsewhere in the body. The course of the epidermoid carcinoma and sarcoma of the thyroid is essentially the same. Small-cell anaplastic carcinomas are also found, but probably most tumors so classiﬁed in the past are actually lymphomas or lymphosarcomas. Malignant Lymphomas Lymphomas of the thyroid gland represent less than 5% of primary thyroid neo¬plasms (247-250). Unlike most other thyroid neoplasms, lymphomas usually appear as rapidly enlarging masses and local symptoms are common. Many patients note pain, hoarseness, dysphagia, and dyspnea or stridor. Hoarseness is often present in the absence of vocal cord paralysis. Rarely, patients may have the superior vena cava syndrome. The mean age at occurrence is 62 years. Primary lymphomas of the thy-roid are two to three times more common in women than in men. The incidence of hypothyroidism at the
