Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


mean age at occurrence is 62 years. Primary lymphomas of the thy-roid are two to three times more common in women than in men. The incidence of hypothyroidism at the time of appearance is variable, ranging from 0 to 60% (251,252). The co-occurrence of pathologic lymphocytic thyroiditis has ranged from 30 to 87%. These ﬁgures may underestimate the true incidence, as some patients have only had a biopsy examination and in others the entire gland has been replaced by the lymphoma. The frequent presence of thyroiditis has naturally led to the suggestion that the lymphoma might derive from preexisting thyroiditis. The co-occurrence of thyroiditis may create difﬁculties in the proper interpretation of ﬁne needle aspiration cytology. The clinical appearance must be carefully considered in accepting a diagnosis by ﬁne needle aspiration of thyroiditis only or thyroiditis with lymphoma. An excisional or large needle biopsy may be necessary to make the correct diagnosis. The majority of thyroid lymphomas are diffuse, large-cell lymphomas (formerly classiﬁed as diffuse histiocytic or reticulum cell lymphomas), diffuse mixed small and large cell lymphomas (formerly called diffuse mixed lymphocytic-histiocytic), or diffuse small cleaved-cell lymphomas (formerly classiﬁed as diffuse poorly differen¬tiated lymphocytic). Although older series include reports of Burkitt lymphoma, none were reported in larger, more recent series. Areas of diffuse large-cell lymphomas may have features similar to those characteristic of Burkitt’s lymphoma or the Reed-Sternberg cells of Hodgkin’s lymphoma. Metastatic Carcinomas to the Thyroid Melanomas, breast tumors, pulmonary tumors, gastric, pancreatic, and intestinal carcinomas, renal carcinomas, lymphomas, carcinomas of the cervix, and tumors of the head and neck may metastasize to the thyroid. Sometimes the ﬁrst indication of one of these tumors may be the appearance of a lump in the neck. Unless there is evi¬dence for a primary site elsewhere, these tumors are easily mistaken for expanding tumors that have their origin in the thyroid gland. Usually by the time metastases appear in the thyroid, other metastases have occurred and the primary lesion may be discerned. Cancer in Aberrant Thyroid Tissue Thyroid tumors occasionally arise in lingual thyroids, along the thyroglossal duct (253), in substernal goiters, and even in struma ovarii. Whenever discovered, the therapeutic approach should the removal of the tumor assoiated with total thyroidectomy to allow subsequent treatment with radioiodine and follow-up based on serum Tg mreasurement. MEDULLARY CARCINOMA Hazard et al. (205) ﬁrst described a unique tumor in the thyroid characterized by sheets
