Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


to allow subsequent treatment with radioiodine and follow-up based on serum Tg mreasurement. MEDULLARY CARCINOMA Hazard et al. (205) ﬁrst described a unique tumor in the thyroid characterized by sheets of cells with large nuclei, amyloid deposits, ﬁbrosis, multicentricity, and an unexpectedly benign course in view of the solid tumor appearance. Over 50% may have local or distant metastases at diagnosis. The tumors may metastasize locally, or to bones and soft tissues. The thyroid primary tumor and the metastases may show dense calciﬁcation on x-ray ﬁlm. The course tends to be progressive, and 10-year survivorship varies from 50 to 70%. These tumors, which constitute 2-8% of all thyroid cancers, are derived from the "light," or "C," or "parafollicular" cells. These are calcitonin (CT)-secreting cells, distinct from thyroid acinar cells, and are of ultimo-branchial origin. The tumors may occur sporadically (about 70% of the total) or as part of the MENII syndromes, which constitute about 10-20% of the cases, and are transmitted in families as dominant traits due to activating germline point mutations of the RET proto-oncogene (254,255). In contrast with thyroid epithelial cell tumors, the female to male ratio is near unity. MEN-II (or IIA) includes patients with medullary thyroid cancers, pheochromocytomas, and parathyroid hyperplasia or adenomas. MEN-III (or MEN-IIB) includes medullary thyroid carcinoma, mucosal neuromas, pheochromocytomas, which are usually bilateral and often malignant, occasionally cafe-au-lait spots, and possibly Gardner’s syndrome (mucocutaneous pigmented nevi and small intestinal polyps) (133,256-259). An occasional variant of medullary thyroid cancer appears to contain both CT and TG, suggesting the cells, surprisingly, have features of both medullary thyroid cancer and follicular cancer (260). Gastrointestinal symptoms including diarrhea, constipation, and rarely megacolon occur in these patients and may occur before the thyroid tumor is detected. Hyperplasia of C cells often precedes the development of familial cancers (261). Medullary tumors derived from the C cells not only secrete CT, but in addition may produce serotonin (with a carcinoid syndrome), prostaglandins, corticotropin releasing factor, and adrenocorticotropic hormone (causing Cushing’s syndrome), histaminase, and somatostatin. Some of these substances, rather than calcitonin, may be the cause of the severe diarrea syndrome associated with metastatic medullary thyroid cancer. Interestingly, expression of somatostatin appears to correlate with improved prognosis (262). Medullary thyroid carcinoma cells in tissue culture have been found to produce Ghrelin, which is an endogenous ligand for the GH secretagogue receptor. MTC is known to produce several gastrointestinal hormones and
