Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


carcinoma cells in tissue culture have been found to produce Ghrelin, which is an endogenous ligand for the GH secretagogue receptor. MTC is known to produce several gastrointestinal hormones and neuroendocrine peptides, in addition to calcitonin, and including CGRP, ACTH, serotonin, chromogranin A, and vasoactive intestinal peptide, and to this we now add Ghrelin (263). Alcohol ingestion is reported to induce attacks of ﬂushing and diarrhea and to stimulate CT secretion by the tumors (264). The CT secreted by these tumors rarely causes hypocalcemia (265). Medullary tumors have an ominous histologic pattern, with solid masses of cells with large vesicular nuclei (212). There may be considerable associated ﬁbrosis, and deposits of amyloid are a helpful diagnostic point. At the time of initial histologic examination the pathologist should recognize these tumors as entities distinct from the undifferentiated cancers, for the medullary carcinomas have a much better progno¬sis. Ret oncogene and MedullaryThyroid Cancer Studies on patients with MENI and MEN II indicated linkage to chromosomes 11 and 10, respectively (138). Subsequent studies demonstrated that the ret oncogene is present at 10q11.2. Germline mutations have been detected in this oncogene in all patients with MEN II A and MEN IIB, and familial MTC (139). RET is a cell-membrane receptor of the growth factor family, with tyrosine kinase function. In up to 97% of patients with MenII A, mutations are found mostly in codons 609, 611, 618, 620, and 630 in exons 10 and 11. These all involve substitutions of other aminoacids for cysteine, and are thought to cause activation of the gene by aberrant disulphide bonding causing dimerization. Similar changes are seen in Familial MTC. In patients with the MENIIB syndrome, almost all, if not all, mutations involve an amino acid substitution of threonine for methionine at codon 918 in exon 16, and are thought to induce a change in substrate phosphorylation. Somatic mutations in ret are present in up to half of patients with sporadic MTC and are almost always in codon 918 (140,141). Mutations in this codon are thought to imply a poor prognosis (266). Calcitonin and CEA The calcitonin assay provides a convenient screening procedure in families with this genetic trait (267). Family members at risk should firstly BE screened for ret oncogene mutation in their blood, and when when recognized as a carrier of the mutation, should be screened by neck ultrasound and calcitonin measurement to assess the presence
