Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


for ret oncogene mutation in their blood, and when when recognized as a carrier of the mutation, should be screened by neck ultrasound and calcitonin measurement to assess the presence of the disease. Every member of one of these families with either a thyroid mass or elevated calcitonin levels should have a thyroidectomy. If no thyroid nodule is detected and the serum calcitonin is normal according to the reference range for that specific age group, prophylactic thyroidectomy should be considered in order to take out the thyroid gland before the disease is initiated. There is controversy regarding the more appropriate age for prophylactic thyroidectomy. Recent ATA guidelines for MTC have suggested different time for surgery according the the age and the mutation found (268) In MEN-IIA, the tumors follow a rather benign course somewhat akin to that of follicular cancer, and usually can be controlled by surgery. MEN-IIB tumors are much more aggressive and often cause death in the second or third decade. TSH suppressive treatment is not efﬁcacious in MTC and has no logical basis. Secretion of calcitonin by medullary cancer is remarkably increased by calcium or pentagastrin infusion (269). This procedure can be helpful in establishing a diagnosis if available. At present the infusion of pentagastrin (0.5 µg/kg over 5 seconds), with determination of calcitonin levels at 0, 1, 2, 5, 10, and 15 minutes, appears to be the best test. Alternatively stimulation with calcium gluconate, 20 mg/kg, can be done with infusion IV over 1 minute and testing as tor TRH. (This test can induce adverse cardiac effects, and close monitoring is reasonable.) Basal CT values are normally under (depending on the laboratory) 30 pg/ml (269). Values of 30-100 after pentagastrin indicate hyperplasia, and values over 100 typically indicate the presence of cancer. Calcitonin should drop to undetectable levels if the tumor is completely removed surgically. It should be noted that excess production of CT is not unique for medullary cancer, but can occur with granulomatous diseases and other cancers. An alternative is to monitor Calcitonin after Calcium infusion. Patients with the syndrome should also be studied with parathyroid hormone and catecholamine assays in order to determine the presence of other components of the syndrome. The neoplastic C cells also produce carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in large amounts. Serum CEA levels are elevated in medullary cancer with the same frequency as are CT levels (270). Although CEA determination
