Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


C cells also produce carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in large amounts. Serum CEA levels are elevated in medullary cancer with the same frequency as are CT levels (270). Although CEA determination provides another parameter to follow, it does not offer any obvious advantage, and lacks the speciﬁcity of CT determinations. Tumor dedifferentiation is associated with a fall of CT and increasing CEA. This is an ominous sign. Several specialized scanning procedures have been used in MTC. Total body imaging with Tl-201 chloride andTc-99m(V)DMSA have been successful in localizing metastases. 131I MIBG and 131I anti-CEA have been used both for localization and in attempts at therapy (271). Most recently, radiolabelled somatostatin has been used as a whole body scanning agent. Since patients with MENIIA and IIB, and familial MTC, probably all have a germline mutation of the ret oncogene near the centromere of chromosome 10, and many patients with sporadic MTC have somatic ret mutations, molecular techniques can be used to detect at-risk subjects in recognized families (269). PCR ampliﬁcation of exons 10, 11, and 16, followed by single strand conformational electrophoretic analysis, or use of speciﬁcally designed restriction enzyme sites, allows recognition of most mutations (272). This information is crucial in deﬁning potential risk in young children and identifying need for operation or frequent pentagastrin testing (255), and presumably will also screen out members of families who will not need to be repetitively screened by pentagastrin stimulation tests. Unlike occasional false positives with CT assays, the results of genetic screening are unambiguous (273). For readers with an interest in a somewhat broader view of oncogenesis, it may be noted that a syndrome entirely analogous to metastatic medullary thyroid carcinoma appears frequently in aged bulls (274). Histologically similar adenomas are also frequently found.The lesion may be due to excessive dietary calcium; whether a similar stimulus could operate in human disease is unknown. Treatment of MedullaryThyroid Cancer (MTC) MTC is unique since it can be detected in MEN-IIA or MEN-IIB families by genetic analysis and screening tests measuring pentagastrin-stimulated CT secretion before the disease reaches clinical detectability. In families with familial MTC, MENIIa, and IIB, repeatedly observed elevations to well above the normal range (e.g., peak values of 30-10pg/ml) constitute a basis for operation. In these patients focal tumors or C-cell hyperplasia may be found after near-total or total thyroidectomy is performed. Since C-cell hyperplasia precedes the development of malignancy, it is currently
