Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


operation. In these patients focal tumors or C-cell hyperplasia may be found after near-total or total thyroidectomy is performed. Since C-cell hyperplasia precedes the development of malignancy, it is currently believed logical to operate at this stage of the disease even in young children with MENIIB. Patients with MENIIA or familial MTC are similarly followed, tend to develop tumor later, and 20-40% may never develop cancer (275). International Workshops on MTC have recommended prophylactic thyroidectomy before the age of 5 years in persons harboring mutations of codons 611, 618, 620, and 634 because of their high efﬁciency in transformation. Consensus on best treatment for patients with other mutations (codons 609,630,768,790,791,804,891) is not clear, with thyroidectomy recommended from ages 5 to 10 (268,276). Patients with clinical tumor of any size, sporadic or familial, are also treated by near-total or total thyroidectomy. Invasive disease is resected if possible. Since cervical nodal metastasis occur in up to 90% of patients with palpable tumors, a careful mod¬iﬁed radical neck dissection is performed with removal of nodes in the central and ipsilateral compartment. The exploration for nodes should include the upper mediastinum. Bilateral neck dissection may be appropriate in patients with hereditary tumors (277). Management of Post-operative MTC patients who have positive CT assays When post-surgical serum CT is undetectable in basal condition and after pentagastrin stimulation, the patient has an almost 100% chance of being in complete and stable remission. In this case follow up should be based on periodic measurement of serum CT, without any instrumental evaluation. After operation, patients with still-detectable serum CT levels should be screened for persistent disease. Imaging should consists of CT of the neck and chest, MRI of the liver and bone scintigraphy. PET scanning may also be informative in selected cases. Some centers used to ablate residual functioning thyroid tissue with 131I, as in papillary or follicular tumors, since this procedure may ablate tiny foci of residual cancer (278,279). However, the value of this procedure is not proven, and this procedure is almost universally abandoned. In patients with local invasive disease, who are above age 45-50, we believe that radiotherapy (5,500-6,000 rads) is useful, although there is disagreement on this point.(v.i.). Occasionally CT levels fall gradually over a year. It is also possible to follow the serum level of CEA as a tumor marker, or CT-related peptide (280). A discordant elevation of CEA in relation to CT
