Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


a year. It is also possible to follow the serum level of CEA as a tumor marker, or CT-related peptide (280). A discordant elevation of CEA in relation to CT may be an indicator of an aggressive tumor. However, in general, CT is the most informative marker. What to do about the frequently-found elevated CT level without an obvious tumor source is less certain. Residual or recurrent resectable disease should be approached surgically. Neck dissection, if not done previously with a unilateral tumor, should be considered. In the absence of an identiﬁable source of the CT, careful, extensive, microdissection of the neck and upper mediastinum have been proposed in the hope to eliminate the source of CT (281), but the poor results of such extensive operation have dissuaded many from this approach. Catheterization of the superior vena cava and internal jugulars, with an attempt to localize the tumor by means of multiple venous sampling for CT (242) during pentagastrin stimulation, is possible. The technical success of this approach has been demonstrated, but often the CT level is not reduced to normal, even if operation is subsequently performed on the identiﬁed area (282). Radiotherapy may be given to identiﬁed non-resectable lesions. Radiation therapy for MTC In many cases, no source for the CT is found. Watchful waiting is the approach preferred by some experienced clinicians. Alternatively, mantle irradiation can be recommended. As shown by Simpson (283), medullary tumors are radiosensitive, although a full response may not be seen for many months. This irradiation has been shown to prolong local relapse-free time, but not to clearly improve ultimate prognosis (284). The effectiveness of radiotherapy was evaluated in 24 of 139 patients with medullary thyroid cancer who were given radiotherapy because of advanced local disease at presentation. Only one had normalization of calcitonin, but ten remained free of clinical recurrence. Local relapse was signiﬁcantly reduced after radiotherapy, but there was no difference in ten year survival between those with and without treatment. These authors believe that radiotherapy does reduce the incidence of loco-regional relapse, but do not advise routine use of radiotherapy because of the relatively favourable long term survival of patients even with elevated calcitonin levels after operation (285). Other investigators question the value of X-ray therapy, contending that patients with MEN-II have multicentric foci from the start, and that radiotherapy may actually worsen prognosis (286). Systemic therapy is reserved for patients
