Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


the value of X-ray therapy, contending that patients with MEN-II have multicentric foci from the start, and that radiotherapy may actually worsen prognosis (286). Systemic therapy is reserved for patients with proven symptomatic metastases, and the program is described below. MTC is associated in MEN-II with parathyroid adenomas and hyperplasia, and in both MEN-IIA and MEN-IIB with pheochromocytomas that are often bilateral and malignant. Parathyroid hormone, VMA, and catecholamine assays should be done to evaluate these problems, and pheochromocytoma, if present, should be treated before the thyroid cancer. Occasionally neuromas cause problems requiring surgery of the intestine or other organs, including the larynx. BIOLOGICAL FUNCTION OF THYROID TUMORS Interesting abnormalities in iodide metabolism are typical of thyroid adenomas (described above) and in thyroid carcinomas. In general, the tumors are cold at 131I scintiscan, because they tend to lose the ability to accumulate iodide from the plasma, to bind iodide to TG, or to synthesize thyroid hormone (287). The pattern is one of dedifferentiation, the loss of those functions peculiar to the thyroid gland. Follicular carcinomas tend to retain iodide metabolism more completely than other tumors, and therefore may be susceptible to treatment with RAI. Localization of 131I in tumors, if present at all, is spotty rather than homogeneous. Occasionally follicular thyroid cancers express high levels of Type2 iodothyronine deiodinase, and cause "consumptive hypothyroidism" (288). This surprising phenomenon has also been observed in patients who have highly vascular tumors which express the deiodinase (289). In rare cases follicular tumors or their metastases produce signiﬁcant amounts of thyroid hormone. In many instances the thyroid gland has been completely removed or destroyed, but the metastases have been sufﬁciently active to maintain the patient in a thyrotoxic state. More frequently, the metastases produce enough hormone to maintain the patient in a euthyroid condition, but not enough to produce thyrotoxicosis. This action indicates that the tumor may be responsive to thyrotrophic hormone, like the observation that thyrotropic hormone can induce growth of the tumors. Carcinomas usually are associated with elevated serum TG levels. Growing differentiated tumors may cause levels of TG of > 2000 ng/ml. In Hurthle cell tumors and anaplastic cancers, TG levels are usually minimally elevated. Differentiated thyroid cancers tend to retain a normal afﬁnity and capacity for binding of TSH to their membrane receptors (290), and TSH stimulates cAMP production normally in tumor tissue. Perhaps in keeping with the clinically recognized unresponsiveness
