Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


normal afﬁnity and capacity for binding of TSH to their membrane receptors (290), and TSH stimulates cAMP production normally in tumor tissue. Perhaps in keeping with the clinically recognized unresponsiveness to TSH, undifferentiated tumors lack high-afﬁnity TSH receptors. Genetic studies show that in these tumors the expression of the TSH receptor gene, and other thyroid differentiation genes is usually lost (291). In autonomous thyroid nodules, TSH stimulates cAMP accumulation normally; hypersensitivity to the hormone has sometimes been found (292,293). Immunologic Studies on Tumors Differentiated thyroid cancers contain TG and microsomal (TPO) antigens cross-reacting with antibody to normal thyroid antigens; this fact can be very useful in identifying metastatic deposits (294). Some tumors tend to lose the microsomal (TPO) antigen (295,296). There is strong evidence that the immune system mounts a defense against the tumors, although an imperfect one. Tumors commonly are inﬁltrated by lymphocytes, and there is less tendency for nodal metastasis, and a better prognosis, with tumors so involved (207). Antibodies to TG and TPO antigen are more common in cancer patients than in control subjects (254). We have shown, using in vitro assays, that 50% of patients develop immunity to TG, and some react to apparently speciﬁc thyroid tumor antigens (297). The tumor antigen is recognized in both autologous and heterologous tumors, and is not present in Graves’ disease tissue. Immunization with tumor preparation has been performed, and in a few cases has led to higher in vivo and in vitro reactivity and apparent partial tumor regression (298). Non-speciﬁc immune complexes are found in 10% of patients with differentiated cancers, and speciﬁc TG containing complexes are present at low levels in 30% of patients (299). With progress of thyroid cancer, the immune system gradually loses responsivity, as with other tumors (296,298,299). In vivo, circulating antibodies to Tg and/or TPO are found in nearly one fourth of the patients, and the anti-TG antibodies cause interference in assay of this substance thus making follow-up of patients difﬁcult. Their presence seems not to inﬂuence the tumor outcome (300,301). Interestingly, the disappearance of antithyroid autoantibod¬ies during follow-up, correlates with achievement of complete remission, suggesting that elimination of the antigen with successful therapy causes the disappearance of the corresponding autoantigen. Thus, the conversion from antibody positive to antibody negative may be interpreted as a marker of remission, while the persistence of the antigen may be regarded as indirect evidence of persistent disease (302).
