Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


from antibody positive to antibody negative may be interpreted as a marker of remission, while the persistence of the antigen may be regarded as indirect evidence of persistent disease (302). The ﬁbrosis and amyloid deposits in medullary cancers might suggest a host antitumor response, and indeed antitumor immunereactivity is detectable in vitro in most of these patients (303). Sometimes autoimmunity may play an adverse role. Graves’ disease co-occurs with 4-8% of thyroid cancers, whether by chance or through a true association is uncertain. In some patients with the association of thyroid cancer and Graves disease, the thyroid-stimulatory autoantibodies seem clearly to stimulate the growth of the cancer (198,199,200), but overall, it is not clear that the co-occurrence of Graves’ disease causes thyroid tumors to behave more aggressively. DIAGNOSIS Most patients with thyroid carcinoma are recognized because of a positive or suspicious FNA done for the clinical or sonographical discovery of a thyroid nodule, either single or in "multinodular" goiter (304). Anaplastic cancers and lymphomas commonly present as a smooth goiter. Stony hardness, ﬁxation to the trachea, and damage to recurrent laryngeal or cervical sympathetic nerves are other important clinical signs. The problems of differentiating carcinoma from other lesions of the thyroid have been reviewed in the preceding discussion of thyroid nodules. A few additional comments are given here. FNA and US studies, constitute the basic and most useful laboratory studies. TSH and fT4 are usually measured to verify metabolic status, and anti-TPO and TG antibodies may be useful in helping differentiate thyroiditis. Isotope scans have a limited role in initial diagnosis. Thyroglobulin assay- Although TG assay has been suggested as an important marker for thyroid cancer (305), practice shows that elevated TG levels can be caused by adenoma, multinodular goiter, and other diseases; thus the determination is of little value before operation. Chest xray may be informative but is often omitted. In lesions which extend outside the thyroid, or have metastasis, ultrasound of the neck, CAT scanning of the lungs, and MRI of the neck can provide useful information prior to surgery, and especially when following disease progress. Fine Needle Aspiration cytology- Currently, as described previously in the section on diagnosis of thyroid nodules, most reliance is placed on needle aspiration cytology. Fine needle aspiration cytology of cervical nodes under ultrasound guidance also must be remembered as a very useful technique (306). Ultrasound Typical features of ultrasonic scanning can suggest
