Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


aspiration cytology. Fine needle aspiration cytology of cervical nodes under ultrasound guidance also must be remembered as a very useful technique (306). Ultrasound Typical features of ultrasonic scanning can suggest malignancy with rather good sensitivity. Microcalcifications, irregular margins, hypoechogeneicity, intranodular blood vessels and round shape are all in support of malignancy and may dictate the need for FNA. The US procedure has replaced other scanning procedures such as angiography, thermography, iodopaque "thyrography", and ﬂuorescent scanning. US is described in the chapter on thyroid nodules and 6c. Very recently thyroid elastosonography has been proposed as a promising new tool to distinguish benign and malignant nodules. Isotope scanning Scintiscanning using 131-I is currently usually omitted in the initial evaluation of a possible malignancy. Most of the anatomic information needed is provided by US. Occasionally isotope scanning is useful in demonstration of hyperfunction in a nodule, lack of a lobe, extension below the sternum, or other factors. Demonstrate of failure of the involved area to concentrate RAI used to be important, since malignant lesion are invariably cold at scan. However it in no way proves the presence of cancer, nor does its absence rule out this possibility. Whole body scintiscanning is useful to determine whether lesions in lung or bone are thyroid tumor metastases. Signiﬁcant accumulation of RAI by the metastasis deﬁnitely proves thyroid origin. Occasionally uptake of RAI can be demonstrated in metastases in the neck before surgery. This ﬁnding is almost certain evidence for cancer. Usually normal thyroid tissue must be destroyed and TSH elevated before a metastasis will accumulate 131I. 131I whole body scanning in management of previously diagnosed thyroid cancer is discussed later in this chapter. Some tumors accumulate iodide but do not organify it. They are delineated by radiotechnetium scans done during the early "iodide phase" of isotope distribution, but not by scans using131-I or 125-I done at 24 -72 hours, when the storage of organiﬁed isotope is primarily recorded. Conversely, some metastases accumulate small amounts of 131-I but are not shown on short-term technetium scans (307). Recently, PET scan has been introduced and found informative for the imaging of metastatic disease devoid of 131-I uptake. 18-F Fluorodeoxyglucose Positron Emission tomography can localize tumor and determine tumor volume. Large deposits (>125ml) have a very adverse prognostic implication (308). It appears that stimulation of metastatic deposits by elevated TSH makes PET scanning more sensitive (309,310). CHOICE OF OPERATIVE PROCEDURE
