Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


preoperative evidence of lymph node metastases at US or intraoperative evidence, The same attitude seems indicated for lymph node dissection of other node chains. Whenever a patient treated with lobectomy is found to have cancer at final histology, the question arise whether to perform completion thyroidectomy. The indication of several guidelines (39) are in favour of completion thyroidectomy, with the exception of patients with unifocal, small, intrathyroidal, papillary thyroid cancers without evidence of lymph node metastases and favourable histology. The approach proposed here, is based on several observations. Multicentric involvement is reported to range from 25 to 90%. The wide variation of multicentricity (or intraglandular dissemination) can be explained in part by the ﬁnding that the incidence of multicentricity is doubled if one does whole gland histologic sections. There is little or no relationship between the size of a solitary nodule and the incidence of intraglandular dissemination, but an increasing degree of histologic malignancy is associated with the frequency of dissemination. Mazzaferri et al., in their review of 576 cases of papillary carcinoma, found that total thyroidectomy signiﬁcantly reduced the incidence of recurrences, and recurrences will presumably be correlated with deaths from disease (234). Samaan et al (311) also supported this procedure. Hay et al. evaluated the efﬁcacy of different surgical approaches to treatment of patients with low risk papillary carcinoma at the Mayo Clinic and concluded that more extensive surgery was not associated with lower case speciﬁc mortality rates, but was associated with a lower risk of local regional recurrence. Their data supports the use of bilateral resection as the preferable initial surgical approach (312). Total thyroidectomy carries an increased risk of hypoparathyroidism, recurrent nerve damage, and the necessity for tracheostomy (313). Accidental unilateral nerve damage may reach 5%, but fortunately bilateral injury is rare (314). All surgeons attempt to preserve those parathyroid glands that can be observed and spared, and an attempt is often made to transplant resected glands into the sternocleidomastoid muscles. Reports range from a 1 to a 25% incidence of hypoparathyroidism after total thyroidectomy (234,315). TUMOR STAGING AFTER SURGERY Tumor staging is intended to identify the risk of death or recurrence after initial treatment. The most used staging system is the TNM Staging system which combines simplicity with rather good predictive power. Several other staging systems have been developed. One is the Clinical Class system developed at the University of Chicago and is based simply
