Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


combines simplicity with rather good predictive power. Several other staging systems have been developed. One is the Clinical Class system developed at the University of Chicago and is based simply on the extent of disease (316). Other systems are designed to predict outcome. The EORTC classiﬁcation pro¬posed by the European Thyroid Association is based on age, sex, histology, invasion, and metastases (317). The Dames classiﬁcation includes data on age, extent and size of primary, distant metastases, and DNA ploidy (318). MACIS includes data on age, invasion, metastases, size, and completeness of surgery (319). All of the systems appear to be effective in categorizing patients into largely similar low and high risk groups. Several groups have recently established new criteria for risk assessment based on pathological features combined with clinical features and with the response to initial therapy. The idea is to delay the risk assignement to a time when the response to initial therapy may be evaluated. The first proposal (called “Ongoing Risk Stratification”) came from the Memorial Center in New York (320), where patients were assigned to low or high risk category based on the results of follow-up after initial treatment. Patients in apparent complete remission at that time were defined as low risk, regardless of the initial risk stratification obtained soon after surgery. A second proposal came from an Italian study (321). These authors assigned patients to low or high risk group at the moment of the first evaluation done 8-12 months after surgery and radioiodine ablation (if performed). Patients free of disease (negative neck US, undetectable basal and stimulated serum Tg and no other evidence of disease) were classified at low risk. Patients with any evidence of ersistent disease (including detectable TG) were considered at high risk of recurrence. The authors demonstrated that nearly half of the patients could be shifted from the high risk category (at the time of surgery) to the low risk category. The system was named Delayed Risk Stratification (DRS). One advantage of these delayed risk stratification systems is that gives an idea of the risk of recurrence which is not considered in the TNM classification. TSH SUPPRESSIVE/REPLACEMENT THERAPY After operation all patients are kept on TSH-suppressive thyroid hormone therapy with l-thyroxine . At the time or the first post-surgical evaluation, individuals with current active cancer (other than medullary or lymphoma) should continue with TSH-suppressive therapy aimed to a TSH around 0.1 µU/ml.
