Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


At the time or the first post-surgical evaluation, individuals with current active cancer (other than medullary or lymphoma) should continue with TSH-suppressive therapy aimed to a TSH around 0.1 µU/ml. Pushing TSH below this level has not been associated with better outcome, while has been associated with more frequent side effects from clinical or subclinical hyperthyroidism. Patients who are considered free of disease, should have their replacement lowered to provide a TSH in the low-normal range, and ultimately as safety is assured, in the normal range. CHILDHOOD THYROID CANCER Some special features of thyroid cancer occurring in children deserve comment. It is, of course, an uncommon disease. The tumors are usually papillary or mixed histologically, and tend to grow slowly, with a high frequency (50 -80%) of neck metastases, but with a relatively favorable prognosis. Very young patients (under age 12) often have relatively aggressive disease. The association with x-ray exposure has already been discussed. As in adults, the incidence in girls is double that in boys. Multicen¬tricity of tumors is found in 30 -80%. Metastases to lungs, usually microscopic, are common (perhaps 20%), but tumor is rarely found in the bones. Lung metastases usually accumulate 131-I and can often be eradicated with this isotope, particularly those not visible with X-rays. As with adult tumors there is no universally accepted surgical approach, but it is certain that sentiment has swung away from prophylactic and radical neck dissections to a more conservative position (322,323). The operations employed are as described above, and near-total thyroidectomy, done by an experienced surgeon, is favored. Thyroid remnants are destroyed with 131-I in patients with multicentric lesions and in all Clinical Stage II, III, and IV. Detection of metastases is attempted by131-I scanning, as described elsewhere in this chapter. Most childhood metastatic thyroid cancers are found to accumulate sufﬁcient 131-I to allow useful and sometimes curative therapy, often with doses of 75-150 mCi. Presumably children are more likely to suffer side-effects of 131-I therapy, as described below. Reproductive potential is diminished by large doses of 131-I (324), but an increased incidence of birth defects has to date not been encountered among the relatively few progeny studied (325-327). Thyroid hormone is given to suppress TSH to the 0.1uU/ml area in patients who have known residual or probable residual disease, even though this is known to cause some loss of bone mineral. Although the 10-year survival is from
