Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


0.1uU/ml area in patients who have known residual or probable residual disease, even though this is known to cause some loss of bone mineral. Although the 10-year survival is from 90 to 95%, long term follow-up demonstrates an eight fold greater than normal mortality (230) and emphasizes the need for comprehensive therapy and long term follow-up. RAI 131-I ABLATION Most patients who have had a "total" thyroidectomy, and all patients who have had a subtotal resection, will have some functioning thyroid tissue remaining in the normal position after surgery, and will thus be candidates for 131I ablation. This is done to remove any possible residual tumor in the thyroid bed (thyroid ablation), to make subsequent scans and TG assays more interpretable, and (hopefully) to kill tumor cells elsewhere (adjuvant therapy). There is no unanimity regarding the use of postoperative 131I ablation in Stage I tumors, since absolutely convincing evidence of its value is lacking (234,328). But for all patients with papillary and follicular cancers as a group, 131I ablation correlates with improved survival (232). Our data demonstrate that postoperative 131I ablation correlated with decreased recurrences for all patients with papillary cancers over 1 cm in size. Samaan et al (311), in a review of 1599 patients, observed that 131I treat¬ment was the most powerful indicator for disease-free survival. Ablation can be accomplished in most instances by one dose of 30 mCi 131I, giving the patients about 10 whole body rads (329). In our practice 80% of patients are ablated successfully with one dose of 30mCi, and the remainder require repeat therapy at the time of their second scan. Other clinicians ﬁnd this dose insufﬁcient, and give 50-150 mCi as an inpatient treatment. In part this difference may depend upon the surgeon, since small remnants of residual thyroid are more easily ablated than large amounts of residual tissue. Low dose (30 mCi) ablation of thyroid tissue after near-total thyroidectomy was recently reviewed by Roos et al. Surveying many studies, they concluded that 30 mCi was as effective as larger doses in inducing ablation, and since it could be administered without hospitalizing the patient, was an appropriate treatment (330). Doses of 100 mCi may provide more certain ablation with one dose (although at the expense of greater patient radiation) but there is little difference between ablation rates with does of 30-75 mCi. There is no data proving that one method or the
