Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


at the expense of greater patient radiation) but there is little difference between ablation rates with does of 30-75 mCi. There is no data proving that one method or the other provides superior results in terms of survival. We do not routinely use ablation in patients under age 21 with tumors under 1 cm. Patients with tumors above this size, older patients, or those with multicentricity or a history of neck irradiation are advised to take 131I. This practice is followed in most clinics. The indications for thyroid ablation, based on levels of evidence have been detailed in recent ATA guidelines (39). Three groups of patients are identified, one (at very low risk of recurrence) in which thyroid ablation is not indicated due to the lack of evidence of any benefit; a second group where the benefit, if any, are not evidence based. In this group, ablation should be offered in selected cases according to the judgement of the treating physician. Finally, a third group, including high risk patients, in which ablation has a strong indication based on good evidence that it may reduce cancer recurrence and possibly deaths. Irrespective of the protocol and the dose used for ablation, there is always a subgroup of about 20% of patients that will not be successfully ablated with the first RAI course. The factors associated with ablation failure are not fully understood. Ablation failure does not correlate precisely with the dose, with the levels of TSH stimulation, the amount of thyroid residue or the level of urinary iodine excretion (331). In particular, it is not certain whether the use of doses higher than 3.70 GBq would result in any addi¬tional beneﬁt, or whether there is a ’stunning’ effect of the diagnostic dose of 131I on the subsequent ablation rate, although likely to occur. A retrospective analysis was performed of all patients (n=389) with well-differentiated thyroid cancer treated at our institution between 1992 and 2001. The therapeutic dose was the only variable found to be associated with success (odds ratio, 1.96 per 1.85 GBq increment). Our results conﬁrm the presence of a signiﬁcant percentage of ablation failures (24.4%) despite the use of high ablative doses (3.70-7.40 GBq). Higher therapeutic doses are associated with higher rates of successful ablation, even when administered to patients with more advanced stages. Higher diagnostic doses were not associated with higher rates of ablation failure. (332). The utility of
