Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


higher rates of successful ablation, even when administered to patients with more advanced stages. Higher diagnostic doses were not associated with higher rates of ablation failure. (332). The utility of radioactive iodide treatment of patients with papillary and follicular cancer was recently reviewed in a series of articles by Wartofsky, Sherman, and Schlumberger and their associates. Schlumberger concludes that routine radioactive iodide ablation is not indicated in patients with differentiated thyroid carcinomas of less than 1.5 cm in diameter, and advocates restricting RAI ablation to patients with poor prognostic indicators for relapse or death (333). Wartofsky points out a secondary beneﬁt of postoperative low dose 131I ablation in that, for many patients, it provides a high degree of certainty and peace of mind when subsequent scans are negative and TG is undetectable. Another argument for radioactive iodide ablation and early detection of any recurrence is the data presented by several groups, including Schlumberger and colleagues, that there is a reciprocal relationship between the success of cancer therapy and the size and duration of the lesions. In patients with Stage II to IV disease, we proceed to destroy all residual thyroid and to treat demonstrable metastases if they can be induced to take up enough 131I. Use of 131I therapy is investigated in these patients, regardless of the histologic characteristics of the resected lesion, although signiﬁcant uptake rarely is found in Hurthle tumors (243,334) or in patients with anaplastic lesions. Preparation for 131-I ablation The "traditional" approach has been to induce hypothyroidism prior to the ablative dose in order to raise TSH and stimulate uptake of RAI in residual thyroid or tumor. This may be done by simply leaving the patient without T4 therapy for 3 weeks post op. Alternatively patients can be given thyroid hormone suppressive therapy for 6 weeks or so after operation, so that any malignant cells disseminated at the time of thyroidectomy will not be stimulated by TSH. The value of this measure is admittedly unknown. Patients then receive 25 µgL-T3 bid for 3 weeks, and therapy is then stopped for at 2-3 weeks to allow endogenous TSH (which may reach 20-60 µU/ml) to stimulate uptake of the 131I by the remaining fragments of thyroid tissue or metastatic lesions in the neck or elsewhere before proceeding with 131I therapy. Diagnostic scans are no longer indicated by several groups and ATA guidelines (39), based on the evidence that
