Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


metastatic lesions in the neck or elsewhere before proceeding with 131I therapy. Diagnostic scans are no longer indicated by several groups and ATA guidelines (39), based on the evidence that they do not offer additional information compared to the post-therapy scan and based on the possibility of stunning. However, if one wants to do it, the usual scanning dose should be no higher than 1 mCi 131-I, and scans are read at 48 or 72 hours, when body background has diminished. If TSH is sufﬁciently elevated the initial scan can reveal distant metastases as well as residual thyroid gland. If large thyroid tissue remnants are present, TSH may not become very elevated, but will do so after the ﬁrst ablation dose. Patients with Class I and Class II disease under age 45 are given 30 mCi as an out-patient treatment. Older patients with Class II disease and patients with Class III or IV disease are given doses of 75-100 mCi as an inpatient treatment. A post-therapy whole body scans should be mandatory 3-5 days after the ablative dose of 131I (or after therapeutic doses), since occasionally unsuspected metastasis may be visualized on scans at this time. Serum Tg is always measured at the time of 131-I therapy. At 24 hours after initial ablation, we replace hormone therapy at suppressive doses Some physicians proceed without prior scanning directly to 131-I ablation 2-4 weeks after surgery and perform a post-therapy scan 5-7 days later. Presumed beneﬁts of this approach are patient convenience, less expense, and avoidance of possible thyroid "stunning" by the scan dose. In fact, stunning has not been demonstrated with the 2mCi 131-I dose, although it may occur. Arguments for doing a pre-ablation scan include ﬁnding out the actual percent uptake of the treatment dose in the neck and elsewhere, establishing if in fact there is uptake, and recognizing disease that may dictate a larger initial dose. The ﬁnal word on these different approaches is not in. Variations on this approach were studied by Pacini et al (335), who compared induced hypothyroidism with rhTSH stimulation. The Pisa group found that either thyroid hormone withdrawal, or hormone withdrawal plus 2 doses of rhTSH, produced higher percentage uptakes and more frequent ablation with 30 mCi doses (in about 80% of cases), compared to rhTSH alone. These results have been confirmed in other series (336), including a randomized, international study (337) which brought
