Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


with 30 mCi doses (in about 80% of cases), compared to rhTSH alone. These results have been confirmed in other series (336), including a randomized, international study (337) which brought the approval of Thyrogen in the preparation of thyroid ablation. Half-Dose Protocol and Thyroid Hormone Withdrawal An alternative to rhTSH stimulation for the initial follow-up is the "half-dose" protocol (338). Half the usual dose of thyroxine is given for six weeks. TSH is tested in the ﬁfth week, and if over 20 uU/ml, scanning is done in the sixth week, or preparation is prolonged if needed. On this protocol patients usually feel quasi-normal and conduct normal activities, in contrast to their function during withdrawal. On the half-dose protocol, FT4 falls to just below normal, and TSH on average reaches about 60uU/ml in the sixth week. Patients who start with TSH below 0.1 U/ml may take longer to reach a satisfactory level for Tg testing, which is generally considered to be with TSH at least 30 U/ml. Recombinate human TSH (Thyrogen) During induced hypothyroidism, patients may experience a wide range of hypothyroid signs and symptoms which may be severe and may result in a substantial impairment of the patients’ lives and ability to work, and occasional tumor growth. Recombinant human TSH (Thyrogen) has been developed to meet the need for safe, adequate exogenous TSH stimulation in patients with papillary and follicular thyroid carcinoma. In vitro studies have shown that rhTSH can effectively stimulate cAMP production and the growth of human fetal thyroid cells. The in vivo biological efﬁcacy of rhTSH was demonstrated in normal subjects, in whom it is able to increase serum T4 and T3 concentrations and stimulate thyroidal radioiodine uptake. A single dose of 0.1 mg rhTSH is a potent stimulator of thyroid function in normal subjects (339). A ﬁrst clinical trial of recombinant human TSH (rhTSH-THYROGEN) (phase I/II) was completed in 1994 in 19 patients after a recent thyroidectomy for differentiated thyroid cancer (340).The encouraging results of this limited study were conﬁrmed in a larger multicenter phase III study conducted between 1992 and 1995 in the USA in 127 patients (341) and in a second phase III multicentric trial, which included USA and European centers (342). The results of this trial can be summarized as follows: scans were similar after rhTSH and thyroid hormone withdrawal in 92% of the patients, with no difference between the two dose regimens
