Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


of this trial can be summarized as follows: scans were similar after rhTSH and thyroid hormone withdrawal in 92% of the patients, with no difference between the two dose regimens investigated. When the results of 131I WBS and post-rhTSH Tg levels were combined, the detection rate increased to 94%. Among the patients with persistent or recurrent disease, 80% had concordant scans, 4% had superior rhTSH scans and 16% had superior withdrawal scans. Interestingly, serum TG levels were detectable in 80% during thyroid hormone therapy and were detectable in all following either rhTSH stimulation or withdrawal of thyroid hormone treatment. However, the TG level reached after rhTSH stimulation was in general lower than that obtained after thyroid hormone withdrawal. Tissue RAI uptakes obtained in the patients undergoing hormone withdrawal were twice the values found after rhTSH, indicating that withdrawal provided a much greater stimulus to thyroid or tumor tissue. However, as noted, the diagnostic results were nearly equal. Quality of life was much better during rhTSH than during hypothyroidism induced by thyroid hormone withdrawal, and side effects were minimal, mainly consisting in mild and transient nausea or headache in less than 10% of patients. No patient has developed detectable anti-rhTSH antibodies, even after receiving repeated courses of rhTSH in successive clinical trials .All together these clinical trials have clearly shown that rhTSH is an effective and safe alternative to thyroid hormone withdrawal during the post-surgical follow-up of papillary and follicular thyroid cancer, although not as sensitive as scanning after hormone withdrawal in some patients. Another factor to consider is the cost, wehich is rougly $ 2000 per treatment, although for the majority of patients in USA this is covered by their insurance. A few patients have been reported with metastases demonstrated on withdrawal scans that were not evident on rhTSH scans (343). It has been found that Thyrogen administration induces a reduction of serum vascular endothelial growth factor, even in the absence of thyroid tissue (344). The clinical signiﬁcance of this observation, if any, is unknown, but it does imply possible action of rhTSH on receptors other than in thryoid tissue. Use of rhTSH in managing thyroid cancer has recently been extensively reviewed (345). Thanks to many studies confirming the properties of rhtsh in stimulating iodine uptake and Tg production, rhTSH has now considered a standard method of preparation for both thyroid ablation and post-surgical follow-up in patients with any form
