Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


of rhtsh in stimulating iodine uptake and Tg production, rhTSH has now considered a standard method of preparation for both thyroid ablation and post-surgical follow-up in patients with any form of differentiated thyroid cancer. Options in Follow-up scans and treatment-including recently described variations After surgery and thyroid ablation, the next step is follow-up. The first important time for follow-up is between 8 and 12 months after initial treatment. At this time we want to understand whether the patients have evidence of complete remission or some evidence of persistent or recurrent disease. In the past, the conventional preparation for follow-up was to obtain a diagnostic total body scan with 131I after induction of hypothyroidism, with the same methodology as described for ablation, in order to stimulate uptake of 131-I by residual thyroid tissue or tumor cells and production of TG. In recent years it has become common to omit the diagnostic scans after initial ablation, at least in patients deemed to be at low risk, and relying entirely on measurement of stimulated (after rhTSH administration) serum TG when anti-Tg antibodies are negative (39). In patients known to have residual disease because of elevated baseline TG or ultrasound evidence of metastatic lymph nodes, is to give therapeutic 131-I without preliminary scanning. In several large series, it was demonstrated that at this time of the follow-up, more than 80% of the patients will have evidence of complete remission (negative neck US and undetectable stimulated serum Tg levels). These patients do not require additional tests or imaging and their suppressive hormone therapy should be shifted to replacement targeting serum TSH in the low-normal range. In subsequent years, the chance of these patients to have a recurrence is extremely low (<1%) and thus their follow uo should be solely based on basal Tg measurement and neck US once a year. On the contrary, when neck US is positive for local disease, or the basal or stimulated Tg is elevated the patient should be screened for the localization of the disease and treated accordingly. FOLLOW -UP TREATMENT BASED ON TG ASSAYS As assays for thyroglobulin (TG) have become more sensitive and reliable, measurement of TG assumes more and more importance in determining the management of patients followed after thyroidectomy and radioactive iodide ablation treatment for thyroid cancer. Serum TG levels, in the absence of antibodies interfering in the assay, correlate well with tumor burden, although detectable
