Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


followed after thyroidectomy and radioactive iodide ablation treatment for thyroid cancer. Serum TG levels, in the absence of antibodies interfering in the assay, correlate well with tumor burden, although detectable tumor may well be present even in the presence of negative TG assays in individuals who are on replacement thyroid hormone (346). Pacini et al (347) reported that in a retrospective study of 315 patients who had undetectable serum TG in the hypothyroid state at the time of the ﬁrst control body scan after thyroid ablation, no useful information was provided by the body scan. Thus they propose that diagnostic 131I whole body scans can be avoided in patients with undetectable levels of stimulated TG after initial ablation, and that the patients can be monitored with clinical examination, ultrasound, and serial TG measurements on thyroxin treatment during the subsequent follow-up. However, some concerns may be noted. The TG assay used in their study recognized a value of <3ng/ml as "undetectable". Also, of the 90 patients in the study with thyroid bed RAIU, 54 received a second course of treatment, and seven received two additional courses. This seems to question the recommended approach (347). In a second study (348) they found that an undetectable TG, when hypothyroid at the time of the ﬁrst control scan after ablation, predicted complete and permanent remission. They propose that subsequent 131-I scanning is unneeded, and follow-up clinically and by TG assays while on thyroxin, would be sufﬁcient. Mazzaferri and Kloos (349) studied retrospectively 107 patients who were “clinically free of disease” and had undetectable or very low serum TG levels during thyroid hormone therapy. The Tg levels on treatment were all 1 ng/ml or less, and 95% were under 0.5 ng/ml in their assay, which was a commercial (Nichols Institute) chemoluminescent antibody assay. In response to the administration of two doses of recombinant TSH and assay of TG on samples taken on the ﬁfth day, 20% were found to have a value above 2, with values ranging from above 2 up to 18 ng/ml. Twenty percent of the patients who had low or undetectable Tg had elevation above 2 ng/ml after rhTSH stimulation, and many of these patients ended up with therapy. However, the authors found that radioactive iodide whole body scans often failed to localize the source of the elevated TG, which was found after post-therapy scans or by other imaging methods. This study
