Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


found that radioactive iodide whole body scans often failed to localize the source of the elevated TG, which was found after post-therapy scans or by other imaging methods. This study suggests that even with a TG level below 1 while on replacement therapy, persistent disease may sometimes be present and be detected by stimulation using recombinant TSH or thyroid hormone withdrawal. Wartofsky (350,351) comments on these studies and supports the idea that TG testing, both on suppression and after TSH stimulation, can help in determining therapy. He suggests that, in patients with a serum TG<0.5ng/ml on suppression, and in a low risk category, that stimulation by recombinant TSH and measurement of TG, rather than scanning, is satisfactory. If the TG remains <1, the patients can be evaluated annually with such a stimulation test. In patients with slightly higher TGs, up to 2, he suggests measuring a recombinant TSH stimulated TG, and scanning. In patients with higher TGs, he suggests that thyroid hormone withdrawal and radioactive iodide treatment, without initial scanning, may be appropriate. In a study done by the rhTSH-Stimulated Thyroglobulin Study Group (352) and published in 2002, a cut off level of 1 ng/ml for stimulated TG was taken as the safe level for patients with low risk. This group would presumably be monitored by repeat rTSH stimlated TG assays rather than scans. It is of interest that in this study 14 of the patients with stimulated TG <2ng/ml underwent isotope scanning and 9 were positive. These "could be interpreted as false negative" tests. Five had uptake outside the thyroid bed. This group suggests that patients with stimulated TG above 2 would have subsequent thyroid hormone withdrawal and possible 131-I therapy without scanning. A recent “consensus” statement by a group of thyroidologists also supports the categorization of patients into high and low risk groups, and use of TG as described above for following low risk patients (353). Whether this approach, with omission of whole body scans, has any adverse effect on long term outcome is not yet known. STUNNING FROM "TRACER" RAI- The amount of 131I used for scanning varies from 2-10 mCi, in various clinics, or even larger amounts. Clearly the larger doses detect more lesions, but this rarely alters treatment plans. More importantly, doses of 5-10 mCi have been shown to decrease tumor uptake of the subsequent treatment dose due to "stuning" of the tumor (354). The
