Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


rarely alters treatment plans. More importantly, doses of 5-10 mCi have been shown to decrease tumor uptake of the subsequent treatment dose due to "stuning" of the tumor (354). The exact importance of this phenomena is uncertain, but use of a 2mCi dose has seemed to be a reasonable compromise. A study by Lassmann et al (355) call this assumption into question, since they found that even a 2mCi scan dose reduced RAIU by up to 50% in a second procedure done 6 weeks later.This study was carefully performed on a few patients, but it is possible that prolonged stimulation of the thyroid by elevated TSH may have adversely altered iodide kinetics in the remnants during the second RAIU procedure. Although a reduction of uptake after prior low dose scans has been reported, it is uncertain that this limits the effectiveness of treatment. It was found that ablation rates were equal in individuals who had, or had not, received scans prior to their treatment dose of 131-I (356). Ingestion of large amounts of iodide, or exposure to contrast dye within 6 (or more) weeks, can prevent RAIU. Uptake can be enhanced by prescribing a low iodine diet for at least two weeks before scanning and therapy, although also this assumption has been questioned by a recent study (331). It is useful to give magnesium citrate to induce bowel emptying prior to the scan. As discussed above, the value of routine follow-up diagnostic scans has been challenged by two European study, who suggest that such scans rarely give information of value in patients who have TG <1 after thyroid ablation (357,358). They suggest testing TG after thyroid hormone withdrawal or rhTSH, and directly treating those with TG above 10 by administration of 100mCi 131-I. This concept is of interest and awaits further examination, but has obvious problems as noted. HIGH DOSE RAI THERAPY FOR INVASIVE OR METASTATIC DISEASE Efﬁcacy and morbidity of high activity of 131-I therapy was assessed in 38 patients with locally advanced or metastatic differentiated thyroid cancer (16 follicular, 20 papillary, one Hurthle cell, one insular) who were treated with high activity radioiodine therapy (9 GBq) as the cancers had previously not responded to standard activities of 5.5 GBq. After high activity treatment, 9.7% of patients suffered grade 3 and 3.2% suffered grade 4 WHO haematological toxicity. Signiﬁcant salivary gland morbidity was observed (30% dry mouth, 27% salivary
