Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


lithium might also reduce the required 131I dosage for ablation of thyroid remnants (364). It is useful to do a scintiscan on patients who have received therapeutic doses of 131I at 5 -7days following the treatment, thus using the treatment dose as a more pow¬erful scanning dose. While often offering no new information, this may reveal unsuspected metastasis, especially in younger patients who have previously had 131I treatment. Fatourechi et al found that 13% of follow-up scans demonstrated abnormal foci of uptake not seen on diagnostic scans, and changed management in 9% of their patients (334,365). The 131-I treatment cycle is repeated at 24-52 weeks, as long as there is no evidence of systemic radiation damage, and as long as the metastases continue to accumulate iodide. The total 131I dosage may vary from 150 to (rarely) 2,000 mCi. Both papillary and follicular cancers respond to 131-I therapy. Small metastases from papillary cancer, especially if functional in the lungs but not large enough to be visualized on X-ray, are typically cured. Follicular tumors often have relatively few metastases and high uptake, thus seem ideal targets for therapy. However portions of the metastases, especially in bone, appear to be resistant and ﬁnally continue growth despite 131-I treatment. Nevertheless 131-I therapy is beneﬁcial even in advanced and aggressive tumors. Pelikan et al report their experience on the use of radioactive iodide in treating advanced differentiated thyroid carcinoma and report that up to 50% of patients who have distant metastases can be cured by 131I therapy (366). Aggressive high dose radioiodine therapy has been advocated for treatment of advanced differentiated thyroid cancer by Men-zel and colleagues. These physicians gave repeated doses of 300 mCi (11.1 GBq 131I) with mean accumulated total activities of, on average, 55 GBq per patient. Repetitive high dose therapy appeared beneﬁcial in the majority of patients with papillary carcinoma, but the majority of follicular thyroid cancer patients had progressive disease despite treatment (367). The National Thyroid Cancer Treatment Cooperative Study Registry Group recently evaluated the therapy of high risk papillary and non-Hurthle cell follicular thyroid carcinoma. The study conﬁrmed the utility and beneﬁt of radioactive iodide therapy to reduce recurrence and cancer-speciﬁc mortality among patients in the high risk group (368). Pittas et al. (369) reviewed an extensive series of 146 patients with documented bone metastasis from thyroid carcinoma seen at Memorial Sloan Kettering in New York City. Bone metastases
