Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


(368). Pittas et al. (369) reviewed an extensive series of 146 patients with documented bone metastasis from thyroid carcinoma seen at Memorial Sloan Kettering in New York City. Bone metastases were most common in vertebrae, pelvis, ribs, and femur, and multiple lesions were present in more than half the cases. Overall ten year survival rate was 35%, and from diagnosis of initial bone metastasis, was 13%. Favorable prognostic signs for survival included radioiodine uptake by the metastases and absence of non osseous metastases. Hurthle cells had a favorable response to treatment, rather surprisingly, whereas un-differentiated thyroid tumors fared the worst. Arterial embolization has been combined with radioactive iodide treatment for management of large bone metastasis from differentiated thyroid carcinoma with apparent improvement in effect over the use of radioactive iodide alone. In the study by VanTol et al, (370) embolization was not accompanied by any severe complications. rhTSH is now available for routine use, and allows 131I therapy without induction of hypothyroidism (340). This will probably increase acceptance of scanning and therefor increase the frequency of the procedures. Iodide depletion by dietary control and diuresis, including furosemide or mannitol administration, can also double the fractional uptake of 131I in metastases (371,372). Finally, when the diagnostic scan shows no 131I uptake, even with TSH, the potential beneﬁts from this mode of therapy have been probably exhausted. However, before giving up to 131-I therapy, some authors suggest using high doses of 131-I and obtaining a post-therapy scan, which in some cases may show areas of uptake not seen in the diagnostic scan (see below). 131-I Therapy with "Negative" scans In some patients tracer studies fail to show uptake, and serum TG is elevated. Some investigators recommend treating these individuals with large doses of 131I (100¬-150 mCi) and report that tumor uptake can be visualized after treatment, and that serum TG may fall (373,374) (Fig. 18-18). The clinical efﬁcacy of this approach is not known. In a few cases reported by Schlumberger et al. (375) and Pineda et al. (376). TG became undetectable, which clearly is a striking and hopeful result. As of this date, there is no data proving that this treatment improves prognosis (377). The utility of radioactive iodide treatment of patients with papillary and follicular cancer was recently reviewed in a series of articles by Wartofsky, Sherman, and Schlumberger and their associates (333). Sherman and Gopal analyzed the use of
