Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


patients with papillary and follicular cancer was recently reviewed in a series of articles by Wartofsky, Sherman, and Schlumberger and their associates (333). Sherman and Gopal analyzed the use of 100 mCi doses of 131I for treatment of scan negative TG-positive patients and conclude that this must, at this point, be considered an experimental procedure of uncertain beneﬁt. They argue against its use in young patients with elevated although apparently stable TG values and without radiographic evidence of disease. Fatourechi et al. (378) analyzed results of this treatment in a series of patients treated at the Mayo Clinic and concluded that it rarely produced signiﬁcant effect, although it possibly helped stabilze disease in patients with micro metastases in the lung. It is clearly ineffective in patients who have metastases large enough to be detected on chest X-ray of CAT . Wartofsky et al. (333) sug¬gests that, rather than initial treatment with 131I of patients who are scan negative and TG-positive, thorough imaging studies are appropriate. These might include a CAT scan of the chest, an MRI of the neck, 99mTc-MIBI, or 18-ﬂuorine ﬂuorodeoxyglucose PET scanning, or even 99mTc-tetrafosmin, or 201TI thallium. Localization of malignant tissue by any of these means may allow surgical excision or external radiotherapy. This series of articles provides many very useful thoughts on management of difﬁ¬cult patients with recurrent thyroid carcinoma. Figure 18-18 Changes in serum TG after therapeutic doses of radioiodine in patients with negative basal whole-body scans. The arrows indicate the administration of therapeutic doses of 131-I. The numbers represent individual patients. In most patients, thyroglobulin decreased, although only in a few to a level that would indicate absence of residual disease. (From Pacini et al, J Nuc Med 28:18888-1891, 1987) Maximal dose protocols The therapeutic protocol used at Memorial Hospital in New York, by Maxon (363), and as well at some other centers, has for years been designed to give maximal-tolerable radiation doses to cancer patients (231). The dose is calculated on the basis of prior isotope tracer kinetics. The aim is to give a blood dose of under 200 rads, or less than 120 mCi retained at 48 hours, or 80 mCi retained at 48 hours if diffuse lung metastases are present. This method has theoretical advantages since it potentially provides the most cancericidal dose, but the difﬁculties of calculating the dose and the occasional adverse reactions have so far prevented this
