Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


This method has theoretical advantages since it potentially provides the most cancericidal dose, but the difﬁculties of calculating the dose and the occasional adverse reactions have so far prevented this method from being generally employed. The dosimetric approach has been carefully reviewed by Van Nostrand et al (361). Figure 18-19a Chest radiographs of a patient with extensive follicular thyroid carcinoma prior to (upper) and after 131-I therapy (lower). With 131-I therapy there was resolution of the large pulmonary metastases, but a tumor in the cervical vertebrae progressed and caused instability of the spine. Figure 18-19b Chest radiographs of a patient with extensive follicular thyroid carcinoma prior to (upper) and after 131-I therapy (lower). With 131-I therapy there was resolution of the large pulmonary metastases, but a tumor in the cervical vertebrae progressed and caused instability of the spine. RADIATION PRECAUTIONS Before radiation therapy, female patients should be carefully screened for pregnancy and lactation. Conﬁrmed or possible pregnancy constitutes a ﬁrm contraindication to therapy because of the risk of damage to the fetus. A patient who has ingested many milliCuries of 131I can cause serious radiation contamination, and appropriate precautions must be followed. If less than 30 mCi 131I is given, it is permissible to have the patient dispose of urine and feces into general sewage. If amounts of 131I greater than 30 mCi are given, the patient should be kept in a private room in the hospital until less than 30 mCi is retained in the body. Urine can be directly disposed in sewage, or can be collected by the patient and stored in bottles behind protective lead shielding. After physical decay, usually after about 6 weeks, it may be discarded in the sewage. Contaminated bedding and utensils should be stored for 10 half-lives (80 days), thoroughly washed, and monitored for residual contamination before being used again. Alternatively, disposable bedding and utensils may be used. Table 18-9 Radiation Exposure to Personnel During Care of a Patient Who Has Received 100 mCi 131I View in own window Distance From Source – e.g The Patient Reason for Exposure Rate (mrad/hr) Allowable Duration of Exposure Permitted on Basis of 0.1Rad/Week 1/2 in. Direct handling of therapy dose or urine after therapy 136000 None 1 ft. Giving personal hygiene to treated patient 240 0.5 hr/week 3 ft. Making the bed, mopping the floor 27 5.0 hr/week 9 ft. In chair across the room 3
