Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


1 ft. Giving personal hygiene to treated patient 240 0.5 hr/week 3 ft. Making the bed, mopping the floor 27 5.0 hr/week 9 ft. In chair across the room 3 50.0 hr/week allowable exposure cannot be reached Personnel caring for a patient who has received 131I therapy are often concerned about exposure to excessive radiation. This is almost never a real problem. Isotope can, at a practical level, only be passed from the patient to another person via saliva or urine. Monitoring by means of a portable counter is important in making certain that no person receives more than an allowable radiation dose from the isotope in the patient’s body. Table 18-9 gives a rough estimate of the amount of radiation received while performing ordinary hospital tasks at various distances from a patient who has received 131I. In general, all ordinary patient care can be performed without hazard. It is best to avoid close contact between hospital personnel and patient during the ﬁrst 48 hours after therapy because of undue apprehension that may be induced. However, even after doses of up to 100 mCi, normal personal actvities such as eating at the same table, or driving in the same car, carry no risk to others. The US Nuclear Regulatory Commission has published new guidelines which allow release of patients treated with isotopes from the hospital if the total effective radiation exposure from the treated person to any other individual is not likely to exceed 5mSv (0.5 rads). Grigsby et al (379) found that when using precautions such as those described above in a group of patients given on average about 100mCi 131-I, the exposure to other individuals in their household and to pets did not exceed this level. Recently, guidelines for the optimal radiation protection after treatment with 131-I have been proposed by the American Thyroid Association (380). Radiation damage from 131-I Therapy The use of RAI in large doses is not without hazard. The radiation dose delivered to the whole body, the gonads, or bone marrow is usually assumed to be the same as that of the blood. The blood dose depends on the amount of isotope administered; its distribution space and turnover; the degree of heterogeneity of distribution in the tumor; the uptake, synthesis, and secretion of labeled compound by the tumor; and perhaps other variables. The radiation is usually largely due to inorganic iodide, since little protein
