Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


in the tumor; the uptake, synthesis, and secretion of labeled compound by the tumor; and perhaps other variables. The radiation is usually largely due to inorganic iodide, since little protein bound 131I ordinarily appears in the blood. Sometimes tumor destruction is such that much PB131I appears in the blood and can yield a major fraction of the total whole body radiation dose. As a rough estimate, the blood, gonadal, or bone marrow radiation may be assumed to be 0.3 -1.5 rads/mCi 131I administered (381), or 45-150 rads per treatment with 100 mCi. The genetic risks are discussed in Chapter 11 and are not reviewed here. Ordinarily, when 131I therapy is needed for carcinoma, the necessity of treating the patient outweighs the risks of genetic damage. Various unwanted effects of radiation may occur in patients receiving large doses of 131I. Mild radiation sickness is seen. Metastatic deposits or surrounding tissues may become painful over 2-4 weeks from radiation-induced inﬂammation. Damage to the salivary glands can cause sialadenitis, and xerostomia, and can lead to loss of teeth (382). Increasing salivary ﬂow following treatment is partially protective. Ovarian function is often temporarily suppressed (383), and if there are pelvic metastases that collect 131I, the gonads may receive a sterilizing dose. Sperm count may be reduced for months (384). Leukemia occurs with increased frequency in patients who have received large doses of 131I (usually>600 mCi) for cancer (217). Transient or permanent alterations in liver function and lymphoma of the parotid gland have been reported as possible sequelae (385). Pulmonary ﬁbrosis has occurred in patients with functioning lung metastases who have received unusually large doses or who have very active metastases (386). Leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and anemia are encountered with accumulating doses. A mild effect on the bone marrow is seen with each therapeutic dose, and after several hundred milliCuries, aplastic anemia may develop (387). The hemoglobin level, white cell count, differential count, and platelets should be monitored periodically in order to judge recovery of the marrow between treatments and to prevent excess total radiation damage to the marrow. Large radiation doses may cause transient swelling of metastasis in the brain or spinal canal. Lin et al (388) recently reviewed pregnancies following 131I treatment of well differentiated thyroid carcinoma among a group of 58 pregnant women and found no evidence of demonstrable adverse effects, but suggest that it would be wise to avoid pregnancy during the
