Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


differentiated thyroid carcinoma among a group of 58 pregnant women and found no evidence of demonstrable adverse effects, but suggest that it would be wise to avoid pregnancy during the ﬁrst six months after the last administration of 131I. With the exception of possibly increased rate of miscarriages, no other adverse effect of radioiodine has been found on the outcome of 2113 pregnancies after radioiodine treatment and on their offspring (318). Two special complications need be noted. Occasionally withdrawal of hormone suppression, in preparation for isotope therapy, leads to rapid growth of the tumor, and reinstitution may not seem to return the patient to the prior condition. Special care should be taken if metastases are present in areas such as brain or spinal column, where growth could cause serious sequelae. Glucocorticoids are occasionally given prophylactically in an effort to prevent tumor swelling in this situation . RAI was introduced into the treatment of thyroid carcinoma with the hope that it would be a panacea for this disease. Unfortunately, the results have not been universally beneﬁcial. Most tumors in children appear to be treatable, and among adults 80-90% of metastatic carcinomas accumulate sufﬁcient 131I to warrant a serious therapeutic trial. Patients who harbor this form of the disease are fortunate, since 131I may totally eradicate the metastases. Even multiple pulmonary metastases occasionally disappear after 131Itherapy (Fig. 18-19a, above). The ﬁnal value of 131I therapy has been difﬁcult to deﬁne, largely because of a lack of controlled series and because of other treatment (especially thyroid hormone) given at the same time (387). Mazzaferri (232) found that 131I ablation and therapy signiﬁcantly improved the prognosis in papillary cancer by decreasing recurrences. Varma et al. (389) found that RAI treatment had no effect on the survival of persons under age 40 but did lower the death rate of patients over age 40. Leeper (390) concluded that 131I treatment appears clearly to beneﬁt patients under 40 years of age with papillary cancer, but the course of this cancer in older patients is rarely affected; follicular cancers in older patients are treatable, and survival is prolonged even if the disease is not eradicated. Soft tissue lesions, especially of the lung and mediastinum, respond best to 131I. Osseous lesions are often highly functional but are infrequently totally destroyed by 131I (Fig. 18-9b) (391). Lesions detected on whole body scans, with negative bone X-rays, are most likely to
