Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


Osseous lesions are often highly functional but are infrequently totally destroyed by 131I (Fig. 18-9b) (391). Lesions detected on whole body scans, with negative bone X-rays, are most likely to be cured. In another report, 59 of 400 patients were considered candidates for 131I therapy after using antithyroid drugs or TSH to stimulate uptake. Of these, 61% with metastatic disease were beneﬁted (362). The follicular, papillary, and mixed cancers responded equally well. Numerous reports indicate that ablation of metastasis with 131I is associated with a better prognosis than failure to ablate, but obviously this outcome may relate to the histologic nature and function of the lesion rather than to the therapy per se. Disseminated pulmonary metastasis can sometimes be eradicated by 131I, but radiation pneumonitis or ﬁbrosis may be produced and may be fatal (321,386). On ﬁrst observation of pulmonary metastases, this therapy should be considered, but no more than 75 mCi should ever be deposited in the lungs in one treatment. Progress of the lesion and pulmonary function should be carefully evaluated before and be-tween treatments (389,391,392-394). Occasionally patients present with locally advanced papillary thyroid cancer which is not surgically resectable. In some instances preoperative treatment with radioactive iodide sufﬁciently reduces the extent of the lesion to allow subsequent deﬁnitive surgery (395). One of the most informative study regarding the effects and limitation of 131-I therapy is given by the series of the Institut Goustave-Roussy periodically updated by Schlumberger et al (396). In their most recent publication the authors report on 444 patients treated with 131-I for distant metatsases and the results identified three groups of patients with different outcome after therapy: a group very likely to be cured after a few courses of RAI, represented by young patients with micronodular disease, usually in the lung; a second group whose metatsases can be stabilized but not cured after more than 600 mCi as cumulative doses and a third group including older patients with macronodular disease, partuclarly in the bones, who do not responde to RAI and progress rapidly to the exitus. It is apparent from this study that, continuing RAI therapy after 600 mCi usually has no benefit. FOLLOW-UP OF CANCER PATIENTS: THE SERUM TG ASSAY After initial ablation patients are given TSH-suppressive doses of l-thyroxine. This therapy as dual aims: to replace the thyroid hormone function and to inhibit the growth of potential residual disease..Two-three months later serum
