Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


patients are given TSH-suppressive doses of l-thyroxine. This therapy as dual aims: to replace the thyroid hormone function and to inhibit the growth of potential residual disease..Two-three months later serum TSH, free thyroid hormones and Tg concentrations are measured during l-thyroxine treatment. The results of these tests will disclose whether the l-thyroxine dose is adequate in suppressing TSH levels without inducing hyperthyroidism, but will give little information on whether the patient is in remission. To this purpose, the most informative follow-up period is at 6-12 minths after initial treatment, when the ablative dose of radioiodine should have exerted its effect. At this point, the patients have been already attributed a risk estimate based on the results of the post-ablative WBS and serum Tg measurement (397,398). This information is important at the moment of the new evaluation. If uptake was seen outside the thyroid bed on the post-therapy WBS, the patient must be considered in high risk of recurrence or persistent disease, while if no uptake was seen outside the thyroid bed on the 131-I post-therapy scan, the Patient is considered at low-risk. The 6-12 month control, consists of careful neck ultrasound to detect the lymph node status and serum Tg levels (with negative anti-Tg) after stimulation with exogenous (better) or endogenous TSH. These tests are considered by many authors as sufficient to confirm complete remission (negative US and undetectable stimulated Tg). Other advocate the usefulness of a diagnostic WBS with radioiodine, aimed to ensure that thyroid ablation has been successful and to search for foci of 131-I uptake outside the thyroid bed. However, two independent studies (357,399) have shown that this diagnostic WBS are almost always negative (and sometimes false negative) thus adding very little information to that given by neck US and serum Tg measurement. Indeed, the result of serum Tg measurement is the more sensitive predictor of complete remission or persistent disease (provided that anti-Tg autoantibodies are negative) (400-404). Nearly all patients with local or distant disease have detectable or elevated serum Tg levels, while patients in stable remission have undetectable serum Tg concentrations. Compared to serum Tg measurement, the yield of the diagnostic 131-I WBS is lower. A signiﬁcant proportion of patients may have elevation of serum Tg in the presence of falsely negative diagnostic WBS. A retrospective study by Cailleaux et al. (357) has shown that when serum Tg off therapy is undetectable, routine diagnostic WBS
