Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


Tg in the presence of falsely negative diagnostic WBS. A retrospective study by Cailleaux et al. (357) has shown that when serum Tg off therapy is undetectable, routine diagnostic WBS does not add any further in¬formation on the clinical status of the patient. Similar results have been obtained at the Department of Endocrinology, University of Pisa, (399) in a retrospective series of 315 patients who had undetectable serum Tg off l-thyroxine at the time of the ﬁrst control after thyroid ablation. None of these patients had evidence of disease activity at WBS, and 99.4% were in complete and stable remission after 12 years of follow-up. Only two patients (0.6%) had recurrence of lymph node metastases which were treated with radioiodine therapy. Based on these studies it is possible that in the future the need for 131-I scanning may be dictated by the results of serum TG during hypothyroidism or by rhTSH-stimulation (342). After this follow up, low-risk patients (those with an undetectable stimulated serum Tg, negative neck US and negative WBS, when performed) are considered as cured and may be followed with periodic serum Tg measurement during l-thyroxine therapy. Thyroxine therapy may be decreased to maintain a low but not suppressed serum TSH concentration (0.1-0.4 µU/ml). The risk of recurrence is in fact so low in these patients (representing more than 80% of the total) that overdosage of l-thyroxine is unjustiﬁed. As noted the problem of antibody interference in the TG assay makes this test unreliable in 10-15% of patients. However another aspect of the antibodies should be remembered. If patients are free of thyroid cancer and the thyroid has been ablated, it appears that the antigenic stimulation necessary to maintain an anti-TG titer is gradually lost, and these antibodies disappear with a 3-6 year half-life (302). Thus, the level of anti.Tg antibodies may be used as a surrogate marker of disease. Other approaches, including the search of Tg mRNA in the blood, have been proposed, but none has entered clinical practice. Fugazzola et al (405) point out that the combination of TG RIA and TG mRNA assay offer better positive and negative predictive value than TG alone. In some studies TGmRNA analysis has proven much less reliable than serum TG assay (406). In high risk patients, even if considered cured, suppressive doses of l-thyroxine may be continued for some years, because the risk of relapse is greater. Pujol et
