Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


TG assay (406). In high risk patients, even if considered cured, suppressive doses of l-thyroxine may be continued for some years, because the risk of relapse is greater. Pujol et al evaluated a series of patients over an average of 95 months and compared those who had TSH values constantly under 0.05 mU/l to those who had all TSH values greater than 1mU/l. A lesser degree of TSH suppression was associated with an increased incidence of relapse, with a shorter average relapse-free survival (407). This observation was not sustained in another study (408). The objective of suppressive therapy in these patients should be to attain a serum TSH level of 0.1 µU/ml or less with normal free T3. In this situation, side effects such as osteoporosis, are not observed (409). Clinical and biochemical evaluation is performed annually. If serum Tg becomes detectable during follow-up, the patient should be evaluated for the presence of disease by neck us, first, and by other imaging if neck ultrasound is negative. Some authors prefer to avoid this procedure and give directly a therapeutic dose of 131-I followed by a post-therapy scan. In the absence of uptake after therapeutic doses of 131-I, any further administration of 131-I is not justiﬁed, and the site of Tg production should be searched for by other imaging techniques. If 131-I thyroid ablation has not been performed or if the patient has undergone only partial thyroid surgery (subtotal or lobectomy), follow-up should consist of clinical and ultrasound examination and serum Tg measurement. However, in this case, the sensitivity and speciﬁcity of serum Tg assay is reduced. In such patients, ant suspicious of persistent or recurrence disease should prompt to complete the initial treatment with completion thyroidectomy and/or radioiodine ablation. During follow-up, patients may develop isolated metastases that can be approached surgically. Osseous metastases, especially from follicular cancer, may require radiotherapy or operative procedures for stabilization. Progressive growth of soft tissue or osseous metastases that are not amenable to thyroid hormone, 131I therapy, or radiotherapy should lead to consideration of systemic therapies. UNDIFFERENTIATED CARCINOMAS Undifferentiated carcinomas, if operable, may be treated by thyroidectomy and resection of all involved tissue in the neck. 5-10% can apparently be completely resected, and the patient can have a discrete survival, although they are never cured. Prophylactic X-radiation (5,000 rads) should be given postoperatively in all cases.. If the lesion is obviously inoperable, X-ray therapy should
