Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


can have a discrete survival, although they are never cured. Prophylactic X-radiation (5,000 rads) should be given postoperatively in all cases.. If the lesion is obviously inoperable, X-ray therapy should be the initial treatment. In some instances, the rapidly growing tumors melt almost completely for a time after X-ray therapy, giving the pa¬tient a gratifying respite from the disease. Some anaplastic tumors have been treated with alkylating agents, and rarely, a rapidly proliferating and highly undifferentiated tumor has responded with a temporary regression. Chemotherapy is discussed below. Kim and Leeper (410) reported partial results combining low dose adriamycin (10 mg/m2) and hyperfractionated radiotherapy (160 rads twice daily) to 5760 rads. Time of survival was prolonged and local recurrences largely prevented. There has been no conﬁrmation of this study, unfortunately. A prospective protocol combining surgery, chemotherapy (CT),and hyperfractionated accelerated radiotherapy (RT) was employed in anaplastic thyroid carcinoma. The main toxicity was hematologic. High long-term survival was obtained when RT-CT was given after complete surgery. This protocol avoided local tumor progression, and death was mainly caused by distant metastases (411). The clinical behaviour and therapy of anaplastic carcinoma have recently been reviewed by K. Ain (412). Despite any combination of therapies, anaplastic thyroid cancer remains one of the most aggressive human cancer, with 80% of the patients dying within 2 6 months and the remaining within 2 years. Novel treatment regimens are badly needed for this tumor. Lymphomas Once diagnosed, patients should be staged by chest X-ray, chest and abdominal CAT scans, bone marrow biopsy, and gallium scan. In 20-30% of patients, the lymphoma will be conﬁned within the thyroid gland. Lymph nodes are involved in approximately 60% of the patients, and perithyroidal invasion is present in about half. When patients have undergone appropriate staging procedures, 20-30% will have Stage IIIE (lymphoma present in nodes below the diaphragm) or Stage IVE (distant extranodal metastases) disease. The selection of appropriate therapy requires prior staging of the patient. As these tumors are radiosensitive, external radiation therapy is a satisfactory treatment for Stage I-E (local disease only, no nodal involvement) and has been used for Stage II-E (nodal involvement above the diaphragm only) disease. The dose to the neck is usually 4,000 rads (40 Gy) over 4-5 weeks (248). The radiation port should include the mediastinum even in the absence of clinical involvement. When evaluating the long-term survival of patients with Stage I and Stage
