Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


over 4-5 weeks (248). The radiation port should include the mediastinum even in the absence of clinical involvement. When evaluating the long-term survival of patients with Stage I and Stage II disease, Souhami et al. found that of seven patients treated with radiation to the neck only, ﬁve died within 5 years, whereas in ﬁve patients receiving radiation to the neck and mediastinum, there were no deaths (249). Patients with unfavorable prognostic fac¬tors such as age >60yr, large mass or tumor necrosis, may be given chemo-therapy after radiotherapy. In radiation-treated patients with local extension or with malignant nodes, the survival after surgery is unaffected by the extent of surgery even when surgery was limited to a biopsy. With obvious extension or nodal involvement, surgery should be limited to obtaining an adequate diagnostic specimen since an attempt at complete excision may damage surrounding structures without improving survival. There is a suggestion that total thyroidectomy may improve the prognosis in patients with intrathyroidal disease only (240). There is a growing tendency to use combination chemotherapy as the initial deﬁnitive treatment for Stage IE and IIE thyroid lymphoma, rather than radiation.. Programs may combine cyclophosphamide, adriamycin, vincristine, and prednisolone ("CHOP"). This approach may increase cure above the 30-50% found with radiotherapy alone (413). Currently most patients with Stage II-E, and patients with Stage III-E or Stage IV-E disease, as well as those who relapse after radiation therapy, are treated with chemotherapy, given every 3-4 weeks for 3-6 cycles, prior to radiation therapy if combined with that treatment. Although previous series report overall 5-year survivals of about 50%, certain subgroups have a more favorable prognosis. With appro¬priate staging to exclude Stage III-E and Stage IV-E patients, the Stanford group has reported a 3-year survival of 83% and at 3 years 75% of their StageI-E and Stage II-E patients had no evidence of disease (414). Matsuzuka et al (415) used both radiation therapy and six courses of "CHOP" chemotherapy, and report 100% survival for 8 years in a group of patients who received this treatment. RADIATION THERAPY The general indications for radiation therapy are given in Table 18-11. Other sources should be reviewed for details of the port, dose, and methods of irradiation. Studies by Tubiana et al (416), Simpson (283), and Riccabona (417) have clearly established the efﬁcacy of radiotherapy in all types of thyroid cancer. Although its therapeutic use is now well accepted,
