Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


Tubiana et al (416), Simpson (283), and Riccabona (417) have clearly established the efﬁcacy of radiotherapy in all types of thyroid cancer. Although its therapeutic use is now well accepted, its prophylactic use (e.g., in papillary or follicular lesions with possible residual disease, or in papillary or follicular Stage III lesions after RAI ablation) is controversial. Currently, we would ﬁrst treat all papillary or follicular invasive or possibly metastatic tumors with RAI. In patients under age 55, it is not clear that x-ray therapy should be added. Over age 55, 131I therapy should be followed by x-ray treatment for Stage III or potentially Stage III lesions, and any recurrence or metastasis not responding to 131I may also be treated (418). The efﬁcacy of external radiation therapy in the management of thyroid malignancy has been reviewed by Brierley et al, Lin et al, Farahati et al, and Tsang et al. (419-422). Brierley, recommends X-ray therapy in addition to 131I therapy in patients with papillary or follicular cancer who have probable or deﬁnitive microscopic residual disease. They gave 30 to 50 Gy over four weeks with the spinal cord dose less than 80% of the total. Radiotherapy was also advised for treatment of anaplastic thyroid carcinoma, in an attempt to achieve local control, using hyperfractionation, possibly with the addition of doxorubicin. Radiotherapy was used for treatment of lymphomas, with a total dose of 35 – 40 Gy given over four weeks, and was typically preceded by the use of CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone) delivered every three to four weeks in three to six cycles prior to the radiotherapy. Cause-speciﬁc survival was 82% inpatients who received combined therapy and 63% in those who got X-ray alone. Combined therapies were given to all patients except those with small bulk disease under 3 cm in size conﬁned to the thyroid, who received radiation alone. Lin et al. (420) evaluated 699 patients with differentiated thyroid cancer who received external radiotherapy after surgery, compared to 172 who did not, and found no evidence that radiotherapy improved survival rate of patients with well differentiated thyroid cancer. These were patients with either neck nodes or local invasion.There were 172 patients who received no radiotherapy versus 32 who did. The patients were in clinical stages 2 and 3 at the time of treatment. Farahati et al (421) looked at patients with parathyroidal tumor invasion and found that adjuvant
