Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


but usually the maximal dose is 5,000-6,000 rads, using ortho-or megavoltage, and a fractionated technique over several weeks. Dosage must be planned to assure that the spinal cord receives less than 3500 rads in order to avoid myelopathy. SYSTEMIC THERAPY FOR METASTATIC DISEASE Sporadic experience indicates that bleomycin (424,425), adriamycin (426), vinblastine (427), methotrexate (426), cisplatinum and other agents (428) may have value in treating disseminated thyroid tumors. However, none of these drug has given more than palliation. With the advent of new molecules targeting specific metabolic pathways involve in the generation and maintainance of thyroid cancer growth, the so call “tyrosine kinase inhibitor’, chemotherapy has been almost universally abandoned. Recent ATA guidelines (39) states that whenever systemic therapy is needed, the patient should be offered the possibility to be entered in clinical trials using these new molecules. Metastatic papillary or follicular tumors refractory to conventional therapy grow slowly and systemic therapy is not indicated until the tumor is clearly growing progressively despite hormone suppression. The same apply to the treatment of MTC (264). RE-DIFFERENTIATION’ THERAPY RETINOIC ACID- Experimental data from in vitro studies suggest that retinoic acid can inducere-differentiation of thyroid cancer cells with regain of iodide concentrating ability. Simon et al (429) studied 28 patients with differentiated thyroid cancer using 1.5 mg/kg retinoic acid per day for ﬁve weeks. Iodide uptake increased in eight of the patients and thyroglobulin increased in 63%. Thus retinoid appeared to reinduce iodide uptake in half of the treated patients by redifferentiation. They gave 13-cis-retinoic acid. Side effects occurred in half of the patients but were generally well tolerated. A common side effect was dryness of the skin and mucosal surfaces. The reinduction of 131I uptake allowed radioiodine therapy in several of the patients. The effect on tumor size was uncertain. Retinoic acid redifferentiation therapy has recently been reviewed by Schmutzler and Kohrle (430). They note that, of twenty documented retinoic acid treated patients, at least eight had exhibited a decrease or stabilization in tumor size, and in serum TG levels, in addition to enhanced radioiodide transport. However, this relatively positive review seems enthusiastic, considering the small evidence of improvement observed in most cases. Clearly the ben¬eﬁts of this experimental treatment are as yet uncertain, but it is nevertheless an exciting observation that retinoic acid can have an apparent beneﬁcial redifferentiating effect on some thyroid tumors. Histone deactylase inhibitors also have been found
