Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


yet uncertain, but it is nevertheless an exciting observation that retinoic acid can have an apparent beneﬁcial redifferentiating effect on some thyroid tumors. Histone deactylase inhibitors also have been found to restore in part the function of NIS, TPO and TG in thyroid tumor cells in vitro (431), and valproic acid also has an action to restore NIS function, probably via the same mechanism (432). PPARgamma agonists-In vitro studies show that PPAR gamma agonists can slow thyroid tumor cell growth and induce apoptosis (433). Results of clinical trials are awaited. ONYX-015is an E1B deleted adenovirus that replicates in cells with impaired p53 function. p53 is commonly inactivated in anaplastic thyroid cancers. In vitro studies demonstrate that this virus induced cell death in in vitro trials in anaplastic cancer cell lines, and synergized with treatment with doxorubicin and pacitaxel (434). Adenoviral vectors producing tk, IL-2, IL-12, and GM-CSF in a cell speciﬁc manner are currently under study in animals with encouraging results. Studies in humans are so far very limited, but the methods appear to be safe and effective, especially with the immunomodulator IL-12 (434,435). A variety of ideas on possible treatments for thyroid cancer have been reviewed by Braga-Basaria and Ringel (436). TYROSINE KINASE INHIBITORS Several oncogenes involved in thyroid cancer progression are tyrosine kinase receptor. Molecules that block kinase activity at distal steps in the MAP kinase pathway are logical candidate drugs for thyroid cancer. TKI being tested against differentiated thyroid cancer in clinical trials include motesanib diphosphate, axitinib, gefitinib, sorafenib and sunitinib. None of these is specific for one oncogene protein but they target several TK receptors and pro-angiogenic growth factor receptors. The results of phase II-III clinical trials conducted so far are promising with partial responses ranging 14- 32% and stable disease 50-67% (437). In addition, very recently one of this drug, vandetanib, have been approved for the treatment of progressive, metastatic MTC, based in clear evidence of beneficial effects in clinical trials (438,439). All together, the preliminary results of these trials are promising and indicate that target therapy might become the first line treatment of metastatic refractory thyroid cancer patients in the near future. Sunitinib is a multitargeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) that is is currently approved for the therapy of renal cell carcinoma and gastrointestinal stromal tumor. Some eficacy was found in both differentiated thyoid cancer and medullary cancer in Phase II studies, with partial
