Thyroid Cancer
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, tumors, therapy, tumor, treatment, disease, papillary, carcinoma, thyroid cancer, follicular, dose, metastases, radiation


approved for the therapy of renal cell carcinoma and gastrointestinal stromal tumor. Some eficacy was found in both differentiated thyoid cancer and medullary cancer in Phase II studies, with partial response rates of 13-30%. Sorafenib is a similar agent, also achieving significant levels of partial responses and stabilized disease. Several Phase II stuies have been reported, and a Phase III trial has been completed. Vandetanib has been studies in Phase II trials and in a randomized, placebo-controlled phase III study in patients with both hereditary and sporadic MTC, using vandetanib 300 mg or placebo. A 54% reduction in the risk of progression was observed and also objective tumor responses in 45% of patients. The FDA approved it for the treatment of symptomatic or progressive medullary thyroid cancer in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic disease. Motesanib, Axitinib, Pazopanib, Lenvatinib and several other related TKIs that more specifically block VEGF receptors are in Phase II or III trials. These agents appear to block progression and in some studies decrease tumor bulk, but are not specifically cytotoxic, and tend to loose efficacy over months, presumably by mutational events in the tumor. Future studies will surely investigate serial or combined treatments, and use with other possibly cytotoxic agents. Progress in the last few years has reinvigerated therapy for these difficult tumors, but comes with a price. Since TRK Iinhibitors affect many sites in the body, side effects are very common and often serious, but generally tolerable The major side-effects include hypertension in 20-50% of cases, diarrhea in 37-77%, fatigue in 40-50%, weight loss in 20-60%, frequent nausea, skin sensitivity, and very frequent rashes, depending on the study, dosage,and drug (439). Some of the agents induce hypothyroidism during therapy. Most reports available are the result of clinical investigations, often by consortia made up of physicians specializing in therapy of thyroid cancer, and patients are generally advised to enter such a trial if a newer agent is used.. However these agents gradually spread into more generaized usage, by therapists who may not have extensive experience. The MD Anderson group has published suggested institutional guidelines to help provide safeguards for non-investigative use of TKIs(440). Presentation of this chapter is supported in part by Genzyme, the makers of rhTSH (THYROGEN) References for cancer chapter 1. Hedinger, C, Dillwyn Williams, E, Sobin, L 1989. The WHO histological classification of thyroid tumors. A commentary on the second edition.
