Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infection, funding, uti, received, symptoms, urinary, chronic, research, patient, member, tract, diseases, development, served, guidelines


IDSA GUIDELINES Clinical Practice Guidelines by Infectious Diseases Society of America: 2025 Guidelines on Management and Treatment of Complicated Urinary Tract Infections—Patient Perspectives Barbara W. Trautner,1, Nicolás W. Cortés-Penfield,2Kalpana Gupta,3Elizabeth B. Hirsch,4Molly Horstman,5Gregory J. Moran,6Richard Colgan,7 John C. O’Horo,8Muhammad S. Ashraf,9Shannon Connolly,10Dimitri Drekonja,11Larissa Grigoryan,12, Angela Huttner,13Gweneth B. Lazenby,14,15 Lindsay Nicolle,16Anthony Schaeffer,17, Sigal Yawetz,18and Valéry Lavergne19,20 CHRONIC URINARY TRACT INFECTION SYMPTOMS advisory group. All three of our patient representatives for AND KNOWLEDGE GAPS these cUTI guidelines believe that the chronic UTI symptoms they experience are related to insufficient antibiotic treatment The evidence base for our guidelines is drawn from the general of earlier episodes of UTI. Although the medical community population of patients with complicated urinary tract infection for the most part does not accept the concept of chronic UTI (cUTI) who are healthy enough to enter a clinical trial. In this as an ongoing infection that requires long-term antibiotic sup- population, treatment is expected to relieve the symptoms of pression, we believe in listening to patients’ lived experiences. the acute infection and prevent recurrence. However, a subset The issues that concerned our three patients most were: of the cUTI population suffers from chronic urinary symptoms. Recommendations about diagnosis or treatment of chronic uri- • Chronic UTI sufferers experience debilitating symptoms that nary tract infection (UTI) are outside of the scope of our cUTI negatively impact their quality of life and can greatly reduce guidelines. However, the guidelines panelists acknowledge that their ability to function. A Twitter-based survey distributed patients who suffer from acute, recurrent, or chronic UTI through a UTI research society likewise reported that UTIs symptoms should be heard. Several large patient advocacy can drastically impact physical and mental well-being.1 groups support people who suffer from recurrent UTI or the in- • They believe that chronic UTI is caused by insufficient anti- adequately defined entity of chronic UTI. We invited three rep- biotic treatment upon initial acute infection (wrong choice, resentatives from these groups to participate in our patient wrong route of delivery, and/or wrong duration). • They believe in longer courses of antibiotic therapy for sub- sequent bouts of acute UTI. Received 29 July 2025; editorial decision 03 August 2025; published online 19 December • They believe that healthcare providers should listen to the pa- tient’s perspective on UTI symptoms. St. Louis, MO 63110 (). Patients’ Values and Preferences About Treatment Duration of Clinical Infectious Diseases® Complicated Urinary
