Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infection, funding, uti, received, symptoms, urinary, chronic, research, patient, member, tract, diseases, development, served, guidelines


healthcare providers should listen to the pa- tient’s perspective on UTI symptoms. St. Louis, MO 63110 (). Patients’ Values and Preferences About Treatment Duration of Clinical Infectious Diseases® Complicated Urinary Tract Infection From the Perspective of Patients Who © The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases Suffer Chronic Urinary Tract Infection Symptoms for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our There is little direct evidence addressing antibiotic duration in RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information cUTI and patient well-being. Consultation with patient repre- please contact . sentatives participating in this guideline revealed a disconnect Clinical Practice Guidelines for Complicated Urinary Tract Infections—Patient Perspectives • CID • 1 Downloaded from by guest on May between stewardship goals (shorter is better) and their desire to the MacDonald Research Foundation, Agency for Healthcare avoid chronic urinary symptoms (longer is better). Several of Research and Quality, VA HSR&D, Centers for Disease and their experience may be representative of a subpopulation (NIH), Mike Hogg Foundation, Neilsen Foundation, and VA that is most severely affected by UTI. Our recommendations RR&D; engaged in activity with Infectious Diseases Board current infection, we considered recurrence of infection to be a Med, and UpToDate; owns intellectual property for Phiogen critical outcome for our analyses. Pharma; and owned stocks in Abbott Laboratories, Bristol tant outcome from the patient representatives’ perspectives, B. W. T. learned of the individual stock ownership). and the duration of antibiotics chosen should be sufficient to N. W. C. -P. received funding from Duke University. ture was necessarily a goal, and they lacked confidence in the Tetraphase Pharmaceutical, Paratek Pharmaceutical, First accuracy of urine cultures at predicting urinary symptoms. Light Diagnostics, Ocean Spray Inc, Shionogi Inc, Nabriva They also valued avoiding recurrence of symptomatic infection Therapeutics, Utility Therapeutics, Qiagen Diagnostics, a shorter duration of therapy, consideration should be given to Education; receives remuneration from UpToDate, Inc, Pri- treating the recurrence with a longer course of antibiotics. Med, and PRIME Education; owned equities in Pfizer Pharmaceutical (past) and Fidelity Managed Investment Account; received research grant funding from VA Health Patient-Suggested Research Topics Our patient advisors proposed several research topics related to Services Research & Development, VA Cooperative Studies terstitial cystitis has an infectious component, comparing Diseases (NIAID), and NIH. E. B. H. receives funding from whether longer
