Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infection, funding, uti, received, symptoms, urinary, chronic, research, patient, member, tract, diseases, development, served, guidelines


research topics related to Services Research & Development, VA Cooperative Studies terstitial cystitis has an infectious component, comparing Diseases (NIAID), and NIH. E. B. H. receives funding from whether longer courses of antibiotics for acute UTIs can pre- Cystic Fibrosis Foundation; receives honoraria from SIDP; vent long-term urinary symptoms, and a study of the preva- served as an advisor for Nabriva Pharmaceuticals, Merck, lence of chronic UTI symptoms in the United States. Our GlaxoSmithKline, Paratek Pharmaceuticals, and MeMed; re- patient advisors with chronic UTI symptoms suggested that ceived funding from Merck; engages in activity with SIDP patients can be optimally evaluated and treated. ceives funding from Veterans Affairs Health Systems Research. G. M. served as an advisor for Light AI and Qiagen; received funding from Light AI, Contrafect, Nabriva, Notes and NIH; engaged in activity with Annals of Emergency Financial support. This work was supported by the Infectious Medicine; owns stock in Light AI; receives funding from Diseases Society of America. Abvacc. R. C. served as an advisor for the GlaxoSmithKline, Potential conflicts of interest. Evaluation of relationships as BioFire, and Rebiotix. J. C. O. received funding from MITRE potential conflicts of interest is determined by a review Corporation. M. S. A. received funding from Merck & process. The assessment of disclosed relationships for possible Co. Inc and Nebraska DHHS HAI/AR Program (through COIs is based on the relative weight of the financial relationship CDC grants); served as a member and vice chair of (ie, monetary amount) and the relevance of the relationship (ie, PALTmed’s Infection Advisory Committee (IAC) and chair the degree to which an association might reasonably be inter- of PALTmed’s IAC UTI workgroup; served as a member of preted by an independent observer as related to the topic or rec- ASCP’s AS and Infection Control committee; served as vice ommendation of consideration). The following panelists have president and president for Nebraska Infection Control reported relationships with the indicated companies since Network; served as a member of SHEA’s education committee 2019, when the guideline work began. B. W. T. served as an ad- and Learning CE committee; and served as member of visor for Genentech, GSK, Phiogen Pharma, and Paratek International Diseases Society of America (IDSA) antimicrobi- Pharmaceuticals; received research funding from Genentech al resistance committee; serves as board member and immedi- and Zambon Pharmaceuticals; received grant funding from ate past president for Nebraska Infection Control Network; 2
