Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infection, funding, uti, received, symptoms, urinary, chronic, research, patient, member, tract, diseases, development, served, guidelines


received research funding from Genentech al resistance committee; serves as board member and immedi- and Zambon Pharmaceuticals; received grant funding from ate past president for Nebraska Infection Control Network; 2 • CID • Trautner et al Downloaded from by guest on May serves as chair of PALTmed’s infection prevention and control & Development, Rebiotix, and AHRQ; receives funding from member of PALTmed’s state advocacy committee (previously Development, and Michael E. DeBakey Veterans Affairs Seed state-based policy and advocacy subcommittee) and clinical Grant. S. C. received honoraria for the development of sexual practice steering committee; serves as a member of CSTE and reproductive health educational materials for family physi- HAI/AR subcommittee; is a member of the SHEA Long- cians from the American Academy of Family Physicians and Term Care Special Interest Group, was a member of the California Academy of Family Physicians; and received hono- COVID-19 State Collaboration Task Force of PALTmed; raria for the development of training materials on sexual health worked on development of infection control guidance for nurs- from Quest Diagnostics. A. H. received funding from Swiss ing homes with SHEA and is working on development of infec- National Science Foundation, and serves as the ESCMID repre- tion control guidance for LTACHs and antibiotic initiation sentative on the panel. G. B. L. received honoraria from guidance for nursing homes with SHEA and also on nursing UpToDate; received funding from Lupin Pharmaceutical, home infection control educational module development for NeuMoDx, CDC, NACCHO, NIH, HRSA, DHHS, State front-line staff with SHEA; and accepted invitation to serve Office of Victims Assistance, and IDSOG. L. N. on HICPAC but onboarding was not completed. D. D. received funding from VA CSP, VA Merit Review, VA Cooperative Studies Program, CDC Tuberculosis Trials Consortium, Reference and honoraria from UpToDate. L. G. received funding 1. Valentine-King M, Laytner L, Hines-Munson C, et al. Qualitative analysis of a Twitter-disseminated survey reveals new patient perspectives on the impact of from Antibacterial Resistance Leadership Group, NIH, urinary tract infection. Antibiotics (Basel) 2022; 11:1687. doi: Clinical Practice Guidelines for Complicated Urinary Tract Infections—Patient Perspectives • CID • 3 Downloaded from by guest on May
