Genetic Testing in Youth – A Primer for Pediatric Lipidologists
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, genetic testing, pubmed, risk, familial, family, hypercholesterolemia, children, variant, familial hypercholesterolemia, variants, clinical, journal, results


ABSTRACT The genetic causes of several dyslipidemias have been identified. Our knowledge of the role of genetics in disorders affecting lipid and lipoprotein metabolism continues to improve along with advancements in technology and access of testing. Genetic testing offers diagnostic confirmation of disease, risk stratification, the ability to identify at risk biologic relatives, and individualized treatment options. While currently underutilized, genetic testing will increasingly play a key role in the treatment and management of children with lipid disorders. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION In 2003, the cost of sequencing the first human genome was $2.7 billion. This pioneering work paved the way for genetic testing to become a practical tool in clinical practice. By 2016, the cost of genetic testing was under $1,000. With the cost continuing to decline, genetic testing is being utilized more frequently to help clinicians make informed decisions about clinical care. As genetic testing plays an increasingly important role in clinical management, it has become imperative of clinicians to understand the basic principles of genetic testing to provide appropriate care and accurate counseling, especially for youth with abnormalities of lipids and lipoproteins. Although often underutilized, genetic testing helps to identify variants that play a causal role in disturbances of lipid and lipoprotein metabolism. Despite its benefits, the decision to perform a genetic test in youth requires a thorough understanding of the utility of genetic testing, as well as the nuances associated with testing of those under 18 years of age. Are youth able to understand the purpose of the test being recommended and the potential short- and long-term consequences associated with genetic test results? What rights do youth have in deciding whether to undergo testing? While many excellent and comprehensive publications are available on the genetic causes of lipid and lipoprotein disorders, the goal of this chapter is to discuss basic concepts of genetic testing and assist providers in its use, including the interpretation of test results, counseling and effective communication of results. Furthermore, this chapter will address unique aspects of genetic testing in youth and discuss future directions in the field of diagnostic genetics as it relates to the practice of pediatric lipidology. WHY IS GENETIC TESTING IMPORTANT? When correctly utilized and properly communicated, genetic testing has the potential to provide significant benefits for both clinical management and patient education ( 1
