Genetic Testing in Youth – A Primer for Pediatric Lipidologists
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, genetic testing, pubmed, risk, familial, family, hypercholesterolemia, children, variant, familial hypercholesterolemia, variants, clinical, journal, results


lipidology. WHY IS GENETIC TESTING IMPORTANT? When correctly utilized and properly communicated, genetic testing has the potential to provide significant benefits for both clinical management and patient education ( 1 ). Correct diagnosis of a genetic disorder can accurately assess risk and help inform clinical decision-making for the child as well as family members. For example, familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), a common condition (1:220), significantly increases an individual’s risk of premature cardiovascular disease (CVD) due to elevated levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) ( 2 ). Although individuals with heterozygous FH have a variable phenotype, the presence of a genetic variant results in a significantly higher risk for development of CVD due to lifelong exposure of elevated levels of atherogenic LDL-C ( 3 , 4 ). The CDC has designated FH as a Tier 1 genetic condition, with strong evidence and potential to improve public health, alongside international recommendations supporting implementation of genetic testing for FH ( 5 ). Because FH is inherited in an autosomal co-dominant manner, first degree family members of those identified with a causative FH variant have a 50% chance of being affected and are at increased risk for developing CVD prematurely. Genetic testing can assist in therapeutic decision-making for the index case and at-risk family members known to have hypercholesterolemia or identified through cascade screening ( 6 , 7 ). A government funded cascade screening program in the Netherlands identified over 30,000 genetically confirmed cases of FH – similar programs in several European countries have been successfully implemented. Value to Youth When considering FH, unique benefits exist in identifying the genotype of those under 18 years of age. While CVD-related events typically occur in adulthood, the presence of persistently elevated cholesterol levels from an early age leads to atherosclerosis, beginning in childhood ( 8 ), and plays a key role in CVD risk and progression ( 9 ). By identifying an at-risk child, properly assessing risk and initiating treatment, including early introduction of a heart-healthy lifestyle and appropriate lipid-lowering medication, risk of future ASCVD-related events such as a heart attack or stroke can be dramatically reduced ( 9 , 10 ). Furthermore, when youth are identified with FH, reverse cascade screening has the potential of identifying other affected family members. Because of its mode of inheritance, 50% of first-degree relatives of a child with genetically confirmed heterozygous FH are also affected, often unaware of their condition
