Genetic Testing in Youth – A Primer for Pediatric Lipidologists
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, genetic testing, pubmed, risk, familial, family, hypercholesterolemia, children, variant, familial hypercholesterolemia, variants, clinical, journal, results


other affected family members. Because of its mode of inheritance, 50% of first-degree relatives of a child with genetically confirmed heterozygous FH are also affected, often unaware of their condition and not receiving lipid lowering medications ( Figure 1 ) ( 11 ). Figure 1. Sample pedigree from reverse cascade screening of proband. From Journal of Pediatric Nursing , 2019, with permission. COMMON GENETIC TERMINOLOGY Proper ordering and interpretation of a genetic test requires an understanding of commonly terms used. The following list of and diagram will help clinicians develop an understanding of some of the basic concepts of and visual image involved in genetic testing. Coverage : Number of genes sequenced. Depth : Number of times each nucleotide within a gene is sequenced. Exome : Part of the genome that consists of exons. The exome accounts for roughly 1% of the genome. Exon : A segment of a gene that encodes a protein. Genome : A complete set of genetic information that provides all the necessary information required for a human to function. Intron : A noncoding region of DNA, or a segment of DNA that does not encode a protein. Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (SNP) : A common (present in >1% of population), typically low effect variant, occurring at a single nucleotide in the genome. Splicing : A process by which introns are removed from a transcript to produce mature RNA, made up of exons. Variant : An alteration in the DNA nucleotide sequence. Variants can be benign, pathogenic, or of unknown significance. Figure 2. Visual depiction of a gene, nucleotide, introns and exons, splicing, and genome and exome sequencing. AVAILABLE GENETIC TESTING Targeted Panel When considering conditions with known causal genetic loci, such as FH, targeted panels are often considered as a primary testing method. Four genes – LDLR , APOB , PCSK9 , and LDLRAP1 – are principally considered when identifying pathogenic variants causing FH. While coverage is low (i.e., 4 genes), depth – depending on the performing laboratory – is high, often 100X or more, up to 1,000X. Targeted panels are most accurate when used to identify variants in exons and smaller deletions or duplications. Using a combination of next generation sequencing technologies, Sanger sequencing, and deletion/duplication analysis, genetic variation often identified with >99% sensitivity and specificity. Introns are typically not sequenced beyond +/- 10 to 15 exon flanking base pairs. Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) As
