Genetic Testing in Youth – A Primer for Pediatric Lipidologists
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, genetic testing, pubmed, risk, familial, family, hypercholesterolemia, children, variant, familial hypercholesterolemia, variants, clinical, journal, results


deletion/duplication analysis, genetic variation often identified with >99% sensitivity and specificity. Introns are typically not sequenced beyond +/- 10 to 15 exon flanking base pairs. Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) As NGS technologies continue to evolve and cost declines, sequencing DNA of higher volume has become more feasible. WES allows for sequencing of all protein coding regions of a person’s genome—also known as the exome—along with flanking intronic regions. WES is often performed when the differential diagnosis is unclear or broad, or after a targeted genetic testing returns negative. In the case of FH, WES can be helpful when no known variant is found in a traditional targeted panel. Several other conditions affecting lipid metabolism with known genetic variants – in APOE , ABCG5 , ABCG8 , LIPA , etc. – can produce a “FH phenotype,” in which conditions associated with variants in these genes create an overlap in elevated LDL-C levels with those seen in pathogenic FH variant carriers. Coverage in WES is high (i.e., 95 to >99% of the exome), while depth is often 20X up to 100X. Secondary Findings It is important to note that targeted panels inclusive of candidate genes and WES have the potential for identifying unintentional or secondary findings. For example, certain variants in APOE are associated with a FH phenotype; however, other APOE variants are associated with a predisposition for Alzheimer’s disease. When WES is performed, secondary findings for variants in gene sites unrelated to the condition under suspicion can occur. For example, WES ordered for suspicion of FH could identify variants in BRCA1 / 2 associated with a predisposition to develop breast or ovarian cancer, which carry implications for other potentially affected family members. When secondary findings are identified, it is helpful to refer the family to either to a geneticist or other qualified specialist. However, secondary findings can be excluded, directed by the preferences of family and provider. Concerns about secondary findings in WES and targeted panels can be alleviated by masking extraneous results. Should Family Members Be Tested? Low or no cost genetic testing is sometimes offered to family members to both identify additional at-risk family members and help inform genotype/phenotype correlations for more accurate classification of gene variants. INTERPRETING TEST RESULTS How Are Genetic Variants Classified? Understanding the classification of an individual’s genetic variant can be a daunting task. No standardization of classification is uniformly adhered to, with each genomics
