Genetic Testing in Youth – A Primer for Pediatric Lipidologists
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, genetic testing, pubmed, risk, familial, family, hypercholesterolemia, children, variant, familial hypercholesterolemia, variants, clinical, journal, results


RESULTS How Are Genetic Variants Classified? Understanding the classification of an individual’s genetic variant can be a daunting task. No standardization of classification is uniformly adhered to, with each genomics laboratory offering their own definition or algorithm for classification. This ultimately results in the potential for one laboratory to define a variant as benign, while another may define the same variant as pathogenic. To further complicate matters, classification for each variant is subject to change as new and additional data about the variant is considered ( 12 ). Interpretation of a pathogenic classification is the most straightforward. In the case of FH, the observed variant is considered to be the cause of the phenotype based on sufficient evidence of 1) the variant type, and 2) other individuals previously identified with the same variant. Interpretation becomes more complicated in those with a variant of unknown significance (VUS) and for individuals in whom no mutation is identified. When faced with a VUS, it is important to consider how important additional data is in determining a causal link between a VUS and the clinical condition. Fortunately, many, but not all, genetic testing laboratories offer first degree relatives testing at low or no cost. Familial testing provides additional data to assist in more accurate classification of the finding in question, and guides health care decision-making. In the case of a negative result, it is important to understand any limitations that exist with the test that was ordered. If a targeted panel for FH is performed and no mutation is found, 1) the test ordered may not cover all known variant sites; 2) additional potential variants exist; and 3) additional testing (WES) may be helpful. COMMUNICATING TEST RESULTS What Is The Role Of A Genetic Counselor? Given the complex nature of genetic testing as a diagnostic tool, genetic testing plays a crucial role in youth and family members understanding of the risks and benefits of testing ( 13 ). However, genetic counseling is highly underutilized in current clinical practice ( 5 ). Counseling is a process that should begin prior to testing, and should continue after as a conversation with both the child, when appropriate, and their family. Prior to testing, the child and family should be informed of: the suspected condition and how genetics may play a role, the possible benefits and risks of performing testing, and the potential of discovering uncertain or secondary
