Genetic Testing in Youth – A Primer for Pediatric Lipidologists
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, genetic testing, pubmed, risk, familial, family, hypercholesterolemia, children, variant, familial hypercholesterolemia, variants, clinical, journal, results


should be informed of: the suspected condition and how genetics may play a role, the possible benefits and risks of performing testing, and the potential of discovering uncertain or secondary findings. After completion, test results and interpretation of their impact on both direct patient care and family members should be discussed. If necessary, counseling for family planning and any further testing should be provided. What Is The Potential Impact Of Genetic Testing Upon The Child? The Family? Proper communication of genetic test results and counseling provide the child and family information of high utility, usually with minimal adverse impact ( 14 ). In 2017, Hallowell et al. found during interviews of patients treated for FH who were the first to be genetically tested in their family, testing was considered beneficial, as it provided patients with an origin of their disease and assessed their own and their family members’ risk ( 15 ). The majority of parents of children with FH want their children to be tested ( 16 ) and children have been found to understand and articulate their understanding of testing being conducted ( 17 ). A majority of families do not report psychological problems due to a diagnosis of FH ( 18 ). WHAT’S NEXT? Progression of genetic testing has resulted in slowly changing the paradigm of clinical practice. Having most recently experienced the evolution of evidence-based medicine, we are entering an era of personalized medicine, and eventually, predictive medicine. In the coming years, existing methods and results will become better understood, and additional testing will likely become more affordable, accurate, and widely used, leading to a potential shift in the clinical focus from phenotype to genotype. Genomic Medicine The current focus of genetic testing involves sequencing of exomes, accounting for only 1% of the genome. In contrast, whole genome sequencing (WGS) offers sequencing of both exons – protein encoding regions – and introns, containing regulatory information which controls exon splicing, transcription, and translation. Deep intronic variants are currently associated with over 75 genetic conditions ( 19 ). RNA testing also offers similar benefits to WGS without having to analyze such a large volume of data. RNA testing potentially identifies any errors, including intronic variants, leading to incorrect splicing or transcript sequence. In the realm of lipidology, those with FH caused by a variant affecting apolipoprotein B (apoB) may have the most to benefit from RNA testing. ApoB
