Genetic Testing in Youth – A Primer for Pediatric Lipidologists
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, genetic testing, pubmed, risk, familial, family, hypercholesterolemia, children, variant, familial hypercholesterolemia, variants, clinical, journal, results


splicing or transcript sequence. In the realm of lipidology, those with FH caused by a variant affecting apolipoprotein B (apoB) may have the most to benefit from RNA testing. ApoB circulates in 2 forms: apoB48, produced by the small intestine, and apoB100, produced by the liver, the latter involved in LDL assembly and uptake of LDL-C by the LDL receptor. Both forms are encoded by a single APOB gene, which undergoes a RNA editing process, producing both forms ( 20 ). In the future, investigating transcription and translation of APOB may prove useful in determining etiology of disease in patients with a currently unidentified variant. Predictive Medicine A significant portion of the general population, including those with a monogenic cause of FH, contain variants in genes associated with elevated cholesterol and CVD risk other than LDLR , APOB , PCSK9 , and LDLRAP1 . These SNPs in “low effect genes,” or genetic locations that do not greatly affect the phenotype, when cumulatively expressed, alter both cholesterol and CVD risk. LDL and CAD polygenic risk scores have proven to be accurate and appear to be nearing their time in clinical care ( 21 - 25 ). Screening and Preventive Medicine Considering the future of current methodologies, genetic testing of youth and their parents has proven feasible and effective in the UK, and universal phenotypic screening of young children in the US is currently recommended ( 2 , 26 ). The first successfully implemented universal pediatric FH screening initiative occurred in Slovenia in 1995, within which a two-step approach was utilized – conducting universal biochemical cholesterol testing at 5 years of age, followed by genetic testing for those with elevated total cholesterol ( 7 ). FH also has potential to be a target for prenatal testing ( 27 ). Bellow et al. combined UK Biobank whole exome data with NHANES survey data, creating a predictive model which would yield 3.7, 3.8, and 6.6 identified FH cases per 1,000 people through clinical criteria alone, genetic testing alone, and combining clinical criteria and genetic testing, respectively ( 28 ). By combining established universal phenotypic childhood screening 29 with reflex genetic and parental testing, the potential exists to identify every existing case of FH within one generation of testing. From then on, targeted testing of affected patient’s children would identify future cases. SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR YOUTH While benefits exist that are unique to a pediatric
