Genetic Testing in Youth – A Primer for Pediatric Lipidologists
KEYWORDS: testing, genetic, genetic testing, pubmed, risk, familial, family, hypercholesterolemia, children, variant, familial hypercholesterolemia, variants, clinical, journal, results


one generation of testing. From then on, targeted testing of affected patient’s children would identify future cases. SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR YOUTH While benefits exist that are unique to a pediatric population, additional unique circumstances should be also be considered when testing a child for a condition in which the onset occurs during adulthood. Should Children Be Given A Choice? The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) advocates for youth to have an increasingly important role in their own health care decision-making as they age and mature. From a legal perspective, virtually no legal rights exist, nor are protections in place, to ensure a child possesses any autonomy in the decision-making process of their health care ( 30 ). The decision whether to include the child in the decision-making process is ultimately left to the child’s parents and health care provider. Should Testing Be Deferred Until A Child Is 18 Years-Of-Age Or Older? In 2013, the AAP and American College of Medical Genetics (ACMG) released a joint policy statement on the use of genetic testing and screening of children ( 31 ), agreeing that the principal factor in determining whether to offer genetic testing should be the best interest of the child. When considering FH, clear benefit exists in testing of children, as atherosclerosis can be reduced or prevented with early identification and treatment, ultimately reducing CVD risk. Do The Results Of Genetic Testing Create The Potential For Discrimination? Once a child has undergone testing, results are entered into the clinical record. The 2008 Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) protects individuals from discrimination in health insurance and employment based on genetic information; however, individuals are not protected against discrimination in life or disability insurance. All of this must be weighed and discussed in the benefit-to-risk analysis when ordering a genetic testing involving a child. Whenever possible, the child should be provided age and developmentally appropriate information, allowed to participate in the discussion, encouraged to ask questions and share concerns, and help formulate the best course of action. SUMMARY Genetic testing offers 1) diagnostic confirmation; 2) enhanced risk assessment; 3) an ability to identify affected family members; and 4) the opportunity to individualized treatment options. Lipidologists are encouraged to use this emerging technology judiciously, mindful of the unique needs of youth. In the near future, genetic testing will likely be used on a wide scale to screen children and family members at-risk of
