1742 Gut 1994;35: 1742-1746
KEYWORDS: cell, crypt, rate, egf, cells, tissue, production, production rate, crypt cell, proliferation, patients, growth, cell production, rectal, index


cell (4 0)%, and the native mitotic index 1'08 lines can respond to EGF by increasing their (0. 14)%. Thecellcycletimewasestimated rate ofproliferation, and this may be an EGF as 94 5 hours and the time for mitosis as stimulatedautocrineeffect.3233 one hour. Thus, calcipotriol and EGF We have therefore compared the effect of have divergent effects on human rectal calcipotriol and EGF on macroscopically mucosalproliferation. normal rectal mucosa obtained from patients (Gut 1994;35: 1742-1746) with FAP. We have used a stathmokinetic technique to determine crypt cell production rate and immunohistochemistry to estimate Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) has the cell cycle time. a well recognised genetic basis, which is characterisedbythe developmentofnumerous adenomas throughout the gastrointestinal Methods Departments of Surgery tract.1-3 There may also be a hereditary MGThomas component to the adenomas that occur in CLINICALMATERIAL RCNWilliamson family cancer syndrome patients, as well as Paired rectal biopsy specimens were taken andHistopathology, many cases of sporadic adenomas.46 from 14patientswithFAP (meanage42years, RoyalPostgraduate Mutations of the adenomatous polyposis coli range 29-65), who had previously undergone M H e a d n i u c m a e l rs Sc m h i o t o h l, (APC) gene are known to cause familial total abdominal colectomy with ileorectal GRBrown (mutatedincoloncancer) geneismutated and of 16 years (range 2-37). All patients MRAllison deletedinsporadiccoloncancers.8Indeed, the were attending regularly for follow up. Correspondenceto: protein structures of the gene products of Specimensweretakenbetween0900 and 1200 ProfessorRCNWilliamson, the MCC and APC gene are thought to be during an outpatient visit. The patients were RoyalPostgraduateMedical School,Hammersmith similar.9 These findings, together with the examined sigmoidoscopically, and a rectal LondonWI2ONN. carcinomasequence, suggestthatpatientswith macroscopically normal rectal mucosa. One Acceptedforpublication 23March1994 FAP are good models for the development of specimen from each patient was examined Divergenteffectsofepidermalgrowthfactorandcalcipotriolonhumanrectalcellproliferation 1743 histologically to exclude the presence of immersion microscopy. The total number of microadenomas, and sections from this tissue cells was counted in atleast 10 crypts, and the were also used for immunohistochemical meannumberofmetaphaseswas countedinat analysis. The other sample was divided into least 20 crypts per specimen to determine the small pieces, and these explants were used in mean native mitotic index (In) expressed as the organ culture studies. Therectaltissuewas mitoses/1000 cells. cultured with either EGF 10 ng/ml (n=8) or calcipotriol 1X10-6 M (n=6). IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY CHEMICALS EGFreceptor The synthetic vitamin D analogue calcipotriol To discoveriftheEGFreceptorwasexpressed (MC-903 in isopropyl alcohol, Leo in the tissue from the eight patients used to Pharmaceutical,
