1742 Gut 1994;35: 1742-1746
KEYWORDS: cell, crypt, rate, egf, cells, tissue, production, production rate, crypt cell, proliferation, patients, growth, cell production, rectal, index


calcipotriol 1X10-6 M (n=6). IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY CHEMICALS EGFreceptor The synthetic vitamin D analogue calcipotriol To discoveriftheEGFreceptorwasexpressed (MC-903 in isopropyl alcohol, Leo in the tissue from the eight patients used to Pharmaceutical, Ballerup, Denmark) was study the effects of EGF, control tissue - added to culture medium to produce a stock that is, tissue not used in the organ culture solution with a final concentration of 1X10-6 experiments - was stained with the AP12E M MC-903 and was stored at 20°C until use. polyclonal antibody using an immunoperoxi- The control medium was prepared with a dase method. Immunohistochemical staining similardilution ofalcohol. was performed on 3 ,um thick sections Mouse salivary gland epidermal growth dewaxed in xylene and passed through serial factor (Sigma, Poole, UK) was added to organ dilutions of alcohol. Endogenous peroxidase culture medium to produce a stock solution activity was blocked with 03% H202 in containing 10 ng/ml ofthepeptide. phosphate buffered saline for 30 minutes. Proliferating cell nuclear antigen, which is Three sets of slides were then prepared, one expressed by all cells within the proliferative test and two control slides. To the first slide compartment ofnormal gastrointestinal tissue, anti-EGF receptor rabbit polyclonal antibody was labelled using PCI0, a monoclonal (AP12E) was added (170 ,ug/ml diluted 1:40), antibody directed against proliferating cell to the second slide TRIS buffer was added polyclonal antibody directed against EGF were added (4 ,ug/ml anti-EGF receptor with receptor, was supplied by Dr W Gullick, 10 ng/ml free peptide). The TRIS buffer RPMS, London. and free peptide slides were used as negative controls. Slideswereleftforonehourandthen washed three times with TRIS buffer. A ORGAN CULTUREAND CRYPTCELL second layer consisting of biotinylated swine PRODUCTION RATE antirabbit IgG (1:300 in TRIS buffer) was Rectal crypt cell production rate was deter- applied for a period ofone hour. After rinsing mined by a previously reported and validated the slides three times in TRIS buffer, a third technique.16 1920 Briefly, rectal explants were layer consisting of a peroxidase conjugated orientated on metal grids within an organ avidin-biotin complex (ABC, Dakopatts, UK), culture dish. In paired studies, the tissue was applied for 45 minutes. The slides were was cultured with or without the addition of againrinsedthreetimesinTRISbuffer. Lastly, either calcipotriol (n=6) or EGF (n=8). diaminobenzidine solution 250 ,ug with Thus, each patient's tissue acted as its own 0-037% H202 (to show peroxidase activity) control. After 15 hours ofculture, vincristine wasappliedforfiveminutes,before slideswere 0-6 ,ug/ml (Oncovin, Eli
