Emergencies Related to Pheochromocytoma/Paraganglioma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: ppgl, severe, clinical, disease, acute, hypercatecholaminemia, hypertension, patient, hypertensive, catecholamine, crisis, surgery, therapy, adrenoceptor, case


INTRODUCTION Pheochromocytomas (PCCs) and paragangliomas (PGLs) are rare chromaffin cells tumors (PPGLs) characterized by the production, storage, metabolism, and secretion of catecholamines and their metabolites, metanephrines and methoxytyramine. These tumors can raise significant challenges in clinical recognition, diagnosis, and therapy and when undiagnosed can result in severe morbidity as well as mortality, especially due to cardiovascular system toxicity. Despite anatomical dissimilarity – PCC arising from adrenal medulla and PGLs from extra-adrenal sympathetic or parasympathetic paraganglia – these tumors display common embryonic origin, enzymatic milieu, and the ability to produce catecholamines and their metabolites. While once thought as mostly benign and biochemically active, these tumors can show a wide spectrum of cellular and biochemical dedifferentiation, including an aggressive metastatic course and biochemical silence. The PPGL field has undergone a significant transformation in recent years. We now know that PPGLs represent the highest hereditary-driven endocrine condition with up to 40% of cases related to mutations in 15 well-established driver genes and a growing number of disease-modifying genes (now about 25). We now also appreciate that a significant proportion of what previously was thought to be almost exclusively benign disease is actually malignant and can display biochemical silence and a specific secretory profile with mainly elevated norepinephrine and/or dopamine. Unfortunately, and despite tremendous advances in our understanding of the biology of PPGLs, the severity of disease-associated morbidity still remains significant since most of these tumors are not well recognized and diagnosis is delayed. Definition What would define actual urgency or emergency in PPGL? Is it a biochemical phenotype closely associated with a particular catecholamine secretion or various biomarkers suggestive of dedifferentiation and thus a malignant course, disease symptomatology, or the rapidity of disease progression? Is it an overall basic patient’s health status that can rapidly deteriorate or the expected complications from surgery? Is it the level of comfort and experience of the managing endocrinologist or abilities of the operating surgeon or possible lack of these? Or maybe it is the ability of the patient to follow-up frequently enough for appropriate management or the affordability of tests and medications or lack of those (some due to their price) which would eventually associate with a grim outcome. At the end of the day, it is probably all of the above and even more including some psychological aspects and fear to develop metastatic disease. Any disease that can potentially deteriorate to severely morbid outcomes needs to
