Emergencies Related to Pheochromocytoma/Paraganglioma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: ppgl, severe, clinical, disease, acute, hypercatecholaminemia, hypertension, patient, hypertensive, catecholamine, crisis, surgery, therapy, adrenoceptor, case


probably all of the above and even more including some psychological aspects and fear to develop metastatic disease. Any disease that can potentially deteriorate to severely morbid outcomes needs to be seen as urgent and emergent most of the time. Obviously, in the case of a severe hypertensive crisis in the operating room that developed shortly after a previously undiagnosed/misdiagnosed abdominal mass was manipulated, the diagnosis that will drive appropriate therapy will be acute catecholamine crisis and there is a universal awareness of such a situation. Same should be true in case of severe therapy-resistant hypertension which rapidly deteriorates with use of β-adrenoceptor blockers. Unfortunately, there are many other possible scenarios that could start relatively slow and rapidly deteriorate to true medical emergencies. An example is our recent case that shows all aspects of PPGL management, including emergencies. A young female in late pregnancy was admitted for increased BP, thought to be related to noncompliance with BP medications and possible development of pre-eclampsia. Because of resistance to therapy while hospitalized the patient had an assessment of plasma catecholamines, which came back markedly elevated. Her imaging studies showed a 12 cm abdominal PGL with the fetus’ head laying directly on it. The tumor was massively vascularized and engulfed major abdominal vessels. The team that discussed her management could fill a lecture hall and included obstetrics, gynecologic surgery, endocrine surgery, general surgery, vascular surgery, anesthesiology, neonatology ICU, medical ICU, endocrinology, nursing and many more. All of the above worked hard on the day of combined caesarian section delivery and open abdominal surgery, which was complicated, but resulted in full recovery for both mother and baby. CLINICAL ASPECTS Clinical course and outcomes of excessive catecholamine secretion by PPGLs closely correlate with multiple factors related to the biochemistry of catecholamine action, secretory profile, acuity, and severity of actual hypercatecholaminemia. This gets very complicated by the fact that clinical symptomatology of hypercatecholaminemia lacks specificity and often presents as much more prevalent conditions, like hypertension, anxiety, or cardiac arrhythmias. If there is a single most important factor to define the overall outcome of the disease, we personally would pick timely suspicion and initiation of appropriate workup. While hypertension – paroxysmal or sustained – usually represents the initial or most common symptom, the overall clinical symptomatology varies widely and is summarized in Table 1 . Table 1. Clinical Syndromes Related to PPGL View in own window Organ
