Emergencies Related to Pheochromocytoma/Paraganglioma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: ppgl, severe, clinical, disease, acute, hypercatecholaminemia, hypertension, patient, hypertensive, catecholamine, crisis, surgery, therapy, adrenoceptor, case


initial or most common symptom, the overall clinical symptomatology varies widely and is summarized in Table 1 . Table 1. Clinical Syndromes Related to PPGL View in own window Organ Syndrome Mechanism Receptor action Heart Angina Heart attack Cardiomyopathies Myocarditis Arrythmias Heart failure Coronary spasm Positive inotropy Positive chronotropy Unmatched O 2 demand Hypoperfusion Coronary α 1 , β 2 Conducting system β 1 , β 2 Conducting β 1 , β 2 Brain Stroke Encephalopathy Vasoconstriction Unmatched O 2 demand Hypoperfusion Cerebral arterioles α 1 Effect of systemic HTN Vascular Shock Postural hypotension Aortic dissection Organ ischemia Limb ischemia Arteriolar vasoconstriction Arteriolar vasodilation Vasodilation Unmatched O 2 demand Hypoperfusion Vascular α 1 , α 2 , β 2 Kidneys ARF Hematuria Vasoconstriction Vasodilation Increased renin secretion Unmatched O 2 demand Hypoperfusion Vascular α 1 , α 2 , β 1 , β 2 Lungs Pulmonary edema ARDS Fibrosis Pulmonary HTN Vasoconstriction Vasodilation Bronchodilation Vascular α 1 , α 2 , β 2 GI Intestinal ischemia Vasoconstriction Unmatched O 2 demand Hypoperfusion Visceral arterioles α 1 , β 2 Physiology of Catecholamine Action Catecholamine production takes place in both adrenals, as well as sympathetic paraganglia. The synthetic pathway is specific for the abovementioned organs, defined by the unique set of intracellular enzymes able to convert the amino acid tyrosine to end product epinephrine or norepinephrine, dependent on the site of the synthesis. The actual catecholamine is related to the site/type of the cell, as well as degree or differentiation or lack of such ( Figure 1 ). The transport of tyrosine through the cell membrane is active process and carried out by a member of the amino acid transporter family – large neutral amino acid transporters of the L family, mostly LAT1. These transporters can be induced and show overexpression, especially in some cancers. Dedifferentiated/malignant PPGL can produce a phenomenon of massive or predominantly norepinephrine production/secretion profile driven by the both overexpressed LAT1 and the lack of phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT) – the enzyme that converts norepinephrine to epinephrine. Figure 1. Catecholamine Synthesis Although currently we manage both conditions as part of a single syndrome, the physiology of catecholamine production and secretion from both systems is relatively distinct. Adrenals – the mastermind of the fight and flight response – are designed to produce significant amounts of epinephrine/adrenaline, to be secreted in response to stress. The secretion pattern is episodic/paroxysmal and relatively
