Emergencies Related to Pheochromocytoma/Paraganglioma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: ppgl, severe, clinical, disease, acute, hypercatecholaminemia, hypertension, patient, hypertensive, catecholamine, crisis, surgery, therapy, adrenoceptor, case


mastermind of the fight and flight response – are designed to produce significant amounts of epinephrine/adrenaline, to be secreted in response to stress. The secretion pattern is episodic/paroxysmal and relatively short lived. Epinephrine, the end-product of the synthetic pathway, is stored in secretory granules and secreted on an as-needed basis. Norepinephrine in this case is a co-secretory catecholamine, somewhat different in affinity to adrenergic receptors – through which both substances are signaling ( Figure 2 and 3 ). In cases of catecholamine-producing tumors, the pattern of secretion can vary between paroxysmal or sustained, while the ratio between two catecholamines relates to some degree to the level of differentiation of the adenomatous tissue. Sympathetic paraganglia, on the other hand, is mostly involved in production of norepinephrine as a major sympathetic neurotransmitter rather than as a systemic hormone. The product is mostly secreted into the synaptic space, which than spills over into the systemic circulation. In the physiologic state, a significant amount of norepinephrine re-uptake back into the pre-synapse for repeated use occurs. In the case of PGLs, the increased amount of product reaches the systemic circulation to produce symptoms and signs indistinguishable from adrenally secreted norepinephric clinical picture of adrenergic overactivity. Figure 2. Adrenergic Receptors and Ligands Figure 3. Catecholamine Secretion Catecholamines, both epinephrine and norepinephrine act through activation of the G protein coupled adrenergic receptors (GPCRs), both α 1 and 2 and β 1 and 2 with minor difference in the fact that norepinephrine has lower affinity to β 2 -adrenoceptors and thus norepinephric hypercatecholaminemia lack a mild component of peripheral vasodilation and could have slightly different clinical appearance compared to purely epinephric hypercatecholaminemia Table 1 and Figure 2 ). As with other GPCRs, adrenoceptors can undergo desensitization, which could explain the different clinical presentations in relatively mild long-standing disease compared to more rapidly developing hypercatecholaminemia. One also needs to remember that in massive biochemical hypercatecholaminemia, competitive α- and β-adrenoceptor blockers could be overwhelmed by the concentration of the ligand and safe preoperative adrenoceptor blockade can take longer to achieve and can be partial rather than complete. Clinical Features Hypercatecholaminemia-related endocrine emergencies define rare, but truly severe and potentially deadly end of the clinical spectrum of the PPGL syndrome. While it is called a great masquerader, this is misleading because it is not that the disease that masquerades, but rather because of the fact that clinical symptomology is completely non-specific
