Emergencies Related to Pheochromocytoma/Paraganglioma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: ppgl, severe, clinical, disease, acute, hypercatecholaminemia, hypertension, patient, hypertensive, catecholamine, crisis, surgery, therapy, adrenoceptor, case


it is called a great masquerader, this is misleading because it is not that the disease that masquerades, but rather because of the fact that clinical symptomology is completely non-specific and lacks any definitive symptom or signs that would point towards PPGL as a sole contender. It rather presents with symptoms and signs of much more prevalent conditions – like hypertension, benign cardiac arrhythmias, anxiety – and thus, progresses towards acute or chronic complications without being suspected. Needless to say, that unless the disease is severe or acute, it could be treated as a mainstay symptom-driven state – like hypertension – with at least some success. Clinical emergencies, related to the PPGL represent a completely different scenario – these are usually either unsuspected or only partially treated cases with severe short-term morbidity and significant mortality. In these cases, clinical suspicion is an absolute cornerstone of the management and the delay in diagnosis is adversely proportional to the overall outcome. Clinical scenarios with resultant PPGL-related emergencies usually include unrelated surgeries, where overall stress or tumor manipulation results in massive and acute hypercatecholaminemia with fully sensitized adrenergic receptors and lack of any adrenoceptor blockade, which precipitates acute and severe hypertensive crisis and potentially multiorgan failure. Less dramatic, but still a potentially severe condition includes treating progressive hypertension in the general or obstetric population with a medication that predisposes to unopposed α-adrenoceptor stimulation and thus precipitates severe peripheral vasoconstriction and either worsening of hypertension or heart failure. Obviously, patients with pre-existing heart or renal failure will be much more susceptible to severe outcomes. Because of the fact that some tumors express slow biochemical progression, we need to keep a high index of suspicion not only for patients with resistant HTN, familial HTN, or young age of onset, but for any patient who might have potential to have this disease. Acute vs chronic hypercatecholaminemia While an acute increase in catecholamine levels is directly responsible for precipitation of a hypertensive crisis through vascular vasoconstriction and positive inotropy, a long-lasting increase in catecholamine levels, especially of relatively mild degree, can be completely asymptomatic. This can probably be explained to some degree by several physiologic processes, including desensitization of the adrenergic receptors. Slowly progressive disease will mask, at least partially, clinical symptomatology, as well as allow sometime for the patient to try antihypertensive, antiarrhythmic, or antianxiety therapies as part of the therapy for aforementioned nonspecific conditions, as
