Emergencies Related to Pheochromocytoma/Paraganglioma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: ppgl, severe, clinical, disease, acute, hypercatecholaminemia, hypertension, patient, hypertensive, catecholamine, crisis, surgery, therapy, adrenoceptor, case


at least partially, clinical symptomatology, as well as allow sometime for the patient to try antihypertensive, antiarrhythmic, or antianxiety therapies as part of the therapy for aforementioned nonspecific conditions, as well as clinically desensitize the patient to mild hypertensive symptoms. As mentioned above, clinical scenarios will mostly associate with unrelated surgeries, obstetric conditions like delivery and pre-eclampsia, as well as sudden or rapidly progressive deterioration of a previously stable person with significant conditions that would be sensitive to rapid increases in BP, pulse rate, or overall oxygen requirement. Currently, there is a well-accepted awareness, especially in the operating/delivery rooms, that sudden and rapid increases in systolic BP must be treated immediately by medications capable to act in the hypercatecholaminemic state. There is also a sufficient awareness of predominant β-adrenoceptor activity of labetalol, which could provide only partial α-blockage and be insufficient alone in full hypercatecholaminemic crisis. On the other hand, IV phentolamine is not a readily available operating room medication and this leaves nitroprusside as a medication mostly available in the operating room settings. Its use for prolonged and complicated surgery or delivery could possibly be associated with generation of methemoglobin and thiocyanite in the patient or the newborn. Because of the fact that majority of acute and severe hypercatecholaminemic states will have either mixed adrenergic/noradrenergic or noradrenergic biochemical phenotype, there is less expectation of β 2 -adrenoceptor driven vasodilation and orthostasis. Severe vs mild hypercatecholaminemia It is accepted that patients with mild hypercatecholaminemia can be relatively asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic with some response to the usual antihypertensive therapy, thus disease can be present for a significant length of time undiagnosed. Severe hypercatecholaminemia, on the other hand, is markedly symptomatic and should be suspected right away. Clinical problems arise in cases when this happens during unrelated surgeries, as stated above, especially when an unrecognized abdominal mass, which in this case will be a PGL, is manipulated and releases massive amounts of pre-synthesized catecholamines. These cases are rare and close to impossible to predict, but in cases of severe intra-operative or intra-labor hypertension, should be immediately suspected and treated. Another scenario represents rapidly progressive disease in a younger patient – these are usually familial paragangliomas that can rapidly progress and metastasize. In this case, younger patients present with what suggest anxiety, especially in patients with an episodic secretory profile. Appropriate diagnosis can be significantly delayed when these patients enter the “outpatient
