Emergencies Related to Pheochromocytoma/Paraganglioma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: ppgl, severe, clinical, disease, acute, hypercatecholaminemia, hypertension, patient, hypertensive, catecholamine, crisis, surgery, therapy, adrenoceptor, case


In this case, younger patients present with what suggest anxiety, especially in patients with an episodic secretory profile. Appropriate diagnosis can be significantly delayed when these patients enter the “outpatient workup mode” with infrequent appointments to assess the efficacy of anti-anxiety medications. This delay in diagnosis can associate with development of significant complications in patients with other pre-existing conditions. Obviously, acute concomitant illnesses will precipitate acute hypertensive crisis. Although over-suspicion could result in significant number of questionably necessary tests, it seems reasonable to test keeping in mind potentially morbid outcomes of severe untreated hypercatecholaminemia. Episodic vs continuous secretion Both episodic and sustained secretion of catecholamines can produce hypertension as well as an acute crisis. One can argue that the episodic form is more symptomatic owing to the nature of an on and off symptomatology that can be easier to detect for both the patient and the physician. We are not aware of differential adrenoceptor desensitization of episodic hypercatecholaminemia when compared to a persistent secretory state. Both forms are capable of rapid secretion of massive amounts of catecholamines in case of stress or manipulation, so the actual presentation or management of acute hypertensive emergency will not differ. Large vs small mass Historically, the size of the mass was thought to be proportional to the biochemical activity of PCC, with the exception of larger tumors, which were thought to overgrow their vascular supply, become necrotic and decrease the ability to be significantly active biochemically. Current knowledge complicates this to a significant degree because of several added details. The degree of differentiation of PPGL can massively affect both the actual profile of the secreted catecholamines (the higher the differentiation, the more probable the synthetic catecholamine pathway leads to epinephrine), as well as the amount of secreted catecholamines, where lesser differentiation could associate with a significant decrease in the amount of the synthetic catecholamine. One should also remember that larger intra-abdominal masses can also result in local tissue invasion, including large or multiple vessels, adjacent organs etc. In this case, knowing the anatomical relationship between the tumor and the adjacent tissues can help avoid a potentially prolonged and complicated surgery. We are also historically aware of the fact that the actual size of the adrenal tumor correlates with possible metastatic/malignant state/course. In PPGL this postulate is also relative, making genetic milieu more important factor for the prediction of malignancy (like SDHB mutation or younger
