Emergencies Related to Pheochromocytoma/Paraganglioma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: ppgl, severe, clinical, disease, acute, hypercatecholaminemia, hypertension, patient, hypertensive, catecholamine, crisis, surgery, therapy, adrenoceptor, case


adrenal tumor correlates with possible metastatic/malignant state/course. In PPGL this postulate is also relative, making genetic milieu more important factor for the prediction of malignancy (like SDHB mutation or younger age), then the actual size of the initial adrenal mass. It worth mentioning that multiple masses and PGLs per se will have a higher predisposition to malignancy as compared to a single adrenal pheochromocytoma. In any case, finding a small PPGL and assuming that there would be no significant hypercatecholaminemia during stress or surgery is as wrong as finding a large mass and assuming that it had outgrown the vascular supply and thus is necrotic and incapable of acute delivery of massive hypercatecholaminemia. Pheochromocytoma vs paraganglioma The division of PPGL tumors into PCC and PGL is mostly anatomical rather than functional. The only major difference is that PCCs express significantly higher content of PNMT and thus higher probability of predominantly the adrenergic or mixed biochemical phenotype, as compared to predominantly noradrenergic phenotype of PGLs. With that said, the actual profile will strongly depend on the degree of tumor differentiation, as well as possibility of mixed PPGL cases. Another possible cause of differences in the acute conditions associated with different PPGL tumors is the fact that adrenal incidentalomas are readily diagnosed on unrelated imaging studies, especially in recent years when both chest and abdominal CT scans, which both image adrenal glands, are done for progressively increasing number of conditions. PGL are frequently missed, especially in cases where clinical symptomatology is less severe or the patient is young and is otherwise seen as “healthy”. Acute and severe hypercatecholaminemic crisis can occur when a previously unknown abdominal or chest mass is seen during unrelated surgery or invasive procedure and is manipulated, causing release of massive amount of pre-synthesized catecholamines. In these cases, surgical awareness of uncommon locations and anesthesiology readiness for appropriate therapy of potentially life-threatening crisis is the true cornerstone of the management of this endocrine emergency. Single tumor vs metastatic disease The main difference in the approach to the possibility of metastatic disease is based on the expectation that rapid postoperative withdrawal of adrenoceptor blockade will associate with rebound hypertensive crisis. In addition to this, possibility of distant metastatic disease with significant morbidity associated with involvement of affected organs needs to be kept in mind. Spontaneous vs familial/syndromal case Recent years have tremendously changed many aspects of our understanding of the
