Emergencies Related to Pheochromocytoma/Paraganglioma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: ppgl, severe, clinical, disease, acute, hypercatecholaminemia, hypertension, patient, hypertensive, catecholamine, crisis, surgery, therapy, adrenoceptor, case


significant morbidity associated with involvement of affected organs needs to be kept in mind. Spontaneous vs familial/syndromal case Recent years have tremendously changed many aspects of our understanding of the biology and management of the PPGL particularly the progress in understanding the genetics of the disease. While possibility of a genetically driven condition should be increased in younger patients or ones with a positive family history, finding a predominantly noradrenergic biochemical phenotype, multiple masses on imaging studies, or additional clinical findings – thyroid nodules happen to be medullary thyroid cancer (MTC), renal tumors etc. – should strongly suggest a genetic condition. The opposite is even more important – like sending patient with thyroid nodule of unclear pathology to surgery and ending up with it being MTC and patient having a hypertensive crisis during the surgery. Possible syndromal association with SDHB mutation should prompt assessment of multiple tumors, as well as early recurrence and metastatic disease to prevent early post-operative discontinuation of medical therapy and rebound hypertension or discontinuation of long term follow up. In addition, the head and neck PGLs, rarely seen by endocrinologists in the past, are associated with a SDHD gene mutation and can metastasize and locally invade, while being secretory silent. Establishment of a genetic disorder requires institution of testing and biochemical screening of relatives. Dopamine vs norepinephrine vs epinephrine secreting tumors Based on the differences in the affinity of epinephrine and norepinephrine to adrenoceptors, with norepinephrine having lesser action on the β 2 -adrenoceptor, one can expect a pure “vasoconstrictive” clinical presentation in cases with pure norepinephric secretory profile, while with epinephrine and dopamine-secreting tumors, orthostatic or episodic hypotension will be much more frequent. PPGL in pregnancy PPGL during pregnancy is a rare clinical entity. In the case of pregnancy, there are 2 patients at the same time, both the mother and the fetus. Both can be severely affected by the disease, although in a somewhat different manner. PPGL is difficult to suspect during pregnancy because of pre-eclampsia-driven management attitude. Diagnosis can be significantly delayed causing fetal morbidity and affecting both the pregnancy and delivery. Several physiologic phenomena drive the unique behavior of PPGL in pregnancy. These include high placental expression of catechol- O -methyltransferase (COMT) and monoamine oxidase (MAO) and lack of autoregulation in uteroplacental circulation. While both enzymes are responsible for production of inactive catecholamine metabolites, they provide some kind of “fetal barrier”, shielding
