Emergencies Related to Pheochromocytoma/Paraganglioma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: ppgl, severe, clinical, disease, acute, hypercatecholaminemia, hypertension, patient, hypertensive, catecholamine, crisis, surgery, therapy, adrenoceptor, case


and monoamine oxidase (MAO) and lack of autoregulation in uteroplacental circulation. While both enzymes are responsible for production of inactive catecholamine metabolites, they provide some kind of “fetal barrier”, shielding the fetus from exposure to increased catecholamine levels. Lack of uteroplacental vascular autoregulation, on the other hand, directly affects placental blood flow and fetal blood supply in the hypertensive vasoconstricted mother and can associate with rapid development of uteroplacental insufficiency. As far as management – MRI will be the preferred imaging modality, medical therapy will be started with same medications as in non-pregnant patients, and the management of acute severe hypercatecholaminemia will be similar to non-pregnant cases, with exception for the need to avoid methyldopa and more prevalent use of intravenous magnesium sulfate, which will be effective in both PPGL and pre-eclampsia. Surgery still remains the treatment of choice and there is continuous debate about the sequence of delivery versus surgery. PPGL in pediatric population Hypertension in the pediatric population is mostly secondary and is mostly related to renal disease with endocrine causes happening much less frequently. With this said, the possibility of both genetically-driven as well as a malignant course is much higher and needs to be assessed in every pediatric case. Overall management is similar to adult PPGL. On the other hand, the patient will need an extended follow up to assure that any possibility of recurrence is monitored. Co-secretory substances The unique enzymatic machinery of PPGL cells provides a series of steps that transforms an amino acid to an amine. In this case, the amino acid is tyramine and the end product are catecholamines. One should appreciate that PPGLs can co-secrete multiple active substances, most clinically relevant of which will probably be ACTH/CRH, which can cause frank and at times severe Cushing syndrome. This needs to be kept in mind, especially when the patient presents with suspicious symptoms or biochemical findings. PPGL as part of MEN2 will associate with overproduction of calcitonin and disseminated metastatic disease, which needs to be diagnosed, hopefully prior to PPGL surgery. Symptomatic vs silent While we had discussed in length symptomatic PPGL, parasympathetic PGL could associate with silent tumors, which could be associated with SDHB/D mutation and might have a malignant/metastatic course with local involvement of carotid sinus, as well as major neck vessels, in times associated with different – “silent/local” urgencies/emergencies. Treatment-associated severe hypercatecholaminemia Inoperable or recurrent metastatic disease can be
