Emergencies Related to Pheochromocytoma/Paraganglioma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: ppgl, severe, clinical, disease, acute, hypercatecholaminemia, hypertension, patient, hypertensive, catecholamine, crisis, surgery, therapy, adrenoceptor, case


with local involvement of carotid sinus, as well as major neck vessels, in times associated with different – “silent/local” urgencies/emergencies. Treatment-associated severe hypercatecholaminemia Inoperable or recurrent metastatic disease can be treated through multiple modalities, which usually cause different degrees of tumor destruction. These include older therapies (radiofrequency ablation, cryotherapy, external beam radiation, transarterial chemoembolization, ethanol injection), as well as newly rediscovered 131 I-MIBG and somatostatin receptor-driven peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) with 90 Y-DOTATOC/DOTATATE and 177 Lu-DOTATATE. This tumor destruction is associated with the potential of massive release of the pre-synthesized catecholamines and could generate severe hypercatecholaminemia for a prolonged period of time. In preparation for therapy, patients need to undergo a protocol, identical to surgical preparation and their biochemical response needs to be followed for weeks after therapy. Overtly secreting or very large tumors should probably generate post-procedural admission for closer monitoring to make sure that the patient will not develop a hypertensive emergency. As we had discussed above, pre-treatment with a competitive α-adrenoceptor antagonist must be used in almost all patients but may provide insufficient α-adrenoceptor blockade with massive hypercatecholaminemia. On the other hand, use of phenoxybenzamine in a full dose, can potentially result in prolonged hypotension but is less problematic than a severe hypertensive crisis and its consequences. CLINICAL SYNDROMES ASSOCIATED WITH PPGL Multisystem Failure This is by far most feared complication because of the high morbidity and mortality associated with a rapid and at times unexpected and unpredicted development, resembling an avalanche starting small but rapidly leaping into a clinical disaster. While it could be preceded by a hypertensive crisis, patients who are sicker and fragile at baseline can develop it with little or no warning symptoms. The blood pressure pattern can show either hypertension or hypotension in case of progressive shock and cardiac failure. It can associate with fever, encephalopathy, as well as renal failure, pulmonary edema and even disseminated intravascular coagulation. Clinical outcomes mostly depend on delays in diagnosis and initiation of appropriate therapy. Cardiovascular Emergencies Hypertensive crisis While hypertension in patients with PPGL can be both paroxysmal and sustained, a severe hypertensive crisis is usually precipitated by stress, postural changes, food containing large amounts of catecholamine precursors, as well as local manipulation of an unsuspected tumor. Medications can also induce hypertensive crisis through direct stimulation of release of stored catecholamines – which could be of a massive quantity. These medications include ACTH, tricyclic
