Emergencies Related to Pheochromocytoma/Paraganglioma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: ppgl, severe, clinical, disease, acute, hypercatecholaminemia, hypertension, patient, hypertensive, catecholamine, crisis, surgery, therapy, adrenoceptor, case


an unsuspected tumor. Medications can also induce hypertensive crisis through direct stimulation of release of stored catecholamines – which could be of a massive quantity. These medications include ACTH, tricyclic antidepressants, phenothiazine, nasal decongestants containing sympathomimetic or histamine, and metoclopramide. Treatment needs to be initiated immediately, intravenously and one needs to remember that α-adrenoceptor blockade is the drug of choice, as well as the fact that β-adrenoceptor medication can both cause and precipitate acute deterioration of the hypertensive crisis. Hypotensive shock Hypotension in PPGL is usually perceived as exclusively related to dopamine or epinephrine-secreting tumors. While this is true, hypovolemia and acute heart failure due to an acute coronary event, myocarditis, or pulmonary edema can produce profound hypotension and shock in norepinephrine-secreting tumors too. Cardiac arrhythmias Tachyarrhythmias are frequently associated with PPGL and are related to β-adrenergic stimulation-driven positive inotropy. These are mostly supraventricular including atrial fibrillation and flutter, as well as wide complex ventricular tachycardia. One needs to remember that in case of myocarditis, cardiomyopathy, or an acute coronary event, myocardial susceptibility to any type of rhythm disturbances is significantly increased and can manifest with bradyarrhythmia’s. Myocarditis and cardiomyopathy Development of myocarditis and cardiomyopathy in PPGL is well known and described, but still remains poorly understood as far as the actual mechanistic process. It could relate to direct myocardial toxicity of significant and prolonged hypercatecholaminemia, as well as prolonged hypertension or a coronary event. It could be of any type – either hypertrophic or dilated – as well as asymmetric (tako-tsubo type). It could improve to some degree after successful treatment. Acute myocardial or peripheral ischemia Both could be caused by prolonged hypertension, resulting in intimal hypertrophy, as well as local spasm in the naïve or already sclerotic vessel. It can also result from increased and uncompensated oxygen demand. Pulmonary Emergencies Pulmonary edema can be both cardiac and non-cardiac of origin. The first is discussed above, while the last is mostly related to increased capillary pressure together with vasoconstriction related stasis and an increase in vascular permeability. Gastrointestinal Emergencies Clinically, acute GI emergencies are usually associated with abdominal pain and vomiting. These could be related to mesenteric ischemia, which consequently can result in bowel perforation, ileus, and GI bleeding. Ileus in PPGL can be both paralytic and pseudo-obstructive and can also associate with megacolon. Although rarely thought to be related to PPGL, these disorders need to be diagnosed early
