Emergencies Related to Pheochromocytoma/Paraganglioma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: ppgl, severe, clinical, disease, acute, hypercatecholaminemia, hypertension, patient, hypertensive, catecholamine, crisis, surgery, therapy, adrenoceptor, case


Ileus in PPGL can be both paralytic and pseudo-obstructive and can also associate with megacolon. Although rarely thought to be related to PPGL, these disorders need to be diagnosed early and treated to prevent rapid deterioration and the need for urgent surgery. Severe hypertension can also associate with an aneurysm of the aorta that can undergo dissection with a hypertensive spike. Renal Emergencies Acute vasoconstriction of the renal arteries can result in acute renal failure, while prolonged hypertension can cause progressive deterioration of renal function over a relatively short period of time, especially in patients with underlying hypertension or susceptibility to significant vascular changes. Neurologic Emergencies Strokes are known to occur with both paroxysmal and sustained hypertension, but other neurologic emergencies could include hypertensive encephalopathy, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and seizures. Neurologic deficiencies related to brain or spinal metastases, as well as local neurologic deficits caused by paragangliomas are also seen. MANAGEMENT The diagnostic approach and treatment of PPGL are discussed in detail in the PPGL section of Endotext and shown in Table 2 , but what we will discuss here is the approach to PPGL-related medical emergencies. Table 2. Treatment of PPGL View in own window Stage Goal Primary Alternative Initial oral Normalization of BP Minimal organ effect In the following order: α-blocker β blocker Metyrosine Calcium channel blocker Labetalol Pre-operative Normal BP Normovolemia Optimized cardiac performance As Initial Fluids to normovolemia As Initial Intra-operative Prevention of the following: Severe hypercatecholaminemia Severe hypertension Severe hypotension Phentolamine IV Nitroprusside IV Aggressive fluid replacement Labetalol IV Post-operative Prevention of hypotension Prevention of hypoglycemia Aggressive fluid replacement Glucose supplementation Inoperable disease Maintenance of normal BP Treatment of metastatic disease Chemotherapy Radiotherapy Debulking Experimental Therapy As with non-urgent PPGL, the main part of successful management and prevention of its deterioration into a medical emergency is timely suspicion and diagnosis. Obviously, this cannot happen in each and every case and we will continue to see acute severe hypertensive crises and poor outcomes that could not be prevented. But otherwise, the overall suspicion should be relatively high, even if it will generate some unnecessary workups, while preventing avoidable death. We also feel that the common flamboyancy of PPGL being a great and friendly masquerader should probably be revised to some degree. It should include a quite real possibility of metamorphosis of this apparent benignity into behavioral tendencies of a Grim Reaper; just to make sure that the
