Emergencies Related to Pheochromocytoma/Paraganglioma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: ppgl, severe, clinical, disease, acute, hypercatecholaminemia, hypertension, patient, hypertensive, catecholamine, crisis, surgery, therapy, adrenoceptor, case


revised to some degree. It should include a quite real possibility of metamorphosis of this apparent benignity into behavioral tendencies of a Grim Reaper; just to make sure that the reality of severely morbid outcomes is known and respected. As was discussed above, in case of acute intra-operative hypertensive crisis with or without identifiable mass, therapy should be initiated assuming PPGL-related severe hypercatecholaminemia. Medications are to be administered IV and should include phentolamine or nitroprusside. Nitroprusside is more readily available in ORs compared to phentolamine, which needs to be prepared by the pharmacy. Nitroprusside can cause adverse effects when administered over an extended period during complicated surgery (discussed above). If existence of a PPGL is established prior to surgery, it would definitely be advisable to procure phentolamine to be available in OR/ICU. Phentolamine, an α-adrenoceptor antagonist, is given as an i.v. bolus of 2.5 mg to 5 mg at 1 mg/min, which can be repeated every 5 min for adequate control of hypertension. Alternatively, it can be given as a continuous infusion (100 mg of phentolamine in 500 mL of 5% dextrose in water, not available in USA) with an infusion rate adjusted to the patient’s blood pressure during continuous blood pressure monitoring. Sodium nitroprusside can be administered at 0.5 to 10.0 mcg/kg per minute (stop if no results are seen after 10 minutes). Magnesium sulfate acts as vasodilator and antiarrhythmic and is administered as a 1-2 gm bolus and then continuously at 1 to 3 gm/h. Esmolol, a short acting β 1 -adrenoceptor antagonist can improve uncontrolled tachycardia. Continuous infusion of Nicardipine, that is usually a very good initial choice, can prevent catecholamine-induced coronary vasospasm, hypertension, and tachycardia and it is given intravenously at 1 to 2.5 mg for 2 min, then at 5 to 15 mg/h. If the patient was not on a α-adrenoceptor blocker prior to the surgery, use of Labetalol could precipitate deterioration in blood pressure because of 1:7 α:β-specific blocking effect. If the patient is on a short-acting competitive α-adrenoceptor blocker, using i.v. Labetalol bolus could be beneficial for better control of blood pressure. The same approach should be carried out in cases of a severe hypertensive crisis if it happens acutely in a patient with known and insufficiently treated PPGL (recurrence, lack of compliance), acute deterioration of hypertension, or resistant to initial therapy including pre-eclampsia. There will be little time to sufficiently and efficiently
