Emergencies Related to Pheochromocytoma/Paraganglioma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: ppgl, severe, clinical, disease, acute, hypercatecholaminemia, hypertension, patient, hypertensive, catecholamine, crisis, surgery, therapy, adrenoceptor, case


with known and insufficiently treated PPGL (recurrence, lack of compliance), acute deterioration of hypertension, or resistant to initial therapy including pre-eclampsia. There will be little time to sufficiently and efficiently pre-load patient with oral therapy, which should be carried out after resolution of the crisis if surgery was not performed. If, on the other hand, there is time for oral therapy in less urgent situations or while awaiting upcoming surgery, α-adrenoceptor blockade should be initiated as soon as possible and the patient should be clinically evaluated on a frequent basis to adjust therapy as tolerated. The choice of medication should be dictated by several factors. In cases of severe hypercatecholaminemia or relatively recent onset, where one should expect less time available for significant desensitization of adrenoceptors, competitive α-adrenoceptor blockers could provide lesser control of symptoms just by the virtue of pharmacokinetics against massive concentration of catecholamines. In such cases, use of a non-competitive agonist – phenoxybenzamine - will make more sense. Otherwise, competitive adrenoceptor blockers seem to be efficient and safe and could result in shorter hospitalization due to shorter action and lesser postoperative hypotension. Also, doxazosin (as well as others (prazosin and terazosin, which seem to be used less frequently) seems to be both safe and efficient in PPGL management. Physician’s preferences and experience play a major role in the selection of prescribed medication. In addition to this, the cost and availability affects the choice of medication. Endocrinologist need to be comfortable with multiple different classes of medications used for therapy. Calcium channel blockers (nicardipine/amlodipine) proved to be also safe and efficient, but, again, we would suggest avoiding them alone in cases of severe hypercatecholaminemia, especially with concomitant congestive heart failure. A competitive inhibitor of tyrosine hydroxylase - α-methyl- para -tyrosine (metyrosine, Demser) can be used to both compete with tyrosine (the substrate for catecholamine synthesis), as well as a direct inhibitor of tyrosine hydroxylase. Hypotension is managed by fluid administration and/or vasopressors including phenylephrine. Hypoglycemia can occur after removal of PPGL-related catecholamine excess as a result of rebound release of insulin secretion and is treated with intravenous glucose. GUIDELINES Lenders JW, Duh QY, Eisenhofer G, et al. Endocrine Society. Pheochromocytoma and paraganglioma: an Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014; 99 (6):1915–1942. [ PubMed : 24893135 ] REFERENCES Pacak K, Tella SH. Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma. In: Feingold KR, Anawalt B, Boyce A, Chrousos G, Dungan
