Chapter 2: Prevalence and Incidence of Type 1 Diabetes Among Children and Adults in the United States and Comparison With Non-U.S. Countries
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, age, years, incidence, youth, age years, study, health, search, children, registry, prevalence, insulin


2–1 CHAPTER 2 PREVALENCE AND INCIDENCE OF TYPE 1 DIABETES AMONG CHILDREN AND ADULTS IN THE UNITED STATES AND COMPARISON WITH NON-U.S. COUNTRIES Giuseppina Imperatore, MD, PhD, Elizabeth J. Mayer-Davis, PhD, Trevor J. Orchard, MD, and Victor W. Zhong, PhD Dr. Giuseppina Imperatore is Team Lead, Epidemiology and Statistics Branch, Division of Diabetes Translation, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA. Dr. Elizabeth J. Mayer-Davis is Professor and Chair, Department of Nutrition, Gillings School of Global Public Health and School of Medicine, at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC. Dr. Trevor J. Orchard is Professor of Epidemiology, Medicine & Pediatrics, Department of Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public Health, at the University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA. Dr. Victor W. Zhong is with the Department of Preventive Medicine, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL. The findings and conclusions in this chapter are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the official position of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Received in final form June 17, 2015. SUMMARY Type 1 diabetes is one of the most common chronic diseases of childhood in the United States, accounting for nearly 98% of all cases of diabetes in children age <10 years and over 87% of all cases in youth age 10–19 years. However, the disease can occur at any age. Type 1 diabetes primarily results from an immune attack to the insulin-producing beta cells of the pancreas, which results in insulin deficiency and high blood glucose concentrations. If left untreated, this disease is fatal. The optimal treatment of type 1 diabetes includes basal and multiple doses of insulin using injections or an insulin pump, frequent checking of blood glucose concentrations, and adjusting insulin doses for carbohydrate intake and physical activity. Individuals with type 1 diabetes are at risk of acute complications (e.g., severe hypoglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis) and chronic complications, including both macrovascular and microvascular diseases, and may experience a shorter life expectancy than the U.S. general population. Estimates of the prevalence and incidence of type 1 diabetes in U.S. youth age <20 years in all major U.S. race/ethnicity groups come from the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth study (SEARCH). SEARCH reported that in the United States, in 2009, an estimated 167,000 youth lived with type 1 diabetes. The overall prevalence (cases/1,000) was 1.93. It was similar
