Chapter 2: Prevalence and Incidence of Type 1 Diabetes Among Children and Adults in the United States and Comparison With Non-U.S. Countries
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, age, years, incidence, youth, age years, study, health, search, children, registry, prevalence, insulin


for Disease Control and Prevention; NBDPN, National Birth Defects Prevention Network; NCHS, National Center for Health Statistics; NCI, National Cancer Institute; SEARCH, SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study. SOURCE: References are listed within the table. Prevalence and Incidence of Type 1 Diabetes Among Children and Adults in the United States and Comparison With Non-U.S. Countries 2–3 in 1999–2010 (18). Because the NHANES does not collect data on type of diabetes, the identification of participants with type 1 diabetes was based on age of onset and insulin treatment patterns. This approach may have misclassified some cases of type 2 diabetes as type 1 diabetes. Data on incidence of type 1 diabetes in U.S. adults presented in this chapter derive from a single study conducted among U.S. active duty military personnel age 18–44 years (19). This study used hospitalization and outpatient clinic data from 1990–2005 for identifying newly diagnosed cases of diabetes that required insulin treatment since diagnosis. Because persons with insulin-requiring diabetes are not enrolled in the U.S. military, first encounters of insulin-requiring diabetes were considered incident cases. Some of the insulin-requiring cases were likely due to type 2 diabetes; since type 2 diabetes is so much more common than type 1 diabetes, even a small amount of misclas­ sification of type 2 as type 1 can have a substantial impact on incidence estimates. However, the review of hospital discharges revealed that most of the cases received a clinical diagnosis of type 1 diabetes and were discharged on insulin treatment. Another limitation of this study is that esti­ mates cannot be generalized to the U.S. adult population as the military population is not a probability representative sample of the U.S. population. HOW IS TYPE 1 DIABETES DEFINED? Definitions of “type 1 diabetes” may differ based on the goals of a given activity and the information available. Goals may include etiologic study, clinical care, or public health surveillance. In 1997, an expert committee convened by the American Diabetes Association and the National Institutes of Health defined diabetes as a spectrum of metabolic diseases caused by defects in insulin secretion, insulin action, or both (20). Based on this etiologic approach, the majority of diabetes cases cluster into two categories: type 1 diabetes, caused by an absolute deficiency of insulin, usually due to the autoimmune destruc­ tion of the beta cells of the pancreas, and type 2 diabetes, resulting from a combination of insulin
