Chapter 2: Prevalence and Incidence of Type 1 Diabetes Among Children and Adults in the United States and Comparison With Non-U.S. Countries
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, age, years, incidence, youth, age years, study, health, search, children, registry, prevalence, insulin


by an absolute deficiency of insulin, usually due to the autoimmune destruc­ tion of the beta cells of the pancreas, and type 2 diabetes, resulting from a combination of insulin resistance and beta cell failure. The hallmarks of the underlying pathophysiologic process of type 1 diabetes are the loss of endoge­ nous insulin secretion and presence of autoantibodies against components of the insulin-producing beta cells (also known as diabetes autoantibodies [DAA]). In etio­ logic research and prevention trials aimed at the preservation of the beta cell func­ tion, type 1 diabetes is usually defined on the basis of DAA and fasting or stimulated C-peptide concentrations, measures of endogenous insulin production (21). Children and Adolescents In clinical settings, limited resources may prevent the assessment of the etiologic markers, and classification of type 1 diabetes is commonly based on clinical characteristics, including the age of onset and the need for insulin to control hyperglycemia soon after diagnosis. This approach presents some pitfalls. In adolescents, type 2 diabetes is becoming more common (1), and therefore, onset during adolescence does not necessarily imply the presence of type 1 diabetes. Similarly, although treatment with insulin is a requisite of type 1 diabetes, it is frequently necessary to control hyperglycemia even in youth with type 2 diabetes (22,23). On the other hand, the presence of obesity does not necessarily indicate a diagnosis of type 2 diabetes, as individuals with type 1 diabetes may also be obese as a result of the increased prevalence of obesity in the youth population (24,25). In addition, the concept of absolute insulin deficiency as a requisite of type 1 diabetes has been chal­ lenged, as some individuals may retain residual insulin production long after diagnosis (26,27,28). This underscores the complexity in the etiologic classifica­ tion of type of diabetes and, at the same time, the need for correctly classifying type of diabetes in youth for establishing the most appropriate therapeutic and preventive strategies and for public health surveillance. To overcome these limitations, SEARCH has used the presence of diabetes autoim­ munity and insulin sensitivity as markers of diabetes etiology (29). Autoimmunity was defined as the presence of DAA against the 65-kD isoform of glutamic acid decarbox­ ylase (GADA) and insulinoma-associated-2 autoantibodies (IA-2). The two etiologic measures identify four mutually exclusive groups of individuals: DAA positive and insulin sensitive, DAA positive with insulin resistance, DAA negative and insulin sensitive, and finally, DAA
