Chapter 2: Prevalence and Incidence of Type 1 Diabetes Among Children and Adults in the United States and Comparison With Non-U.S. Countries
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, age, years, incidence, youth, age years, study, health, search, children, registry, prevalence, insulin


(IA-2). The two etiologic measures identify four mutually exclusive groups of individuals: DAA positive and insulin sensitive, DAA positive with insulin resistance, DAA negative and insulin sensitive, and finally, DAA negative and insulin resistant. Among newly diagnosed SEARCH participants, the majority of diabetes cases (55%) were DAA positive and insulin sensitive, while 16% lacked evidence of autoimmunity and were insulin resistant (Figure 2.1). About 20% of the new-onset cases fell into the group with autoimmunity and insulin resistance. Because of the increase in obesity in the youth population (25), this group probably FIGURE 2.1. Distribution of Etiologic Categories of Diabetes in Newly Diagnosed Youth Age <20 Years, the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study, U.S., 2002–2006 DAA+: Positive for IA2 or GADA autoantibody. Insulin Sensitivity (IS) = exp[4.64725-0.02032*(waist, cm)-0.09779*(A1c, %)-0.00235*(Triglycerides, mg/dL)] Insulin Resistant (IR) = IS index below the 25th percentile (IS <8.15) for 1999–2004 NHANES youth A1c, glycosylated hemoglobin; DAA, diabetes autoantibodies; GADA, 65-kD isoform of glutamic acid decarboxylase; IA-2, insulinoma-associated-2 antibodies; NHANES, National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. SOURCE: Reference 29, copyright © 2011 American Diabetes Association, reprinted with permission from the American Diabetes Association 2–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition represents the onset of autoimmune diabetes in obese individuals. Indeed, their human leukocyte antigen (HLA) risk alleles and DAA titers did not differ from those of the group with autoimmunity and insulin sensitivity (29). Finally, about 10% of individ­ uals presented with neither autoimmunity nor insulin resistance. This group probably includes individuals with monogenic diabetes (30) (see Chapter 7 Monogenic Forms of Diabetes) or individuals whose autoimmunity had already disappeared or presented with other immune markers than those measured in the SEARCH study. In this last group, further testing may be warranted to define etiology. While the approach used by SEARCH offers a practical framework for defining type of diabetes in research and clinical settings, it may not be applicable in popu­ lation-based surveillance, because often these etiologic markers are not routinely measured or easily accessible. Public health surveillance of type 1 diabetes, historically, has been based on registries, with type 1 diabetes defined as onset during childhood (usually before age 15 years) and requiring insulin treatment soon after diagnosis (31,32,33,34,35,36). Because of the occurrence of type 2 diabetes in adolescence, recent surveil­ lance efforts of childhood diabetes have tried to discriminate between type 1 and type 2 diabetes. In youth age <20 years, SEARCH found that
