Chapter 2: Prevalence and Incidence of Type 1 Diabetes Among Children and Adults in the United States and Comparison With Non-U.S. Countries
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, age, years, incidence, youth, age years, study, health, search, children, registry, prevalence, insulin


2 diabetes in adolescence, recent surveil­ lance efforts of childhood diabetes have tried to discriminate between type 1 and type 2 diabetes. In youth age <20 years, SEARCH found that type of diabetes as reported by the health care provider (1,37,38) was in good agreement with the etiologic markers of type 1 or type 2 diabetes (29). For example, among individ­ uals with positive DAA, 99% of the insulin sensitive group and 92% of the insulin resistant group were classified as having type 1 diabetes by their providers. On the other hand, 76% of youth without DAA and insulin resistant were classified as having type 2 diabetes. This suggests that for public health surveillance in youth, type of diabetes as indicated by the health care provider could be reasonably accurate. Using type of diabetes as indicated by the health care provider as a gold standard and data from electronic health records of a large managed health care organization, SEARCH found that having at least one International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision-Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM) code of type 1 diabetes for an outpatient visit (ICD-9-CM code 250.x1 or 250.x3) correctly identified youth with type 1 diabetes, with sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of 95%, 93%, 98%, and 84%, respectively (39). Similar findings were reported from a study conducted among 57,767 children age <20 years seen at the multipayer integrated University of North Carolina Health Care System in 2011 (40). This study used billing data, patient problem lists, labo­ ratory test results, and diabetes-related medications to identify diabetes cases and validation by medical chart review. The most accurate algorithm for identifying type 1 diabetes required the ratio of the number of type 1 diabetes billing codes to the sum of the number of type 1 and type 2 billing codes to be ≥0.5, with sensitivity, specificity, and positive predictive value of 96%, 92%, and 98%, respectively. This algorithm performed equally well across race/ethnicity groups (non-Hispanic white vs. “other”) and age groups (<10 years vs. ≥10 years), with the exception of specificity in children <10 years of age (83%). In the province of British Columbia, Canada, a classification algorithm of type of diabetes among children using a combination of age of onset and insulin and glucose strips prescriptions, obtained 99% sensitivity, 78% specificity, and 98% positive predictive value for identifying type 1 diabetes (41). While this approach is feasible in
