Chapter 2: Prevalence and Incidence of Type 1 Diabetes Among Children and Adults in the United States and Comparison With Non-U.S. Countries
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, age, years, incidence, youth, age years, study, health, search, children, registry, prevalence, insulin


Health Service Diabetes issued guidelines for identifying type of diabetes in primary care settings (48). They defined type 1 diabetes as age of onset <35 years and continuous use of insulin within 6–12 months after diagnosis or as age of onset ≥35 years and continuous treatment with insulin from diagnosis. Prevalence and Incidence of Type 1 Diabetes Among Children and Adults in the United States and Comparison With Non-U.S. Countries 2–5 Given this large variability in case defi­ nition, surveillance of type 1 diabetes, especially in adults, would greatly benefit from standardized case definition. This would facilitate comparisons of type 1 diabetes incidence and prevalence across populations and geographic areas. CURRENT SURVEILLANCE SYSTEMS OF TYPE 1 DIABETES The CDC describes public health surveil­ lance as “the ongoing and systematic collection, analysis, and interpretation of outcome-specific data for use in the plan­ ning, implementation, and evaluation of public health practice” (49). Public health surveillance of diabetes and its complica­ tions is crucial to track and characterize the burden of the disease, formulate health care policy, identify high-risk groups, develop strategies to reduce the burden of this disease, and monitor prog­ ress of primary and secondary prevention programs. The National Diabetes Surveillance System of the CDC utilizes three active national surveys—the NHANES, Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, and National Health Interview Survey—to monitor diabetes prevalence, incidence, and trends (2). However, none of these three sources of data clearly distinguish between types of diabetes, and thus, there is no national surveillance system for type 1 diabetes. This is, in part, due to the fact that type 1 diabetes is a relatively rare condition, and none of these national surveys has a sample large enough to accurately assess type 1 diabetes preva­ lence or incidence at the state or national level or in population subgroups. SEARCH identified prevalent cases of diabetes in 2001 and 2009 and, starting in 2002, all newly diagnosed (incident) cases in subsequent calendar years. Diabetes cases are considered valid if diagnosed by a physician. The identifica­ tion of prevalent cases occurs through the use of hospital, outpatient clinic, and labo­ ratory databases, as well as direct case reports from health care providers (1,50). Networks of health care providers are the primary source of identification of incident cases (37). Unique, validated diabetes cases are then anonymously registered at the central registry located at the Wake Forest University. Other regional diabetes registries,
