Chapter 2: Prevalence and Incidence of Type 1 Diabetes Among Children and Adults in the United States and Comparison With Non-U.S. Countries
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, age, years, incidence, youth, age years, study, health, search, children, registry, prevalence, insulin


type 1 diabetes. This would enable a more comprehensive estimate of type 1 diabetes prevalence in the United States than currently possible. One emerging approach for diabetes surveillance at the population level is the use of health information technology (HIT). The U.S. Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH Act) of 2009 defined HIT as “hardware, software, integrated technologies or related licenses, intel­ lectual property, upgrades, or packaged solutions sold as services that are designed for or support the use by health care entities or patients for the electronic creation, maintenance, access, or exchange of health information.” HIT-based surveillance systems could provide relatively low-cost, efficient, and timely disease surveillance from large and diverse populations. In addition to assessing diabetes prevalence, incidence, and temporal trends, HIT could provide a valid tool for estimating the prevalence and incidence of diabetes complications and mortality, assess quality of care, and also monitor the effect of interventions. Various kinds of diabetes algorithms and “decision trees” have been developed from administrative data and electronic health record data (39,40,41,45,87,88,89,90). Some of them perform quite well in iden­ tifying diabetes cases and differentiating type of diabetes. Also, the adoption and increasing popularity of electronic health records will largely facilitate diabetes surveillance efforts (91,92,93), because they can provide rich clinical information by linking multiple data sources, such as laboratory data and medication records. The transition from paper-based records to electronic health records could dramat­ ically enhance and improve public health surveillance capacity. However, auto­ mated algorithms for the identification of diabetes cases by type in children and in adults need to be developed, evaluated, and compared in terms of sensitivity, specificity, and predictive values both within and between health care settings (40,87). With the help of technology and dedication of public health professionals, optimal strategies could be found to inform and even establish a national sustainable surveillance system of type 1 diabetes both in children and adults. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE DIRECTIONS Clearly, type 1 diabetes, a major disease in terms of the impact on individual and community health, has an increasing prevalence and incidence in the United States. A number of gaps exist in under­ standing its burden and trends in the U.S. population. First, the lack of standardized common case definitions does not allow comparisons of prevalence and incidence rates across health care systems, popu­ lation subgroups, and time periods. The adoption of a common
