Chapter 2: Prevalence and Incidence of Type 1 Diabetes Among Children and Adults in the United States and Comparison With Non-U.S. Countries
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, age, years, incidence, youth, age years, study, health, search, children, registry, prevalence, insulin


lack of standardized common case definitions does not allow comparisons of prevalence and incidence rates across health care systems, popu­ lation subgroups, and time periods. The adoption of a common set of questions based on the initiation of continuous insulin treatment and age to be used in all national surveys could provide at least a basic, likely minimal, estimate of national prevalence. Second, it is of great interest to further investigate the higher risk of type 1 diabetes after puberty among males, as well as the apparent absence of a pubertal peak in incidence in non-Hispanic black and Hispanic boys and the documented earlier peak in non-Hispanic white girls. Such studies may provide new insights into the etiopathogenesis of type 1 diabetes with pubertal or adult onset. The finding of a lower incidence of type 1 diabetes in blacks compared to whites at young ages and the higher incidence of insulin-requiring diabetes in black compared to white adults also need to be confirmed and further evaluated, including the question of whether or not lifetime risk differs. Lastly, monitoring on a regular basis the prevalence and incidence of type 1 diabetes both in youth and in adults would facilitate health care delivery planning and the evaluation of secondary prevention efforts. These efforts would benefit from simplified methods to distin­ guish people with type 1 diabetes from those with type 2 diabetes, especially in adults. The development and validation of HIT-based relatively low-cost sustainable diabetes surveillance systems could also allow the assessment of the prevalence and incidence of diabetes by age, sex, race/ethnicity, geographic region, and type of diabetes among the U.S. youth and adult populations. Finally, the evaluation of the surveillance systems should include the ability and accuracy of detecting incident cases, characterizing the population under surveillance, and assessing characteristics of the surveil­ lance system including, but not limited to, flexibility, timeliness, and sustainability. LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS CDC . . . . . . . . .Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CI . . . . . . . . . . .confidence interval DAA . . . . . . . . .diabetes autoantibodies DIAMOND . . . .DIAbetes MONDiale project EURODIAB . . .EUROpe and DIABetes study HIT . . . . . . . . . .health information technology IHS . . . . . . . . . .Indian Health Service NHANES . . . .
