ERJOPENRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, antibiotics, asthma, respiratory tract, tract, tract infections, use, population, reported, study, asthmatic, use antibiotics, infection, odds


ORIGINALRESEARCHARTICLE M.A.KISIELETAL. The risk of respiratory tract infections and antibiotic use in a general population and among people with asthma Marta A. Kisiel1, Xingwu Zhou2,3, Eythor Björnsson4, Mathias Holm5, Anna Dahlman-Höglund5, Juan Wang1, Cecilie Svanes6,7, Dan Norbäck1, Karl A. Franklin 8, Andrei Malinovschi 3, Ane Johannessen9, Vivi Schlünssen10 and Christer Janson 2 Environment,Copenhagen,Denmark. Correspondingauthor:MartaKisiel() Shareableabstract (@ERSpublications) The main findings of this study are that asthmatics reported three times higher odds for respiratory tract infectionsandmorethanthree timeshigheroddsfor subsequentantibioticsthan subjectswithoutasthma Cite this article as: Kisiel MA, Zhou X, Björnsson E, et al. The risk of respiratory tract infections and antibiotic use in a general population and among peoplewith asthma. ERJ Open Res 2021; 7: 00429- 2021[DOI:]. Abstract associated with respiratory infections and antibiotics use in a general population and among asthmatic Thisversionisdistributedunder individuals. thetermsoftheCreative Method This study included 15842 participants of the Respiratory Health in Northern Europe (RHINE) CommonsAttributionNon- CommercialLicence4.0.For study aged 25–54years from five Nordic countries, who answered a questionnaire covering respiratory commercialreproductionrights outcomes, exposures, demographic characteristics and numbers of infections and courses of antibiotics in andpermissionscontact the last 12months. Multiple logistic regression with and without adjustment for age, sex, smoking status, body mass index and centre were used to study the risk of infection and antibiotics in relation to asthma, Thisarticlehassupplementary andalsotheassociationbetweeninfectionandantibioticsandoccupations. materialavailablefrom Results In the whole population, 11.6% reported having three or more respiratory infections, and 14.7% openres.ersjournals.com had used antibiotics because of respiratory tract infections within the last year. Asthmatic participants reported tripled odds for such infections (adjusted OR 2.98, 95% CI 2.53–3.52) and antibiotics use Received:28June2021 (adjustedOR3.67,95%CI3.18–4.24)ascomparedtonon-asthmaticparticipants.Bothinthegeneraland Accepted:9Sept2021 the asthmatic population, female sex, obesity and exposure to building dampness were associated with respiratory infections. Female sex and current smoking and living in Tartu were associated with antibiotic use.Theuseofantibioticswasdoubledinpeoplehospitalisedforsevererespiratoryinfectioninchildhood. Conclusion In this study we identified several factors associated with increased respiratory infections and use of antibiotics in a general population and among asthmatic individuals. The frequency of respiratory infectionsandsubsequentantibiotictreatmentwereincreasedamongthosewithasthma. Introduction Acute respiratory tract infections are a main cause of morbidity and mortality globally and a leading causeofambulatoryconsultationandworksickleave.Themajorityofrespiratorytractinfectionsare caused by virus .Virus respiratory tractinfections orcoldsare estimated to occuron average2–5times peryearinadults.Respiratorytractinfectionsmaybeattributedto>200typesofvirusorbacteria,with ERJOpenRes2021;7:00429-2021 ERJOPENRESEARCH ORIGINALRESEARCHARTICLE | M.A.KISIELETAL. different clinical manifestation from being asymptomatic to fatal . Many patients with respiratory tract infections are treated with antibiotics despite the fact that viruses, and not bacteria, are the most common cause . This results in an overuse of antibiotics with negative consequences, including antibioticresistanceandadversedrugevents.
