ERJOPENRESEARCH
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, antibiotics, asthma, respiratory tract, tract, tract infections, use, population, reported, study, asthmatic, use antibiotics, infection, odds


are treated with antibiotics despite the fact that viruses, and not bacteria, are the most common cause . This results in an overuse of antibiotics with negative consequences, including antibioticresistanceandadversedrugevents. Individuals with respiratory disease, including asthma, may be particularly vulnerable to respiratory tract infections . Other confirmed or suspected risk factors for respiratory tract infections in adults are active and passive smoking , low serum vitamin D levels , lack of physical activity , children in household at daycare , sudden changes of temperature at work , lack of handwashing, psychological stress, shift work , and duration and quality of sleep . A review concluded that occupational exposure to various physical, chemical and other hazards might trigger exacerbations in peoplewithasthma[22–24].ObesityandType2diabetesarealsoassociatedwithhighersusceptibilityfor respiratory tract infections . People living in the Nordic countries tend to have more respiratory tract infections, possibly due to exposure to low temperatures and low vitamin D levels during the winter. The aim of this study wasto investigate how occupational, environmental, early life and other risk factors wereassociatedwith respiratorytractinfections andsubsequentantibiotics useinageneralpopulationand amongasthmaticindividuals. Materialandmethods Studydesignandpopulation ThisstudyisbasedonsubjectsthatparticipatedinthesecondsurveyoftheRespiratoryHealthinNorthern Europe study (RHINE) II (www.rhine.nu). The participants from five Northern European countries, Norway (Bergen), Sweden (Umeå, Uppsala, Gothenburg), Iceland (Reykjavik), Denmark (Aarhus) and Estonia (Tartu),answeredaquestionnaire in1999–2001.Thedatacollection procedurehasbeendescribed elsewhere . A total of 15842 subjects (born between 1945 and 1973) answered a postal questionnaire . RHINE II is a followed-up study of participants from the European Community RespiratoryHealthSurvey(ECRHS)thattookplacebetween1990and1994. Questionnaire Sociodemographicdataincludedageandsex.Smokinghistorywasbasedonthequestion“Doyousmoke? Yes (current smoker)/No; If No, are you an ex-smoker? Yes (ex-smoker)/No (never-smoker)”. Socioeconomic index was calculated based on the participant’s current or most recent occupation: 1 – managers and professionals, non-manual as legislators, senior officials, managers and professional; 2 – other non-manual as technicians and associate professionals, clerks, service workers and market sales workers;3–skilledmanualasskilledagriculturalandfisheryworkersandcraftandrelatedtradesworkers; 4 – semi-skilled or unskilled manual as plant and machine operators and assemblers and elementary not working because of poor health and retired. . The number of children under 7 years old in the household was reported. Body mass index (BMI) was calculated from reported height and weight and stratified into four groups: <20, 20–25, 26–30, >30kg·m−2. The participants also answered questions on morbidities such as allergic rhinitis (self-reported previous nasal congestion without a cold and coexistent becauseofsevererespiratoryinfectionwasreported. Asthmadefinition Subjects were considered to have current asthma if they reported that they currently were using asthma medication and/or had had an attack of asthma in the past 12months . Information on asthma
