Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


ABSTRACT The process of growth is complex and is influenced by various factors that act centrally and peripherally. In this chapter, we describe conditions associated with multiple pituitary hormone deficiency, isolated growth hormone deficiency, and abnormal growth without growth hormone deficiency, discuss the genes that are associated with these conditions, and prepare guidelines for the clinicians to evaluate a child with poor growth. In addition, we review treatment modalities, daily vs weekly, for growth hormone deficiency and their side effects. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Human growth starts at conception and proceeds through various identifiable developmental stages. The process of growth depends on both genetic and environmental factors that combine to determine an individual’s eventual height. Genetic control of statural growth is becoming increasingly clear. Many genes have been identified that are required for normal development and function of the pituitary in general, and that control the growth hormone/insulin-like growth factor axis in particular and many more that are involved in numerous cascades of intracellular processes “downstream” of GH/IGF1 action. Mutations of these genes have been shown to be responsible for abnormal growth in humans and animals. Growth hormone (GH) has been used to treat short children since the late 1950’s ( 1 , 2 ). Initially only those children with the most pronounced growth failure due to severe growth hormone deficiency (GHD) were considered appropriate candidates, but with time children with growth failure from a range of conditions have been shown to benefit from GH treatment. GH has also been used to treat several catabolic diseases including cystic fibrosis, inflammatory bowel disease and AIDS wasting ( 3 – 7 ). Here we review the physiology of growth, the diagnosis of GH deficiency, treatment options and genetic growth hormone disorders. GROWTH DISORDERS Growth failure may be due to genetic mutations, acquired disease and/or environmental deficiencies. Growth failure may result from a failure of hypothalamic growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) production or release, from (genetic or sporadic) mal-development of the pituitary somatotropes, secondary to ongoing chronic illness, malnutrition, intrinsic abnormalities of cartilage and/or bone such as osteo-chondrodysplasias, and from genetic disorders affecting growth hormone production and responsiveness. Children without any identifiable cause of their growth failure are commonly labeled as having idiopathic short stature (ISS). Genetic factors affecting growth include pituitary transcription factors ( PROP1 , POU1F1 , HESX1
