Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


any identifiable cause of their growth failure are commonly labeled as having idiopathic short stature (ISS). Genetic factors affecting growth include pituitary transcription factors ( PROP1 , POU1F1 , HESX1 , LHX3 , and LHX4 ), GHRH , the GH secretagogue ( GHS ), GH , insulin like growth factor-1 ( IGF1 ), insulin like growth factor-2 ( IGF2 ), insulin ( INS ) and their receptors ( GHRHR , GHSR , GHR , IGF1R , IGF2R and INSR ) as well as transcription factors controlling GH signaling, including STAT1 , STAT3 , STAT5a , and STAT5b . Growth is also influenced by other factors such as the Short Stature Homeobox, sex steroids (estrogens and androgens), glucocorticoids and thyroid hormone. Since the replacement of human pituitary-derived GH with recombinant human GH, much experience has been gained with the use of GH therapy. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) had expanded GH use for the following conditions for children ( 8 ). GH deficiency/insufficiency 1. Chronic renal insufficiency (pre-transplantation) 2. Turner syndrome 3. SHOX haploinsufficiency 4. Short stature from Prader-Willi Syndrome (PWS) 5. Children with a history of fetal growth restriction (SGA, IUGR) who have not caught up to a normal height range by age 2 years 6. Children with idiopathic short stature (ISS): height > 2.25 SD below the mean in height and unlikely to catch up in height. 7. Noonan Syndrome 8. Short Bowel Syndrome FDA approved conditions for GH treatment for adults: 1. Adults with GH deficiency 2. Adults with AIDS wasting The efficacy of GH treatment has been investigated in children whose height has been compromised due to chronic illnesses such as Crohn’s disease, cystic fibrosis, glucocorticoid-induced suppression of growth in other disorders (asthma and juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), also known as juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA)), and adrenal steroid disorders such as congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH). Studies have shown both anabolic effects and improvement of growth velocity after GH treatment in children with glucocorticoid dependent Crohn’s disease ( 3 , 9 , 10 ). Improvement in linear growth has also been observed after GH treatment in children with cystic fibrosis and JIA ( 4 – 6 ). The same studies have shown significant improvement in weight gain and body composition, changes that have been variably correlated with improvement in life expectancy and quality of life. The growth-suppressing effects of glucocorticoids are also seen in children affected with
