Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


and body composition, changes that have been variably correlated with improvement in life expectancy and quality of life. The growth-suppressing effects of glucocorticoids are also seen in children affected with CAH where high androgens both increase short-term growth velocity and limit the height potential. Most patients with CAH complete their growth prematurely and are ultimately short adults. Lin-Su et al , showed that GH in combination with LHRHa significantly improved their final adult height in children with CAH ( 11 ). Larger, long-term prospective studies are needed to determine the safety and efficacy of GH treatment in these populations of children. The key mediator of GH action in the periphery for both prenatal and postnatal mammalian growth is IGF system. GH exerts its direct effects at the growth plate and indirect effects via IGF1. Better understanding the role of IGF1 on growth had led to the concept of IGF1 deficiency in addition to GH deficiency. With the introduction of recombinant human (rh) IGF1, today, it is possible to treat conditions due to genetic GH resistance or insensitivity caused by GH receptor defects, and the presence of neutralizing GH antibodies ( 12 ). MULTIPLE PITUITARY HORMONE DEFICIENCY (MPHD) GH deficiency may occur in combination with other pituitary hormone deficiencies and is often referred to as hypopituitarism, panhypopituitarism or multiple pituitary hormone deficiency (MPHD). The anterior portion of pituitary gland forms from Rathke's pouch around the third week of gestation ( 13 ). It is influenced by the expression of numerous transcription factors and signaling molecules; some of them required for continued normal function of pituitary gland. Mutations have been identified in the genes encoding several pituitary transcription factors and signaling molecules, including GLI2 , LHX3 , LHX4 , HESX1 , PROP1 , POU1F1 , SOX2 , PITX2 , OTX2 and SOX3 ( Table 1 ). The most frequently mutated gene is PROP1 ( 6.7% in sporadic and 48.5% in familial cases) ( 14 ). Most cases of hypopituitarism are idiopathic in origin; however, familial inheritance, which may be either dominant or recessive, accounts for between 5 and 30% of all cases ( 15 ). It may present early in the neonatal period with symptoms of hypoglycemia, micropenis in males, prolonged jaundice, with/without midline defects or later in childhood with poor feeding, growth failure, or delayed puberty. It can be associated with single or multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies, and endocrinopathy. It may
