Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


with/without midline defects or later in childhood with poor feeding, growth failure, or delayed puberty. It can be associated with single or multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies, and endocrinopathy. It may be associated with several other congenital anomalies such as optic nerve hypoplasia, anophthalmia, microphthalmia, agenesis of the corpus callosum, and absence of the septum pellucidum. Table 1. Transcription Factors Required for Normal Pituitary Development. View in own window Transcription Factors Function GLI2 Essential for the forebrain and early stages of the anterior pituitary development LHX3 Essential for the early development of the anterior pituitary, including the somatotrope, thyrotrope, lactotrope and the gonadotrope (but not the corticotrope) LHX4 Essential for the proliferation of the anterior pituitary cell types, including the somatotrope, thyrotrope and the corticotrope HESX1 Essential for the development of the anterior pituitary, including the somatotrope, thyrotrope, lactotrope and the gonadotrope PROP1 Essential for the development of most cell types of the anterior pituitary, including the somatotrope, the thyrotrope, the lactotrope and the gonadotrope (but not the corticotrope). Also essential for the expression of the PIT1 protein and the extinction of HESX1 in the anterior pituitary POU1F1 ( PIT1 ) Necessary for somatotrope, lactotrope and thyrotrope development and for their continued function SOX2 Essential for the expression of POU1F1 and the development of the gonadotrope PITX2 Necessary for the development of gonadotrope, somatotrope, lactotrope and thyrotrope OTX2 Transactivates HESX1 and POU1F1 SOX3 Essential for the early formation of hypothalamic-pituitary axis GLI2 GLI2 is a transcription factor, mediating Sonic Hedgehog (SHH) signaling and is necessary for forebrain development as well as for the early stages of pituitary development ( 16 ). It is located on the long arm of chromosome 2 at position q14, ( Figure 1 ). The clinical phenotype of persons with mutations in GLI2 may vary from asymptomatic individuals to isolated GH deficiency to hypopituitarism in combination with a small anterior pituitary, ectopic posterior pituitary, midfacial hypoplasia, anophthalmia, holoprosencephaly, and polydactyly ( 17 – 19 ). Figure 1. The GLI2 gene. LHX3 LHX3 is a member of the LIM family of HomeoboX transcription factors. The LHX3 gene is located on 9q34.3, comprises 7 exons (including two alternative exon 1's, 1a and 1b) and encodes a protein of 402 amino acids ( Figure 2 . LHX3 is expressed in the developing Rathke's pouch and is required for the development of most anterior pituitary cell types, including the somatotrope, the
