Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


amino acids ( Figure 2 . LHX3 is expressed in the developing Rathke's pouch and is required for the development of most anterior pituitary cell types, including the somatotrope, the thyrotrope, the lactotrope and the gonadotrope (but notably not the corticotrope). LHX3 binds as a dimer, synergizing with POU1F1 ( PIT1 ). Two unrelated families with MPHD were identified in 2000 ( 20 ) as harboring mutations in LHX3 . The affected members of the family manifested severe growth retardation in association with restricted rotation of the cervical spine and a variable degree of sensory neural hearing loss. Inheritance is consistent with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance and of note one individual was found to have an enlarged pituitary. Recently, a new mutation in LHX3 was described in a child with hypointense pituitary lesion, focal amyotrophy and mental retardation in addition to neck rigidity and growth retardation ( 21 ). These clinical findings expand the phenotype associated with mutations in LHX3 . Figure 2. The LHX3 Gene. LHX4 LHX4 also has a critical role in the development of anterior pituitary cells and is co-expressed with LHX3 in Rathke's pouch in an overlapping but not wholly redundant pattern. Raetzman et al showed overlapping functions with PROP1 in early pituitary development but also observed that their mechanisms of action were not identical ( 22 ). While LHX4 is necessary for cell survival, LHX 3 expression is required for cell differentiation ( 23 ). The pituitary hypoplasia seen in LHX4 mutants results from increased cell death and reduced differentiation due to loss of LHX3 ( 22 ). However, PROP1 mutants exhibit normal cell proliferation and cell survival but show evidence of defective dorsal-ventral patterning ( 22 ). In the absence of both LHX4 and LHX3 genes, no specification of corticotropes, gonadotropes or thyrotropes occurs in the anterior lobe. Although both LHX3 and LHX4 are crucial for the development of pituitary gland, LHX3 is expressed at all stages studied, whereas LHX4 expression is transient at 6 weeks of development ( 24 ). LHX4 is located on 1q25 and comprises 6 exons spread over a 45 kb genomic region ( Figure 3 ). An intronic splice site mutation has been described in one family, manifesting GH, TSH and ACTH deficiency, along with cerebellar and skull defects. The mutation is transmitted as an autosomal dominant condition, with complete penetrance. Interestingly, a heterozygous mutant mouse model
