Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


manifesting GH, TSH and ACTH deficiency, along with cerebellar and skull defects. The mutation is transmitted as an autosomal dominant condition, with complete penetrance. Interestingly, a heterozygous mutant mouse model had no discernable phenotype, while homozygous loss of function in the mouse was fatal ( 25 ). Figure 3. The LHX4 Gene. HESX1 HESX1 (HomeoboX gene expressed in Embryonic Stem cells), also referred to as RPX1 (Rathke's Pouch HomeoboX) is necessary for the development of the anterior pituitary. RPX1 comprises 4 exons and encodes a protein of 185 amino acids that features both a homeodomain as well as a repressor domain and is located on chromosome 3p21.2 ( Figure 4 ). The extinguishing of HESX1 requires the appearance of another pituitary transcription factor, PROP1 . A mutation has been described in two children of a consanguineous union who had optic nerve hypoplasia, agenesis of the corpus callosum and panhypopituitarism, with an apparent autosomal recessive mode of inheritance ( 26 ). This Arg → Cys mutation lies between the repressor and homeodomains, but the mutant protein was shown in vitro to be unable to bind to its cognate sequences. A novel homozygous missense mutation (126T) of the critical engrailed homology repressor domain (eh1) of HESX1 was described in a girl born to consanguineous parents ( 27 ). Neuroimaging revealed a thin pituitary stalk with anterior pituitary hypoplasia and an ectopic posterior pituitary. Unlike previous cases, she did not have midline or optic nerve abnormalities. Although 126T mutation did not affect the DNA-binding ability of HESX1 , it impaired ability of HESX1 to recruit Groucho-related corepressor, thereby leading to partial loss of repression. It appears that HESX1 mutations exhibit a variety of clinical phenotypes with no clear genotype-phenotype correlation. Tantalizingly, additional nucleotide variants have been described in individuals with isolated GH deficiency, although it is not convincingly clear that these polymorphisms are pathogenic ( 28 , 29 ). Figure 4. The HESX1 Gene. PROP1 PROP1 (the Prophet of PIT-1) encodes a transcription factor required for the development of most pituitary cell lines, including the somatotrope (GH secretion), lactotrope (prolactin (PRL) secretion), thyrotrope (TSH secretion), and the gonadotrope (FSH and LH secretion). Mutation of PROP1 , therefore, results in the deficiency of GH, TSH, PRL, FSH and LH although some individuals with PROP1 mutations have been described with ACTH deficiency ( 30 ). Since PROP1 does not appear to be required for the
