Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


TSH, PRL, FSH and LH although some individuals with PROP1 mutations have been described with ACTH deficiency ( 30 ). Since PROP1 does not appear to be required for the development of the corticotrope cell line, the etiology of ACTH deficiency is unclear. It appears that the ACTH deficiency here is a consequence of the compensatory pituitary hyperplasia that develops over time. Significantly, the degree of TSH deficiency appears to be quite variable, even within mutation-identical individuals, suggesting that the general phenotype associated with PROP1 mutations is also quite variable. PROP1 is encoded by three exons and is located on 5q. Many mutations have been described in PROP1 -all inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Although several studies suggest that mutation of PROP1 is the most common cause of familial MPHD, it is less common in sporadic cases of MPHD ( 14 , 31 ). Two recurrent mutations have been described, both involving exonic runs of GA tandem repeats ( Figure 5 ). In both cases, the loss of a tandem unit at either locus results in a frameshift and premature termination, and a protein incapable of transactivation. Figure 5. The PROP1 Gene. POU1F1 POU1F1 encodes the POU1F1 transcription factor, also known as PIT1, which is required for the development and function of three major cell lines of anterior pituitary: somatotropes, lactotropes and thyrotropes. Various mutations in the gene encoding POU1F1 have been described, resulting in a syndrome of multiple pituitary hormone deficiency involving GH, PRL and TSH hormones. POU1F1 is located on 3p11 and consists of six exons encoding 291 amino acids ( Figure 6 ). Many mutations of POU1F1 have been described; some are inherited as autosomal recessive and some as autosomal dominant. There is a wide variety of clinical presentations in patients with POUF1 mutations. Generally, GH and prolactin deficiencies are seen early in life. However, TSH deficiency can be highly variable with presentation later in childhood or normal T4 secretion can be preserved into the 3rd decade ( 32 , 33 ). POU1F1 mutations have been described in a total of 46 patients from 34 families originating in 17 different countries ( 34 ). Recessive mutations are generally associated with decreased activation, while dominant mutations have been shown to bind but not transactivate - i.e. act as dominant-negative mutations, rather than through haploinsufficiency. One such mutation is the recurrent Arg271Trp (R271W), located in exon 6, which
