Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


been shown to bind but not transactivate - i.e. act as dominant-negative mutations, rather than through haploinsufficiency. One such mutation is the recurrent Arg271Trp (R271W), located in exon 6, which results from a C T transition at a CpG dinucleotide, i.e. a region predisposed to spontaneous mutagenesis. Another interesting mutation is the Lys216Glu mutation of exon 5. This mutation is unique in that the mutant transcription factor activates both the GH and PRL promoters at levels greater than wild-type ( i.e. acts as a super-agonist), but down-regulates its own ( i.e. the POU1F1 ) promoter-leading to decreased expression of PIT1 . R271W is the most frequent mutation of POU1F1 . Another report described a novel mutational hot spot (E230K) in Maltese patients suggests a founder effect ( 33 ). The same group reported two additional novel mutations within POU1F1 gene; an insertion of a single base pair (ins778A) and a missense mutation (R172Q) ( 31 ). Figure 6. The POU1F1 gene. SOX3 SOX3 encodes a single-exon gene SOX3 , an HMG box protein, located on the X chromosome (Xq26.3) in all mammals ( 35 ). It is believed to be the gene from which SRY, testis–determining gene evolved ( 36 ). Based on sequence homology, SOX, however, is more closely related to SOX1 and SOX2 , together comprising the SOXB1 subfamily and are expressed throughout the developing CNS ( 37 , 38 ). In humans, mutations in the SOX3 gene have been implicated in X-linked hypopituitarism and mental retardation. In a single family, a SOX3 gene mutation was shown in affected males who had mental retardation and short stature due to GH deficiency ( 39 ). The mutation was an in-frame duplication of 33 bp encoding for an additional 11-alanine, causing an expansion of a polyalanine tract within SOX3 . Other mutations including a submicroscopic duplication of Xq27.1 containing SOX3 , a novel 7-alanine expansion within the polyalanine tract, and a novel polymorphism (A43T) in the SOX3 gene were described in males with hypopituitarism ( 40 ). Phenotypes of these patients include severe short stature, anterior pituitary hypoplasia, ectopic posterior pituitary, hypoplastic corpus callosum, and infundibular hypoplasia. Although duplications of SOX3 have been implicated in the etiology of X-linked hypopituitarism with mental retardation, in at least one study, none of the affected individuals had mental retardation or learning difficulties ( 40 ). Taken together, the data suggests that SOX3 has
