Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


with mental retardation, in at least one study, none of the affected individuals had mental retardation or learning difficulties ( 40 ). Taken together, the data suggests that SOX3 has a critical role in the development of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis in humans, and mutations in SOX3 gene are associated with X-linked hypopituitarism but not necessarily mental retardation ( 40 ). ISOLATED GH DEFICIENCY (IGHD) Abnormalities either in the synthesis or the activity of GH can cause a wide variation in the clinical phenotype of the patient. Most frequently, it occurs as a sporadic condition of unknown etiology but severe forms of IGHD may result from mutations or deletions in GH1 or GHRHR gene. General clinical features of IGHD deficiency include proportionate growth retardation accompanied by a decreased growth velocity, puppet-like facies, mid-facial hypoplasia, frontal bossing, thin hair, a high-pitched voice, microphallus, moderate trunk obesity, acromicria, delayed bone maturation and dentition. Most children with IGHD have normal birth weight and length, however, some newborns may present with hypoglycemia, microphallus, and prolonged jaundice. Patients with IGHD appear younger than their chronological age. Puberty may be delayed until late teens, but usually fertility is preserved. To date, four Mendelian patterns of inheritance for IGHD have been identified based on the type of defect, mode of inheritance, and degree of deficiency. 1. Type 1 GH deficiency is an autosomal recessively inherited condition, which exists as either complete, or partial loss of GH expression. a) Type 1a deficiency is characterized by the complete absence of measurable GH. Infants born with a type 1a defect are generally of normal length and weight, suggesting that, in utero , GH is not an essential growth factor ( 41 , 42 ). Growth immediately after birth and during infancy may also be less dependent on circulating GH levels than during other phases of life. Patients with Type 1a deficiency initially respond to rhGH treatment well. However, about 1/3 of patients develop antibodies to GH which leads to markedly decreased final height as adults ( 34 ). The exact prevalence of Type 1a deficiency is not known, and most reported families are consanguineous ( 34 ). Mutations in Type 1a have been described in GH1 and GHRHR -including nonsense mutations, microdeletions/frameshifts, and missense mutations. b) Type 1b deficiency represents a state of partial - rather than an absolute - deficiency of GH, with measurable (but insufficient) serum GH. Therefore, Type
