Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


microdeletions/frameshifts, and missense mutations. b) Type 1b deficiency represents a state of partial - rather than an absolute - deficiency of GH, with measurable (but insufficient) serum GH. Therefore, Type 1b is milder than Type 1a deficiency. Patients with Type 1b deficiency do not typically present with mid-facial hypoplasia or microphallus. They also have a good response to GH treatment without developing GH antibodies. Most cases of Type 1b GH deficiency are caused by missense and/or splice site mutations in the GH1 and GHRHR genes ( 43 ). 1. Type 2 GH deficiency is an autosomal dominantly inherited disorder with reduced secretion of GH. Patients with Type 2 GHD usually do not have any pituitary abnormality ( 44 ). However, recently, it has been shown that their pituitary may become small over time ( 45 ). They have a good response to GH treatment. This type of GH deficiency is intuitively less clear, since autosomal dominant conditions generally occur because of either haploinsufficiency or secondary to dominant-negative activity. Haploinsufficiency, however, has not been demonstrated in the obligate heterozygote carriers of individuals harboring GH1 deletions, and is therefore an unlikely explanation. Dominant-negative activity is usually associated with multimeric proteins, also making this explanation less intuitive. Type 2 GHD appears to be the most common form of IGHD, and many mutations have been identified in GH1 including splicing and missense mutations ( 46 – 53 ). Recent studies suggest that GH1 may not be the only gene involved in Type 2 GHD. Screening 30 families with autosomal dominant IGHD did not show any GH1 mutations, raising the possibility of other gene(s) being involved ( 54 ). 2. Type 3 growth hormone deficiency is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. There are no candidate genes and no compelling explanations for this condition. There are no reported mutations of the GH-1 gene in Type 3 GHD. In addition to short stature, patients may also have agammaglobulinemia ( 34 ). Table 2 summarizes the phenotypes of mutations involved in human pituitary transcription factors causing IGHD and MPHD and their mode of inheritance. Table 2. Genotype and Phenotype Correlations in Human Pituitary Transcription Factors View in own window Gene Phenotype Mode of Inheritance IGHD GH-1 IGHD type 1a/1b IGHD type 2 IGHD type 3 AR AD X-linked GHRHR IGHD type 1b AR MPHD LHX3 Deficiencies of GH, TSH, LH, FSH, PRL, rigid neck, small/normal/or enlarged anterior
