Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


type 1a/1b IGHD type 2 IGHD type 3 AR AD X-linked GHRHR IGHD type 1b AR MPHD LHX3 Deficiencies of GH, TSH, LH, FSH, PRL, rigid neck, small/normal/or enlarged anterior pituitary AR LHX4 Deficiencies of GH, TSH and ACTH, small anterior pituitary, cerebellar and skull defects AD HESX1 Hypopituitarism, optic nerve hypoplasia, agenesis of the corpus callosum, ectopic posterior pituitary AR/AD PROP1 Hypopituitarism except ACTH deficiency, small/normal/or enlarged anterior pituitary AR POU1F1 ( PIT1 ) Deficiencies of GH, TSH, PRL, small or normal anterior pituitary AR/AD SOX3 Hypopituitarism, mental retardation, learning difficulties, small anterior pituitary, ectopic posterior pituitary, X-linked recessive OTX2 Hypopituitarism, microphthalmia, microcephaly, cleft palate AD GLI2 Hypopituitarism, small anterior pituitary, ectopic posterior pituitary, holoprosencephaly, polydactyly AD * AR: Autosomal Recessive; AD: Autosomal Dominant. HYPOTHALAMIC GH DEFICIENCY Synthesis and Secretion of GH GH is synthesized within the somatotropes of the anterior pituitary gland and is secreted into circulation in a pulsatile fashion under tripartite control, stimulated by growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH), Growth Hormone Secretagogues (GHS) such as Ghrelin and inhibited by somatostatin (SST) ( Figure 7 ). GHRH, GHS and SST secretion are themselves regulated by numerous central nervous system neurotransmitters ( Table 3 ). GH, via a complex signal transduction, exerts direct metabolic effects on target tissues and exerts many of its growth effects through releasing of IGF1 which is mainly produced by the liver and the target tissues ( e.g. growth plates). Additional regulation of GH secretion is achieved through feedback control by IGF1 and GH at the pituitary and at the hypothalamus. Figure 7. Hypothalamic-pituitary-peripheral regulation of GH Secretion. SST, somatostatin; GHRH, growth hormone releasing hormone; IGF1, insulin-like growth factor type 1. Table 3. Neurotransmitters and Neuropeptides Regulating GHRH Secretion from Hypothalamus View in own window Dopamine Gastrin GABA Neurotensin Substance-P Calcitonin TRH Neuropeptide-Y Acetylcholine Vasopressin VIP CRHs Timing In addition to the absolute GH levels reached, the timing of the GH pulse is also physiologically important. GH is secreted in episodic pulses throughout the day, and the basal levels of GH are often immeasurably low between these peaks ( Figure 8 ). Figure 8 illustrates normal spontaneous daily GH secretion, while figure 9 represents that of a child with GH deficiency. Figure 8. The characteristic pulsatile pattern of GH secretion in normal children. Note the maximal GH secretion during the night. Figure 9. GH secretion in a child with GH deficiency. Note the loss
