Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


characteristic pulsatile pattern of GH secretion in normal children. Note the maximal GH secretion during the night. Figure 9. GH secretion in a child with GH deficiency. Note the loss (both qualitative and quantitative) of episodic pulses seen in normal children. Approximately 67% or more of the daily production of GH in children and young adults occurs overnight, and most of that during the early nighttime hours that follow the onset of deep sleep. During puberty, there is an increase in GH pulse amplitude and duration, most likely due to estrogens ( 55 ). GH secretion is sexually dimorphic, with females having higher secretory burst mass per peak but no difference in the frequency of peaks, or basal GH release ( 56 ). In addition, GH secretion is stimulated by multiple physiological factors ( Table 4 ). Overweight children, independent of pubertal status, have reduced GH levels mainly due to reduced GH burst mass with no change in frequency ( 57 ). Table 4. Physiological Factors that Affect GH Secretion View in own window Factors that stimulate GH secretion Factors that suppress GH secretion Exercise Hypothyroidism Stress Obesity Hypoglycemia Hyperglycemia Fasting High carbohydrate meals High protein meals Excess glucocorticoids Sleep Growth Hormone Releasing Hormone GHRH (also known as Somatocrinin) is the hypothalamic-releasing hormone isolated in 1982 ( 58 ) believed to be the chief mediator of GH secretion from the somatotrope. GHRH deficiency is thought to be the most common cause of 'acquired' GHRH deficiency, secondary to (even mild) birth trauma. GHRH includes 5 exons, with transcription of (the non-coding) exon 1 differing on a tissue-specific basis ( 59 ). The mature GHRH protein contains 44 amino acids, with an amidated carboxy terminus ( Figure 10 ). Despite this post-translational modification, much of the GH-secreting ability resides in the (original) amino half, allowing the synthesis of shorter peptides retaining efficacy ( e.g. 1-29 GHRH). Despite being cloned in 1985 ( 60 ), there are no reports of (spontaneous) mutations in humans or in any animal model. Individuals with mutations in GHRH are predicted to have isolated GH deficiency. Figure 10. The growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH) gene. Growth Hormone Releasing Hormone Receptor GHRHR was cloned in 1992 ( 61 ), described as the cause of isolated GH deficiency (IGHD) in the Little strain of dwarf mouse by 1993 ( 62 , 63 ), mapped in the human by 1994 (
