Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


described as the cause of isolated GH deficiency (IGHD) in the Little strain of dwarf mouse by 1993 ( 62 , 63 ), mapped in the human by 1994 ( 64 ), and demonstrated to be a cause of human GH deficiency in 1996 ( 43 ). GHRHR is located on 7p15 ( 64 ), comprises 13 exons and encodes a protein of 423 amino acids, belonging to the G-protein coupled, heptahelical transmembrane domain receptors ( Figure 10 ). The initial reports of GHRHR mutations were in geographically isolated (and therefore endogamous) populations in South Asia ( 43 , 65 , 66 ) and later in Brazil ( 67 ). In fact, haplotype analysis of the GHRHR locus in three unrelated families from the Indian subcontinent, carrying the identical E72X nonsense mutation in GHRHR indicated that this represents a common ancient founder mutation ( 68 ). An independent analysis of patients with familial isolated GH deficiency from non-consanguineous families revealed that most patients carried the identical E72X mutation, suggesting that E72X mutation can be a reasonable candidate for isolated GH deficiency ( 69 ). There are now numerous other reports, making GHRHR one of the most mutated genes in IGHD. Roelfsema et al studied two members of a single family with an inactivating mutation of the GHRHR and noted that the 'normal' pattern of spontaneous GH production was preserved, although the absolute quantity of GH secreted was quite low and the approximate entropy significantly elevated ( 70 ); supporting the view that the amplitude of a GH pulse is the result of a GHRH burst, while the timing of GH pulses is the result of a somatostatin trough. Figure 11. The growth hormone releasing hormone receptor (GHRHR) gene. Ghrelin In 1977 Bowers et al ( 71 ) reported on the ability of enkephalins to secrete GH and it was later demonstrated that this secretion was independent of GHRH. This sentinel finding gave rise to a new field of study, that of the growth hormone releasing peptides (GHRPs) or growth hormone secretagogues (GHSs). Twenty-two years later Kojima et al ( 72 ) reported the isolation of the endogenous ligand whose actions were mimicked by the enkephalins. They named the hormone Ghrelin, based on the Proto-Indian word for 'grow'. Ghrelin is located on 3p25-26 ( 73 ) ( Figure 12 ), is processed from a ‘preproGhrelin’ precursor, and is primarily produced by
