Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


based on the Proto-Indian word for 'grow'. Ghrelin is located on 3p25-26 ( 73 ) ( Figure 12 ), is processed from a ‘preproGhrelin’ precursor, and is primarily produced by the oxyntic cells of the stomach and to a lesser extent in the arcuate ventro-medial and infundibular nuclei of the hypothalamus ( 74 ). Ghrelin also plays a role in regulating food intake. In addition to its GH secreting actions, direct intracerebroventricular injection of Ghrelin in mice has potent orexigenic “appetite stimulating” action, and this action is mediated by NPY, which antagonizes the actions of Leptin. Several studies have shown that, on a molar basis, Ghrelin is significantly more potent at inducing GH secretion than GHRH ( 75 ). Additionally, many of these studies have shown that Ghrelin and GHRH are synergistic, inducing a substantial GH response when given in combination ( 76 – 79 ). Several studies comparing GHRH and Ghrelin demonstrate that 1 ug/kg GHRH results in a GH peak of approximately 25 ng/ml, 1 ug/kg Ghrelin results in a GH peak of approximately 80 ng/ml GH, but when given together, 1ug/kg of GHRH + 1 ug/kg Ghrelin results in a GH peak of approximately 120 ng/ml ( 79 , 80 ). When short normal children were compared to children with neurosecretory GH deficiency, Ghrelin secretion was similar in both groups during daytime, but higher Ghrelin levels were detected during the night in short children with neurosecretory GH deficiency. The authors therefore suggest that Ghrelin is not involved in nighttime GH secretion ( 81 ), although these findings are also consistent with a relative Ghrelin insensitivity at night. In a group of boys with constitutional delay of puberty, testosterone administration caused the expected increase in GH concentrations but did not affect the 24-hour Ghrelin profile, suggesting that the testosterone-induced GH secretion was not mediated by Ghrelin ( 82 ). Another study demonstrated a decrease in Ghrelin concentrations following glucagon administration in a group of non-GH-deficient short children, suggesting that Ghrelin does not mediate glucagon-induced GH secretion ( 83 ). A second hormone, Obestatin is also known to be produced from preproghrelin. Obestatin has anorexigenic effects, opposite those of Ghrelin ( 84 ). Several nucleotide changes have been identified in the preproghrelin locus, and some are associated with body mass index, BMI ( 85 ). It is not clear, however, whether these are polymorphisms, or distinct mutations. It is
