Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


in the preproghrelin locus, and some are associated with body mass index, BMI ( 85 ). It is not clear, however, whether these are polymorphisms, or distinct mutations. It is also not clear whether these nucleotide variants exert their effects solely via an altered Ghrelin, a corrupted Obestatin, or a combination of the two. A knockout mouse lacking the preproghrelin locus had no statural or weight phenotype, but this may well be the result of the simultaneous loss of both ghrelin and Obestatin. To this point, a transgenic mouse with abnormal ghrelin but normal Obestatin did indeed have poor weight gain, explained by either ghrelin deficiency, unopposed Obestatin, or both. There are no reports of (spontaneous) mutations in Ghrelin associated with short stature, either in humans or in any animal model, although polymorphisms have been associated with weight/metabolic syndrome. The theoretical phenotype of such an individual would presumably be that of isolated GH deficiency, most likely of post-natal onset and possibly with an abnormally low appetite. Figure 12. The ghrelin (GHS) gene structure. Ghrelin Receptor The receptor for Ghrelin (GHSR) was identified in 1996 by Howard et al ( 74 ), prior to the identification of the ligand, and maps to 3q26-27 ( Figure 13 ). Mutations of the GHSR gene have been reported in individuals with isolated GH deficiency ( 86 ). Combining data from numerous investigators, there appear to be differences in the specific roles of these parallel but independent pathways for GH secretion. Given that: 1. Ghrelin induces a larger release of GH than GHRH, 2. Both bolus and continuous GHRH infusion results in a chronic release of GH ( 87 ), 3. A bolus of Ghrelin results in GH secretion, but continuous Ghrelin infusion does not; and 4. Ghrelin administration (bolus or continuous) does not cause an increase in GH mRNA. It is therefore likely that the GHRH/ GHRHR arm of the somatotropin pathway serves primarily in the production of de novo GH, and secondarily in the release of (pre-made) GH while Ghrelin/GHSR may serve primarily in the release of stored GH, and only secondarily-if at all-in the production of de novo GH ( 80 , 88 ). Figure 13. The Ghrelin receptor (GHSR) gene. Somatostatin The somatostatin gene (SST) is located on 3q28, and contains two exons, encoding a 116 amino acid pre-prosomatostatin molecule that is refined down to a 14 amino acid cyclic peptide
