Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


The somatostatin gene (SST) is located on 3q28, and contains two exons, encoding a 116 amino acid pre-prosomatostatin molecule that is refined down to a 14 amino acid cyclic peptide (as well as a 28 amino acid precursor/isoform) ( 89 ) (see figure 14 ). Pancreatic somatostatin inhibits the release of both insulin and glucagon, while in the CNS, somatostatin inhibits the actions of several hypothalamic hormones, including GHRH. For this reason, somatostatin is also known as Growth Hormone Release Inhibiting Hormone. Somatostatin's widespread effects are mediated by five different receptors, all encoded by different genes (rather than through alternative splicing of a single gene). The anti-GHRH actions on the pituitary are primarily mediated by somatostatin receptors (SSTR) 2 and 5, which act by inhibiting cAMP as well as other pathways ( 90 ) (see figures 15 and 16 ). There is a single case report of a nucleotide variant in SSTR5 , occurring in a subject with acromegaly. (This individual, however, was also reported as having a mutation in the GSP oncogene, placing the pathological nature of the SSTR5 variant in question). Whereas GHRH induces release of growth hormone stored in secretory vesicles by depolarization of the somatotrope, somatostatin inhibits GH release by hyperpolarizing the somatotrope, rendering it unresponsive to GHRH. There are no reports of mutations in the somatostatin gene, or in SSTR2 . All three of these hypothalamic modifiers of GH secretion act through cell-membrane receptors of the G-protein coupled receptor (GCPR) class. These receptors are characterized by seven membrane-spanning helical domains, an extracellular region that binds (but does not internalize) the ligand hormone, and an intracellular domain that interacts with a G-protein, which contains a catalytic subunit that generates a second messenger ( e.g. cyclic AMP or inositol triphosphate). Figure 14. The somatostatin (SST) gene. Figure 15. The somatostatin receptor 2 (SSTR2) gene. Figure 16. The somatostatin receptor 5 (SSTR5) gene. PITUITARY GH DEFICIENCY Human Growth Hormone GH is critical for growth through (most of) childhood as well as for optimal metabolic, neurocognitive, cardiac, musculoskeletal and adipose function throughout life. GH acts through GH receptors on cells of a variety of target tissues. Many, but not all, actions of GH are mediated by insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1), also known as Somatomedin-C. IGF1 is released in response to GH and acts as both a hormone and an autocrine/paracrine factor. GH, directly and indirectly through the actions
