Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


1 (IGF1), also known as Somatomedin-C. IGF1 is released in response to GH and acts as both a hormone and an autocrine/paracrine factor. GH, directly and indirectly through the actions of IGF1, stimulates tissue growth and proliferation, most notably in the epiphyseal growth plates of children, increases lean muscle mass, decreases fat mass, and increases bone mineral density. Growth hormone is a single-chain polypeptide that contains 191 amino acids with two intramolecular disulfide bonds and the molecular weight of 22,128 Daltons. The GH protein (GHN) is encoded by the GH1 gene located on chromosome 17q22-q24 ( Figure 17 ) in a complex of five genes: two for the growth hormone/growth hormone variant ( GH1 , GH2), two for chorionic somatomammotropin (CS1, CS2), and one for the somatomammotropin pseudogene (CSL). GH2 encodes the GHV protein that is secreted by the placenta into maternal circulation. GHV has greater lactogenic properties than does GHN and may function to maintain the maternal blood sugar in a desirable range, thus ensuring sufficient nutrition for the fetus. Figure 17. Growth hormone (GH1) gene. PERIPHERAL GH RESISTANCE Growth Hormone Receptor Growth failure with normal serum GH levels is well known, both at the genetic and clinical level. Although such cases may be due to defects of GH1 ( e.g. bio inactive GH), many such subjects have been shown to have mutations in the GH Receptor (GHR), i.e. Growth Hormone Insensitivity, known as Laron Syndrome. Biochemical hallmarks of this syndrome are increased or normal GH levels with low IGF1 and with absent or decreased response to GH treatment ( 91 ). The growth hormone receptor gene (GHR) is located on 5p13-12 and contains 10 exons which span a physical distance of almost 300 kb of genomic DNA ( Figure 18 ). The GHR consists of a ligand-binding extracellular domain, an 'anchoring' transmembrane domain and an intracellular domain with intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity. A monomeric GHR binds a single GH molecule, which then dimerizes a second GHR, and activates the JAK/STAT and MAPK pathways and is internalized. The internalization leads to extinguishing of the GH signal, and the GHR is recycled for further rounds of activity. Two naturally occurring isoforms of the GHR arise from alternative splicing-one with an alternate exon 3, and the other with an alternate exon 9. The alternative exon 9 isoform yields a protein with only amino acids 1-279, and virtually none of the intracellular
