Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


alternate exon 3, and the other with an alternate exon 9. The alternative exon 9 isoform yields a protein with only amino acids 1-279, and virtually none of the intracellular domain. This isoform cannot transduce the GH signal and yields higher molar quantities of GHBP (than wild-type GHR) and therefore acts as a GH "sink" ( 92 ). The GHR isoform lacking exon 3 has a high prevalence, and may be associated with altered GH signaling, although the direction of the alteration is not clear ( 93 – 96 ). Figure 18. The growth hormone receptor (GHR) gene. Defects in the GH signaling pathway have been demonstrated to be associated with postnatal growth failure. Mutations of Stat5b were reported in patients with severe growth failure. Several mutations of Stat5b gene have been reported. Although patients had a phenotype similar to that of congenital GH deficiency or GHR dysfunction, clinical and biochemical features (including normal serum GHBP concentrations) and immune deficiency ( 97 ) distinguish patients with STAT5b defects from patients with GHR defects. It also appears that STAT5b mutations are associated with hyperprolactinemia. It remains unclear whether the hyperprolactinemia is a direct or indirect effect of STAT5b mutations ( 98 ). In humans, the extracellular portion of GHR is enzymatically cleaved and functions as the GH-Binding Protein (GHBP) ( 99 ). GHBP presumably serves to maintain GH in an inactive form in the circulation and to prolong the half-life of GH. Serum levels of GHBP are therefore used as a surrogate marker for the presence of GHR, and abnormal levels-both elevated and decreased-may indicate abnormality in the GHR ( 100 , 101 ). Of note is that mutations have also been described in individuals with 'normal' GHBP levels. GHI secondary to GHR mutations are mostly autosomal recessive mutations, but dominant negative mutations have also been described. Individuals with heterozygote mutations in GHR may present with significant short stature ( 102 ). Mutations in GHR have also been associated with idiopathic short stature (ISS) ( 103 – 105 ). The original reports of GHR mutation described limited elbow extension and blue sclera, but these findings are not universal. Many genetic abnormalities have been described in GHR , including nonsense mutations, missense mutations, macrodeletions, microdeletions and splice site changes. Of the latter, one of the most interesting is the "E180E" mutation, wherein an exonic adenosine is converted to a guanine, converting GAA
