Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


mutations, macrodeletions, microdeletions and splice site changes. Of the latter, one of the most interesting is the "E180E" mutation, wherein an exonic adenosine is converted to a guanine, converting GAA to GAG, which would be predicted to not change the amino acid structure of GHR (both GAA and GAG encode glutamic acid). On this basis, this "silent polymorphism" would be expected to have no phenotype, but in reality, causes GH resistance and extreme short stature by activation of a cryptic splice site. This mutation was noted in Loja and El Oro, Ecuador in two large cohorts. This identical mutation has also been identified in Jews of Moroccan descent, suggesting that this mutation dates to at least the 1400’s and that the Ecuadorian cohorts, therefore, likely represent Sephardic Jews who left Spain around the time of the Inquisition at the end of the fifteenth century, CE ( 106 ). Another splice site mutation at position 785-3 (C>A in the intron 7) was recently described in a patient and mother with short stature and extremely elevated GHBP ( 107 ). The consequence of this novel mutation is a truncated GHR which lacks the transmembrane domain (encoded by exon 8) and the cytoplasmic domain. It was hypothesized by the authors that this GHR variant cannot attach to the cell membrane, and the continual secretion into the circulation results in the elevated levels of serum GHBP detected in the patient and his mother. The presence of the wild-type GHR allele presumably permits some level of normal GH-induced action. Insulin-Like Growth Factor 1 (IGF1) Many of growth hormone's physiological actions are mediated through the insulin-like growth factor, IGF1 (formerly referred to as somatomedin C). Serum IGF1 levels are commonly measured as a surrogate marker of GH status since IGF1 displays minimal circadian fluctuation in serum concentration. IGF1 plays a critical role in both prenatal and postnatal growth, signaling through the IGF1 as well as the insulin receptors ( Table 5 ). IGF1 circulates as a ternary complex consisting of IGF1, IGFBP3, and ALS. IGF bioavailability is regulated by a metalloprotease termed ‘pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A2’ (PAPPA2) ( 108 ). PAPPA2 cleaves IGFBP3 or IGFBP5 to free IGF1 from its ternary complex, allowing it to bind to its target tissues. In addition to PAPPA2, stanniocalcin-2 (STC2) also plays a critical role in IGF1 bioavailability by inhibiting the proteolytic activity of PAPPA2 ( 109 , 110 ). The
