Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


due to loss of negative feedback regulation by the low circulating IGF1. Increased GH secretion could then up-regulate the functional GH receptor increasing local IGF1 production, thus partially protecting linear growth ( 97 ) ( Figure 20 ). Over a dozen inactivating mutations of the IGFALS gene have been described in patients with ALS deficiency ( 123 ). Figure 20. The effect of ALS mutations on the GH-IGF1 axis. Savage MO Camacho-Hubner C, David A, et al. 2007” Idiopathic short stature: will genetics influence the choice between GH and IGF1 therapy?” Eu J of Endocrine 157:S33 Society of European Journal of Endocrinology (2007). Reproduced by permission. Reprinted with permission ( 124 ). Elevated IGF1 levels has recently been associated with colon, prostate and breast cancer ( 125 – 127 ) and the association was strongest when an elevated IGF1 was combined with a decreased IGFBP3 level. This combination-expected to yield more bioactive IGF1 may merely reflect the tumorigenic process, rather than demonstrate causality. Importantly, GH treatment induces a rise in both IGF1 as well as IGFBP3 ( 128 ) and therefore would not be expected to increase cancer risk in normal individuals. Table 5. Summary of IGF1 Function in Different Systems and its Effects ( 129 ) View in own window IGF1 Function IGF1 Deficiency Intrauterine Growth IUGR Postnatal Growth Short Stature CNS Neurodegenerative disease Insulin sensitization/improvement of glucose disposal/beta cell proliferation Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes IGF1 Excess Mitosis/Inhibition of apoptosis Malignancy IGF1 Deficiency IGF1 deficiency can be classified based on decreased IGF1 synthesis (primary) or decreased IGF1 as a result of decreased or inactive GH (secondary) ( 130 ) (see Table 6 ). Table 6. IGF1 Deficiency View in own window Primary IGF1 Deficiency (normal or elevated GH levels) Defects in IGF1 Production: Mutation in IGF1 gene or bio inactive IGF1 GHR receptor signaling defects (JAK/STAT) Mutations in ALS gene Factors affecting IGF1 production (malnutrition, liver, inflammatory bowel disorders, celiac disease) Defects in IGF1 Action: IGF1 resistance due to receptor or post-receptor defects Factors inhibiting IGF1 binding to IGF1R (increased IGFBPs and presence of IGF1 antibodies) Defects in GH Action: Factors inhibiting (increased GHBPs and presence of GH antibodies) GH receptor defects (decreased GH receptors, GHR antibodies, GHR gene defects) Secondary IGF1 Deficiency (decreased GH levels) Decreased GH production Defects in GH gene Defects in GHRH or GHRH receptor Psychological disorders Defects in hypothalamus and pituitary Recombinant
