Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


GHR gene defects) Secondary IGF1 Deficiency (decreased GH levels) Decreased GH production Defects in GH gene Defects in GHRH or GHRH receptor Psychological disorders Defects in hypothalamus and pituitary Recombinant Human IGF1 (rhIGF1) rhIGF1 is useful in the treatment of primary IGF1 deficiency resulting from abnormalities of the GH molecule (resulting in a bio inactive GH), the GH receptor (known as Laron syndrome) or GH signaling cascade ( 131 ). Studies have shown that rhIGF1 significantly improves height in children unresponsive to rhGH ( 132 , 133 ), and clinical trials clearly demonstrated better response to IGF1 therapy when initiated at an early age ( 134 ). FDA approved conditions for rhIGF1 treatment for children with ( 135 ): 1. Severe primary IGF1 deficiency 2. GH gene deletions who have developed neutralizing antibodies to GH Severe primary IGF1 deficiency is defined by: 1. Height SD score is less than -3SD 2. Basal IGF1 level is below -3SD 3. Normal or elevated GH The recommended starting dose of rhIGF1 is 40-80 microgram/kg twice daily by subcutaneous injection. If it is tolerated well for at least one week, the dose may be increased by 40 microgram/kg per dose, to the maximum dose of 120 microgram/kg per dose ( 136 ). The most common side effects of IGF1 treatment are pain at injection site and headaches which mostly diminish after the first month of treatment ( 131 ). Other less common side effects are lipohypertrophy at the injection site, pseudotumor cerebri, facial nerve palsy and hypoglycemia ( 134 ). Another effect of IGF1 treatment is a significant increase in fat mass and BMI ( 137 ) — in contradistinction to the lipolytic effect of rhGH treatment. Coarsening of facial features, increased hair growth, slipped capital femoral epiphysis, scoliosis, hypersensitivity, and allergic reactions including anaphylaxis are other prominent adverse effects and are most commonly seen during puberty. Growth of lymphoid tissue is a concern which may require tonsillectomy ( 131 ). Insulin-Like Growth Factor 1 Receptor (IGF1R) The receptor for IGF1 is structurally related to the insulin receptor and similarly has tyrosine kinase activity ( Figure 21 ). IGF1R is located on 15q25-26. The mature (human) IGF1 receptor contains 1337 amino acids and has potent anti-apoptotic activity ( 137 ). The IGF1 receptor transduces signals from IGF1, IGF2 and insulin. However, murine data suggest that initially (in the embryo) only the IGF2 signal is
