Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


potent anti-apoptotic activity ( 137 ). The IGF1 receptor transduces signals from IGF1, IGF2 and insulin. However, murine data suggest that initially (in the embryo) only the IGF2 signal is operational, while later on in development ( i.e. the fetus), both IGF1 and IGF2 (and probably insulin) signal through the IGF1R ( 112 ). Hemizygosity for IGF1R has been reported in a single patient (and appears likely in others) with IUGR, microcephaly, micrognathia, renal anomalies, lung hypoplasia and delayed growth and development ( 138 ). Murine and human studies have shown that mutations in IGF1R result in combined intrauterine and postnatal growth failure ( 104 ), confirming the critical role of the IGF system on embryonic, fetal and postnatal growth. A novel heterozygous mutation in the tyrosine kinase domain of the IGF1R gene was recently identified in a family with short stature. The mutation, a heterozygous 19-nucleotide duplication within exon 18 of the IGF1R gene, results in haploinsufficiency of the IGF1R protein due to nonsense mediated mRNA decay ( 139 ). Figure 21. The Insulin-Like Growth Factor 1 Receptor (IGF1R) gene. In summary, IGF1 and IGF1R mutations should be considered if a child presents with the following: Intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation Microcephaly Mental retardation Developmental delay Sensorineural deafness Micrognathia Very low or very high levels of serum IGF1 High serum (total) IGF1 levels are observed in patients with loss-of-function mutations in pregnancy-associated plasma protein A2 ( PAPPA2) ( 140 ). As noted earlier, PAPPA2 is responsible for cleaving IGFBP3 or IGFBP5 to free bioactive IGF1 from its ternary complex so that IGF1 binds to its target sites ( 108 ). Loss-of-function mutations in PAPPA2 decrease biologically active ( i.e. ‘free’) IGF1 levels and cause short stature ( 140 , 141 ). To date, a total of seven patients with PAPPA2 mutations have been reported from three unrelated families ( 141 , 142 ). Patients generally had similar clinical phenotypes with growth failure, microcephaly, micrognathia, delayed dental eruption, thin long bones, and decreased bone mineral density ( 141 ). Their total serum IGF1, IGF2, IGFBP3, IGFBP5, and ALS levels were elevated but the affected individuals had decreased free IGFI levels and IGF1 bioactivity ( 141 ). Serum PAPPA2 levels were either undetectable or low ( 143 ). Both short-term and long-term treatment with rhIGF1 has been shown to be effective improving linear growth in children with PAPPA2 deficiency with variable
