Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


either undetectable or low ( 143 ). Both short-term and long-term treatment with rhIGF1 has been shown to be effective improving linear growth in children with PAPPA2 deficiency with variable height gain results and positive effects on bone mineral density and bone structure ( 142 , 144 – 148 ). Although the majority of subjects tolerated rhIGF1 treatment with no adverse effects, pseudotumor cerebri was noted to be the most common adverse event ( 147 ). A single patient with PAPPA2 deficiency was administered fresh frozen plasma with the goal to restore PAPPA2 activity. Interestingly, the patient responded with significantly increased free IGF1 levels, but her serum PAPPA2 levels did not measurably increase. in vitro addition of rhPAPPA2 to the patients serum similarly demonstrated an increase in free IGF1, as did the serum of patients with ISS, although the increase in ISS patients was less robust ( 149 ). However, authors caution first establishing the normal ranges for PAPPA2 and free IGF1 before developing PAPPA2 as a potential novel treatment for growth. Insulin-Like Growth Factor 2 (IGF2) IGF2 is thought to be a major prenatal growth hormone and to be less critical for statural growth in post-natal life. The human gene, IGF2 , is located on 11p15.5 ( Figure 22 ). Chromosome 11p15.5 carries a group of maternally ( IGF2 ) and paternally ( H19 ) imprinted genes that are crucial for embryonic and/or fetal growth. Genetic or epigenetic changes in the 11p15.5 region alter this growth ( 150 ). IGF2 is maternally imprinted, meaning that the maternal allele is unexpressed. The close proximity of INS to IGF2 -in addition to nearly 50% amino acid identity-suggest that these genes arose through gene duplication events from a common ancestor gene. IGF2 acts via the IGF1 receptor (as well as the insulin receptor). Over-expression of IGF2 results in overgrowth, similar to that seen in Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome (which can be due to loss of imprinting, effectively doubling IGF2 expression). A mouse model overexpressing Igf2 demonstrates increased body size, organomegaly, omphalocele, cardiac, adrenal and skeletal abnormalities, suggestive of Beckwith-Wiedemann and Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndromes ( 151 ). Interestingly, IGF2 expression is normally extinguished by the Wilm's Tumor protein (WT1), providing an explanation for the overgrowth ( e.g. hemi-hypertrophy) typically seen in subjects with Wilm's Tumor ( 152 ). In contrast, mice without a functional Igf2 (Igf2 knockouts) are born 40% smaller than their normal littermates (identical
