Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


e.g. hemi-hypertrophy) typically seen in subjects with Wilm's Tumor ( 152 ). In contrast, mice without a functional Igf2 (Igf2 knockouts) are born 40% smaller than their normal littermates (identical to Igf1 knockouts). Figure 22. The Insulin-Like Growth Factor 2 (IGF2) gene. Recent reports on individuals with severe intrauterine growth retardation showed maternal duplication of 11p15 ( 153 ). Furthermore, individuals with Silver-Russell-syndrome (SRS, also known as Russell-Silver syndrome) have been found to have an epimutation (demethylation) associated with biallelic expression of H19 and down regulation of IGF2 ( 154 , 155 ). Russell-Silver syndrome is a congenital disorder characterized by intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation, typical facial features (triangular face, micrognathia, frontal bossing, downward slanting of corners of the mouth), asymmetry, and clinodactyly. Other chromosomal abnormalities such as maternal uniparental disomy on chromosome 7 also have been shown in 10% of individuals with SRS ( 156 ). A paternally derived balanced chromosomal translocation that disrupted the regulatory regions of the predominantly paternally expressed IGF2 gene was described in a woman with short stature, history of severe intrauterine growth retardation (-5.4 SDS), atypical diabetes and lactation failure ( 157 ). Insulin-Like Growth Factor 2 Receptor (IGF2R) A receptor for IGF2, the IGF2R, has been identified, but does not appear to be the mediator of IGF2's growth promoting action. IGF2R is located on 6q26 and encodes a receptor unrelated to the IGF1 or insulin receptor ( Figure 23 ). IGF2R is also the mannose-6-phosphate receptor and serves as a negative modulator of growth (for all IGF's and insulin). Its main role in vivo is probably as a tumor suppressor gene. While IGF2 is maternally imprinted, mouse Igf2R is paternally imprinted. There is some evidence that (in a temporally limited fashion) IGF2R is also paternally imprinted in humans. Somatic mutations have been found in hepatocellular carcinoma tissue (heterozygous mutations associated with loss of the other allele), but no germ-line mutations have been identified in individuals with growth abnormalities. Figure 23. The Insulin-Like Growth Factor 2 Receptor (IGF2R) gene. Insulin In addition to its glycemic and metabolic roles, insulin functions as a significant growth promoting/anabolic agent. The insulin gene ( INS ) is located on Chr 11p15.5 and comprises 3 exons ( Figure 24 ). Insulin's role in fetal growth is quite significant, as demonstrated by hyper insulinemic babies ( e.g. infants of diabetic mothers (IDM)). Insulin's growth promoting activity is mediated through
