Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


24 ). Insulin's role in fetal growth is quite significant, as demonstrated by hyper insulinemic babies ( e.g. infants of diabetic mothers (IDM)). Insulin's growth promoting activity is mediated through a combination of insulin and the IGF1 receptors. Mutations in the INS gene have been described in subjects with hyperinsulinemia (and/or hyperproinsulinemia) and diabetes mellitus. Figure 24. The insulin gene (INS). Insulin Receptor The insulin receptor is structurally related to the IGF1 receptor. The gene, INSR , is located on Chr 19p13.2 and contains 22 exons that span over 120 kilobases of genomic DNA ( Figure 25 ). INSR encodes a transmembrane protein with tyrosine kinase activity which can transduce the signals of insulin, IGF1 and IGF2. Individuals with a mutation in the insulin receptor have been identified and may be the basis for the mythological 'Leprechauns'. They typically have intrauterine growth retardation; small elfin facies with protuberant ears; distended abdomen; relatively large hands, feet, and genitalia; and abnormal skin with hypertrichosis, acanthosis nigricans, and decreased subcutaneous fat. At autopsy, several subjects have been found to have cystic changes in the membranes of gonads and hyperplasia of pancreatic islet cells. Severe mutations generally lead to death within months, but more mild mutations have been found in individuals with insulin resistance, hypoglycemia, acanthosis nigricans, normal subcutaneous tissue and may even be associated with a normal growth pattern! Individuals with even 'mild mutations' have been shown to have a thickened myocardium, enlarged kidneys and ovarian enlargement. Figure 25. The insulin receptor gene (INSR). SHORT STATURE WITH AN ADVANCED BONE AGE Aggrecan Aggrecan has also been shown to be involved in human height and the growth process. The aggrecan protein is a major constituent of the extracellular matrix of articular cartilage, where it forms large multimeric aggregates. The gene, ACAN , is located on Chr 15q26.1, comprising 19 exons spread over nearly 72 kilobases of genomic DNA. Exon 1 is approximately 13 kilobases upstream of exons 2-19, which comprise the coding portion of ACAN ( 158 ). ACAN undergoes alternative splicing yielding several isoforms; the predominant isoform being 2132 amino acids long, with three globular domains (G1-3), an ‘interglobular’ (IG) domain, a keratan sulfate (KS) domain and a chondroitin sulfate (CS) domain, largely encoded in a modular fashion ( Figure 26 ). Domains G1 and G2 contain tandem repeat units rich in cysteine, which are necessary for disulfide bridging, the binding of hyaluronic
