Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


encoded in a modular fashion ( Figure 26 ). Domains G1 and G2 contain tandem repeat units rich in cysteine, which are necessary for disulfide bridging, the binding of hyaluronic acid and structural integrity, and are separated by the IGD, which provides a level of rigidity. The KS domain contains 11 copies of a six amino acid motif, while the chondroitin sulfate (CS) domain contains over 100 (non-tandem repeated) copies of the dipeptide Serine-Glycine). The G3 domain appears to function in maintaining proper protein folding and subsequent aggrecan secretion. The attachment of hyaluronic acid, keratan and chondroitin sulfate lead to significant water retention, which is largely responsible for the shock-absorbing character of articular cartilage. Aggrecan is also necessary for proper “chondroskeletal morphogenesis” ( 159 ), ensuring the proper organization and sequential maturation of the epiphysis. In 1999, Kawaguchi reported a mutation in ACAN in subjects with lumbar disc herniation ( 160 ), then in 2005, both an autosomal dominant form of spondyloephiphyseal dysplasia (SED-Kimberly type) ( 161 ) and an autosomal recessive form (SED-Aggrecan type) ( 162 ) were shown to arise from mutations in ACAN . In 2010, cases of autosomal dominant short stature with an advanced bone age were found to have mutations in ACAN , either with or without osteochondritis dissecans and/or (early-onset) osteoarthritis ( 163 – 167 ). Dateki identified a family of four affected where three members had short stature with an advanced bone age, midface hypoplasia, joint problems and brachydactyly, while the fourth had lumbar disc herniation without other findings ( 168 ), attesting to phenotypic heterogeneity, even within a family. Figure 26. The aggrecan gene (ACAN). The Short Stature Homeobox-Containing Gene ( SHOX ) Haploinsufficiency The Short Stature Homeobox-containing gene ( SHOX ) was identified in the pseudo-autosomal region 1 on the distal end of the X and Y chromosomes at Xp22.3 and Yp11.3 ( Figure 27 ) ( 169 ). Mutations in SHOX were observed in 60-100% of Léri-Weill dyschondrosteosis and Langer mesomelic dysplasia ( 170 , 171 ). Turner syndrome is almost always associated with the loss of SHOX gene because of numerical or structural aberration of X chromosome ( 172 ).The most common genetic defects leading to growth failure in humans are due to S HOX mutations with the incidence of 1:1,000 ( 173 ). Figure 27. The Short Stature Homeobox-containing gene (SHOX). Reprinted with Permission. www.shox.uni.hd.de. Genes in pseudoautosomal
