Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


humans are due to S HOX mutations with the incidence of 1:1,000 ( 173 ). Figure 27. The Short Stature Homeobox-containing gene (SHOX). Reprinted with Permission. www.shox.uni.hd.de. Genes in pseudoautosomal region 1 do not undergo X inactivation, therefore, healthy individuals express two copies of the SHOX gene, one from each of the sex chromosomes in both 46,XX and 46,XY individuals. The SHOX gene plays an important role in linear growth and is involved in the following: 1. Intrauterine linear skeletal growth 2. Fetal and childhood growth plate in a developmentally specific pattern and responsible for chondrocyte differentiation and proliferation ( 174 ). 3. A dose effect: SHOX haploinsufficiency is associated with short stature. In contrast, SHOX overdose as seen in sex chromosome polyploidy is associated with tall stature. A large number of unique mutations (mostly deletions and point mutations) of SHOX have been described ( 170 , 172 , 175 ). SHOX abnormalities are associated with a broad phenotypic spectrum, ranging from short stature without dysmorphic signs as seen in idiopathic short stature (ISS) to profound Langer’s mesomelic skeletal dysplasia, a form of short stature characterized by disproportionate shortening of the middle segments of the upper arms (ulna) and lower legs (fibula) ( 176 ). In contrast to many other growth disorders such as growth hormone deficiency, SHOX deficiency is more common in girls. Rappold et al developed a scoring system to determine the phenotypic spectrum of SHOX deficiency in children with short stature and identify patients for SHOX molecular testing ( 175 ). The authors recommend a careful examination including measurement of body proportions and X-ray of the lower legs and forearm before making the diagnosis of ISS. The scoring system consists of three anthropometric variables (arm span/height ratio, sitting height/height ratio and BMI), and five clinical variables (cubitus valgus, short forearm, bowing of forearm, muscular hypertrophy and dislocation of the ulna at the elbow). Based on the scoring system, authors recommend testing for SHOX deficiency for the individuals with a score greater than four or seven out of a total score of 24 ( Table 7 ). The recent data show that GH treatment is effective in improving linear growth of patients with SHOX mutations ( 176 ). Table 7. Scoring system for identifying patients that qualify for short-stature homeobox containing gene ( SHOX ) testing based on clinical criteria. Reprinted with permission ( 176 ). View in
