Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


Table 7. Scoring system for identifying patients that qualify for short-stature homeobox containing gene ( SHOX ) testing based on clinical criteria. Reprinted with permission ( 176 ). View in own window Score item Criterion Score points Arm span/height ratio <96 ​.5% 2 Sitting height/height ratio >55 ​.5% 2 Body–mass index >50 th percentile 4 Cubitus valgus Yes 2 Short forearm Yes 3 Bowing of forearm Yes 3 Appearance of muscular hypertrophy Yes 3 Dislocation of ulna (at elbow) Yes 5 Total 24 Noonan Syndrome Noonan syndrome (NS) is a relatively common genetic disorder with the incidence of between 1:1000 and 1:4000 ( 177 ). NS is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner, and sporadic cases are not uncommon (50-60%) ( 178 ). NS is characterized by short stature, cardiac defects (most commonly pulmonary stenosis and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy), facial dysmorphism (down-slanting, antimongoloid palpebral fissures, ptosis, and low-set posteriorly rotated ears), webbed neck, mild mental retardation, cryptorchidism, feeding difficulties in infancy. The phenotype is variable between affected members of the same family and becomes milder with age ( 179 ). Nearly 50% of patients with NS have gain-of-function mutations in protein tyrosine phosphatase nonreceptor type 11 ( PTPN11 ), the gene encoding the cytoplasmic tyrosine phosphatase SHP-2, which regulates GH signaling by dephosphorylating STAT5b, resulting in down-regulation of GH activity ( 180 ). Mutations in four other genes ( KRAS , SOS1 , NF1 and RAF1 ) involved in RAS/MAPK signaling systems have been identified in patients with the NS phenotype and related disorders including LEOPORD, Costello, and cardio-facial-cutaneous syndromes ( Figure 28 ) ( 181 ). Figure 28. The RAS/MAPK signaling pathway. Reprinted with permission ( 181 ). Although identifying these mutations has contributed to better understanding of the pathogenesis of NS, it appears that the genotype does not completely correlate with the phenotype, e.g. short stature in patients with NS. Several studies have shown that the subjects carrying gain of function mutations of PTPN11 had lower IGF1 levels, poor growth response, and resistance to GH therapy compared to subjects without PTPN11 mutations ( 182 , 183 ). However, data from one large study of individuals with NS did not demonstrate the same correlation between PTPN11 mutations and short stature ( 177 ). However, more recent studies showed significant improvement in final adult height in individuals with NS regardless of their mutation type ( 184 , 185 ). DIAGNOSIS Diagnosis
