Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


( 177 ). However, more recent studies showed significant improvement in final adult height in individuals with NS regardless of their mutation type ( 184 , 185 ). DIAGNOSIS Diagnosis of GH deficiency during childhood and adolescence is frequently challenging. Children whose height are below the 3 rd percentile or -2 SD and have decreased growth velocity require clinical evaluation. Evaluation should begin with a detailed past medical history, family history, diet history, detailed review of prior growth data (including the initial post-natal period) and a thorough physical examination ( 186 ). Together, these should help the clinician identify the pattern and cause of growth failure, such as fetal growth restriction ( e.g. SGA and IUGR), chronic illness, malnutrition/malabsorption, hypothyroidism, skeletal abnormalities or other identifiable syndromes, such as Turner syndrome. Once growth hormone deficiency is suspected, further testing of the hypothalamic-pituitary axes (including but not limited to the GH-IGF axis) along with radiological evaluation, should be performed ( Table 8 ). It is important to note that the tests cannot be performed simultaneously, or in random order. Certain conditions ( e.g. Hypothyroidism and Celiac disease) may mask the presence of others ( e.g. GH deficiency), therefore requiring a stepwise approach with screening tests preceding specific examinations. Since growth failure generally occurs outside of GHD, only those children with signs or symptoms undergo expensive, invasive and non-physiologic GH provocative testing. Table 8. Guidelines for Initial Clinical Evaluation of a Child with Growth Failure View in own window Evaluation Key elements Birth history Gestational age, birth weight and length, head circumference, delivery type, birth trauma, hypoglycemia, prolonged jaundice. Past medical and surgical history Head trauma, surgery, cranial radiation, CNS infection. Review of systems Appetite, eating habits, bowel movements, headache, vision change. Chronic illness Anemia, Inflammatory Bowel Disease, cardiovascular disease, renal insufficiency, etc. Family history Consanguinity, parents and siblings’ heights, family history of short stature, delayed puberty. Physical examination Body proportions (upper/lower segment ratios, arm span), head circumference, microphallus, dysmorphism, and midline craniofacial abnormalities. Growth pattern Crossing of percentiles, failure to catch-up. Screening Tests CBC, CMP, ESR/c-reactive protein, Celiac screening, TSH and Free T4, UA, IGF1, IGFBP3, Bone age (and a Karyotype for females) Growth Charts The growth pattern is a key element of growth assessment and is best studied by plotting growth data on an appropriate growth chart. US growth charts were developed from cross-sectional data provided by the National Center for
