Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


of growth assessment and is best studied by plotting growth data on an appropriate growth chart. US growth charts were developed from cross-sectional data provided by the National Center for Health Statistics and updated in 2000 ( 187 ), with body mass index included in this newest set. The supine length should be plotted for children from birth through age 3 years and standing height plotted when the child is old enough to stand, generally after 2 years of age. Ideally, growth data is determined by evaluating subjects at regular (optimally at 3 month) intervals, with the same stadiometer, and with the same individual obtaining the measurements, whenever possible. Three months is the minimal time interval needed between measurements to calculate a reliable growth velocity, and a six-to-twelve-month interval is optimal. Age and pubertal staging must be considered when evaluating the growth velocity, with the understanding that there is great individual variation in the onset and rate of puberty ( 188 ). Deviations across height percentiles should be noted and evaluated further when confirmed, with the understanding that during the first two years of life, the crossing of length and/or weight percentiles may reflect catch-up or catch-down growth. Crossing percentiles during this period is not always physiological, and must be examined in the context of family, prenatal, birth and medical histories. Additionally, between two and three years of age, statural growth measurement changes from supine to erect, and may also introduce variation. Growth below the normal range ( e.g. >-2SD) even without further deviation is consistent with (but not pathognomonic of) GH deficiency. Short stature with a low BMI suggests an abnormality of nutrition/GI tract ( e.g. malnutrition, Celiac Disease, etc.), while short stature with an elevated BMI suggests hypothyroidism, Cushing’s syndrome or a central eating disorder, such as Prader-Willi syndrome, etc. Figures 29 - 31 represent growth charts of children studied by the authors who have genetic defects leading to isolated growth hormone deficiency. Figure 29. Growth pattern in children with isolated GH deficiency (Type 1A). Growth failure can manifest as severe growth delay ( Figure 29 ), gradual deceleration (“falling off the curve”) ( Figure 30 ), or alternatively, maintaining a growth pattern parallel to the 3 rd percentile, but without catch-up growth ( Figure 31 ). Figure 30. Growth pattern in children with isolated GH deficiency (Type 1B). Figure 31. Growth pattern in children with isolated GH
