Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


percentile, but without catch-up growth ( Figure 31 ). Figure 30. Growth pattern in children with isolated GH deficiency (Type 1B). Figure 31. Growth pattern in children with isolated GH deficiency (Type 2). Most children with GH deficiency have normal birth weight and length. However, in most cases, postnatal growth becomes severely compromised. This can be seen even in the first months of life. Although such children may show a normal growth pattern during the first 6 months, growth failure will eventually occur as GH takes on a more physiologically dominant role, and a child’s growth falls below the normal range. Radiological Evaluation The most commonly used system to assess skeletal maturity is to determine the ‘bone age’ of the left hand and wrist, using the method of Greulich and Pyle ( 189 ). Children younger than 2 years of age should have their bone age estimated from x-rays of the knee. Tanner and Whitehouse and their colleagues developed a scoring system for each of the hand bones as an alternative method to the method of Greulich and Pyle ( 190 ). Adult height prediction methods estimate adult height by evaluating height at presentation relative to normative values for chronological or bone age. Such methods have been utilized for approximately 60 years ( 191 ) and are generally considered accurate in evaluating healthy children with a ‘normal’ growth potential ( 192 , 193 ). Several different methods have been produced and are currently in widespread use, including those of Bayley-Pinneau, the Tanner-Whitehouse-Marshall-Carter and Roche-Wainer-Thissen. In 1946, Bayley initially described how final height could be estimated from the present height and the bone age, revising the method in 1952 to use the bone age assessment method of Greulich and Pyle ( 189 ). They developed what is commonly known as the predicted adult height (PAH) method of Bayley-Pinneau (BP). Tables have been developed for the BP method, listing the proportion of adult height attained at different bone ages, using longitudinal growth data on 192 healthy white children predominantly from North European ancestry in the US. Three tables – average, advanced and retarded – correct for possible differences between CA and BA of more than one year ( 194 ). The Bayley-Pinneau PAH method is applicable from age 8 years onwards. Tanner, Whitehouse, Marshall and Carter developed an adult height prediction model based on current height, the mid-parental height, the age of
