Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


PAH method is applicable from age 8 years onwards. Tanner, Whitehouse, Marshall and Carter developed an adult height prediction model based on current height, the mid-parental height, the age of menarche in girls and the ‘Tanner’ bone age ( 190 ). This PAH method (TW2) was developed on the longitudinal data of 211 healthy, British children. TW2 differs from the BP method in that the TW2 lowers the minimal age of prediction to 4 years, and allows for a quantitative effect of BA, while BP gives a semi-quantitative effect of bone age ( i.e. delayed, normal or advanced). The PAH method of Roche-Wainer-Thissen (RWT) was derived from longitudinal data on approximately 200 “normal” Caucasian American children in southwestern Ohio, at the Fels Research Institute ( 195 ). The RWT PAH method assesses the subject’s height, weight, BA and mid-parental height (MPH) and then applies regression techniques to determine the mathematical weighting to be applied to the four variables. The RWT method was designed to allow final height prediction from a single visit but is only applicable when greater than half of the bones are not fully mature. Since both the bone age assessments and height prediction methods are created from healthy children (and often children from a single ethnic group and region), their use in ‘other’ populations is potentially inappropriate. In fact, Tanner et al state that their method is applicable to both boys and girls with short stature, but caution that “In clearly pathological children, such as those with endocrinopathies, they do not apply”. Similarly, Roche et al suggest caution when applying the RWT PAH method in ‘non-white and pathological populations’ ( 195 ). Zachmann et al reported that the RWT and TW2 methods (which are more BA-reliant) are better when growth potential is normal relative to the BA, however, in conditions with “…abnormal and incorrigible growth patterns…”, the BP method was more accurate, stating that with a “non-normal bone maturation to growth potential relationship, the ‘coefficient and regression equations’ (RWT and Tanner) cause an over-prediction of adult height” ( 196 ). As stated above, these methods are based on healthy children and assume that the growth potential is directly proportional to the amount of time left prior to epiphyseal fusion as measured by the bone age. While this is correct for some of the children seen by the pediatric endocrinologist ( e.g. healthy children, children with GH deficiency),
