Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


epiphyseal fusion as measured by the bone age. While this is correct for some of the children seen by the pediatric endocrinologist ( e.g. healthy children, children with GH deficiency), it is not correct for many others with abnormal growth ( e.g. children born SGA, children with idiopathic short stature, Turner syndrome and chronic renal failure). It is likely also inappropriate for children with an abnormal tempo of maturation ( e.g. children with Russell-Silver syndrome, precocious puberty and congenital adrenal hyperplasia). In such children, standard growth prediction methods should be used only as ‘general guides’, if at all. Table 9 summarizes these 4 methods. Table 9. Summary of Methods Used for PAH View in own window Methods Parameters Bayley-Pinneau (BP) Height, BA, CA Tanner-Whitehouse- Marshall and Carter (TW2) Height, BA, CA, MPH, the age of menarche in girls Roche-Wainer-Thissen (RWT) Height, weight, BA, MPH Khamis-Roche Height, weight, MPH Biochemical Evaluation of GH Deficiency As growth hormone is secreted in a pulsatile manner (usually 6 pulses in 24 hours and mainly during the night) with little serum GH at any given time, several methods have been developed to assess the adequacy of GH secretion: 1. Stimulation testing: GH provocation utilizing arginine, clonidine, glucagon, L-Dopa, insulin, etc. This practice generally measures pituitary reserve-or GH secretory ability-rather than endogenous secretory status. It is labor intensive and trained individuals should perform the GH stimulation test according to a standardized protocol, with special care taken with younger children/infants ( 186 ). 2. GH-dependent biochemical markers: IGF1 and IGFBP3: Values below a cut-off less than -2 SD for IGF1 and/or IGFBP3 strongly suggest an abnormality in the GH axis if other causes of low IGF have been excluded. Age and gender appropriate reference ranges for IGF1 and IGFBP3 are mandatory. 3. 24-hour or Overnight GH sampling: Blood sampling at frequent intervals designed to quantify physiologic bursts of GH secretion. 4. IGF generation test: This test is used to assess GH action and for the confirmation of suspected GH insensitivity. GH is given for several days (3-5 days) with serum IGF1 and IGFBP3 levels measured at the start and end of the test. A sufficient rise in IGF1 and IGFBP3 levels would exclude severe forms of GH insensitivity ( 103 , 188 ). Failure to raise the serum GH level to the threshold level in response to provocation suggests the diagnosis of GH deficiency, while a low
