Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


insensitivity ( 103 , 188 ). Failure to raise the serum GH level to the threshold level in response to provocation suggests the diagnosis of GH deficiency, while a low IGF1 and/or IGFBP3 level is supportive evidence. Although pharmacological GH stimulation tests have known deficiencies such as poor reproducibility, arbitrary cut-off limits, varying GH assays, side effects, and labor intensivity requiring trained staff, they remain the most easily available and accepted tools to evaluate pituitary GH secretory capacity. GH stimulation test results should be interpreted carefully in conjunction with pubertal status and body weight. Puberty and administration of sex steroids increase GH response to stimulation tests ( 197 ). To prevent false positive results, some centers use sex steroid priming in prepubertal children prior to GH stimulation testing ( 198 ). In obese children, the normal regulation of the GH/IGF1 axis is disturbed and GH secretion is decreased. IGF1 levels are very sensitive to nutritional status, while IGFBP3 are less so. Additionally, the normative range for IGF1 and IGFBP3 values are extremely wide, often with poor discrimination between normal and pathological. Age/pubertal stage and gender-specific threshold values must be utilized for both IGF1 and IGFBP3. Due to the above limitations of current agents, the quest for new, more reliable agents that with fewer side effects and are less labor intensive has been ongoing. One of them is macimorelin acetate, a potent, orally administered growth hormone (GH) secretagogue approved by the FDA and European Medical Agency (EMA) for diagnosing adult growth hormone deficiency ( 199 , 200 ). It functions by increasing GH levels acutely via the ghrelin receptor GHSR1-a ( 199 ). Csákváry et al investigated the use of macimorelin as a diagnostic test in children with suspected GH deficiency, finding it to be safe and well-tolerated across different dosing cohorts ( 200 ) . However, more research is needed to fully understand its efficacy in diagnosing pediatric GH deficiency and its potential therapeutic applications. Growth hormone–releasing peptide-2 (GHRP2) is a potent stimulator of growth hormone secretion ( 201 ) and has been investigated its effectiveness diagnosing GH deficiency in children and adolescents ( 202 ). It is widely used in Japan for diagnosis of adult GH deficiency ( 203 ). GHRP2 also stimulates corticotropes along with somatotropes and maybe useful diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency which is concomitant with GHD in many hypothalamic-pituitary disorders ( 204 ). Summary of Diagnosis
