Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


). GHRP2 also stimulates corticotropes along with somatotropes and maybe useful diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency which is concomitant with GHD in many hypothalamic-pituitary disorders ( 204 ). Summary of Diagnosis of GH Deficiency Children with severe GH deficiency can usually be diagnosed easily on clinical grounds and failed GH stimulation tests. Studies have shown that despite clinical evidence of GH deficiency, some children may pass GH stimulation tests ( 188 ). In the case of unexplained short stature, if the child meets most of the following criteria, a trial of GH treatment should be initiated ( 8 ): 1. Height >2.25 SD below the mean for age or >2 SD below the mid-parental height percentile, 2. Growth velocity <25th percentile for bone age, 3. Bone age >2 SD below the mean for age, 4. Height prediction is significantly below the mid-parental height, 5. Low serum insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) and/or insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP3) for bone age and gender 6. Other clinical features suggestive of GH deficiency. Key elements that may indicate GH deficiency are: 1. Height more than 2 SD below the mean. 2. Neonatal hypoglycemia, microphallus, prolonged jaundice, or traumatic delivery. 3. Although not required, a peak GH concentration after provocative GH testing of less than 10 ng/ml. 4. Consanguinity and/or a family member with GH deficiency. 5. Midline CNS defects, pituitary hypo- or aplasia, pituitary stalk agenesis, empty sella, ectopic posterior pituitary (bright spot’) on MRI. 6. Deficiency of other pituitary hormones: TSH, PRL, LH/FSH and/or ACTH deficiency. Many practitioners consider GH stimulation tests to be optional in the case of clinical evidence of GH deficiency, in patients with a history of surgery or irradiation of the hypothalamus/pituitary region and growth failure accompanied by additional pituitary hormone deficiencies. Similarly, children born SGA, with Turner syndrome, PWS and chronic renal insufficiency do not require GH stimulation testing before initiating GH treatment ( 8 ). TREATMENT The principal objective of GH treatment in children with GH deficiency is to improve final adult height. Human pituitary-derived GH was first used in children with hypopituitarism over 60 years ago, and abruptly ceased in 1985, after the first cases of Creutzfeld-Jacob disease were recognized. Since 1986, recombinant human GH (rhGH) has been the exclusive form of growth hormone used to treat GH deficiency in the United States and most of the world. Short stature without overt growth hormone
