Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


GH (rhGH) has been the exclusive form of growth hormone used to treat GH deficiency in the United States and most of the world. Short stature without overt growth hormone deficiency is very well described, and occurs in Turner Syndrome, renal failure, malnutrition, cardiovascular disease, Prader-Willi syndrome, small for gestational age, inflammatory bowel disease, and osteodystrophies- clearly representing the majority of short/poorly growing children in the world. Although not the focus of this discussion, it is important to realize that - in clinical terms - GH therapy is used to treat growth failure, rather than a biochemical GH deficiency. GH therapy in this setting, in combination with disease-specific treatments, generally improves statural growth and final adult height. The primary goals of the treatment of a child with GH deficiency are to achieve normal height during childhood and to attain normal adult height. Children should be treated with an adequate dose of rhGH, with the dose tailored to that child’s specific condition. FDA guidelines for daily rhGH dose vary according to the indication and are given in Table 10 ( 8 ). Administration of daily rhGH in the evening is designed to mimic physiologic hGH secretion. Treatment is continued until adult height or epiphyseal closure (or both) has been recorded. GH therapy, however, should be continued throughout adulthood in the case of GHD, to optimize the metabolic effects of GH and to achieve normal peak bone mass-albeit at significantly lower “adult” doses. Adult GH replacement should only be started after retesting the individual and again demonstrating a failure to reach the new age-appropriate GH threshold, if appropriate. Table 10. GH Dosage for Daily rhGH View in own window Indication Dose (mg/kg/wk) GH Deficiency Children Pre-pubertal Pubertal Adults 0.16 – 0.35 0.16 – 0.70 0.04 – 0.175 Turner Syndrome 0.375 Chronic renal insufficiency 0.35 Prader-Willi Syndrome 0.24 SGA 0.48 Idiopathic short stature (ISS) 0.3 – 0.37 SHOX Deficiency 0.35 Noonan Syndrome 0.23 – 0.46 The growth response to daily GH treatment is typically maximal in the first year of treatment and then gradually decreases over the subsequent years of treatment. First year growth response to rhGH is generally 200% of the pre-treatment velocity, and after several years, averages 150% of the baseline. Height improvements of 1 SD are typically achieved in children with GHD after two years of treatment, and between 2 and 2.5 SD after five or seven years. GH doses
