Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


Height improvements of 1 SD are typically achieved in children with GHD after two years of treatment, and between 2 and 2.5 SD after five or seven years. GH doses are often increased if catch-up growth is inadequate and/or to compensate for the waning effect of rhGH with time. Cohen et al reported a significant improvement in HV when GH dose was adjusted based on IGF1 levels ( 205 ). However, GH dose was almost 3 times higher than mean conventional GH dose when IGF1 levels were titrated to the upper limit of normal. The lack of long-term safety data on high doses of GH and high circulating levels of IGF1 levels should be considered. Therefore, weight-based GH dosing is still recommended by many as the standard of care ( 206 ). It is critically important to maximize height with GH therapy before the onset of puberty. Several investigators have advocated modifying puberty or the production of estrogens by the use of GnRH analogues ( 207 – 209 ) and aromatase inhibitors ( 210 – 213 ), respectively, in order to expand the therapeutic window for GH treatment, especially in older males. The response to daily rhGH, however, may vary in children ( 214 ). Factors may affect the response to GH therapy including The etiology of short stature Age at the start of treatment Height deficit at the start of treatment GH dose and frequency Duration of treatment Genetic factors Several studies have reported the association between response to GH therapy and a GHR gene polymorphism, the deletion of exon 3 ( GHRd3 ). Although some reports showed better response to GH therapy in GHRd3 carriers with different clinical conditions including GHD, Turner syndrome, SGA, and ISS ( 93 – 95 , 215 , 216 ), many others failed to confirm positive effects of GHRd3 on response to GH treatment ( 96 , 217 , 218 ). Long-Acting GH Formulations Daily GH injections can be inconvenient and lead to poor adherence over time in children, with a negative impact on their final adult height. To overcome these barriers, long-acting growth hormone (LAGH) formulations have been developed using various technologies including depot formulations, Pegylated formulations, pro-drug formulations, non-covalent albumin binding GH, and GH fusion proteins ( 219 ). It was noted that LAGH does not suppress endogenous GH secretion and can be used for treating non-GH deficient short stature, e.g.,
