Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


GH, and GH fusion proteins ( 219 ). It was noted that LAGH does not suppress endogenous GH secretion and can be used for treating non-GH deficient short stature, e.g., idiopathic short stature, with similar efficacy and safety compared to daily GH ( 220 ) . In addition, the timing of LAGH administration does not appear to be a crucial factor in treatment efficacy, as no differences in growth rate or IGF1 concentrations were observed between morning and evening treatment schedules ( 221 ) , this further improves compliance and ultimately adult height. In contrast, the typical bedtime administration of daily GH formulations may cause conflict during vacation, trip, or physical and social activities. Currently, several long-acting growth hormones are available worldwide, utilizing pegylation, prodrug formulations, noncovalent transient albumin binding, and GH fusion proteins and only last three of them are FDA approved in the United States ( 222 , 223 ) . The goal of these new formulations is to improve patient compliance while maintaining the efficacy and safety of traditional daily GH therapy. PRO-DRUG FORMULATIONS Long-acting prodrug growth hormone formulations, such as lonapegsomatropin (Skytrofa®), are designed to release unmodified growth hormone over an extended period, typically one week, while maintaining similar efficacy and safety profiles as daily injections ( 224 , 225 ). It received FDA approval in August 2021 for treating pediatric patients at least 1 year old with GH deficiency ( 226 , 227 ). Lonapegsomatropin, also known as TransCon GH, consists of unmodified rhGH transiently attached to an inert carrier molecule, methoxypolyethylene glycol (mPEG), via a transient, low-molecular weight TransCon Linker ( 227 ) . While the carrier molecule, mPEG, is responsible for decreasing GH receptor binding and renal excretion until its release, the linker determines when to release unmodified rhGH from its carrier prodrug, acts as a timer to allow controlled release of GH at body temperature and pH over one week ( 224 , 225 , 227 ). Lonapegsomatropin is administered subcutaneously as daily GH. Because it releases unmodified rhGH over one week under physiologic conditions, it has the same actions as endogenous GH. . In a phase 2 trial comparing TransCon GH to daily growth hormone in children with GHD, the mean annualized height velocity for TransCon GH was 12.9 cm/y compared to 11.6 cm/y for daily growth hormone at an equivalent dose ( 228 ). The subsequent phase 3 heiGHt Trial
