Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


annualized height velocity for TransCon GH was 12.9 cm/y compared to 11.6 cm/y for daily growth hormone at an equivalent dose ( 228 ). The subsequent phase 3 heiGHt Trial investigated the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of weekly lonapegsomatropin versus daily GH over 52 weeks in treatment-naive prepubertal children with GHD ( 225 , 229 , 230 ) . This trial enrolled 161 treatment-naïve, prepubertal children with GHD. Subjects were randomized 2:1 to receive lonapegsomatropin 0.24 mg/kg/week or daily somatropin (0.34 mg/kg/week). At 52 weeks, annualized height velocity was again better in lonapegsomatropin group (11.2 cm/year) compared to daily GH group 10.3 cm/year ( p =0.009). This study confirmed noninferiority and further showed statistical superiority of lonapegsomatropin in annualized height velocity compared to daily GH, with similar safety, in treatment-naïve children with GHD ( 230 ). Lonapegsomatropin injections were well tolerated and were not associated with increased adverse effects compared to daily GH. None of study subjects had pseudotumor cerebri, slipped capital femoral epiphysis or hyperglycemia; in contrast, these complications have been previously reported in daily GH therapy ( 231 ). However, transient hyperglycemia was recently reported in a child with obesity who was on Lonepegsomatropin suggesting the need for careful glucose monitoring while receiving lonepegsomatropin ( 232 ) . In the lonapegsomatropin group, although study subjects had higher IGF1 SD and reached target IGF1 SD earlier compared to daily GH-treated group, IGF1/IGFBP3 ratios were similar between the lonapegsomatropin- and daily GH-treated groups. There were two children that required dose reduction due to IGF1 SD >2. In both groups, there were no neutralizing antibodies and low-affinity antibodies were observed. While the phase 3 heiGHt Trial in children established non-inferiority and statistical superiority of height velocity compared to daily growth hormone therapy, with no concerning side effects ( 230 ) , the fliGHt Trial showed that switching from daily somatropin to lonapegsomatropin resulted in a similar adverse event profile and maintained growth outcomes ( 233 ) . Long-term data from the enliGHten trial showed continued improvement in height standard deviation scores through the third year of therapy ( 234 ). NONVALENT TRANSIENT ALBUMIN BINDING FORMULATIONS Somapacitan (Sogroya®) was developed using a well-established protraction method which previously has been used to extend half-lives of insulin detemir and glucagon like peptide 1 agonists (liraglutide and semaglutide). It is a novel albumin-binding GH derivative, with a small albumin-binding property attached to the GH molecule
