Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


half-lives of insulin detemir and glucagon like peptide 1 agonists (liraglutide and semaglutide). It is a novel albumin-binding GH derivative, with a small albumin-binding property attached to the GH molecule ( 235 ). Somapacitan consists of a human GH molecule and a single amino acid substitution at position 101 (leucine to cysteine) where a side chain has been attached ( 235 ) . Amino acid substitution, Leu101Cys does not affect the binding to the GH receptor and the side chain consists of a hydrophilic spacer and an albumin-binding moiety ( 236 ) . The reversible binding to endogenous albumin delays the elimination of somapacitan, extends its half-life and, therefore, duration of action, allowing once-weekly administration ( 237 ) . Somapacitan was first approved for adult growth hormone deficiency in August 2020, and later for pediatric growth hormone deficiency in April 2023 by the US Food and Drug Administration. Clinical trials have demonstrated somapacitan’s efficacy and safety compared to daily GH injections ( 238 , 239 ) . In children with GHD, somapacitan showed similar height velocity and IGF1 increases as daily GH, with similar safety profiles including neutralizing antibodies, bone maturation, and metabolic profile over 1 year-2 years-and 4 years of treatment ( 238 , 240 , 241 ) . In addition, authors assessed disease burden and treatment burden on both patients and parents/guardians, at years 2, 3, 4 which showed both groups strongly preferred weekly somapacitan over daily GH injections ( 241 ) . For adults with GHD, somapacitan improved body composition and IGF1 levels while being well-tolerated ( 242 ) . Interestingly, somapacitan may have some advantages over daily GH. It showed neutral effects on glucose metabolism in adults with GHD, with no new cases of diabetes reported in long-term studies ( 243 ) . In some patients switching from daily GH, somapacitan led to improvements in lipid metabolism and glucose tolerance, suggesting a potentially higher GH replacement effect ( 244 ) . However, weekly injections may be easier to forget than daily ones for some patients ( 244 ) . GH FUSION PROTEIN FORMULATIONS Somatrogon (NGENLA®) consists of rhGH combined with three copies of the carboxy terminal peptide (CTP) from human chorionic gonadotropin resulting in a fusion protein of approximately 41 kDa ( 245 ) . The addition of the CTP moieties extends the half-life of the attached rhGH, allowing for once-weekly subcutaneous administration ( 246 ).
