Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


protein of approximately 41 kDa ( 245 ) . The addition of the CTP moieties extends the half-life of the attached rhGH, allowing for once-weekly subcutaneous administration ( 246 ). Somatrogon is the last LAGH that received FDA approval in June 2023 for the treatment of pediatric GH deficiency. Clinical trials have demonstrated the efficacy and safety of somatrogon. In a phase 3 randomized trial, once-weekly somatrogon was non-inferior to once-daily human GH in increasing height velocity in pediatric patients with GHD ( 247 ) . The mean height velocity at 12 months was 10.12 cm/yr for somatrogon compared to 9.78 cm/yr for daily GH ( 247 ) . Interestingly, a comparison with published literature and the KIGS database indicated that children treated with once-weekly somatrogon (0.66 mg/kg/week) showed good growth compared to children treated with once-daily human growth hormone ( 248 ) and sustained improvement in height SDS and delta height SDS up to 5 years of treatment ( 249 ) . Similar to other LAGH formulations, somatrogon is generally well-tolerated, with injection site pain being the most frequent treatment-emergent adverse event ( 246 ) . Furthermore, somatrogon had a lower treatment burden with favorable treatment experience than daily GH ( 233 ) . SUMMARY In summary, long-acting growth hormone formulations represent a significant advancement in the treatment of growth hormone deficiency. While long-acting growth hormone formulations offer a promising alternative to daily growth hormone injections as well as improving treatment adherence and quality of life due to less frequent injections, there are some concerns regarding their unphysiological profile. Ongoing research and long-term studies are necessary to fully understand their efficacy, safety, and optimal use in clinical practice ( 250 , 251 ) . Additionally, cost-effectiveness and the identification of patient groups that may benefit most from weekly injections are areas that require further investigation ( 250 , 252 ). Table 11 summarizes the approved dosage for long-acting growth hormone formulations. Table 11. GH dosage for long-acting growth hormone View in own window Medication Dose (mg/kg/wk) Somapacitan (Sogroya®) 0.16 Somatrogon (NGENLA®) 0.66 Lonapegsomatropin (Skytrofa®) 0.24 Monitoring GH Treatment Children receiving GH therapy require periodic monitoring. Three-month intervals are commonly chosen to allow for sufficient growth for a meaningful measurement, while minimizing time between dose adjustments/intervention. During follow up visits, height, weight, pubertal status, inspection of injection sites, and a comprehensive clinical exam should be initiated. In clinical practice, there
