Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


while minimizing time between dose adjustments/intervention. During follow up visits, height, weight, pubertal status, inspection of injection sites, and a comprehensive clinical exam should be initiated. In clinical practice, there are several parameters to monitor the response to GH treatment; the determination of the growth response ( i.e. change in height velocity, ∆HV) being the most important parameter. These points are summarized in Table 12 . Table 12. Summary of Follow-Up Evaluation. View in own window Parameters Assessment Bone age 12-month intervals to assess the predicted height. Thyroid Function Test 6-month intervals, or immediately, if growth velocity decreases. Serum IGF1 Most useful in maintaining GH dose in ‘safe’ region. It does not necessarily correlate with growth velocity. 12-month intervals for daily rhGH. However, timing to assess IGF-1 varies for each long-acting GH formulations. Monitoring of IGF-1 should be based on the mean IGF-1 over the week, which is on day 4 for somatrogon and somapacitan, and day 4.5 for lonapegsomatropin. Metabolic panel, HbA1C 12-month intervals. Dose adjustment Should be based on weight-change, growth response, pubertal stage, comparison to predicted height at each visit, and IGF1/IGFBP3 levels. Adverse Events Every visit. The Safety of GH Treatment To date, multiple studies have demonstrated the safety of GH therapy ( 6 , 63 , 186 , 187 , 253 – 256 ). While rhGH treatment is generally considered safe, patients, however, should be monitored closely during treatment. Some of the common side effects seen during GH therapy are scoliosis, slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE), pancreatitis, and pseudotumor cerebri (intracranial hypertension). An analysis of Genentech’s National Cooperative Growth Study (NCGS) identified eleven cases of adrenal insufficiency (AI) resulting in four deaths. All eleven cases of AI occurred in patients with organic GH deficiency (n=8,351), yielding an incidence of 132 per 100,000 in this subgroup, and an overall incidence of AI in NCGS was 20 per 100,000 ( 257 ). Another concern is the use of GH in patients with Prader-Willi syndrome. Early recognition of the syndrome allows earlier intervention to prevent morbidity. Previous studies and data from KIGS showed that earlier initiation of GH treatment in children with PWS significantly improved body composition, muscle tone, growth, and cognition ( 258 ). Fatalities have been reported in patients with Prader-Willi syndrome during or after rhGH therapy ( 259 ). Data for children aged 3 years and older showed no statistically significant differences between the GH-treated
