Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


reported in patients with Prader-Willi syndrome during or after rhGH therapy ( 259 ). Data for children aged 3 years and older showed no statistically significant differences between the GH-treated and untreated groups with respect to cause of death, including respiratory infection or insufficiency ( 259 , 260 ). Although there is no clear evidence that those deaths are related to GH therapy, it was postulated that GH/IGF1 may worsen sleep apnea or hypoventilation via increasing tonsillar/adenoid tissue or worsen pre-existing impaired respiration by increasing volume load ( 261 ). However, studies on respiratory function of subjects with Prader-Willi syndrome during rhGH therapy have only demonstrated improved respiratory drive and function ( 262 ). In fact, a recent study showed that all subjects tested had abnormal sleep studies/parameters prior to initiating GH treatment, and that GH treatment resulted in an improvement in sleep apnea in the majority of patients with PWS. Importantly, however, a subset had worsening of sleep disturbance shortly after (6 wk) starting GH when also developing a respiratory infection ( 263 ). Because it is difficult to predict who will worsen with GH treatment, these authors recommend that patients with Prader-Willi syndrome have polysomnography before and 6 wk after starting rhGH and should be monitored for sleep apnea during upper respiratory tract infections. IGF1 levels should also be monitored. The data on the efficacy and safety of GH treatment in 5220 Turner Syndrome (TS) children during the last 20 years has been reported by NCGS. The incidence of various side effects known to be associated with GH including pseudotumor cerebri, slipped capital femoral epiphysis, and scoliosis was increased in TS patients treated with GH compared with non-TS patients, however, children with TS are known to have a higher incidence of these side effects independent of rhGH treatment ( 264 ). Interestingly, type 1 diabetes was increased in GH treated group, most likely unrelated to GH treatment since the predisposition to autoimmune disorders is one of the characteristics of TS. In addition, NCGS data demonstrate a slightly increased incidence of a variety of malignancies in TS, however, this may again be related to the underlying condition, ( i.e. not necessarily the rhGH treatment) as girls with TS have been shown to have an increased risk for cancer compared to the general population ( 265 ). In summary, twenty years of experience in 5220 patients seems reassuring and does
