Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


been shown to have an increased risk for cancer compared to the general population ( 265 ). In summary, twenty years of experience in 5220 patients seems reassuring and does not indicate any new rhGH-related safety signals in the TS population ( 264 ). There has been ongoing concern about tumorigenicity of chronically elevated IGF1 levels. It would therefore seem prudent to maintain IGF1 levels in the mid-normal range for age/pubertal stage and gender. Although the long-term consequences of elevated IGF1 levels during childhood are not known, some investigators recommend that dose reductions be considered if IGF1 levels are above the normal range ( 8 ). The report from the Safety and Appropriateness of Growth Hormone Treatments in Europe (SAGhE) in 2012 raised many concerns about the long-term safety of rhGH therapy in children. SAGhE is a large database established by eight European countries to evaluate the long-term safety of childhood GH treatment between 1980s and 1990s in 30,000 patients. Preliminary analysis of the patients in France revealed that among patients treated with rhGH, there was a 33% increased relative risk of mortality compared with French general population. They also noted an increased incidence of bone malignancies and cardiovascular disease ( 266 ). However, the data from the Belgian, Swedish the Dutch portions of SAGhE did not support or corroborate the findings that were reported from France ( 267 ). Real and Theoretical adverse events of GH therapy are summarized in Table13 . Table 13. Real and Theoretical Adverse Events of GH Treatment View in own window Side effects Comment Slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE) Unclear whether GH causes SCFE or if it is a result of diathesis and rapid growth induced by the GH. In addition, obesity, trauma, and previous radiation exposure increase the risk for SCFE. At each visit, patients should be evaluated for knee or hip pain/limp. Pseudotumor cerebri The mechanism is unclear, but it may be a result of GH induced salt and water retention within the CNS. Mostly occurs within the first months of treatment. It is more common in patients with organic GH deficiency, chronic renal insufficiency, and Turner Syndrome ( 257 ). Complaints of headache, nausea, dizziness, ataxia, or visual changes should be evaluated immediately. Leukemia Numerous large studies have not shown any association between rhGH and leukemia in children without predisposing conditions ( 254 , 257 , 268 ). Recurrence risk of
