Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


evaluated immediately. Leukemia Numerous large studies have not shown any association between rhGH and leukemia in children without predisposing conditions ( 254 , 257 , 268 ). Recurrence risk of CNS tumors Extensive studies did not support this possible side effect without risk factors ( 253 , 257 , 269 – 272 ) _ENREF_176 Risk of primary malignancy Studies have not shown a higher risk of all-site primary malignancy without a history of previous malignancy ( 273 , 274 ) Insulin resistance Insulin resistance is associated with GH therapy, though it is generally transient and/or reversible and rarely leads to overt diabetes. Patients with a limited insulin reserve may develop glucose intolerance. HbA1C should be monitored. Pancreatitis It may occur in patients with Turner syndrome, and associated risk factors ( 257 ). Hypothyroidism Almost 25% of children may develop declines in serum T4 levels, generally reflecting enhanced conversion of T4 to T3, rather than outright hypothyroidism. Transient gynecomastia These are attributed to anabolic and metabolic effects of GH. Scoliosis It is more common in Turner syndrome and PWS. Patients should be evaluated for scoliosis at each visit and referred as appropriate Adrenal Insufficiency GH decreases the conversion of corticosterone to cortisol by a modulating effect on hepatic 11-beta hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 1. Thus, endogenous cortisol levels can decrease in GHD patients after initiation of GH treatment. Furthermore, GH therapy may unmask previously unsuspected central ACTH deficiency. Whether the patients with hypopituitarism are on GH or not, they have a lifelong risk for adrenal insufficiency. Therefore, they should be monitored closely for adrenal insufficiency and their cortisol dose should be adjusted when GH therapy is started ( 257 ). Sleep apnea/sleep disturbance GH treatment might worsen sleep apnea/sleep disturbance in patients with Prader-Willi Syndrome, especially during a concomitant respiratory infection. Transitioning GH Treatment from Childhood to Adulthood Growing data support the need for continuation of GH treatment in individuals with childhood GH deficiency. GH treatment provides significant benefits in body composition, bone mineralization, lean body mass, lipid metabolism, and quality of life in adults with GH deficiency ( 275 , 276 ). However, identifying appropriate patients for transitioning from childhood to adult GH therapy remains challenging. The majority of children with a diagnosis of GHD and who are treated with GH do not have permanent GHD and will not require treatment during adulthood. Re-evaluation of GH secretory capacity is recommended after completion
