Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


diagnosis of GHD and who are treated with GH do not have permanent GHD and will not require treatment during adulthood. Re-evaluation of GH secretory capacity is recommended after completion of linear growth in adolescents with history of childhood GHD ( 277 ). However, such re-evaluation requires cessation of GH treatment for at least one month. Furthermore, there is no established optimal GH stimulation test identified and validated during this transition period. The stimulation test results vary by protocol, and only a few secretagogues (insulin, arginine, and glucagon) are available to confirm GHD. The cut-off values are also stricter; the peak GH level to establish GHD is <6 mcg/L for the insulin tolerance test and ≤ 3 mcg/L for the glucagon test in young adults ( 278 , 279 ). It is generally agreed that patients with severe GHD secondary to organic defects (hypothalamic-pituitary abnormalities, tumors involving pituitary or hypothalamic area, infiltrative diseases, and cranial irradiation), genetic causes of GHD involving one or more additional pituitary hormone deficiencies and serum IGF-1 level below the normal range at least one month off therapy, are more likely to have permanent GHD and retesting to confirm GHD is unnecessary ( 275 , 279 ). However, children with idiopathic GHD are less likely to have permanent GHD. In a US study, only one third of patients with idiopathic GHD retested as GHD ( 280 ). In that cohort, authors found age <4 at diagnosis and IGFBP3 below -2.0 SDS were the strongest predictive factors (100% PPV) for permanent GHD. In contrast to previous studies ( 277 ), low IGF-1 (< -2.0 SDS) did not have significant power to identify permanent GHD unless IGF-1 level was extremely low (-5.3 SDS) ( 280 ). In summary, current guidelines recommend the measurement of serum IGF-1 levels and a GH stimulation test after cessation of treatment for at least one month to determine whether the adolescents with childhood-onset GHD will need ongoing treatment unless they have known organic or genetic defects in the hypothalamic-pituitary region ( 275 , 276 , 279 ). CONCLUSION The control of human growth is becoming increasingly clear and involves both genetic and environmental factors. Many genes have been identified as being involved in normal growth and in the common phenotype of short stature. Genetic analyses, however, should follow a detailed clinical, biochemical and radiological assessment in order to refine the phenotype and point
