Growth and Growth Disorders
KEYWORDS: growth, pubmed, hormone, growth hormone, deficiency, children, gene, treatment, endocrinol, mutations, metab, clin, endocrinol metab, height, short


normal growth and in the common phenotype of short stature. Genetic analyses, however, should follow a detailed clinical, biochemical and radiological assessment in order to refine the phenotype and point to the relevant pathophysiology, e.g. genes involved in the development and function of the pituitary gland ( e.g. POU1F1 ), those involved in transducing the GH signal ( e.g. STAT5B ) or the IGF1 signal ( e.g. PAPPA2 ) and everything further “downstream”, e.g. the growth plate, ( e.g. SHOX ). Clinical identification of patterns and unique findings can direct the genetic evaluation and narrow its focus – e.g. short stature with an advanced bone age may suggest mutations in the ACAN gene. Identifying causes of short stature is challenging due to many factors, including the lack of ‘gold standard’ diagnostic criteria and limitations in available diagnostic tests ( 281 ). Clinical, biochemical and radiological evaluation continue to be the foundation for diagnosis. IGF1 and IGFBP3 measurements and neuroimaging play especially critical roles in defining the clinical phenotype, and in directing genetic testing to establish the diagnosis in children with abnormal growth and initiating appropriate treatment ( 281 , 282 ). Treatment with rhGH has been shown to be effective and safe, improving linear growth and achieving adult heights in the normal range, as well as improving body composition, bone mineral density, cardiovascular outcomes, and quality of life ( 283 – 285 ). rhIGF1 may be considered for select children, especially those with primary severe IGF1 deficiency. The timing of treatment initiation and dosage are crucial factors in determining treatment outcomes ( 286 ). Additionally, continuing GH administration during the transition period between childhood and adulthood may be necessary for proper body composition, bone and muscle health, and metabolic parameters ( 287 ). Weekly GH preparations are now approved for the treatment of children with GH deficiency and offer the potential for reduced treatment burden, increased compliance and improved clinical outcomes ( 219 , 288 ). However, long-term safety concerns and non-physiological GH profiles, need to be carefully monitored and addressed in future studies; a growth hormone registry for daily and weekly GH preparations may help resolve these questions ( 250 , 289 ). The understanding of growth remains complex, despite remarkable scientific advances in the last decades. Elucidation of new genetic factors, diagnostic tests and treatment options will provide us with a better understanding of the physiology of growth
