Aortic Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: aortic, regurgitation, valve, aortic regurgitation, heart, patients, murmur, diastolic, chronic, pressure, echocardiography, aortic valve, left, severe, sign


Aortic regurgitation (AR) is incomplete closure of the aortic valve, causing backflow from the aorta into the left ventricle during diastole. Causes include valvular degeneration, aortic root dilation, or both, related to underlying bicuspid aortic valve, aortic root dissection, rheumatic fever, endocarditis, myxomatous degeneration, and connective tissue (eg, Marfan syndrome) or rheumatologic diseases. Symptoms include exertional dyspnea, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, palpitations, and chest pain. Signs include widened pulse pressure and an early diastolic murmur. Diagnosis is by physical examination and echocardiography. Treatment is surgical aortic valve replacement or repair. (See also Overview of Cardiac Valvular Disorders.) Etiology of Aortic Regurgitation Aortic regurgitation, also called aortic insufficiency, may be acute (very uncommonly) or chronic. The primary causes of acute aortic regurgitation, are: Dissection of the ascending aorta Infective endocarditis The primary causes of chronic aortic regurgitation in adults are: Degeneration of the aortic valve and root (with or without a bicuspid valve) Infective endocarditis Myxomatous degeneration Rheumatic fever Thoracic aortic aneurysm Trauma 1/9 Common causes of chronic aortic regurgitation in children are: Ventricular septal defect with aortic valve prolapse Bicuspid aortic valve Aortic regurgitation due to myxomatous degeneration may develop in patients with Marfan syndrome or Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. Rarely, aortic regurgitation is caused by seronegative spondyloarthropathies (eg, ankylosing spondylitis, reactive arthritis, psoriatic arthritis), rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, arthritis associated with ulcerative colitis, luetic (syphilitic) aortitis, osteogenesis imperfecta, supravalvular or discrete membranous subaortic stenosis, Takayasu arteritis, rupture of a sinus of Valsalva, acromegaly, and giant cell arteritis. Pathophysiology of Aortic Regurgitation In aortic regurgitation, volume overload of the left ventricle (LV) occurs because during diastole the LV receives blood regurgitated from the aorta in addition to blood from the left atrium. In acute aortic regurgitation, the LV does not have time to dilate to accommodate the increased volume, which can then cause a rapid increase in left ventricular pressure and, subsequently, pulmonary edema and decreased cardiac output. In chronic aortic regurgitation, LV hypertrophy and dilation can occur gradually, so normal left ventricular pressures and cardiac output are maintained. But decompensation eventually develops, ultimately causing arrhythmias, LV dysfunction, and heart failure (HF). Symptoms and Signs of Aortic Regurgitation Acute aortic regurgitation can cause symptoms of heart failure (dyspnea, fatigue, weakness, edema) and cardiogenic shock (hypotension with resultant multisystem organ damage). Chronic aortic regurgitation is typically asymptomatic for years; progressive exertional dyspnea, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, and palpitations develop insidiously. Symptoms of
