Aortic Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: aortic, regurgitation, valve, aortic regurgitation, heart, patients, murmur, diastolic, chronic, pressure, echocardiography, aortic valve, left, severe, sign


and cardiogenic shock (hypotension with resultant multisystem organ damage). Chronic aortic regurgitation is typically asymptomatic for years; progressive exertional dyspnea, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, and palpitations develop insidiously. Symptoms of heart failure correlate poorly with objective measures of left ventricular function. Chest pain (angina pectoris) affects relatively few patients who do not have coexisting coronary artery disease (CAD) and, when it occurs, is especially common at night. Patients may present with endocarditis (eg, fever, anemia, weight loss, embolic phenomena) because the abnormal aortic valve is predisposed to bacterial seeding. Signs vary by severity and acuity. Signs in acute aortic regurgitation reflect heart failure and cardiogenic shock and typically include tachycardia, cool extremities, lung crackles, and low blood pressure. The first heart sound (S1) is usually absent (because aortic and LV diastolic pressures equalize), and a third heart sound (S3) is common. 2/9 As chronic disease progresses, systolic blood pressure increases while diastolic blood pressure decreases, creating a widened pulse pressure. With time, the LV impulse may become enlarged, increased in amplitude, and displaced downward and laterally, with systolic depression of the entire left parasternal area, giving a rocking motion to the left chest. The typical heart murmur of aortic regurgitation is a blowing, high-pitched, diastolic decrescendo murmur beginning soon after the first heart sound. It is generally louder in chronic AR, and may be soft or absent in acute AR even if severe. However, a mid-to-late diastolic rumble heard at the apex (Austin Flint murmur) may result from rapid regurgitant flow into the LV, causing mitral valve leaflet vibration at the peak of atrial flow. AUDIO Aortic Regurgitation AUDIO Austin Flint Murmur A systolic apical or carotid thrill may become palpable in later stages of AR; it is caused by large forward stroke volumes and low aortic diastolic pressure. Additional auscultatory findings may include a normal S1 and a nonsplit, loud, sharp or slapping second heart sound (S2) caused by increased elastic aortic recoil. The murmur of AR is often unimpressive, beginning soon after the aortic component of S2 (A2); it is loudest at the third or fourth left parasternal intercostal space or at the apex. The murmur is heard best with the diaphragm of the stethoscope when the patient is leaning forward, with breath held at end-expiration. It increases in volume in response to maneuvers that increase afterload (eg, squatting, isometric handgrip). If AR is slight, the murmur may
