Aortic Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: aortic, regurgitation, valve, aortic regurgitation, heart, patients, murmur, diastolic, chronic, pressure, echocardiography, aortic valve, left, severe, sign


is leaning forward, with breath held at end-expiration. It increases in volume in response to maneuvers that increase afterload (eg, squatting, isometric handgrip). If AR is slight, the murmur may occur only in early diastole. If LV diastolic pressure is very high, the murmur is short because aortic and LV diastolic pressures equalize earlier in diastole. Other abnormal sounds include a forward ejection and backward regurgitant flow (to-and-fro) murmur, an ejection click soon after the S1, and an aortic ejection flow murmur. A diastolic murmur heard near the axilla or mid left thorax (Cole-Cecil murmur) is caused by fusion of the aortic murmur with the S3, which is due to simultaneous filling of LV from the left atrium and AR. An Austin Flint murmur may mimic the diastolic murmur of mitral stenosis. Visible signs include: Head bobbing (de Musset sign) Pulsation of the fingernail capillaries (Quincke sign, best seen while applying slight pressure) Pulsation of the uvula (Müller sign) Palpable signs include: 3/9 Large-volume pulse with rapid rise and fall (slapping, water-hammer, or collapsing pulse) Pulsation of the carotid arteries (Corrigan sign) Pulsation of the retinal arteries (Becker sign) Pulsation of the liver (Rosenbach sign) Pulsation of the spleen (Gerhard sign) Blood pressure findings may include: Popliteal systolic pressure ≥ 60 mm Hg higher than brachial pressure (Hill sign) A fall in diastolic blood pressure of > 15 mm Hg with arm elevation (Mayne sign) Auscultatory signs include a: Sharp sound heard over the femoral pulse (pistol-shot sound, or Traube sign) Femoral systolic bruit distal and a diastolic bruit proximal to arterial compression (Duroziez sign) Diagnosis of Aortic Regurgitation Echocardiography Diagnosis of aortic regurgitation is suspected based on history and physical examination findings and confirmed by echocardiography. Doppler echocardiography is the test of choice to detect and quantify the magnitude of regurgitant blood flow and grade overall severity of the AR. Two-dimensional echocardiography can quantify aortic root size and anatomy and LV function. Both two-dimensional and three-dimensional echocardiography can be used to evaluate leaflet morphology. Severe chronic aortic regurgitation is suggested by any of the following: Color Doppler jet width ≥ 65% of the LV outflow tract diameter Holodiastolic flow reversal in the abdominal aorta (specific for severe AR) Regurgitant volume ≥ 60 mL/beat Regurgitation fraction ≥ 50% Vena contracta > 6 mm (the narrowest diameter of the fluid stream downstream of the abnormal valve orifice) Echocardiography can also assess
