Aortic Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: aortic, regurgitation, valve, aortic regurgitation, heart, patients, murmur, diastolic, chronic, pressure, echocardiography, aortic valve, left, severe, sign


volume ≥ 60 mL/beat Regurgitation fraction ≥ 50% Vena contracta > 6 mm (the narrowest diameter of the fluid stream downstream of the abnormal valve orifice) Echocardiography can also assess severity of pulmonary hypertension secondary to LV failure, detect vegetations or pericardial effusions (eg, in aortic dissection), and provide information about prognosis. Coarctation is associated with bicuspid valve and is detected echocardiography by placing the ultrasound transducer at the suprasternal notch, as well as evaluating the Doppler pattern in the abdominal aorta. Transesophageal echocardiography and three-dimensional echocardiography provide additional delineation of aortic dilatation and valve anatomy, which is especially useful when surgical repair is being considered. If the aorta is enlarged, gated computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is recommended to evaluate the entire thoracic aorta. MRI also can help assess LV function and degree of AR when echocardiographic images are suboptimal. 4/9 ECG and chest radiograph should also be performed. ECG may show repolarization abnormalities with or without QRS voltage criteria of LV hypertrophy, left atrial enlargement, and T-wave inversion with ST-segment depression in precordial leads. Chest radiograph may show cardiomegaly and a prominent aortic root in patients with chronic progressive AR. If AR is severe, signs of pulmonary edema and HF may also be present. Exercise testing may help assess functional capacity and symptoms in patients with documented AR and equivocal symptoms. Coronary angiography should be performed before surgery, even if no angina is present because approximately 20% of patients with severe AR have significant coronary artery disease (1), which may need concomitant coronary artery bypass graft surgery. First-degree relatives of patients with a bicuspid valve should be screened using echocardiography because up to 15% will be similarly affected (2). 5/9 Phonocardiographic Characteristics of Heart Murmurs Diagnosis references 1. Graboys TB, Cohn PF. The prevalence of angina pectoris and abnormal coronary arteriograms in severe aortic valvular disease. Am Heart J 1977;93(6):683-686. doi:10.1016/s0002-8703(77)80062-8 2. Borger MA, Fedak PWM, Stephens EH, et al. The American Association for Thoracic Surgery consensus guidelines on bicuspid aortic valve-related aortopathy: Full online-only version. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2018;156(2):e41-e74. doi:10.1016/j.jtcvs.2018.02.115 Treatment of Aortic Regurgitation Angiotensin II receptor blockers, for aortic root dilation 6/9 Aortic valve replacement or repair Pharmacologic treatment of heart failure, if present When aortic root dilatation is part of the mechanism of aortic regurgitation, angiotensin II receptor blockers may slow progression of root dilation, making them favored medications for patients
