Aortic Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: aortic, regurgitation, valve, aortic regurgitation, heart, patients, murmur, diastolic, chronic, pressure, echocardiography, aortic valve, left, severe, sign


if present When aortic root dilatation is part of the mechanism of aortic regurgitation, angiotensin II receptor blockers may slow progression of root dilation, making them favored medications for patients with concomitant hypertension. These medications do not reduce the severity of aortic regurgitation or alter disease progression. Intervention is either surgical aortic valve replacement or (less commonly) valve repair . An aortic bioprosthetic valve requires anticoagulation for 3 to 6 months postoperatively, but a mechanical valve requires lifetime anticoagulation using warfarin. Long-term non-vitamin K oral anticoagulants or warfarin can be considered in patients with a bioprosthetic valve and atrial fibrillation. (See also Anticoagulation for patients with a prosthetic cardiac valve or native valve disease.) Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is challenging in AR because of the dilated aortic annulus and lack of sufficient leaflet calcification, leading to prosthetic valve migration and/or paravalvular leak (1). Patients who are not candidates for surgery benefit from pharmacologic treatment of heart failure. Beta-blockers should be used with caution because they block compensatory tachycardia and worsen AR by prolonging diastole. Intra-aortic balloon pump insertion is contraindicated because the diastolic balloon inflation worsens AR. Patients with severe AR who do not meet the criteria for intervention should be reevaluated by physical examination and echocardiography every 6 to 12 months. Antibiotic prophylaxis against endocarditis is not recommended for aortic regurgitation except for patients who have had valve replacement (see table Recommended Endocarditis Prophylaxis During Oral-Dental or Respiratory Tract Procedures). Indications for intervention Intervention is indicated when: AR is severe and is causing symptoms AR is severe and is causing LV dysfunction (ejection fraction [EF] ≤ 55%, LV end-systolic 2 dimension > 50 mm, or indexed to body surface area > 25 mm/m ) AR is severe and at least 3 serial studies show a progressive decline in EF to 55 to 60%, or progressive increase in LV end-diastolic dimension to > 65 mm Patients with an enlarged ascending aorta frequently have AR as well as an increased risk of aortic dissection. A high risk of aortic dissection may be the first indication for cardiac surgery, which should be undertaken when Ascending aortic diameter is > 55 mm Bicuspid valve is present with ascending aortic diameter 50 to 55 mm and aortic growth rate > 5 mm/year, aortic coarctation, or a family history of aortic dissection 7/9 Marfan syndrome is present with ascending aortic diameter > 50 mm
