Aortic Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: aortic, regurgitation, valve, aortic regurgitation, heart, patients, murmur, diastolic, chronic, pressure, echocardiography, aortic valve, left, severe, sign


55 mm and aortic growth rate > 5 mm/year, aortic coarctation, or a family history of aortic dissection 7/9 Marfan syndrome is present with ascending aortic diameter > 50 mm (or less if the aortic growth rate is > 5 mm/year) or a family history of aortic dissection at < 50 mm diameter When cardiac surgery is being performed for other reasons, concomitant aortic surgery is indicated if the ascending aortic diameter is ≥ 45 mm. With treatment, the 10-year survival for patients with mild to moderate aortic regurgitation is 80 to 95%. With appropriately timed valve replacement (ie, before heart failure and using accepted criteria for intervention), long-term prognosis for patients with moderate to severe AR is good. However, the prognosis for patients with severe AR and heart failure is considerably poorer. Key Points The primary causes of acute aortic regurgitation (AR) are infective endocarditis and dissection of the ascending aorta; chronic AR in adults is most often caused by degeneration of the aortic valve or aortic root dilation. Acute AR causes symptoms of heart failure and cardiogenic shock, but signs of AR may be absent. Chronic AR is typically asymptomatic for years followed by progressive exertional dyspnea, orthopnea, and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. Typical heart sounds with chronic AR include a normal first heart sound (S1) followed by a sharp or slapping second heart sound (S2) and a blowing, high-pitched, decrescendo diastolic murmur. Acute AR requires prompt aortic valve replacement or repair. Chronic AR requires aortic valve replacement or repair when symptoms or left ventricular dysfunction develops; patients who meet criteria but are not candidates for surgery benefit from treatment of heart failure. AR is sometimes accompanied by a dilated ascending aorta. Indications for surgery on the ascending aorta may occur before surgery is indicated for AR.
