Viral and Atypical Bacterial Etiology of Acute Respiratory
KEYWORDS: pathogens, respiratory, children, hrv, group, hcov, study, aris, pneumonia, rsva, human, samples, hpiv, acute, fever


enough to be investigated further. sensitiveandthespectrumofpathogensislarge,coveringmostof 87.5%ofchildrenreceivedantibioticsasaresultofauscultation.If those implicated in the ARIs. In this study, the frequently only viruses are actually mostly the cause of ALRIs in encountered pathogens were the HRV, HMPV A/B, HCoV, Ampasimanjeva,simplerecommendationssuchasthoseproposed RSVA/BandHPIV.Themostrepresentativepathogensintothe by WHO and UNICEF could reduce the morbidity and for pneumonia, other ALRIs, Flu-like illnesses and URTI, respiratory pathogens among children with malaria (n=21). In respectively. The human rhinovirus, HMPV A/B and RSV A/B the absence of appropriate diagnostic tools in low income were single detected while HCoV, HPIV and HBoV were most countries, integrated management of childhood illnesses (IMCI) often co-detected. Human rhinovirus was found largely in all at health facilities is presumptive and symptom-based: fever for HRV has long been considered to be a benign virus causing These overlapping symptoms, compatible both with malaria and mild upper respiratory tract infections, but there is evidence that pneumonia,necessitatingdualtreatment,needtobeevaluatedin HRV is also involved in ALRIs more specifically in further studies. Unexplained acute febrile illness is the only bronchiolitis,butitsroleisnotyetwelldefinedinpneumonia common factor in children living in endemic malaria region. In . HRV is frequently found as asymptomatic carriage thisstudy,weshowedthatthefevercannotbeconsideredaloneto , a comprehensive study on genotypes from HRV- positive samples would be interesting. As, it seems that the new seemtoberelatedtofeverprognosisexceptforInfluenzaviruses. andpotentiallymorepathogenicHRV-Cwhichhasbeenrecently Finally,theinterpretationofthefevermaybebiasedbytheuseof discoverediscorrelatedwiththeseverityofARIs. antipyretic treatment, and24.1%ofour patients hadevidenceof Our molecular results showed a large number of respiratory antipyretic use before study enrollment. Finally, this study was pathogens associated with the different clinical manifestations conducted over one year, covering both hot/rainy and cold/dry including a large part in pneumonia. Viral pneumonia is also seasons, toget a preliminary description of respiratory pathogens increasingly described in the literature but it is nevertheless still and respiratory pathogens spread during this period. This short underestimated.Inchildren,RSV,HRVandHMPVhave timeperiodshould beprolongedtodeepen ourknowledge about become important pathogens most frequently encountered in these pathogens and perhaps anticipate epidemics in light of children with pneumonia in developed countries [24–27]. In improvingthehealth care ofchildren. In conclusion, the use of molecular assays has allowed us to tations, the human metapneumovirus was better associated with refine our understanding of the viral etiologies of ARIs among community-acquired pneumonia with a higher prevalence than childrenlivinginaruralareaofMadagascar.Furtherstudiesare those described in the literature . HMPV is, however, neededtoproperlydistinguishbetweeninfectionandcolonization. considered to have an important role in pneumonia increasing They will lead to comparing findings in different respiratory childmorbidityworldwide.InastudydoneinAntananar- samples and reference standards. Viruses seem to be commonly ivo (2008/2009) , RSV A/B was mainly represented among involved in
