Viral and Atypical Bacterial Etiology of Acute Respiratory
KEYWORDS: pathogens, respiratory, children, hrv, group, hcov, study, aris, pneumonia, rsva, human, samples, hpiv, acute, fever


They will lead to comparing findings in different respiratory childmorbidityworldwide.InastudydoneinAntananar- samples and reference standards. Viruses seem to be commonly ivo (2008/2009) , RSV A/B was mainly represented among involved in pneumonia. While some viruses such as HRV are children with Influenza-Like Illnesses and similarly, our results showed that this virus was primarily associated with group II hMPV and RSV are most often associated with pneumonia or whichwedefined here as Influenza-like syndrome. influenza-like illnesses. A better understanding of the biodiversity Atypicalbacteriapathogenswerealsoinvestigated.Wedetected of each pathogen correlated to well-defined clinical ARIs a low rate of M. pneumoniae (1.7%) and C. pneumoniae (0.7%) manifestations could beexplored. distributedinallfourclinicalgroups.Ourresultscorrelatetothose described in several studies, which show that atypical bacteria prevalenceinacuterespiratoryinfectionsmayvarydependingon Acknowledgments theageof children [28,31–33]. Wethankallchildrenandparentsenrolledinthisstudyfortheirhelpand Ourstudyhasseverallimitations.Firstly,wedidnotinvestigate consenttoparticipate.WealsothankDr.Hortenseandtheentiremedical theviralandatypicalrespiratorypathogensincontrolpopulation team at the Medical Foundation of Ampasimanjeva and Reggio Terzo as asymptomatic carriers. This could limit our interpretation to Mundo(RTM)fortheirinvolvementinthisstudy.Wethankalltheteamof ascribe the etiological agents to the defined clinical groups. Centre d’Infectiologie Charles Me´rieux represented by the Dean of the However, some of the potential etiological agents described here FacultyofMedicineofAntananarivo,Pr.RapenaloroRabenja. are rarely identified or less common in asymptomatic patients, except for rhinoviruses . A longitudinal case/control Author Contributions studywouldbeinterestingtovalidatetherelevanceoftheseagents Conceivedanddesignedtheexperiments:JHMRARBCGPB.Performed in acute respiratory infections despite the difficulty to obtain the experiments: JH HR. Analyzed the data: JH HR MR JN BC GPB. approval requirements from ethical committee. Our results Contributedreagents/materials/analysistools:GVGPB.Wrotethepaper: highlight a significant proportion of viruses among children with JHGPB.
