Heliyon10(2024)e36128
KEYWORDS: patient, liver, tafro, syndrome, tafro syndrome, fig, writing, revealed, biopsy, disease, pleural, abdominal, case, effusion, lymph


Heliyon10(2024)e36128 Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Heliyon journal homepage: www.cell.com/heliyon Case report TAFRO syndrome with abdominal pain as the first symptom accompanied by liver damage with hyperbilirubinemia: A case report Yu Liua,1, Xue Meia,1, Zhiping Qiana, Wei Yuana, Jiefei Wanga, Liujuan Jia, Dong Zengb, Yanli Zhouc, Yuyi Zhanga,* A R T I C L E I N F O A B S T R A C T Keywords: Thrombocytopenia, anasarca, fever, reticulin fibrosis on bone marrow biopsy/renal dysfunction, TAFRO syndrome and organomegaly (TAFRO) syndrome are infrequent conditions with diverse clinical and path- Castleman’s disease ological characteristics related to multi-organ damage. There are few reports of TAFRO syndrome Liver damage accompanied by liver damage with hyperbilirubinemia. We describe the case of a 61-year-old Hyperbilirubinemia male who presented with sudden onset abdominal pain accompanied by liver damage with hyperbilirubinemia. His symptoms worsened, leading to fever, hepatic insufficiency, serous cavity effusions, thrombocytopenia, and acute renal failure. Fever and anasarca relapsed after steroid discontinuation. The patient was ultimately diagnosed with TAFRO syndrome by biopsies taken from the axillary lymph nodes. He was then administered steroids, which resolved his symptoms almost completely. Our case was notable for its atypical signs and total remission of TAFRO syndrome. 1. Background TAFRO syndrome is a clinical subtype of idiopathic multicentric Castleman disease (iMCD) that is characterized by thrombocy- topenia (T), anasarca (A), fever (F), reticulin fibrosis/renal insufficiency (R), and organomegaly (O) . TAFRO syndrome was first described in 2010 . The diagnostic criteria for TAFRO syndrome were published in 2021 . For TAFRO syndrome, high-dose glucocorticoid medication is the recommended course of treatment. If this treatment is ineffective, second-line treatments include cyclosporine, tocilizumab, and rituximab. The disease is extremely rare, and physicians are not well-versed in treating it. It is chal- lenging to diagnose the disease promptly and treat patients as soon as possible. We encountered a 61-year-old man who experienced liver damage with hyperbilirubinemia in addition to the core signs. After four months of hormone treatment, he experienced notable improvement in his condition. However, he experienced fever and edema eight months after the cessation of hormone therapy. findings significantly improved following one year of hormone treatment. * Corresponding author. E-mail address: (Y. Zhang). 1 These authors contributed equally to this work. Received 19 April 2024; Received in revised form 31 July 2024; Accepted 9 August 2024 Availableonline10August2024 2405-8440/© 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is
