Heliyon10(2024)e36128
KEYWORDS: patient, liver, tafro, syndrome, tafro syndrome, fig, writing, revealed, biopsy, disease, pleural, abdominal, case, effusion, lymph


biopsy of a right axillary lymph node for pathological examination and immunohistochemistry. Afterward, other diseases, such as autoimmune diseases, connective tissue system diseases, infections, ma- tochemistry (Fig. 4). The patient was diagnosed with Castleman’s syndrome (Fig. 4A). All lymphocytes were positive for CD3 (T cells) (Fig. 4B), CD20 (B cells) (Fig. 4C), the proliferation marker Ki67 (Fig. 4D) and the proliferation marker CD138 (Fig. 4E) and were the patient met the TAFRO syndrome diagnostic criteria. After undergoing hormone therapy once more, the patient’s condition improved. Steroids were administered to the patient until June 2023. A recent phone follow-up revealed no recurrence. 3. Discussion TAFRO syndrome is an infrequent disease, and it is a systemic inflammatory disease caused by a cytokine storm. The rapid course of the disease and the challenge of obtaining biopsy samples for diagnosis account for the high death rate associated with TAFRO syn- drome. However, TAFRO syndrome-like symptoms can also be present in patients with a variety of other illnesses, making differential histological findings of his lymph nodes were compatible with those of iMCD. In addition to the usual symptoms, TAFRO syndrome can also present with a variety of manifestations; in this case, liver injury with hyperbilirubinemia worsened the condition. A precise diagnosis is frequently challenging due to the phenotypic similarities between decompensated liver cirrhosis and TAFRO syndrome . In the present case, the patient had a history of alcohol consumption. However, the patient’s drinking history was not yet able to be diagnosed with alcoholic liver disease, and he did not have imaging or pathological evidence of cirrhosis. There are two reports of patients with hyperbilirubinemia , but a liver biopsy was not performed. There was one case of TAFRO syndrome with cholangitis on liver biopsy. However, review publications have not addressed hyperbilirubinemia or liver injury . In our present case, CT revealed cholecystitis and no dilatation or filling defects in the intrahepatic bile duct or common bile duct. The patient had a history of alcohol consumption and had taken drugs suspected of causing liver damage. Although laboratory tests are not diagnostic for a specific etiology, we chose not to perform a liver biopsy during the period of high jaundice because of the risk of bleeding. Instead, we chose to perform liver biopsy during the recovery period. However, the liver biopsy results were basically normal, ruling out the pathological characteristics of chronic liver diseases, including autoimmune liver
