Heliyon10(2024)e36128
KEYWORDS: patient, liver, tafro, syndrome, tafro syndrome, fig, writing, revealed, biopsy, disease, pleural, abdominal, case, effusion, lymph


we chose to perform liver biopsy during the recovery period. However, the liver biopsy results were basically normal, ruling out the pathological characteristics of chronic liver diseases, including autoimmune liver disease. Due to the increase in IL-6, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and other cytokines, which increase vascular permeability and cause resulting organ damage, TAFRO syndrome can cause systemic inflammatory responses. Despite the fact that our patient’s serum IL-6 levels were more than ten times greater than the upper limit of normal, VEGF was not tested. In some critically ill individuals, the levels of inflammatory factors such as IL-6 gradually increase, causing cytokine storms . We hypothesize that the unfavorable microenvironment created by the Y. Liu et al. H e l i y o n 10(2024)e36128 Fig. 4. Pathological and immunohistochemical results of the lymph node biopsy (right armpit) for Castleman disease. A: HE 10X; B: CD3 (+) 20X; C: CD20 (+) 20X; D: Ki67 (+) 10X; E: CD138 (+) 20X; F: HHV8 ((cid:0) ) 20X. inflammatory cytokine storm is the primary factor contributing to liver damage in this patient with TAFRO syndrome. Liver tissue contains a considerable number of cells that participate in immunological responses and perform critical immune defense and reg- ulatory activities . Immune-mediated cytokine storms cause the production of a high number of pro-inflammatory molecules, which can increase non-specific immune inflammatory responses in the liver, resulting in secondary liver injury. The liver has a high demand for oxygen, making it vulnerable to the consequences of hypoxia. When there is high pleural effusion, respiratory failure, and renal failure in TAFRO syndrome patients, systemic arterial pressure and hepatic artery perfusion decrease, which can lead to hypoxic liver damage. When hypoxemia occurs, low oxygen and fat accumulation in liver cells can cause cell death, an oxidative stress response, the creation of several pro-inflammatory substances, and, eventually, liver injury. In vivo and in vitro studies have also proven that liver ischemia and hypoxia can promote liver cell death and inflammatory cell infiltration . In our case, the patient was treated with the artificial liver technique, which led to rapid amelioration of hyperbilirubinemia. Moreover, hormones and internal medicine also play key roles in restoring liver function. The patient’s first symptom was abdominal pain. A recent systematic review revealed that abdominal pain in TAFRO syndrome patients is associated with adrenal abnormalities, such as adrenomegaly, adrenal ischemia/infarction or hemorrhage . Previous research has
