Heliyon10(2024)e36128
KEYWORDS: patient, liver, tafro, syndrome, tafro syndrome, fig, writing, revealed, biopsy, disease, pleural, abdominal, case, effusion, lymph


abdominal pain. A recent systematic review revealed that abdominal pain in TAFRO syndrome patients is associated with adrenal abnormalities, such as adrenomegaly, adrenal ischemia/infarction or hemorrhage . Previous research has demonstrated that adrenal disorders on early-stage CT are effective for predicting unfavorable prognosis. Zhou Q et al. reported a case in which acute epigastric pain was the initial complaint, and computed tomography (CT) revealed retroperitoneal exudation surrounding the pancreas, resulting in a diagnosis of acute pancreatitis . All ancillary investigations of this patient, including upper abdominal CT, positron emission tomography (PET)/CT, and abdominal ultrasound, revealed no adrenal or pancreatic abnormalities. In addition, his serum amylase and lipase levels were both normal. Abdominal ultrasonography revealed cholecystitis with gallstones. In conclusion, the gallbladder was identified as the source of the abdominal pain in this patient. Although the etiology of TAFRO syndrome is unclear, its pathogenesis mainly involves excessive cytokine secretion and autoim- mune dysfunction. Several experts speculate that MCD in immunocompetent patients might be due to proinflammatory Y. Liu et al. H e l i y o n 10(2024)e36128 hypercytokinemia because of infection by a virus other than HHV8, inflammation, or neoplastic disease . In our patient, although NGS revealed CMV infection, the number of sequences was small, and the serum CMV DNA result was negative; thus, we did not suspect that CMV was involved in the pathogenesis of this patient with TAFRO syndrome. Since the COVID-19 pandemic, there have been a few reports of TAFRO syndrome development following COVID-19 or COVID-19 immunization . Cytokine storms play a role in both excessive immunoreaction after COVID-19 and TAFRO syndrome. Previously, three case reports [15–17] showed that TAFRO syndrome was triggered by the COVID-19 vaccine. One case of manifestations mimicking TAFRO syndrome can occur after COVID-19 . Our patient was also vaccinated with the COVID-19 vaccine before disease onset. It is still unclear, however, whether the illness and the vaccination are connected. of other iMCD patients. The enlargement of lymph nodes for unknown reasons is suggested to improve the effectiveness of lymph node biopsy. In our patient, if he underwent a lymph node biopsy during the first hospitalization, he may not need to be hospitalized again. An investigation of 38 peer-reviewed case reports of TAFRO syndrome by Yamaguchi Y et al. revealed that the median re- covery time from thrombocytopenia was 47.5 days. Our patient recovered from thrombocytopenia after 49 days, which aligns with
