Heliyon10(2024)e36128
KEYWORDS: patient, liver, tafro, syndrome, tafro syndrome, fig, writing, revealed, biopsy, disease, pleural, abdominal, case, effusion, lymph


TAFRO syndrome by Yamaguchi Y et al. revealed that the median re- covery time from thrombocytopenia was 47.5 days. Our patient recovered from thrombocytopenia after 49 days, which aligns with earlier reported observations. The standard of therapy for TAFRO syndrome has not been fully established; however, the most commonly applied treatments include IL-6 blocking therapy with siltuximab or tocilizumab and anti-inflammatory therapy with high-dose corticosteroids . A recent study involving six patients with TAFRO syndrome indicated that early glucocorticoid therapy can improve prognosis, compatible with TAFRO but no pathologically proven Castleman disease be treated equally and vigorously. Therefore, we used hormone therapy in time. The patient’s condition recurred after discontinuing steroids. The patient was diagnosed with TAFRO through lymph node biopsy and treated with steroids, to achieve a cure. The response rates to various treatment strategies for TAFRO syndrome vary, so personalized strategies should be highlighted . According to a previous study, peritoneal dialysis is a viable treatment option for TAFRO syndrome patients who have acute renal injury and refractory ascites . In our situation, peritoneal dialysis might also be attempted. According to a recent Japanese study , D-dimer ≥18 μg/dL and age ≥60 years were found to be significant predictors of poor overall survival in TAFRO syndrome patients. Despite both of these risk factors, our patient’s prognosis was favorable because of his vigorous therapy. To improve the patient’s overall prognosis and quality of life, timely and precise diagnosis, efficient treatment, and recurrence prevention are critical. 4. Conclusions TAFRO syndrome is rare and clinically complex. We encountered a patient with TAFRO syndrome who presented with manifes- tations similar to those of liver cirrhosis accompanied by liver damage with hyperbilirubinemia. The unusual symptoms and complete recovery of TAFRO syndrome in our study made it noteworthy. We would like to offer a reference for the diagnosis and treatment of this disease, promoting more research into this disease. Ethics approval and consent to participate The study was approved by the medical ethics committee of Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center. This study was conducted in was obtained from the patient. Data availability statement No datasets were generated or analyzed during the current study. Funding This work was supported by the internal research fund of the Clinical Research Plan of SHDC (No. SHDC2020CR1037B China). CRediT authorship contribution statement Yu Liu: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, Visualization, Validation, Supervision, Software, Resources, Project
