J. Anat. (1989), 162, pp. 83-96 83
KEYWORDS: cells, mean, intestinal, mean mean, ofthe, small, intestine, small intestine, opossum, table, seg, enteroendocrine, number, colon, enteroendocrine cells


numbers increase sharply to equal those in weaned animals (Table 8). Neurotensin-immunoreactive cells are unique in that they are not seen until 74 days postnatally and first appear in the distal segments of the small intestine, increasing in number in a distal to proximal gradient as development continues (Table 9). Secretin-, motilin-, GIP-, and CCK-immunoreactive cells are generally concentrated in the duodenum early in development and then increase in number to show a proximal to more distal progression with age (Table 10-13). Secretin- and motilin-immunoreactive cells remain concentrated chiefly in the proximal small intestine, whereas GIP- and CCK-immunoreactive cells become more evenly distributed throughout the small intestine with age. The total number of enteroendocrine cells in the intestinal mucosa gradually decreases somewhat from birth to about 74 days postnatum, then shows a dramatic increase at weaning and a continued increase in number in the weaned (juvenile) animals (Fig. 1). Caecum and colon The narrow lumen ofthe colon in the newborn opossum is lined either by a simple or pseudostratified columnar epithelium which shows a well-developed apical endocytic complex and contains numerous large lipid droplets. Goblet cells increase in number towards the end ofthe first postnatal week and, by the end ofthe second week, only scattered intestinal epithelialcells showapicalconcentrations ofabsorptive 4 ANA 162 90 W. J. KRAUSE, J. YAMADA AND J. H. CUTTS - /+ - E ° 4000 +/ *1i .' 3000 C.) '0 c 1000 [ , J NB 25 125 20-5 30 Body length Fig. 1. Enteroendocrine cells in the intestinal tract ofthe developing opossum. materials. Enteroendocrine cells immunoreactive for 5-HT, somatostatin and neurotensin were seen in the intestinal epithelium of the colon at all stages of development (Table 14) but immunoreactivities to the other gastrointestinal peptides were not seen. 5-HT-immunoreactive cells were found scattered throughout the colon ofthe newborn; they increase in number with ageing and become more concentrated distally (Table 14). Somatostatin-immunoreactive cells appear to be concentrated proximally in the colon ofthe newborn opossum then decrease in number to become uniformly distributed throughout its length, although there appears to be a slight increase in the number ofcells at weaning followed by a decrease in weaned animals (Table 14). Neurotensin-immunoreactive cells are firstobserved in theproximal colon of the newborn but by 74 days are found throughout the colon. As their numbers increase with ageing, the cells show a greater concentration distally (Table 14). Cells immunoreactive for 5-HT,
