J. Anat. (1989), 162, pp. 83-96 83
KEYWORDS: cells, mean, intestinal, mean mean, ofthe, small, intestine, small intestine, opossum, table, seg, enteroendocrine, number, colon, enteroendocrine cells


given intestinal segment. This observation may account for the large standard deviations of the counts of some enteroendocrine cells. DISCUSSION Gastrin-, 5-HT-, somatostatin-, BPP-, glucagQn (glicentin)-, secretin-, motilin-, GIP- and CCK-immunoreactive cells are present in the intestinal epithelium of the newborn opossum and of these, gastrin-, 5-HT- and somatostatin-immunoreactive cells show a distribution similar to that ofthe adult (Krause et al, 1985). Glucagon- and BPP-immunoreactive cells are present in considerable numbers throughout the small intestine of the newborn, but unlike other enteroendocrine cell types, these decrease rapidly in number and by the end ofthe first postnatal week are seen only as occasional, scattered cells as reported in the adult . Other immunoreactive cells (secretin, motilin, GIP, CCK) are concentrated initially in the proximal smallintestine ofthe newborn, thengraduallydifferentiate in themore distal regions of the small intestine, finally resulting in the adult distribution. A similar proximal todistalgradient has been reportedinthedevelopinggutofthepig(Alumets etal. 1983), rat(Larssonetal. 1974)andman(Larsson, Hakanson, Sjoberg&Sundler, 1975; Chayvialle et al. 1980). Neurotensin-immunoreactive cells are unique in that their initial appearance in the small intestine is delayedconsiderably -by about 74 days-and they first occur in the distalsegments ofthe smallintestine, thentakeonadistaltoproximal gradientduring development. The adult distribution of neurotensin-immunoreactive cells is not reached until after weaning (Krause, et al. 1985). Although neurotensin-immuno- reactive cells are present in the intestinal epithelium of the proximal colon in the newborn, the cells later disappear and a significant population is not seen in this location until about the 74th postnatal day. The cells at first are concentrated distally asintheadult(Krauseetal. 1985). Ingestion offood, particularly fat, andintravenous 4-2 92 W. J. KRAUSE, J. YAMADA AND J. H. CUTTS infusion ofneurotensin increase colonic motility (Snape, Matarazzo & Cohen, 1978; Wright etal. 1980; Hellstrom & Rosell, 1981) and ithasbeen suggested thatincreased colonic motility and defaecation may be due, at least in part, to the release of neurotensin following intake of food (Thor & Rosell, 1986). The appearance of neurotensin-immunoreactive cells in the intestinal tract of the opossum occurs just before weaning, suggesting that similar events may occur as the animals leave the confinesofthepouch. Enteroendocrinecellsimmunoreactive for5-HTorsomatostatin arealso scattered throughout thecolon ofthe newborn andhavean adultdistribution despite the immature appearance ofthe colon . Certain gastrointestinal peptides may exert inductive or inhibitory effects on the gastrointestinal tract during development and initiate secretion and/or motility (Johnson, 1987). Forexample, gastrin-immunoreactive cells aremost abundant in the gastric mucosa during the time that oxyntic glands increase in length due to an
