J. Anat. (1989), 162, pp. 83-96 83
KEYWORDS: cells, mean, intestinal, mean mean, ofthe, small, intestine, small intestine, opossum, table, seg, enteroendocrine, number, colon, enteroendocrine cells


during development and initiate secretion and/or motility (Johnson, 1987). Forexample, gastrin-immunoreactive cells aremost abundant in the gastric mucosa during the time that oxyntic glands increase in length due to an increase inthenumberofparietalcells (Krause, Cutts& Leeson, 1976) and exogenous administration of pentagastrin causes an increase in depth of the oxyntic mucosa (Crean, Marshall & Rumsey, 1969; Stanley, Coalson, Grossman &Johnson, 1972). In addition to promoting growth, gastrin is thought to be selectively targeted to specific cell types in the oxyntic mucosa. Gastrin stimulates DNA synthesis and the mitotic activity of glandular stem cells and increases the number of parietal cells (Willems, Vansteenkiste & Limbosch, 1972; Willems & Lehy, 1975; Caes & Willems, 1984; Majumdar, 1984). Exogenous gastrin administration does not increase the number of chiefcells or stimulate the growth ofthe pyloric mucosa. The number of somatostatin-immunoreactive cells increases markedly in the stomach ofthe 74 days old opossum and in the small intestine at weaning, and it is only after the oxyntic glands have been established that the total number of somatostatin-immunoreactive cells in the gastrointestinal tract exceed those immuno- reactive for gastrin (Krause, Yamada & Cutts, 1986). It is at this time that chiefcells make their initial appearance in the oxyntic glands . Exogenous administration of somatostatin results in hypoplasia of parietal cells, decreases the proliferation ofprogenitorcells stimulated bygastrin, andcounteracts thestimulatory effects ofexogenous pentagastrin on the fundic mucosa (Lehy, 1984; Senegas-Balas etal. 1985). Theseeffectssuggestthatsomatostatinmaymodulatethedifferentiationof parietal cells through action on gastrin-containing cells. There seems to be little correlation between the appearance of specific types of enteroendocrine cells, theirconcentration andtheloss oftheapical endocytic complex in adsorptive intestinal epithelial cells. When one examines the total number of enteroendocrine cells in the intestinal mucosa immediately prior to, during, and after weaning a dramatic increase in the total number ofenteroendocrine cells is seen, but how this is related to the maturation ofthe intestinal tract is unknown. The liver and pancreas originate from that region of the foregut that shows the greatestdiversity ofenteroendocrinecelltypes. Atbirththeliverofthe opossumisnot well enough established to assume normal hepatic function and it acts primarily as a haemopoietic organ for the first weeks of the postnatal period (Cutts, Leeson & Krause, 1973; Krause, Cutts & Leeson, 1975). Similarly, the pancreas ofthe newborn opossum is apparently non-functional and consists essentially of a central area of newly forming islets enveloped by developing epithelial tubules of the exocrine component. By the end of the first postnatal week, intralobular ducts,
