J. Anat. (1989), 162, pp. 83-96 83
KEYWORDS: cells, mean, intestinal, mean mean, ofthe, small, intestine, small intestine, opossum, table, seg, enteroendocrine, number, colon, enteroendocrine cells


and consists essentially of a central area of newly forming islets enveloped by developing epithelial tubules of the exocrine component. By the end of the first postnatal week, intralobular ducts, acini and centroacinar cells are present (King, Krause & Cutts, 1978), but the appearance of more mature pancreatic lobules is not a prominent feature ofthe opossum pancreas until about 60 postnatal days. During the first 75 days ofpostnatal development the Enteroendocrine cells in developing small intestine and colon 93 ductal system and acini of the exocrine pancreas are established. After weaning, developmentisconcernedprimarilywithexpansion ofestablished ductsandacini. The number of gastrin- and CCK-immunoreactive cells in the intestinal mucosa is relatively high during this period ascompared to adultlevels (Krauseetal. 1985). The number ofsecretin-immunoreactive cells do not reach adult levels until afterweaning. Although CCK and gastrin are structurally and functionally related, gastrin is thought to play only a minor role in the regulation ofpancreatic growth (Johnson, 1987). Exogenous administration of combinations of CCK and secretin result in potentiated growth responses of the rat pancreas, greater than those when separate individual doses ofthesamepeptides areused (Dembinski &Johnson, 1980;Johnson, 1987; Solomonetal. 1978, 1983). Somatostatin inhibits growth ofthe gastrointestinal mucosa and the pancreas (Morisset, Genik, Lord & Solomon, 1982; Morisset, 1984). Regulation of growth of the gastrointestinal mucosa and its associated glands is influenced by hormones from other endocrine glands (pituitary, adrenal cortex, thyroid) andbythepresence offood within thegutlumen. Gastrointestinal hormones themselves may interact with other endocrine organs to regulate the growth of the gastrointestinal mucosa anditsderivatives (Enochs &Johnson, 1977; Johnson, 1987). Zonation of the adrenal cortex is apparent and the medulla is well formed in the opossumbytheend ofthesecond postnatalweek(Carmichaeletal. 1987) butwhether or not corticosteroids are being produced at this time, is unknown. The pituitary and thyroid of the opossum appear to be very immature during the first two weeks of postnatallifeanditisnotuntilrelativelylate(fourweekspostnatally)thattheseorgans begin to show adult features (Sherman & Dunkerley, 1982; Krause & Cutts, 1983). These observations suggest that the classical endocrine organs may have little influence on the development ofthe gastrointestinal tract early in the postnatal life of the opossum but may play a major role later in the postnatal period, jiist prior to, during, and after weaning when structural and functional maturation of these structures occur. It is also at this time that the majority ofgut enteroendocrine cells are at their highest number. The gastrointestinal mucosa, the pancreas and liver, adrenal cortex, thyroid and adenohypophysis develop primarily during
