J. Anat. (1989), 162, pp. 83-96 83
KEYWORDS: cells, mean, intestinal, mean mean, ofthe, small, intestine, small intestine, opossum, table, seg, enteroendocrine, number, colon, enteroendocrine cells


also at this time that the majority ofgut enteroendocrine cells are at their highest number. The gastrointestinal mucosa, the pancreas and liver, adrenal cortex, thyroid and adenohypophysis develop primarily during the postnatal period in the opossum, in contrast to most other mammals where this development occurs in utero. The opossum would appear to be an ideal model in which to study gastrointestinal tract development and its interrelationship with those endocrine organs that influence its differentiation and growth. The classical endocrine glands essentially develop in parallel with the gut during the long postnatal period. In addition to its very immature state at birth, the opossum model has the advantage of beingreadily accessible inthepouchtooperative, chemicalanddietarymanipulations. Litters are relatively large and littermates at about the same stage ofdevelopment can be manipulated differently to allow for control and experimental groups among very similar animals (littermates) in the same environment, and the pattern ofdevelopment in the opossum is typically mammalian. SUMMARY Enteroendocrine cells immunoreactive for gastrin, bovine pancreatic polypeptide (BPP), glucagon (glicentin), 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), somatostatin, secretin, motilin, gastric inhibitory peptide (GIP) and cholecystokinin (CCK) are scattered throughout the small intestinal epithelium ofthe newborn opossum and in all later postnatal stages examined. The number ofBPP- and glucagon-immunoreactive cells 94 W. J. KRAUSE, J. YAMADA AND J. H. CUTTS is relatively high in the newborn and rapidly decreases until only occasional cells are present after the first postnatal week. Cells immunoreactive for GIP, CCK, 5-HT, motilin, gastrin and secretin increase innumberwithdevelopment. Secretin-, motilin-, CCK- and GIP-immunoreactive cells generally are concentrated proximally in the small intestine andas theyincreaseinnumber, differentiate inmoredistal regions. The number ofgastrin-immunoreactive cells actually decreasesjust prior to weaning but thenincreases atand after, weaning. Neurotensin-immunoreactive cells areunusual in that they do not appear until about the 74th postnatal day and then are first encountered in the distal small intestine. As development progresses they increase in number and appear in the more proximal regions. Cells immunoreactive for 5-HT at first increase but then decrease sharply at weaning only to increase markedly again after this time. In contrast, somatostatin-immunoreactive cells gradually decrease in number until weaning then dramatically increase. Ifthetotalnumberofenteroendocrine cellsinthesmallintestineisconsidered, there is a gradual decrease from birth until weaning when a dramatic increase occurs. Cells immunoreactive forneurotensin, 5-HT and somatostatin arealso foundinthe intestinal epithelium ofthe developing colon and caecum. Somatostatin- and 5-HT- immunoreactive cells are found throughout the colon in the newborn whereas neurotensin-immunoreactive cells, although observed initially
