Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


ABSTRACT The pituitary gland, or hypophysis, and adjacent structures of the sellar region can be affected by a wide range of pathologies leading to endocrine and neurological disorders. These include neoplasms arising from the adenohypophysis, such as pituitary adenomas associated with distinctive endocrine disorders such as acromegaly or Cushing’s disease; cysts or neoplasms derived from remnants of Rathke’s pouch (Rathke’s cleft cyst, craniopharyngioma); tumours of the neurohypophysis and pituitary stalk (pituicytoma, granular cell tumour) and neoplasms of the parasellar bone (chordoma). Further, conditions like lymphocytic or granulomatous hypophysitis may mimic pituitary neoplasms. Here, we provide an overview of the molecular pathogenesis and neuropathological features of these common lesions. For complete coverage of this and related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our free web –book, www.endotext.org . PITUITARY ADENOMAS Definition Pituitary adenomas are benign clonal neoplasms of the neuroendocrine epithelial cells of the adenohypophysis. General Features Pituitary adenomas share characteristics with other adenomas of endocrine glands: granular cytoplasm, round nuclei with finely dispersed chromatin and multiple distinct nucleoli; they generally also express both markers of neurosecretory granules (synaptophysin, chromogranin) as well as epithelial differentiation (cytokeratins). However, they may present with a wide range of morphological features depending on hormonal or genetic subtype, or as a result of treatment effect. Although called benign, pituitary adenomas can be locally invasive and destructive, or clinically malignant due to the metabolic consequences of excess hormone secretion. Pituitary adenomas are common intracranial neoplasms and may be clinically silent, detected incidentally on MRI scans of the brain (~ 22%), or found at autopsy (~ 14%)(1). It has been estimated that they represent approximately 25% of all clinically manifest intracranial neoplasms. WHO Classification Pituitary adenomas can be classified in various ways, according to size, clinically functional or silent manifestation, hormone or cytokeratin expression profile, defining somatic mutations, and histologic features. The 2004 edition of the WHO classification of endocrine tumours uses markers of cytodifferentiation as the principal classifier. In addition to the category of ‘typical pituitary adenoma’ and ‘pituitary carcinoma’, it also introduced the concept of ‘atypical pituitary adenoma’. However, the latter is controversial (2), as the criteria are to some degree subjective and the clinical significance of ‘atypia’ as currently defined remains to be determined in longitudinal studies (3). The current classification is summarised in Table 3b .1 Table 3b 1 Classification of pituitary adenomas (Adapted from reference (4)) View in own window Adenoma type Transcription Factors
