Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


growth hormone and may also variably express prolactin and less frequently, thyroid-stimulating hormone. Nuclei are strongly immunopositive for Pit1. Ultrastructurally, they contain a well-developed endoplasmic reticulum, a prominent Golgi complex and numerous, large (300-600nm) secretory granules containing growth hormone that are distributed throughout the cytosol. Growth hormone is expressed throughout the lesion. Immunostaining with CAM5.2 antibody against cytokeratin (predominantly cytokeratin 8) reveals a diffuse cytosolic pattern. Figure 3b-2 Normal anterior gland (NG) and somatotroph adenoma (SOMA) interface. This figure illustrates histological principles of distinction of adenoma from normal gland, which may be difficult on routine HE stains (top left), but is greatly aided by a reticulin stain (top and bottom right). The normal adenohypophysis consists of very well demarcated cell nests separated by dense septa. Bottom left: Serial section to the top row images stained for GH. Dashed line: Border between normal gland and adenoma. Figure 3b-3 Densely granulated somatotroph adenoma. Densely granulated adenomas consist of monomorphic cells that are eosinophilic on HE stain (top left) and intensely orangeophilic on PAS-OG histochemistry (top right). They show strong, diffuse GH expression (bottom left) and an evenly distributed, cell-membrane-anchored keratin cytoskeleton (bottom right). Sparsely Granulated Somatotroph Adenoma Sparsely granulated somatotroph adenomas (SGSAs) are less common and are composed of sheets of poorly cohesive, chromophobic cells often containing eccentric, pleiomorphic nuclei. SGSAs are weakly and focally immunopositive for growth hormone and nuclei are immunopositive for Pit1. They may also variably express prolactin and less frequently, thyroid-stimulating hormone. SGSAs contain dense juxtanuclear deposits of low-molecular weight cytokeratin, termed fibrous bodies that appear as pale spherical inclusions on H&E staining and are strongly immunopositive with CAM5.2 antibodies against cytokeratin (predominantly cytokeratin 8). Ultrastructurally, SGSAs contain few, small (100-250nm) growth-hormone containing granules that align along the plasma membrane. The distribution of cytokeratin and growth hormone-containing granules co-segregate with tumour variant type, so the presence of fibrous bodies is a diagnostic feature of SGSA. There is a growing body of evidence that DGSAs and SGSAs behave differently with SGSAs being larger, more common in younger, female patients, more proliferative (higher MIB1 indices) and with a greater capacity to invade surrounding structures (6-11). Some studies have found that SGSAs are more poorly responsive to somatostatin treatment than DGSAs (7) although the extent of the impact of tumour subtype on behaviour is unclear. Figure 3b-4 Sparsely granulated somatotroph adenoma. Sparsely granulated somatotroph adenoma cells are pleomorphic and chromophobe on
