Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


(7) although the extent of the impact of tumour subtype on behaviour is unclear. Figure 3b-4 Sparsely granulated somatotroph adenoma. Sparsely granulated somatotroph adenoma cells are pleomorphic and chromophobe on HE stain (top left) and PAS-OG histochemistry (top right). Fibrous bodies can be seen as pale discs in the cytoplasm on routine stains (arrows). As the name implies, sparsely granulated cells show weak, patchy GH expression (bottom left) and their keratin cytoskeleton is disrupted and condensed into a paranuclear globular structure – the fibrous body (bottom right). Mixed Pattern Somatotroph Adenoma SAs that contain cells of both the densely granulated and sparsely granulated type are not uncommon and if more than 30% of cells differ from the predominant cell type, a diagnosis of mixed pattern is required. Very occasionally, SAs that are not immunopositive for low molecular weight cytokeratin are seen although their clinical significance is not known. Figure 3b-5 Mixed densely and sparsely granulated somatotroph adenoma. A proportion of somatotroph adenomas demonstrate a clearly segregated mixed densely-sparsely phenotype. The respective cells remain true to their ‘pure’ counterparts: The sparsely granulated cells can be identified as chromophobe islands amongst orangeophilic densely granulated cells (left) and their contrasting cytokeratin pattern is absolutely clear following incubation with Cam5.2 antibody (right). Somatotroph Adenoma With Neuronal Differentiation A rare but pathologically intriguing subtype of SA, always associated with acromegaly and usually presenting as macroadenoma with or without hypothalamic involvement, shows sparsely granulated GH-producing cells admixed with large atypical ganglion cells. These resemble tumour cells seen in gangliocytomas and represent truly metaplastic tumour cells, as they express a mixture of lineage markers that otherwise are virtually never co-expressed (synaptophysin, neurofilament, cytokeratin and GH). This is of no known clinical relevance and the mechanisms of transdifferentiation remain unexplored. Figure 3b-6 Sparsely granulated somatotroph adenoma with neuronal metaplasia. Atypical large, neoplastic ganglion cells can be seen in rare sparsely granulated somatotroph adenomas (long arrows). These cells show true metaplasia, expressing GH (top right), neurofilament (bottom left) and cytokeratins (bottom right). Note that both types of intermediate filaments aggregate in fibrous bodies (notched short arrows). Somatostatin Analogue Effect On Somatotroph Adenomas Densely granulated somatotroph adenomas tend to respond better to somatostatin analogue treatment than sparsely granulated tumours. This results in a distinct perivascular hyaline / fibrous reaction. The reaction of somatotroph adenomas to somatostatin analogues is morphologically distinct to that of prolactinomas to dopamine agonists (see figure 3b-9
