Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


results in a distinct perivascular hyaline / fibrous reaction. The reaction of somatotroph adenomas to somatostatin analogues is morphologically distinct to that of prolactinomas to dopamine agonists (see figure 3b-9 later in this chapter). Figure 3b-7 Somatostatin analogue effect in densely granulated somatotroph adenomas. Densely granulated somatotroph adenomas that have responded to somatostatin analogues tend to show perivascular hyaline/fibrous degeneration. Left – untreated, right – treated. Molecular Genetics G protein α-subunit One of the earliest mutations to be associated with sporadic somatotroph adenomas was at the GNAS complex locus. This locus contains four alternative promoters and 5’ exons and has a complex, imprinted expression pattern. Different isoforms of the G protein alpha subunit arise as a result of alternative splicing. The GNAS gene encodes the G protein alpha subunit Gsα, which couples seven-transmembrane receptors to adenylyl cyclase (12). Mutation at either Arg201 or Gln227, destroys GTPase activity (13). Gsα mutation leads to constitutive activation of adenylyl cyclase (termed the gsp oncogene) resulting in increased cAMP synthesis. Mutations in GNAS have been identified in 15-58% of somatotroph adenomas (6,8,11,13-19) (6,8,11,13-19)This mutation may promote tumorigenesis since cAMP can function as a mitogenic signal. The functional implications of gsp mutation are not determined. Elevated cAMP may be countered by increases in the activity of phosphodiesterase enzymes (PDEs) especially PDE4, which is 7-fold more active in adenomas with a mutation in Gsα. Inhibition of this enzyme resulted in an increase in cellular cAMP (20). However, the effect of Gsα mutation on downstream target genes induced by CREB is uncertain and although increases in the expression of these genes were observed in some cases, they were not consistent (21). No association was observed between mutation in gsp and the granulation pattern of somatotroph adenomas (6,8,22) Ghrelin And Receptor There is growing evidence to suggest a role for ghrelin in somatotroph adenomas. Ghrelin (GHS) is a growth hormone secretagogue that acts on the pituitary and has been associated with increased cell migration and proliferation in certain cancers (23,24). Two forms of the ghrelin receptor (GHSR) GHSR1α and the non-functional splice-variant GHSR1β which contains all of exon 1 and some of the following intron are differentially expressed in normal somatotrophs compared to somatotroph adenomas, although there is disagreement concerning which isoform mRNA is more abundant in adenomas compared to normal pituitary (25,26). In different studies, GHSR1α mRNA has been shown to be both reduced (27) and increased
