Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


disagreement concerning which isoform mRNA is more abundant in adenomas compared to normal pituitary (25,26). In different studies, GHSR1α mRNA has been shown to be both reduced (27) and increased (28) in somatotroph adenomas that have a GNAS mutation compared to wild type adenomas. It is unclear whether GHS/GHSR1α. expression is related to adenoma subtype. Somatostatin receptor Differing expression of the somatostatin receptor between adenoma subtypes has been observed and this pattern can be influenced by somatostatin analogue (SSA) treatment. A positive correlation has been observed between SSTR2 expression and reduction in GH after SSA treatment (19,29,30). Greater expression of SSTR2 has also been associated with densely granulated adenomas (31), while SSTR5 was associated with sparsely granulated tumours (15,22,30). One study suggests that the proportion of cells expressing SSTR2 is a more reliable indicator of response to SSA than overall expression level (7,32) Aryl hydrocarbon interacting protein Mutations in AIP associated with FIPA are covered elsewhere (Section 11a1, Stiles and Korbonits). Mutations in AIP (aryl hydrocarbon interacting protein) are most frequently associated with somatotroph adenomas. They are generally truncations or nonsense mutations leading to loss of function, which has resulted in the classification of AIP as a tumour suppressor gene, although the mechanism by which it functions is not yet known. Consistent with its purported tumour suppressor role, multiple different mutations are seen in AIP, with some “hotspots” (33-41). Among patients with acromegaly, germline mutation in AIP is rare, but is relatively more common in the young; the reported incidence of AIP mutations in sporadic somatotroph adenomas varies from 4.2% (patients < 40 years) (42) to 5.5-13% (patients <30 years) (43,44). Mutation in AIP in somatotroph adenomas is associated with larger tumours and more invasive behaviour and more recurrences (45). Furthermore patients with AIP mutations are relatively resistant to treatment with somatostatin analogues although the mechanism of this resistance remains to be clarified (35,39). Treatment with SSAs leads to and is associated with upregulation of AIP expression, (34,46). The mechanism for this upregulation is not fully understood, but some authors have proposed that it is ZAC1- (zinc finger regulator of apoptosis and cell cycle arrest) mediated. ZAC1 induces G1 cell cycle arrest and apoptosis (47-49). Low levels of AIP expression have been linked to tumour invasiveness (46) suggesting that patients with AIP mutation require more stringent follow-up. Gpr101 Mutations And X-Lag A study of early childhood onset gigantism with growth
