Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


size, invasiveness, GH and IGF-1 levels and poor acute response to SSAs (55). A regulator of alternative splicing that promotes the epithelial phenotype (ESRP1) was found to be expressed at much lower levels in tumours that did not express E-cadherin (56). The role of ESRP1 in somatotroph adenomas is yet to be clarified, but tumours expressing low levels of ESRP1 also expressed low levels of proteins involved in regulation of the SNARE complex, vesicle trafficking and calcium signalling (56). Somatotroph Adenomas Are Not Associated With Recurrent Genetic Alterations Whole genome and exome sequencing of somatotroph adenomas has not identified recurrent genetic alterations other than those in Gsα. Pathway analysis has suggested that mutation events were associated with the cAMP pathway and calcium signalling pathway (57,58). PRL-PRODUCING ADENOMA Definition A Pit-1-lineage derived adenoma expressing mostly prolactin and containing characteristic ultrastructural secretory granules demonstrating ‘misplaced exocytosis’. Pathology Lactotroph adenomas are the most common hormone-secreting pituitary adenomas. Two types are distinguished according to their granularity – sparsely and densely granulated. A third, very rare subtype, is the so-called acidophil stem cell adenoma. Prolactinomas in women are often detected at younger age and smaller size than in men. This has been attributed to the clinical syndrome associated with these tumours in women, but some observations suggest that lactotroph macroadenomas in men may be biologically different and behave more aggressively. The typical functional lactotroph adenoma consists of sheets of either acidophilic or chromophobe cells, which are smaller than in other adenomas (even in patients not exposed to dopaminergic agonists). In drug-responders morphological effects may be striking, resulting in reduced granularity, shrunken cytoplasm and condensed, hyperchromatic nuclei. Most tumours are of the sparsely granulated subtype characterised by chromophobe cytoplasm and restriction of prolactin immunohistochemistry to the Golgi apparatus, resulting in a polarised or cap-like prolactin pattern. Densely granulated tumours show a diffuse pattern and are acidophil. The sparsely granulated tumour may be associated with spherical calcifications (psammoma bodies) or amyloid deposition. The acidophil stem-cell adenoma is rare and its nosological status remains to be further defined. It shows eosinophilia on H&E due to accumulation of mitochondria (oncocytic change) and distinct clear cytoplasmic vacuoles may be seen on light microscopy. Occasional perinuclear dot-like fibrous bodies may be seen with cytokeratin stains. The acidophil stem-cell adenoma is considered to be more prone to recurrence than other adenomas. Figure 3b-8 Prolactinoma with atypia and resistance to dopamine agonist treatment.
