Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


seen with cytokeratin stains. The acidophil stem-cell adenoma is considered to be more prone to recurrence than other adenomas. Figure 3b-8 Prolactinoma with atypia and resistance to dopamine agonist treatment. Prolactinomas consist of sheets of relatively small, monomorphic cells (top left) with a cap-like (‘Golgi-pattern’) staining for prolactin (top right). Most pituitary adenomas of any lineage, including lactotroph adenomas, do not show any mitotic figure in routine stains. Some lactotroph adenomas in men can be resistant to dopamine agonists and histologically atypical, as in this example: Mitotic figures are common, the Ki67/MIB-1 proliferation index is high (10-20% [usually <3%], bottom left) and nuclear p53 is overexpressed (bottom right). This indicates a high likelihood of tumour recurrence if incompletely excised (as proved to be the case in this instance). Figure 3b-9 Histology of dopamine agonist response in a prolactinoma. Bromocriptine treated prolactinomas respond with characteristic dense fibrosis and condensation of the cytoplasm and nucleus of the neoplastic cells. Left – untreated, right treated. Molecular Genetics To date, no mutational events have been unequivocally associated with prolactinomas. However, management of prolactinomas is predominantly medical, using dopamine agonists, with a high proportion of patients achieving disease control or remission, so surgery is not often indicated. Consequently, surgical specimens are few and represent patients who do not tolerate or respond to medical treatment. These tumours are likely to have acquired multiple alterations that allow escape from apoptosis or unrestrained replicative potential which could complicate analysis of mechanisms involved in dopamine agonist-responsive PRLomas. Oestrogen Receptor Aib1 And Aromatase A significant correlation between oestrogen receptor ERα mRNA and PRL level, tumour volume and TGFβ1 mRNA was observed in prolactinomas (59), suggesting a role for both ERα and TGFβ1 in prolactinoma tumorigenesis, but the mechanism by which this may occur is unclear. AIB1 (Amplified in breast cancer) is a member of the p160/SRC family of nuclear co-activators and is a co-activator of the oestrogen receptor. It integrates extracellular signals from growth factors and – through MAPK activation - relays them to the oestrogen receptor, enhancing its transcriptional activity (60). Overexpression of AIB1 was observed in prolactinomas and was associated with expression of ERα and aromatase. In addition, subcellular distribution of AIB1 was linked to cell cycle phase and viability. Nuclear AIB1 expression correlated with nuclear PCNA (a marker of cell proliferation) and cytosolic expression correlated with caspase-3 activation (a marker of apoptosis) (61). Increased expression of aromatase
