Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


and viability. Nuclear AIB1 expression correlated with nuclear PCNA (a marker of cell proliferation) and cytosolic expression correlated with caspase-3 activation (a marker of apoptosis) (61). Increased expression of aromatase cytochrome P450 (an enzyme that converts androgens to oestrogens) was observed in prolactinoma relative to normal pituitary but its expression did not correlate with resistance to dopamine agonists or remission (62). Dopamine Receptor And Downstream Signalling Dopamine agonists are the first choice of treatment for PRLomas and act by increasing the inhibition of prolactin release mediated by dopamine signalling. The major dopamine receptors expressed in pituitary are D1R (adenylyl cyclase-stimulating) and D2R (adenylyl cyclase- inhibiting). Expression of D2R is more prevalent. The dopamine receptor D2 is expressed as long (D2L) and short (D2S) isoforms, with D2L being the predominant isoform. In patients who were poor responders and those with secondary DA resistance, levels of D2L were significantly reduced (63). The molecular mechanism of resistance to dopamine agonists is not fully understood. There have been no reported mutations in dopamine receptors in prolactinoma, however, studies have been few (64). Downregulation of the dopamine receptor (D2R) and alterations in the downstream signalling pathway are thought to be involved (65) and binding of PREB (prolactin regulatory element-binding protein) has been shown to be essential for dopamine-mediated inhibition of PRL gene expression – mutation of the PREB consensus sequence in the PRL promoter of GH3 cells prevented cabergoline-induced suppression of PRL expression (66). Further support for the role of dopamine receptor in DA resistance came from studies in mice. In xenografts of prolactin-secreting GH3 cells, those overexpressing the short form of the dopamine receptor (D2S) showed increased sensitivity to bromocriptine in the form of reduced tumour growth (67). Filamin –A (FLNA) is a cytoskeletal protein that is widely expressed and associates with D2R. FLNA is important for D2R signalling and targeting. In PRLomas with differing responses to DAs, the effect of FLNA on D2R expression and signalling was investigated. Silencing of FLNA in DA-sensitive PRLoma primary cultures resulted in reduced D2R expression and signalling, which could be restored by FLNA overexpression, however, in cells that do not express D2R, overexpression of FLNA did not induce D2R expression, suggesting a more complex mechanism of regulation of D2R expression and signalling (68). Nerve Growth Factor A series of studies of PRLomas that were totally resistant to DA therapy and lacked D2 receptors expressed NGFR (nerve growth
