Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


of D2R expression and signalling (68). Nerve Growth Factor A series of studies of PRLomas that were totally resistant to DA therapy and lacked D2 receptors expressed NGFR (nerve growth factor receptor) and cells from these tumours could be induced to differentiate and express D2R upon NGF treatment, furthermore, this expression persisted after cessation of NGF treatment, a feature that was accompanied by reduced tumour growth (69). In female patients with microprolactinoma, hyperprolactinaemia correlated with increased serum NGF, suggesting that release of both molecules is regulated by a D2R-mediated mechanism (70). Further insight into the mechanism of NGF-mediated suppression of DA-resistant PRLoma growth came from the observation that in DA-resistant cells, p53 adopted a different conformation that prevented its nuclear translocation. Treatment with NGF restored p52 conformation and DNA-binding ability, an effect mediated by trkA through activation of PI-3-K (71). Egfr Receptor Family Signalling through ErbB and other EGFR family tyrosine kinase receptors occurs upstream of PRL synthesis. The subtype and distribution of expression of these receptors was correlated with therapeutic reduction of prolactin levels in DA resistant prolactinomas in patients receiving lapatinib treatment. Increased expression of ErbB3 was associated with optic chiasm compression, suprasellar extension and carotid artery encasement. Higher ErbB3 expression was also associated with increased response to DA therapy (72) High mobility group A2 (HMGA2) is an abundant, non-histone DNA-binding protein that mediates the assembly of nucleoprotein complexes involved in the determination of chromatin architecture, transcriptional regulation and RNA processing. HMGA2 is involved in many aspects of cell function, including proliferation and tumour progression, but the exact role of HMGA2 is still not understood (reviewed in (50,73)). The HMGA2 gene was found to be amplified and overexpressed in PRLomas, which often have trisomy of chromosome 12 (containing the HMGA2 gene) (74,75). HMGA2 is thought to promote the activity of transcription factor E2F1, which is required for entry of cells into S-phase. In non-proliferating cells, this activity is repressed by interaction of E2F1 with retinoblastoma protein (pRB) (67). Expression of HMGA2 and HMGA1B have been shown to correlate with expression of PIT1, a transcription factor that regulates expression of PRL (along with GH, GHRHR and Pit1 itself), HMGA2 and HMGA1B bind the Pit1 promoter and enhance Pit1 expression, implicating HMGA2 (and HMGA1B) in pituitary tumorigenesis (76). E-cadherin, α, β and γ catenins and p120 An immunohistochemical comparison of the expression of E-cadherin, α, β and γ catenins and
