Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


implicating HMGA2 (and HMGA1B) in pituitary tumorigenesis (76). E-cadherin, α, β and γ catenins and p120 An immunohistochemical comparison of the expression of E-cadherin, α, β and γ catenins and p120 in normal pituitary, indolent and invasive prolactinomas showed that expression of these proteins was membranous and strong in normal pituitary, decreased in prolactinoma and markedly decreased or absent in invasive prolactinoma, with the exception of γ-catenin, which was expressed more highly in invasive prolactinoma (77). The expression of E-cadherin was inversely proportional to invasiveness, proliferation index (Ki67) and tumour size in prolactinoma. E-cadherin is a suppressor of invasion and participates in the formation of adherens junctions and a decrease in its expression is often seen associated with tumour invasiveness (reviewed in (78,79)). Micro Rna In Prolactinomas Little is known about the involvement of miRNAs in prolactinoma pathogenesis. A study examining the expression profiles of miRNAs in prolactinomas that had been treated with bromocriptine or were treatment naïve showed upregulation of miR-206, miR-516b and miR-550 and downregulation of miR-671-5p was shown to be associated with bromocriptine treatment (80). A study examining miRNA expression profiles in bromocriptine-resistant and bromocriptine-sensitive prolactinomas showed that resistance was associated with increased expression of Hsa-mir-93, hsa-mir-17, hsa-mir-22*, hsa-mir-126*, hsa-mir-142-3p, hsa-mir-144*, hsa-mir-486-5p, hsa-mir-451, and hsa-mir-92a and decreased expression of hsa-mir-30a, hsa-mir-382, and hsa-mir-136 (81). The functional significance of this change in expression pattern is not understood, but silencing of mir-93 was shown to suppress p21 expression. THS-PRODUCING ADENOMA Definition A Pit-1-lineage derived neoplasm that mostly expresses TSH and contains typical TSH-type granules on electron microscopy. Pathology Thyrotroph adenomas are rare (~1% of all pituitary adenomas). They arise usually in the 5 th decade and present as functional macroadenomas resulting in diffuse goitre and hyperthyroidism. Longstanding primary hypothyroidism may lead to thyrotroph adenomas via thyrotroph hyperplasia. Histologically they comprise sheets of angulated or elongated, chromophobe cells, often accompanied by fibrosis. Staining for beta-TSH is usually patchy; tumour cells also express GATA-2 and Pit-1. Figure 3b-10 Histology of thyrotroph adenoma. These rare tumours contain interlacing, relatively plump spindle cells (left) with strong, patchy TSH expression (right). Molecular Genetics The pathogenetic mechanisms of thyroid-hormone-producing adenomas (TSHomas) are not well understood. This may be in part due to the rarity of the lesion (thyrotroph adenomas are estimated to represent 1-3% of pituitary adenomas (82)). No mutations have so far been associated with TSHomas. Experiments that sequenced TSHomas show no mutations in
