Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


the lesion (thyrotroph adenomas are estimated to represent 1-3% of pituitary adenomas (82)). No mutations have so far been associated with TSHomas. Experiments that sequenced TSHomas show no mutations in G-protein subunits or the TRH receptor (83) . Pit 1 is overexpressed in these tumours, but not mutated. Expression of somatostatin receptors SSTR2A and SSTR5 was found in TSHomas (31). A high ratio of expression of SSTR5 to SSTR2 might indicate a better response to long-term treatment with somatostatin analogues in TSHomas (84,85) but this is not a consistent finding (86). ACTH-PRODUCING ADENOMA Definition Corticotroph pituitary adenomas are Tpit-lineage derived tumours producing ACTH stored in ultrastructurally typical ACTH granules. They are the defining neoplasms of Cushing’s disease. Pathology Corticotroph adenomas associated with manifest Cushing’s disease are composed of deeply basophilic (PAS-positive) cells with granular cytoplasm and round nuclei; these comprise the densely granulated subtype of ACTH adenoma. Most tumours arise in women in the 4 th or 5 th decade (F:M = 8:1); prepubertal tumours are rare and equally distributed between the sexes, with a slight male predominance. Sparsely granulated tumours are weakly basophilic or chromophobe, and individuals may lack an overt Cushing’s phenotype (‘silent corticotroph adenomas’). The cytokeratin pattern in typical Cushing’s adenomas is diffuse. However, rare neoplasms may display ‘Crooke’s hyaline change’, classically interpreted as a morphological manifestation of intact feedback inhibition by excess systemic cortisol on non-neoplastic corticotrophs. This change is therefore seen in intact acini adjacent to a typical corticotroph adenoma and results in a ring-like accumulation of cytokeratins. If present in many adenoma cells, these tumours are called ‘Crooke’s cell adenomas’, possibly representing a subgroup with an adverse outcome and silent presentation. Immunohistochemistry of all corticotroph adenomas shows strong nuclear T-pit positivity. Densely granulated tumours show strong diffuse cytoplasmic ACTH expression, whilst chromophobe tumours show only patchy positivity. Following detection of somatic Usp8 mutations in a subgroup of ACTH-producing adenomas (see below), it has been suggested that nuclear translocation of Usp8 may represent an immunohistochemically detectable surrogate marker of these mutations (87). USP8-mutated corticotroph adenomas are more commonly microadenomas compared to USP8-wild-type Cushing’s adenomas. The ‘minimal pathological unit’ of Cushing’s disease is corticotroph hyperplasia. This is defined as a distention of normal adenohypophyseal acini by a homogeneous population of corticotrophs that does not lead to complete breakdown of the acinar reticulin border. The described morphological entities associated with Cushing’s disease are illustrated below in figures
