Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


a homogeneous population of corticotrophs that does not lead to complete breakdown of the acinar reticulin border. The described morphological entities associated with Cushing’s disease are illustrated below in figures 3b-11 to 3b-14. Figure 3b-11 Histology of corticotroph hyperplasia causing Cushing’s disease. Note distended but still intact reticulin network of hyperplastic pituitary acini (left) populated by a homogeneous population of deeply basophilic cells (center) expressing ACTH (right). Figure 3b-12 Histology of a corticotroph microadenoma. These (often USP8-mutated) Cushing’s adenomas represent microscopic nodules well-demarcated from normal gland (NG). Reticulin stain is often essential for their detection (top left) and discrimination from corticotroph hyperplasia: a corticotroph adenoma results in completed destruction of the reticulin network as seen here (right side of the dashed line in top left image). Typical Cushing’s adenomas are deeply basophilic (top right) and show strong diffuse ACTH positivity (bottom left) and an intact keratin cytoskeleton (bottom right). Figure 3b-13 Crooke’s hyaline change in non-neoplastic corticotroph cells in response to hypercortisolaemia. The physiological response of normal corticotrophs to exposure of excess cortisol (of any source, neoplastic or iatrogenic) is downregulation of ACTH synthesis and development of hyaline, cytokeratin-rich perinuclear rings: Crooke’s hyaline degeneration (named after the English endocrinologist Arthur Carleton Crooke). Figure 3b-14 Histology of Crooke’s cell adenoma. In these corticotroph adenomas Crooke’s cell change is seen in the tumour cells, rather than non-neoplastic corticotrophs. This is clearly evident in PAS-OG histochemistry, where the hyaline ring displaces the deeply basophilic granules (left). It is also reflected in the dense ring-like cytokeratin pattern (right). Molecular Genetics ACTH-producing adenomas causing Cushing’s disease are associated with both an excess of corticotroph releasing hormone (CRH) and a loss of negative feedback inhibition by glucocorticoids. However, no mutations in either the CRH receptor or the glucocorticoid receptor have been reported. USP8 Exome sequencing of corticotroph adenomas from patients with Cushing’s disease revealed recurrent heterozygous somatic mutations in the deubiquitinase USP8 in one third of cases (87,88), although one study has estimated the prevalence to be 62% (89). Mutations were clustered within the 14-3-3 binding motif of USP8: a highly evolutionarily conserved region that is rarely mutated in other human cancers. Mutations in USP8 were found to be more common in adult than paediatric cases and more common in females than males (ratio 5:2). Patients with a USP8 mutation were less likely to develop postoperative adrenal insufficiency (88). Tumours with a mutation in USP8 were
