Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


and more common in females than males (ratio 5:2). Patients with a USP8 mutation were less likely to develop postoperative adrenal insufficiency (88). Tumours with a mutation in USP8 were also found to be smaller and to produce more ACTH than their wild-type counterparts (89) USP8 is a ubiquitin-specific protease that regulates the fate of numerous cellular proteins. Conjugated ubiquitin molecules target a protein for degradation and these modifications are removed by deubiquitinases (DUBs). USP8 specifically targets the pathway whereby activated EGFR is targeted for lysosomal degradation and leads to increased cellular concentrations of EGFR and sustained levels of EGFR signalling. However, one study of 60 corticotroph adenomas did not find any association between USP8 mutation and EGFR expression; there was, however significantly higher expression of POMC, SSTR5 and MGMT (90). Binding of 14-3-3 proteins to Usp8 has a suppressive effect and so mutations in the 14-3-3 binding motif of USP8 that perturb this interaction lead to a gain of function of USP8 and increased EGFR signalling. Additionally, mutations in the 14-3-3 binding motif that abrogate 14-3-3 binding result in exposure of a cleavage site and an increase in proteolytic cleavage of USP8 between Lys714 and Arg715. This results in a shorter 40kDa C-terminal fragment of USP8 with increased deubiquitinase activity. Mutant USP8 also results in increased activation of the POMC promoter in the AtT-20 corticotroph adenoma mouse cell line. Cyclins And Cyclin-Dependent Kinases A study investigating the role of cell-cycle regulators and related transcription factors in ACTH-secreting and silent corticotroph adenomas found that CDKN2A expression was four times greater in ACTH-expressing than silent corticotroph adenomas, while cyclins D1, E1 and B1 were suppressed. It is suggested that the upregulation of a cell-cycle inhibitor combined with the downregulation of cyclins may restrict growth of ACTH-producing adenomas compared to their silent counterparts (91). 11β-Hydroxysteroid Dehydrogenase Cortisol and inactive cortisone are interconverted by 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase. This enzyme exists as two isoforms: 11β-HSD1 and 11β-HSD2. Studies investigating the expression ratio of these two isoforms in ACTH-expressing adenomas found that Isoform 1 is downregulated in ACTHomas and 2 is upregulated compared to normal pituitary (92). The role of increased expression of 11β-HSD2 in ACTHoma tumorigenesis is unclear and findings are inconsistent (93). Somatostatin Receptors A comparison of the expression of somatostatin receptor subtypes SSTR2 and SSTR5 in silent corticotroph adenomas and adenomas responsible for Cushing’s disease showed that mRNA encoding SSTR1 and 2 was
