Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


A comparison of the expression of somatostatin receptor subtypes SSTR2 and SSTR5 in silent corticotroph adenomas and adenomas responsible for Cushing’s disease showed that mRNA encoding SSTR1 and 2 was expressed in greater quantities in silent corticotrophs (SSTR2 5-fold increase), whereas in Cushing’s disease, SSTR5 was expressed more highly (14-fold increase) (94). Although the implications of this difference in expression are not fully understood, it may be that treatments that selectively target SSTR5 could be useful for ACTHoma treatment. In a series of ACTH-secreting pituitary adenomas, levels of miR-26a were assessed by RT-qPCR. This micro-RNA was upregulated in all ACTHomas compared to normal pituitary. The putative target of this miRNA, PRKCD, was downregulated in tumours with elevated miR-26a (95). PRKCD encodes protein kinase C delta, a serine/threonine kinase involved in a diverse range of signalling pathways including regulation of growth, apoptosis and differentiation. GONADOTROPHIN-PRODUCING ADENOMA Definition Pituitary adenomas derived from SF-1 expressing adenohypophyseal cells producing mainly FSH or LH and typical secretory granules. Pathology Classic gonadotroph adenomas are chromophobe adenomas with a growth pattern that may include papillae and perivascular pseudorosettes. Although all tumour cells express nuclear SF-1, FSH and LH are restricted to clusters of cells often demonstrating striking polarisation towards vascular lumina in well-differentiated examples. Gonadotroph adenomas are usually endocrinologically silent and therefore present as macroadenomas with compression of the optic chiasm or invasion of the cavernous sinus. They are often called non-functioning adenomas (NFAs) but it should be noted that adenomas of other lineages may also be clinically ‘non-functional’ (e.g. silent corticotroph or somatotroph adenomas). Rare functionally active tumours in females of reproductive age may be associated with ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome. Figure 3 b-15.1+15.2: MRI and macroscopic pathology of gonadotroph pituitary macroadenomas. Gonadotroph adenomas are usually clinically silent and thus tend to present as space occupying lesions compressing the optic chiasm, pituitary stalk or hypothalamus. 3b-15.1: Sagittal MRI (left) and post-mortem view of the same tumour. Note the suprasellar extension and compression of the hypothalamus. 3b-15.2: Two further gonadotroph macroadenomas seen in situ in the skull base (left) and the base of the brain (right) compressing the optic chiasm. Note in the left image the anatomical relationship to the sphenoid wings, right optic nerve and basal vessels of the brain (one of which is stuck to the rostral surface of the macroadenoma). The adenoma (asterisk) in the right image has grown through the diaphragma sellae and therefore
