Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


of the brain (one of which is stuck to the rostral surface of the macroadenoma). The adenoma (asterisk) in the right image has grown through the diaphragma sellae and therefore is attached to dura mater – which is used to pull the adenoma away from the chiasmatic cistern to reveal the chiasm (arrow) and optic nerves. Figure 3b-16 Histology of a gonadotroph (non-functioning) adenoma. In their typical form these adenomas have a distinct architecture comprising perivascular rosettes of neuroendocrine cells with a distinct polarity of their processes towards the vascular lumen (left) and always patchy and focal, rather than diffuse expression of FSH and LH (right). Note a rare mitosis in the HE image (left, arrow). Molecular Genetics Micorarray studies comparing functional gonadotroph tumours to normal post mortem pituitary found that downstream p53 target genes RPRM, p21/CDKN1A and PMAIP1 were consistently downregulated (96). These genes are mediators of cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Members of the GADD45 family were differentially expressed, with GADD45β downregulated in gonadotroph adenomas compared to normal gland. Overexpression of GADD45β in gonadotroph cells inhibited proliferation and activated apoptosis in the absence of growth factor, however, the authors found no evidence of hypermethylation of GADD45β (96) and so the mechanism of downregulation remains unknown. A whole-exome sequencing study of histologically typical, clinically non-functioning gonadotroph adenomas revealed 24 somatic variants in independent genes, none of which were recurrent. There were no mutations that had been previously associated with pituitary tumorigenesis and the authors conclude that mechanisms other than somatic mutation may be involved in sporadic NFPA tumorigenesis (74). NULL CELL ADENOMA Definition Null cell adenomas are neoplasms derived from adenohypophyseal endocrine cells that cannot be assigned to any specific subtype based on transcription factor, hormone or ultrastructural features. Pathology These tumours are chromophobe and show usually a diffuse growth pattern. Increasing sensitivity and specificity of immunohistochemical techniques for detection of pituitary transcription factors and hormones make this a shrinking diagnostic subgroup. Distinction of this subtype from rare endocrine tumours not derived from adenohypophyseal cells (paraganglioma, metastatic endocrine carcinoma) is important but can be difficult. Molecular Genetics As tumours previously designated ‘null-cell’ or ‘non-functioning’ may actually represent SF-1 lineage tumours, interpretation of molecular studies is difficult. A study examining the expression of E-cadherin (CDH1), slug (SNAI2) and oestrogen receptor ERα and ERβ in invasive compared to non-invasive non-functioning pituitary adenomas (NFPAs) showed that E-cadherin is downregulated in more invasive
