Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


the expression of E-cadherin (CDH1), slug (SNAI2) and oestrogen receptor ERα and ERβ in invasive compared to non-invasive non-functioning pituitary adenomas (NFPAs) showed that E-cadherin is downregulated in more invasive tumours, while its repressor, slug, is upregulated. Expression of slug was positively correlated with ERα expression, while E-cadherin was positively correlated with ERβ expression. The relevance of these findings for patient prognosis and treatment has yet to be determined (75). MicroRNA profiling of NFPAs compared to normal pituitary showed that miRNAs predicted to target components of the TGFβ signalling pathway and result in their downregulation are overexpressed. This pathway is known to have a role in tumorigenesis, but the nature of its role in the pathogenesis of NFPAs is not well understood (97). Another pathway commonly disrupted in tumorigenesis, the Notch signalling pathway was investigated in NFPAs. Upregulation of Notch3 (a regulator of cell proliferation and apoptosis) and its ligand, Jagged1, was observed in NFPAs compared to normal gland. Owing to the complexity of Notch pathway regulation, the consequence of this upregulation is not yet clear (98,99). The pathogenic mechanisms of NFPAs are largely unclear and targeted treatments are not available. PITUITARY CARCINOMA Definition Pituitary carcinoma is defined as a neoplasm of adenohypophyseal endocrine cells with cerebrospinal or systemic dissemination. Pathology Pituitary carcinoma is very rare, comprising approximately ~0.2% of operated pituitary neoplasms. Most pituitary carcinomas develop from recurrent endocrinologically functioning, invasive macroadenomas with a highly variable lag period. The majority represents corticotroph or lactotroph neoplasms. Bilateral adrenalectomy in the setting of Cushing’s syndrome with an undetected pituitary microadenoma may predispose to pituitary carcinoma (Nelson’s syndrome). It has also been suggested that silent corticotroph adenomas or Crooke’s cell adenomas may pose a risk, but data are scant. Histologically, pituitary carcinomas may show remarkably little pleomorphism; however, an increased MIB-1 index and p53 overexpression are usually present. Despite the introduction of the ‘atypical pituitary adenoma’ category, no reliable diagnostic markers are available that allow prediction of carcinomatous behaviour before dissemination has occurred. The prognosis is poor once systemic metastases are present. Treatment with temozolomide should be considered. Molecular Genetics Molecular studies of pituitary carcinomas are scant, presumably due to the rarity of the lesion. One study has observed a mutation in H-ras in a PRL-producing carcinoma. Unlike other pituitary tumours, pituitary carcinomas show aggressive tendencies and metastasise (100). A microarray study comparing expression levels in pituitary adenomas relative to an ACTH
