Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


H-ras in a PRL-producing carcinoma. Unlike other pituitary tumours, pituitary carcinomas show aggressive tendencies and metastasise (100). A microarray study comparing expression levels in pituitary adenomas relative to an ACTH pituitary carcnioma identified the LGALS3 (galactin 3) gene as being upregulated in pituitary carcinomas (101) PITUITARY BLASTOMA Definition Pituitary blastoma is a rare pediatric neoplasm of the anterior gland composed of primitive follicular structures of endocrine cells admixed with folliculo-stellate cells. It is pathognomonic of germline DICER1 syndrome or pleuropulmonary blastoma-familial tumor and dysplasia syndrome [online Mendelian inheritance in man (OMIM) #601200] (102) Pathology Tumours are variably cellular, likely reflecting different degrees of maturation, and consist of cells arranged in rosettes and glandular structures reminiscent of Rathke’s epithelium, undifferentiated cells (blastema) and larger granular (secretory cells) (103). Ultrastructurally FS-like cells may also be seen. There is usually ACTH-positivity in a few cells and GH may also be seen. Mitoses are present but the MIB-1 index may be very variable. The designation as ‘blastoma’ reflects the original view that these tumours are highly malignant with a natural history similar to other embryonal neoplasms; however, more recent evidence suggests that the prognosis is not uniformly poor (102). Figure 3b-17 Histology of a pituitary blastoma. These are primitive tumours resembling ‘small-blue round-cell’ neoplasms. Reproduced from Acta Neuropathologica ”Pituitary blastoma: a pathognomonic feature of germ-line DICER1 mutations” volume 128, 2014 pages 111-122 de Kock L, et al . (102) with permission of Springer. Fig. 3a case 13, T1-weighted post-contrast midline sagittal MR image showing pituitary region mass (red arrow). b case 4, hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining ×250: three enlarged follicles lined by stem cells. c Immunohistochemical staining I case 10, growth hormone (GH) immunostaining ×400: enlarged GH/alpha subunit cells immunopositive for GH. II case 10, ACTH immunostaining ×400: small vessel surrounded by stem cells. Some cells display ACTH immunoreactivity Molecular Genetics The precise mechanisms driving tumorigenesis remain to be defined. The morphological evidence of stem-cell-like features of pituitary blastoma cells and known roles of micro RNAs in regulation of stem cell differentiation make it plausible that profound abnormalities in micro RNA profiles following mutations of Dicer, a key regulator of micro RNA maturation, are causative. Mutations occur in highly conserved regions of DICER1, particularly the RNase IIIb domain, resulting in predicted loss of function, following Knudson’s dual hit model. CRANIOPHARYNGIOMA Definition Usually benign, but invasive epithelial lesions of the supra-sellar region or third
