Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


particularly the RNase IIIb domain, resulting in predicted loss of function, following Knudson’s dual hit model. CRANIOPHARYNGIOMA Definition Usually benign, but invasive epithelial lesions of the supra-sellar region or third ventricle that exist as two variants: adamantinomatous and papillary. The variants have distinct clinicopatholoigcal and genetic features which may represent different pathogenic mechanisms. Pathology Craniopharyngiomas occur with an incidence of 0.13 per 100 000 person years. There are two variants: adamantinomatous (aCP) and papillary (pCP) that occur in the ratio ~9:1 with no sex differences. aCP usually occurs in childhood (mean age 5-14 years) while the pCP is almost exclusively seen in adults (mean age 65-74 years). Craniopharyngiomas are complex, epithelial neoplasms that arise in the sellar region along the vestigial craniopharyngeal tract. Although some overlapping features have been observed, the two variants represent clinicopathologically distinct lesions. Adamantinomatous Craniopharyngioma aCPs are located predominantly in the suprasellar region although infrequently they have an intrasellar component. Rare locations include the sphenoid sinus and cerebello-pontine angle. They are multi-lobulated and often multi-cystic masses. On T1 weighted MRI imaging they are hypo- or iso-intense with areas of hyperintensity, corresponding to the cystic components. Enhancement is strong and heterogeneous. Macroscopically, aCP are firm, lobular lesions with an irregular, but sharp interface strongly adherent to and invading surrounding structures. Cyst contents are variable and may contain necrotic or inflammatory debris or a dark, cholesterol-rich fluid resembling motor oil. Calcification is often present. Microscopically, the architecture of aCP shows a well circumscribed, multicystic lesion with finger-like protrusions into surrounding brain parenchyma ( Figure 3 .b.18). The lesion is composed of a peripheral palisading epithelium surrounding a loose core of stellate reticulum. Nodules of anuclear “ghost cells” containing wet keratin are commonly found and are pathognomonic for this tumour type. Near the tumour invading edge, epithelial whorls of cells that often show translocation of beta-catenin from membrane to cytosol/nucleus are common. Degenerative changes include intra-cystic squamous debris, chronic inflammation and the appearance of cholesterol clefts and extensive calcification. These changes can elicit a granulomatous inflammatory response and brain invasion may cause Rosenthal fibre gliosis. Figure 3b-18 Histology of adamantinomatous craniopharyngioma. This highly distinctive neoplasm consists of loosely arranged ‘stellate’ reticular stroma, palisading peripheral epithelium and nodules of ‘ghost’ cells (degenerated keratinocytes, arrow in the left image). Finger-like protrusions of neoplastic epithelium commonly invade the hypothalamic brain parenchyma resulting in a dense, hypereosinophilic Rosenthal fibre gliosis (arrow and bottom
