Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


cells (degenerated keratinocytes, arrow in the left image). Finger-like protrusions of neoplastic epithelium commonly invade the hypothalamic brain parenchyma resulting in a dense, hypereosinophilic Rosenthal fibre gliosis (arrow and bottom half of right image). Figure 3b-19 Histology of adamantinomatous craniopharyngioma – beta-catenin. Nodules or whorls of tinctorially distinct epithelium is often seen in the invading edge of the adamantinomatous subtype (left, black arrow). The cells in these nests demonstrate nuclear translocation of beta-catenin (right, white arrow), indicating activated WNT signalling. Papillary Craniopharyngioma pCPs are located in the suprasellar region or within the third ventricle. They are usually more solid than aCPs but may have a cystic component. On T1-weighted MRI imaging, they appear hypointense with enhancement of the cyst wall. Macroscopically, pCP are discrete, well circumscribed and often solid lesions with little adherence to surrounding structures. When cystic, the cyst contents are clear without cholesterol crystals. Clacification is not seen. Microscopically, pCPs are composed of squamous, well differentiated, non-keratinizing epithelium. There is no stellate reticulum; these lesions have a fibrovascular stroma without a palisading layer. The lesions form pseudopapillae as a result of epithelial dehiscence and do not contain wet keratin. In these lesions, beta-catenin retains its membranous location. There may be scant foci of goblet or ciliated cells that resemble Rathke’s cleft cyst Figure 3b-20 Histology of papillary craniopharyngioma. Papillary craniopharyngiomas lack ’stellate reticular’ stroma and keratin ‘ghost’ cell nests and nodules or whorls in the advancing edge. They have a more solid growth pattern prone to artifactual ‘cracking’ (arrow, left) giving it a (pseudo-) papillary appearance. Figure 3b-21 Histology of papillary craniopharyngioma – beta-catenin and BRAFV600E. Papillary craniopharyngiomas lack any nuclear translocation of beta-catenin; it remains restricted to the adherens junction (left). Instead, the tumours are always positive for mutated BRAFV600E protein (right). Molecular Genetics Two alternate theories have been proposed to explain the pathogenesis of craniopharyngiomas. The embryogenetic theory states that CPs arise from neoplastic transformation of ectopic embryonic remnants of Rathke’s pouch. The metaplastic theory states that differentiated squamous epithelium that forms part of the anterior pituitary or pituitary stalk undergoes metaplastic transformation. In addition, a dual theory has also been proposed that the adamantinomatous type is formed via the embryogenetic mechanism while the papillary type follows the metaplastic route. Mutations have been found in craniopharyngiomas that may co-segregate with subtype. Mutations in exon 3 of CTNNB1 , the gene encoding β-catenin have been observed in
