Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


for three months resulted in significant reduction in tumour volume, but the tumour recurred within 6 weeks upon cessation of treatment (121). The two subtypes of craniopharyngiomas are clinicopathologically distinct, but do have some overlapping features. This observation has led to the hypothesis that craniopharyngiomas fall on a histopathological continuum with other cystic epithelial sellar lesions (109,122-124). It has been suggested that papillary craniopharyngiomas represent an intermediate entity between Rathke’s cleft cysts and adamantinomatous craniopharyngiomas, as they have been found to contain ciliated epithelial cells and goblet cells characteristic of Rathke’s cleft cysts (122,125-127). Craniopharyngiomas, particularly the papillary form, can arise after treatment for Rathke’s cleft cysts although the possibility of coexisting lesions cannot be excluded (128,129). RATHKE’S CLEFT CYST Definition A benign, non-neoplastic epithelial cyst arising from accumulation of mucinous material in remnants of Rathke’s pouch. Pathology Classical Rathke’s cleft cysts consist of a monolayer of cuboidal cells on with microvilli and scattered columnar and goblet cells. Cyst contents consist usually of amorphous eosinophilic material. Squamous metaplasia of the lining epithelium is common and may result in the differential diagnosis of craniopharyngioma. Xanthogranulomas with chronic inflammation and cholesterol crystals may also occur. Rathke’s cleft cysts have no neoplastic potential but may recur following incomplete excision. Figure 3b-22 Histology of Rathke’s cleft cyst. Symptomatic Rathke’s cleft cysts are lined by a ciliated epithelium (top left) that is cytokeratin-positive (top right) and often contains PAS-positive vacuoles (bottom left). It often undergoes attenuation or squamous metaplasia (bottom right). DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS OF CYSTIC LESIONS A series of observations that note similarities between cystic sellar lesions has led to the hypothesis that there exists a histopathological continuum that includes epithelial, epidermoid and dermoid cysts, Rathke’s cleft cysts and both papillary and adamantinomatous craniopharyngiomas (109,122,125,130,131). Although experimental evidence is lacking there are reports of transitional lesions that lend support to this idea. Due to the rarity of these lesions and the paucity of material available for study, so far no genetic event has been unequivocally associated with the development of non-neoplastic cystic lesions arising in the sellar region. Immunohistochemistry and sequencing for BRAFV600E mutations in Rathke’s cleft cysts was negative (132). TUMOURS OF THE NEUROHYPOPYSIS: GRANULAR CELL TUMOUR, PITUICYTOMA, SPINDLE CELL ONCOCYTOMA: TTF-1 FAMILY OF PITUITARY NEOPLASMS Definition Rare endocrinologically silent neoplasms of the posterior pituitary or infundibulum that share the expression of thyroid-transcription factor 1 (TTF-1). Pathology The neurohypophysis is derived from the floor
