Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


PITUITARY NEOPLASMS Definition Rare endocrinologically silent neoplasms of the posterior pituitary or infundibulum that share the expression of thyroid-transcription factor 1 (TTF-1). Pathology The neurohypophysis is derived from the floor of the diencephalon. The development of its specialised glial cells, termed pituicytes, is controlled in part by the expression of TTF-1, which is maintained throughout adulthood. Pituicytes are thought to provide structural and functional support for the axonal processes and neurosecretory terminals of oxytocin and vasopressin producing cells whose cell bodies are located in the hypothalamus. Electron microscopic studies have suggested that there are five different types of pituicytes, which (simplified) can be described as: light, dark, granular, ependymal and oncocytic (133). Neoplastic transformation of these cells is thought to give rise to three distinct neoplasms, termed granular cell tumour, pituicytoma and spindle cell oncocytoma. However, the precise relationship of these lesions remains to be defined, as some studies suggest that the spindle cell oncocytoma is arising from folliculo-stellate cells of the adenohypophysis. Granular Cell Tumour These lesions may be found incidentally at autopsy as microscopic nodules along the pituitary stalk. Clinically relevant lesions present as slow-growing, solid space-occupying tumours that mimic pituitary macroadenomas on preoperative imaging. Microscopically they are characterised by sheets of relatively large cells with eosinophilic, granular cytoplasm. Nuclei are round, sometimes eccentric and contain inconspicuous nucleoli. There are generally no mitoses. The cytoplasmic granules remain periodic-acid-Schiff (PAS) positive after diastase treatment. Ultrastructurally, the granules correspond to membrane-bound lysosomal organelles. This is reflected in patchy immunostaining with PGM-1 antibody against CD68, a membrane epitope belonging to the lysosomal/endosomal-associated membrane glycoprotein (LAMP) family. Tumour cells are also usually S100-positive but negative for cytokeratins, synaptophysin and pituitary hormones. In our experience granular cell tumours of the sellar region consistently show strong nuclear TTF-1 expression. The proliferation fraction is low (<5%) but tumours with mitoses and multiple recurrences have been described. Surgery is the preferred treatment modality. Pituicytoma This variant of posterior pituitary or infundibular TTF-1-positive neoplasm consists of fascicles of elongated yet plump bipolar cells that are pale eosinophilic and usually lack granularity (134). There may be moderate nuclear hyperchromasia but mitoses are generally absent. Electron microscopy demonstrates intermediate filaments and no secretory granules. Tumour cells express vimentin and S100 and show variable GFAP positivity. Proliferation is low. Again, surgery is the main treatment Spindle Cell Oncocytoma Spindle cell oncocytoma may share light-microscopic appearances with pituicytoma, particularly if accumulation
