Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


S100 and show variable GFAP positivity. Proliferation is low. Again, surgery is the main treatment Spindle Cell Oncocytoma Spindle cell oncocytoma may share light-microscopic appearances with pituicytoma, particularly if accumulation of mitochondria, a defining feature, is not fully developed. Tumour cells are elongated, spindle-shaped, sometimes arranged in fascicles or epithelioid. Nuclei may be moderately pleomorphic and hyperchromatic but mitoses are again rare, although a few reports documented atypical variants with an increased recurrence rate. Scattered lymphocytic infiltration may be seen. Apart from abundant mitochondria, ultrastructural features that help to distinguish these tumours morphologically are well-formed desmosomes (135). Tumours show strong nuclear TTF-1 positivity and cytoplasmic annexin-1 expression. The latter is shared with folliculo-stellate cells of the adenohypophysis (but may also be seen in pituicytes). EMA may be expressed and is usually absent from pituicytomas and granular cell tumours. GFAP, cytokeratins and neuroendocrine markers are generally negative. The proliferation fraction is usually low but may reach 25% in recurrent tumours. Figure 3b-23 Histology of TTF-1 positive neoplasms of the neurohypophysis. Granular cell tumour (left) and pituicytoma (right) are morphologically distinct but share nuclear TTF-1 expression, confirming their origin from specialised glial cells of the posterior gland or infundibulum. Both entities are S100 positive but only the pituicytoma expresses GFAP. Molecular Genetics No pathognomonic molecular genetic features have been identified for these neoplasms. Comparative genomic hybridization on one case demonstrated losses on chr 1p, 14q and 22q and gains on 5p (136). Presumed glial origin prompted examination of the IDH1 R132H and BRAF V600E mutations and BRAF-KIAA fusion gene in a recent study of 14 cases comprising all three pathologies (137). Systematic genomic and epigenomic analysis may clarify the aetiologic relationship of these tumours. PRIMARY NEOPLASMS OF THE SELLAR REGION THAT MAY MIMIC PITUITARY ADENOMAS Germinoma Intracranial germ cell neoplasms have a predilection for midline structures and commonly involve the infundibular region. The most common form of this rare tumour is germinoma. Definition An extragonadal germ cell tumour arising in or above the pituitary fossa with histological features resembling gonadal seminoma. Pathology Tumours may present as large compressive lesions or subtle thickening of the (posterior) pituitary stalk. Diabetes insipidus is a classic presentation but delayed puberty due to hypopituitarism is also seen. Pituitary germinomas commonly manifest in children or young adults, mostly males. Historically, the incidence is far higher in East Asia than Western countries. CSF/blood tumour markers (alpha-fetoprotein and human chorionic
