Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


Pituitary germinomas commonly manifest in children or young adults, mostly males. Historically, the incidence is far higher in East Asia than Western countries. CSF/blood tumour markers (alpha-fetoprotein and human chorionic gonadotrophin) that can be diagnostic in germ cell tumours with yolk-sac or choriocarcinoma components may not be helpful in pure germinoma, resulting in biopsy. Histological diagnosis may be difficult because some germinomas elicit a profound inflammatory or even granulomatous reaction that can obscure the neoplastic cells. Typical examples show a biphasic architecture of large tumour cells with vesicular nuclei, prominent nucleoli and mitoses accompanied by reactive lymphocytes. Tumour cells express placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP), CD117 (KIT) and the transcription factor POU5F1 (Oct3/4). Figure 3b-24 Histology of germinoma of the pituitary gland. Pituitary germinomas share their morphological phenotype with gonadal seminomas. They consist of large anaplastic cells accompanied by a dense lymphocytic infiltrate (left). The tumour cells strongly express c-kit, PLAP (right) and Oct3/4 transcription factors. Molecular Genetics Intracranial germinomas are thought to arise from displaced primordial germ cells. Until recently, little was known about the molecular pathogenesis of these rare tumours. Comprehensive genomic and transcriptomic analyses revealed that pure germinomas are associated with mutually exclusive mutations in KIT and RAS in the majority of cases (138). These mutations result in the constitutive activation of the KIT-driven MAPK pathway, consistent with the observation of strong KIT expression by these tumours. Another study, employing next-generation sequencing, found additional somatic mutations in CBL, a negative regulator of KIT, as well as copy number gains at the AKT1 locus resulting in mTOR pathway activation (139) This study also found germ line variants in JMJD1C among Japanese patients, a possible explanation for the skewed incidence rates described above (139). Treatment for localised pure germinoma consists of radiotherapy; chemotherapy is an effective strategy to reduce the radiation dose (140). CHORDOMA OF THE CLIVUS Definition A slow-growing but highly destructive neoplasm arising from remnants of the rostral notochord. Pathology Intracranial chordomas are almost exclusively located at the dorsum sellae. They may result in compression of the pituitary and destruction of the pituitary fossa. Tumours are soft, gelatinous lesions with a striking cytopathology. Typical tumours contain large, vacuolated (‘physaliphorous’) cells surrounded by a mucinous matrix. They are arranged in anastomosing cords or sheets. Occasional mitoses are found. Tumours express S100 and low-molecular weight keratins and epithelial membrane antigen (EMA). Brachyury, or transcription factor T, serves as a highly
