Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


in anastomosing cords or sheets. Occasional mitoses are found. Tumours express S100 and low-molecular weight keratins and epithelial membrane antigen (EMA). Brachyury, or transcription factor T, serves as a highly sensitive and specific marker for the diagnosis of chordoma, facilitating distinction from chondrosarcomas, (chordoid) meningiomas or metastases. It is physiologically expressed in undifferentiated notochord of the axial skeleton. The neoplasm slowly invades along neurovascular bundles and may be surgically incurable. Proton beam therapy is commonly applied in order to preserve neurological function (141). Dedifferentiation upon recurrence may rarely occur, resulting in a poor prognosis. Figure 3b-25 Histology of sellar chordoma. These tumours arise from remnants of the notochord and are highly characteristic in appearance, comprising pleomorphic cells with very large vacuoles and intracellular PAS-positive mucin, floating in an alcian blue-positive matrix. Molecular Genetics The discovery of gene duplications involving the transcription factor T gene (brachyury) in familial chordoma strongly supported the idea of notochordal origin of these tumours (142). However, no recurrent somatic mutations in T or its promotor have been described that could explain the consistently high expression of brachyury by tumour cells. More recent analysis has revealed that a common single nucleotide variant in T (SNP rs2305089) is strongly associated with chordomas in apparently non-mendelian cases (143). The risk allele variant leads to increased expression of T, providing a plausible pathogenetic link and target for future molecular therapies. SECONDARY NEOPLASMS OF THE SELLAR REGION THAT MAY MIMIC PITUITARY ADENOMAS Definition These lesions are here defined as neoplasms that arise at extracranial sites and colonise the pituitary, usually via haematogenous spread; i.e. pituitary metastases. Pathology The rich vascularity of the pituitary gland facilitates haematogenous seeding of micrometastases. Deposits from breast, lung and gastrointestinal carcinomas are most common. Autopsy series have suggested a relatively high incidence of between 3-27% in the setting of disseminated malignancy. However, many may represent asymptomatic micrometastases. In clinically manifest examples neuroimaging features can be very similar to pituitary adenomas. Even biopsy appearances can be deceptive, particularly in the setting of TTF-1-positive neuroendocrine carcinomas of the lung. However, the degree of cytological atypia and mitoses usually point to the right diagnosis. Judicial use of immunohistochemistry helps to narrow down the possible site of origin if the pituitary metastasis is the first manifestation of an occult malignancy. NON-NEOPLASTIC LESIONSOF THE PITUITARY THAT MAY MIMIC ADENOMAS: LYMPHOCYTIC HYPOPHYSITIS Definition A rare lymphocytic inflammatory disorder of the pituitary gland
