Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


pituitary metastasis is the first manifestation of an occult malignancy. NON-NEOPLASTIC LESIONSOF THE PITUITARY THAT MAY MIMIC ADENOMAS: LYMPHOCYTIC HYPOPHYSITIS Definition A rare lymphocytic inflammatory disorder of the pituitary gland of autoimmune aetiology. Pathology Classic lymphocytic hypophysitis consists of a dense, sometimes follicular, lymphoplasmacytoid infiltrate of the gland that in some cases may result in fibrosis and permanent hypopituitarism. All parts of the gland may be affected to variable degrees, resulting in distinction of adenohypophysitis, infundibuloneurohypophysitis or panhypophysitis. In the acute phase symmetrical swelling of the gland may lead to headaches or diabetes insipidus, a presenting symptom often associated with radiologically detectable swelling of the pituitary stalk. Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism represents a common deficit of anterior pituitary function. The inflammatory infiltrate consists predominantly of T-cells with a CD4/CD8 ratio of 2:1 or more. Lymphoid follicles may occasionally be observed. Figure 3b-26 MRI and histology of lymphocytic hypophysitis. The MRI appearances may be mistaken for a non-functioning adenoma; however, there are distinctive features, including homogeneous enhancement with extension posteriorly and rostrally via the infundibulum (‘infundibulohypophysitis’). There is a dense, destructive lymphocytic infiltrate, leaving islands of residual anterior gland (eosinophilic cells, top right) that in this instance are lactotrophs (bottom left; serial section to top right). The lymphocytes are predominantly T-cells (CD3-positive, bottom left). Pathogenesis It is likely that different immunopathogenic mechanisms result in lymphocytic hypophysitis as the common endpoint. Historically, the disease was thought to be largely restricted to young females, temporally related to the late stages of pregnancy or early post-partum period. Shared placental and pituitary antigens have been implicated in these cases. An association with other autoimmune diseases has been reported in up to 50% of cases. Numerous studies have tried to pinpoint specific autoantibodies against pituitary or hypothalamic antigens (summarised in (144)). However, these assays are at present not as robust as those for other autoimmune diseases. Recent associations of lymphocytic hypophysitis with IgG4 disease and immune modulatory cancer therapies have led to novel insights. Hypophysitis in IgG4-related, multifocal systemic autoimmune disease is characterised by a relative increase of the plasma-cell population in the inflammatory infiltrate (145). These plasma cells are polyclonal and a significant proportion can be stained by monoclonal antibodies against IgG4. Patients may have raised serum IgG4 levels and coexistent lesions in other organs. The hypophysitis is exquisitely sensitive to steroids and surgery should be avoided (145). The administration of Ipilimumab, a blocker of T cell
