Pathology And Pathogenesis Of Pituitary Adenomas And Other Sellar Lesions
KEYWORDS: pituitary, adenomas, cells, expression, adenoma, mutations, cell, tumours, pituitary adenomas, somatotroph, growth, tumour, receptor, endocrinol, granulated


IgG4 levels and coexistent lesions in other organs. The hypophysitis is exquisitely sensitive to steroids and surgery should be avoided (145). The administration of Ipilimumab, a blocker of T cell inhibitory molecule CTLA-4 that is successfully used in immunomodulatory therapy of advanced malignancies such as melanoma, induces lymphocytic hypophysitis in up to 4% of patients. Direct study of human pituitary tissue and experimental CTLA-4 blockade in mice suggested that off-target blockade of CTLA-4 expressed by pituitary endocrine cells, mostly lactotrophs and thyrotrophs, triggers inflammation (146). Specifically, binding of Ipilimumab to endocrine cells resulted in deposition of complement components, triggering a type II hypersensitivity reaction. In patients this was followed by production of anti-pituitary serum antibodies (146). GRANULOMATOUS HYPOPHYSITIS Definition Inflammation of the pituitary gland characterised by the presence of well-formed granulomas with giant cells. Pathology The gland may be friable and swollen. Microscopically lymphoplasmacytic inflammation is associated with epithelioid histiocytes and multinucleated giant cells. Necrosis may or may not be present. Pathogenesis Granulomatous hypophysitis represents not a single entity and is even less common than lymphocytic hypophysitis. It may be idiopathic (primary), or a (secondary) manifestation of a systemic granulomatous disorder such as sarcoidosis or Wegener’s granulomatosis. Infectious aetiologies include tuberculosis, syphilis and fungal disease. The relationship of the idiopathic form to lymphocytic hypophysitis remains unclear. A recent review of 82 published cases noted a female sex bias but significantly later age at presentation than for lymphocytic hypophysitis (147). The authors speculate that idiopathic granulomatous hypophysitis may represent a chronic or late-stage manifestation of (initially subclinical) lymphocytic hypophysitis. REFERENCES CHAPTER 3B Ezzat S, Asa SL, Couldwell WT, Barr CE, Dodge WE, Vance ML, McCutcheon IE. The prevalence of pituitary adenomas: a systematic review. Cancer 2004; 101:613-619 Laws ER, Jr., Lopes MB. The new WHO classification of pituitary tumors: highlights and areas of controversy. Acta neuropathologica 2006; 111:80-81 Zada G, Woodmansee WW, Ramkissoon S, Amadio J, Nose V, Laws ER, Jr. Atypical pituitary adenomas: incidence, clinical characteristics, and implications. Journal of neurosurgery 2011; 114:336-344 Al-Shraim M, Asa SL. The 2004 World Health Organization classification of pituitary tumors: what is new? Acta Neuropathol 2006; 111:1-7 Zada G, Lin N, Laws ER, Jr. Patterns of extrasellar extension in growth hormone-secreting and nonfunctional pituitary macroadenomas. Neurosurg Focus 2010; 29:E4 Bakhtiar Y, Hirano H, Arita K, Yunoue S, Fujio S, Tominaga A, Sakoguchi T, Sugiyama K, Kurisu K, Yasufuku-Takano J, Takano K. Relationship between cytokeratin
