NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: antidepressants, agents, serotonin, injury, inhibitors, tricyclic, reuptake, liver, tricyclic antidepressants, use, antidepressant, liver injury, ssris, activity, nefazodone


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Antidepressant Agents. [Updated 2018 Apr 27]. Bookshelf URL: Antidepressant Agents Updated: April 27, 2018. OVERVIEW The antidepressants are some of the most commonly prescribed medications in current use. They are also important causes of drug induced liver injury accounting for 2% to 5% of clinically apparent cases. Th e antidepressants can be grouped into four categories: monamine oxidase inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, and miscellaneous agents. The monamine oxidase inhibitors are a large group of hydrazide derivatives which were found to have antidepressant activity when first used in the therapy of tuberculosis in the 1950s. These agents inhibit the enzyme monamine oxidase that is responsible for inactivation of many amine neurotransmitters such as norepinephrine and serotonin, thus increasing their levels and activity in the brain. MAO inhibitors (with initial tranylcypromine (Parnate: 1961), and isocarboxazid (Marplan: 1959). MAO inhibitors are currently not widely used, having been replaced by the tricyclic antidepressants and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors which have greater potency and fewer adverse side effects. The MAO inhibitors can cause serum aminotransferase to 3 months after starting therapy. The tricyclic antidepressants share a tricyclic chemical structure somewhat resembling the phenothiazines. Th e tricyclics are believed to act by inhibition of reuptake of serotonin and norephinephrine, thus increasing levels of these neurotransmitters. Tricyclic antidepressants in current use include amitriptyline (Elavil: 1961), clomipramine (Anafranil: 1989), desipramine (Norpramin: 1964), doxepin (Sinequan: 1969), imipramine (Tofranil: 1959), nortriptyline (Aventyl or Pamelor: 1964) and protriptyline (Vivactil: 1967). Two more recently approved agents are usually categorized as tricyclics, but have some unique characteristics: trimipramine (Surmontil: 1979) and amoxapine (Asendin: 1992). The various tricyclic antidepressants are capable of causing transient serum aminotransferase elevations to varying degrees and, in rare instances, clinically apparent acute liver injury. Various pattern of hepatic injury have been associated with different tricyclic antidepressants. The selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are a group of structurally unrelated agents characterized by a common mechanism of action, the inhibition of reuptake of serotonin in synaptic clefts which results in an increase in brain serotonin activity. These agents are considered selective, because they have little activity in blocking reuptake of norepinephrine or other neurotransmitters. The SSRIs are currently the most commonly used antidepressants. Those in current use include citalopram (Celexa: 1998), escitalopram (Lexapro: 2002), fluoxetine (Prozac: 1987), fluvoxamine (Luvox: 1994), paroxetine (Paxil:
