NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: antidepressants, agents, serotonin, injury, inhibitors, tricyclic, reuptake, liver, tricyclic antidepressants, use, antidepressant, liver injury, ssris, activity, nefazodone


other neurotransmitters. The SSRIs are currently the most commonly used antidepressants. Those in current use include citalopram (Celexa: 1998), escitalopram (Lexapro: 2002), fluoxetine (Prozac: 1987), fluvoxamine (Luvox: 1994), paroxetine (Paxil: 1992), sertraline (Zoloft: 1991), venlafaxine (Effexor: 1965) and duloxetine (Cymbalta: 2004). Two more recently approved serotonergic agents are unique in that they have bimodal activity, inhibiting serotonin reuptake like typical SSRIs, but also having partial agonist-antagonist activity directly against serotonin receptors: vilazodone (Viibryd: 2011) and 2 LiverTox vortioxetine (Brintellix: 2013). Serum aminotransferase elevations occur in up to 10% of patients taking conventional SSRIs. Varying patterns of acute liver injury have been described with most agents, but clinically apparent liver injury due to these agents is rare. Miscellaneous antidepressants include tetracyclic agents that act by inhibition of reuptake of both serotonin and norepinephrine and are thus known as SNRIs (mirtazapine: Remeron, 1996), aminoketones (bupropion: Wellbutrin: 1985), and triazolopyradine derivatives (trazodone: Desyrel, 1981; and nefazodone: formerly Serzone, 1994). The latter two agents, but particularly nefazodone, have been linked to cases of drug induced acute liver injury that can be severe and lead to liver failure and death. Several antidepressant medications have been withdrawn from use because of their potential for hepatotoxicity. but withdrawn in 1961 because of multiple reports of acute hepatic injury more than 10% of which were fatal. Amineptine is a tricyclic antidepressant that was introduced in 1978 in Europe, but subsequently withdrawn because of several reports of prolonged cholestatic hepatic injury associated with its use in rates higher than with other tricyclic antidepressants. Finally, nefazodone, an antidepressant related in structure to trazodone that was approved for use in 1997, was withdrawn by the sponsor in 2003 after multiple reports of acute liver failure arising in patients treated for more than 4 to 6 months. Nefazodone, however, remains available in generic forms. The following drug subclasses and drug records are discussed individually: • MAO Inhibitors ⚬ Isocarboxazid, Phenelzine, Tranylcypromine • SNRIs ⚬ Duloxetine, Levomilnacipran, Venlafaxine • SSRIs ⚬ Citalopram, Escitalopram, Fluoxetine, Fluvoxamine, Paroxetine, Sertraline , Vilazodone, Vortioxetine • Tricyclics ⚬ Amitriptyline, Amoxapine, Clomipramine, Desipramine, Doxepin, Imipramine, Nortriptyline, Protriptyline, Trimipramine • Miscellaneous ⚬ Brexanolone, Bupropion, Esketamine, Flibanserin, Mirtazapine, Nefazodone, Trazodone
