Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation
KEYWORDS: diabetes, transplant, ptdm, pubmed, transplantation, recipients, kidney, patients, transplant recipients, risk, heart, associated, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, study


ABSTRACT Post transplantation diabetes mellitus (PTDM) is a common and important complication following solid organ transplantation. PTDM may arise from both transplant-related and traditional risk factors and has variably been reported to be associated with decreased patient and graft survival and other adverse outcomes including increased cardiovascular disease risk, infection, and graft rejection. This chapter reviews the nomenclature change for post-transplant diabetes, diagnostic criteria, risk factors, incidence after solid organ transplantation, and associated adverse effects. Screening for PTDM including pretransplant evaluation and early detection in the post-transplant period, and the unique aspects of diabetes management in the context of organ transplantation are also discussed. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . NOMENCLATURES AND DIAGNOSIS OF POSTTRANSPLANTATION DIABETES MELLITUS: HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVES Nomenclatures Post transplantation diabetes mellitus (PTDM) was first described in kidney transplant recipients in 1964 ( 1 ). It was subsequently recognized as a complication of kidney transplantation in the 1970s. Over the years, PTDM has undergone changes in nomenclatures including steroid diabetes, post transplantation diabetes mellitus (PTDM), new onset diabetes mellitus (NODM), transplant-associated hyperglycemia (TAH), and new onset diabetes after transplantation (NODAT) ( 2 - 6 ). In 2014, the International Expert Panel consisting of transplant nephrologists, diabetologists, and clinical scientists recommended changing the terminology NODAT back to PTDM, excluding transient post transplantation hyperglycemia ( 7 ). Utilizing the term NODAT is thought to be misleading because it seemingly excludes patients with undiagnosed pretransplant diabetes. Factors that may lead to undiagnosed pretransplant diabetes include lack of universal pretransplant screening, impaired insulin clearance by the kidneys and/or impaired gluconeogenesis ( 8 ), and spuriously low A1C levels due to decreased red blood cell survival and chronic anemia. The term PTDM will be utilized for the remainder of this chapter. Diagnosis Historically, PTDM has been variably defined as having random glucose levels greater than 200 mg/dL, fasting glucose levels greater than 140 mg/dL, or the need for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in the post-transplantation period ( 9 ). In 2003 the International Expert panel consisting of leaders from both the transplant and diabetes fields suggested that the definition and diagnosis of diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance should be based on the definition and diagnosis described by the World Health Organizations ( 10 ). In 2011, the American Diabetes Association (ADA) incorporated hemoglobin A1C (A1C) > 6.5% as a diagnostic criterion
