Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation
KEYWORDS: diabetes, transplant, ptdm, pubmed, transplantation, recipients, kidney, patients, transplant recipients, risk, heart, associated, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, study


the definition and diagnosis described by the World Health Organizations ( 10 ). In 2011, the American Diabetes Association (ADA) incorporated hemoglobin A1C (A1C) > 6.5% as a diagnostic criterion for diabetes mellitus in the general population based on the observed association between A1C level and the risk for future development of retinopathy ( 11 ). In 2014, the International Expert Panel recommended expanding screening tests for PTDM using postprandial glucose monitoring and A1C ( 7 ). The 2024 updated international consensus guidelines endorse the use of oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) as a tool for diagnosis and screening because A1C lacks diagnostic sensitivity and association with adverse outcomes ( 12 ). Patients with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) or PTDM, exclusively diagnosed by OGTT, are at risk for cardiovascular disease and premature death. The expert panel proposed performing OGTT at 10- to 13- week post-transplantation for screening and diagnosis of PTDM and IGT. Patients with prediabetes (impaired fasting glucose or IGT) or PTDM risk factors may benefit from annual OGTT. Although OGTT is widely accepted as gold standard for PTDM diagnosis, it is infrequently performed in clinical practice except in the setting of living donor evaluation because of inconvenience and cost ( 13 ). In clinical practice, A1C remains a valuable tool for screening and diagnosing PTDM. However, A1C should not be used to evaluate for PTDM in the first 3 months after transplant because it cannot be accurately interpreted in the setting of dynamic kidney allograft function or anemia, both of which are common in the post-transplantation period. In a small single-center study consisting of 30 patients with diabetes and CKD stage 3b and 4, treatment with intravenous iron and erythropoietin stimulating agent (ESA) has been shown to result in a fall in A1C independent of glycemic changes ( 14 ). It is speculated that the fall in A1C level associated with either treatment is due to the formation of new erythrocytes in the circulation (causing a change in the proportion of young to old red blood cells), and an alteration in the red-cell glycation rates. A similar study in the transplant setting is lacking and warrants further exploration because intravenous iron and ESA therapy are commonly administered in the early posttransplant period. The 2025 American Diabetes Association criteria for prediabetes and diabetes are shown in Figure 1 ( 15 ). It should be noted that the algorithmic approach
