Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation
KEYWORDS: diabetes, transplant, ptdm, pubmed, transplantation, recipients, kidney, patients, transplant recipients, risk, heart, associated, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, study


the early posttransplant period. The 2025 American Diabetes Association criteria for prediabetes and diabetes are shown in Figure 1 ( 15 ). It should be noted that the algorithmic approach to the screening and diagnosis of PTDM is largely based on published kidney transplantation literature. Similar studies in the settings of liver, heart, and lung transplants are lacking. However, it is speculated that the principles are relevant to all forms of solid organ transplantation ( 7 ). Figure 1. The 2025 American Diabetes Association Diagnostic Criteria for Prediabetes and Diabetes. 1 For A1C, FPG and 2-h OGTT, risk is continuous, extending below the lower limit of the range, becoming disproportionately greater at the higher end of the range. 2 In the absence of unequivocal hyperglycemia, diagnosis of DM using A1C, FPG, or 2-h OGTT requires two abnormal test results from the same sample or in two separate samples. 3 Random plasma glucose is only diagnostic in patient with classic symptoms of hyperglycemia or hyperglycemic crisis (i.e. polyuria, polydipsia, unexplained weight loss) ( 15 ). OGTT, oral glucose tolerance test; A1C, hemoglobin A1C. INCIDENCE PTDM has been reported to occur in 4% to 25% of kidney transplant recipients, 2.5% to 25% of liver transplant recipients, 4% to 40% of heart transplant recipients, and 30% to 35% of lung transplant recipients ( 10 , 16 - 19 ). Higher incidences have also been reported. Variations in the reported incidence may be due in part to the prior lack of a standard definition, presence of both modifiable and nonmodifiable risks factors, duration of follow-up, type of organ transplants, and primary diagnostic indications for transplant. In one retrospective cohort study of 415 liver transplant recipients, PTDM occurred in 34.7%, 46.9%, and 56.2% of patients at 1, 3, and 5-year follow-up, respectively ( 19 ). The 33 rd International Society of Heart and Lung Transplantation database demonstrated that approximately 29% of lung transplant recipients who survived 5 years post-transplantation developed PTDM, with the highest incidence occurring among those whose primary diagnosis for lung transplantation was cystic fibrosis. ( 20 ). RISK FACTORS FOR PTDM PTDM may arise from both transplant-related and traditional risk factors. The diabetogenic effect of various immunosuppressive agents have been well described. Corticosteroids may reduce peripheral insulin sensitivity, inhibit pancreatic production/secretion, and increase hepatic gluconeogenesis. The calcineurin inhibitors tacrolimus and cyclosporine decrease insulin secretion and synthesis. Sirolimus increases peripheral insulin resistance and
