Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation
KEYWORDS: diabetes, transplant, ptdm, pubmed, transplantation, recipients, kidney, patients, transplant recipients, risk, heart, associated, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, study


Corticosteroids may reduce peripheral insulin sensitivity, inhibit pancreatic production/secretion, and increase hepatic gluconeogenesis. The calcineurin inhibitors tacrolimus and cyclosporine decrease insulin secretion and synthesis. Sirolimus increases peripheral insulin resistance and impairs pancreatic beta-cell response. The antimetabolites azathioprine and mycophenolic acid derivatives (mycophenolate mofetil and mycophenolate sodium) are not diabetogenic. Belatacept is a humanized fusion protein that inhibits the costimulatory pathway. Its use in kidney transplant recipients has not been shown to increase PTDM risk. Transplant patients may have improved appetite and a more liberal diet which can lead to obesity. Risk factors for PTDM can be loosely categorized into those that are non-modifiable, potentially modifiable, and modifiable ( 9 , 21 - 28 ). Solid organ transplant recipients with specific end-organ diagnosis such as end-stage kidney disease due to polycystic kidney disease, end-stage lung disease due to cystic fibrosis, or end-stage liver disease due to hepatitis C infection or metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (previously known as non-alcoholic steatohepatitis) have been reported to be at increased risk for PTDM compared with those without such diagnosis ( 25 ). Donor liver steatosis has also been reported to be associated with an increased incidence of PTDM ( 26 ). Suggested risk factors for the development of PTDM are presented in Figure 2 . A more extensive discussion of the studies evaluating PTDM risk factors is beyond the scope of this chapter. Interested readers are referred to reference Pham and colleagues ( 9 ). Figure 2. Suggested Risk factors for PTDM. 1 The advent of highly effective, pan-genotypic, direct-acting antiviral agents and the now widely available of oral combination agents targeting against different stages of the hepatitis C virus replicative cycle can potentially eradicate hepatitis C in kidney transplant candidates and recipients. Stable transplant recipients with HCV viremia by PCR should be referred to Hepatology for treatment. In HCV-positive kidney transplant candidate with a living donor, pretransplant treatment of HCV infection should be considered. 2 Posttransplantation CMV prophylaxis is preferred over preemptive therapy after heart and lung transplant. Either prophylaxis or preemptive therapy is recommended after kidney or liver transplant recipients. However, for programs or patients who are unable to meet the stringent logistic requirements required with preemptive therapy, prophylaxis therapy is recommended. 3 Persistent hypomagnesemia can occasionally be seen despite aggressive replacement therapy because of ongoing calcineurin inhibitor-induced urinary magnesium wasting. 4 Manipulation of immunosuppression should be weighed against the risk of acute rejection.
