Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation
KEYWORDS: diabetes, transplant, ptdm, pubmed, transplantation, recipients, kidney, patients, transplant recipients, risk, heart, associated, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, study


hypomagnesemia can occasionally be seen despite aggressive replacement therapy because of ongoing calcineurin inhibitor-induced urinary magnesium wasting. 4 Manipulation of immunosuppression should be weighed against the risk of acute rejection. 5 Donor liver steatosis has also been reported to be associated with increased PTDM risk. PPAR, peroxisome proliferators activated receptor; IGT, impaired glucose tolerance; IFG, impaired fasting glucose. IMPACT OF PTDM ON OUTCOMES AFTER TRANSPLANTATION Studies evaluating the association between PTDM and morbidity and mortality have yielded mixed results ( 29 - 38 ). PTDM After Kidney Transplantation Retrospective analysis of the United States Renal Data System consisting of more than 11,000 kidney transplant recipients demonstrated that PTDM was a strong, independent predictor of mortality (p < 0.0001), graft failure (unadjusted for graft loss due to rejection) (p < 0.0001), and death-censored graft failure (p < 0.0001) ( 22 ). One single-center study consisting of more than 700 kidney transplant recipients similarly demonstrated worse 10-year actuarial patient survival among patients with PTDM compared with those without PTDM (67.1% vs. 81.9%, respectively). Five- and 10-year graft survival rates were similar among patients with PTDM and those without PTDM ( 29 ). In contrast, in a multicenter longitudinal cohort study consisting of 632 kidney transplant recipients of deceased-donor kidneys, no association between PTDM and mortality or graft failure was observed at a median follow-up of 6 years post-transplantation (n=632) ( 30 ). Subgroup analyses showed that late onset PTDM (developing beyond 1-year post-transplantation) was associated with worse graft outcomes. A retrospective analysis of the UNOS/OPTN database (n > 37,000) similarly failed to demonstrate the negative impact of PTDM on transplant survival or cardiovascular mortality during a median follow up of 548 days ( 31 ). However, the study results were considered inconclusive because of the wide confidence intervals and relatively short duration of follow-up. A systematic review and meta-analysis of 53 studies (n= 138,917 patients) demonstrated that PTDM is associated with a significant increase in overall graft failure [(Risk ratio [RR] 1.33, p < .001), all-cause mortality (RR 1.70, p < .001), and cardiovascular and sepsis-related mortality (RR 1.86, p < .001 and RR 1.96, p < .001, respectively)]. Although systematic review and meta-analysis has inherent bias including heterogeneity of study demographics and publication bias (studies with significant results are overrepresented), the inclusion of a substantial number of studies and patients provides a robust basis for assessing the impact of PTDM on
