Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation
KEYWORDS: diabetes, transplant, ptdm, pubmed, transplantation, recipients, kidney, patients, transplant recipients, risk, heart, associated, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, study


and publication bias (studies with significant results are overrepresented), the inclusion of a substantial number of studies and patients provides a robust basis for assessing the impact of PTDM on post-transplantation outcomes ( 38 ). PTDM After Liver Transplantation Retrospective analysis of the UNOS/OPTN database consisting of > 13,000 liver transplant recipients demonstrated that the presence of both PTDM and acute rejection at 1-year posttransplant but not PTDM alone was associated with higher overall graft failure and mortality risk. However, it should be noted that UNOS database did not distinguish transient post transplantation hyperglycemia from established PTDM. A single-center retrospective cohort study (n=994) compared the incidence of major cardiovascular events (MCE) among four groups of liver transplant recipients 1) without diabetes (39%), 2) with pre-existing diabetes (24%), 3) with transient PTDM (16%), and 4) with sustained PTDM (20%). Sustained PTDM was found to be associated with a significant increase in mortality risk and a doubling of major cardiovascular events at a median follow up of 54.7 months (sub-distribution HR 1.95, 95% CI 1.20–3.18). A greater than threefold increased risk of death was observed among those who experienced MCE (sustained PTDM was defined as PTDM for at least 6 months after transplant). MCE was defined as a composite of cardiac arrest, fatal and nonfatal myocardial infarction, ischemic stroke, and symptomatic peripheral artery disease requiring a revascularization intervention) ( 34 ). In a retrospective cohort study of 415 adult liver transplant recipients, PTDM was found to be associated with higher rejection rates (31.9% vs. 21.8%, respectively; p=0.055) and a trend towards worse patient survival compared with no-PTDM at 5 year follow up (72.5% vs. 77.2%, respectively; p=0.460) ( 19 ). Although studies on the association between PTDM and patient and allograft outcomes after liver transplantation have yielded variable results, most studies demonstrated that PTDM after liver transplantation is associated with increased mortality risk ( 35 ). PTDM After Heart Transplantation Meta-analysis of observational studies in heart transplant recipients demonstrated that pre-existing diabetes was associated with a 37% increase in mortality risk (HR 1.37, CI 1.15-1.62) ( 36 ). Studies on the impact of PTDM on outcomes after heart transplantation are lacking. In one single-center South Korean study consisting of 391 isolated heart transplant recipients 1) without diabetes (n=257), 2) with pre-existing diabetes (n=46), and 3) with PTDM (n=88), the risk of death was found to be twofold higher among transplant recipients with
