Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation
KEYWORDS: diabetes, transplant, ptdm, pubmed, transplantation, recipients, kidney, patients, transplant recipients, risk, heart, associated, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, study


within 2 weeks of death, and 5) DM developing after transplant but death within 90 days of transplant, pre-existing DM and PTDM were associated with a 65% (p=0.003) and a 90% (p<0.001) increase in mortality risk, respectively ( 42 ). Although studies on the impact of PTDM on outcomes after non-renal solid organ transplantation remain limited, PTDM appears to be associated with increased mortality risk regardless of the type of organ transplants (kidney, liver, heart, lung transplant) ( 25 ). Patients with PTDM may also develop many of the complications associated with diabetes similar to that observed in the general population. In a study of 4105 patients with PTDM, one or more diabetic complications arose in 58% including ketoacidosis (8%), hyperosmolarity (3%), renal complications (31%), ophthalmic complications (8%), neurological complications (16%), peripheral circulatory disorders (4%), and hypoglycemia/shock (7%). These complications occurred within a mean of 500-600 days of developing PTDM, indicating an accelerated pace for the development of complications ( 32 ). Moreover, PTDM patients had an increased rate of infections and sepsis compared with their counterparts without diabetes. DETECTION OF PTDM Pretransplant Baseline Evaluation Pretransplant Evaluation should include history of hyperglycemia, prediabetes, diabetes, and risk factors for PTDM including family history and hepatitis C virus. Those with risk factors for metabolic syndrome can be screened further with laboratory testing. The 2024 international expert panel recommends performing OGTT for diagnosis and screening starting on the waiting list ( 12 ). Patients with evidence of prediabetes can be counseled on lifestyle modifications including dietary modifications, moderate intensity physical activity, and weight reduction (discussed further later). In HCV-positive kidney transplant candidates with a living donor, pretransplant treatment of HCV infection should be considered. With the advent of the direct acting antiviral agent treatment of hepatitis C in the posttransplant period is a reasonable alternative in selected prospective kidney transplant candidates without a living donor due to a considerably shorter waiting time for a deceased HCV-positive donor kidney ( 43 ). The choice of an immunosuppressive regimen should be tailored to each individual patient, weighing the risk of acute rejection against that for PTDM. Early Detection of PTDM After Transplantation New onset perioperative hyperglycemia is common and may develop in the context of high dose corticosteroid, as a consequence of posttransplant stress hyperglycemia, or both. Limited studies suggest that post-transplant stress hyperglycemia is an independent risk factor for subsequent diabetes ( 44 ).
