Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation
KEYWORDS: diabetes, transplant, ptdm, pubmed, transplantation, recipients, kidney, patients, transplant recipients, risk, heart, associated, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, study


high dose corticosteroid, as a consequence of posttransplant stress hyperglycemia, or both. Limited studies suggest that post-transplant stress hyperglycemia is an independent risk factor for subsequent diabetes ( 44 ). Suggested screening and diagnosis of early post-transplant hyperglycemia and PTDM is shown in Figure 3 . Patients with early post-transplant hyperglycemia (defined as hyperglycemia before 45 days after transplantation) should not be diagnosed as PTDM. Figure 3. Suggested screening and diagnosis of early post-transplant hyperglycemia and PTDM (based in part on the 2024 international consensus guidelines). 1 The 2024 international consensus expert panel suggests early use of DDP4-I. 2 Although OGTT is widely accepted as gold standard for PTDM diagnosis, it is infrequently performed in clinical practice because of inconvenience and cost. 3 PTDM may reverse a) when diagnosed early post-transplant, b) when diagnosed by 2hPG only, c) with relatively lower A1C, d) with relatively lower BMI (reference 12 ). Patients with prediabetes (IFG or IGT) or PTDM risk factors may benefit from repeated (annual) OGTT. 4 A1C should not be used to evaluate for PTDM in the first 3 months post-transplant, because it cannot be accurately interpreted in the setting of dynamic kidney function or anemia, both of which are common in the early posttransplant. Recent blood transfusion and dapsone may alter A1C level. At the authors’ institution, fasting and premeal home glucose monitoring is routinely recommended for patients with new-onset post-transplant hyperglycemia particularly those requiring insulin therapy in the immediate post transplantation period. Nonetheless, it should be noted that monitoring a 2-hour postprandial blood glucose may be a better indicator of diabetes, particularly in steroid-treated patients. Clinically stable patients with persistent post-transplant hyperglycemia for > 3 months should be screened for PTDM using either A1C (common practice) or OGTT (2024 consensus guidelines). 5 Thiazolidinediones are better options than sulfonylureas and megletinides (risk of hypoglycemia). PTDM , post transplantation diabetes mellitus; DDP4i, dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitor; OGTT , oral glucose tolerance test; CKD , chronic kidney disease; SGLT2 , sodium glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor ; ASCVD , atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease; GLP-1RA , glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist. PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT OF PTDM Non-Pharmacological Preventive and Management Strategies Studies in the general population demonstrated that lifestyle modification promoting reduced fat/energy diet, daily moderate intensity physical activity, and modest weight loss reduce the incidence of type 2 diabetes ( 45 ). Similar studies in the context of solid organ transplantation are
