Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation
KEYWORDS: diabetes, transplant, ptdm, pubmed, transplantation, recipients, kidney, patients, transplant recipients, risk, heart, associated, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, study


diet, daily moderate intensity physical activity, and modest weight loss reduce the incidence of type 2 diabetes ( 45 ). Similar studies in the context of solid organ transplantation are limited. Small single-center studies showed that post transplantation weight gain is associated with persistent PTDM ( 46 ). In a small single center study consisting of 25 kidney transplant recipients with impaired glucose tolerance, reversal to normal glucose tolerance with lifestyle modification was observed in 13 patients after a median of 9 months with only one patient progressing to PTDM ( 47 ). In contrast, a single-center, randomized controlled trial designed to Compare the benefits of Active Versus passive lifestyle Intervention in kidney Allograft Recipients (CAVIAR) showed no improvement in surrogate markers of glucose metabolism (insulin secretion, insulin sensitivity, and disposition index) among patients randomized to active lifestyle intervention (lifestyle change with the guidance of a renal dietitian, n=66) compared with their passive lifestyle intervention counterparts at 6 month follow-up (leaflet advice alone, n=64). However, clinically, active versus passive lifestyle intervention resulted in weight loss (-2.47 kg, P=0.002) and reduction in fat mass (mean difference, -1.537 kg, P=0.123). A trend towards reduction in PTDM incidence (7.6% versus 15.6%, P = 0.123) was observed in the active intervention arm ( 48 ). At the authors’ institution, all kidney transplant recipients are encouraged to engage in regular physical activities. Weight reduction (if applicable) or avoidance of excessive weight gain is recommended. For obese kidney transplant recipients, it is important to define realistic goals such as weight loss of 5% to 10% of total body weight ( 13 ). The ideal dietary intervention for PTDM has not been well-defined. Observational data support Mediterranean diets or increased vegetable intake ( 49 - 50 ). Pharmacological Preventive and Management Strategies In the immediate post-transplant period, the pancreatic β-cells are exposed to multiple hyperglycemic stressors including the transplant surgery itself, high-dose corticosteroids, and the introduction of cyclosporine or tacrolimus immunosuppression therapy. It has been suggested that early basal insulin therapy decreases PTDM through insulin-mediated protection of pancreatic beta-cells ( 51 - 52 ). In a randomized controlled trial consisting of 50 kidney transplant recipients who were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either immediate-postoperative isophane insulin for evening blood glucose ≥140 mg/dl (treatment group) or short-acting insulin and/or oral antidiabetic agents for blood glucose ≥180-250 mg/dl (standard-of-care control group), early basal insulin therapy following detection
