Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation
KEYWORDS: diabetes, transplant, ptdm, pubmed, transplantation, recipients, kidney, patients, transplant recipients, risk, heart, associated, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, study


insulin for evening blood glucose ≥140 mg/dl (treatment group) or short-acting insulin and/or oral antidiabetic agents for blood glucose ≥180-250 mg/dl (standard-of-care control group), early basal insulin therapy following detection of early post-transplantation hyperglycemia (defined as < 3 weeks) reduced the subsequent odds of developing PTDM within the first year after transplantation by 73%. Asymptomatic hypoglycemia occurred five times in the treatment group and once in the control group ( 52 ). In an open-label, multicenter randomized trial comparing early post-operative basal insulin therapy vs. standard of care for the prevention of PTDM in kidney transplant recipients, early insulin therapy was similarly found to result in reduced odds for PTDM at 12 months (OR: 0.21 [95% CI, 0.07 to 0.62]) and at 24 months (OR 0.35 [95% CI, 0.14 to 0.87]) after adjustment for baseline differences including polycystic kidney disease. However, treatment resulted in significantly higher hypoglycemia rates ( 53 ). Currently, initiation of insulin therapy in the early post-transplantation period solely to prevent PTDM cannot be routinely recommended and awaits further study. The glucose threshold for starting insulin therapy remains to be defined. Insulin tapering or withdrawal and transitioning to noninsulin-based regimen can be considered after the first 1-3 months after transplant when insulin requirement is less than 15-20 units a day (opinion-based). The choice of individual agents should be based on the potential advantages and disadvantages of different classes of agents at the discretion of the clinicians ( Figure 4 ). Figure 4. The potential advantages and disadvantages of various classes of antihyperglycemic agents. 1 KDIGO guidelines: Reduce dose if estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) < 45 cc/min/1.73 m 2 . Discontinue if eGFR < 30 cc/min/1.73m 2. . 2 Contraindicated in patients with personal history or family history of medullary thyroid cancer or multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) type 2. 3 Sitagliptin may prolong QT interval particularly when used with cyclosporine. 4 Recurrent genital mycotic infections, UTIs, pyelonephritis or urosepsis, neurogenic bladder, vesicoureteral reflux, urinary incontinence, indwelling Foley catheter, clean intermittent catheterization, presence of ureteral stent, hypotension or recurrent volume depletion. Others: patients at risk for or with history of lower limb amputation, risk factors for Fournier gangrene, peripheral vascular disease, and recurrent pancreatitis. Modification of Immunosuppression Although clinical trials comparing the incidence of PTDM in cyclosporine versus tacrolimus-treated patients have yielded variable results, tacrolimus has more consistently been shown to have a greater diabetogenic effect than cyclosporine
