Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation
KEYWORDS: diabetes, transplant, ptdm, pubmed, transplantation, recipients, kidney, patients, transplant recipients, risk, heart, associated, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, study


clinical trials comparing the incidence of PTDM in cyclosporine versus tacrolimus-treated patients have yielded variable results, tacrolimus has more consistently been shown to have a greater diabetogenic effect than cyclosporine ( 54 ). Modification of immunosuppression including cyclosporine (CSA) to tacrolimus (TAC) conversion therapy or steroid avoidance, or withdrawal has variably been shown to improve glycemic control ( 9 , 54 - 58 ). However, manipulation of immunosuppression is not without immunological risk. In a meta-analysis of controlled clinical trials to assess the safety and efficacy of early steroid withdrawal or steroid avoidance in kidney transplant recipients receiving induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies or thymoglobulin and a calcineurin inhibitor-based regimen, steroid avoidance, or steroid withdrawal within a few days after transplant was found to be associated with a decrease in PTDM incidence among CSA- but not TAC-treated patients. However, among CSA-treated patients, acute rejection episodes were more frequently observed in steroid avoidance compared with conventional steroid-treated groups ( 59 ). Studies evaluating the safety and efficacy of late steroid withdrawal (3 to 6 months after transplantation) similarly demonstrated that steroid withdrawal was associated with increased rates of acute rejection in CSA- but not TAC-treated patients. No significant beneficial effect on the incidence of PTDM was observed ( 60 ). A randomized trial of corticosteroid withdrawal (CSWD) demonstrated that CSWD has a limited impact in reducing PTDM compared with low-dose prednisone (5 mg/day from month 6-5 years). The proportion of PTDM patients requiring treatment was similar between CSWD and chronic corticosteroid (CCS) groups (CSWD 22.5% vs. CCS 21.5%). However, insulin use at 5 years was lower in the CSWD group (3.7% vs. 11.6%; P = .049) ( 61 ). In the current era of transplantation, most transplant centers advocate rapid steroid taper and lower target CSA and TAC levels, which may improve PTDM risk. The use of tacrolimus and mTOR inhibitor combination therapy may increase PTDM risk and should probably be avoided. Nonetheless, low dose calcineurin inhibitor (cyclosporine or tacrolimus) and mTOR inhibitor combination therapy seems justifiable in transplant recipients with a history of malignancies (such as skin cancers, renal cell carcinoma, or Kaposi sarcoma). Due to the lack of well-defined guidelines, modification of immunosuppression to alleviate the incidence of PTDM should be tailored to each individual patient. Reduction in immunosuppression should be weighed against the risk of acute rejection. Management of Established PTDM in the Late Post-transplantation Period Although
