Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation
KEYWORDS: diabetes, transplant, ptdm, pubmed, transplantation, recipients, kidney, patients, transplant recipients, risk, heart, associated, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, study


PTDM should be tailored to each individual patient. Reduction in immunosuppression should be weighed against the risk of acute rejection. Management of Established PTDM in the Late Post-transplantation Period Although there may be differences in the pathogenesis and presentation of PTDM compared to type 2 diabetes mellitus, management of established PTDM in the late posttransplant period should follow the conventional approach and clinical guidelines as established by well-recognized organizations. The American Diabetes Association and European Association for the Study of Diabetes generally recommend an A1c target of < 7% ( 62 - 63 ). Lower A1C levels may be acceptable and even beneficial if it can be achieved safely without significant hypoglycemia or other treatment-related adverse effects. In contrast, less stringent A1C goals may be appropriate for patients with limited life expectancy or where the harms of treatment are greater than the benefits. Lifestyle modifications including weight reduction, dietary changes, and regular moderate cardiovascular activity should be employed. If glycemic control does not reach therapeutic targets, medical management with antidiabetic agents and ultimately insulin can be initiated. Metformin has not been widely used in the setting of transplantation due to the concern for lactic acidosis in the presence of dynamic kidney allograft function particularly in the early post transplantation period. In contrast, the potential advantages of metformin including weight neutral or weight loss, cardioprotection, lack of significant drug-drug interactions, wide availability, and low-cost render metformin an attractive treatment option for solid organ transplant recipients. There has been only one randomized clinical trial assessing the efficacy of metformin in the prevention of PTDM in kidney transplant recipients –The Transplantation and Diabetes (Transdiab) study ( 64 ). The Transdiab study is a single-center, open label, randomized controlled trial designed to assess the feasibility, gastrointestinal tolerability, and efficacy of metformin in patients with post- transplantation impaired glucose tolerance. The latter is diagnosed using a 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test in the 4-12 weeks after transplant. Patients with eGFR < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 were excluded from the study. Eligible patients with IFG were randomized to standard of care (n=9) or standard of care plus metformin 500 mg twice daily (n=10). The efficacy of metformin was assessed by measuring fasting blood glucose and A1C at 3, 6, 9, and 12-month follow up. The study demonstrated similar tolerability and efficacy between the two groups. The former was evaluated by the gastrointestinal symptom rating scale at
