Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation
KEYWORDS: diabetes, transplant, ptdm, pubmed, transplantation, recipients, kidney, patients, transplant recipients, risk, heart, associated, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, study


at 3, 6, 9, and 12-month follow up. The study demonstrated similar tolerability and efficacy between the two groups. The former was evaluated by the gastrointestinal symptom rating scale at 3- and 12-months post randomization. At 12-month follow-up, 60% of patients in the metformin arm and 22% in the control arm returned to a normal OGGT (P=0.2). Both groups gained weight by the end of 12 months with the intervention group gaining 2.2 kg and the control group 6.7 kg (P=0.12). One patient discontinued metformin due to gastrointestinal symptoms and another patient required metformin dose reduction due to a metallic taste. One patient in the control group was started on metformin 500 mg twice daily by the treating physician 6 months after randomization due to elevated FBG and A1C. There were no episodes of lactic acidosis or serious adverse events in either arm. Although large randomized controlled trials to assess the risk benefit ratio of metformin are lacking, metformin use appears safe and effective in in kidney transplant recipients with mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30-60 mL/min). The 2024 international consensus expert panel endorses the use of metformin for PTDM in patients with low risk for cardiorenal outcomes or in those without accessibility to novel anti-diabetic agents ( 12 ) Experimental studies suggest that sulfonylureas are associated with β-cell apoptosis and β-cell exhaustion ( 65 ), raising theoretical concern about their use in PTDM, particularly in the early posttransplant period. Currently sulfonylurea has low priority for clinical use (2024 consensus expert opinion) ( 12 ). In contrast to the sulfonylurea drug class, the anti-hyperglycemic dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor (DPP-4) inhibitors have been shown to preserve pancreatic beta-cell function in diabetic animal models ( 66 - 67 ). Early clinical studies suggest that DPP-4 inhibitors are safe and effective in the treatment of PTDM in kidney transplant recipients ( 68 - 71 ). In a randomized controlled trial comparing vildagliptin with placebo in the treatment of PTDM, vildagliptin-treated patients showed a significant reduction in A1C and 2-h plasma glucose (2HPG) during an OGTT compared with their placebo-treated counterparts at 3-month follow-up (vildagliptin: A1C 6.1%, 2HPG = 182.7 mg/dL; placebo: A1C = 6.5%, 2HPG = 231.2 mg/dL; both p ≤ 0.05) ( 68 ). In a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess the efficacy and safety of DDP-4 inhibitors in kidney transplant recipients with PTDM, DDP4-inhibitor use was found to have a
