Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation
KEYWORDS: diabetes, transplant, ptdm, pubmed, transplantation, recipients, kidney, patients, transplant recipients, risk, heart, associated, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, study


68 ). In a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess the efficacy and safety of DDP-4 inhibitors in kidney transplant recipients with PTDM, DDP4-inhibitor use was found to have a favorable glycemic effect (assessed by A1C) compared with either placebo or oral anti-hyperglycemic agent (A1C= -0.993, p=0.001) at 6-month follow-up. No significant changes in eGFR or tacrolimus levels were observed in DDP-4 inhibitor-treated patients ( 72 ). Currently available literature shows that DDP-4 inhibitor use in the setting of kidney transplantation is safe but its use demonstrates no cardio-renal benefit. Studies evaluating the safety and efficacy of DDP-4 inhibitors in non-renal solid organ transplant recipients remain lacking. In a small retrospective study of 30 stable heart transplant recipients with type 2 diabetes, vildagliptin was found to significantly reduce A1C level compared with their control counterparts. Mean A1C in the vildagliptin-treated patients was 7.4% ± 0.7% before versus 6.8% ± 0.8% after 8 months of therapy (P = 0.002 vs baseline). Mean A1C levels at baseline and at 8-month follow up in the control group were 7.0% ± 0.7% versus 7.3% ± 1.2%, respectively (P = 0.21) ( 73 ). No statistically significant changes in body weight, total cholesterol or triglyceride levels were seen in vildagliptin-treated patients. Furthermore, no significant changes in immunosuppressive drug levels or dosages were observed in either group. Whether vildagliptin is safe and effective in the treatment of PTDM after orthotopic heart transplantation warrants further exploration. In contrast, in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial designed to evaluate the long-term cardiovascular efficacy and safety of saxagliptin in patients with type 2 DM at risk of cardiovascular events, saxagliptin administration was unexpectedly found to be associated with a significant 27% increase in hospitalizations for heart failure [the Saxagliptin Assessment of Vascular Outcomes Recorded in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus–Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction 53 (SAVOR-TIMI 53) trial, n =16,492) ( 74 ). However, subsequent post-hoc analyses of two large, randomized placebo-controlled trials (EXAMINE and TECOS trials) showed no increase in heart failure risk in alogliptin- ( 75 ) or sitagliptin-treated patients ( 76 ) compared with their placebo-treated counterparts, suggesting that the increase in heart failure incidence observed with saxagliptin may be specific to the drug rather than a drug class effect. Nonetheless, based on early clinical study results, the FDA has issued a warning about the potential for increased risk for heart failure associated with the use of saxagliptin
