Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation
KEYWORDS: diabetes, transplant, ptdm, pubmed, transplantation, recipients, kidney, patients, transplant recipients, risk, heart, associated, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, study


class effect. Nonetheless, based on early clinical study results, the FDA has issued a warning about the potential for increased risk for heart failure associated with the use of saxagliptin and alogliptin. Saxagliptin use in recipients of heart transplantation with PTDM is not recommended. Whether alogliptin is safe for use after heart transplantation remains to be studied. GLP-1 receptor agonist (GLP-1 RA) therapy may confer cardiorenal protective and weight-loss benefits, counteracting the weight gain commonly seen in the setting of hyperglycemia and steroid therapy after transplantation ( 77 - 78 ). Multiple large cardiovascular outcome trials have demonstrated that the use of GLP-1 RA is associated with a robust and consistent reduction in atheroembolic events, particularly in patients with established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) ( 79 ). Whether favorable cardiovascular outcomes can be extrapolated to the transplant population warrant further exploration. In a USA-based retrospective cohort study consisting of more than 18,000 kidney transplant recipients with type 2 diabetes, GLP-1 RA use was associated with a 49% lower incidence of death-censored graft loss (adjusted subhazard ratio [aSHR] 0·51, p=0·0001) and 31% lower mortality rates (adjusted hazard ratio [aHR] 0·69, p=0·001). Notably, inferences were robust when matched on survival time (death-censored graft loss aSHR 0·53, p=0·0005; mortality aHR 0·70, p=0·003). An increased incidence of diabetic retinopathy was observed among GLP-1 RA users vs. non-users (aHR 1·49, p=0·008) ( 80 ). Pancreatitis, biliary complications, and medullary thyroid cancer were infrequent and not associated with GLP-1 RA use. Nevertheless, it should be noted that GLP-1 RA use is contraindicated in individuals with personal or family history of medullary thyroid cancer (or multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2), and in the setting of acute pancreatitis. GLP-1 RAs have not been studied in patients with a history of pancreatitis. One single-center retrospective study suggests that GLP-1 RA use is not associated with increased risk of recurrent acute pancreatitis ( 81 ). Nonetheless, its use has generally been avoided in such patients. Further studies are needed. Tirzepatide is the first dual glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide and GLP-1 RA and the first drug in the new class known as twincretins. Its use is associated with greater weight loss compared with semaglutide ( 82 ). Its cardioprotective effect is a subject of ongoing clinical research. In a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial consisting of 731 patients with heart failure with ejection fraction of at least 50%, and a body-mass index of
