Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation
KEYWORDS: diabetes, transplant, ptdm, pubmed, transplantation, recipients, kidney, patients, transplant recipients, risk, heart, associated, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, study


subject of ongoing clinical research. In a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial consisting of 731 patients with heart failure with ejection fraction of at least 50%, and a body-mass index of at least 30 who were randomized to receive either tirzepatide (n=364) or placebo (n=367) for at least 52 weeks, treatment with tirzepatide was associated with a lower risk of a composite of death from cardiovascular causes or worsening heart failure compared with placebo at a median follow-up of 104 weeks ( 83 ). In a small single-center retrospective study consisting of 41 solid organ transplant recipients who were started on tirzepatide therapy at a median of 2.91 years after transplant, improved glycemic control, significant weight reduction, and improved renal function were observed at a median follow-up of 11 months ( 84 ). Whether tirzepatide confers cardiorenal protection that is superior to GLP-1 RA in the setting of solid organ transplantation remains to be studied. The sodium-glucose cotransporter type 2 inhibitor (SGLT2i) antidiabetic drug class inhibits glucose reabsorption in the proximal convoluted tubule resulting in glucosuria. The glucosuric effect of SGLT2i is attenuated in patients without hyperglycemia thereby lessening hypoglycemia risk. An experimental animal model of tacrolimus-induced diabetes demonstrated that empagliflozin improves hyperglycemia and suppressed the tacrolimus-induced twofold increase in the expression of SGLT2 receptors ( 85 ). Furthermore, empagliflozin was found to have a direct protective effect on tacrolimus-induced renal injury. The study findings suggest that SGLT2 inhibitor is a suitable therapeutic option for transplant recipients with tacrolimus-induced PTDM. Although initially approved for use as an antidiabetic agent, SGLT2i use was unexpectedly found to have cardio- and reno-protective effects in subjects with or without type 2 DM ( 86 - 88 ). The EMPEROR-Reduced randomized placebo-controlled trial designed to study the effect of empagliflozin on cardiovascular and kidney outcomes across the spectrum of kidney function demonstrated a significant reduction in cardiovascular death, heart failure hospitalization, and total heart failure hospitalization among empagliflozin-treated patients compared with their placebo-treated counterparts at a median follow up of 16 months. A reduction in the composite kidney outcome (defined as sustained profound decline in eGFR, chronic dialysis, or transplant) was also observed among patients randomized to receive empagliflozin irrespective of baseline renal function (HR for patients with vs. without CKD: 0.53 vs. 0.46, respectively, p=0.78) ( 89 ). Whether the cardiorenal benefits of SGLT2i seen in the general population can be extrapolated to the transplant
