Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation
KEYWORDS: diabetes, transplant, ptdm, pubmed, transplantation, recipients, kidney, patients, transplant recipients, risk, heart, associated, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, study


be due to SGLT2i induced afferent arteriolar vasoconstriction. It is suggested that the natriuretic effect of SGLT2i leads to increased tubuloglomerular feedback and afferent arteriolar vasoconstriction even in denervated kidney allograft ( 95 ). Whether the resultant reduction in intraglomerular hypertension and hyperfiltration play a role in reducing proteinuria and preserving eGFR in diabetic kidney transplant recipients warrants further investigation. Distal limb amputation and Fournier gangrene associated with SGLT2i use have not consistently been demonstrated. Randomized controlled trials comparing the advantages and disadvantages of different classes of anti-diabetic drugs in the setting of solid organ transplantation are lacking. Current recommendations are largely based on lessons learned from the general population. Metformin is a therapeutic option for solid organ transplant recipients at low risk for cardiorenal outcomes. For those at moderate to high risk for cardiorenal outcomes novel antidiabetic therapies should strongly be considered before metformin ( 12 ). GLP-1 RAs should be considered in transplant recipients with established ASCVD or multiple CVD risk factors whereas SGLT2is may be the preferred agent for those with a history of heart failure. Its use may have the added benefit of renoprotection independent of its glucose-lowering effects. Thiazolidinediones are better options than sulfonylureas and meglitinides (hypoglycemic risk). The latter two drug classes have the lowest priority for clinical use ( 12 ). Failure to achieve glycemic control despite 2-3 antidiabetic combination therapy generally requires initiation of insulin therapy. Suggested screening, diagnosis, and management of early posttransplant hyperglycemia and PTDM is shown in Figure 5 (practice varies among centers). Figure 5. Suggested screening and management of PTDM (opinion-based). 1 American Heart Association guidelines. AHA , American Heart Association. SUMMARY PTDM is a common complication after solid organ transplantation and has variably been reported to be associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Risk stratification, intervention to minimize risk and early diagnosis may alleviate the incidence of PTDM and improve outcomes following solid organ transplantation. The 2024 international consensus guidelines propose early OGTT at 10-13 week post-transplantation for screening and diagnosis of PTDM and IGT. Nonetheless, OGTT is infrequently performed in clinical practice except in the setting of living donor evaluation because of inconvenience and cost. In contrast, A1C should be interpreted with caution in the early post transplantation period. A normal A1C does not exclude the diagnosis of PTDM in the presence of early posttransplant anemia and/or dynamic kidney allograft function. The use of A1C for
