Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: colon, video, spatiotemporal, maps, gastrointestinal, using, spatiotemporal maps, motility, cmmcs, tissue, bath, colonic, mice, select, analysis


Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com Video Article Video Imaging and Spatiotemporal Maps to Analyze Gastrointestinal Motility in Mice Mathusi Swaminathan*1, Elisa Hill-Yardin*1, Melina Ellis1, Matthew Zygorodimos2, Leigh A. Johnston3, Rachel M. Gwynne1, Joel C. Bornstein1 * These authors contributed equally Correspondence to: Joel C. Bornstein at URL: DOI: doi: Keywords: Neuroscience, Issue 108, Gastrointestinal motility, Colonic migrating motor complexes (CMMCs), spatiotemporal maps, enteric nervous system (ENS), video-imaging, pharmacology, synaptic disorders, mouse, genetic mutation, neuroligin-3 Date Published: [DATE] Citation: Swaminathan, M., Hill-Yardin, E., Ellis, M., Zygorodimos, M., Johnston, L.A., Gwynne, R.M., Bornstein, J.C. Video Imaging and Spatiotemporal Maps to Analyze Gastrointestinal Motility in Mice. J. Vis. Exp. (108), e53828, doi: (2016). Abstract The enteric nervous system (ENS) plays an important role in regulating gastrointestinal (GI) motility and can function independently of the central nervous system. Changes in ENS function are a major cause of GI symptoms and disease and may contribute to GI symptoms reported in neuropsychiatric disorders including autism. It is well established that isolated colon segments generate spontaneous, rhythmic contractions known as Colonic Migrating Motor Complexes (CMMCs). A procedure to analyze the enteric neural regulation of CMMCs in ex vivo preparations of mouse colon is described. The colon is dissected from the animal and flushed to remove fecal content prior to being cannulated in an organ bath. Data is acquired via a video camera positioned above the organ bath and converted to high-resolution spatiotemporal maps via an in- house software package. Using this technique, baseline contractile patterns and pharmacological effects on ENS function in colon segments can be compared over 3-4 hr. In addition, propagation length and speed of CMMCs can be recorded as well as changes in gut diameter and contraction frequency. This technique is useful for characterizing gastrointestinal motility patterns in transgenic mouse models (and in other species including rat and guinea pig). In this way, pharmacologically induced changes in CMMCs are recorded in wild type mice and in the Neuroligin-3R451C mouse model of autism. Furthermore, this technique can be applied to other regions of the GI tract including the duodenum, jejunum and ileum and at different developmental ages in mice. Video Link The video component of this article can be found at Introduction The enteric nervous system (ENS) is the intrinsic neuronal network of the gastrointestinal tract and modulates various functions such as digestion of intestinal content, absorption of nutrients and the secretion and reabsorption of
