Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: colon, video, spatiotemporal, maps, gastrointestinal, using, spatiotemporal maps, motility, cmmcs, tissue, bath, colonic, mice, select, analysis


system (ENS) is the intrinsic neuronal network of the gastrointestinal tract and modulates various functions such as digestion of intestinal content, absorption of nutrients and the secretion and reabsorption of fluid. Neurons of the ENS are located in the myenteric and submucosal plexuses. The myenteric plexus plays a major role in regulating gastrointestinal motility1 whereas the submucosal plexus is primarily involved in the control of secretion2,3. The myenteric plexus is situated between the longitudinal and circular muscle layers of the gastrointestinal wall. The contractile activity of the smooth muscle layers of the intestinal wall facilitates the primary functions of the gastrointestinal tract by mixing and propelling intestinal content along the length of the intestine3. Although the extrinsic nerve supply to the gastrointestinal tract from the CNS contributes to gastrointestinal function in vivo, the ENS is capable of regulating gastrointestinal function independently. This unique characteristic enables the functional investigation of enteric neuronal circuits and their contribution to gastrointestinal motility ex vivo. Colonic migrating motor complexes (CMMCs) are spontaneous, neurogenic events that are the predominant motor pattern observed in isolated mouse colon in the absence of fecal pellets4-9. CMMCs are defined as rhythmic contractions that propagate along a horizontal distance that is at least half the total length of the colon (i.e., from the cecum to the rectum)10. The relationship between CMMCs and the contractile patterns that propel fecal pellets is yet to be clearly established, however some pharmacological differences have been reported11. Nevertheless, the ability of the ENS to function independently of the CNS and the existence of neural-mediated motor patterns in the isolated colon provides an ideal assay system to examine disturbances in motility resulting from underlying ENS dysfunction. The spontaneity of gastrointestinal motor patterns allows functional changes in response to pharmacological stimuli to be evaluated. The use of video imaging and spatiotemporal mapping was first developed to quantitatively examine small intestinal peristalsis in guinea pigs12. Here, an ex vivo technique is described that enables the study of mouse colonic motility patterns using video imaging and analysis of these recordings to construct high-resolution (~100 µm, 33 msec) maps of colonic diameter as a function of position along the colon and of time (spatiotemporal maps). Using in-house edge detection software (Analyse2; available on request), data from full length colonic segments Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com contracting in real time are processed to generate spatiotemporal maps for each experiment. In this step,
