Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: colon, video, spatiotemporal, maps, gastrointestinal, using, spatiotemporal maps, motility, cmmcs, tissue, bath, colonic, mice, select, analysis


available on request), data from full length colonic segments Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com contracting in real time are processed to generate spatiotemporal maps for each experiment. In this step, video (AVI) files are summarized and converted to spatiotemporal maps using Analyse2. Spatiotemporal maps (Figure 2) depict contractility over time and enable the measurement of multiple parameters including propagation speed, magnitude, length and duration. Gut diameter is also recorded throughout the duration of the experiment as a measure of the overall contractility of the tissue segment. This method can be applied to identify differences in the point of initiation of contractile complexes which could indicate altered enteric neural connectivity. A similar video imaging protocol designed to assess pellet propulsion in guinea pigs has been reported13 however here we outline the application of the video imaging approach for quantification of spontaneous colonic motility (i.e., in the absence of pellets). We also provide detailed information to assist in the dissection and preparation of gastrointestinal tissue for the video imaging approach. This protocol provides researchers with an accessible and easily replicated tool for analyzing enteric neural control of gastrointestinal function in animal models of disease including genetic mouse models. The video imaging technique enables the analysis of colonic motility in response to various pharmacological agents. Drugs can be administered via the gut lumen or the organ bath external to the colonic preparation. Different regions of the mouse gastrointestinal tract exhibit specific motility patterns such as small intestinal segmentation and CMMCs in the colon. This technique has been used to identify strain differences in small intestinal function; differential sensitivity to 5-HT and 5-HT antagonists were 3 4 observed in the jejunum of Balb/c and C57/Bl6 mice due to the polymorphic nature of the tph2 gene expressed in the two strains6. The effect of 5-HT inhibition on motility remains controversial, as conflicting data has been reported on the importance of endogenous 5-HT on colonic peristalsis and CMMCs14,15. Alterations in motility pre- and postnatally during development7, and the effects of gene mutations on gastrointestinal motility in animal models of disease10 can also be examined by utilizing video imaging. Here we illustrate use of the method for a study of colonic motility in the NL3R451C mouse model of autism, which expresses a missense mutation in the Nlgn3 gene encoding the synaptic adhesion protein Neuroligin-316. This mutation was first identified in patients diagnosed with Autism spectrum disorder (ASD)17,
