Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: colon, video, spatiotemporal, maps, gastrointestinal, using, spatiotemporal maps, motility, cmmcs, tissue, bath, colonic, mice, select, analysis


of autism, which expresses a missense mutation in the Nlgn3 gene encoding the synaptic adhesion protein Neuroligin-316. This mutation was first identified in patients diagnosed with Autism spectrum disorder (ASD)17, which is strongly associated with GI dysfunction18-22. We investigated whether the NL3 R451C synaptic mutation affects neural outputs in the ENS using the video imaging technique. We present data characterizing CMMCs at baseline and in response to the serotonergic 5HT receptor antagonist tropisetronin the 3/4 NL3R451C mouse model of autism. Protocol Animal handling and cervical dislocation of animals prior to all experiments were performed strictly according to protocols approved by the Animal Experimentation Committee for the University of Melbourne (Ethics ID: 1212494.7) 1. Tissue Collection and Dissection 1. Euthanize adult mice by cervical dislocation. If possible avoid anesthesia to prevent influences on gut function via receptors located on neuronal populations of interest. 2. Record the animal's total body weight, pin the body (via the four paws, ventral side exposed to experimenter) firmly to a dissection board using hypodermic needles (Size: 20 G). 3. Using dissecting forceps and scissors; make an incision through the epidermis overlaying the lower abdominal muscle layers. Continue to use the forceps and scissors to open the abdominal cavity along the midline of the abdomen to the sternum. 4. To prevent the tissue dehydrating, pour physiological saline (Krebs solution: 118 NaCl, 4.6 KCl, 2.5 CaCl , 1.2 MgSO , 1 NaH PO , 25 2 4 2 4 NaHCO , 11 D-glucose in mM - bubbled at RT with carbogen gas; 95% O and 5% CO for a minimum of 20 min) onto abdominal contents at 3 2 2 regular intervals (i.e., every 30-60 sec) during the dissection process. 5. To isolate the colon while attached to the cecum and rectum, hold the cecum (located adjacent to the proximal end of colon) gently using dissecting forceps approximately 4-5 cm above the body of the animal while trimming the mesentery using fine dissection scissors. 6. Take care not to handle, stretch or cut the gastrointestinal tissue while removing the adjoining mesentery. 7. Remove excess tissue (i.e., urinary bladder and testes). Using coarse dissecting scissors, make two vertical incisions (i.e., approximately 0.5 cm from the midline) to cut the pelvic bone on each side of the colon. 8. Use fine scissors to separate the rectum from adjoining pelvic tissue and trim surrounding muscle from the colon. 9. Place the
