Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: colon, video, spatiotemporal, maps, gastrointestinal, using, spatiotemporal maps, motility, cmmcs, tissue, bath, colonic, mice, select, analysis


pelvic bone on each side of the colon. 8. Use fine scissors to separate the rectum from adjoining pelvic tissue and trim surrounding muscle from the colon. 9. Place the full-length colon (from cecum to rectum) into a beaker containing physiological saline (previously oxygenated with carbogen) and continue to oxygenate at RT. Remove the caecum and rectum using fine dissecting scissors and replace in beaker. 10. Empty fecal pellets/intestinal content from colonic preparations by applying gentle positive pressure at the oral end using a 5 ml syringe attached to a 200 µl pipette tip filled with physiological saline. In order to orientate the tissue in future, use an insect pin to mark the most proximal end of the colon, where striations in the mucosa are visible. 1. Modify the plastic pipette tip to fit the 5 ml syringe by removing approximately 1 cm of the widest/proximal end using a razor blade. To increase the flow rate, widen the distal/smaller end by cutting on an angle (approximately 45 °C) using a razor blade. 11. Grip the colon tissue gently at its proximal end with dissecting forceps, insert the pipette tip into the lumen of the colon and flush physiological saline through the lumen. 2. Preparation of Colonic Tissue and Experimental Set Up for Video Imaging 1. Flush physiological saline through all tubing attached to a two chambered organ bath set up (Figure 1 and Figure 3), using a syringe attached to a 200 µl pipette tip. This step removes any debris within the tubing that could block the flow of solution. For tubing specifications refer to the materials table. 2. Ensure that the chambers of the organ bath are continuously superfused with physiological saline bubbled with carbogen (95% O and 5% CO , flow rate of 5 ml min-1). Using a temperature probe at regular intervals, ensure that the temperature of the bath is maintained between 33 °C -37 °C. Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com 3. Fill the inflow reservoir connected via a 3-way stopcock to the inlet tube with approximately 20-30 ml physiological saline using a 50 ml syringe. 4. During the experiment, maintain the pressure in the inflow reservoir using arubber stopper with a glass tube (5 mm inside diameter) inserted through its center. Make sure that the upper opening of the inflow reservoir is securely sealed (with the inner glass tube remaining unsealed). 5. Place the colon (length
