Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: colon, video, spatiotemporal, maps, gastrointestinal, using, spatiotemporal maps, motility, cmmcs, tissue, bath, colonic, mice, select, analysis


diameter) inserted through its center. Make sure that the upper opening of the inflow reservoir is securely sealed (with the inner glass tube remaining unsealed). 5. Place the colon (length 5-7 cm) into the organ bath chamber, making sure that it is fully submerged in physiological saline. 6. Cannulate each end of the colonic segment to the two submerged inlet/outlet tubes (inlet/outlet tubes of different diameter can be changed according to the size of the tissue lumen eg. postnatal tissue, adult mice and guinea pig) in the bath using standard cotton sewing thread. Attach the proximal end of the colon to the inlet tube and the distal end of the colon to the outlet tube (connected via a 3-way stopcock to a vertical outflow tube; 6 cm in height). Make sure that the tissue is not overstretched or too relaxed after cannulation to avoid interference with future measurements and analysis. 7. Record the length of the colon by measuring the distance between the proximal and distal cannulations using a 15 cm ruler. This is important for interpreting changes in contraction length, propagation speed and contraction initiation points. 8. Ensure a stable baseline luminal pressure (cm H O) is established before beginning the experiment. Calculate luminal pressure by measuring the vertical distance from the tissue to the meniscus of physiological saline within the glass tube of inflow reservoir (oral) and the vertical outflow tube (anal). 9. Maintain tissue preparations at a constant intraluminal pressure (e.g., 1-2 cm H O) by ensuring that the inflow stopper seal pressure is kept constant and that no blockages are present in the set up. 10. Leave the colon to equilibrate in physiological saline for 30 min before recording intestinal movements. Check for any blockages arising in the in- or outflow tubes and remove them by applying pressure through the inflow reservoir or by re-cannulating the oral and anal ends of the colon. 3. Image Capture and Experimental Protocol 1. Record intestinal movements as video files using a video camera (30 frames/sec, 640 x 840 pixels) positioned 10-15 cm above the organ bath on a standard laboratory retort stand (Figure 1). 2. Open Virtual Dub (video capture software) from the icon on the desktop. From the 'File' tab, select 'capture AVI' to view the camera image. On the 'Audio' tab deselect 'enable audio capture' to disable sound. 1. In the video tab select 'compression' and 'DivX6.9.2.
