Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: colon, video, spatiotemporal, maps, gastrointestinal, using, spatiotemporal maps, motility, cmmcs, tissue, bath, colonic, mice, select, analysis


'File' tab, select 'capture AVI' to view the camera image. On the 'Audio' tab deselect 'enable audio capture' to disable sound. 1. In the video tab select 'compression' and 'DivX6.9.2. Codec' to compress video files to minimize usage of storage space. This function will become available upon the installation of the compression software 'DivX'. 3. Manually adjust the camera location so that the entire cannulated colon segment is visible (with cannulated regions immediately adjacent to the vertical edges of the video frame) via the video capture software window (see Figure 1). In order to improve image quality and minimize reflections, attach a paper/cardboard shield to the camera support to block extraneous light onto the organ bath. Optimize video quality by adjusting the brightness, contrast and exposure settings using the camera software interface. 1. Before recording, set a specific file name; in the 'File' tab, select 'Set capture file' and specify a unique name for the video. 2. Begin capturing video by pressing 'Capture file' from the 'Capture' tool bar. To stop recording select the 'Stop capture' button or the 'Esc' key on the keyboard. 4. Replace the physiological saline contained within the inflow reservoir with fresh physiological saline every 30 min. 1. Record luminal pressure (see 2.9) and using a temperature probe, take note of the organ bath temperature. Repeat these steps throughout the experiment (i.e., every 30 min) to ensure that these variables are constant. 5. Record colonic activity in total for 3 hr (including drug application and washout duration). For data storage purposes, record data in 15 min video segments. A full experiment will typically be composed of 12 x 15 min video recordings. 1. Record activity for 1 hr under control conditions (physiological saline). 2. Apply the drug (either superfused into the bath or administered into the lumen via the inflow reservoir) for 30 min to 1 hr. Note: Different routes of administration can yield different effects23. 3. Apply fresh physiological saline to the bath or lumen during a 1 hr washout period. 4. Data Processing and Generation of Spatiotemporal Maps 1. Process each video recording offline using in-house software written in MATLAB (R2012a, Version 7.4; available on request) in order to generate spatiotemporal maps illustrating colonic motility. 1. Open analysis software from the icon on the desktop. 2. In the command window, enter "Analyse2" in order to open the analysis control panel. 2. Utilize the edge
