Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: colon, video, spatiotemporal, maps, gastrointestinal, using, spatiotemporal maps, motility, cmmcs, tissue, bath, colonic, mice, select, analysis


motility. 1. Open analysis software from the icon on the desktop. 2. In the command window, enter "Analyse2" in order to open the analysis control panel. 2. Utilize the edge detection function to generate spatiotemporal maps by clicking "Edge detection for .avi files" in the control panel window. This function will enable the analysis software to read the recoded videos in Audio Video Interleaved (AVI) format. 3. Carry out the following steps sequentially to generate spatiotemporal maps using an adaptive edge detection algorithm. 1. Open recorded video files by selecting the "Add files" tab, select 'Open video' and select the location of the video files. 2. From the video files listed within the analysis software, select the file of interest. 3. Select a rectangular region of interest within the frame of the video, e.g., the entire length of the colon, from the point at which the colon is cannulated orally to the anal cannulation. Ensure that the proximal and distal cannulation points are adjacent to the vertical boundaries of the region of interest. Edge detection lines (red and green) will automatically appear superimposed on the real time image. 4. Ensure that the edge detection threshold lines are immediately adjacent to the colon on both the upper and lower boundaries of the colon tissue (this can be optimized for each video by altering detection threshold values on the control panel). Ensure that the edge detection lines are continuous along the length of the colon image by adjusting the contrast and brightness using the control panel. Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com 5. Enter the full length of the colon (mm) into the width dialog box (as recorded in step 2.7). Then select "Generate heat map". 6. In the pop up window, select a location for the file to be saved and specify a file name for the spatiotemporal map. 7. Select the '.su2' format and select 'Add to queue'. Note: .su2 format compresses data to a smaller file size and multiple video files can be added to the queue. 8. Select 'Begin detection' to generate spatiotemporal maps. 5. Analysis of Spatiotemporal Maps 1. Utilize spatiotemporal maps to estimate parameters such as frequency, propagation speed, length and duration of CMMCs, gut diameter and the point of initiation and direction of contractions. 1. To start analyzing spatiotemporal maps, type 'analyse2' in the command window as described in the previous section. Instead of "Edge detection",
