Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: colon, video, spatiotemporal, maps, gastrointestinal, using, spatiotemporal maps, motility, cmmcs, tissue, bath, colonic, mice, select, analysis


the point of initiation and direction of contractions. 1. To start analyzing spatiotemporal maps, type 'analyse2' in the command window as described in the previous section. Instead of "Edge detection", select the "Heat map analysis" button. 2. Open spatiotemporal map files (.su2 files) by selecting the 'Add files' tab and specifying the location of previously obtained .su2 files. 3. Once the spatiotemporal map is visible on the screen, specify a color range on the control panel, ensuring that the minimum is set to 1. Note that the maximum can range from 5-10 according to the contractility of the tissue. 4. Select 'Lock color range' to ensure all the maps from a single experiment are analyzed under the same conditions. 5. Ensure that the time frame settings are constant for all spatiotemporal maps from a given experiment. 2. In order to determine CMMC frequency, manually count contractions that traverse more than 50% of the length of the colon. These contractions can be visualized as red/orange streaks (standard HSV color index) on the spatiotemporal map (see Figure 2 for an example). Other contractions that are shorter or do not propagate can also be identified and quantified. 3. If desired, conduct further analysis at a higher resolution from these maps. For example, detailed properties including the speed and duration of each contraction can be examined. 1. In order to measure the speed and duration, select the "Annotate contraction waves" button on the heat map analysis control panel. 2. Next, zoom in to each CMMC by clicking on the "Zoom" button and selecting the area of interest. Then select the "Manually annotate" button to annotate each contraction by using the mouse to draw a line from the most initial position to the end of each contraction. This method can be used to measure the apparent propagation speed and duration of dilations that appear to propagate (for e.g., see anal end of maps in Figure 2A, 2B). Note: The data for speed and duration will appear under the results window. These values can be transferred to a spreadsheet of interest by selecting the "Export data" tab. Unwanted annotations can be removed by clicking on the "Remove selected annotations" button. 4. If desired, utilize the x and y coordinates of the spatiotemporal maps (time and position along the colon, respectively) to determine the position of initiation of small contractions or CMMCs. 5. Similarly, in order to
