Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: colon, video, spatiotemporal, maps, gastrointestinal, using, spatiotemporal maps, motility, cmmcs, tissue, bath, colonic, mice, select, analysis


and y coordinates of the spatiotemporal maps (time and position along the colon, respectively) to determine the position of initiation of small contractions or CMMCs. 5. Similarly, in order to determine intervals between contractions, use the "Annotate" function to measure the duration between contractions. As previously, these results can be exported to a spreadsheet by selecting the "Export data" tab. 6. In order to measure the resting gut width, select the "Take cross section" button on the Heat map analysis panel. 1. Select 'Add' on the temporal cross sections panel. Double click at any location within the map to generate a horizontal line superimposed on the heat map. Gut diameter data will now be displayed in a new window. 2. To measure gut diameter, place the cursor on a peak and adjacent trough to obtain average gut width for a specific experimental condition. Changes in gut diameter can be compared between experimental conditions. Representative Results Up to 90% of patients with ASD experience an array of gastrointestinal disorders, including diarrhea and constipation18,24,25. However, the underlying causes of these gastrointestinal issues are unknown. Many mutations identified in patients with ASD are associated with synaptic proteins contributing to alterations and disturbances in synaptic transmission or function. One such mutation, in the gene coding for the cell adhesion molecule neuroligin-3 (NL3 R451C), was identified in two brothers with ASD17. This mutation results in an arginine residue at position 451 of the Neuroligin protein being replaced with a Cysteine. NL3R451C mice expressing this mutation show increased GABA mediated transmission in the somatosensory cortex16,26 alongside increased AMPA and NMDA receptor mediated activity within the hippocampus25,27. Neuroligin proteins are present in enteric neurons28-30. As the enteric nervous system plays a major role in regulating gastrointestinal function, we postulated that the R451C mutation would affect motility. Therefore, in order to investigate possible alterations in gastrointestinal functions due to synaptic abnormalities we sought to examine the effects of the R451C mutation on CMMC frequency in these mice. Because serotonin (5-HT) acts on the ENS to modulate gastrointestinal function in mice6 we analyzed motility patterns in response to the 5-HT 3/4 receptor antagonist tropisetron in colonic preparations from WT and NL3R451C mice. To assess whether the synaptic mutation alters CMMCs when the enteric nervous system is pharmacologically perturbed, the 5HT receptor 3/4 antagonistTropisetron (Trop; 10 µM, which blocks both 5HT3 and 5HT receptors) was added to the bath containing
