Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: colon, video, spatiotemporal, maps, gastrointestinal, using, spatiotemporal maps, motility, cmmcs, tissue, bath, colonic, mice, select, analysis


CMMCs when the enteric nervous system is pharmacologically perturbed, the 5HT receptor 3/4 antagonistTropisetron (Trop; 10 µM, which blocks both 5HT3 and 5HT receptors) was added to the bath containing the colon preparations (Figure 2). Colonic tissue from nineteen age matched male mice (11 WT and 8 NL3R451C) was used. In the presence of tropisetron, NL3R451C mice showed a decrease in CMMC frequency compared to WT littermates. Representative examples of spatiotemporal maps showing CMMCs and contractile activity in WT and NL3R451C colon preparations are shown in Figures 2A to 2E respectively. Although no difference was observed between WT and NL3R451C during control conditions, tropisetron significantly reduced CMMC frequency in both WT and NL3R451C mice (Figure 2C, 2F). In WT mice, the median number of CMMCs was 23 in control conditions compared to 15 in tropisetron (p = 0.023). In NL3 mice, the median number of CMMCs in control conditions was 19.5 compared with 2 in the presence of tropisetron (p = 0.022). In addition, tropisetron had a larger effect on the frequency of CMMCs in NL3R451C mice compared to WT (p = 0.047). Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com Figure 1. Organ bath set up and generation of spatiotemporal maps. (A) A freshly dissected gastrointestinal segment is placed in an organ bath (cross sectional view) containing physiological saline and cannulated at oral and anal ends. The oral cannula is connected to an inflow reservoir filled with physiological saline and the anal cannula connected to an outflow tube. A video camera is positioned above the organ bath in order to record contractile activity of the colon. (B) motility is converted to high resolution spatiotemporal maps labeling regions of the colon that are dilated in blue and constricted regions in red. (C) A spatiotemporal map showing colonic motility (CMMCs) from an adult WT mouse. Individual CMMCs are indicated as red vertical regions within the map. The X axis shows time increasing (0-15 min). The Y axis represents the Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com Figure 2. Spatiotemporal maps show increased sensitivity to Tropisetron in NL3R451C mouse colon. Spatiotemporal maps showing CMMC frequency in colon segments from WT controls (A) and in the presence of Tropisetron (Trop; B). Trop reduced CMMC frequency in WT colon (C). Spatiotemporal maps from NL3 colon under control conditions (D) and in the presence of Trop (E). Trop caused a strong reduction in CMMC frequency in NL3 colon (F). CMMC
