Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: colon, video, spatiotemporal, maps, gastrointestinal, using, spatiotemporal maps, motility, cmmcs, tissue, bath, colonic, mice, select, analysis


(C). Spatiotemporal maps from NL3 colon under control conditions (D) and in the presence of Trop (E). Trop caused a strong reduction in CMMC frequency in NL3 colon (F). CMMC frequency in response to Trop was significantly reduced in NL3 compared with WT colon (p = 0.047, not shown). Gut width (pixel color) is indicated on the Y axis (arbitrary units, range 1-6). Scale bar in E applies to all maps. Trop; Tropisetron. Please Figure 3. Schematic of organ bath. (A) Top view, (B) Underside, (C) Front view, (D) Side view, of a two chambered organ bath set up. Discussion Using this video imaging technique, CMMC frequency was measured as an indication of colonic motility in wild type and NL3R451C mice, a mouse model of autism spectrum disorder17. Our results indicate a reduction in the number of CMMCs in mutant NL3R451C mice compared to wild type mice in the presence of the 5HT receptor antagonist Tropisetron suggesting that NL3R451C mice exhibit an increased sensitivity to Tropisetron. 3/4 Accordingly, we propose that the neuroligin-3 R451C mutation alters the serotonin pathway, potentially by modulating either 5HT or 5HT 3 4 receptor function in enteric neurons, the mucosa or both. This highlights the method's value for identification of phenotypic differences between genotypes and for identification of specific targets for subsequent studies. This method can be modified to enhance spatial resolution by acquiring videos via a stereo-microscope fitted with a camera mount. This approach enables recordings to be made from small preparations of the gastrointestinal tract at embryonic time points as early as E12.531. Neuromodulators can be applied via the lumen or in the organ bath external to the colonic preparation. Furthermore, this method is useful for assessing both large and small gastrointestinal motility in a range of species including mice, rats and guinea pig. Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com Common troubleshooting steps for this method include verifying the flow of solution via the tubing, viability of the tissue preparation, maintenance of constant luminal pressure and ensuring that colon segments are located away from the walls of the organ bath. Blockages within the tubing can alter luminal pressure and prevent contractions from occurring; therefore all tubes must be cleaned thoroughly to remove salt crystals or debris/fecal matter before cannulation. Air must be removed from tubing lines directly associated with the cannula prior to experiments (i.e., by priming the tubes with saline). In addition, tissue
