Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: colon, video, spatiotemporal, maps, gastrointestinal, using, spatiotemporal maps, motility, cmmcs, tissue, bath, colonic, mice, select, analysis


or debris/fecal matter before cannulation. Air must be removed from tubing lines directly associated with the cannula prior to experiments (i.e., by priming the tubes with saline). In addition, tissue preparations must be handled with care in order to prevent damage resulting in immobility of the colon. To avoid tissue damage, ensure that the colon is firmly (but not tightly) attached to the cannula during the recording process and maintain a constant temperature and a continuous supply of CO + O to the bath. Also ensure that the luminal pressure is kept constant and that 2 2 no contractions are manually initiated by adjusting inflow reservoirs during the recording period. Ensure that the colon tissue does not contact the wall of the organ bath during contractions as this will prevent edge detection analysis of the relevant spatiotemporal maps. This can be avoided by monitoring the contractions during the equilibration period and adjusting the position of the colon to prevent this from occurring during the experiment. Several limitations associated with this technique should be taken in to consideration when analyzing and interpreting the data including the low throughput nature of this approach. While the method is effective in identifying changes in migrating motor patterns, it cannot determine whether dilations occurring during the progression of a CMMC are neurally mediated or simply passive responses to the contractile activity (i.e., resulting from the movement of fluid). The concentration gradients for diffusion across the colonic wall allow the effects of luminally applied drugs to be ascribed to actions within the mucosa, but in prolonged experiments mucosal degeneration may occur thereby altering the sites of action of these drugs over the recording period. Furthermore, whether drugs have distinct effects in the myenteric and submucosal plexuses cannot be determined using this method. In contrast, this approach enables a collective evaluation of effects on the enteric nervous system by measuring an overall change in motility patterns. Further considerations include the need to take into account the nature of the data (i.e., count data for CMMC frequency, requiring non-parametric analysis) and the low frequency of CMMCs, when designing experiments and appropriate data analysis strategies. Recently, Barnes and colleagues proposed that colonic tissue requires stimulation in order to observe CMMCs32, however published findings from our lab demonstrate that spontaneous CMMCs can be observed by simply pinning the tissue to the organ bath via the mesentery7. The presence of CMMCs
