Journal of Visualized Experiments www.jove.com
KEYWORDS: colon, video, spatiotemporal, maps, gastrointestinal, using, spatiotemporal maps, motility, cmmcs, tissue, bath, colonic, mice, select, analysis


CMMCs32, however published findings from our lab demonstrate that spontaneous CMMCs can be observed by simply pinning the tissue to the organ bath via the mesentery7. The presence of CMMCs under these conditions not only demonstrates the spontaneity of CMMCs, but further elaborates on the usefulness of this technique to establish changes in colonic motility. Although this approach is applicable to extra-colonic regions of the gastrointestinal tract, the complexity of small intestinal motility requires more detailed analysis strategies than those used for quantifying CMMCs33. This experimental approach has very high spatial and temporal resolution and includes the option of drug delivery both external to and inside the lumen for investigating the effects of varying concentration gradients on the enteric nervous system. Furthermore, this method is suitable for analyzing small intestinal segmentation during the fed state6,23. The ex vivo nature of this method enables the role of the enteric nervous system to be assessed in the absence of central nervous system inputs and is therefore an ideal way to investigate gastrointestinal motility in a variety of models, including genetic models of disease (see Figure 2)6,34. This method can also be used to compare physiological data to computer simulations of motor activity23,33,35. Such simulations can predict motor patterns in the form of spatiotemporal maps for direct comparisons with physiological experiments33,35. Using Fast Fourier Transform and wavelet analysis36, the contribution of smooth muscle pacemakers (generated by interstitial cells of Cajal) to motility can also be extracted. Furthermore, this video imaging technique can be combined with extracellular recording of electrical activity in the muscle3 to allow contributions of neural and myogenic pattern generators to be distinguished. Note, the extracellular recording method resolves inhibitory junction potentials in the absence of smooth muscle contractions or relaxations. While this technique is well established for the analysis of gastrointestinal motility in a wide range of preparations and species, it also has the potential to be used in other systems such as the study of vasoconstriction in the mesentery (previously analyzed via a simpler diameter tracking system37) and in skeletal muscle. Disclosures The authors have nothing to disclose Acknowledgements JCB and ELH-Y were supported by the US Department of Defense CDMRP Autism Research Program (AR11034). NHMRC (1047674) to ELH- technical contributions.
