ytaf648
KEYWORDS: pulmonary, pttm, cteph, tumour, cancer, cytology, wedge, wedge aspiration, pulmonary wedge, aspiration cytology, aspiration, pancreatic, months, diagnosed, pancreatic cancer


A 64-year-old woman with pancreatic cancer treated with chemotherapy presented with shortness of breath and cough over the past 5 months and was admitted due to a 2-week history of worsening dyspnoea and peripheral oedema. Transthoracic echocardiography found dilated right ventricle, interventricular septal flattening, and severe tricuspid regurgitation. Although contrast-enhanced computed tomography showed no evidence of pulmonary thromboembolism, pulmonary perfusion scintigraphy demonstrated multiple wedge-shaped defects in the peripheral regions of both lungs. Right heart catheterization confirmed pre-capillary PH, and pulmonary angiography revealed vascular narrowing of the peripheral pulmonary arteries. Based on the radiological findings and the relatively slow clinical course, CTEPH was initially suspected. However, pulmonary wedge aspiration cytology—performed by aspirating a blood sample via a Swan–Ganz catheter from the wedged position during right heart catheterization—revealed tumour cells, confirming the diagnosis of PTTM rather than CTEPH. Because of the poor prognosis, the patient received palliative care and died 2 months later. Discussion Pulmonary tumour thrombotic microangiopathy is a rare but fatal cause of PH and is rarely diagnosed antemortem. Pulmonary wedge aspiration cytology is a minimally invasive and valuable tool that helps differentiate PTTM from CTEPH and plays a crucial role in guiding both diagnosis and management. Keywords Pulmonary tumour thrombotic microangiopathy • Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension • Pulmonary hypertension • Pulmonary wedge aspiration cytology • Swan–Ganz catheter • Malignancy • Case report Learning points • Pulmonary tumour thrombotic microangiopathy (PTTM) is a malignancy-associated disease that causes fatal pulmonary hypertension and is rarely diagnosed antemortem. • Differentiating PTTM from chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) is often challenging due to their similar characteristics. • Pulmonary wedge aspiration cytology using a Swan–Ganz catheter is a minimally invasive and effective tool for obtaining pathological evidence to distinguish PTTM from CTEPH. Introduction Case presentation Pulmonary tumour thrombotic microangiopathy (PTTM) is a malignancy-associated disease that leads to fatal pulmonary hypertension (PH). Pulmonary tumour thrombotic microangiopathy is rarely diagnosed antemortem and is often difficult to distinguish from chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) due to their similar characteristics. We report a case of PTTM secondary to pancreatic cancer that was initially suspected as CTEPH, but ultimately diagnosed by pulmonary wedge aspiration cytology using a Swan–Ganz catheter. A 64-year-old woman was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer and lymph node metastases 4 months earlier and was treated with S-1 chemotherapy. She had also presented with dyspnoea and cough several months before being diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. Chest computed tomography (CT)
