Medications for Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: patients, dose, heart, ace, day, failure, heart failure, inhibitors, used, renal, orally, diuretics, inhibitor, ace inhibitors, function


Heart failure is a clinical syndrome in which the heart is not able to meet the metabolic demands of the body due to a structural and or functional cardiac abnormality, leading to low cardiac output, elevated ventricular filling pressure, or both (see Heart Failure). The primary medications for long-term management and improved survival in patients with heart failure, particularly heart failure with reduced ejection fraction, are: Beta-blockers Angiotensin receptor/neprilysin inhibitors (ARNIs) (or angiotensin converting enzyme [ACE] inhibitors or Angiotensin II receptor blockers [ARBs]) Sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists Additional medication classes used in patients with heart failure include: Digoxin Diuretics Inotopes Sinus node inhibitors Soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator Vasodilators (nitrates) All patients should be given clear and explicit information about their medications, including the following: The importance of timely prescription renewal The importance of adherence to therapy How to recognize adverse effects When to contact their physician (See also Acute Heart Failure - Treatment, Chronic Heart Failure - Treatment, and Right Heart Failure for more information about medication selection.) Classes of Medications for Heart Failure Beta-blockers Beta-blockers act by competitively inhibiting beta-adrenergic receptors. Bisoprolol and metoprolol are considered cardioselective beta-blockers, primarily acting on beta-1 adrenergic receptors. Carvedilol, a nonselective beta-blocker, is also a vasodilator with alpha-blocking and antioxidant effects. Beta- blockers produce a negative inotropic and chronotropic effect that reduces myocardial oxygen demand, modestly reduces left ventricular afterload, and moderates the release of catecholamines in response to stress. In patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF), beta-blockers, unless otherwise contraindicated (by asthma, second-degree or third-degree atrioventricular block, or previous significant intolerance), are a mainstay of treatment (1, 2). In acute decompensated HFrEF, beta-blockers are best started once the patient has stabilized and has no evidence of pulmonary congestion. For patients with HFrEF and acute heart failure exacerbation who are already taking a beta-blocker, the dose should not be decreased or stopped unless necessary. Specific beta-blockers such as carvedilol and metoprolol succinate (ie, long-acting metoprolol) improve left ventricular ejection fraction, survival, and other major cardiovascular outcomes in patients with chronic HFrEF, including those with severe symptoms. After initial treatment, heart rate and myocardial oxygen consumption decrease, and stroke volume and filling pressure are unchanged. With the slower heart rate, diastolic function improves. Ventricular filling returns to a more normal pattern (increasing in early diastole), which appears less restrictive. Improved myocardial function is measurable in some patients after
