Medications for Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: patients, dose, heart, ace, day, failure, heart failure, inhibitors, used, renal, orally, diuretics, inhibitor, ace inhibitors, function


heart rate, diastolic function improves. Ventricular filling returns to a more normal pattern (increasing in early diastole), which appears less restrictive. Improved myocardial function is measurable in some patients after 6 to 12 months but may take longer; ejection fraction (EF) and cardiac output increase, and LV filling pressure decreases. Exercise capacity improves. In patients with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF), beta-blockers are not generally recommended, although they can be used for rate control in atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response, or for control of hypertension in patients with coronary artery disease or prior myocardial infarction (1, 2). The starting dose should be low (one-fourth of the target daily dose), then the dose is gradually increased over 8 weeks as tolerated. The acute negative inotropic effects of beta-blockade may initially cause cardiac depression and fluid retention. In such cases, a temporary increase in diuretic dose and slower upward titration of the beta-blocker dose is warranted. Tolerance may improve over time, and efforts should be made to reach target doses. Usual oral target doses are carvedilol 25 mg twice a day (50 mg twice a day for patients ≥ 85 kg), bisoprolol 10 mg once a day, or metoprolol succinate (extended-release) 200 mg once a day. Renin-angiotensin system inhibiting medications Angiotensin receptor/neprilysin inhibitors (ARNIs) ARNIs are a combination medication for the treatment of heart failure. They include an ARB and a neprilysin inhibitor (eg, sacubitril). The ARB portion blocks the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone axis at the level of the angiotensin II receptor. Neprilysin is an enzyme involved in the breakdown of vasoactive substances such as brain (B-type) natriuretic peptide (BNP) and other peptides. By inhibiting the breakdown of BNP and other beneficial vasoactive peptides, these medications lower blood pressure, decrease afterload, and enhance natriuresis. Because neprilysin inhibitors increase BNP levels, NTproBNP levels (which are not increased by the medication) should be used instead to help diagnose and manage heart failure. In patients with HFrEF, the ARNI sacubitril/valsartan reduces all-cause mortality and should be considered in all patients with HFrEF (1, 2). It is preferred over an ACE inhibitor or ARB if tolerated, and evidence supports early transition of patients from an ACE inhibitor or ARB to ARNI, even in the hospital setting. In patients with HFpEF, sacubitril/valsartan may be considered, particularly in specific subgroups (women and patients with left ventricular ejection fraction below 57%). The starting dose of sacubitril/valsartan is 49/51
