Medications for Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: patients, dose, heart, ace, day, failure, heart failure, inhibitors, used, renal, orally, diuretics, inhibitor, ace inhibitors, function


setting. In patients with HFpEF, sacubitril/valsartan may be considered, particularly in specific subgroups (women and patients with left ventricular ejection fraction below 57%). The starting dose of sacubitril/valsartan is 49/51 mg orally twice a day for patients previously taking an ACE inhibitor or ARB, and 24/26 mg for patients previously taking a low dose of an ACE inhibitor or ARB (eg, ≤ 10 mg enalapril daily) or in those patients who have not taken an ACE inhibitor or an ARB or who have low or borderline blood pressure. ACE inhibitors should be discontinued 36 hours before initiation of sacubitril/valsartan. Patients previously taking an ARB can simply switch to sacubitril/valsartan without a washout period. Complications associated with use of ARNI include hypotension, hyperkalemia, renal insufficiency, and angioedema. Sacubitril is coupled with valsartan (an ARB) because of the increased risk of angioedema with the use of sacubitril alone or in combination with an ACE inhibitor. For this reason, combined ACE inhibitor plus ARNI therapy is absolutely contraindicated. Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors All patients with HFrEF should be given oral ACE inhibitors unless contraindicated. ACE inhibitors reduce production of angiotensin II and breakdown of bradykinin, mediators that affect the sympathetic nervous system, endothelial function, vascular tone, and myocardial performance. Hemodynamic effects include: Arterial and venous vasodilation Sustained decreases in LV filling pressure during rest and exercise Decreased systemic vascular resistance Favorable effects on ventricular remodeling ACE inhibitors prolong survival and reduce hospitalizations due to heart failure (1, 2). In patients with HRrEF, their current role is as a second-line agent for those who cannot tolerate ARNi or those for whom ARNi is not available, cost-prohibitive, or otherwise unfeasible. For patients with HRpEF, ACE inhibitors are not typically initiated unless they are already being used for other indications such as atherosclerosis, hypertension, and diabetic nephropathy. The starting dose typically should be low (usually one-fourth to one-half of the target dose depending on blood pressure and renal function); the dose is gradually adjusted upward over 8 weeks as tolerated, then continued indefinitely. Usual target doses of representative medications include enalapril 10 to 20 mg twice a day, lisinopril 20 to 30 mg once a day, and ramipril 5 mg twice a day; there are many others. 3/9 Serum electrolytes and renal function should be measured before an ACE inhibitor is initiated, at 1 month, and after each significant increase in dose or change in
