Medications for Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: patients, dose, heart, ace, day, failure, heart failure, inhibitors, used, renal, orally, diuretics, inhibitor, ace inhibitors, function


many others. 3/9 Serum electrolytes and renal function should be measured before an ACE inhibitor is initiated, at 1 month, and after each significant increase in dose or change in clinical condition. If dehydration or poor renal function due to acute illness develops, the ACE inhibitor dose may need to be reduced or temporarily discontinued. Contraindications include plasma creatinine > 2.8 mg/dL [> 250 micromol/L], bilateral renal artery stenosis, renal artery stenosis in a solitary kidney, or previous angioedema due to ACE inhibitors. The hypotensive effect (more marked in patients with hyponatremia or volume depletion), if troublesome, can often be minimized by separating administration of other blood pressure–lowering medications, reducing the dose of concomitant diuretics, using a longer acting ACE inhibitor (eg, perindopril), or giving the dose at bedtime. ACE inhibitors often cause mild to moderate reversible serum creatinine elevation due to vasodilation of the efferent glomerular arteriole. An initial 20 to 30% increase in creatinine is not a reason to stop the medication but does require closer monitoring, slower increases in dose, reduction in diuretic dose, or avoidance of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Because aldosterone’s effect is reduced, potassium retention (hyperkalemia) may result, especially in patients receiving potassium supplements. Cough occurs in many patients, probably because bradykinin accumulates, but other causes of cough should also be considered. If cough limits use, an ARB is a reasonable alternative. Occasionally, rash or dysgeusia occurs. Angioedema is rare but can be life threatening and is a contraindication to ACE inhibitors. Alternatively, ARBs can be used, although rarely cross-reactivity is reported. Both are contraindicated in pregnancy. Angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) ARBs target the angiotensin II receptor rather than the angiotensin converting enzymes. They are less likely to cause cough and angioedema than ACE inhibitors, and may be used when these adverse effects prohibit ACE inhibitor use (Heidenreich). In patients with HFrEF, ACE inhibitors and ARBs are likely equally effective. In patients with HFpEF, ARBs (as with ACE inhibitors) are not typically initiated unless they are already being used for other indications such as hypertension, diabetic kidney disease, or microalbuminuria. Usual oral target doses are valsartan 160 mg twice a day, candesartan 32 mg once a day, and losartan 50 to 100 mg once a day. Introduction, upward dose adjustment, and monitoring of ARBs and ACE inhibitors are similar. Like ACE inhibitors, ARBs can cause reversible renal dysfunction, and the dose may need
