Medications for Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: patients, dose, heart, ace, day, failure, heart failure, inhibitors, used, renal, orally, diuretics, inhibitor, ace inhibitors, function


once a day. Introduction, upward dose adjustment, and monitoring of ARBs and ACE inhibitors are similar. Like ACE inhibitors, ARBs can cause reversible renal dysfunction, and the dose may need to be reduced or stopped temporarily during an acute dehydrating illness. Adding an ARB to a regimen of an ACE inhibitor, beta-blocker, and mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist is unlikely to be helpful and should be avoided given the risk of hyperkalemia. If a patient who is taking an ACE inhibitor or ARB still has symptoms, an mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist should be started, and/or an angiotensin receptor/neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI) should be used. ARBs are contraindicated in pregnancy. Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (aldosterone antagonists) Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists block aldosterone receptors in the distal convoluted tubule and collecting ducts of the kidney. They are considered potassium-sparing diuretics due to their relatively weak diuretic effect and the fact that, unlike most other diuretics, they do not waste serum potassium. 4/9 For patients with heart failure, these agents offer blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system that is complementary to the mechanism of ACE inhibitors and ARBs. A mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (MRA, also termed aldosterone antagonists) is recommended for patients with HRrEF, particularly those with symptoms (New York Heart Association Class II to IV) (1, 2). In patients with HRpEF, MRAs appear to have the most benefit as primary heart failure therapy in patients at the lower end of the ejection fraction spectrum and are also routinely used in patients with preexisting hypertension or coronary artery disease. Typical medications include spironolactone 25 to 50 mg orally once a day and eplerenone (which does not cause gynecomastia in males as spironolactone can). Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists can reduce mortality, including from sudden death, in patients with left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) < 30% and chronic heart failure, or acute heart failure complicating acute myocardial infarction. Potassium supplements should be stopped. Serum potassium and creatinine should be checked every 1 to 2 weeks for the first 4 to 6 weeks and after dose changes. Dose is lowered if potassium is between 5.0 and 5.5 mEq/L ( 5.5 mmol/L) and stopped if potassium is > 5.5 mEq/L (5.5 mmol/L), if creatinine increases above 2.5 mg/dL (220 micromol/L), or if ECG changes of hyperkalemia are present. Sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) SGLT2i were originally used in treatment of diabetes to block glucose reabsorption, thus causing glycosuria and lowering plasma glucose; they may also have effects
