Medications for Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: patients, dose, heart, ace, day, failure, heart failure, inhibitors, used, renal, orally, diuretics, inhibitor, ace inhibitors, function


are present. Sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) SGLT2i were originally used in treatment of diabetes to block glucose reabsorption, thus causing glycosuria and lowering plasma glucose; they may also have effects on the myocardium and vasculature. These medications had previously been shown to prevent the onset of heart failure in patients with type 2 diabetes. The SGLT2i dapagliflozin and empagliflozin were subsequently shown to reduce cardiovascular mortality and hospitalization in patients with HRrEF who are symptomatic (New York Heart Association Class II to IV). Thus, SGLT2i therapy is recommended for all HRrEF patients with symptoms. SGLT2i therapy also appears beneficial in patients with HRpEF. Dapagliflozin and empagliflozin may be given 10 mg orally once a day. With treatment, there is a mild (10 to 15%) reduction in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) which does not progress, glucosuria, and a small reduction in body weight. Risks include genital fungal infection, and in patients with diabetes, a very small risk of hypoglycemia and diabetic ketoacidosis. These medications are generally 2 not indicated in patients with type I diabetes, low blood pressure, or low eGFR (< 30 mL/min/1.73 m ). Digoxin Digoxin inhibits the sodium-potassium pump (Na+, K+-ATPase), causing weak positive inotropy, reduces sympathetic activity, blocks the atrioventricular node (slowing the ventricular rate in atrial fibrillation or prolonging the PR interval in sinus rhythm), reduces vasoconstriction, and improves renal blood flow. Digoxin has no proven survival benefit but, when used in addition to standard guideline-directed medical therapy, may help control symptoms and reduce the likelihood of hospitalization in patients with HFrEF (1, 2). Digoxin may also be used for rate control in patients with atrial fibrillation and both HFrEF and HFpEF. 5/9 In patients with normal renal function, digoxin, 0.125 to 0.25 mg orally once a day depending on age, sex, and body size, achieves full digitalization in about 1 week (5 half-lives). More rapid digitalization can be achieved but, unlike in the treatment of atrial fibrillation, there is typically little reason to rapidly digitalize (ie, digoxin load) patients with heart failure. Thus, simply starting digoxin at 0.125 mg orally once a day (in patients with normal renal function) or digoxin 0.125 mg orally every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday (in patients with abnormal renal function) is sufficient in patients with heart failure. Digoxin toxicity is a concern given its narrow therapeutic window, especially in patients with renal dysfunction and perhaps in women. These patients
