Medications for Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: patients, dose, heart, ace, day, failure, heart failure, inhibitors, used, renal, orally, diuretics, inhibitor, ace inhibitors, function


function) is sufficient in patients with heart failure. Digoxin toxicity is a concern given its narrow therapeutic window, especially in patients with renal dysfunction and perhaps in women. These patients may need a lower oral dose, as may older patients, patients with a low lean body mass, and patients also taking amiodarone. The most important toxic effects are life-threatening arrhythmias (eg, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, complete atrioventricular block). Bidirectional ventricular tachycardia, nonparoxysmal junctional tachycardia in the presence of atrial fibrillation, and hyperkalemia are serious signs of digitalis toxicity. Nausea, vomiting, anorexia, diarrhea, confusion, amblyopia, and, rarely, xerophthalmia may also occur. If hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia (often due to diuretic use) is present, lower doses and serum levels can still cause toxicity; thus, electrolyte levels should be monitored in patients taking diuretics and digoxin. Diuretics While spironolactone is recommended for all patients with HRrEF and used for many with HRpEF, additional diuretics are given to patients with heart failure (regardless of underlying ejection fraction) who have current or previous volume overload; dose is adjusted to the lowest dose that stabilizes weight and relieves symptoms (1, 2). Chronic diuretics may be scheduled or used as needed by patients based on peripheral edema or changes in weight. Diuretics are a primary therapy in symptomatic HRpEF. They are used with caution in right heart failure, particularly in cor pulmonale, due to sensitivity to small changes in preload. Loop diuretics should be used initially for control of volume overload, but their dose should be reduced when possible in favor of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists. Thiazide diuretics are not normally used alone unless being given as treatment of hypertension; however, a thiazide diuretic may be added to a loop diuretic for additional diuresis and to reduce the loop diuretic dose. Hydrochlorothiazide, metolazone, and chlorthalidone can be used in this manner. Commonly used loop diuretics include furosemide, bumetanide, and torsemide. The starting dose of these medications depends on whether the patient has previously received loop diuretics. Common starting doses are: Furosemide 20 to 40 mg orally once a day or twice a day Bumetanide 0.5 to 1.0 mg orally once a day Torsemide 10 to 20 mg orally once a day If needed, loop diuretics can be titrated up to doses of furosemide 120 mg orally twice a day, bumetanide 2 mg orally twice a day, and torsemide 40 mg orally twice a day based on response and renal
