Medications for Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: patients, dose, heart, ace, day, failure, heart failure, inhibitors, used, renal, orally, diuretics, inhibitor, ace inhibitors, function


to doses of furosemide 120 mg orally twice a day, bumetanide 2 mg orally twice a day, and torsemide 40 mg orally twice a day based on response and renal function. Bumetanide and torsemide have better bioavailability than furosemide. If patients are 6/9 switched between different loop diuretics, they should be placed on equivalent doses. Furosemide 40 mg is equivalent to bumetanide 1 mg, and both are equivalent to torsemide 20 mg. In refractory cases, IV loop diuretics or metolazone 2.5 to 10 mg orally can be used for an additive effect. IV infusion of furosemide (5 to 10 mg/hour) or other loop diuretics may be helpful in selected patients with severe pulmonary edema. A bolus dose of loop diuretic should be given before starting an IV infusion and before each increase in infusion rate. Loop diuretics (particularly when used in combination with thiazide diuretics) may cause hypovolemia with hypotension, hyponatremia, hypomagnesemia, and severe hypokalemia. The dose of diuretic required acutely can usually be gradually reduced; the target is the lowest dose that maintains stable weight and controls symptoms. When heart failure improves, the diuretic may be stopped if other medications improve heart function and relieve symptoms of heart failure. Using diuretic doses that are larger than required lowers cardiac output, impairs renal function, causes hypokalemia, and increases mortality. Serum electrolytes and renal function are monitored, initially daily (when diuretics are given IV) and subsequently as needed, particularly after a dose increase. Vasopressin (antidiuretic hormone) receptor antagonists are not frequently used though they may be helpful in cases of severe refractory hyponatremia in patients with heart failure. Inotropes Various positive inotropic medications have been evaluated in heart failure but, except for digoxin, they increase mortality risk. These medications can be grouped by mode of action as: Adrenergic (norepinephrine, epinephrine, dobutamine, dopamine) Nonadrenergic (enoximoneand milrinone [phosphodiesterase type 3 inhibitors], levosimendan [calcium sensitizer]) Inotropic support is important for treatment of acute heart failure with cardiogenic shock. The choice of inotrope depends on availability, local practice, and afterload. For example, in a patient with severely reduced LV ejection fraction, peripheral vasoconstriction, and high or normal blood pressure, initial inotropic support may be combined with an IV vasodilator such as nitroprusside, and then transitioned to milrinone (which has mild vasodilatory effects). On the other hand, a patient with reduced ejection fraction and hypotension with peripheral vasodilation may require an inotrope with vasopressor effects (norepinephrine,
