Medications for Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: patients, dose, heart, ace, day, failure, heart failure, inhibitors, used, renal, orally, diuretics, inhibitor, ace inhibitors, function


to milrinone (which has mild vasodilatory effects). On the other hand, a patient with reduced ejection fraction and hypotension with peripheral vasodilation may require an inotrope with vasopressor effects (norepinephrine, high dose epinephrine), or a combination of an inotrope and a pure vasoconstricting agent. Synergy can be obtained by using both an adrenergic and nonadrenergic inotrope. In patients with advanced (Stage D) HRpEF refractory to standard therapies, long-term continuous inotropic infusions may be used as a bridge to transplantation or as palliative therapy (2). Sinus node inhibitors Ivabradine is an I channel (inward "funny" channel in the sinus node) blocker that acts at the sinus node f to slow the heart rate. Since these channels are present primarily in cardiac pacemaker cells, these medications are not useful for treatment in patients who are not in sinus rhythm. Ivabradine is recommended for use in patients with HFrEF who have symptomatic heart failure (New York Heart 7/9 Association Class II or III), normal sinus rhythm, and heart rate > 70 beats/minute despite guideline- directed medical therapy (at target beta-blocker dose or cannot tolerate a further increase in beta- blocker dose) (1, 2). Initial dose of ivabradine is 2.5 to 5 mg orally twice a day, titrated at 2-week intervals to a heart rate of 50 to 60 beats/minute; maximum dose is 7.5 mg twice a day. Soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator Vericiguat is an oral soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator that enhances the cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP) pathway and sensitizes soluble guanylate cyclase to endogenous nitric oxide, resulting in pulmonary vasodilation. Vericiguat is an option to improve outcomes for patients with HFrEF with worsening heart failure symptoms despite maximal guideline-directed medical therapy, with the potential to reduce mortality or hospitalization. Vasodilators Hydralazine and nitrates (such as isosorbide dinitrate) are direct vasodilators, which can improve hemodynamics, reduce valvular regurgitation, and increase exercise capacity without causing significant renal impairment. The combination of hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate may be considered in patients with HRrEF who are intolerant of ACE inhibitors or ARBs (usually because of significant renal dysfunction) (1, 2). Additionally, in patients of African ancestry, this combination, when added to standard therapy, may reduce mortality and hospitalization, and improve quality of life. When used instead of ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy, hydralazine is started at 25 mg orally 4 times a day and increased every 3 to 5 days to a target total dose of 300
