The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


networks of clock genes in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), the major central rhythm-generating system or "clock" in mammals (the pineal itself is a self sustaining "clock" in some if not all lower vertebrates) (6). The main feedback loop involving transcription of a number of genes (Per1, Per2, Per3, Cry1, Cry2, and Reverbα) is activated by heteromeric complexes of CLOCK and BMAL1. This transcription continues into the night until nuclear levels of PER and CRY proteins become sufficiently high to repress CLOCK/BMAL1 activation. Declining levels of PER/CRY in the early morning then allows transcription of the genes again and the cycle continues. Within this cyclical process, the stability of PER and CRY proteins is tightly controlled by casein kinases (CK1d/e) and the F-box protein FBXL3 respectively. Most, if not all peripheral tissues also express this sequence and the SCN is considered to synchronise other clocks such that they are optimally phased (7,8,9 ) thus establishing links between the central circadian system and virtually all aspects of physiology. The SCN rhythm is synchronized to 24 hours primarily by the light-dark cycle acting via the retina and the retinohypothalamic projection to the SCN. An additional central clock, indepenedent of the SCN, has recently been discovered. It is entrained by food availability and timing. (8). Figure 1 Melatonin synthesis in the pineal gland. The cDNAs encoding both AA-NAT and the O-methylating enzyme HIOMT have both been cloned (10). There are substantial species differences in regulation of AA-NAT. It is likely that in humans and ovines the enzyme is regulated primarily at a post transcriptional level, whereas in rodents the key event appears to be cyclic AMP-dependent phosporylation of a transcription factor that binds to the AA-NAT promoter. Rapid decline in activity with light treatment at night appears to depend on proteasomal proteolysis (10,11). According to distribution studies of AA-NAT mRNA this enzyme is expressed mainly in the pineal, retina and, to a much lesser extent, some other brain areas, the pituitary and the testis, but apart from the pineal these structures contribute little to circulating concentrations in mammals. There is also evidence that melatonin can be synthesised in numerous other sites where it may have local effects (12,13). In the gastro-intestinal tract it may contribute to gut function (13). Within the rodent retina a self sustaining 'clock' maintains rhythmic production of melatonin in vitro as it does in many lower vertebrates (14). Whether or
