The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


contribute to gut function (13). Within the rodent retina a self sustaining 'clock' maintains rhythmic production of melatonin in vitro as it does in many lower vertebrates (14). Whether or not this is true of humans remains to be seen. In humans and rodents melatonin is metabolized to 6-sulphatoxymelatonin (aMT6s), primarily within the liver, by 6-hydroxylation, followed by sulfate conjugation. A number of minor metabolites are also formed, including the glucuronide conjugate, which predominates in mice.(15). Exogenous oral or intravenous melatonin has a short metabolic half-life (20 to 60 minutes, depending on author and species), with a large hepatic first-pass effect and a biphasic elimination pattern. In ruminants longer half-lives are seen after oral administration (16,17). Most effects of pinealectomy can be reversed by melatonin, administered appropriately in physiological concentrations. Hence, it is difficult to consider the numerous other compounds found and/or synthesised within the pineal as major pineal hormones. Control of Melatonin Synthesis: A Darkness Hormone Sympathetic denervation of the pineal in mammals abolishes the rhythmic synthesis of melatonin and the light-dark control of its production. Norepinephrine is clearly the major transmitter, acting via beta-1-adrenoceptors with potentiation by alpha-1 stimulation, but the role of neural serotonin is probably not negligible. There is a day-night variation in pineal norepinephrine, with highest values at night, approximately 180 degrees out of phase with the pineal serotonin rhythm. cAMP acts as a second messenger and stimulates AA-NAT activity. Beta-adrenergic receptor binding sites in the rat pineal vary over a 24-hour period, the lowest number being found toward the end of the dark phase, increasing shortly after lights on (16,18). There is evidence for modulation of melatonin synthesis in vitro by other factors, notably neuropeptides (18), but their physiological importance remains obscure. Table 1 summarises factors influencing melatonin secretion and production. Table 1 Some factors influencing human melatonin secretion. A comprehensive revue addresses mostly animal in vivo and in vitro effects, for references see 18,19. A: antagonist, U: uptake, I: inhibitor, MAO: monoamine oxidase, OC: oral contraceptives, 5HT: 5-hydroxytryptamine, : increase, : decrease. Reproduced by permission from (19) View in own window Factor Effect(s) on melatonin Comment Light Suppression >30 lux white460-480 nm most effective Light Phase-shift/ Synchronisation Short wavelengths most effective Sleep timing Phase-shift Partly secondary to light exposure Posture standing (night) Exercise phase shifts Hard exercise ß-adrenoceptor-A synthesis Anti-hypertensives 5HT UI fluvoxamine Metabolic effect NE UI change in timing Antidepressants MAOA I
