The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


Phase-shift Partly secondary to light exposure Posture standing (night) Exercise phase shifts Hard exercise ß-adrenoceptor-A synthesis Anti-hypertensives 5HT UI fluvoxamine Metabolic effect NE UI change in timing Antidepressants MAOA I may change phase Antidepressants α-adrenoceptor-A alpha-1, alpha-2 Benzodiazepines Variable diazepam, alprazolam GABA mechanisms Testosterone Treatment OC Oestradiol ? Not clear Menstrual cycle Inconsistent amenorrhea Smoking Possible changes ? Alcohol Dose dependent Caffeine Delays clearance (exogenous) Aspirin, Ibuprofen Chlorpromazine Metabolic effect Benserazide Possible phase change, Parkinson patients Aromatic amino-acid decarboxylase-I Melatonin is synthesized and secreted during the dark phase of the day in virtually all species (16). In most vertebrates the rhythm is endogenous, that is, internally generated. It persists in the absence of time cues, in general assuming a period deviating slightly from 24 hours, and is thus a true circadian rhythm (20,21). Lesions of the SCN lead to a loss of the vast majority of circadian rhythms including melatonin (22). Circadian rhythms are entrained (synchronized) to the 24-hour day primarily by light-dark cycles. Factors (zeitgebers) other than light-dark cycles which are involved in entrainment include behavioral imposition such as forced activity and rest, social and nutritional (rhythmic feeding) cues, temperature variations, knowledge of clock time, certain drugs, possibly electromagnetic fields and melatonin itself (23). There is some recent evidence that in strictly controlled conditions women have slightly higher levels of plasma melatonin than men, at night. (24). Daylength Dependence of Melatonin Secretion Melatonin secretion is related to the length of the night: The longer the night, the longer the duration of secretion in most species (16). Ocular (not extra-ocular) light serves to entrain/synchronise the rhythm to 24h and to suppress secretion at the beginning and/or the end of the dark phase (Fig 2). The amount of light required to suppress melatonin secretion during the night varies from species to species, with time of night, and with previous light exposure (25-27). In humans, 2500 lux full spectrum light (domestic light is around 100 to 500 lux) is required to completely suppress melatonin at night (27). However much lower intensities will partially suppress and shift the rhythm in humans (28,29). Image forming vision (rods and cones) is not required for suppression of melatonin, or indeed for synchronising /phase shifting the circadian clock. A novel non-image forming photoreceptor system is implicated, with evidence for a pivotal role of a new opsin: melanopsin (30). In humans maximum suppression for equal numbers of photons
