The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


clock. A novel non-image forming photoreceptor system is implicated, with evidence for a pivotal role of a new opsin: melanopsin (30). In humans maximum suppression for equal numbers of photons is given by blue light (~ 480 nm) with an action spectrum that is distinct from that of scotopic and photopic vision (31-33). Figure 2 Diagrammatic representation of the control of production and the functions of melatonin, with regard to seasonal and circadian timing mechanisms. RHT- retino-hypothalamic tract, NA " norepinephrine (noradrenalin), SCN - suprachiasmatic nucleus, PVN - paraventricular nucleus, SCG - superior cervical ganglion. The melatonin rhythm is generated by a closed loop negative feedback of clock gene expression in the SCN, Clock and Bmal, positive stimulatory elements, Per, Cry, negative elements, CCG, clock controlled genes. The SCN via neural pathways drives the pineal melatonin rhythm. Per and NAT mRNA oscillate in the pineal although post transcription control is evident in some species. Melatonin influences SCN activity via one or more receptors. Melatonin conveys photoperiodic information influencing the pattern of per expression in the pars tuberalis for the control of seasonal prolactin variations. Melatonin target sites in the hypothalamus influencing seasonal variations in reproductive hormones have yet to be fully defined, although the premammillary hypothalamus is implicated (34). Based on an original diagram by Dr Elisabeth Maywood, MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Neurobiology Division, Hills Road Cambridge, CB2 2QH, UK. The initial treatment for winter depression (SAD) with bright light was based on the assumption that melatonin duration was a seasonal signal in humans (35). In order to demonstrate daylength dependence of melatonin secretion in humans it has been necessary to maintain subjects in total darkness for 14h per day for 2 months, when the secretion profile is clearly longer than after 10h total darkness for two months, with accompanying changes in body temperature and sleep (36). This photoperiodic response has sometimes been observed in polar regions and even in subjects living according to the natural light dark cycle in temperate regions. The most consistent seasonal observation in humans is that melatonin profiles show a phase change from winter to summer, with earlier secretion in summer than in winter e.g. (37). Synchronisation of the Melatonin Rhythm to the 24h Day A single daily light pulse of suitable intensity and duration in otherwise constant darkness is sufficient to phase shift and to synchronize the melatonin rhythm to 24 hours in
