The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


Day A single daily light pulse of suitable intensity and duration in otherwise constant darkness is sufficient to phase shift and to synchronize the melatonin rhythm to 24 hours in animals (38,39). Phase shifting and entrainment (synchronisation with an appropriate phase) have been demonstrated in humans with suitable intensity, spectral composition and duration of light treatment (40-42). However, the relative contribution of light in a normal environment with numerous other time cues remains to be fully determined. Studies in Antarctica suggest that a structured social routine in a dim light environment suffices to synchronize melatonin to 24 hours in most people (16). Many blind people with no conscious or unconscious light perception living in a normal social environment show 'free running' or abnormally synchronised melatonin and other circadian rhythms (39,43,44). Moreover the incidence of circadian desynchrony, with its attendant sleep and other problems, is directly related to the degree of light perception of the individual. The less light the more likely is desynchrony to occur. Some blind subjects retain an intact retino-hypothalamic tract and a melatonin suppression response even in the absence of conscious light perception.(45) . The contribution of the so-called "non-photic" time cues to entrainment has been evaluataed in a small number of blind people (39). PHYSIOLOGICAL FUNCTIONS OF MELATONIN IN MAMMALS Melatonin Secretion as a Function of Daylength: a Seasonal Time Cue When seasonal functions such as reproduction, pelage (coat growth and color), appetite, bodyweight are primarily timed by daylength, species are referred to as photoperiodic . Photoperiod is often critical for the timing of pubertal development (46,47). It is now clear that in photoperiodic mammals and marsupials, an intact innervated pineal gland is essential for the perception of photoperiod change (47-50). It is possible to administer melatonin by daily infusion or feeding so as to generate at will circulating profiles, with a duration characteristic of particular photoperiods, in the intact or pinealectomized animal (48,49). In this way it has become clear that a particular melatonin duration is the necessary and sufficient condition for the induction of a given seasonal response and is equipotent with a particular photoperiod. Long-duration melatonin is equivalent to short days and short-duration melatonin is equivalent to long days (Fig. 2, see above). The interpretation of the signal, as with daylength, depends on the physiology (for example, long- or short-day breeder) of the species in question. In sheep, melatonin can time the whole
