The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


The interpretation of the signal, as with daylength, depends on the physiology (for example, long- or short-day breeder) of the species in question. In sheep, melatonin can time the whole seasonal cycle, at least of reproduction, acting as a seasonal zeitgeber for a presumed endogenous circannual rhythm (50). The circannual rhythm of prolactin secretion (synchronised by photoperiod) is dependent on the circadian melatonin signal and is thought to derive from a pituitary-based timing mechanism whereby melatonin regulated pars tuberalis timer cells serve to coordinate adjacent prolactin-secreting cells which together function as an intrapituitary "pacemaker-slave" timer system. (51).. Reproduction in domestic ruminants and the winter coat of animals such as mink, arctic foxes, and cashmere goats has commercial significance and can be manipulated by photoperiod and melatonin administration. Implanted melatonin induces short-day effects,and a number of commercial preparations of melatonin have been developed to this end. Photoperiod via melatonin secretion determines the timing of puberty in some species, provided that a sufficient degree of physical maturity has been reached (46). Interestingly, photoperiod perception by the fetus is present before birth in rodents and ungulates and ensures a rate of development appropriate to environmental conditions (52-54). Melatonin injections to the mother can dictate the timing of postnatal reproductive development. In rats injections of melatonin during the late light phase, during a small window in the late dark phase or even using continuous release implants, specifically during the period of pubertal development, delay reproductive maturity in both males and females (55). Full sexual maturity is eventually achieved; thus the system is not permanently compromised. Moreover in vitro melatonin inhibits gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)-induced luteinizing hormone (LH) release by cultured rat pituitary glands from prepubertal animals (56). These observations constitute the main evidence for a possible causal role of melatonin in the pubertal development of humans. Role of the Pineal Gland and Melatonin in Circadian Rhythms Melatonin is produced rhythmically by both the pineal and the retina in many lower vertebrates and probably serves as the common humoral signal for circadian organization (23). In mammals its role appears to be modulatory with regard to circadian organisation. Pinealectomy of rodents in constant light leads to disruption of the circadian system (57). In rats pinealectomy increases the rate of re-entrainment to forced phase shifts of the light-dark cycle (58). Interestingly, in humans, pharmacological suppression of melatonin by atenolol enhances the magnitude of light-induced phase shifts (59) and
