The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


rate of re-entrainment to forced phase shifts of the light-dark cycle (58). Interestingly, in humans, pharmacological suppression of melatonin by atenolol enhances the magnitude of light-induced phase shifts (59) and melatonin and light can act in concert to effect a phase shift (60). Thus, a possible conclusion might be that the presence of melatonin determines the rate of adaptation to phase shift. A specific melatonin antagonist which can be administered to humans is awaited to resolve these questions. Melatonin is also implicated in circadian thermoregulation (see (61) for a review). Many such effects may involve the thyroid gland. EFFECTS OF TIMED ADMINISTRATION OF MELATONIN IN MAMMALS In vivo effects Daily melatonin administration to rats and some hamster strains, by injection or by infusion, will synchronise free-running activity and temperature rhythms in constant darkness. It is also reported to partially or completely synchronize disrupted activity rhythms in constant light (23). Circadian phase can be set in fetal hamsters by maternal injections of melatonin at 24-hour intervals at specific circadian times (54). Timed administration to rats hastens adaptation of activity and melatonin production to forced phase shift, and can change the direction of re-entrainment (58,62). A phase response curve (PRC) to single injections of melatonin can be demonstrated with small phase advances of at most one hour during the late subjective day (58). As the pineal is involved in circadian timing, the presumption must be that it is concerned with the timing of the LH surge and indeed with general estrous timing. There is evidence that in rats, timed melatonin administration can mimic the effects of extending the light-dark cycle on the timing of the LH surge. Observations of the peripheral melatonin rhythm itself show a decreased amplitude during proestrus in rodents but with conflicting reports in other species (see (16,63) for reviews). In the rat, gestation length depends on the ambient light-dark cycle. Small advances or delays of parturition can be induced by daylengths shorter or longer than 24 hours, and the effect can partially be mimicked by timed melatonin administration (64). A fairly consistent observation in pineal research is the decline in amplitude of the melatonin rhythm in old age (see (16) for references). Pinealectomy accelerates the aging process, and there has been some considerable publicity concerning claims for an anti-aging effect of melatonin (65,66). The most widely published hypothesis is that melatonin acts as a free radical scavenger and
