The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


there has been some considerable publicity concerning claims for an anti-aging effect of melatonin (65,66). The most widely published hypothesis is that melatonin acts as a free radical scavenger and anti-oxidant (67,68). Being an easily oxidised molecule melatonin does indeed have some anti-oxidant activity. However the quantities of exogenous melatonin required to generate clinically relevant anti-oxidant activity in vivo remain to be specified. In Vitro Phase Shifts Melatonin inhibits 2-deoxyglucose uptake into the SCN in late subjective day, with no effect at other times, and inhibits electrical activity also during late subjective day (23). In this way melatonin may counter a 'wake' signal from the SCN. The most convincing evidence for a direct influence on the circadian system is the phase-advancing effect of melatonin on the circadian rhythm of electrical activity in cultured SCN (69). The effect was large, acute, and time-dependent, with shifts of up to several hours being observed. Retinal Rhythms Melatonin appears to function as a paracrine signal within the retina. It enhances retinal function in low intensity light by inducing photomechanical changes and regulating the turnover rates of the photoreceptive apparatuses of rods, cones and the surrounding pigment epithelium (70). The pineal, the retina, and the SCN together form the basic structures perceiving and transducing non-visual effects of light. Melatonin provides a closed loop to this system. It is reasonable to conclude that in adult mammals melatonin serves to modulate circadian phase and strengthen coupling. Since optimal circadian phase is important to health, this is clearly a very significant function. In fetal and neonatal mammals it may help to program the circadian system and to determine the timing of developmental stages, especially puberty. Miscellaneous The numerous reports of other effects of melatonin in animals and in vitro are beyond the scope of this article. Many of these concern "protective" effects attributed to anti-oxidant activity (71)(review). Evidence for anti-tumour activity of melatonin is now strong and possible mechanisms have been proposed (72-75). Circadian control of metabolism (9,76,77) means that there is much scope for effects of melatonin in this area. Anti-apoptopic activity of melatonin has been investigated and attributed to mitochondrial mechanisms (75) HUMAN PINEAL PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY Human Melatonin Production Pinealectomy in humans removes virtually all plasma melatonin (78). Other consequences of the operation consist of diffuse neurological problems that do not add up to a consistent functional effect as yet and may be more related
