The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


plasma melatonin (78). Other consequences of the operation consist of diffuse neurological problems that do not add up to a consistent functional effect as yet and may be more related to non-specific effects of operation. Some preliminary evidence suggests that pinealectomised humans are less "seasonal" than healthy subjects, underlining the predominantly photoperiodic role of melatonin if confirmed (79). There is good evidence that the neural and biochemical pathways known to control pineal function in rats are similar in humans. Pathological or traumatic denervation of the pineal abolishes the plasma melatonin rhythm. Beta-adrenergic antagonists suppress melatonin production, and increased availability of norepinephrine and serotonin are stimulatory (for references see reviews (16,26)). The melatonin content of pineals obtained post-mortem is related to the time of death with, as expected, higher values at night (80). In a "normal" environment, melatonin is secreted during the night in healthy humans as in all other species. The average maximum levels attained in plasma in adults are of the order of 60 to 70 pg/ml when measured with high-specificity assays. The concentrations in saliva are approximately one third of those in plasma. Minimum concentrations in both fluids are usually below 5 pg/ml. The peak concentrations of melatonin in plasma normally occur between 0200 and 0400 hours. The onset of secretion is usually around 2100 to 2200 hours and the offset at 0700 to 0900 hours in adults in temperate zones. The appearance and peak levels of 6-sulfatoxymelatonin (aMT6s) in plasma are delayed by 1 to 2 hours, and the morning decline by 3 to 4 hours. The mean concentrations of plasma and saliva melatonin together with urinary 6-sulfatoxymelatonin (aMT6s) are shown in Fig. 3a. There are strong correlations between the timing and amplitude of the plasma melatonin and urinary aMT6s rhythms, such that aMT6s is a useful measure of circadian phase in field situations (16, 26, Fig.3b). In urine 50 to 80 per cent of aMT6s appears in the overnight sample (2400 to 0800 hours), and it is low but rarely undetectable in the afternoon and early evening. Possibly the most striking characteristic of the normal human melatonin rhythm is its reproducibility from day to day and from week to week in normal individuals, rather like an hormonal fingerprint. There is however a large variability in amplitude of the rhythm between subjects. A small number of apparently normal individuals have no detectable melatonin in plasma at all
