The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


hormonal fingerprint. There is however a large variability in amplitude of the rhythm between subjects. A small number of apparently normal individuals have no detectable melatonin in plasma at all times of day (16,26) . Figure 3a Average concentrations of melatonin in plasma (black, average N=133), saliva (blue, average N=28) and 6-sulphatoxymelatonin (aMT6s) in urine (red, average N=88), all measurements by radioimmunoassay. Diagrammatic representation of mean normal values (healthy men and women over 18 years old) from the author's laboratory. Figure 3b Plasma melatonin and urin ary aMT6s in hourly samples, mean " SEM, N=14, to show the delay in the rhythm of aMT6s compared to melatonin. If urine is sampled 3-4 hourly with an over-sleep collection as shown, a close correlation with plasma melatonin amplitude and phase is found. Drawn from data in reference 105. As stated previously, even domestic intensity light can suppress human melatonin production at night. Exposure to light during 'biological night' (LAN) has been perceived as deleterious to health (for example the increased risk of cancer in most epidemiology studies on night shift work) (73,74,81,82). This hypothesis is based on the beneficial effects of melatonin in some situations (see later). For example, the progression or spontaneous appearance of cancer in animals is enhanced by continuous light (82) and in human breast cancer xenografts exogenous melatonin is reported to reverse this effect (83). Whether or not the suppression of endogenous melatonin has undesirable consequences in the long term remains to be evaluated. A more substantive hypothesis considers that LAN disrupts the expression of clock genes with probable deleterious effects on numerous systems. Such disruption is associated with vulnerability to cancer in animals (73,74,84). Melatonin and Core Body Temperature The melatonin peak is closely associated with the nadir in core body temperature, together with maximum tiredness/fatigue, lowest alertness and performance (Fig. 4) (85). Causal links are suggested by a number of observations. For example, bright light at night suppresses melatonin, simultaneously increasing body temperature, alertness and performance, and decreasing sleepiness (86). Exogenous melatonin during the daytime acutely increases sleepiness and decreases core body temperature (87). This latter observation is dependent on posture: subjects must be seated or recumbent (88). The ovulatory rise in temperature during the menstrual cycle is associated with a reported decline in amplitude of melatonin, but the decline in melatonin is not a consistent observation. Figure 4 Relationship of plasma melatonin to other major
