The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


cycle is associated with a reported decline in amplitude of melatonin, but the decline in melatonin is not a consistent observation. Figure 4 Relationship of plasma melatonin to other major circadian rhythms. Note the close correspondence between the core temperature nadir and the melatonin peak. Sleep propensity closely follows the melatonin rhythm. Reproduced from Rajaratnam SMW and Arendt J. Lancet 358:999-1005, 2001 by permission. Melatonin and Sleep Endogenous melatonin production is clearly closely related to the onset and offset of sleep. However sleep deprivation does not abolish the melatonin rhythm and in very dim light does not affect secretion (85). In controlled experimental conditions it is clear that the evening rise of melatonin corresponds closely to the opening of the 'sleep gate', following a period of wake maintenance which has been called the 'forbidden zone for sleep' (89). Few associations have emerged between melatonin production and sleep stages, with the exception of a relationship between the timing of sleep spindles and certain other EEG characteristics, and the circadian phase of melatonin (90). Possibly the best correlative evidence for a role of melatonin in human sleep is the appearance of daytime naps, in free-running blind subjects when the peak of melatonin (and of course the temperature nadir) occurs during the daytime (91). Another pertinent observation is the poor sleep of patients with Smith-Magenis syndrome, most of whom have an inverted melatonin rhythm with high values during the daytime (92). The relationships of stress, exercise, and some other non-pharmacological interventions in modification of melatonin production are somewhat unclear and do not appear to play a major physiological role in humans. Melatonin during Development, Puberty, Menstrual cycle and Aging Shortly after birth very little melatonin or aMT6s is detectable in body fluids. A robust melatonin rhythm appears around 6 to 8 weeks of life (93). The plasma concentration of melatonin increases rapidly thereafter and reaches a lifetime peak on average at 3 to 5 years old (94). The increment is much greater at night. Subsequently a steady decrease is seen, reaching mean adult concentrations in mid to late teens with the major decline occurring before puberty. Values remain relatively unchanged until 35 to 40 years, and a final decline in amplitude then takes place until (on average) low levels are seen in old age (see (16) for references). Exceptionally healthy elderly may not show this age-related decline. Reports of differences in secretion in
