The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


place until (on average) low levels are seen in old age (see (16) for references). Exceptionally healthy elderly may not show this age-related decline. Reports of differences in secretion in adults with gender, height, or body weight are not consistent, although a recent carefully controlled study reports earlier phase and slightly higher levels in women (24). The measured plasma concentrations of melatonin in children are probably related to Tanner stage and possibly body weight (95). Although lower melatonin has been reported in precocious puberty and higher concentrations in delayed puberty and hypothalamic amenorrhea compared with age-matched controls (96,97), these remain correlative not causal associations, and there is no good evidence for a causal role of melatonin in primate pubertal development. Ovarian suppression with a GnRH analogue in precocious girls is not accompanied by changes in melatonin secretion (98). However, induction of sexual development with estrogen was associated with a very rapid decline of melatonin metabolite excretion in one case report (99). Likewise testosterone treatment of hypogonadal men led to a normalization of previously high circulating melatonin. (100). Circulating melatonin may or may not vary during the menstrual cycle, the existing data are inconsistent. There is (101) evidence for abnormal melatonin secretion in patients with pre menstrual tension . Low melatonin is reported to associate (inter alia) with cardiovascular disease and diabetic autonomic neuropathology (102-104). Studies of intensive care unit patients have shown very abnormal rhythms- but the data are confounded by the concomitant medication (105). Clearly, the importance of the pineal in humans depends on the importance of light in human physiology. It is reasonable to assume that the pineal conveys information concerning light-dark cycles for the organization of seasonal and circadian rhythms in humans as in animals. PATHOLOGY Post-Mortem observations: Pineal Hyper- and Hypoplasia A number of reports of variations in post-mortem pineal weight as a function of cause of death have been summarized by Tapp (106). Of the most interesting, hypoplasia of the pineal in association with retinal disease may be causally interrelated. Tapp has reported that pineals in patients dying of carcinoma of the breast or melanoma are heavier than those from patients with other cancers. Very large pineals (1 g) have been described in a rare genetic syndrome with insulin resistance (107). Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is associated with small pineals and decreased melatonin production (108). SIDS deaths usually occur at night and may be
