The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


genetic syndrome with insulin resistance (107). Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is associated with small pineals and decreased melatonin production (108). SIDS deaths usually occur at night and may be associated with abnormalities of sleep. If melatonin helps to coordinate circadian organization in the developing infant, its underproduction may contribute to the disorder. Pineal Tumors Tumors of the pineal region in children are frequently associated with abnormal pubertal development (109). In precocious puberty it was thought that the capacity of the pineal to inhibit sexual development was impaired. Much evidence now suggests that precocity is due to the production of human chorionic gonadotrophin (beta-hCG) by germ cell tumors of the pineal (110,111). Delayed puberty has also been associated with pineal tumors. Pineal tumors are heterogeneous and may arise from germ cells (teratomas, germinomas, choriocarcinomas, endodermal sinus tumors, mixed germ cell tumors), pineal parenchymal cells (pineoblastoma and pineocytoma), and the supporting stroma (gliomas) (112). All are rare (less than 1 per cent of intracranial space-occupying lesions) and tend to occur below 20 years of age with the exception of parenchymal cell tumors, which occur equally in adults and children. Germinomas respond well to radiation therapy, whereas primary surgery is more frequently the treatment of choice in other types. Tumor markers in CSF, alpha-fetoprotein and beta-hCG, together with CSF cytology and imaging (CT or MRI), aid in differential diagnosis. The most common symptoms are secondary to hydrocephalus (headache, vomiting, and drowsiness) together with the triad of visual problems, diabetes insipidus, and reproductive abnormalities (112). Germinomas and teratomas occur predominantly in males. Precocious puberty is more commonly associated with teratoma. As beta-hCG is identical to beta-LH, pubertal development can be directly attributed to ectopic beta-hCG production in many cases. Moreover, the predominance in boys may be explained on the basis that LH alone can stimulate testosterone production, whereas in girls both LH and FSH are required for ovarian follicular development and estrogen production. Reviewing a series of 37 patients, Drummond and Rosenfeld (113) concluded that there have been significant improvements in outcome over the last 30 years. A 5 year survival of 62% was quoted for germinomas, but only 14% for other malignant tumours. Classification of pineal parenchymal tumours is complicated by the presence of mixed pineocytoma-pineoblastoma types some with intermediate differentiation. A new classification has been proposed based on histological features which is closely related to patient survival (114). A new type
