The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


presence of mixed pineocytoma-pineoblastoma types some with intermediate differentiation. A new classification has been proposed based on histological features which is closely related to patient survival (114). A new type of pineal tumour was described in 2003 " the pineal papillary tumour. These tumors of the pineal region are similar to those described for ependymal cells of the subcommissural organ, and may be derived from these specialized ependymocytes (115). There is no consistent information on overproduction or underproduction of melatonin with specific types of tumor. Some work suggests that melatonin is absent or very low in treated or untreated pineal germinomas, but the consequences remain to be defined (116). Other Solid Tumors In tumour-bearing animals both increases and decreases in melatonin production have been reported. In humans low levels may be associated at least with (stage-dependent) breast and prostatic cancer (117) (and some other endocrine-independent tumours) with a negative correlation to tumour size. Remission is associated with normalisation of melatonin levels. In ovarian cancer, on the other hand, elevated melatonin is reported. A number of broad studies that have included various oncological conditions report significant differences, both increases and decreases, in plasma melatonin between types of cancer and control populations. At present these are uninterpretable, and no mechanism has been shown to account for the observed changes. The subject has been extensively reviewed (74, 117). Some data suggests that the growth of human benign prostate epithelial cells depends on both steroids and melatonin (118). Considerable effort has been expended investigating melatonin timing and production in prospective and retrospective "field" studies of cancer patients and shiftworkers (women shiftworkers have increased risk of breast cancer in most studies) assessed by the urine levels of aMT6s. An increased risk of breast cancer has been attributed to lower melatonin; however, the data are inconsistent and in some cases may be interpreted as a different timing of the rhythm rather than altered production (73,74,119,120,121). Most data are based on aMT6s concentration in morning void urines, where a change in timing of the rhythm can lead to under or over estimation of production. Breast cancer risk is associated with the presence of a clock gene polymorphism (in hper3) (122) which is associated with morning diurnal preference (lark) (123), which in turn is associated with earlier timing of the melatonin rhythm and hence lower morning aMT6s values. When urine collected over 24h is used for aMT6s measurement
