The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


(lark) (123), which in turn is associated with earlier timing of the melatonin rhythm and hence lower morning aMT6s values. When urine collected over 24h is used for aMT6s measurement no associations have been found in 2 prospective studies (121,124). Thus, a causal connection has not been firmly established and many other factors (such as continual disruption of the circadian system in general) may be involved. The association of both breast cancer and childhood leukemia with environmental exposure to electromagnetic fields (EMF) has also been attributed to melatonin suppression by EMF (81). There is little convincing evidence for this association and most recent data deny any acute suppression of melatonin in humans by EMF. Psychiatry Melatonin has been extensively used in psychiatry to assess biological clock status. There is evidence for a decline in amplitude of the melatonin rhythm in depression associated with an increase in cortisol, and possibly an increase in mania, although not all studies are consistent (125). Exceptionally delayed melatonin rhythms in winter were reported in patients with SAD compared with the small delay seen in normals (126,127) and Parry and co-workers have found abnormal melatonin patterns and response to light in premenstrual dysphoric disorder (101). At present there is still no consensus as to what causes SAD. Light treatment for SAD appears to be slightly more efficient when given in the morning (albeit with a large placebo effect) (128), thereby inducing an advance in the melatonin rhythm. However, other mechanisms are also possible. In particular it has been suggested, based on careful timing studies, that a specific phase relationship (phase angle difference) between melatonin and sleep is of primary importance.(129). Many pharmacological antidepressant treatments stimulate melatonin secretion, acting through increased availability of the precursors tryptophan and serotonin and the major pineal neurotransmitter norepinephrine, or by direct action on serotonin and catecholamine receptors . There may be a link between an increase in melatonin production and efficacy of treatment, and this possibility merits exploration. A recently introduced melatonin agonist has been developed for anti-depressant activity through its actions on serotonin-2C (5-HT2C) receptors (130,131). Melatonin and metabolism Pinealectomy in rats was reported to induce insulin resistance many years ago (e.g.132). One of the most interesting relationships of this molecule with metabolic problems emerged recently. It was observed that the gene encoding the melatonin receptor 1B (MT2/ MTNR1B ) possessed variants that were closely associated with fasting glucose and
