The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


molecule with metabolic problems emerged recently. It was observed that the gene encoding the melatonin receptor 1B (MT2/ MTNR1B ) possessed variants that were closely associated with fasting glucose and reduced beta-cell function. Moreover the same allele was associated with an increased risk of type 2 diabetes in a meta-analysis of case-control studies totalling 18,236 cases and 64,453 controls (133,134). The risk genotype predicts the future development of type 2 diabetes. Given that this is an ever increasing problem in the developed world, the scope for therapeutic interventions is clearly to be explored. Miscellaneous Many clinical attempts have been made to relate circulating melatonin to endocrine and other pathology. The results on the whole are difficult to interpret and inconsistent (see references (16, 26)). Liver disease such as cirrhosis, which impairs metabolic function, leads to higher than normal plasma concentrations of melatonin (135). Drugs that stimulate or suppress hydroxylation and conjugation mechanisms or that compete for metabolic pathways can be expected to affect circulating melatonin. Surprisingly, little evidence exists for a disturbance of melatonin secretion in major sleep disorders such as narcolepsy and Klein-Levine syndrome. However in delayed sleep phase insomnia delays in the rhythm are usually found and provide a basis for diagnosis (136). EFFECTS OF MELATONIN IN HUMANS Sleep and Circadian Rhythms Circadian rhythm disturbance is associated (among other things) with shift work, jet lag, blindness, delayed and advanced sleep phase syndromes, and old age. The most obvious symptom is poor sleep. A treatment able rapidly to shift the biological clock in all its manifestations would be of substantial benefit to large numbers of people. To date bright light is the only treatment that in suitable intensity and duration is able to do this (but clearly cannot be used in the free running sleep disorder of the blind). Although melatonin has been known to have acute sleep inducing and phase shifting effects for many years, a consensus acknowledging therapeutic benefit has only emerged in the last 10 years (137). The first evidence dates from 40 years ago when Aaron Lerner, who first isolated the substance, took 100 mg and described sleepiness after the dose . Subsequently a substantial literature, generally using much lower doses (0.3-10mg), has described advance shifts in the timing of sleep after early evening administration, transient sleepiness at several different times of day within 2-4h of the dose, time dependent increases in sleep propensity, effects
