The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


shifts in the timing of sleep after early evening administration, transient sleepiness at several different times of day within 2-4h of the dose, time dependent increases in sleep propensity, effects on the waking EEG comparable to, but not identical with, benzodiazepines, a lengthening of the first rapid eye movement (REM) episode after early evening administration, increases in the fast EEG frequencies after evening naps or night time sleep and 'beneficial effects' taken at bedtime. The latter are usually a reduction in wake after sleep onset (WASO) and an increase in total sleep time (TST) evaluated subjectively, by actigraphy and, rarely, by EEG. When melatonin was used to hasten adaptation to a 9h phase advance, TST, sleep efficiency and stage 2 sleep were increased whereas slow wave sleep (SWS) was decreased. The subject has been extensively reviewed (138-141). Convincing evidence supports a primary effect of melatonin on sleep timing, whereby melatonin induced a redistribution of sleep during an imposed sleep opportunity of 16h without an increase in total sleep time (142). Phase shifting of human circadian rhythms by melatonin was initially described in humans in the early 1980s. Phase advances were seen after 2mg daily at 1700h for one month. There were no significant effects on self-rated mood, or on levels of LH, FSH, testosterone, cortisol, growth hormone, or thyroxine. No deleterious effects were reported by the subjects (143). Advance shifts in sleep, endogenous melatonin, prolactin and core body temperature can be induced by oral administration (0.5- 10mg) in the 'biological afternoon/evening' (where biological night is the time of endogenous melatonin secretion). The magnitude of the shift is dose dependent. Delay shifts can be obtained by early 'biological morning' administration, and these time-dependent responses have been formalised as a phase response curve (PRC) (144). A simplified PRC diagram is shown in Figure 5. Melatonin given ca. 8-13 hours before core temperature minimum will phase advance, and given ca 1-4h after core temperature minimum will phase delay. More recently, it has become clear that the rhythms of cortisol and TSH (and no doubt other rhythmic variables) are also shifted by melatonin (145). Figure 5.A highly simplified diagram of phase shifts of the circadian system, as evidenced by changes in the melatonin rhythm itself, following oral treatment with fast release melatonin at different times. The maximum advance shift obtainable with a single treatment of 3-5 mg is approximately 1-1.5h. A combination of timed
