The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


itself, following oral treatment with fast release melatonin at different times. The maximum advance shift obtainable with a single treatment of 3-5 mg is approximately 1-1.5h. A combination of timed bright light treatment, timed melatonin and timed darkness/sleep applied over several days can produce much larger shifts. "Biological night" is the time of endogenous melatonin secretion and defines "circadian time" or CT which is independent of clock time. Individual timing of treatment according to clock time can vary substantially, as extremely early and extremely late phase people (larks and owls) will have differently timed "biological night". After time zone travel, or a series of night shifts, circadian phase (or biological night) can be completely reversed with, for example, melatonin production during the daytime. In addition to these acute effects, melatonin can clearly maintain synchronisation of the circadian clock to 24 hours in sighted subjects living in conditions conducive to free run, and appeared to resynchronise some subjects after a period of free run (146). In the free running blind it has been possible to stabilise the sleep wake cycle to 24 hours with improvement in sleep and mood variables, without synchronising strongly endogenous rhythms such as core body temperature. With suitable dose (0.3-10mg) and timing however, entrainment/synchronisation is possible in most subjects (147-149) ( Figure 6 ). Success was attributed to careful timing either to the advance portion of the PRC or for the treatment to start an hour before preferred bedtime, as the subjects' free running rhythm approached a normal phase. Individual sensitivity to melatonin varies and the pharmacokinetics are very different from one individual to another. The lower dose of 0.3-0.5 mg may be more effective than higher doses in many subjects. Timing at the start of treatment may be critical; however, it is possible that subjects with a very long free running period will not, ever, synchronise to melatonin. Figure 6 Melatonin can phase shift and, in some cases, synchronise circadian rhythms in some sighted and blind subjects with suitable timing of treatment and dose. Shown are the times of the calculated peaks (acrophases) of urinary 6-sulphatoxymelatonin (squares) and cortisol (circles) of a free-running blind subject with a period of 24.57h treated with placebo or 5mg melatonin daily, timed to phase advance the internal clock. Note that with melatonin a 24h period is maintained (with beneficial effects on sleep). Redrawn from reference (147). Even without full circadian
