The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


daily, timed to phase advance the internal clock. Note that with melatonin a 24h period is maintained (with beneficial effects on sleep). Redrawn from reference (147). Even without full circadian synchronisation however, melatonin has generally positive effects on sleep in the blind (150). Reproductive axis The effects of melatonin on core body temperature are reported to vary in the course of the menstrual cycle and herein may lie a physiological function (151). LH pulses are amplified in early follicular phase by oral melatonin at 0800 hours (152). Attempts to develop melatonin as a contraceptive pill in combination with a synthetic progestin "minipill" have not been successful (153). A series of studies in males with and without hypogonadism has reinforced the perception that melatonin is essentially inhibitory to human reproductive function (e.g. (154,155)), and very large doses (100 mg daily) potentiate testosterone-induced LH suppression (156). In the author's opinion, low, timed doses of melatonin used to reinforce circadian organization are likely to improve fertility in humans. Acute oral doses of melatonin stimulate prolactin secretion (157). Acute effects on other pituitary hormones are somewhat inconsistent, although a relationship between melatonin and and vasopressin secretion has been established (158). Miscellaneous Some interesting data suggests that melatonin has anti-hypertensive effects (159). Melatonin, given during the daytime, can impair performance (e.g. 160). The acute pharmacological properties of melatonin in animals include sedation, hypothermia, anxiolysis, muscle hypotonia, decrease in locomotor activity with a rebound increase on increasing the dose, slight analgesia, slight protection against electroconvulsive shock, constriction of cerebral arteries, potentiation of noradrenaline-induced vasoconstriction and very low toxicity (161). THERAPEUTIC USE OF MELATONIN Jet Lag and Shift Work Melatonin treatment timed to induce phase advances and delays has been used in the alleviation of jet lag in numerous real life and simulation conditions of which the vast majority reported beneficial effects. Field studies suggest that self-rated jet lag can be reduced on average by 50 per cent with appropriately timed treatment both westward and eastward (see (140 and 141) for a review and for recommended dose and timing). The improvement appears to be greater with larger numbers of time zones. The subjective impressions are reinforced by improved latency and quality of sleep, greater daytime alertness, and slightly more rapid resynchronization of melatonin and cortisol rhythms. Neither the dose nor the timing of melatonin administration has been fully optimized although the largest successful study reported, with respect
