The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


slightly more rapid resynchronization of melatonin and cortisol rhythms. Neither the dose nor the timing of melatonin administration has been fully optimized although the largest successful study reported, with respect to alleviating sleep problems, that 5 mg was more effective than 0.5mg and a slow release preparation taken at bedtime after flight (162). Three studies have shown no effect"a common factor in two was that the subjects were not adapted to local time before departure with consequent problems for timing the treatment. The third also appeared to use inappropriate timing of treatment. Unpredictable exposure to bright light can theoretically act in opposition to the desired result. A Cochrane review (163) recently concluded that timed melatonin was effective as a jet lag treatment; however, a meta-analysis of the effects of melatonin as a "nutritional supplement" was less enthusiastic (Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality ( http://www.ahrq.gov/news/press/pr2004/melatnpr.htm ). The American Academy of Sleep Science now recommends the use of melatonin for jet lag, delayed sleep phase syndrome and non-24h sleep wake disorder (mostly seen in blind people) (164). Some inconsistent work has been published on the use of melatonin in shift work. Preliminary work (165) suggested improved sleep and increased daytime alertness in night shift workers receiving melatonin at the desired bedtime during a night shift week compared with placebo and baseline conditions. A number of recent studies have successfully used melatonin to adapt to simulated or real shift work (reviewed in (166)) although it has to be said that several reports in the literature have shown no beneficial effects. Questions of posture, light environment and timing need to be resolved in field studies. Exposure to bright light sufficient to suppress melatonin secretion during the night is clearly beneficial to alertness and performance on the night shift whilst at the same time being a possible cause of increased cancer risk.. Some recent studies have used glasses (blue blockers) (167) which block the short wavelengths of light known to be most effective at suppressing melatonin, for work on the night shift. In theory these should preserve melatonin whilst enabling the use of bright light. More data is needed before robust recommendations can be made. Sleep Disorder in the Elderly Initially encouraging results using melatonin to alleviate sleep disorder in the elderly have proved inconsistent; however, there is no doubt that some subjects will derive benefit. As a result a slow release 2 mg
