The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


melatonin to alleviate sleep disorder in the elderly have proved inconsistent; however, there is no doubt that some subjects will derive benefit. As a result a slow release 2 mg melatonin formulation "Circadin" has been registered for use in insomnia of the over 50s (168). Dose, timing and formulation have not been fully optimized in the author's opinion. A melatonin agonist, ramelteon, has also been developed for insomnia in general and others are being developed (130). Particularly notable are a series of studies in the demented elderly evaluating the use of increased light environment and/ or melatonin treatment. Positive outcomes were associated with both light and melatonin however the authors noted a tendency to depression with melatonin and advise the use of small (0.5 mg) doses (169). Delayed Sleep Phase Insomnia Patients with delayed sleep phase insomnia cannot sleep at the socially acceptable time of night and delay sleep onset until the early hours of the morning, sleeping through much of the day. This condition has been successfully treated with bright light in the early morning to induce phase advances of the clock. In other trials evening melatonin (0.5-5 mg) has been administered, preferably 5h ahead of endogenous melatonin onset when known, or initial timing to advance the circadian clock, usually late afternoon/early evening. After realignment of sleep time the dose is taken just before normal bedtime . This treatment also advances sleep time significantly (170,171). Both children and adults were patients in one group of studies with successful outcomes (136). Judicious, timed application of both melatonin and bright light as time cues may well be the treatment of choice for rhythm disturbances. Cancer There is good evidence for photoperiod dependency and/or melatonin responsiveness of the initiation and evolution of certain cancers, particularly hormone-dependent cancers, in animals. Oncostatic effects are reported on some human cell lines, and in general the pineal and melatonin appear to have anti-tumor activity (172). In dimethylbenzanthracene-induced mammary tumors in rats, pinealectomy greatly increased the incidence of induced tumor growth, and daily melatonin administration in the late light phase greatly decreased incidence (173). Not all reports show positive results, however. A few early reports of positive effects of combination therapy- melatonin and tamoxifen, melatonin and interleukin, require confirmation (174,175). Most recently, survival time and quality of life were significantly enhanced by adjunct melatonin therapy in small cell carcinoma of the lung (176). The World Health Organisation
