The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


require confirmation (174,175). Most recently, survival time and quality of life were significantly enhanced by adjunct melatonin therapy in small cell carcinoma of the lung (176). The World Health Organisation recently concluded in a monograph (IARC) summarized in the Lancet (73,74) that there was good evidence for effects of melatonin on cancer in animals, but insufficient as yet for efficacy in humans. Melatonin when appropriately administered has generally stimulatory effects on aspects of the immune system, and positive effects on cancer may be a consequence (175). A comprehensive review of the immune system effects of melatonin can be found in (74). The evidence that melatonin also acts as a free-radical scavenger has been discussed previously. A recent review addresses the general question of the circadian system in relation to cancer: disruption of clock gene function is associated with increased risk of cancer in recent animal studies (9). Perhaps here may lie one aspect of the oncostatic activity of melatonin. By acting as a circadian coupling agent countering desynchrony amongst central and peripheral clocks, and optimising phase with respect to external time cues, cellular and system processes may be optimized and defense systems augmented. These considerations may also apply to risk of other major diseases associated with shift work (heart disease, metabolic syndrome, possible decreased fertility (177,178)). MECHANISM OF ACTION OF MELATONIN Target Sites The actions of melatonin are multiple and many must derive essentially from modification of events in the CNS. However numerous melatonin target sites also exist in the periphery. Any endogenous free-radical scavenging activity does not require a receptor. Lesions of the SCN and the anterior hypothalamic area can block photoperiodic and/or circadian effects of melatonin in some rodents, but with a degree of disparity between laboratories (179). Implants or infusion of melatonin in the hypothalamus mimic or block photoperiodic responses in several species (49). Melatonin target sites in the hypothalamus influencing seasonal variations in reproductive hormones have yet to be fully defined although there is strong evidence for a role of the premammillary hypothalamus in sheep..A recent revue considers the roles of different hypothalamic targets (180). In prepubertal rats melatonin inhibits GnRH-induced LH release in pituitary cultures at concentrations comparable to those circulating in the blood (56), and there is evidence that melatonin influences GnRH secretion from the hypothalamus (181). Using 2-125I iodomelatonin as a ligand, high-affinity (Kd 25 to 175 pM), saturable, specific, and reversible melatonin
