The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


and there is evidence that melatonin influences GnRH secretion from the hypothalamus (181). Using 2-125I iodomelatonin as a ligand, high-affinity (Kd 25 to 175 pM), saturable, specific, and reversible melatonin binding to cell membranes was initially reported in the SCN (151) and the pars tuberalis of the pituitary (183). Subsequently binding has been found in many brain and other areas including cells of the immune system, a number number of cancer cell lines, the gonads, the kidney and, importantly, the cardiovascular system. The SCN shows clear binding in human postmortem tissue (184). Species variation of melatonin-binding sites in the brain is of course apparent. The most consistent (but not universal) binding site between mammalian species is the pars tuberalis. There is good evidence that the pars tuberalis transduces the effects of photoperiod, via melatonin, on seasonal variations in prolactin secretion in ruminants (185). Morgan (186) proposed that pars tuberalis cells secrete an entirely new hormone 'tuberalin' that subsequently mediates the physiological effects of melatonin-although to date the structure has not been elucidated. Pars distalis binding is absent in adult rats but persists after birth in the neonate (187). This suggests that binding may indeed underlie function, as melatonin inhibits GnRH induced pituitary LH release in prepuberty but not in adulthood. Moreover, binding is detectable in the brain of neonatal Syrian hamsters whose circadian system responds to melatonin whereas it is lost in adults who do not respond. There are also changes with time of day, with season and as a function of exposure to melatonin (see (180) for references). Melatonin Receptors White and co-workers initially demonstrated that melatonin-induced pigment aggregation in amphibian melanophores is a pertussis toxin-sensitive system and that melatonin inhibits forskolin-activated cAMP formation (188). Intensive investigation of the properties of the pars tuberalis binding site has revealed that physiological doses of melatonin inhibit forskolin-activated cAMP production in vitro in a time- and dose-related manner (189,190). Dubocovich and co-workers have demonstrated a functional melatonin receptor, initially in rabbit and chicken retina (inhibition of calcium-dependent dopamine release), which is localized in the inner plexiform layer containing dopamine amacrine cells in rabbits, in the outer and inner segments in mice, and possibly in the pigmented layer in some mammals (191). Nuclear melatonin receptors (RZR/ROR alpha and RZR beta) have been described and may be involved in peripheral melatonin effects (192). Genetic polymorphism has been identified within melatonin membrane receptors and further
