The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


melatonin receptors (RZR/ROR alpha and RZR beta) have been described and may be involved in peripheral melatonin effects (192). Genetic polymorphism has been identified within melatonin membrane receptors and further investigation of these polymorphisms in relation to photoperioidism, human disease, sensitivity to melatonin etc. is ongoing (193,194). Melatonin membrane receptors have now been cloned and three initial subtypes were named Mel 1a, Mel 1b and Mel 1c (195). The Mel 1a receptor gene has been mapped to human chromosome 4q35.1. Its primary expression is in the pars tuberalis and the SCN but other sites have been described. Of particular interest is the observation that melatonin can alter the expression of clock genes within the pars tuberalis in a manner analogous to photoperiod. Mel 1b has been mapped to chromosome 11q21-22 and its expression is in the retina and the brain. Mel 1c is not found in mammals. Two cloned mammalian receptors (Mel 1a, Mel 1b) have been renamed MT1 and MT2 (191). They are a new family of G protein coupled receptors, have high affinity (Kd 20-160 picomolar) and inhibit forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP formation. MT1 acts through both pertussis sensitive and insensitive G proteins. The tissue expression in the SCN, the hypothalamus and the PT suggests that the circadian and reproductive effects are mediated through this receptor. Using gene knockout technology and pharmacological manipulations, results have suggested that the phase shifting receptor is MT2, whilst MT1 is associated with acute suppression of SCN electrical activity in addition to its actions within the pars tuberalis. There is also evidence for redundancy in these mechanisms, whereby both receptors can perform similar functions and recent evidence has uncovered co-expression of both MT1 and MT2 in sites associated with seasonal reproductive function in sheep (196). During development, melatonin receptors are transiently expressed in multiple neuroendocrine tissues, suggesting a novel role for melatonin as a neuroendocrine synchroniser in developmental physiology (197).. Numerous other physiological responses have been ascribed to MT1 and MT2 receptors, including (MT1) melatonin-mediated potentiation of adreneregic vasoconstriction and (MT2) modulation of dopamine release in the retina. A third putative mammalian melatonin receptor (MT3) has been identified as the enzyme quinone reductase. Numerous reviews address melatonin receptor pharmacology e.g (191, 198). Melatonin Antagonists and Agonists Large numbers of putative and actual melatonin agonists together with some antagonists have now been described. A series of agonists has been developed from napthalene derivatives. They show
