The Pineal Gland and Pineal Tumours
KEYWORDS: melatonin, circadian, sleep, pineal, light, phase, effects, rhythms, clock, rhythm, humans, secretion, time, human, timing


and Agonists Large numbers of putative and actual melatonin agonists together with some antagonists have now been described. A series of agonists has been developed from napthalene derivatives. They show a range of affinity for the pars tuberalis melatonin receptor, some being of much higher affinity than melatonin. The most interesting have similar effects to melatonin on rhythm physiology in both rodents and humans. Agomelatine is marketed as an anti-depressant in view of its activity at the serotonin-2C (5-HT2C), receptor (130, 198-206) Probably the first analogues to be synthesised were 6- and 2-halogenated melatonins. Beta-methyl-6-chloromelatonin ( LY156735 ) is being evaluated as a potential treatment for insomnia and for jet lag with efficacy demonstrated in initial trials. Ramelteon is a selective MT1/MT2 agonist and is marketed for long term use in sleep onset insomnia. Another MT1/MT2 agonist, tasimelteon (VEC-162), is under development for the treatment of circadian rhythm disorders (130). It is likely that SCN receptors mediate the circadian effects of melatonin, those in the mediobasal hypothalamus and pars tuberalis influence photoperiodic seasonal reproduction with regard to gonadotrophin secretion and prolactin respectively, and those in the retina mediate the retinal processes influenced by melatonin. The physiological functions of the multiplicity of melatonin binding sites in other areas remain to be clarified. Effects on Clock Genes Probably the most interesting development in the mechanistic aspects of the effects of melatonin concerns its influence on gene expression in the pars tuberalis. Many clock genes are expressed in the pars tuberalis (Bmal1,Clock, Per1 Per2, Cry1, Cry2) with a 24h rhythmicity different from their expression in the SCN. Per1 is activated at the beginning of the light phase and Cry1 at the beginning of the dark phase. Long or short photoperiod information is encoded within the SCN. Melatonin synthesis, driven by the SCN, conveys this photoperiodic information to the pars tuberalis by virtue of its pattern of secretion. This in turn influences the pattern of expression of the clock genes per1 and cry1 within the pars tuberalis providing a means of translating the melatonin signal for the control of seasonal prolactin variations (207-209). More recently multiple genes, including clock genes, influenced by melatonin have been identified in the pars tuberalis with numerous potential seasonal effects deriving from melatonin (210,211). The immediate early gene EGR1-RE, has been invoked as a contributor to acute melatonin dependent effects in the pars tuberalis (212). Interestingly maternal melatonin appears
