Case report
KEYWORDS: case, metabolic, management, child, mma, methylmalonic, bmj, normal, surgery, anaesthetic, acid, dextrose, patients, crisis, acidosis


Case report Anaesthetic considerations in a child with methylmalonic acidemia and its literature review Anju Gupta, Yamini Dudeja, Rashmi Ramachandran, Rajeshwari Subramaniam Anaesthesiology, Pain Medicine SUMMARY to have a suprarenal mass on abdominal ultra- and Critical care, All India Methyl malonyl coenzyme A mutase deficiency is a sound during evaluation for severe vomiting and New Delhi, India chain amino acid metabolism characterised by the the child was admitted to neonatal intensive care accumulation of methylmalonic acids. There is relative unit (NICU) at day 4 of life due to lethargy and Correspondence to paucity of literature regarding anaesthetic management poor response. Investigations at that time had Dr Anju Gupta, Anaesthesiology, Pain Medicine and Critical care, of these children presenting for incidental major revealed severe metabolic acidosis with hyperam- Sciences, New Delhi-110029, goal- directed correction of dehydration, metabolic thrombocytopenia (platelet count 32×109/L) and Delhi, India; acidosis and hyperammonemia. Anaesthetic goals leucopenia (24×109/L). An inborn error of metabo- dranjugupta2009@ rediffmail. com include avoidance of factors that can trigger metabolic lism was suspected, and tandem mass spectrometry/ crisis like hypercapnia, hypothermia, hypoxia, surgical gas chromatography mass spectrometry showed Accepted 10 November 2020 stress, hypovolaemia, hypotension and so on. Herein, raised methyl malonic acid. After 2 months of we are reporting the anaesthetic management of a NICU stay, child was discharged on special formula 17- month- old child with methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) feeds, vitamin B injections and oral carnitine. posted for a major upper abdominal surgery for excision Subsequently the child underwent multiple hospi- of an adrenal mass, which was incidentally diagnosed talisations due to acidosis and hyperammonemia during admission for an episode of metabolic crisis. We with severe vomiting, dehydration, oliguria. of the disease, preoperative optimisation, anaesthetic revealed homozygous mutation in Metabolism Of considerations, role of advanced monitoring and regional Cobalamin Associated B (MMAB) (-) gene involving anaesthesia and current literature on the management of exon-7 and a formal diagnosis of MMA of cbIB patients with MMA. complementation type was made. During her present admission, the child had signs of dehydration, tachycardia, tachypnea and delayed BACKGROUND capillary refill time. Methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) is an autosomal recessive disorder with an estimated incidence INVESTIGATIONS of 1:50 000.1 2 This disease is characterised by During present episode, her serum ammonia was abnormal functioning of methylmalonyl coen- raised (138 µmol/L; normal range: 11–32 µmol/L) zyme A mutase (MCM) leading to accumulation and arterial blood gases (ABG) revealed severe
