Case report
KEYWORDS: case, metabolic, management, child, mma, methylmalonic, bmj, normal, surgery, anaesthetic, acid, dextrose, patients, crisis, acidosis


her serum ammonia was abnormal functioning of methylmalonyl coen- raised (138 µmol/L; normal range: 11–32 µmol/L) zyme A mutase (MCM) leading to accumulation and arterial blood gases (ABG) revealed severe of methyl- malonyl coenzyme A, metabolic acidosis metabolic acidosis (pH 7.26 and HCO 18 mEq/L, and hyperammonemia. This leads to symptoms of 3 lactate, 2.5 mEq/L), positive urinary ketones and vomiting, dehydration, lethargy and weak muscle hyponatraemia (Na 122 mEq/L). Serum cortisol, tone usually with in the first month of life. Preop- testosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate erative optimisation keeping in mind the goals of (DHEAS), urine 24 hours vanillyl mandelic acid correcting the complex metabolic abnormalities and (VMA) and plasma metanephrine levels were anaesthetic management tailored explicitly to avoid normal. triggering of metabolic crisis are the cornerstones MRI was done in view of tremors, revealed of management. Multisystem involvement with its frontotemporoparietal atrophy with normal basal widespread pathophysiological effects leads to a multitude of anaesthetic challenges and concerns in ganglia and brainstem. a patient with MMA. Long- term complications associated with the TREATMENT disease include mental retardation, seizures, renal The surgery was deferred for preoperative opti- failure, coma and death. The rarity of the disease misation. The child was kept nil per orally and © BMJ Publishing Group can lead to delay in diagnosis and poor outcomes.1 resuscitated with fluid, electrolytes and sodium Limited 2020. No commercial The anaesthetic management of a child with bicarbonate over next 4 hours, after which dextrose- re- use. See rights and MMA and left suprarenal mass scheduled for left permissions. Published by BMJ. containing maintenance fluid was started at 1.5 adrenalectomy is reported. An informed consent times the maintenance rate. Treatment with sodium To cite: Gupta A, Dudeja Y, was taken from the parents of the child. benzoate was commenced and optimised to 250 mg/ Ramachandran R, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e237270. CASE PRESENTATION kg/day. The child received antibiotics, oral lactulose doi:- A 1- year and 5- month- old female child weighing syrup, L-c arnitine (100 mg/kg/day), hydroxocobal- 237270 10 kg, diagnosed as a case of MMA, was found amin 1 mg intramuscularly (IM) on alternate days, Gupta A, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e237270. doi: 1 Case report oral sodium bicarbonate (1 mEq/kg/day), oral arginine and iron DISCUSSION supplements. MMA is a rare autosomal recessive inborn error of metabolism Repeated ABG showed improvement (pH 7.38; HCO 19.2 with variable symptoms and severity depending
