Case report
KEYWORDS: case, metabolic, management, child, mma, methylmalonic, bmj, normal, surgery, anaesthetic, acid, dextrose, patients, crisis, acidosis


oral arginine and iron DISCUSSION supplements. MMA is a rare autosomal recessive inborn error of metabolism Repeated ABG showed improvement (pH 7.38; HCO 19.2 with variable symptoms and severity depending on mutation.1 mEq/L), urine ketones became negative and serum ammonia Lack of MCM enzyme, partially active enzyme, or defects in came down to 97 mmol/L. Over next few days, feeds were cobalamin metabolism lead to accumulation of methylmalonic started using low protein diet. MRI was done in view of tremors, acid. Affected children may present with symptoms within first revealed frontotemporoparietal atrophy with normal basal few days or begin to show symptoms later in infancy or child- ganglia and brainstem. Serum cortisol, testosterone, DHEAS, hood depending on genetic inheritance. Usual presentation urine 24 hours VMA and plasma metanephrine levels were is poor appetite, frequent vomiting, extreme sleepiness, low normal. muscle tone, lethargy and tremors. During preoperative evaluation, the child was active and there Left untreated, the disease progresses to breathing problems, were no signs of dehydration. She did not have any dysmor- cardiomyopathy, seizure, stroke, coma and death. Children phic facies and airway was normal. Investigations revealed demonstrate disability, development delay, osteoporosis, hepato- anaemia (haemoglobin 8.3 g/dL), normal electrolytes and venous megaly, kidney disorders and vision loss. Management includes low protein diet, L-c arnitine, arginine, vitamin B (as hydroxo- blood gases. Her coagulation profile, serum ammonia level (32 12 cobalamin) and mineral supplementation, antibiotics to reduce μmol/L), liver and renal function were within normal limits. intestinal flora, sodium bicarbonate and sodium benzoate.2–4 ECG and echocardiogram were normal. Intravenous L-c ar- Neonates and infants with organic acidurias and severe keto- nitine was continued till surgery and infusion were continued acidosis present with intracellular dehydration that is often intraoperatively. Hydroxocobalamin was given IM night underestimated. Therefore, adequate rehydration is essential. before and on morning of surgery and 10% dextrose (5 ml. kg. The child in the index report was aggressively resuscitated with h- 1) was continued during fasting period and for maintenance fluid, electrolytes and sodium bicarbonate, following which intraoperatively. dextrose- containing maintenance fluid was started at 1.5 times Standard fasting guidelines were followed. Inside the oper- the maintenance rate. ating room, five lead electrocardiography, pulse oximetry and However, over aggressive hydration and alkalinisation may non- invasive blood pressure were attached and monitored cause or exacerbate cerebral oedema. Hence, judicious rehydra- continually. Heating mattress and intravenous fluid warmer tion and ABG- guided
