Case report
KEYWORDS: case, metabolic, management, child, mma, methylmalonic, bmj, normal, surgery, anaesthetic, acid, dextrose, patients, crisis, acidosis


and alkalinisation may non- invasive blood pressure were attached and monitored cause or exacerbate cerebral oedema. Hence, judicious rehydra- continually. Heating mattress and intravenous fluid warmer tion and ABG- guided correction of electrolyte and acid–base were used intraoperatively. Anaesthesia was induced with tered for achieving neuromuscular blockade, and airway was L- carnitine therapy is mainly given to compensate for secondary secured using 5 mm internal diameter uncuffed endotracheal carnitine deficiency caused by urinary loss of carnitine-b ound to tube. Following anaesthesia induction, right internal jugular organic acids and is considerably safe.1 2 L-c arnitine supplemen- vein was cannulated with ultrasound guidance using five French tation seems to contribute to the reduction of hyperammonemia central venous catheter. A caudal epidural catheter was inserted. and demonstrates antioxidant capacity. Ammonia scavengers are Anaesthesia was maintained with isoflurane (minimum alveolar drugs that allow bypassing of the urea cycle, by conjugation of concentration 0.8%–1.2%), a gas mixture of oxygen and air benzoate with glycine to generate hippurate. Sodium benzoate (FiO 0.4). Analgesia was provided with 1% ropivacaine plus has been reported to be safe and efficacious to treat hyperam- 20 µg/kg morphine through the caudal catheter and parac- monemia.1 In the present case, sodium bicarbonate, L- carnitine, etamol 150 mg intravenous. arginine and sodium benzoate were given to manage acute crisis Blood sugar, end- tidal carbon dioxide, ABG, urine output and and continued perioperatively. Hydroxocobalamin was admin- oropharyngeal temperature were monitored intraoperatively istered on morning of surgery and L-c arnitine was continued as and remained within normal limits. There were no episodes of infusion throughout the surgery. hypoxia or haemodynamic instability. The surgery lasted for Affected children who require surgery need careful preop- approximately 3 hours with minimal blood loss (25–30 mL). At erative assessment to diagnose and quantify extent of decom- the end of procedure, ABG showed pH 7.30, pCO 40.6 mm Hg, pensation. Elective surgery should be postponed for optimising HCO 19.6 mmol/L and lactate 1.9 mmol/L. Antiemetic prophy- metabolic acidosis, dyselectrolytemia or increased blood laxis was provided with ondansetron 1 mg intravenous. Neuro- ammonia levels.5 The index case was initially deferred for muscular blockade was reversed using intravenous neostigmine correction of the metabolic derangements. Hyperkalemia 70 µg/kg and glycopyrrolate 10 µg/kg. Since recovery of respira- secondary to metabolic acidosis has previously been implicated tory effort was inadequate, the child was mechanically ventilated in cardiac arrest in a child with MMU.6 In case
