Case report
KEYWORDS: case, metabolic, management, child, mma, methylmalonic, bmj, normal, surgery, anaesthetic, acid, dextrose, patients, crisis, acidosis


recovery of respira- secondary to metabolic acidosis has previously been implicated tory effort was inadequate, the child was mechanically ventilated in cardiac arrest in a child with MMU.6 In case of metabolic for 4 hours. crisis and emergency surgery, perioperative hemodialysis should be considered.5 6 Though rare, prolonged QTc and cardiomyopathy has been OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP described and should be ruled out by getting a baseline ECG and The trachea could be extubated following return of conscious- echocardiography.7 ness and regular breathing pattern. Sharar et al8 highlighted the importance of minimising preop- Postoperatively, treatment for MMA was continued, repeated erative fasting period and starting dextrose- containing fluid ABG sampling and serum ammonia level were done and opti- during fasting period and continuing it intraoperatively as mised. Analgesia was maintained by epidural morphine 40 µg/ prolonged fasting can trigger protein catabolism and metabolic kg diluted in 6 mL normal saline administered two times a day crisis. In the present case, fasting period was minimised and and intravenous paracetamol 15 mg/kg four times a day. Epidural dextrose- containing intravenous fluid was continued perioper- catheter was removed on postoperative day 3. atively as a metabolic substrate in the dose described by Baba 2 Gupta A, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e237270. doi: Case report et al.5 Previous authors have supplemented dextrose infusion multimodal analgesia to minimise perioperative surgical stress perioperatively in varying doses as dextrose normal saline, 5% were the keys to successful outcome. or 10% dextrose.5 9 10 Anaesthetic technique needs to be tailored depending on Learning points patient status and surgical needs. Intraoperatively factors that can trigger metabolic crisis like hypercapnia, hypothermia, hypoxia, ► Patients with methylmalonic acidemia need aggressive surgical stress, hypotension and so on should be avoided.11 In preoperative interdisciplinary care and vigilant intraoperative the index case, diligent care was taken to maintain oxygenation, management for a successful outcome. normothermia, normocapnia, normovolemia and normotension. ► Preoperative optimisation of acid–base disorder, Avoidance of hypotension and hypovolaemia is of paramount dyselectrolytemia, ketonemia, hydration status, ammonia importance.5 Hence, invasive monitoring (central venous pres- levels are mandatory prior to scheduling the patient for an sure) was instituted, and central venous pressure, acid–base elective surgical procedure. In addition, paracetamol provided multimodal analgesia. ► Judicious use of invasive monitoring and regional anaesthesia Provision of good postoperative analgesia by continuing (continued postoperatively) can be crucial in improving the epidural analgesia postoperatively helped to minimise outcomes and
