Case report
KEYWORDS: case, metabolic, management, child, mma, methylmalonic, bmj, normal, surgery, anaesthetic, acid, dextrose, patients, crisis, acidosis


use of invasive monitoring and regional anaesthesia Provision of good postoperative analgesia by continuing (continued postoperatively) can be crucial in improving the epidural analgesia postoperatively helped to minimise outcomes and recovery of these patients. any adverse metabolic consequences of pain. Uemura et al10 ► Infusion of dextrose and carnitine perioperatively, diligent reported anaesthetic management of a case of MMA using a monitoring using invasive and non- invasive modalities, combination of general anaesthesia and rectus sheath block. maintaining acid–base complications postoperatively. Steroids were avoided as a part Contributors AG: collected data, reviewed literature, written the first draft and of multimodal analgesia as their catabolic effects can trigger revised, manuscript and approved the final version. YD: collected data, reviewed acute crisis and decompensation.1 Patients with MMA are at literature and approved the final version. RR: reviewed literature, supervised the risk for renal insufficiency, so non- steroidal anti- inflammatory case, revised manuscript and approved the final version. RS: revised manuscript and approved the final version. drugs (NSAIDs) are avoided as was followed in the present case. Also, NSAIDs such as derivatives of ibuprofen, loxo- Funding The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any funding agency in the public, commercial or not- for- profit sectors. profen and flurbiprofen axetil metabolise into methylmalonic acid and should be carefully evaded.10 Competing interests None declared. Nitrous oxide inhibits adenosylcobalamine and should be Patient consent for publication Parental/guardian consent obtained. avoided, especially in patients responsive to vitamin B therapy.8 Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. In present case and other previous reports of MMU, combina- tion of air/oxygen was used intraoperatively while vitamin B REFERENCES was administered preoperatively.9 10 1 Baumgartner MR, Hörster F, Dionisi-V ici C, et al. Proposed guidelines for the diagnosis Safety of propofol in MMA patients has been debated as it and management of methylmalonic and propionic acidemia. Orphanet J Rare Dis was found to be associated with metabolic decompensation in a 2014;9:130. liver transplant patients.5 However, recently propofol has been 2 Deodato F, Boenzi S, Santorelli FM, et al. Methylmalonic and propionic aciduria. Am J Med Genet C Semin Med Genet 2006;142C:104–12. purported to be safe for short- term use in these patients as its 3 de Baulny HO, Benoist JF, Rigal O, et al. Methylmalonic and propionic acidaemias: preparation lacks odd chain fatty acids, which were attributed management and outcome. J Inherit Metab Dis
