RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: cattle, cchf, seroprevalence, study, household, animal, ticks, animals, base, livestock, factors, small, human, burkina faso, yes


Antigen Multi-species ELISA (IDvet, Grabels, PLOS One | May 4, 2026 1 / 24 study as part of the applied research activities France). Descriptive statistics and multivariable multilevel analyses were used to that were being implemented under the One assess factors associated with exposure of cattle and small ruminants to CCHF Health Research Education and Outreach virus, while the Fisher’s exact test was applied to assess the risk factors for human Centre (OHRECA) and led by the International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI). exposure. Competing interests: The authors have declared that no competing interests exist. Results: The study included 717 livestock farmers and 2,295 animals, comprising 666 cattle, 659 sheep and 970 goats. The overall CCHF virus (CCHFV) seroprevalence was 3.1% (95% CI: 1.9–4.6) in humans and 54% (95% CI: 50.2–57.7) in cattle. In small ruminants, the overall seroprevalence was 5.2% (95% CI: 4.2–6.4), with 9.1% (95% CI: 7.1–11.5) in sheep, and 2.5% (95% CI: 1.7–3.8) in goats. Farmers with inade- quate livestock management-related biosecurity behaviour exhibited higher seroprev- alence rates and an increased risk of CCHFV seropositivity. In cattle, seropositivity was positively associated with older age, female sex, longer grazing distances, and tick infestation. Seropositivity in small ruminants was associated with older age, being of the sheep species, and longer grazing distances. Ecological factors, including a higher aridity index in both cattle and small ruminants, and steeper slopes in cattle, were significant in univariate and multivariable analysis, respectively. The seroprev- alence in both cattle and small ruminants showed significant clustering within house- holds, with intra-cluster correlation (ICC) rates of 39% and 62%, respectively. Conclusion: This study highlighted that CCHFV is circulating among humans and their livestock in rural Burkina Faso. Individual and household-related risk factors, including socio- demographic, livestock management practices, and ecological characteristics, were identified. These findings provide valuable insights for designing tailored public health interventions towards strengthening CCHF surveillance and prevention among rural households. Background Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever (CCHF) is a severe and often deadly viral infection. It is one of the most widespread viral zoonoses, and endemic in various countries across Eastern Europe, Africa, Asia, and the Middle East . CCHF is a tick-borne infection that occurs in a broad range of vertebrates, in which it is typically asymptomatic . Apart from tick bites, the virus is transmitted to humans through exposure to bodily fluids of viremic animals or patients . CCHF orthonairovirus (Orthonairovirus haemorrhagiae) is a
