RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: cattle, cchf, seroprevalence, study, household, animal, ticks, animals, base, livestock, factors, small, human, burkina faso, yes


typically asymptomatic . Apart from tick bites, the virus is transmitted to humans through exposure to bodily fluids of viremic animals or patients . CCHF orthonairovirus (Orthonairovirus haemorrhagiae) is a biosafety level 4 viral pathogen, a negative- sense RNA virus belonging to the genus Orthonairovirus, family Nairoviridae (class Bunyaviricetes order Hareavirales) . It is characterised by a high genetic diversity, and distinct strains are distributed across endemic regions. All CCHFV genotypes share potential for human pathogenicity, however laboratory evidence PLOS One | May 4, 2026 2 / 24 shows strain-specific virulence . The main vectors responsible for the transmission of CCHFV are ticks of the genus Hyalomma. The virus has also been detected in several other tick species, including ticks of the genus Rhipicephalus, Haemaphysalis, Dermacentor, Ixodes, Amblyomma and Ornithodoros , but the role of these tick species in the CCHF epidemiology and spread dynamics remains to be clarified. Historically, the distribution of CCHF in both animals and humans was geographically restricted to specific regions where competent tick vectors were present. However, climate change has facilitated the adaptation of ticks to different environments, thus facilitating the spread of the virus to previously unaffected areas, making CCHF an emerging public a priority disease for research and development due to its potential to cause major epidemics in humans. Yet, no reliable vaccines are available . In sub-Saharan Africa, human cases of CCHF are still frequently reported after the first documented case occurred in the Democratic Republic of Congo in 1956 . Over the past two decades, several sporadic human cases of CCHF were reported from countries such as Kenya , Senegal and Uganda . Larger outbreaks were detected in Mauritania in 2003, with 38 confirmed cases, and Sudan, with two successive epidemics in 2008 and 2009 . Domestic animals are the amplifying hosts in the CCHF virus cycle , and serosurveys can be used in both humans and domestic animals to inform on CCHF virus circulation. Several studies in West Africa have shown varying seroprevalence levels depending on the regions and animal species. Low seroprevalence in cattle was found in the Democratic Republic of Congo (1.6% in Katanga province) , while higher seroprevalences were reported in Burkina Faso (72.2% in cattle; 14.8% in sheep) , Mali (66% in cattle) , Mauritania (67% in cattle, 81% in camels) , Senegal (70.3% in horses, 57.1% in cattle, 22.1% in sheep) , Sudan (21.3% in
