RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: cattle, cchf, seroprevalence, study, household, animal, ticks, animals, base, livestock, factors, small, human, burkina faso, yes


in sheep) , Mali (66% in cattle) , Mauritania (67% in cattle, 81% in camels) , Senegal (70.3% in horses, 57.1% in cattle, 22.1% in sheep) , Sudan (21.3% in camels) . These high seroprevalences in animals across sub-Saharan Africa reinforce the idea that the disease may be under- reported in the region . Limited human seroprevalence studies indicate active viral circulation in countries such as Ghana and Mauritania , with respective seroprevalence rates of 3.7% and 11.8%. However, the implementation of effective control measures and the strengthening of surveillance efforts are often hampered by the lack of robust scien- distribution and infection rates. In Burkina Faso, livestock farming and trade are essential for the local economy and the livelihood of rural communities . However, common rearing practices may promote the spread of the disease. Despite the recent progress in inte- diseases remains limited. Therefore, reliable data on human CCHF seroprevalence in Burkina Faso are limited, with the last confirmed human case having been reported in 1984 . Such data are essential for evaluating CCHF risks, partic- ularly among rural farmers. Understanding the complex interactions between animals, humans, the environment, and tick vectors is critical to elucidating CCHF transmission dynamics. This study aims to investigate the seroprevalence and risk factors of CCHF in humans and their livestock in rural households of Burkina Faso. Methods Ethics statement This study received ethical approval from the Burkina Faso Health Sciences Research Ethics Committee (Ref: 2022- 04-081) and the Institutional Research Ethics Committee of the International Livestock Research Institute (Ref: ILRI- IREC2022-15 and ILRI-IACUC2022-14) prior to its implementation. Written informed consent was obtained from all participants or their parents/legal guardians for children (under 18 years old). All procedures adhered to relevant guide- lines and regulations, consistent with the Helsinki Declaration . Animals were included with the informed consent of the owner and/or the herders. Animal sampling was conducted with strict adherence to animal welfare practices. PLOS One | May 4, 2026 3 / 24 Study location The study framework was outlined in a previous work . Briefly, Burkina Faso, a landlocked country located in West Africa with limited resources, has a human population estimated at approximately 21 million inhabitants, of which 51.7% are women. Livestock production plays a significant role in the national economy, providing essential products and services, such as food and income . The study was conducted in two administrative regions of
