RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: cattle, cchf, seroprevalence, study, household, animal, ticks, animals, base, livestock, factors, small, human, burkina faso, yes


Livestock production plays a significant role in the national economy, providing essential products and services, such as food and income . The study was conducted in two administrative regions of the country: the “Hauts-Bassins” region and the North region. These regions were selected based on their proximity to Mali, where a CCHF outbreak occurred in 2020 in the Mopti region that borders Burkina Faso , their involvement in intensive cross-border livestock transhumance and also based on differences in key livelihood activities, environment and livestock breeding practices between the two regions . The “Hauts-Bassins” region, located in the western part of the coun- try and covering a South-Soudanian agro-climatic zone, is characterised by mixed crop-livestock systems. In 2019, the human population was estimated at approximately 2 million inhabitants, with 51.1% being women . In contrast, the North region lies in a semi-desert area and is characterised by a distinct phytogeographical zone and a predominantly extensive and semi-intensive livestock production system . The human population of the North region was approxi- mately estimated at 1,7 million, with 52.2% of females . Two communes were chosen in each region based on their affluence, geographical representativeness, and accessibility regarding security issues in the country. In each commune, four villages were randomly selected from a list of all villages, ensuring alignment with the average village population size and the study’s sample size requirements, resulting in a total of sixteen villages (Fig 1). Study design and sample size calculation A cross-sectional tick-animal-human linked study was conducted from February 6th to March 23rd, 2023. The sample sizes were calculated for each study population (humans, cattle, sheep and goats) using the standard for- mula [Formula 1] for sample size calculation and considering assumed different prevalences from recent studies in West Africa . The formula used was: Z2p(1–p) N= D e2 ∗ eff [Formula 1] N is the sample size Z is 1.96 at a 95% confidence level p is the estimated proportion of CCHF positive individuals e is the accuracy of the desired estimate (see the table below) Deff is the adjustment for design effect, it is fixed at 3.7 The Deff is calculated using the formula: Deff (DesignEffect) = 1 + ICC(K-1) ICC = intra-cluster (household) correlation fixed at 0.3 , K = average cluster size fixed at 10 The assumed prevalence of CCHF among humans was estimated at 5.7% , and applying the above formula allows
