RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: cattle, cchf, seroprevalence, study, household, animal, ticks, animals, base, livestock, factors, small, human, burkina faso, yes


randomly selected to complete the PLOS One | May 4, 2026 5 / 24 required sample, and each of them was interviewed individually. Children were interviewed with the assistance and super- vision of their parents or legal guardians. Whenever possible, up to five cattle, five sheep, and ten goats aged six months and older were randomly selected from each household heard for inclusion in the study. Questionnaire design, data and sample collection • Development and quality control of data collection materials To ensure uniformity, the data collection instrument was initially developed in French, translated into the most commonly spoken local languages in the study regions (Dioula in “Hauts-Bassins” and Mooré in the North), and then re-translated into French and English. The questionnaire underwent pilot testing on 5% of the total sample size before being validated by the study team. Validation involved identifying and revising unclear questions post-pretest. Additionally, supervisory personnel reviewed the data daily to verify its completeness and accuracy. • Human, animal data and sample collection Socio-demographic data from selected households and their members were collected alongside specific inquiries into agro-pastoral practices, individual and collective risk factors of CCHF. The data were collected electronically on tablets using the KoboToolBox . The socio-demographic data encompassed household size, the number of men, women, and children, land area cultivated, types and quantities of animals raised, and an inventory of household assets including live- stock, vehicles, agricultural machinery, and motorcycles. Additionally, age, sex, and education level of each participant were recorded. Initially, the head of the household provided general household information, followed by individual interviews. Participants under 18 years old were interviewed in the presence of a parent or legal guardian. Selected animals’ biodata, including age, sex, and estimated weight by girth circumference [36–39], were also collected. Animal ages were primarily given by the owner during the interview and cross-checked by the trained veterinarian using standard dental examination techniques (S4 Appendix). The questionnaires were administered by a multidisciplinary team comprising human, tocols, biosafety, sampling techniques (blood collection, tick removal), and questionnaire administration prior to fieldwork. Blood samples were collected from all consenting humans and their animals following the previously described sampling procedure. Each recruited animal was restrained by a team of trained veterinary personnel using appropriate equipment (halter, ropes and cattle nose pliers) to minimise stress and risk of injury, after which 10 mL of blood was drawn from the jugular vein into
