RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: cattle, cchf, seroprevalence, study, household, animal, ticks, animals, base, livestock, factors, small, human, burkina faso, yes


personnel using appropriate equipment (halter, ropes and cattle nose pliers) to minimise stress and risk of injury, after which 10 mL of blood was drawn from the jugular vein into a non-heparinised tube using a G18 needle. For humans, 5 mL of blood was collected from the antecubital vein using a G22 needle, with participants seated comfortably to avoid injury. All samples, from both humans and animals, samples were sent to the National Influenza Reference Laboratory in the capital city, Ouagadougou, for ELISA testing. • Collection of ticks from animals For tick collection, each animal was restrained and laid on its flank for approximately 15 minutes to facilitate the collection of all ticks attached to the opposite side. This process was repeated for the other flank so that the entire body surface of each animal was examined. Ticks were collected using forceps from typical attachment sites, e.g., the head, neck, udder, perineal region at the base of the tail, and dependent areas such as the abdomen, legs, joints, and shoulder. Collected ticks were placed into perforated 15 mL vials. Morphological identification of the ticks was conducted using the keys described by Apanaskevich et al., and Walker et al., . • Climatic and ecological data Climatic and environmental data were collected for each of our study sites to assess risk factors, using the GPS coordi- nates of the households (Fig 2). These data were downloaded from online sources, including: i) Climatic variables, such PLOS One | May 4, 2026 6 / 24 Fig 2. Maps showing the estimates of main geoclimatic covariates included in the CCHF risk factors analysis, (average from 1970 to 2000). The limitations of the two regions of study are presented. The maps were designed by Stephen Oloo using QGIS version 3.36.3 and shapefiles from as annual mean precipitations and annual mean temperature obtained from WorldClim , and ii) geographic variables such as the digital elevation model and slope, aridity index, mean Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), mean Modified Normalized Difference Water Index (MNDWI), and the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) global landcover layers . • Serological assay The serological study involved analysing both human and animal serum samples to detect total antibodies specific to the CCHFV nucleocapsid protein. The ID Screen® CCHF Double Antigen Multi-species ELISA (IDvet, Grabels, France) was employed for this purpose, following the manufacturer’s established protocols. This assay is known for its high diagnostic
