RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: cattle, cchf, seroprevalence, study, household, animal, ticks, animals, base, livestock, factors, small, human, burkina faso, yes


protein. The ID Screen® CCHF Double Antigen Multi-species ELISA (IDvet, Grabels, France) was employed for this purpose, following the manufacturer’s established protocols. This assay is known for its high diagnostic PLOS One | May 4, 2026 7 / 24 accuracy, with a reported sensitivity ranging from 96.8% to 99.8% (95% Confidence Interval) and specificity between 99.8% and 100% (95% Confidence Interval), as validated in prior studies . • Variables definition, data management, and analysis The data were anonymised, cleaned and analysed using STATA 18 (StataCorp). Three outcome variables were defined based on the results of CCHF serology tests (coded 1 for positive and 0 for negative): serology test results for humans, cattle and small ruminants (combining the results from goats and sheep). The explanatory variables included household characteristics, socio-demographic characteristics of the participants, animal biodata, ticks’ carriage and annual ecologi- cal and climatic data for the study areas. Descriptive analyses were performed, including the calculation of prevalence by species and 95% confidence intervals. A series of univariate analyses was conducted between the three outcome vari- ables and the explanatory variables. Chi-squared or Fisher’s exact tests were used to compare categorical variables. Assuming that CCHF seroprevalence in animals may be clustered by household, we performed a two-level multilevel regression to control for the clustering effect. This group effect was assessed by testing each of the dependent variables with a null two-effect model that included random intercepts and fixed effects, with level 1 representing the individuals (n = 665 for bovines and n = 1,624 for small ruminants) and level 2 representing the household of origin (n = 140 for bovines and n = 143 for small ruminants) (S1 Appendix, S2 Appendix). We then employed a univariate multilevel regression to assess the associations between the dependent and explanatory variables. A multivariable and multilevel regression model with random intercepts and fixed effects was then initiated for the animal outcome variables (Cattle serology results and small ruminant serology results) using the stepwise forward selection method. Variables with a p-value ≤ 0.2 were progressively included to obtain the final models. The successive models were compared using AIC (Akaike Information Criterion) and BIC (Bayesian Information Criterion) to select the best fit. Post-estimation tests were conducted to assess the stability of the final models using a series of tests available in STATA 18 (StataCorp) (S3 Appendix). However, multi- variable analysis was not conducted for the human serology
