RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: cattle, cchf, seroprevalence, study, household, animal, ticks, animals, base, livestock, factors, small, human, burkina faso, yes


Table 4 summarises the diversity and characteristics of the collected ticks. In total, ten species belonging to three genera were identified: Ambly- omma, Hyalomma, and Rhipicephalus (including the subgenus Boophilus). Within the Amblyomma genus, only Ambly- omma variegatum was detected. The Hyalomma genus was represented by four species, of which Hyalomma truncatum (41%) and Hyalomma rufipes (36.5%) were the most prevalent. Similarly, five species were identified within the Rhipiceph- alus genus, including the invasive Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus alongside native species such as R. (B.) decolora- tus and R. (B.) geigyi. CCHF seroprevalence and associated factors among humans The overall seroprevalence of CCHF antibodies among farmers was 3.1% (95% CI: 1.9–4.6). Seroprevalence was higher in females (3.6%) compared to males (2.1%) and varied by age group: 4.7% in individuals aged ≥35 years, 2.6% in those aged 15–34 years, and 0.7% in those under 15 years. Seroprevalence also differed by education level, with no cases among those with no formal education. Overall, seroprevalence was higher among individuals engaging in high-risk practices, such as a history of exposure to animal fluids, assisting livestock parturition with bare hands, having a history of tick bites and their removal/crushing with bare hands, and participating in animal slaughtering. The duration of contact with livestock was significantly related to CCHF seropositivity, with those in higher categories of contact (6–12 hours/day and >12 hours/day) showing higher seroprevalence (p = 0.014). Other risk factors associated with CCHF seropositivity included cleaning livestock pens (p = 0.039) and handling carcasses without protection (p = 0.016) (Table 5). CCHF seroprevalence and associated factors among cattle The overall seroprevalence of CCHF in cattle was 54% (95% CI: 50.2–57.7) and varied significantly across several fac- tors. Regional differences were observed, with a higher prevalence in the “Hauts-Bassins” region compared to the North (p = 0.004). Seroprevalence was significantly associated with sex, with male cattle showing lower odds of positivity than females (p = 0.043). Age was also a strong predictor in both univariable and multivariable analyses, with older cattle (≥ 60 months) having the highest seroprevalence (p < 0.001). Cattle with higher estimated weights had a significantly higher prevalence, with animals weighing 150–199 kg or ≥200 kg having increased odds of seropositivity (p < 0.001). The pres- ence of ticks was also significantly associated with seropositivity (p = 0.007), and cattle with more than five ticks collected had a significantly higher seroprevalence (p = 0.006).
