RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: cattle, cchf, seroprevalence, study, household, animal, ticks, animals, base, livestock, factors, small, human, burkina faso, yes


Seroprevalence was higher among individuals engaged in risky biosafety practices, and was significantly associated with the amount of time spent in contact with animals . Contact with animal fluids under poor biosafety conditions is a livestock professionals, livestock keepers, herders, abattoir workers, meat traders, as well as meat consumers may be at high risk of infection to CCHF . According to previous studies, human seroconversion is rapid and may persist for up to five years [61–63]. Moreover, certain sociocultural and livestock management practices, such as home slaughter and extensive grazing systems, have been epidemiologically linked to CCHF spread . However, it should be noted that seroprevalence data reflect exposure risk and do not necessarily correlate with the risk of clinical CCHF cases. This potential discrepancy may be explained by limited knowledge regarding the relationship between viral infection and symptom development, which may be virus-strain dependent . Additionally, the predominance of subclinical forms among infected cases and limited diag- nostic capacity may contribute to the “silent circulation” of the virus in human populations . In animals, we found a high seroprevalence among cattle (54%), consistent with previous findings in Burkina Faso and other West African countries such as Mali (66%) and Mauritania (67%) . In contrast, seroprevalence was substantially lower among small ruminants (9.1% in sheep and 2.5% in goats), which aligns with the known ecological role of vertebrate hosts in the Hyalomma life cycle. In many Hyalomma ticks, immature stages preferentially parasitise small mammals such as rodents and lagomorphs, while adult ticks predominantly feed on large ruminants, particularly cattle . Additionally, the larger size of cattle compared to sheep and goats likely increases their susceptibility PLOS One | May 4, 2026 18 / 24 to tick infestation, thereby elevating their risk of infection. Seroprevalence in cattle was significantly higher in animals from which more than five ticks were collected, as shown in both univariate and multivariable analyses. While the timing of tick collection does not reflect the moment of infection, it might serve as a proxy for a history of more frequent or intense tick infestations and thus a higher risk of becoming exposed to CCHFV. A significant difference in seroprevalence was also observed between sheep and goats, with sheep showing a higher rate of exposure. This is consistent with findings from similar studies , suggesting potential species-specific differences in susceptibility or tick-host interactions and species-specific husbandry practices. Other risk
