RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: cattle, cchf, seroprevalence, study, household, animal, ticks, animals, base, livestock, factors, small, human, burkina faso, yes


showing a higher rate of exposure. This is consistent with findings from similar studies , suggesting potential species-specific differences in susceptibility or tick-host interactions and species-specific husbandry practices. Other risk factors for CCHF seropositivity in animals included biological characteristics such as age (in both cattle and small ruminants), sex (cattle), and estimated weight (cattle). The association with age is likely related to cumulative expo- sure to infected ticks over time, particularly given that antibody responses can persist for several years . Similar find- ings have been reported in sub-Saharan Africa for cattle and other domestic animals . The associations with sex and weight may partly reflect age-related factors and may also be linked to husbandry practices that increase exposure of female cattle to infection . Indeed, in local breeding practices, female animals are kept on farms for as long as possible to ensure reproduction and herd renewal, while adult males are generally sold for income. Extensive livestock production also plays an important role by facilitating contact between herds, including those from potentially endemic areas . Our study also investigates the diversity and characteristics of ticks collected on livestock across the two regions and four communes. The greatest diversity of ticks was observed in the Hauts-Bassins region, in the communes of Satiri and Karangasso Vigué. This aligns with tick densities observed in these areas, which contrasts with the lower densities reported in communes located in the North region. The variation in tick populations across these regions suggests that ecological factors, such as vegetation, climate, and livestock management practices, may play significant roles in deter- mining tick abundance and diversity. Although we were not able to molecularly analyze the ticks collected from livestock, which would have been useful to confirm tick identities, the morphological identification revealed presence of Hyalomma species, recognized as a primary vector of CCHF . CCHFV has also been detected in the other genera of ticks found during our study (Amblyomma and Rhipicephalus) , but their contribution to virus transmission remains less well established compared with Hyalomma spp. In surrounding countries of Burkina Faso, CCHFV was found in tick samples from the same three main genera in Ivory Coast and Ghana . Furthermore, environmental and climatic factors contribute to the distribution of disease. In our study, aridity, mean NDVI, temperature, and precipitation were associated with cattle seroprevalence in univariate analyses. We observed significant regional differences in seroprevalence among cattle
