RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: cattle, cchf, seroprevalence, study, household, animal, ticks, animals, base, livestock, factors, small, human, burkina faso, yes


the distribution of disease. In our study, aridity, mean NDVI, temperature, and precipitation were associated with cattle seroprevalence in univariate analyses. We observed significant regional differences in seroprevalence among cattle and small ruminants, with the more humid region (Hauts- Bassins) showing higher seroprevalence for both groups. In multivariable analysis, slope remained significantly associated with CCHF prevalence in cattle as for other similar studies . These reconfirm that CCHF presence and risk is driven by ecological and climatic factors [74–77]. The ecological conditions of the savanna, arid and semi-arid land of Burkina Faso are ideal for Hyalomma spp. tick survival and growth with seasonal variations . The null two-level mixed-effects logistic regression model with a random intercept for household for both cattle and small ruminants provides evidence that seroprevalence is not randomly distributed among animals but is instead clustered within households. The high ICC values highlight the importance of household-level factors in shaping exposure risk. Such clustering is expected in zoonotic systems where exposure to vectors (ticks) or infection sources (infected animals, shared pastures, and housing practices) is shared within households. Household-level clustering of vector-borne or zoonotic infections in livestock has been reported in other studies . This suggests that shared environmental, ecological, and behavioral risk factors within households or herds play a central role in transmission dynamics . In our study, the household-level factors identified include the presence of tick-infested animals, shared grazing with external herds, and risky handling or slaughtering practices. Notably, the higher ICC observed in small ruminants may reflect more homo- geneous husbandry conditions within households compared to cattle, which may have more variable exposure due to grazing or movement patterns. PLOS One | May 4, 2026 19 / 24 These findings have important implications for disease surveillance and control. They suggest that household-based interventions, rather than individual animal or human, could improve the efficiency of control programs . For example, coordinated tick control, biosafety training, and improvement of animal housing at the household scale may yield higher impact than animal-level interventions alone . While the study provided a set of informative data, some limitations encountered can be discussed. First, relying on seropositivity data without confirmatory testing using neutralisation tests may lead to false positives due to cross- reactions. Cross reactions with orthonairoviruses have been described in previous studies, where antibodies against related viruses can produce false positive results in ELISA-based assays . This could affect the
