Percutaneous deep venous arterialisation for chronic limb-threatening ischaemia
KEYWORDS: procedure, committee, outcomes, blood, venous, life, quality, safety, quality life, blood flow, efficacy, nice, ischaemia, chronic, evidence


mortality rates, and poor quality of life. Current treatments 2.2 Chronic limb-threatening ischaemia usually needs treatment to re- establish blood flow to the affected area and to prevent major amputation. Treatment options include medications, endovascular interventions (such as angioplasty, stents and directional atherectomy) and surgical treatments (such as bypass). Management of chronic limb- threatening ischaemia is described in NICE's clinical guideline on peripheral arterial disease. The procedure 2.3 The procedure uses an endovascular, minimally invasive approach. An arteriovenous fistula is created to allow venous arterialisation in the below-the-knee vasculature. The aim is to restore blood flow to the ischaemic foot. 2.4 Preoperative investigation is needed to confirm adequate pedal venous anatomy and identify a suitable crossover point between the vessels. 2.5 The procedure is usually done using general anaesthesia, and with ultrasound guidance. Antegrade arterial access is established through the common femoral artery, and retrograde venous access is established through the tibial vein. Arterial and venous catheters are inserted and advanced to the target artery and vein (most frequently the posterior tibial artery and vein). Once both catheters are positioned with a crossover point, a needle is used to create an arteriovenous fistula. Valvulotomy of the vein is then done, usually from the crossover point to the midfoot. Multiple stents are placed in the vein from the level of the calcaneus to the arteriovenous crossover point, and a crossing stent is inserted to maintain the arteriovenous fistula. This establishes retrograde blood flow down the veins, which become arterialised. 2.6 Arteriography is done at the end of the procedure to visualise blood flow into the deep venous arch. 3 Committee considerations The evidence 3.1 NICE did a rapid review of the published literature on the efficacy and safety of this procedure. This comprised a comprehensive literature search and detailed review of the evidence from 7 sources, which was discussed by the committee. The evidence included 1 single-arm pivotal study, 2 single-arm pilot studies, and 4 case series. It is presented in the summary of key evidence section in the interventional procedures overview. Other relevant literature is in the appendix of the overview. Additional documentation in confidence provided by a company was also considered by the committee. 3.2 The professional experts and the committee considered the key efficacy outcomes to be: improvement in limb perfusion and wound healing, reduction in major amputation, and improvement in quality of life. 3.3 The professional experts
