Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


treatment [8–10]. prevalent countries. This simplified syndromic questionnaire of three symp- toms namely cough, fever and night sweats had been Diagnosed of latent TB infection effectively used to diagnose or rule out TB in a study 1. Tuberculin skin test (TST) Targeted tuberculin test- from South East Asia . ing for LTBI forms a strategic component of TB control identifying high risk population prone for developing TB a. Imaging techniques . Studies have shown that TST-positive patients ben- Adding a chest X-ray or a CT scan to symptom screen- efit more from IPT than those who are TST negative . ing not only increases the detection rate but the cost as Anergy, improper cold chain maintenance can give rise well. The spectrum of radiographic manifestation of pul- to false negative results in HIV . Considering these monary TB is dependent on the relative level of HIV- Organization’s Guidelines Group strongly recommends X-ray (CXR) to full blown miliary TB (Fig. 1). A IPT irrespective of TST for people living with HIV . study to evaluate the utility of initial CXR in the diagnos- 2. TB MPB-64 skin patch test MPB-64 is a specific tic algorithm for symptomatic HIV-infected patients with mycobacterial antigen secreted by M. tuberculosis, M. negative sputum smears, found that basing a diagnosis of bovis and some strains of M. bovis used in this patch. This pulmonary TB on initial CXR leads to over diagnosis of test is simple, non-invasive, does not require a laboratory TB. CXR had a sensitivity and specificity of 72 and 57 %, or highly skilled personnel, unaffected by anergy in HIV- respectively, with positive predictive value of 21 % and infected individuals and becomes positive in 3–4 days negative predictive value of 93 % in diagnosing PTB . after patch application on skin, and induration on skin In addition routine abdominal ultrasonography, followed lasts for a week. In a study in Manila, Philippines the sen- by abdominal CT scan in inconclusive cases, significantly sitivity of the transdermal Patch was 87.8 %, with an effi- increased the detection of abdominal TB in patients with cacy of 92.9 % and a specificity of 100 % . advanced immunodeficiency . 3. IFN-γ release assays (IGRA’s) These in vitro blood assays based on IFN-γ production from sensitized T cells b) Microbiology TB antigens like early secretory antigenic target 6 (ESAT 1. Sputum Smear microscopy The most frequent and
