Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


vitro blood assays based on IFN-γ production from sensitized T cells b) Microbiology TB antigens like early secretory antigenic target 6 (ESAT 1. Sputum Smear microscopy The most frequent and con- 6) and culture filtrate protein 10 (CFP 10), are commer- ventional method of pulmonary TB detection in HIV cially available as QuantiFERON-TB QFT), Enhanced co-infected persons involves examination of at least two QuantiFERON-TB Gold assay and ELISPOT format, sputum specimens, including one early-morning speci- T-SPOT-TB assay] . men, for acid-fast bacilli (AFB) . Though the sen- A study of asymptomatic adults from South Africa, a sitivity of sputum microscopy in HIV infection is low country with a high prevalence of co-infection found that (43–51 %), it has the advantage of being inexpensive, rela- the rates of positive ELISPOT and ELISA results did not tively rapid to perform, and specific in most settings. Flu- vary significantly by HIV status compared to TST . orescence microscopy, light emitting diode microscopy, Due to the requirement of a good laboratory infrastruc- alternative specimen processing methods, such as con- ture and costs, the WHO’s Guidelines Group does not centration, bleach sedimentation and same-day sputum recommend IGRA to screen people living with HIV for collection (front loading) strategies increase the sensitiv- eligibility to receive IPT, as IGRA does not spell out who ity of sputum microscopy from 59 to 93 % in detecting will benefit most from IPT . pulmonary TB in HIV co-infected persons [17–19]. a b c Fig. 1 Varying manifestations of TB in HIV. a Apparently normal CXR. b Caeseating mediastinal adenitis typical of TB. c Miliary TB 2. Culture of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M.Tb) Myco- highly specific with improved sensitivity compared to bacterial culture still remains the gold standard for TB smear microscopy. These techniques can detect specific diagnosis. The inherent weaknesses of smear micros- mutations, thus providing information on drug sensitivity copy to determine viability, drug resistance and species as well. identification has made culture test indispensable. HIV Line probe assays (LPA), endorsed by the WHO in co-infection does not affect the yield of mycobacte- 2008 for molecular detection of drug resistance uses rial culture, but its growth on traditional solid medium a PCR/hybridization technique to distinguish mem- like the Middlebrooks or Lowenstein-Jenson medium is bers of the M.Tb complex and simultaneously identifies rather slow requiring up to 6–8 weeks. Repeated sputum drug-resistant strains by detecting the most common examinations for
