Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


or Lowenstein-Jenson medium is bers of the M.Tb complex and simultaneously identifies rather slow requiring up to 6–8 weeks. Repeated sputum drug-resistant strains by detecting the most common examinations for culture up to three specimens increases single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with resist- the yield by 10–17 % . ance . LPAs are highly sensitive ( 97 %) and specific ≥ With increased sensitivity and reduced delays, auto- ( 99 %) for the detection of rifampicin resistance, alone ≥ mated liquid culture systems have replaced solid cultures, or in combination with isoniazid (sensitivity 90 %; ≥ increasing case detection by 10 % with quicker TB diag- specificity 99 %), on isolates of M. tuberculosis but it ≥ nosis (detecting mycobacterial growth within 1–2 weeks), use is restricted to smear-positive sputum specimens resulting in prompt treatment initiation. Methods cur- only . rently in practice include Mycobacteria Growth Indicator Xpert-MTB rif (GeneXpert) has currently taken Tube (MGIT) 960 [Becton–Dickinson Diagnostic Instru- the center stage, providing results within 2 h, with an ments Systems] using fluorescent sensors, MB/BacT sys- increase in case detection rate of 45 % compared to smear tem (Organon Teknika) using colorimetric sensors, ESP microscopy and can be used in smear negative patients culture system II (Difco Laboratories, USA) using pres- also . It is a TB-specific automated, cartridge-based sure sensors, or redox reagents, such as Alamar blue [20– nucleic acid amplification assay, endorsed by WHO, for 22]. Among HIV-TB co-infected patients, MGIT was the rapid diagnosis of TB as well as early detection of found to be more sensitive than culture and microscopy rifampicin resistance among HIV-infected individuals . Other available techniques include bacteriophage among presumptive TB patients . Xpert—Ultra is an based assays (FASTPlaqueTB), Luciferase reporter phage improved version that has been equated to a liquid cul- based test and Microscopic observation drug suscepti- ture in its ability to detect Tuberculosis with an impro- bility (MODS) assays. The latter is a low cost non-com- vised specificity to detect MT. TB as well as rifampicin mercial method for early detection of micro colonies and resistance even among smear negative patients with HIV drug resistance . where the conventional Xpert—MTB rif has a lesser 3. Molecular techniques Nucleic acid amplification tests yield . Loop-mediated isothermal amplification and (NAAT), are designed to amplify nucleic acid regions spe- Fluorescence in situ hybridization using peptide nucleic cific for M. tuberculosis complex and can be
