Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


yield . Loop-mediated isothermal amplification and (NAAT), are designed to amplify nucleic acid regions spe- Fluorescence in situ hybridization using peptide nucleic cific for M. tuberculosis complex and can be used directly acid probes, are other rapid and simplified molecu- Mycobacterial infection, with high sensitivity and speci- from reluctance on part of policy makers and program ficity . implementers. Getahun et al. suggested IPT be taken 4. Serological diagnosis of tuberculosis Serological over by the HIV intervention programme for an effective tests have no role to play for detecting active TB disease implementation after thorough screening for TB. either pulmonary or extra pulmonary TB, and have been banned by WHO . Patient selection for IPT In 2011, the WHO released simplified guidelines for IPT, Capture ELISA test is available to detect lipoarabinoman- weight loss and/or fever. Similarly, house hold contacts nan (LAM) in urine specimens. Among hospitalized of sputum smear positive pulmonary TB cases, espe- HIV-infected patients with suspected TB in Zimbabwe, cially children, are a good entry point for screening for the sensitivity of LAM was found to be significantly TB and delivery of IPT . A community wide survey higher than that of Sputum smear microscopy, especially among South African mine workers found that majority in advanced HIV with lower CD4 counts . Bedside (approximately 80 %) were eligible for IPT . Due to LAM-guided initiation of ATT for HIV-infected hospi- low specificity of symptom screening, C-reactive protein talized patients with suspected TB was associated with (CRP) that has a higher specificity for active TB has been a reduced 8-week mortality rate in a pragmatic, rand- incorporated into the diagnostic algorithm. A point-of- omized, multi-centric trial in Africa . WHO has now care CRP could facilitate rapid initiation of IPT in HIV recommended the detection of LAM, in urine speci- patients without active TB . mens in immunosuppressed HIV-infected patients as an adjunctive means of rapidly diagnosing active TB disease IPT with antiretroviral therapy (ART) . Mortality within the first 6 months after initiating ART In-spite of all these newer TB diagnostic technologies, has been attributed to TB in most resource-limited set- cion and thorough screening of TB in HIV still plays a IPT is combined with ART. Synergistic protection, with vital role. greater than 50 % reduction in TB rates, was found in patients who received both IPT and ART than protec- Preventive therapy for TB in
