Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


Synergistic protection, with vital role. greater than 50 % reduction in TB rates, was found in patients who received both IPT and ART than protec- Preventive therapy for TB in HIV infection tion afforded by either treatment alone . How- As the risk of TB developing in HIV infected individu- ever, empirical TB treatment in situations where it is als is 5–10 % every year, current WHO guidelines recom- difficult to diagnose subclinical TB like advanced HIV mend screening of all HIV-infected individuals for TB disease may not be of much benefit in reducing mortal- (intensified case finding), and if found to be un-infected, ity . receive isoniazid preventive therapy (IPT) for a 6 months, irrespective of TST status . Cost‑effectiveness of IPT Various randomized controlled clinical trials on differ- A randomized trial of HIV infected adults from ent durations and multiple drug regimens have yielded India showed that IPT, 6EH increased life expec- varying results (Table 1). tancy by 0.8 months incurring $100 per individual A Cochrane systematic review of 12 trials, published while 36 months of INH extended life expectancy by in 2010 among 8578 patients demonstrated that IPT 0.2 months with an additional per person cost of $55 . reduced the risk of active TB by 64 % among TST posi- In addition, antepartum IPT for HIV-infected women, tive HIV-infected participants, but only by 14 % among irrespective of CD4 count and TST status, was shown to TST negative individuals . The key message from the have greater health benefits and more cost-effective than review was that efficacy was similar regardless of drug no IPT or TST-driven IPT in a study from India . . CDC also recommended a 12-weekly regimen of ers to screen HIV-infected adults with positive TST and INH and rifapentine given as DOT as an equal alternative providing IPT to those with latent TB infection was cost- to 9-months of daily self-supervised INH for treating LTBI effective relative to the Brazilian GDP per capita . in otherwise healthy patients aged 12 years and advised Similarly, the trial from United States using 12-dose of ≥ against use of rifampicin and pyrazinamide for 2 months weekly rifapentine plus isoniazid administered as directly as prophylaxis . Despite evidences in favour of observed treatment, also proved to be a cost-effective preventive therapy, adoption of TB preventive therapy in alternative to 9 months of daily self-administered iso- difficulty
