Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


yliad gm 003 PLHIV who have positive TST with 36-month IPT was HAART. Non-rifampicin regimens in HIV have been more cost effective for reducing both TB and death com- associated with inferior outcomes coupled with longer pared with providing IPT without a TST, providing only duration of therapy . The addition of quinolones 6-month IPT, or expanding ART eligibility without IPT in the intensive phase does not increase cure rate any . further . Interestingly, the sputum conversion rate is faster in HIV-PTB coinfection with effective ATT . Drug resistance and IPT Studies comparing TB treatment outcomes between A systematic review, assessing the effect of IPT on the HIV infected and uninfected individuals have obviously risk of INH resistant TB, reported that IPT increases the shown better results in the latter group . risk of INH resistance by 1.45 times, whilst it was not sig- Empirical ATT even in advanced HIV has no definitive nificant (Relative risk 1.45; 95 % confidence interval 0.85– role to play. The A5274 study clearly demonstrated that 2.47) . Though the study had a small sample size and even in a high TB burden population of 1368 participants analysis was restricted by incomplete testing of isolates, with advanced HIV (CD4 < 50 cells/mm3), there was no the relative risk showed a minimal increase in INH resist- benefit of empiric TB therapy over IPT when mortality patients in Botswana, India and South Africa with more defined cohorts did not show any increased risk of INH Duration of TB therapy resistance amongst patients given IPT [53–56]. TB treatment duration is not influenced or confounded by HIV infection currently being 6 months for Pulmo- Summary nary and extended in severe forms of extra pulmonary Latent TB is still a difficult diagnosis to make in the wake TB like bone and neurological TB. Centre for Disease of HIV coinfection. Advances in molecular technology Control, Atlanta recommends extension of ATT beyond have partially replaced conventional cultures helping in 6 months in HIV-coinfected pulmonary TB patients in prompt diagnosis of active TB yielding sensitivity results specific instances like delayed sputum conversion or poor at the earliest. TB should be meticulously screened and clinical improvement with/without evidence of dissemi- INH preventive therapy for 6 months or any other equiv- nation, low CD4 count at nadir and presence of cavita- alent regimen should be started for TB-free HIV-infected tion . Swaminathan et al.
