Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


for 6 months or any other equiv- nation, low CD4 count at nadir and presence of cavita- alent regimen should be started for TB-free HIV-infected tion . Swaminathan et al. compared a 6 months individuals irrespective of Tuberculin Skin Testing. There standard intermittent therapy with a 9 months regimen is a need to update the knowledge and awareness of INH (an extended continuation phase of 3 months) in the pre- icy makers for rapid implementation and reap the ben- and found that the favourable outcomes, failures at the efits as it can be easily coupled and monitored with ART end of treatment, adverse events and mortality (during initiation. treatment and follow-up of 24 months) to TB were simi- lar. However, there was a significant reduction in bacteri- Treatment for HIV‑associated pulmonary TB ologically confirmed recurrences when a longer regimen ATT drugs to be used was used. The meta-analysis by Menzies et al. dem- Management of pulmonary TB in HIV demands meticu- onstrated that extended treatment beyond 6 months (to lous monitoring as it is complicated by smear negativity 8 months) did not appreciably increase the efficacy fur- and atypical presentation, emergence of drug resistance, ther, justifying the current duration of 6 months. The Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, drug– same meta-analysis found only a single study having a drug interaction and increased pill burden . The higher risk of relapse with extensive cavitary disease Standards of TB care in India (STCI) recommend a four demanding 8 months treatment. Hence, the authors, drug regimen consisting of Isoniazid (INH), rifampicin, concluded that high risk identification would not be easy pyrazinamide and ethambutol given during in the inten- in the public health perspective that makes generalized sive phase of 2 months followed by INH and rifampicin extension of regimen in all cases unnecessary . with/without ethambutol (optional) in the next 4 months for treatment naive patients along with high dose pyri- Dosing schedule doxine and cotrimaxazole in HIV-TB coinfection . The legacy of intermittent regimens in India dates back HIV infection favours mycobacteremia and tissue inva- to 1964 when Tuberculosis Research Centre used strep- sion resulting in abundance of intracellular and intermit- tomycin and INH administered twice weekly, yielding tently dividing bacilli, making rifampicin indispensable a cure rate of 94 % and a relapse rate of 8 % . The in HIV associated TB . This is despite therapeutic popular attributes of intermittent regimens
