Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


indispensable a cure rate of 94 % and a relapse rate of 8 % . The in HIV associated TB . This is despite therapeutic popular attributes of intermittent regimens were opera- interactions with other concomitant medications notably tional feasibility, lesser cost, fewer side effects and ease of supervision. The scientific basis for intermittent usage rifamycin resistance (ARR) is the emergence of resist- of ATT is based on post antibiotic effect of ATT or lag ance (defined as MIC > 128 µg/ml) to rifamycin among period . Mycobacterium undergoes a lag phase in its patients whose pretreatment isolates were sensitive. ARR growth pattern due to the influence of the post antibiotic is a rarity in HIV seronegative individuals with PTB. In a effect, when bacilli fail to grow for a period of a few days cohort of 1435 HIV sero-negative patients with drug sus- even after removal of the exposed drug i.e. ATT . ceptible PTB enrolled in various trials at the Tuberculo- However, newer hypotheses challenge this approach. It sis Research Centre, Chennai, only 4 patients developed has been postulated that the ratio of peak concentration rifampicin resistance irrespective of the dosing schedule to minimum inhibitory concentration better correlates . with the post antibiotic effect and contributes to sup- On the contrary, ARR in the HIV co-infected had pression of resistance than lag phase. The authors further been reported with all types of rifamycin regimens used hypothesized that asynchrony between the metabolism intermittently, be it once weekly rifapentine , twice of these intermittently growing bacilli and the day of drug weekly rifabutin or thrice weekly rifampicin . administration could facilitate emergence of drug resist- Advanced stage of HIV, absence of HAART, extensive ant mutants . and/or disseminated TB, initial H-resistance, and subop- Swaminathan et al. study showed a higher inci- timal drug concentrations due to malabsorption are con- dence of acquired rifampicin resistance (ARR) among tributing factors for ARR. Increased tissue bacillary load failures, using thrice weekly rifampicin in HIV-PTB, in HIV, coupled with defective clearance attributed to which was unaltered by the duration of the regimen subdued immune apparatus leads to selection of genomic used. Interestingly, the meta-analysis by Menzies et al. mutants resistant to rifampicin, which is much more pro- did not find intermittent ATT dosing to be a cause nounced in the face of baseline INH resistance [80–83]. of poorer outcomes unless the frequency of dosing
