Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


much more pro- did not find intermittent ATT dosing to be a cause nounced in the face of baseline INH resistance [80–83]. of poorer outcomes unless the frequency of dosing went The study by Narendran et al. showed that HIV and down to below thrice a week, but had only 2 % of patient INH resistance at baseline were significant risk factors in the meta-analysis being co-infected. However, the associated with ARR and HAART only reduced the fre- meta-analysis by Faiz khan et al. showed that the use of quency but did not offset the trend. The NCT 00933790 intermittent regimen in HIV, especially in the intensive trial evaluating the incidence of failures and ARR among phase, increased the risk of failures, relapses and emer- co-infected with different dosing schedules of ATT and gence of drug resistance which further intensifies in the timely HAART showed that ARR occurred only with wake of baseline H-resistance . The study by Li et al. intermittent dosing . showed that a daily intensive phase of ATT fol- lowed by an intermittent continuation phase served as Recurrences a useful alternative to a fully daily regimen. The updated TB recurrences can be either due to endogenous re-acti- review by Faiz khan et al. recommended use of a vation or exogenous re-infection, the relative proportions daily regimen throughout and extension of TB regimen depending on the background incidence of TB, level of to 8 months, but suggested further evaluation of data to immune suppression, length of rifampicin-containing make categorical conclusions. Recently, there has been a ATT and adherence to treatment . The propor- paradigm shift in approach to TB treatment among HIV tion of recurrences due to re-infection is more frequent in India, with the STCI recommending daily regimen for in HIV positive individuals especially in countries with all HIV co-infected patients with ethambutol reinforced a higher TB burden than HIV-seronegative individuals in the continuation phase (2EHRZ7/4HRE7) . The with TB who have a true relapse . only randomized trial of head to head comparison of daily vs thrice weekly ATT regimen in HIV patients with Persistence of smear positivity in HIV—are they true newly diagnosed rifampicin sensitive pulmonary TB, failures? started on timely ART, showed a higher cure rate with The decision making based on sputum smears alone can daily compared to thrice weekly ATT (90 vs 76 %) but at often be misleading and one
