Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


higher cure rate with The decision making based on sputum smears alone can daily compared to thrice weekly ATT (90 vs 76 %) but at often be misleading and one such situation is the phe- the expense of higher incidence of hepatoxicity . nomenon of persistent sputum positivity despite regular treatment. A practical approach requires segregation of Acquired rifamycin resistance (ARR)—a unique phenomenon cases into patients with clinical improvement but smear complicating HIV‑associated pulmonary TB positive or those who are truly failing therapy with per- The greater percentage of persistors and bacillary sistence/recrudescence of clinical symptoms or both cur- mutants in an immunocompromised environment (of rently the national programme in many countries has HIV coinfection) facilitates and favours emergence of scaled up to detect early drug resistance using line probe drug resistance to ATT notably rifampicin . Acquired assay and Xpert-MTB Rif at the start of TB treatment that can simplify the problem . Causes of true failures enrolment shortly after being suspended temporarily in HIV associated TB include emergence of ATT drug . A recent model had been developed that could pre- resistance, virological failure to ART, immunological dis- dict efficacy of new regimens of varying durations, taking cordance (lower CD4 with undetectable viral load) and into account culture positive rate at 2 months and could malabsorption of drugs leading to cryptic non-adherence spell out the recurrence rates to help investigators formu- . All of them may influence smear and cul- late shorter regimens with better efficacy . ture conversion with the risk of subsequent failures or recurrences and transmission. Mal-absorption of ATT Summary drugs may cause persistence of symptoms with delayed A standard four drug rifampicin containing regimen clearance of organisms, providing a favourable nidus for given daily for 6 months is still the ideal regimen for emergence of drug resistant mutants [81–83]. pulmonary TB in HIV despite frantic efforts globally to The second group of apparent failures comprises of shorten TB treatment. Ethambutol can be added in the patients with clinical improvement but still have spu- continuation phase. Empirical Antituberculosis therapy tum smears positive for AFB or have apparent deterio- has no role to play. Acquired rifamycin resistance is a ration. The differential diagnosis of the latter includes unique complication in HIV-TB. Patients failing therapy IRIS , transient resistance or “bacillary escape” should not only be evaluate for ATT resistance but also and non-tuberculous mycobacteria mimicking TB
