Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


includes unique complication in HIV-TB. Patients failing therapy IRIS , transient resistance or “bacillary escape” should not only be evaluate for ATT resistance but also and non-tuberculous mycobacteria mimicking TB . efforts taken to rule out virological failure, malabsorp- Atypical mycobacteria including M. avium intracellu- tion and screened simultaneously for non-tuberculous lare, M. kansasi, M. fortitium have been isolated more mycobacteria. frequently in advanced stages of HIV disease when the CD4 is <100 cells/mm3 . Nocardiosis may be misdi- Multidrug‑resistant (MDR) and extensively drug‑resistant (XDR) tuberculosis agnosed as TB due to its close resemblance to the latter both microscopically as well as clinically . Globally in 2014, an estimated 480,000 people devel- oped multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) with an esti- Shortening TB treatment—a myth or a reality? mated 39.5 % deaths and 9.7 % harboring extensively Whether a shorter TB regimen can work in the face of drug resistant TB (XDR-TB) . India, China and Russia HIV coinfection still remains a mystery. The RIFAQUIN contribute about 60 % of global burden. While MDR-TB trial tested a combination of moxifloxacin replacing appears not to cause infection or disease more readily Isoniazid in the intensive phase along with rifampicin, than drug susceptible TB in the HIV infected population, pyrazinamide and ethambutol given daily in the delayed diagnosis, inadequate initial treatment, and pro- 2 months intensive phase followed by high dose rifapen- longed infectiousness contribute to increased attack rates tine (900/1200) for 2 months twice weekly or 4 months among contacts, leading to high case fatality rates among once weekly with moxifloxacin in the continuation phase patients . and compared to a standard 6 months. The study failed Treatment for drug resistant-TB consists of at least to demonstrate non-inferiority of the 4 months regi- 4–5 effective drugs. This includes a fluoroquinolone, a men over the standard 6 months regimen. However, the second line injectable agent (capreomycin, kanamycin or 6 months regimen administered once weekly during the amikacin) and at least 2 agents from the remaining sec- continuation phase showed comparable efficacy with bet- ond line anti-TB drug classes [cycloserine, thionamides ter compliance and feasibility of implementation . (ethionamide or prothionamide), linezolid, clofazimine] An important limitation in this study was that it enrolled along with add on drugs like pyrazinamide, ethambu- only a quarter of HIV patients, with a relatively higher tol, high dose INH, bedaquiline, delamanid, Amoxycillin level of CD4 (above 200 cells/mm3) that
