Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


add on drugs like pyrazinamide, ethambu- only a quarter of HIV patients, with a relatively higher tol, high dose INH, bedaquiline, delamanid, Amoxycillin level of CD4 (above 200 cells/mm3) that limited its gen- clavulanate, para-amino salicylic acid selected prefer- eralisability to advanced stages of HIV. The OFLOTUB entially in the order described above . The intensive study, that used gatifloxacin replacing ethambutol, also phase can be up to 8 months with a continuation phase could not prove the 4 months regimen to be non-inferior without injectable up to 20 months depending on the to the 6 months regimen. These findings were more evi- therapeutic response. WHO had also come out with a dent and obvious in the South African site which had half shortened 9–12 month regimen based on the findings of their recruited patients being co-infected with HIV conducted by the International Union against Tubercu- . A regimen of PA_824 along with moxifloxacin and losis and Lung Diseases and Medical Research Council, pyrazinamide, the STAND trial was being evaluated as United Kingdom, that consisted of moxifloxacin, clofa- a non-rifampicin, non-INH alternative that could prove zimine, prothionamide and pyrazinamide for 9 months useful in drug sensitive and MDR-TB, without signifi- reinforced with kanamycin and INH high dose in the first cant drug interaction with ART. The study would resume 4–5 months of intensive phase. This regimen, however, is approved for use in second line ATT naïve patients Newer TB drugs in the pipeline (<1 month of treatment) with DST pattern showing sen- Bedaquiline (BDQ), one of the newer drugs condition- sitivity to both quinolone and second line aminoglycoside ally approved by the FDA recently, has been a useful form of TB or pregnancy complicating TB . choice is limited. It is a diarylquinoline derivative that Evidence for this regimen originated from the Bang- inhibits the mycobacterial ATP synthetase . It inhib- ladesh observational cohort study by Van Deun among its both actively replicating and non-replicating myco- MDR-TB patients which showed a relapse free cure rate bacteria with no cross resistance to any of the first line of 84.5 % among 515 patients, but in a virtually HIV-free drugs and quinolones. It takes 3–5 days for perception population . The same regimen, tested in the fran- of its bactericidal effect and has an extremely long half- cophone African countries, among 408 patients (that life of 4–5 months and has to be
