Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


regimen, tested in the fran- of its bactericidal effect and has an extremely long half- cophone African countries, among 408 patients (that life of 4–5 months and has to be taken along with food. included HIV positive 22 %) showed a relapse free It is administered 400 mg daily for the first 2 weeks fol- − survival rate of 82.1 %. Although treatment success rates lowed by 200 mg thrice weekly up to a total of 24 weeks. did not differ by HIV status among those who survived, CYP3A4 is the major cytochrome isoenzyme that metab- the death rate was higher among HIV co-infected 18 % olizes bedaquiline to M2, that is mainly removed in the died, compared to 5 % in HIV-seronegative patients stools, with only 1–4 % excreted in urine . Drug- . drug interactions occur with CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., Prognosis of MDR-TB in HIV continues to be grave rifampicin reduced bedaquiline exposure by approxi- with a death rate of over 50 % once again highlighting mately 50 %, obviating co-administration). The most fre- the ardent need to reconstitute the fallen immunity by quent suspected adverse reactions (>20.0 % of patients) timely ART initiation . Two additional factors during treatment with bedaquiline in the controlled tri- which hinder TB control among drug resistant cases als (C208 stages 1 and 2) were nausea (35.3 %), arthral- include nosocomial transmission and increased inci- gia (29.4 %), headache (23.5 %), hyperuricemia (22.5 %), dence of drug toxicity with frequent drug interruptions and vomiting (20.6 %) . The magnitude of QTcF pro- that could worsen the prognosis . Both the longation, one of the potential side effects of BDQ was conditions can lead to amplification of drug resistance greater in patients treated concomitantly with clofazi- and need to be addressed urgently. Stringent airborne mine but none of them ever developed torsade de pointes infection control measures need to be in place as an . One novel way that is being evaluated in preclini- effective strategy and overcrowding in hospitals mini- cal studies to counteract the effect of Bedaquiline causing mized . One study, surprisingly, reported a toxic- QTC prolongation is by adding verapamil . Delama- ity of only 7 % among 2000 patients in a study in South nid (OPC67687) 100 mg, has also entered phase IIb and Africa elucidating the fact that it is comparable to HIV III trials. Follow up
