Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


patients in a study in South nid (OPC67687) 100 mg, has also entered phase IIb and Africa elucidating the fact that it is comparable to HIV III trials. Follow up data from trial 204 which enrolled seronegative group . 481 MDR-TB patients showed a 74.5 % favourable XDR-TB or extensively drug resistant defined as MDR- response among patients using delamanid for 6 months TB (resistance to INH and rifampicin) plus resistance to or more, compared to 55 % with use of delamanid for less any fluoroquinolone and one of the second line anti-TB than 2 months . PA-824, a nitroimidazole (along injectable agents (kanamycin, amikacin or capreomycin) with moxifloxacin and pyrazinamide) proved efficacious constitutes a formidable medical challenge. Although and safe in the phase II b study showing a greater bacte- the absence of rifampicin brings down the occurrence of ricidal activity compared to standard ATT and is used in drug–drug interactions significantly, therapy for XDR-TB the STAND trial . is confounded by other adverse reactions like QTC pro- longation, anemia, psychiatric effects, nephrotoxicity and Newer TB drugs and ART and drug–drug interactions gastrointestinal intolerance in addition to increased pill and therapeutic implications burden . Treatment options are extremely limited Bedaquiline concentration is increased with co-admin- and challenging with higher frequencies of adverse events istered lopinavir/ritonavir by 22 % due to reduced clear- and death . In a recent study on long term follow-up ance, while BDQ concentration is reduced by 50 % with of XDR-TB patients from South Africa, independent pre- efavirenz and these combinations are better avoided. dictors of probability of net sputum culture conversion Nevirapine has no interaction with BDQ and can be given were no previous history of multidrug-resistant tubercu- safely . Delamanid is expected not to have any clini- losis (p 0.0007), use of clofazamine (p 0.0069) with cally significant interaction with EFV, NVP or boosted = = survival depending on culture conversion (p < 0.0001), PI and can be used concomitantly, as it neither induces treatment with clofazamine (p 0.021) and ART in HIV nor inhibits the CYP 450 system. PA-824 concentrations = (p 0.003) . are reduced by both EFV and lopinavir/ritonavir being = 35 and 17 % respectively . Newer derivatives of Lin- , a polymorphism in the CYP2B6 gene (G–T muta- ezolid in the pipeline are sutezolid, AZD 5487, radezolid tion) resulted in significantly higher blood levels of the and tedizolid,
