Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


Lin- , a polymorphism in the CYP2B6 gene (G–T muta- ezolid in the pipeline are sutezolid, AZD 5487, radezolid tion) resulted in significantly higher blood levels of the and tedizolid, which are devoid of the myelosuppressive drug resulting in increased risk of neuro-psychiatric tox- side effects of the linezolid, their predecessor . icity . Trials have shown lower dose of EFZ (400 mg) to be therapeutically useful, with effective virological Antiretroviral treatment (ART) in HIV‑PTB suppression but with a lesser toxicity (39 vs 48 %) at the The influence of HIV and ART on TB outcomes same time compared to the standard 600 mg . Use of In the pre-HAART era, a number of studies have shown nevirapine (available as generic fixed-drug combination) considerably lower cure rates, higher mortality and is not recommended routinely with rifampicin, unless recurrence rates of TB after standard ATT in HIV co- there is a contraindication to efavirenz like pregnancy or infected patients compared to sero-negative individuals psychiatric illness. However, nevirapine initiation should [115–117]. The study in Spain showed an efficacy of 43 % be without a “lead in” period, starting with 200 mg twice in HIV infected Vs 70 % in the HIV negative TB . daily to maximize efficacy in the presence of rifampicin Nevertheless, the study by Chaisson et al. did not reveal . Caution needs to be exercised in patients with the outcomes to be different based on HIV status (87 % in a higher CD4 (>400 in males and above 250 in females) the uninfected vs 81 % among co-infected). The median who are prone for fulminant hepatitis while using this CD4 count of the study cohort was 475 cells/mm3 sug- strategy . Triple NRTI regimens containing abacavir gesting that preservation of adequate immunity could can be used alternatively in patients negative for HLA potentially improve TB outcomes in HIV emphasizing B57:01, but virological suppression is inferior especially the need for early ART initiation . Treatment of when the viral load is high . A quadruple NRTI regi- TB alone in HIV-TB co-infected patients did not sub- men including tenofovir has been found to be as effective stantially increase CD4 count nor reduced the viral load as EFV based regimen in trials of a smaller number . . This had prompted both the WHO and the Rifabutin offers greater flexibility than rifampicin and the National AIDS Control Organisation, (NACO) India
