Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


in trials of a smaller number . . This had prompted both the WHO and the Rifabutin offers greater flexibility than rifampicin and the National AIDS Control Organisation, (NACO) India modifications that are required in concomitant therapy is to recommend ART initiation irrespective of CD4 depicted in Table 2. in HIV-TB infection. The updated systematic review Recently discovered drugs in the pipeline include teno- on TB treatment in HIV by Faiz khan et al. of which fovir alafenamide , a prodrug of tenofovir, that the authors had also contributed, showed substantial gets converted at the site of lymphoid involvement and improvement in TB treatment outcomes, reduction in liver making it more potent, with greater tissue infiltra- relapse rates, mortality and acquisition of drug resist- tion at a dosage ten times less than the conventional ance with early ART initiation . Timely ART initia- tenofovir and is currently evaluated in phase III trials in tion undoubtedly improved TB outcomes. Comparing a fixed dose combination. There was significant improve- HIV-TB studies conducted at NIRT in the pre- and post- ment in estimated glomerular filtration rate, bone density ART era, the TB outcomes were significantly better with and reduced proteinuria compared to conventional teno- HAART co-administration (favourable response of 93 vs. fovir disoproxil fumarate . Dolutegravir has been 83 %) with a reduction in all-cause mortality from 17 to shown to have a superior tolerability compared to daru- 5 % . Pulmonary TB patients initiating ART in navir in the Flamingo study . The dosage of dolute- the intensive phase had a better TB outcome (adjusted gravir has to be doubled if concomitantly administered odds ratio 1.83 (95 % CI 1.29–2.60) compared those not with rifampicin to 50 mg BD instead of the OD dosage on ART from a study from Malawi . A study from (given with rifabutin) especially if given along with EFV Thailand also reflected the same trends with 43 % mor- . Alternatively, dolutegravir 50 mg BD can also be tality in the absence of ART compared to 7 % when co- combined with lamivudine and abacavir . administered with ART . When to start ART after ATT initiation The ideal ART regimen for TB co‑infected patients and newer Evidences from the START and the TEMPRANO options available study has made WHO recommend early initiation Tenofovir, emtricitabine/lamivudine along with efavirenz of ART, even in asymptomatic HIV individuals irrespec- as
