Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


weeks of starting ATT on syndrome (TB-IRIS) similar principles . Tuberculosis immune reconstitution inflammatory syn- Adverse reactions occur more often among HIV- drome (TB-IRIS) is the paradoxical worsening of symp- infected patients with TB on concurrent medication toms and signs of TB after starting ART (rarely with ATT than among TB without HIV (serious ADR—27 vs 13 %), itself), despite a favorable immunological recovery and occurring mostly in the first 2 months of treatment [143, effective virological suppression . Incidence ranges 144]. Hepatoxicity is common due to shared metabolic from 8–43 % . The frequency and severity of IRIS pathways of anti-TB and antiretroviral drugs, alcohol- depends on the degree of CD4 lymphocytopenia at nadir, ism, co-infection with Hepatitis B and C, IRIS hepati- the presence of other opportunistic infections and also tis and obstruction by nodes at the porta hepatitis all the strategic location of the lesion. Figure 2 shows a pul- predispose to liver injury . Most cases present with monary TB patient with HIV who presented with IRIS transaminitis which resolves when drugs are withheld. In lesions in the brain after initiating ART . TB- drug sensitive TB, non-hepatotoxic drugs like streptomy- IRIS is of two types (1) Paradoxical TB-IRIS that occurs cin, ethambutol and ofloxacin should be substituted for in HIV-TB co-infected patients started on ATT and sub- TB treatment till liver functions return to normal, when sequently started on ART. Paradoxical IRIS is relatively all drugs can be re-introduced. Other adverse reactions easy to diagnose because of its biphasic pattern of initial include cutaneous and gastrointestinal symptoms and improvement with ATT followed by a latter phase “para- peripheral neuropathy which can occasionally be disa- doxical” deterioration after ART initiation. (2) Unmask- bling . Lactic Acidosis can present in various ways ing TB-IRIS or ANTIRETROVIRAL therapy (ART) and needs periodic estimation . associated TB occurs in an asymptomatic individual Isolated hyperbilirubinemia is very common with use without a prior diagnosis of TB who starts developing of atazanavir but is more of a cosmetic disfigurement that symptoms with ART initiation. This could either be sub- tion may be useful in management of ATV-related HBR in selected patients . Predictors of IRIS—risk factors The most consistent risk factors are very low levels of Summary CD4 cell count, CD4/CD8 ratio, hemoglobin, weight, The ideal co-administered ART regimen with ATT is a presence of disseminated disease, shorter ATT-ART single pill
