Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


are very low levels of Summary CD4 cell count, CD4/CD8 ratio, hemoglobin, weight, The ideal co-administered ART regimen with ATT is a presence of disseminated disease, shorter ATT-ART single pill of tenofovir (300 mg) along with emtricitabine/ time interval, extra pulmonary foci and other opportun- lamivudine (300 mg) and efavirenz (600 mg) initiated istic infections at the time of ART initiation [150–152]. between 2 and 12 weeks after ATT initiation, provided Interleukin-6 and CRP were found to be reliable predic- the patients’ CD4 cell count is above 50 cells/mm3 with tors of IRIS in a pure cohort of culture positive TB in pulsion). However, among patients with a CD4 of less Evaluation of predictors from the CADRIS trial showed than or equal to 50 cells/mm, immediate initiation of that baseline levels of vitamin D and higher D-dimer, Before ATT A(cid:23)er ATT and ART during IRIS episode A(cid:23)er therapy for IRIS Fig. 2 Pontine abscess as a manifestation of paradoxical TB-IRIS in a patients with HIV (& hemiparesis) Interferon gamma (IFN-γ), and sCD14 were indepen- to be performed. Radiological deterioration in Chest dently associated with risk of IRIS . TNFA-308*2 skiagram is a usual accompaniment in almost all cases and IL-6174G gene polymorphisms have been implicated of IRIS . In some instances, increase in CD4 cell in TB-IRIS causation . count may not be evident . A decline of viral load less than 0.5 log10 copies/ml compared to baseline has a Pathogenesis of TB-IRIS high negative predictive value in ruling out IRIS and is a Functional restoration of immunocompetent cells (CD4) mandatory criterion to differentiate it from HIV disease causing a cytokine outburst with an overriding Th1 over progression . The International network for the Th2 response, apart from increase in number and their study of HIV associated IRIS (INSHI) criteria can be used redistribution to the site of the lesion, is the primary for diagnosing unmasking IRIS and paradoxical IRIS mechanism of IRIS causation . The majority of para- . Lipoarabinomannan (LAM) detection serves as a doxical IRIS cases occurs within the first 3 months after useful index of systemic antigen burden and has proved starting ART . The T-regulatory cells or committed to be useful as a predictive marker . suppressors of the immune system are normally restored When IRIS occurs at an extrapulmonary location, post ART but are functionally defective, tilting the tide appropriate investigation can be performed
