Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


. suppressors of the immune system are normally restored When IRIS occurs at an extrapulmonary location, post ART but are functionally defective, tilting the tide appropriate investigation can be performed and tissue towards an inflammatory reaction . Recently, MMP- specimen obtained wherever possible, and sent for bac- 7, a tissue matrix metallo-proteinase, has also been impli- teriological staining and culture in addition to routine cated in TB-IRIS . histopathology. A negative culture that succeeds a pre- existing or baseline positive culture (that was sensitive Clinical features of TB IRIS to specific drug therapy) confirms the diagnosis of IRIS Fever with rigor or chills (resembling malaria) is the com- straightaway. However, this criteria of culture negativity monest and consistent symptom of TB-IRIS, with lymph cannot be applied for diagnosing unmasking IRIS or in node enlargement being the commonest manifestation paradoxical IRIS when the ATT-IRIS interval is too short. . Symptoms vary in severity from localized super- Hypercalcemia is a unique accompaniment of TB-IRIS, ficial lymphadenopathy and subcutaneous abscesses to attributed to the calcium deposition through increased severe forms like adult respiratory distress syndrome, secretions of 1.25 dihydoxy cholecalciferol by activated meningitis, enlarging space occupying lesions like tuber- macrophages and CD4 T cells . culomas and viscus perforation, which can end fatally . Compressive features due to lymphadenopa- Differential diagnosis of IRIS thy include stridor due to tracheal narrowing and supe- Drug resistant TB is the closest mimic that requires to be rior vena caval (SVC) obstruction . Patients with ruled out before steroids are administered as they form abdominal TB may present with pain and diarrhea. Other the cornerstone of IRIS therapy currently . The abdominal manifestations include hepatosplenomegaly, phenomenon of “fall and rise” exhibited by the acid fast psoas abscesses, splenic micro abscesses, splenic rupture, bacilli (described by Toman) typically mimics the tempo- epididymo-orchitis, uretric compression, and acute renal ral sequence of paradoxical IRIS . Steroid administra- failure . Osteomyelitis, sub-cutaneous abscesses tion in the face of MDR-TB could spell disaster, ending and thromboembolic episodes have been reported . fatally. Zidovudine induced anemia also mimics IRIS Radiological worsening in pulmonary TB without symp- presenting with fever, rigor that settles after appropri- toms or “cryptic IRIS” has been reported among TB ate modification of ART . Late onset IRIS (occurring patients alone after starting ATT in the pre HIV era also after 3 months of ART initiation) is not rare but
