Gopalan et al. AIDS Res Ther (2016) 13:34 AIDS Research and Therapy
KEYWORDS: hiv, tuberculosis, patients, treatment, therapy, art, drug, dis, study, iris, months, immune, att, rifampicin, regimen


ate modification of ART . Late onset IRIS (occurring patients alone after starting ATT in the pre HIV era also after 3 months of ART initiation) is not rare but re-esti- . mation of viral load is compulsory in such patients, to rule out ART failure and HIV progression . Lym- Diagnosis of IRIS phoma of the Non-Hodgkins type which could occur or It is important for physicians to remember that the onset co-exist with TB in HIV may flare up after ART and ster- of this syndrome is linked temporally to ART initia- oid administration could confuse the hispathology find- tion, ART substitution (from I line to II line suppressing ings . viremia) and ART interruption followed by re-initiation . A strong suspicion and awareness of IRIS supple- Management mented by the immunological tools of CD4 T cell count Preventive strategy and viral load, after ruling out toxicity and drug resist- Intensive screening for TB and other opportunistic infec- ance, will help clinch the diagnosis . Initial work up tions along with INH and cotrimaxozole prophylaxis of febrile episodes for infections endemic to a particular reduces IRIS incidence [149, 167–169]. ART initiation place like malaria, urinary tract infection, typhoid needs before CD4 goes down considerably could protect against opportunistic infections and subsequent IRIS . If a Research in Tuberculosis Chennai, the medical officers of TB sanatorium Tam- baram, Chest physicians and ART medical officers of Rajiv Gandhi Government patient with TB has a CD4 > 50 cells/mm3, the initiation of ART can be delayed up to 8 weeks with close monitor- NIRT for their support and [PATIENT]. Santhanakumar for his excellent secretarial ing that reduces toxicity and IRIS but does not compro- assistance. mise on survival . Competing interests The authors declare that they have no competing interests. Treatment Consent for publication Anti-inflammatory drugs especially steroids form the Consent has been obtained from the patients whose images have been backbone therapy for TB-IRIS, even though non-steroidal displayed. anti-inflammatory agents could prove to be a useful initial Ethics approval and consent to participate therapy for milder and localized cases of IRIS . Not applicable as it is review of published literature and does not deal with A dose of 0.5–2 mg/kg body weight is usually used and individual patient or data. tapered in a 4–8 weeks period depending on the site and Received: 4 July 2016 Accepted: 16 September 2016
