Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


ABSTRACT Puberty is a biological process that represents the development of secondary sexual characteristics and attainment of reproductive capacity, influenced by genetic, metabolic, environmental, ethnic, geographic, and economic factors. Pubertal onset is characterized by the increased kisspeptin and neurokinin B secretion leading to re-emergence of pulsatile gonadotropin releasing hormone signaling from the hypothalamus which stimulates increased pituitary secretion of luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone, which in turn stimulate gonadal sex hormone production. Precocious puberty refers to secondary sexual development occurring earlier than the lower end of normal age and delayed puberty refers to secondary sexual development occurring later than the upper end of normal age for the onset of puberty. These changes may represent a serious underlying condition or signify a common variation of normal for which treatment may not be necessary. Clinical evaluation should include a detailed history and physical examination, including anthropometric measurements, calculation of linear growth velocity, and evaluation of secondary sexual characteristics. This chapter summarizes the physiology of pubertal development, variations in pubertal development, and recent developments regarding human puberty. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Puberty is the process through which reproductive competence is achieved ( 1 ). Physical characteristics associated with this process include the development of secondary sex characteristics, acceleration in linear growth velocity, and the occurrence of menarche in women and spermatogenesis in men. The sex chromosome karyotype of the embryo, XX or XY, determines the trajectory for differentiation of the gonads and development of the internal and external genital structures. This complex process, beginning in utero, depends on neuroendocrine signaling and gonadal components. Ultimately, integrated communication between the reproductive and metabolic systems is critical for timely pubertal development ( 2 ). Pubertal development and neuroendocrine system maturation involve the ontogeny, activity, and interactions of the gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons. The onset of puberty is accompanied by increased kisspeptin and neurokinin B secretion causing the GnRH neurons to secrete GnRH in a pulsatile manner. Increased GnRH secretion stimulates pulsatile pituitary luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) secretion ( 3 ). LH and FSH stimulate gonadal sex steroid secretion which promotes development of secondary sex characteristics and influences hypothalamic-pituitary function via negative feedback inhibition. This chapter summarizes the physiology of pubertal development, variations in pubertal development, and recent developments regarding human puberty. CLINICAL FEATURES OF NORMAL PUBERTAL
