Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


influences hypothalamic-pituitary function via negative feedback inhibition. This chapter summarizes the physiology of pubertal development, variations in pubertal development, and recent developments regarding human puberty. CLINICAL FEATURES OF NORMAL PUBERTAL DEVELOPMENT Children typically demonstrate a predictable sequence of physical changes during pubertal maturation. Within the chronologic age ranges for pubertal development, individual variations regarding age at onset and tempo of pubertal development are expected. In humans, two physiological processes, gonadarche and adrenarche, govern pubertal transition. Gonadarche reflects the reactivation of the hypothalamic GnRH pulse generator which has been quiescent since late infancy. Increasing pulsatile GnRH secretion stimulates pulsatile gonadotropin secretion which, in turn, stimulates the growth and maturation of the gonads and gonadal sex steroid secretion. Increased estrogen secretion promotes breast development, cornification of the vaginal mucosa, and uterine growth in girls. Increased testosterone secretion promotes penile enlargement. The increased HPG axis activity culminates in folliculogenesis, ovulation, and menses in the female and spermatogenesis in the male. In addition to gonadal sex steroid secretion, humans experience adrenarche signifying adrenal pubertal maturation. Adrenarche typically begins prior to the first visible physical manifestation of gonadarche, breast development, or testicular enlargement. Pubarche, the physical manifestation of adrenarche, is characterized by the development of pubic hair, axillary hair, apocrine odor, and acne. Adrenarche indicates increased adrenal cortical zona reticularis activity and is accompanied by increased secretion of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS), dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), androstenedione, and 11-hydroxyandrostenedione ( 4 , 5 ). These so-called “adrenal androgens” are C19 steroids which do not bind directly to the androgen receptor and can be peripherally converted to more potent androgens. Circulating concentrations of two adrenal 11-oxyandrogens, 11-hydroxyandrostenedione and 11-ketotestosterone increase with adrenarche. Whereas 11-hydroxyandrostenedione has minimal androgenic activity, 11-ketotestosterone is almost as potent as testosterone. During adrenarche, 11-ketotestosterone appears to be the major bioactive adrenal C19 steroid and may be responsible for the physical changes associated with pubarche ( 6 ). Gonadarche and adrenarche are dissociated such that the absence of adrenarche does not prevent gonadarche or the attainment of fertility ( 7 ). Curiously, the phenomenon of adrenarche appears to be limited to humans and a few species of non-human primates ( 8 , 9 ). The factors that drive the dynamic changes within a strictly defined zona reticularis within the adrenal cortex, are still poorly defined. How adrenarche and increased adrenal C19 steroids impact brain development during human adolescence is indeterminate ( 10 ). Urinary steroid hormone
