Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


reticularis within the adrenal cortex, are still poorly defined. How adrenarche and increased adrenal C19 steroids impact brain development during human adolescence is indeterminate ( 10 ). Urinary steroid hormone profiling suggest that adrenarche may be a gradual process that likely begins earlier than previously believed ( 11 ). STAGING OF PUBERTY Tanner and colleagues followed the pubertal development of children living in an orphanage in the UK. Their five-stage classification system continues to be commonly utilized for clinical assessments ( 12 , 13 , 14 ). For girls, Tanner staging is used to describe breast and pubic hair development (See Figure 1 ). For boys, Tanner staging is used to describe testicular volume, penile development, and pubic hair development (See Figure 2 ). Tanner and his colleagues also described that the tempo of puberty varies between individuals. Figure 1. Tanner Staging for pubertal development in girls. In girls, breast development is rated from 1 (preadolescent) to 5 (mature), and stage 2 (appearance of the breast bud) marks the onset of pubertal development. Pubic hair stages are rated from 1 (preadolescent, no pubic hair) to 5 (adult), and stage 2. Although pubic hair and genital or breast development are represented as synchronous in the illustration, they do not necessarily track together and should be scored separately. Figure 1 Adapted with permission from Carel JC, Léger J. Clinical practice. Precocious puberty. N Engl J Med. 2008;358( 22 ):2367 and Klein DA, Emerick JE, Sylvester JE, Vogt KS. Disorders of Puberty: An Approach to Diagnosis and Management. Am Fam Physician. 2017 Nov 1;96( 9 ):590-599. PMID: 29094880. Figure 2. Tanner Staging for pubertal development in boys. In boys, genital development is rated from 1 (preadolescent) to 5 (adult); stage 2 marks the onset of pubertal development and is characterized by an enlargement of the scrotum and testis and by a change in the texture and a reddening of the scrotal skin. Pubic hair stages are rated from 1 (preadolescent, no pubic hair) to 5 (adult), and stage 2 marks the onset of pubic hair development.Although pubic hair and genital or breast development are represented as synchronous in the illustration, they do not necessarily track together and should be scored separately. In normal boys, stage 2 pubic hair develops at an average of 12 to 20 months after stage 2 genital development. Figure 2 Adapted with permission from Carel JC, Léger J. Clinical
