Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


boys, stage 2 pubic hair develops at an average of 12 to 20 months after stage 2 genital development. Figure 2 Adapted with permission from Carel JC, Léger J. Clinical practice. Precocious puberty. N Engl J Med. 2008;358( 22 ):2367 and Klein DA, Emerick JE, Sylvester JE, Vogt KS. Disorders of Puberty: An Approach to Diagnosis and Management. Am Fam Physician. 2017 Nov 1;96( 9 ):590-599. PMID: 29094880. Girls The typical first clinical sign of puberty in girls is the appearance of breast tissue with elevation of the breast and papilla; this is considered to be Tanner Stage 2 ( Figure 1 ). Initially, breast development (thelarche) may be unilateral. Many girls complain of mild breast tenderness or discomfort during this stage that subsequently resolves. Tanner stage 3 breast development is considered to be additional enlargement of the breast and areola. During Tanner stage 4, the papilla forms a secondary mound above the breast; this stage is often very rapid. Tanner stage 5 represents mature breast development due to recession of the areola to the contour of the breast. Palpation of the breast is obligatory to differentiate breast tissue from lipomastia. In children with obesity without breast development, a palpable depression beneath the nipple in the center of the areola when examined in the supine position gives the impression of a donut and is referred to as the ‘donut’ sign. Breast ultrasound correlates reasonably well with Tanner staging by palpation and can detect breast development slightly earlier than physical exam ( 15 ). In most instances, breast development is evident before pubic hair development. Typically, the pubertal growth spurt in girls occurs concurrently with the onset of breast development with only 4-6 cm of linear growth occurring after menarche, however this may be variable. The appearance of sexual hair including pubic hair (pubarche) signifies the onset of adrenarche. In girls, Tanner stage 2 pubic hair is characterized by sparse, coarse, lightly pigmented hairs along the labia majora. For Tanner stage 3, pubic hair becomes progressively darker, coarser, and spreads over the mons pubis. For Tanner stage 4, pubic hair continues to extend to become an inverse triangle, with spread to the medial aspects of the thighs being considered Tanner stage 5. With the onset of ovarian estrogen secretion, the vaginal mucosa changes from shiny bright red to pale pink appearance due to cornification of the vaginal mucosa. Increased estrogen secretion
