Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


5. With the onset of ovarian estrogen secretion, the vaginal mucosa changes from shiny bright red to pale pink appearance due to cornification of the vaginal mucosa. Increased estrogen secretion promotes uterine growth and causes physiologic leukorrhea, a thin, white, non-foul-smelling vaginal discharge that typically begins 6 to 12 months before menarche. Menarche occurs, on average, 2 to 2.5 years after the onset of breast development (See figure 3A ). During the first-year post-menarche, menses are usually irregular and anovulatory. These early years are characterized by inconsistent ovulation and varying lengths of follicular and luteal phases. Ultimately, coordinated maturation of the hypothalamic, pituitary, and ovarian components occurs culminating in cyclic monthly ovulation ( 16 ). Although full HPG axis maturation generally occurs over several years, by three years post-menarche, most cycles are between 21-35 days. Figure 3A and 3B. Average ages and sequence of pubertal development. Panel A: girls; Panel B: boys. Boys For boys, increased testicular volume is the first physical finding indicating onset of gonadarche (See Figure 2 and Figure 3B ). Palpation of the testes and use of a Prader orchidometer is essential for accurate assessment. A Prader orchidometer is a collection of 3-D ellipsoids ranging in volume from 1 to 25 mL (See Figure 4 ). During gonadarche, testicular volume increases, and the penis increases in length and diameter. Flaccid penile length can be measured using a straight edge on the dorsal surface from the pubic ramus to the tip of the glans while compressing the suprapubic fat pad and applying gentle traction to stretch to penis. Figure 4. Prader Orchidometer. Increased testicular volume represents Sertoli cell proliferation, differentiation, and eventually, the initiation of spermatogenesis. The onset of puberty is defined as a testicular volume ≥ 4 ml and a testicular length ≥ 2.5 cm. The volume of mature human testis is approximately 20-25 ml. Spermatozoa (spermaturia) can be found in early morning urine samples beginning during genital stage 3 ( 16 ). Nocturnal sperm emissions may also begin around this time. For boys, Tanner stage 2 pubic hair consists of downy hairs at the base of the penis. During pubic hair stage 3, the hair becomes longer, darker, and extends over the junction of the pubic bones. For pubic hair stage 4, the extent of hair has increased, but has not yet achieved the adult male escutcheon with spread to the medial aspects of the
