Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


pubic bones. For pubic hair stage 4, the extent of hair has increased, but has not yet achieved the adult male escutcheon with spread to the medial aspects of the thighs that would be considered Tanner stage 5. Additional features include axillary hair, increased size of the larynx, voice break with deepening of the voice, increased bone mass, and increased muscle strength. Terminal hair develops in androgen-dependent regions on the face and trunk approximately three years after appearance of pubic hair. The distribution and density of beard, chest, abdominal, and back hair varies among individuals. Peak height velocity is both age and sex-dependent. It occurs earlier in girls, between Tanner breast stages 2 and 3, and later in boys, between Tanner testis stages 3 and 4. Approximately 50% of boys experience pubertal gynecomastia ( 17 ). Typically, pubertal gynecomastia is transient and most prominent in mid-puberty when the ratio of circulating estradiol to testosterone concentrations is relatively higher. DISCOVERY OF THE HYPOTHALAMIC-PITUITARY-GONADAL (HPG) AXIS Since ancient times, it was known that castration of animals and humans interfered with development of secondary sex characteristics and fertility ( 14 ). In 1935, Ernst Laquer and colleagues isolated testosterone from several tons of steer testes ( 18 ). Later that year, Adolf Butenandt, Gunter Hanisch, Leopold Ruzicka, and A. Wettstein published the chemical synthesis of testosterone ( 19 , 20 ). After showing that follicular fluid obtained from a sow ovary was able to induce cornification of vaginal mucosa, Edgar Allen and Edward Doisy isolated the active substance, estrone ( 21 ). Donald MacCorquodale, Stanley Thayer, and Edward Doisy isolated estradiol from 8000 pounds of sow ovaries in 1935 ( 22 ). Philip Smith, Bernhard Zondek, Hermann Zondek, H.L. Fevold and colleagues, and Geoffrey Harris established the functional relationships involved in HPG axis function ( 23 , 24 , 25 , 26 ). Roger Guillemin and Andrew Schally engaged in a vigorous competition to identify hypothalamic releasing hormones including GnRH ( 27 , 28 , 29 ). Ernst Knobil and his colleagues identified that pulsatile GnRH secretion was essential for sustained pituitary gonadotropin secretion ( 28 , 30 ). Fred Karsch and Ernst Knobil independently developed the concept of the “GnRH pulse generator” ( 31 ). In the 1970s, Melvin Grumbach and colleagues measured circulating gonadotropin concentrations in the human fetus ( 32 ). Around the same time, Charles Faiman and Jeremy Winter
