Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


( 31 ). In the 1970s, Melvin Grumbach and colleagues measured circulating gonadotropin concentrations in the human fetus ( 32 ). Around the same time, Charles Faiman and Jeremy Winter also reported gonadotropin concentrations in normal and agonadal children ( 33 ). Their collective findings led to recognition of early postnatal HPG axis activity followed by quiescence of the HPG axis during childhood until resumption of GnRH pulse generator activity at the onset of puberty. Ontogeny of GnRH Neurons Reproductive competence depends on the meticulous development of the GnRH neuron system. In the human fetus, GnRH neurons initially develop in the olfactory placode outside the central nervous system. The olfactory placodes invaginate at approximately 39 days of gestation in the human. Based on the appearance of immunoreactive GnRH protein, the GnRH neuron specification occurs between 39-44 days of gestation ( 34 ). The developing GnRH neurons are associated with the embryonic vomeronasal organ. Available data suggest that the GnRH neuron precursors are distinct from those giving rise to the vomeronasal neurons ( 35 ). Subsequently, the GnRH neurons migrate accompanied by olfactory-derived axons, olfactory epithelial sheath cells, and blood vessels towards the cribriform plate (36). Migration of the GnRH neurons seems to pause at the nasal/forebrain junction prior to crossing the cribriform plate (37). During this “pause” phase, multiple tissues, chemokines, growth factors, and neurotransmitters appear to form gradients influencing movement of GnRH neurons. Upon reaching the hypothalamus, the GnRH neurons disperse to their final locations sending projections to the median eminence to release GnRH into the hypophyseal portal vasculature. The precise origin and particular factors responsible for the specification and differentiation of GnRH neuron precursors remain enigmatic. Inaccessibility of developing human GnRH neurons has led to development of alternative approaches to elucidate the history of GnRH neurons. One approach has involved a protocol to generate GnRH neurons from human pluripotent stem cells ( 38 ). With this approach, Yellapragada et al. demonstrated that dose- and time-dependent FGF8 signaling via FGFR1 is indispensable for human GnRH neuron ontogeny ( 39 ). Using a differentiation trajectory analysis approach, DLX family of transcription factors have been reported to promote in vitro human GnRH neuron differentiation ( 40 ). Components of the HPG Axis Gonadotropin-releasing hormone is a decapeptide (pGlu-His-Trp-Ser-Trp-Gly-Leu-Arg-Pro-Gly-NH 2 ) derived from a 92-amino acid precursor, preproGnRH, that was characterized in 1984 ( 41 ). LH and FSH are synthesized in
