Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


Axis Gonadotropin-releasing hormone is a decapeptide (pGlu-His-Trp-Ser-Trp-Gly-Leu-Arg-Pro-Gly-NH 2 ) derived from a 92-amino acid precursor, preproGnRH, that was characterized in 1984 ( 41 ). LH and FSH are synthesized in the same gonadotroph cell located in the anterior pituitary. LH and FSH are glycoproteins consisting of two subunits. The alpha subunits are identical whereas the beta subunits confer hormone specificity. Each GnRH pulse stimulates an LH pulse. During human gestation, human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) drives fetal testicular testosterone secretion in the developing male fetus early during gestation. The pituitary gland begins to secrete gonadotropins with LH and FSH becoming detectable in fetal blood after 14 weeks of gestation ( 42 , 43 ). Initially, pituitary gonadotropin secretion appears to be GnRH-independent with progressive transition to kisspeptin-GnRH regulation of pituitary gonadotropin secretion during the third trimester ( 44 ). Peak gonadotropin concentrations occur around the midpoint of gestation followed by a progressive decline attributed to suppression by placental estrogens ( 45 ). In the male fetus, testicular testosterone secretion is essential for normal development of internal and external male genital structures. Comparatively, the fetal ovary is quiescent. As noted above, GnRH stimulates pituitary LH and FSH secretion. LH and FSH signal through their cognate receptors which are G-protein coupled receptors ( 46 ). GONADS The gonads synthesize sex steroids from cholesterol. In the testis, LH acting through the LH receptor stimulates conversion of cholesterol to testosterone in the Leydig cell. In specific target tissues such as external genital skin and the prostate, testosterone is converted to dihydrotestosterone by the enzyme, 5α-reductase type 2 encoded by the SRD5A2 gene. Testosterone influences pituitary LH secretion through negative feedback either via direct actions or indirectly after conversion to estradiol. FSH acting through the FSH receptor promotes growth of seminiferous tubules and supports sperm development. Growth of the seminiferous tubules and increasing numbers of germ cells accounts for increasing testicular volume during puberty. In females, the two cell-two gonadotropin model applies to ovarian steroidogenesis. LH stimulates the theca cell to synthesize androstenedione which diffuses to the granulosa cell where FSH-stimulated aromatase activity stimulates estradiol synthesis. Estradiol has both negative feedback and positive feedback. Estradiol mediated positive feedback is required to elicit the LH surge responsible for ovulation. Activin and inhibin are heterodimeric glycoproteins secreted by the gonads. Inhibins consist of an alpha subunit and one of two homologous yet distinct beta subunits, βA or βB.
