Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


for ovulation. Activin and inhibin are heterodimeric glycoproteins secreted by the gonads. Inhibins consist of an alpha subunit and one of two homologous yet distinct beta subunits, βA or βB. Inhibin B is composed of an alpha subunit and a βB subunit whereas inhibin A consists of an alpha subunit and a βA subunit. Inhibins are secreted by Sertoli cells in the testes and granulosa cells in the ovary. Inhibin B influences pituitary FSH secretion by negative feedback. In prepubertal boys, inhibin B concentrations reflect Sertoli cell mass and function. After puberty, inhibin B concentrations reflect spermatogenesis ( 47 ). Inhibin B correlates inversely with FSH levels in adult men. Activins are dimers of inhibin β subunits, β A , β B and β C ; the best characterized are activin A (β A β A ) and activin B (β B β B ). Activin A stimulates pituitary FSH secretion( 48 , 49 ). Follistatin is a monomeric protein that modulates activin activity and can irreversibly inhibit activin activity. Leydig cells secrete insulin-like peptide 3 (INSL3), a small peptide that, in utero , acts through the relaxin-like family peptide receptor 2 (RXFP2) to promote trans-abdominal testicular descent. INSL3 concentrations increase in boys during puberty ( 50 ). HYPOTHALAMUS The hypothalamus serves as the rheostat for many physiological functions especially reproduction and growth. The adult human hypothalamus contains approximately 2000 GnRH neurons with cell bodies diffusely distributed in a rostro-caudal continuum ( 34 ). The GnRH neurons send projections to the median eminence that terminate in close association with the capillaries of the primary plexus of the hypophyseal portal circulation. Synchronized activity of the GnRH neurons leads to episodic GnRH release into the median eminence with consequent pulsatile pituitary gonadotropin secretion. An extrinsic hypothalamic neuronal network, known as the GnRH pulse generator, governs GnRH neuron function. This network is located within the infundibular nucleus (known as the arcuate nucleus in non-human species). In the human, the GnRH pulse generator is responsible for tonic gonadotropin secretion; pulsatile LH and FSH secretion regulate testicular function in men and modulate ovarian function, especially folliculogenesis in women. In women, the developing follicle secretes increasing amounts of estradiol ultimately triggering an LH surge followed by ovulation. In adult men, pulse frequency is relatively constant at approximately one pulse every 90-120 minutes. Among women, pulse frequency varies across the menstrual cycle from approximately one pulse per
