Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


ovulation. In adult men, pulse frequency is relatively constant at approximately one pulse every 90-120 minutes. Among women, pulse frequency varies across the menstrual cycle from approximately one pulse per hour during the follicular phase and one pulse every 180 minutes during the luteal phase. Among GnRH deficient women, pulsatile GnRH administered at a frequency simulating the follicular phase led to ovulatory menstrual cycles ( 51 ). In a preclinical model, administration of pulsatile GnRH to prepubertal rhesus female monkeys initiated pubertal development including ovulatory menstrual cycles ( 52 ). Thus, puberty in girls and boys is entirely dependent on resumption of pulsatile GnRH release. Although the GnRH pulse generator was conceptualized by Fred Karsch and Ernst Knobil, the anatomic location of the pulse generator was indeterminant. Identification of loss of function variants in the kisspeptin receptor ( KISS1R ) gene in patients with congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism launched the investigations establishing kisspeptin, neurokinin B, dynorphin, and their cognate receptors as major components of the pulse generator ( 53 , 54 ). Kisspeptin signals through its receptor, KISS1R, expressed on GnRH cells. Neurokinin B is a decapeptide encoded by the TAC3 ( Tac2 in rodents) gene and its cognate receptor encoded by NK3R gene. Both the kisspeptin and neurokinin B receptors are G-protein coupled receptors. Dynorphin is an opioid peptide that signals through a kappa-opioid receptor which is also a G-protein coupled receptor. Due to the inaccessibility of human brain, especially the pubertal brain, the contemporary model of the GnRH pulse generator has been delineated by preclinical studies performed in rodents, sheep, and non-human primates ( 55 ). This model predicts that reciprocal interactions within a network of kisspeptin neurons in the infundibular nucleus leads to synchronous intermittent activation transmitted to GnRH neurons by kisspeptin fibers that project to the median eminence. These kisspeptin fibers are closely associated with GnRH projections targeting the portal capillaries ( 56 ). Based on the detection of kisspeptin, neurokinin B, and dynorphin in the arcuate kisspeptin neurons of mice and sheep, these neurons have been labeled as KNDy neurons ( 57 ). Preclinical data suggest that KNDy neurons serve as the intrinsic GnRH pulse generator ( 58 ). Kisspeptin and neurokinin B stimulate GnRH release whereas dynorphin appears to be inhibitory. Coordinated interactions of these neuropeptides within the arcuate kisspeptin neuronal network are ostensibly central to the neurobiology of the GnRH pulse generator resulting in
