Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


whereas dynorphin appears to be inhibitory. Coordinated interactions of these neuropeptides within the arcuate kisspeptin neuronal network are ostensibly central to the neurobiology of the GnRH pulse generator resulting in pulsatile kisspeptin output. However, the applicability of these findings to human biology remains to be confirmed. In humans, the HPG axis is active during gestation and the early neonatal period followed by the quiescent years of childhood until the onset of puberty occurs. This pattern suggests that diverse mechanisms integrate the hierarchical activation and deactivation of various stimulatory and inhibitory neuronal pathways ultimately regulating pubertal onset and progression towards reproductive maturity. Thus, a central inhibition of the axis occurs during childhood. For puberty to occur, increased expression of the key factors, KISS1 , NKB3 , and GnRH , must begin along with decreased expression of the various inhibitory factors. In other words, during the pubertal transition, the balance between inhibitory and stimulatory factors shifts to favor the re-activation of the HPG axis, onset of pubertal changes, and reproductive competence. Identifying the proximate factors and specific interactions responsible for the on-off-on pattern of HPG axis activity in humans has been a longstanding enigma. Starting with clinical findings, the availability of more sophisticated tools and preclinical models have begun to identify pieces of the puzzle to elucidate the fine details of HPG axis functioning. One factor involved in the suppression of puberty was identified in families with paternally inherited GnRH-dependent/central precocious puberty (CPP). Exome sequencing analyses in multiple families with CPP identified loss of function variants in the makorin 3 ( MKRN3 ) gene ( 59 ). This gene, mapped to the Prader Willi region at chromosome 15q11.2, is exclusively expressed from the paternal allele. Consistent with the hypothesis that MKRN3 suppresses the GnRH pulse generator, circulating MKRN3 concentrations decline during puberty ( 60 , 61 , 62 ). The MKRN3 protein is an E3 ubiquitin ligase consisting of 507 amino acids. It is expressed in KNDy neurons. The protein has five zinc finger domains. Regarding its function, the protein can ubiquitinate substrates and can undergo auto-ubiquitination ( 63 ). MKRN3 ubiquitinates methyl-CpG-DNA binding protein 3 (MBP3) interfering with GnRH1 transcription ( 64 ). Available preclinical data suggest that MKRN3 functions as a brake on neuronal GnRH release ( 65 ). One potential factor influencing MKRN3 expression is microRNA (miRNA) miR-30. Using a rat model, hypothalamic miR-30 expression increased while Mkrn3 expression
