Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


a brake on neuronal GnRH release ( 65 ). One potential factor influencing MKRN3 expression is microRNA (miRNA) miR-30. Using a rat model, hypothalamic miR-30 expression increased while Mkrn3 expression decreased during puberty. In addition, treatment with agents that interfered with the binding of miR-30 to Mkrn3 were associated with delayed puberty in female rats ( 66 ). Using proteomics, MKRN3 targets include insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 1 (IGF2BP1) and several members of the polyadenylate-binding protein family ( 67 ). The decline of hypothalamic Mkrn3 expression in mice and serum MKRN3 protein levels in females prior to the onset of puberty support the hypothesis that MKRN3 suppresses pubertal initiation possibly through effects on prepubertal hypothalamic development and plasticity ( 61 , 67 ) Preclinical studies have provided persuasive evidence regarding the regulatory role of epigenetic modifications in pubertal maturation. Epigenetics refers to changes in gene expression and/or activity independent of changes in the primary nucleotide sequence ( 68 ). Epigenetic changes include DNA modifications such as methylation/demethylation and histone post-translational modifications such as acetylation/deacetylation. Other post-translational protein modifications such as ubiquitination may also influence protein function. Ubiquitination involves the transfer of ubiquitin to a protein altering its function typically by interfering with protein actions or by promoting protein degradation. As noted above, the MKRN3 protein can function as a ubiquitin ligase. Noncoding RNAs such as miRNAs provide yet another regulatory mechanism. Another example of epigenetic regulation of pubertal maturation involves two mutually antagonistic histone methylating complexes, the Poly-comb and Trithorax groups. The Poly-comb group represses gene transcription while the Trithorax group appears to function as a gene activator. Preclinical studies performed in rats showed that the Poly-comb group effectively silenced Kiss1 expression until the onset of puberty when increased methylation of the Eed and Cbx7 genes occurred leading to decreased Eed and Cbx7 expression and increased Kiss1 expression ( 69 ). Recruitment of the Trithorax activity group further enhanced. Kiss1 expression ( 70 , 71 ). Genome wide association studies have implicated zinc finger (ZNF) genes. In nonhuman primates, expression of two ZNFs, GATAD1 and ZNF573, decreases upon pubertal reactivation of the GnRH pulse generator ( 71 ). Clinically, it has long been recognized that extremes of body energy status such as chronic malnutrition or severe obesity influence the HPG axis especially in girls and women. The hypothalamic kisspeptin neurons integrate various peripheral and central metabolic signals reflecting
