Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


energy status such as chronic malnutrition or severe obesity influence the HPG axis especially in girls and women. The hypothalamic kisspeptin neurons integrate various peripheral and central metabolic signals reflecting energy intake, energy expenditure, and environmental circumstances. Signal coordination between reproductive and metabolic neurons can be direct or indirect. For example, leptin does not directly regulate kisspeptin neurons yet acts as a permissive factor for the onset of puberty ( 72 ). Cellular energy and metabolic sensors include mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), and sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) ( 73 ). Depending on energy status, mTOR and AMPK promote or repress puberty, respectively, by activating or inhibiting Kiss 1 neurons in the arcuate nucleus. Other factors such as melanocortin and agouti-related peptides also interact with kisspeptin pathway ( 74 ). In the hypothalamus, neuronal nitric oxide (NO) appears to act on GnRH neurons to integrate metabolic and gonadal information ( 75 , 76 ). Detailed reviews regarding the neurobiology of the GnRH pulse generator are beyond the scope of this chapter and are available elsewhere ( 77 , 78 , 79 , 80 , 81 , 82 ). MINI-PUBERTY Facilitated by the availability of more sensitive hormone assays, Forest and her colleagues described a transient period of increased HPG axis activity in early infancy ( 83 , 84 ). Following the low gonadotropin concentrations at birth, gonadotropin concentrations were found to rise in both boys and girls within weeks of birth ( 85 ). This period of transient gonadotropin secretion has been designated as “minipuberty”. Gonadotropin concentrations in the immediate neonatal period are likely low due to in-utero suppression by placental estrogen. With removal of the placental estrogen suppression, the HPG axis is functional. Relevantly, physical findings typical of pubertal sex steroid secretion are absent with the rare exception of vaginal bleeding attributed to decreased exposure to placental estrogen. Over the first few years of life, sexual dimorphism in gonadotropin concentrations occurs ( 86 ) Boys have higher LH concentrations which peak between 2-10 weeks of age and decline by 4-6 months of age. Girls have higher FSH concentrations which may remain elevated until 2-4 years of age. In boys, LH stimulates testicular testosterone secretion with testosterone concentrations typically peaking around 1 month of age followed by a decline to prepubertal concentrations by 7-12 months of age. During this phase, the number of germ cells and Sertoli
