Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


concentrations typically peaking around 1 month of age followed by a decline to prepubertal concentrations by 7-12 months of age. During this phase, the number of germ cells and Sertoli cells increase and penile size increases ( 87 , 88 ). The proliferation of Sertoli cells leads to a transient increase in testicular volume ( 89 ). Sertoli cells secrete Anti-Mullerian Hormone (AMH) and inhibin B. Since Sertoli cells do not express androgen receptors during this stage, spermatogenesis does not occur and AMH secretion remains high ( 90 , 91 ). A temporary increase in the number of Leydig cells also occurs, but subsequent fetal Leydig cell apoptosis reduces fetal Leydig cell number ( 92 ). Longitudinal data obtained from healthy boys suggests a temporal dissociation of Leydig and Sertoli cell activity during minipuberty ( 93 ). These data suggest that single blood sample may be insufficient to assess HPG axis activity during early infancy and that obtaining several consecutive samples may be more informative. Curiously, gonadotropin and testosterone concentrations are higher among preterm boys. In addition, increases in testicular volume and penile length are greater in preterm boys compared to full term boys essentially enabling catch-up for testicular volume and penile length ( 94 ). Some small studies have documented an exaggerated physiologic hormonal response in extremely premature infants ( 95 ). In girls, the gonadotropins promote granulosa cell proliferation and ovarian estrogen and AMH secretion ( 96 ). As would be anticipated, AMH concentrations remain much lower in girls compared to boys ( 97 ). A longitudinal study involving healthy full-term infant girls demonstrated two gonadotropin peaks in early infancy with one peak occurring around days 15 to 27 and a later peak occurring at days 164-165 ( 98 ). Again, collecting several consecutive samples may be more informative than a single blood sample to assess for minipuberty in infancy. This transient time period of an active HPG axis, provides an opportunity to diagnose individuals with differences/variants of sex development (DSD/VSD). In a series including both healthy infants and infants with DSD, testosterone measured by LC-MS/MS, AMH concentration, and LH/FSH ratio provided the best discrimination between sexes. The cut-point for LH/FSH ratio was 0.32. Inhibin B and AMH levels were higher in boys with minimal overlap in girls ( 99 ). Infants with Turner Syndrome usually have elevated FSH concentrations. Surprisingly, gonadotropin concentrations are typically not elevated in
