Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


levels were higher in boys with minimal overlap in girls ( 99 ). Infants with Turner Syndrome usually have elevated FSH concentrations. Surprisingly, gonadotropin concentrations are typically not elevated in patients with complete androgen insensitivity. This brief interval of HPG axis activity can also help diagnose congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in boys who present with micropenis accompanied by low gonadotropin and testosterone concentrations ( 100 ). Testosterone, LH, FSH, AMH, and inhibin B concentrations may provide information regarding the functionality of testicular tissue in infant boys ( 101 ). As noted above, the human HPG axis displays an “on-off-on” pattern. The biological basis and rationale for transient post-natal HPG axis activity during the first few months of life are enigmatic. At birth, the brain is still plastic with ongoing development. Most axon and synapse formations are completed during the first year of life. Does this transient HPG axis activity imprint specific areas in the brain? Does minipuberty influence future patterns for female and male reproductive function with cyclic gonadotropin patterns in females and not in males? Are gonadal hormones during infancy able to affect future fertility, gender identity, sexual orientation, behaviors, and risk for autism spectrum dysfunction? Data are accruing regarding patterns of hormone secretion during the first six months of life. However, the factors that initiate and terminate this transient period of HPG axis activity and maintain the quiescence of the HPG axis until the onset of puberty are still unknown. SECULAR TRENDS REGARDING PUBERTY Over the past few decades, several studies have observed that puberty is beginning at a younger age. Clinical studies examining ages of the onset of puberty depend on the criteria used to denote puberty. Onset of breast development and age at menarche are the conventional indicators of puberty in girls. Prospective observations and retrospective questioning of parents and young girls through in-person questioning has been used to record age at menarche; shorter recall intervals provide the greatest accuracy regarding the details of menarche ( 102 , 103 ). For boys, age at voice change has been used as a surrogate marker because accurate ascertainment of pubertal onset in boys requires testicular exams using an orchidometer, thus, effectively excluding large-scale epidemiologic clinical studies ( 104 ). During medieval times, available evidence suggests that puberty began around 10-12 years of age. However, the tempo of puberty was slow with menarche occurring closer to 15 years in rural
