Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


years ( 111 ). This cohort differed from the NHANES III study because Hispanic girls experienced menarche earlier than the black girls. These studies, all performed in the United States, report race and ethnicity-related differences in onset of pubertal milestones. Detailed assessment of the potential impact of socio-economic factors was not performed. Notably, differences noted in pubertal timing are smaller than the overall variation among individuals in the population. Most importantly, clinical decision-making should reflect an individual patient's characteristics and family history with less dependence on racial or ethnic backgrounds. Comparable studies from Spain and Greece have also reported earlier onset of breast development and slower pubertal tempo ( 112 , 113 ). Thus, available data including a systemic review of international studies largely confirm the ongoing trend for earlier breast development with minimal decline in age at menarche ( 114 ). Several questions regarding this earlier onset of puberty, predominantly earlier thelarche, need to be considered. Does this earlier breast development reflect earlier resumption of GnRH pulse generator activity, extragonadal estrogen production, or environmental exposures? What, if any, is the relationship of BMI to puberty? Another consideration is that race/ethnicity are socio-political constructs and are not fully representative of biology. While genetic ancestry likely influences the onset of puberty, nutritional factors and environmental exposures play important roles. Hence, should cut-off points based primarily on race/ethnicity continue to be utilized? Based on single unstimulated gonadotropin concentrations, data from the Copenhagen puberty in girls study suggest that gonadotropin concentrations are not obviously increased in girls with early thelarche. Thus, the phenomenon of early thelarche appears to be independent of gonadotropin secretion and may not signify early resumption of GnRH pulse generator activity ( 115 ). The possibility that exposure to endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) can induce early thelarche has been questioned. EDCs are defined as exogenous chemicals that interfere with hormone action. EDCs include phthalates, phenols, phytoestrogens, organochlorine pesticides, polybrominated flame retardants, diphenyl ethers, heavy metals, and perfluorochemicals. In addition to pesticides, these chemicals can be found in common household products such as hair products, soaps, toothpaste, perfumes, plastics, essential oils, and cleaning products ( 116 ). Valid assessment of the consequences of EDCs on puberty is problematic because exposure may occur in utero and generally involves a mixture of assorted EDCs with differing half-lives and activities. Differences in the duration and route of the exposure(s), methodology to detect EDCs, and potential
