Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


in utero and generally involves a mixture of assorted EDCs with differing half-lives and activities. Differences in the duration and route of the exposure(s), methodology to detect EDCs, and potential sample contamination further confound analyses. One potential example regarding EDCs involved transient past exposure to organochlorine pesticides among internationally adopted girls in Belgium who subsequently developed precocious puberty ( 117 ). Animal models suggest that EDCs can affect puberty through epigenetic mechanisms ( 118 ). Nevertheless, most data available regarding the consequences of EDCs on human puberty are inconclusive ( 119 ). Relationship with BMI Observational data has shown a relationship between BMI and age at puberty in girls ( 120 , 121 ). The BCERP study found that girls who were overweight or obese at baseline experienced menarche 0.3 years earlier with age at thelarche being inversely correlated with BMI. The BCERP also concluded that BMI had a greater effect than ethnic background on age at menarche ( 111 ). Limited data exist regarding the relationship of BMI to pubertal onset in boys. The Puberty Cohort of the Danish National Birth Cohort reported that increased BMI was associated with earlier onset of puberty in boys and girls ( 122 ). Among boys, pubertal milestones, testicular enlargement, voice break, and testosterone concentrations showed inverse correlation with BMI ( 104 ). Hence, available evidence strongly indicates an inverse relationship between BMI and the onset of puberty in both boys and girls. Yet, investigating the relationship between puberty and BMI is confounded by potential hormonal and genetic influences ( 123 ). Obesity may be associated with hyperinsulinemia and lower sex hormone binding globulin concentrations with consequent higher free sex steroid concentrations. In addition, some genes influence both BMI and pubertal timing ( 124 , 125 ). The pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) and central melanocortin systems provide one example of the intricate interrelationships between nutrient signaling and reproductive function. Neurons expressing POMC, producing α-MSH (melanocyte-stimulating hormone), have been suggested to stimulate puberty onset and gonadotropin secretion via modulation of arcuate Kiss1 neurons ( 126 , 127 ). Genetic Factors Genetic factors influence pubertal timing as evidenced by twin studies demonstrating > 50% hereditability for menarche ( 128 ). Skeletal maturation, age at pubertal growth spurt, and Tanner staging also show greater concordance between monozygotic twins compared to dizygotic twins emphasizing the relevance of genetic variation in the timing of puberty. Thus, 50-80% of variation in
