Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


and Tanner staging also show greater concordance between monozygotic twins compared to dizygotic twins emphasizing the relevance of genetic variation in the timing of puberty. Thus, 50-80% of variation in the timing of puberty onset may reflect genetic variation ( 129 ). Parental self-reports regarding pubertal timing are associated with timing of specific pubertal milestones in offspring of the concordant sex ( 130 , 131 ). Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have detected loci associated with age at menarche ( 132 ). Some loci appear to be common and independent of ancestry. A large-scale trans-ethnic GWAS, involving 38,546 women of diverse and predominantly non-European ancestry or ethnicity, identified a novel locus in chromosome 10p15 that is associated with early menarche. This region maps to intron 7 of the aldo-keto reductase Family 1, member C4 (AKR1C4) gene, a member of family of enzymes involved in steroid metabolism and action ( 133 ). To summarize, the secular trends suggesting an earlier onset of puberty appear to be persistent although the age at menarche appears to be relatively static. Likely contributing factors include the rising prevalence of obesity, exposure to potential EDCs, specific dietary influences, and decreased physical activity. VARIATIONS IN PUBERTAL DEVELOPMENT Timing of the onset of puberty reflects complex interactions between hormonal and neuronal signals with genetic, metabolic, and environmental factors. These interactions presumably begin early in development and ultimately lead to the re-activation of the HPG axis concomitant with the onset of puberty. Multiple factors, both known and unknown, influence the reactivation of the GnRH pulse generator modulating pubertal onset. As noted above, familial patterns of pubertal development and twin studies highlight the role of genetic factors. Studies of families with either delayed or precocious puberty led to discovery of genes relevant to pubertal onset. In addition, genetic factors including single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been associated with pubertal timing in both sexes and across ethnic groups. Epigenetic mechanisms have been suggested to affect the development and function of the GnRH neuronal network ultimately influencing HPG axis function. How confounders such as socioeconomic, environmental, and nutritional status influence pubertal development is unclear. These factors can influence puberty timing, HPG axis function, and fertility. Precocious puberty is defined as the development of puberty prior to age 8 in girls, and age 9 in boys ( 134 , 135 ). In girls, delayed puberty is defined as the absence of breast development by
