Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


puberty prior to age 8 in girls, and age 9 in boys ( 134 , 135 ). In girls, delayed puberty is defined as the absence of breast development by age 13 years, absence of menarche by age 15 or lack of menses after 3 years since breast development. In boys, delayed puberty is defined as absence of pubertal development by age 14 ( 136 ). Evaluation of a child with abnormal timing of puberty entails thorough knowledge of normal pubertal development, typical variations of normal pubertal development, and causes of abnormal pubertal development. The next section focuses on the evaluation of a patient presenting with a variation in pubertal development. PRECOCIOUS PUBERTY Traditionally, the diagnosis of precocious puberty is considered when signs of puberty develop prior to 8 years of age in girls and 9 years in boys ( 137 ). These ages are based on Tanner’s original observations on English children regarding typical ages at specific pubertal stages. However, these age criteria should be used as guidelines to complement the evaluation of individual patients. Precocious puberty can be categorized as central or gonadotropin-dependent precocious puberty (CPP) or non-gonadotropin-dependent or peripheral precocious puberty (PPP). Additionally precocious puberty can be further classified as familial or sporadic and syndromic or non-syndromic. The specific etiologies and management differ between the two broad categories of CPP or PPP. Potential consequences of early puberty and menarche in girls include increased risks for breast cancer and diabetes as adults ( 138 , 139 ). CENTRAL PRECOCIOUS PUBERTY OR GONADOTROPHIN DEPENDENT PRECOCIOUS PUBERTY Central precocious puberty (CPP) is associated with early maturation of the HPG with premature reactivation of the GnRH pulse generator and sequential maturation of breasts and pubic hair in females. In males, sequential maturation of testicular volume, penile enlargement, and pubic hair is observed. Typically, the pubertal characteristics are appropriate for the child's sex (isosexual). Despite the earlier onset of puberty, the sequence of pubertal events is usually normal. CPP is due to organic lesions in approximately 40-100 percent of boys whereas idiopathic precocious puberty is the most common diagnosis in girls (69-98%) ( 140 ). These children have accelerated linear growth for age, advanced bone age, and pubertal levels of LH and FSH. A Spanish observational report described an annual incidence of CPP ranging between 0.02 and 1.07 new cases per 100,000 ( 141 ) while a Korean study reported an incidence
