Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


FSH. A Spanish observational report described an annual incidence of CPP ranging between 0.02 and 1.07 new cases per 100,000 ( 141 ) while a Korean study reported an incidence of 15.3 per 100,000 girls, and 0.6 per 100,000 boys ( 142 ). Distinguishing among CPP, isolated premature thelarche, and premature adrenarche is important because the pathophysiology and therapeutic interventions differ. CNS LESIONS/INSULTS CPP can be associated with central nervous system lesions. Hamartomas of the tuber cinereum are congenital benign lesions comprised of heterotopic gray matter, neurons, and glial cells. The prevalence is approximately 1 in 200,000 children ( 143 ). Hamartomas are the most commonly recognized CNS lesions associated with CPP in very young children. Hamartomas can be categorized as para-hypothalamic , attached or suspended from the floor of the third ventricle, or as intrahypothalamic , in which the mass is enveloped by the hypothalamus and distorts the third ventricle. The lesions do not grow over time, do not metastasize, and do not produce β-human chorionic gonadotropin-(β-hCG). In some instances, hamartomas are associated with gelastic (laughing or crying) seizures. Yet, most patients with hypothalamic hamartomas do not display neurological symptoms ( 144 , 145 ). Most hypothalamic hamartomas are sporadic and appear to be idiopathic. Hypothalamic hamartomas can also occur in Pallister-Hall Syndrome (PHS) and oral-facial-digital syndrome (OFD) types I and VI ( 146 ). Genetic variants in the sonic hedgehog pathway have been associated with hypothalamic hamartoma ( 147 , 148 ). The mechanism(s) through which hypothalamic hamartomas lead to CPP is unknown. Hamartoma located close to the infundibulum or tuber cinereum are often associated with CPP whereas those functionally connected to the mammillary bodies and limbic circuit are typically associated with epilepsy without CPP ( 149 , 150 ). As discussed below, medical treatment is usually indicated for hypothalamic hamartomas associated with CPP. Surgical treatment should be limited to large hamartomas complicated by severe refractory drug-resistant epilepsy ( 151 ). CNS tumors such as astrocytomas, ependymomas, and pinealomas have rarely been associated with CPP. Among girls, factors associated with CNS lesions include: ( 1 ) age younger than 6 years; ( 2 ) absence of pubic hair; and ( 3 ) estradiol concentrations greater than 30 pg/ml (110 pmol/L) ( 152 , 153 ). As noted above, suspicion for CNS lesions is higher for boys than for girls. Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is an autosomal dominant multi-system
