Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


(110 pmol/L) ( 152 , 153 ). As noted above, suspicion for CNS lesions is higher for boys than for girls. Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is an autosomal dominant multi-system neurocutaneous disorder due to loss-of-function variants in the neurofibromin-1 ( NF1 ) gene located at chromosome 17q11.2. NF1 is often associated with CPP typically due to optic glioma. The glioma is usually a benign pilocytic astrocytoma that can occur anywhere along the optic tract; the most common locations are within the optic nerve or chiasm. CPP has also been described in NF1 in the absence of optic glioma ( 154 ). Children with meningomyelocele and spina bifida also have an increased incidence of CPP. Although the precise mechanism responsible for CPP in these children is unclear, associated factors may include increased perinatal intracranial pressure and brainstem malformations such as Chiari II malformations ( 155 ). The mechanistic link between CPP and Rathke cleft cysts, Chiari malformation, and pineal and arachnoid cysts is unclear. Septo-optic dysplasia (SOD) is a heterogeneous congenital condition characterized by presence of at least two features of the classic triad which include optic nerve hypoplasia, anterior pituitary hormone deficiencies, and midline brain anomalies. SOD is associated with genetic variants in HESX1, SOX2, SOX3, and OTX2 genes. Although SOD is typically associated with delayed puberty, CPP can occur ( 156 , 157 ). CNS tumors may be treated with CNS irradiation ( 158 ). In some instances, CNS irradiation is associated with acquired CPP ( 159 ). In this situation, concurrent growth hormone (GH) deficiency may be present. The linear growth spurt of CPP may mask the decreased linear growth velocity due to GH deficiency. Hence, in this setting, consideration should be given to evaluating the GH axis by provocative GH testing. If testing shows GH deficiency, the patient may benefit from treatment with GH combined with GnRH agonist therapy. Rarely, CPP occurs following head trauma and can develop many years after the injury( 160 , 161 ). SECONDARY CPP Some children exposed to elevated circulating high sex steroid concentrations occurring in other disorders such as McCune-Albright syndrome, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, and virilizing adrenocortical tumors may develop a secondary CPP ( 163 ). These individuals typically have accelerated bone age maturation. The precise mechanism responsible for development of the secondary CPP is unclear. The secondary CPP may represent a priming effect of sex steroids on the hypothalamus or
