Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


plays a role in the Notch signaling pathway. DLK1 is a paternally expressed gene located at chromosome 14q32.2. Two differentially methylated regions influence the DLK1 imprinting pattern. DLK is located within the genetic locus associated with Temple syndrome. Temple syndrome is characterized by prenatal growth retardation, hypotonia in infancy, motor delay, small hands, CPP, and short stature. In addition to DLK1 loss, two other genes from the paternally inherited chromosome, RTL1 and DIO3 , results in Temple Syndrome. Genetic findings associated with Temple syndrome include maternal uniparental disomy, paternal deletion, or loss of differential methylation at the DLK1/MEG3 region on chromosome 14 ( 170 ). Women with DLK1 variants also have a metabolic phenotype characterized by overweight/obesity and insulin resistance ( 171 ). Gain-of-function variants in the kisspeptin 1 gene ( KISS1 ) and its cognate receptor, KISS1R , gene have been identified in children with CPP. A heterozygous variant in the KISS1 gene, p.Pro74Ser, was identified in a boy who developed CPP at one year of age; in vitro studies suggested that this variant was more stable than the normal protein leading to a prolonged duration of action ( 172 ). A girl with precocious puberty was found to have a variant in the KISS1R gene; in vitro studies of this p.Arg386Pro variant showed prolonged activation of the intracellular signaling pathways following kisspeptin stimulation ( 173 , 174 ). Among a series of 586 children with familial CPP, both maternal and paternal inheritance patterns were found. Variants in MKRN3 were the most common cause in paternally inherited CPP. Among the maternally inherited cases, genetic analysis detected rare variants of unknown significance ( 175 ). SYNDROMIC CPP In addition to genetic and idiopathic CPP, CPP can occur as a feature in specific syndromes. Pallister-Hall and Temple Syndrome are described above. Other syndromes associated with CPP include Cowden and Cowden-like cancer predisposition syndromes associated with PTEN, SDHB-D and KLLN gene variants. These disorders are characterized by multiple multisystemic hamartomas which may be associated with CPP when the skull base, infundibulum, or hypothalamus are affected. Although Prader-Willi syndrome is typically associated with delayed puberty, CPP has also been reported ( 176 ). Other genetic syndromes associated with CPP include tuberous sclerosis and Williams-Beuren (See Table 2 ). Williams-Beuren is associated with genetic variant at chromosome 7q11.23 ( 177 ). Rare cases of precocious puberty have also been reported in Russell Silver syndrome
