Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


GH, prolactin, and ACTH. LH and FSH are secreted by gonadotrophs which are derived from the steroidogenesis factor 1(SF-1) lineage. Gonadotroph adenomas, a type of pituitary adenoma, account for approximately 40% of pituitary adenomas ( 180 , 181 ) in adults. In children, gonadotroph adenomas can very rarely cause central precocious puberty ( 182 ). Though, most gonadotroph adenomas are nonfunctional and benign, rare cases of functional adenomas have been reported. Hormone profiles of functioning adenomas most commonly show elevated FSH concentrations with or without increase in LH concentrations. Elevated TSH secretion resulting in hyperthyroidism may occur concurrently ( 180 , 181 ). GUT MICROBIOME AND PUBERTY Microbiota interact with a variety of metabolic and endocrine pathways of the host through genetic expression of more than 100 times the human genome. The gut microbiome variety, composition and impact on health depend on a vast number of variables, both internal, such as age, genetic factors, gender, and endocrine and immune systems, as well as external factors, such as diet, environment, drugs, and pathogens. The relationship between sex hormones and gut microbiome is complex. Sex steroids may directly or indirectly influence the sex-specific gut microbiome that develops during puberty ( 183 ). One study reported several gut microbiome alterations in girls with CPP including Ruminococcus bromii, Ruminococcus callidus, Roseburia inulinivorans, Coprococcus eutactus, Clostridium sporosphaeroides , Clostridium lactatifermentans, Alistipes, Klebsiella and Sutterella ( 176 ) . Although the evidence of the interaction between microbiota and sex hormones remains limited, evidence of diversity of the gut microbiota at different pubertal stages and that alterations may occur in girls with CPP represents an area for potential future development in the prediction and prevention of precocious puberty ( 184 ). Treatment of central precocious puberty GONADOTROPIN-RELEASING HORMONE ANALOGS Long-acting Gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogs (GnRHa) have been the standard treatment of CPP since the mid-1980s ( 185 , 186 ). The GnRHa are super-agonists that bind to the pituitary GnRH receptor downregulating the endogenous pituitary GnRH receptor resulting in decreased gonadotropin and sex steroid secretion. These medications are modified preparations of the native GnRH decapeptide engineered to increase potency and duration of action by substituting a D-isomer amino acid for the naturally occurring L-glycine at position 6. In some analogs, the tenth amino acid is deleted with modification of the naturally occurring L-proline at position 9 ( 14 ). Several distinct GnRHa preparations are available differing in route
