Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


some analogs, the tenth amino acid is deleted with modification of the naturally occurring L-proline at position 9 ( 14 ). Several distinct GnRHa preparations are available differing in route of administration and duration of action (See Table 3 ) ( 28 ). The choice of a specific GnRHa depends on patient, caregiver, and physician preference and on insurance coverage/payment/authorization. Treatment with GnRHa leads to regression or stabilization of pubertal symptoms, deceleration of linear growth velocity, and slowing of skeletal maturation. Some girls experience estrogen withdrawal bleeding about 2-3 weeks following the first injection. Parents and the patient should be counseled to expect this episode of vaginal bleeding ( 187 ). Table 3. Currently Available GnRHa Therapeutic Options View in own window GnRHa Preparations Dose Frequency Route Goserelin 3.6mg Once a month intramuscular Leuprolide 7.5mg Once a month intramuscular 11.25mg Once a month intramuscular 15mg Once a month intramuscular 11.25mg Every 3 months intramuscular 30mg Every 3 months intramuscular 45mg Every 6 months intramuscular Leuprolide 45mg Every 6 months subcutaneous Triptorelin 22.5mg Every 6 months intramuscular Nafarelin 800mcg Twice daily intranasal Histrelin 50mg Annually * Subdermal implant * May be used up to 2 years ( 481 ). Adverse Effects In general, GnRHas are safe and effective. Adverse events include injection site reactions and sterile abscesses at the site of the injection or implant ( 188 , 189 , 190 ) which may result in loss of efficacy. Minor reported side effects include headaches, hot flashes, vaginal withdrawal bleeding, and mood swings ( 191 ). Extremely rare side effects include hypersensitivity reactions, seizures, slipped capital femoral epiphysis, idiopathic intracranial hypertension, and anaphylaxis. One concern regarding the histrelin implant is possible device fracture during extraction; ultrasound-guided removal of the remaining fragments may be necessary ( 192 ). GnRHas, specifically only leuprolide and degarelix, have been associated with prolonged QT interval. A prolonged QT interval increases the risk of developing torsades de pointes (TdP) which is a ventricular arrhythmia associated with sudden cardiac death. Low serum potassium or magnesium may exacerbate the risk for prolonged QT interval. Individuals also taking anti-psychotics (typical and atypical), anxiolytics, and anti-depressants may have an increased risk for prolonged QT intervals when taking leuprolide. Hence, providers should inquire regarding other medications, history of congenital heart disease, and family history of Long QT Syndrome or sudden death. If positive, the provider should obtain screening and follow-up EKGs. Studies
