Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


inquire regarding other medications, history of congenital heart disease, and family history of Long QT Syndrome or sudden death. If positive, the provider should obtain screening and follow-up EKGs. Studies conflict regarding how GnRHa treatment impacts weight gain and BMI. Some studies have reported weight gain during treatment ( 193 , 194 , 195 , 196 ) whereas others have not found any significant change in weight or BMI ( 197 , 198 ) . As with all patients, counseling patients regarding the pre-treatment weight trajectory and healthy lifestyle is beneficial. Women with a history of CPP have been reported to have similar adult weight to the general population ( 199 ). Bone mineral density is typically elevated at diagnosis with deceleration in bone mineral accrual during treatment. However, follow-up several years after treatment shows normal bone mineral density compared to population norms ( 200 ). Available outcome data suggest that fertility is not compromised for women or men with histories of CPP ( 192 , 201 , 202 , 203 , 204 ). Despite suggestions that CPP is associated with subsequent development of PCOS, available data are inconsistent. Prospective longitudinal studies are needed to adequately address this concern ( 205 , 206 ). Who to Treat? For patients less than 7 years of age with a confirmed diagnosis of CPP, the benefit of GnRHa treatment is generally unequivocal. However, the value of GnRHa treatment may be unclear for the peripubertal child (typically a girl) with onset of puberty between 7-9 years of age especially when treatment is unlikely to improve the predicted adult height (PAH) ( 207 ). Some girls and their families are comfortable with early pubertal onset and early menarche. In contrast, some girls and their families are distraught when even contemplating early puberty and premature menarche. Consistent evidence-based data regarding negative psychosocial consequences in children with CPP are lacking ( 208 ). Further, it may be challenging to justify the medical benefits of GnRHa therapy for early puberty due to the accompanying burdens of increased physician office visits and financial impact. Shared decision-making involving the patient, parents, and medical staff is indispensable to address the benefits and risks of GnRHa in the individual patient ( 209 ) . Goals of Treatment Goals of GnRHa treatment include prevention of pubertal progression and height preservation ( 210 ). Growth velocity can significantly decline in some children during GnRHa
