Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


) . Goals of Treatment Goals of GnRHa treatment include prevention of pubertal progression and height preservation ( 210 ). Growth velocity can significantly decline in some children during GnRHa treatment particularly in those with a markedly advanced bone age ( 211 ). The use of other height augmenting medications including recombinant human growth hormone (GH) ( 212 , 213 , 214 , 215 ), stanozolol ( 216 , 217 ), and oxandrolone ( 218 ) have been explored but none are recommended for sole use or as an adjunct to GnRHa therapy ( 219 , 220 ). Increasing adult height must be judged considering the financial and psychological burdens of this intensive treatment regimen ( 221 ). Several recent studies have recommended treatment beyond a bone age of 12 years, however more rigorous studies are needed before such treatment is endorsed ( 222 , 223 ). Another goal of CPP treatment is to mitigate psychosocial distress and prevent adverse mental health outcomes. One epidemiological study of over 7000 women showed that adolescents with early age of menarche had higher rates of depression and antisocial behavior, which persisted into adulthood ( 224 ). Adverse psychosocial experiences reported in girls with early age at menarche include increased likelihood of teenage pregnancy and childbearing, sexual and physical assault, and reduced likelihood of high school graduation ( 225 ). However, studies thus far do not show that GnRHa therapy can mitigate these effects. One small study of 36 girls with CPP treated with GnRHas evaluated behavioral health diagnosis and health-related quality of life and found no abnormalities in psychological functioning ( 226 ). In a small study of 15 girls with CPP treated with GnRHa and 15 age-matched controls, comprehensive test batteries revealed similar scores in cognitive performance, behavioral, and psychosocial problems ( 227 ). A review of 15 studies evaluating the psychosocial impact of CPP showed an increased psychosocial and health-related quality of life burdens with CPP compared with controls ( 228 ). The same study showed qualitative data demonstrating emotional lability in patients with CPP and that physical differences associated with sexual precocity could increase feelings of shame and embarrassment which further increase isolation and social withdrawal ( 228 ). Again, larger studies are needed to better establish if and how GnRHas influences the psychosocial issues associated with CPP. Monitoring of Treatment Treatment efficacy can be monitored by repeat clinical exams
