Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


larger studies are needed to better establish if and how GnRHas influences the psychosocial issues associated with CPP. Monitoring of Treatment Treatment efficacy can be monitored by repeat clinical exams assessing pubertal progression, ultrasensitive LH, FSH and sex hormone concentrations (estradiol in girls, testosterone in boys), rate of progression of bone maturation, estimates of PAH and change in PAH, and patient satisfaction. No uniform consensus exists regarding the optimal strategy for monitoring treatment efficacy in children with CPP. Progression of breast or testicular development may indicate poor adherence, treatment failure, or incorrect diagnosis ( 188 ). Random basal LH concentrations to confirm treatment efficacy may be unhelpful because random LH levels often fail to revert to a prepubertal range even when the HPG axis is fully suppressed ( 229 , 230 ). Therefore, random LH concentrations cannot be used to indicate treatment failure. To confirm gonadotropin suppression, a GnRH stimulation test with short-acting GnRH or, alternatively, a single LH sample 30–120 min after long-acting GnRH analog administration may be performed ( 231 , 232 ) and different protocols exist regarding the specific timing and number of LH and FSH measurements ( 233 ). Some clinicians prefer to utilize clinical indices particularly in areas where hormone determinations are costly. During treatment, breast tissue usually becomes softer with variable changes in size. The rate of bone maturation typically slows with adequate treatment resulting in a decline in BA/CA or a change in BA divided by time. Recent data show that the decline in BA/CA is non-linear and that larger declines are seen in the first 18 months of treatment ( 222 ). Thereafter, a slower rate of decrease suggests maintenance of suppression rather than treatment failure. Height velocity is typically rapid prior to treatment and decreases on treatment. The height deceleration is most apparent during the first 18 months of treatment, similar to the deceleration in skeletal maturation. Subsequently, a prepubertal growth rate is often evident ( 222 ). Ideally, the rate of bone maturation decelerates resulting in a net gain in height potential. Therefore, calculating PAH during treatment helps assess efficacy. It is also important to understand that mid-parental height (MPH) influences height outcome. GnRHa treatment for CPP may restore genetic potential but rarely causes PAH to surpass genetic potential. Therefore, treatment efficacy by PAH assessment is always in comparison to MPH. Discontinuation of Therapy The decision to discontinue GnRHa treatment
