Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


potential but rarely causes PAH to surpass genetic potential. Therefore, treatment efficacy by PAH assessment is always in comparison to MPH. Discontinuation of Therapy The decision to discontinue GnRHa treatment needs to be tailored to meet the patient’s specific needs. Factors influencing the decision-making process include synchronizing pubertal progression with peers, patient readiness for resumption of puberty, recent linear growth velocity, bone age X-ray results, and adult height prediction ( 234 ). Specific considerations for the developmentally delayed child may be reviewed with the caregivers ( 137 , 234 , 235 ). Pubertal manifestations generally reappear within months of discontinuation of GnRHa treatment; the mean time to menarche is approximately 16 months ( 217 , 218 ). Several studies have reported that ovulatory function and menstrual cycles are normal once they resume ( 137 , 236 ). PERIPHERAL PRECOCIOUS PUBERTY OR GONADOTROPIN-INDEPENDENT PRECOCIOUS PUBERTY Peripheral precocious puberty (PPP) is due to either excessive endogenous gonadal or adrenal sex steroid secretion (estrogens or androgens) or from exogenous exposure to sex steroids. Ectopic gonadotropin secretion typically from a germ-cell tumor often located in the CNS can also lead to PPP. PPP may be appropriate for the child's sex (isosexual) or inappropriate, with virilization of females and feminization of males (heterosexual). In most instances, pubertal development is incomplete, and fertility is not attained. Etiologies of PPP include: MCCUNE-ALBRIGHT SYNDROME McCune-Albright syndrome (MAS) is an uncommon disorder characterized by the triad of gonadotropin-independent precocious puberty, irregular café-au-lait skin pigmentation and fibrous dysplasia of bone ( 237 , 238 ). It has been recognized more recently that MAS may exist as a “form fruste” with only one or two features ( 239 ). MAS affects both boys and girls. Importantly, precocious puberty is not observed in all affected individuals and tends to be more common among girls. MAS is due to a somatic cell (post-zygotic) variant arising early during embryogenesis in the GNAS1 gene which is located at chromosome 20q13.3. This gene encodes the G s α protein coupled to the G-protein membrane receptors for glycoprotein hormones. Vertical transmission has not been reported suggesting that germline variants are embryonic lethal. Variability in post-zygotic expression of the deleterious variant results in a mosaic pattern of tissue expression and inconsistent clinical manifestations between affected individuals ( 237 ). Two missense variants, Arg201His and Arg201Cys, are the most frequently identified variants. These variants lead to loss of the
