Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


expression and inconsistent clinical manifestations between affected individuals ( 237 ). Two missense variants, Arg201His and Arg201Cys, are the most frequently identified variants. These variants lead to loss of the α-subunit’s intrinsic GTPase activity resulting in inappropriate cyclic AMP production and constitutive receptor activation. The net result is autonomous ligand-independent signaling by LH, FSH, TSH, GHRH, and ACTH receptors leading to the associated hyperfunctioning endocrinopathies( 237 ). The café-au-lait lesions are generally large with irregular “coast of Maine” borders and typically do not cross the midline. The café-au-lait lesions result from increased tyrosinase gene expression and melanin production in affected melanocytes ( 240 ). Bone manifestations are characterized by dysplastic lesions with abnormal bone turnover and inadequate mineralization. These lesions can be associated with pain, malformations, fractures, or nerve compression. The somatic cell gain-of-function variants alter the differentiation of multi-potent skeletal stem cells resulting in the replacement of normal bone and marrow with immature woven bone and fibrotic stroma. The dysplastic tissue is characterized by abundant osteoclast-like cells. Although the somatic G s α skeletal variants arise during embryogenesis, bone development appears to be normal in utero . Bony lesions become apparent during early childhood typically reaching the maximal burden in young adulthood. The variability in the somatic cell expression accounts for the variability in the location and extent of the fibrous dysplasia. To date, an accurate ascertainment of risk to develop bone disease is unavailable. However, younger age and higher skeletal burden score derived from scintigraphic bone scans appear to predict longitudinal progression of bone disease. Importantly, evolution of bony lesions is not associated with the extent of endocrine manifestations ( 241 ). Overproduction of fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) by skeletal cells bearing the GNAS1 variant can lead to increased urinary phosphate excretion and decreased renal 1-α-hydroxylase activity ( 242 ). Although overt hypophosphatemic rickets is uncommon due to compensatory mechanisms, affected individuals often manifest increased serum FGF23 levels and renal phosphate wasting ( 243 ). In the gonads, these variants induce ligand independent activation of gonadotropin receptors resulting in subsequent autonomous ovarian estrogen and testicular testosterone secretion in affected prepubertal girls and boys, respectively. Girls may develop recurrent estrogen-secreting cysts accompanied by breast development and linear growth acceleration. Spontaneous resolution of a cyst decreases the estrogen concentration resulting in withdrawal vaginal bleeding. The sequence of pubertal development may be atypical with vaginal bleeding preceding breast development. Hence,
