Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


acceleration. Spontaneous resolution of a cyst decreases the estrogen concentration resulting in withdrawal vaginal bleeding. The sequence of pubertal development may be atypical with vaginal bleeding preceding breast development. Hence, MAS should be considered in females with recurrent ovarian cysts and vaginal withdrawal bleeding. Ovarian torsion rarely occurs. Bloodwork may reveal elevated estradiol concentrations with suppressed gonadotropin concentrations. Pelvic ultrasound typically shows one or more ovarian cysts and uterine enlargement. Nevertheless, serum estradiol concentrations and pelvic ultrasound results may be unremarkable following spontaneous involution of an ovarian cyst. Estrogen exposure may lead to accelerated skeletal maturation with adverse consequences on final adult height. In some instances, a secondary gonadotropin-dependent precocious puberty develops. In adult women, the persistent autonomous ovarian activity can lead to abnormal uterine bleeding, menometrorrhagia, which may be so severe as to require blood transfusion. Spontaneous pregnancies can occur, but relative infertility is common ( 244 ). Among boys, autonomous GNAS1 activation in the testes leads to Leydig and Sertoli cell hyperplasia which can be associated with macro-orchidism. Scrotal ultrasound may show focal masses, diffuse heterogeneity, and microlithiasis. Differing from typical pubertal progression, testicular volume in boys with MAS does not accurately indicate pubertal status. Substantial autonomous testosterone production is uncommon. Approximately 15% of boys manifest clinical signs of excessive androgen secretion ( 239 ). Leydig cell hyperplasia, the most common histologic finding of the testes, carries a low risk of malignant transformation. Thus, conservative management with periodic scrotal ultrasound imaging is appropriate for follow-up of testicular masses detected in boys with MAS ( 245 ). Other features associated with MAS include thyrotoxicosis, growth hormone excess (gigantism or acromegaly), and Cushing syndrome. Hypercortisolism is uncommon, typically occurs during the first year of life, and is associated with higher mortality attributed to secondary infections ( 246 ). Specific laboratory evaluation and treatment for associated endocrine features should be obtained. Genetic variants can be found in other nonendocrine organs (liver, intestines, and heart) resulting in cholestasis and/or hepatitis, intestinal polyps, and cardiac arrhythmias, respectively ( 247 , 248 ). Since GNAS1 variants are considered to be weak oncogenes, the risk for malignant transformation is slightly higher than for the general population ( 239 ). In addition, women with MAS have an increased risk for breast cancer attributed to earlier estrogen exposure ( 249 ). The diagnosis of MAS is usually based on the characteristic clinical features. Due to GNAS1 variant
