Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


an increased risk for breast cancer attributed to earlier estrogen exposure ( 249 ). The diagnosis of MAS is usually based on the characteristic clinical features. Due to GNAS1 variant mosaicism, only 20-30% of peripheral blood lymphocytes are positive for the variant using traditional PCR-based testing. However, variant detection is greater than 80% in the affected tissues ( 250 ). Newer circulating cell free DNA testing offers a potential methodology to assess for MAS variants ( 251 ) . Importantly, negative testing, especially of peripheral blood lymphocytes, does not exclude the diagnosis of MAS. Therapeutic goals focus on treating specific clinical manifestations. For manifestations related to puberty, current medications either inhibit sex steroid biosynthesis or block their actions at the level of end organs. Minimal evidence-based data are available because of the low prevalence of MAS. Ketoconazole, an anti-fungal medication, has been used because it inhibits the steroidogenic cytochrome P450 enzymes decreasing adrenal and gonadal steroidogenesis ( 252 ). However, ketoconazole may interfere with cortisol synthesis; patients need to be monitored for possible adrenal insufficiency and may benefit from use of stress dose hydrocortisone treatment. Rarely hepatic toxicity can occur. Aromatase inhibitors prevent conversion of androgens to estrogens. Initial reports for testolactone, fadrozole, and anastrozole were disheartening because no enduring beneficial effects on skeletal growth and bone maturation were observed. Letrozole has been used and showed sustained beneficial effects on skeletal maturation and predicted final height in one small series ( 253 ). Selective estrogen receptor modulators such as tamoxifen and fulvestrant have been used. Tamoxifen has both agonist and antagonist activity at the estrogen receptor. Despite reports regarding the efficacy of tamoxifen to reduce vaginal bleeding accompanied by positive effects on bone, this medication has been reported to increase risk of endometrial disease in adult women ( 254 ). In view of potential risks for endometrial cancer, tamoxifen should be used with great caution in women with MAS ( 255 ). Fulvestrant is a pure estrogen receptor blocker administered by intramuscular injections at monthly intervals. In one small series, vaginal bleeding was reduced with complete cessation of vaginal bleeding in only 8/25 girls. The rate of skeletal maturation decreased without any significant change in linear growth velocity or predicted adult height. Fulvestrant was reported to be well tolerated; additional studies are needed to supplement these initial findings ( 256 ). In the past, surgery cystectomy or oophorectomy had been
