Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


adult height. Fulvestrant was reported to be well tolerated; additional studies are needed to supplement these initial findings ( 256 ). In the past, surgery cystectomy or oophorectomy had been performed in girls with MAS ( 257 ). Since cyst recurrence is common, cystectomy should be avoided if possible. Women with MAS have the potential for fertility and spontaneous pregnancy; hence, oophorectomy should be avoided ( 258 ). For boys with MAS associated precocious puberty, therapeutic interventions include androgen receptor blockers, aromatase inhibitors, and ketoconazole to interfere with testosterone synthesis ( 258 ). Combination therapy with bicalutamide and anastrozole was successfully utilized in one boy with PPP due to MAS ( 259 ). Bicalutamide is a potent nonsteroidal antiandrogen that binds to and inhibits the androgen receptor and increases the receptor’s degradation. Surgical intervention should only be considered for rapidly enlarging palpable testicular masses due to the risk of malignancy ( 245 ). PREMATURE MENARCHE AND OVARIAN CYSTS Functioning ovarian follicular cysts can secrete estradiol resulting in isolated premature vaginal bleeding or peripheral precocious puberty ( 260 , 261 ). Additional signs of puberty may be absent in girls with isolated premature menarche. Although some girls may present with slight breast development followed by vaginal bleeding. The bleeding typically lasts only a few days and is usually attributed to spontaneous resolution/regression of an estrogen-secreting ovarian cyst. By the time a pelvic ultrasound can be obtained, the cyst has resolved, and the ultrasound shows no abnormalities. Isolated premature menarche may be limited to a single episode or may be recurrent. In most instances, linear growth velocity, onset of cyclic menstrual cycles, and final adult height are unaltered. Differential diagnosis includes sexual abuse, vaginal foreign body, vaginal infections, MAS, or primary hypothyroidism ( 262 ). Due to the intermittent nature of these cysts, conservative medical management is usually appropriate ( 263 ). Large cysts may predispose to ovarian torsion ( 264 , 265 , 266 , 267 ). Patients with ovarian torsion usually present with short duration of pain and systemic symptoms such as vomiting. Given the low frequency of malignancy in such an ovarian, detorsion with or without cystectomy is generally preferred ( 268 ). Gonadectomy should be avoided to preserve fertility. Rarely, rhabdomyosarcoma or sclerosing stromal tumors can present with vaginal bleeding. OVARIAN TUMORS Estrogen-secreting ovarian tumors are a rare cause of peripheral precocious puberty. Specific types of tumors include
