Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


fertility. Rarely, rhabdomyosarcoma or sclerosing stromal tumors can present with vaginal bleeding. OVARIAN TUMORS Estrogen-secreting ovarian tumors are a rare cause of peripheral precocious puberty. Specific types of tumors include granulosa cell, gonadal stromal cell, ovarian sex cord stromal, and theca cell tumors. Juvenile granulosa cell tumors (JGCT) are the most common ovarian tumors. Typically, these tumors present with rapidly progressive isosexual precocity ( 269 ). Most JGCT are large enough to be palpated during an examination and are typically limited to the ovary at the time of diagnosis. Circulating estradiol concentrations may be extremely elevated with suppressed gonadotropin concentrations. Circulating tumor markers including α-fetoprotein (AFP), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), β-human chorionic gonadotropin (β-hCG), cancer antigen 125 (CA-125), and inhibin B can be identified. Genetic somatic variants have been identified in juvenile granulosa cell tumors. Over 60% of JGCT carry in frame duplications in the AKT1 gene; this gene codes for a kinase involved in ovarian mitogenic signaling ( 270 ). Other identified variants include KMT2C -truncating and the ribonuclease III domain of DICER1 variants. In contrast to adult granulosa cell tumors of the ovary, variants in the FOXL2 gene are generally not found in JGCT. Ollier and Maffucci syndromes, rare disorders associated with benign cartilaginous enchondroma, have been associated with JGCT ( 271 ). Surgical excision with peritoneal cytology for staging is the primary treatment. Rarely, other tumors including gonadoblastoma, lipid tumors, cystadenomas, and ovarian carcinomas can secrete sex steroids. Finding elevated serum inhibin and AMH concentrations suggest that the tumor cells are derived from granulosa or Sertoli cells. Sex cord tumors with annular tubules can occur in patients with Peutz-Jeghers Syndrome. Peutz-Jeghers Syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder associated with mucocutaneous pigmentation, gastrointestinal polyposis, and genetic variants in the STK11 gene located at chromosome 19p13.3. ( 272 ) The gonadal tumors can be multi-focal, bilateral, and can differentiate into granulosa cell or large cell calcifying Sertoli cell tumors with the potential to secrete estrogen. Thus, girls may present with precocious puberty whereas boys may present with gynecomastia. Sertoli-Leydig cell tumors are rare ovarian tumors often associated with somatic or germline DICER1 variants ( 273 ). Most are unilateral, but bilateral tumors have been described. These tumors contain testicular structures, Sertoli and Leydig cells, and can rarely secrete androgens. Hence, girls can virilize with pubic hair development ( 274 , 275 ). Girls known to carry germline DICER1 variants should
