Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


Sertoli and Leydig cells, and can rarely secrete androgens. Hence, girls can virilize with pubic hair development ( 274 , 275 ). Girls known to carry germline DICER1 variants should undergo regular pelvic ultrasounds to screen for ovarian tumors ( 276 ). LEYDIG CELL TUMORS Leydig cell tumors are a subtype of testicular stromal tumors that arise from testosterone producing Leydig cells. In prepubertal boys, presenting features include penile enlargement, acne, development of pubic and axillary hair, and accelerated linear growth velocity. Examination of the testes typically show asymmetric testicular volume due to a unilateral testicular tumor. Leydig cell tumors are usually benign. Bloodwork shows elevated circulating testosterone concentrations and suppressed gonadotropin concentrations. Ultrasound is useful to assess testicular volume and morphology. Treatment involves surgical removal of the tumor. When possible, testis-sparing enucleation is preferred to radical orchiectomy to preserve testicular function and fertility. The surgical approach is dictated by the intraoperative assessment of tumor size, location, and the amount of remaining normal testicular parenchyma ( 277 , 278 ). HUMAN CHORIONIC GONADOTROPIN SECRETING GERM CELL TUMORS During early gestation, primordial germ cells migrate from the hindgut to the gonads. In some instances, the germ cells can migrate to locations outside of the gonad, fail to undergo apoptosis, proliferate in these atypical locations, and ultimately become hCG-secreting germ cell tumors ( 279 ). Common locations for germ cell tumors include the CNS, lung, or liver ( 280 ). Boys and men with Klinefelter syndrome are at higher risk to develop extra-gonadal GCTs particularly in the mediastinum ( 281 ). In addition, hepatoblastoma secreting hCG and α-fetoprotein can also present with precocious puberty ( 282 ). Due to the similarity between hCG and LH which have identical α-subunits and related β-subunits, tumor-derived hCG stimulates testicular LH receptors resulting in testosterone secretion. In the prepubertal boy, the aberrant hormone exposure can result in precocious puberty ( 27 , 28 ). Testicular volume may not increase since seminiferous tubule growth does not occur in the absence of FSH stimulation. Bloodwork shows elevated hCG and testosterone concentrations with suppressed/variable LH and FSH concentrations. Prepubertal girls generally do not develop isosexual precocious puberty with hCG-secreting germ cell tumors because in the absence of FSH, the granulosa cells do not express aromatase and are unable to synthesize estradiol. GERM CELL TUMORS Chromosomal aneuploidy or genetic variants can interfere with gonadal development resulting in dysgenetic gonads. In
