Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


granulosa cells do not express aromatase and are unable to synthesize estradiol. GERM CELL TUMORS Chromosomal aneuploidy or genetic variants can interfere with gonadal development resulting in dysgenetic gonads. In this situation, the appropriate microenvironment for normal germ cell maturation is absent, thereby disrupting the normal maturational progression for germ cells. This situation may result in the development of gonadal germ cell tumors. Precursor lesions of germ cell tumors include germ cell neoplasia in situ (GCNIS, formerly termed carcinoma in situ – CIS) and gonadoblastoma ( 283 ). Subsequently, dysgerminoma, seminoma, or non-seminoma may develop. Usually, such germ cell tumors do not secrete significant amounts of sex steroids. FAMILIAL MALE LIMITED PRECOCIOUS PUBERTY (FMPP) Familial male-limited precocious puberty (also known as testotoxicosis) is due to an autosomal dominant activating germline variant in the LH/choriogonadotropin receptor ( LHCGR ) gene located at chromosome 2p21. The LH/CG receptor is a G-protein coupled receptor ( 284 ). The variant is associated with autonomous ligand-independent receptor signaling leading to Leydig cell hyperplasia and premature testosterone secretion in prepubertal boys. Pathogenic missense variants associated with FMPP tend to congregate in an apparent hot spot located in the 6 th transmembrane segment and in the 3 rd intracellular loop ( 285 ). Affected males typically present between two to six years of age with penile enlargement, linear growth acceleration, advanced skeletal maturation, acne, and pubarche. The testes are usually symmetrically enlarged due to the Leydig cell hyperplasia, but the size is disproportionately smaller compared to the testosterone levels ( 286 , 287 ). A large portion of the testicular volume is formed by Sertoli cells which are not stimulated in this condition ( 286 , 287 ). Circulating testosterone concentrations are elevated with suppressed gonadotropin concentrations. Although adult height is generally compromised, fertility has been reported ( 288 ). Longitudinal follow-up with testicular self-examination and scrotal ultrasound is recommended because malignant testicular germ cell tumors have been described in a few individuals ( 289 ). Therapeutic goals include decreasing autonomous testicular testosterone secretion and slowing epiphyseal maturation. To date, several medications including ketoconazole, spironolactone, bicalutamide, and aromatase inhibitors have been used with varying efficacy ( 286 ). To date, the most effective therapy is combination treatment with an anti-androgen and an aromatase inhibitor ( 290 , 291 ). If secondary GnRH-dependent precocious puberty develops, GnRH agonist therapy can be added to the therapeutic regimen. Abiraterone, a
