Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


with an anti-androgen and an aromatase inhibitor ( 290 , 291 ). If secondary GnRH-dependent precocious puberty develops, GnRH agonist therapy can be added to the therapeutic regimen. Abiraterone, a selective CYP17A1 inhibitor, was utilized in a young boy with bilateral Leydig cell tumors and resistance to the usual combination regimen of an anti-androgen and aromatase inhibitor. He required glucocorticoid replacement therapy and monitoring for possible excessive mineralocorticoid action because of abiraterone treatment-associated iatrogenic 17-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency ( 292 ). Although inherited as an autosomal dominant disorder, girls do not develop precocious puberty ( 293 ). Since only the LHCGR gene is affected, the presumably minimally increased theca cell androgens cannot be aromatized to estradiol in the absence of FSH stimulation. Importantly, asymptomatic women can transmit the affected allele to their sons. PRIMARY HYPOTHYROIDISM Children with profound chronic primary hypothyroidism may present with precocious puberty. Van Wyk and Grumbach described this association in 1960 ( 294 ). Clinical features in girls include early breast development, vaginal bleeding, and galactorrhea. Boys present with testicular enlargement. Pubic and axillary hair are absent. Typical features associated with hypothyroidism such as short stature, impaired linear growth, puffy face, dry skin, constipation, and delayed skeletal maturation (despite pubertal changes) are usually evident. Pituitary imaging shows an enlarged pituitary gland. Abdominal ultrasound may show ovarian enlargement with or without ovarian cysts. Labs show mild elevation in FSH levels but LH levels usually remain prepubertal. Levothyroxine therapy induces regression of pubertal symptoms, stops vaginal bleeding, and decreases pituitary volume. However, final height may often be compromised due to accelerated skeletal maturation upon initiation of thyroxine treatment. One potential mechanism for the precocious puberty is cross-reactivity of TSH at the ovarian FSH receptor. TSH and FSH share a common α-subunit with hormone specificity due to the differing β-subunits ( 295 ). This mechanism was tested using recombinant human TSH in an in vitro bioassay which, at high concentrations, was able to stimulate human FSH receptors ( 296 , 297 , 298 , 299 ). VIRILIIZING CONGENITAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIAS The virilizing congenital adrenal hyperplasias (CAHs) are autosomal recessive disorders associated with impaired adrenal steroidogenesis due to genetic variants in steroidogenic enzyme genes. The most common is 21-hydroxylase deficiency due to variants in the 21-hydroxylase gene ( CYP21A2 ) located at chromosome 6p21.33. Clinically, congenital adrenal hyperplasias reflect a phenotypic spectrum ranging from presentation in neonatal period with classic salt-losing CAH
