Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


variants in the 21-hydroxylase gene ( CYP21A2 ) located at chromosome 6p21.33. Clinically, congenital adrenal hyperplasias reflect a phenotypic spectrum ranging from presentation in neonatal period with classic salt-losing CAH to presentation during infancy/todder age with classic simple virilizing CAH to later presentations with non-classic CAH. Milder or non-classic forms have been described for 11-β-hydroxylase deficiency and 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency ( 300 ). Children with non-classic CAH typically present with premature pubarche characterized by pubic/axillary hair development, acne, accelerated linear growth velocity, and advanced skeletal maturation. Girls may have clitoromegaly whereas boys may have phallic enlargement with prepubertal testicular volume. Adult women with non-classic CAH usually present with irregular menses, hirsutism, and infertility. The diagnostic test for 21-hydroxylase deficiency is an elevated 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP) concentration. Early morning basal 17-OHP values have been suggested as an effective screening test with reports of 100% sensitivity and 99% specificity with a threshold value of 200 ng/dl (6 nmol/L) to diagnose NCAH in children who present with premature pubarche ( 301 ). If the diagnosis is highly suspected despite relatively normal 17-OHP concentrations, an ACTH stimulation test may be indicated to exclude the diagnosis of 21-hydroxylase deficiency. For an ACTH stimulation test, following collection of a basal blood sample, 0.25 mg synthetic ACTH (Cortrosyn) is administered by intravenous or intramuscular routes; a second blood sample is collected at 30 and/or 60 minutes. Physician preference governs the timing of the ACTH-stimulated 17-OHP concentration. In the future, 21-deoxycortisol and 11-oxyandrogens may be increasingly utilized in the diagnosis and management of 21-hydroxylase deficiency ( 302 , 303 ). The reader is referred to more extensive discussion of the virilizing CAH ( 304 , 305 ). ADRENOCORTICAL TUMORS Androgen-secreting adrenocortical tumors are extremely rare causes of PPP accounting for less than 1% of all childhood malignancies. Most tumors occur in children younger than 4 years of age with a second smaller peak in adolescents. Pediatric adrenocortical tumors are categorized as adenomas or carcinomas based on histological features. However, histopathologic differentiation may be challenging, and biologic behavior of the tumor may help with this categorization ( 306 ). Pediatric adrenocortical carcinoma is more common in girls than boys and has a bimodal pattern with peaks under age 5 and over 10 years of age ( 307 ). Adrenocortical tumors are associated with several genetic syndromes such as Li-Fraumeni syndrome and Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS). Li-Fraumeni Syndrome is an autosomal dominant
