Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


over 10 years of age ( 307 ). Adrenocortical tumors are associated with several genetic syndromes such as Li-Fraumeni syndrome and Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS). Li-Fraumeni Syndrome is an autosomal dominant familial cancer syndrome associated with germline p53 gene variants. The p53 gene (or TP53 gene) is a tumor suppressor gene located at chromosome 17p13.1, and codes for the protein p53. Malignancies associated with Li-Fraumeni syndrome include adrenocortical carcinomas, breast cancer, brain tumors, and sarcoma. The incidence of adrenocortical tumors is 10-15 times higher in southern Brazil; this has been attributed to the higher prevalence of the R337H variant of the TP53 gene ( 308 ). Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome is characterized by macroglossia, macrosomia, organomegaly, neonatal hypoglycemia due to hyperinsulinism, and abdominal wall defects. This disorder is associated with uniparental disomy in the 11p15 chromosomal region leading to IGF2 growth factor overexpression. Although only 1% of children with Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome will develop adrenocortical carcinomas, these adrenal tumors account for approximately 20% of the neoplasms in children with this disorder ( 309 ). Other disorders associated with adrenal tumors include Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Syndrome Type 1 (MEN1) and Carney complex ( 310 ). The next section reviews variants of puberty associated with early pubertal changes and are important differentials to consider in the evaluation of CPP. PREMATURE THELARCHE Premature thelarche is the premature development of glandular breast development. The breast development may be unilateral or bilateral. Typically, premature thelarche develops in otherwise healthy girls between 12-24 months of age and is self-limited. No other pubertal changes are evident; linear growth velocity is normal and pubic/axillary hair are absent. On physical examination, the areolae and vaginal mucosa are prepubertal. The diagnosis can usually be made on a clinical basis without bloodwork or bone age X-rays ( 311 ). Pelvic ultrasound showed increased prevalence of ovarian microcysts in girls with premature thelarche compared to age-matched controls; no correlation between ovarian cysts, gonadotropin concentrations, and estradiol concentrations has been found ( 312 ). Longitudinal follow-up is appropriate to confirm the diagnosis and assess for the unlikely possibility of progression to CPP. PREMATURE ADRENARCHE Pubarche refers to the appearance of pubic/axillary hair, increased apocrine odor, and acne due to the onset of adrenarche. Adrenarche refers to the pubertal maturation of the adrenal zona reticularis. Adrenarche which normally occurs in children between 6-8 years of age and is characterized by increased secretion of the adrenal androgen precursors DHEA,
