Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


pubertal maturation of the adrenal zona reticularis. Adrenarche which normally occurs in children between 6-8 years of age and is characterized by increased secretion of the adrenal androgen precursors DHEA, DHEAS, and androstenedione. Premature adrenarche is characterized by premature pubarche, which is defined as the development of pubic or axillary hair before 8 years in girls or 9 years in boys. There is no breast development in females and no testicular enlargement in males. Bone age is usually not advanced. Premature adrenarche is a diagnosis of exclusion. Thus, exclusion of other disorders such as CAH, androgen-secreting tumors, exogenous androgen exposures, and other rare genetic disorders such as apparent cortisone reductase and PAPS synthase 2 (PAPSS2) deficiencies is essential ( 313 ). Children with premature adrenarche and early androgen excess may be at a higher risk to develop the metabolic syndrome. Waist circumference (WC), waist/hip ratio, and total and truncal fat mass increase are detected in premature adrenarche. Increases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure (BP), total cholesterol (TC), very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), TC/high density lipoprotein (HDL), low density lipoprotein (LDL)/HDL ratio, and atherogenic index (AI) have been reported. Increased insulin concentrations starting from prepubertal ages may occur suggesting that premature adrenarche may be one of the first symptom of insulin resistance (IR) in childhood ( 314 , 315 ). T2DM may occur in a subset of these cases. Ovarian hyperandrogenism, hirsutism, ovulatory dysfunction, and polycystic ovaries may be more frequent in girls with premature adrenarche during post pubertal ages than normal population. Although, early retrospective data in a homogenous population suggests an association between premature adrenarche and adolescent hyperandrogenism ( 316 ), more recent longitudinal data suggests that premature adrenarche was not associated with adolescent ovarian dysfunction and was only associated with lower SHBG concentrations ( 317 ). EXPOSURE TO EXOGENOUS SEX STERIODS Feminization, including gynecomastia in males, has been attributed to excess estrogen exposure from creams, ointments, and sprays. Other possible sources of estrogen exposure include contamination of food with hormones, phytoestrogens (e.g., in soy), and over-the-counter remedies such as lavender oil and tea tree oil ( 318 , 319 , 320 , 321 ). Similarly, virilization of young children has been described following inadvertent exposure to androgen-containing creams/gels ( 322 ). Endocrine-Disrupting Chemicals Various endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) are found in the environment ( 323 , 324 , 325 , 326 ). Most EDCs have chemical structures similar to
