Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


( 322 ). Endocrine-Disrupting Chemicals Various endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) are found in the environment ( 323 , 324 , 325 , 326 ). Most EDCs have chemical structures similar to those of endogenous sex steroids. These chemicals can disrupt steroid hormone receptor binding and hormone metabolism altering hormone concentrations or changing hormone synthesis/degradation ( 327 ). EDCs can act beyond steroid hormone receptors by affecting transcriptional modulators and direct effects on genes. Some EDCs have mixed activities, and most EDCs include several different chemicals. The patient’s age and duration of exposure modulate the consequences of EDC exposure. In addition, EDCs can be classified as persistent (long-lasting) or non-persistent (short half-lives). Environmental EDC exposures can be transgenerational such that future generations could be affected ( 328 ). Mechanisms for EDC exposures include ingestion, topical use, inhalation, and transfer across the placenta ( 329 ). The consequences of mixed “cocktail” EDC exposures on pubertal development are indeterminate. A systematic review with a stringent meta-analysis found no consistent association between xenobiotic EDCs and pubertal timing apart from an insinuation that, in girls, postnatal exposure to phthalates could be associated with earlier thelarche and later pubarche, consistent with their anti-androgenic properties. Methodological heterogeneity, limited number of studies, and variability in statistical analyses constrained the conclusions of this systematic review. Hence, future longitudinal epidemiologic studies to clarify the specific EDCs, age at exposure, and duration of exposure will be valuable ( 327 , 330 ). DELAYED PUBERTY Gonadarche associated with the reactivation of the GnRH pulse generator, is signified by breast development in girls and testicular enlargement in boys. Delayed puberty is defined as absence or delayed onset of gonadarche at a chronologic age >2 standard deviations later than the population mean. In girls, delayed puberty is defined as absence of breast development by age 13 years or lack of menarche by age 15 years ( 331 ) or 3 years from onset of thelarche ( 332 ). In boys, delayed puberty is defined as the lack of testicular enlargement to a volume >= 4 ml by age 14 years ( 333 ). Delayed puberty is more common in boys than in girls. Four main categories of delayed puberty have been described (See Table 4 ). transient hypogonadotropic hypogonadism associated with delayed maturation of the HPG axis also known as constitutional delay of growth and puberty (CDGP) hypergonadotropic hypogonadism characterized by primary gonadal dysfunction with
