Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


hypogonadism (CHH) may be challenging because these conditions share clinical features, hormone levels, and radiological findings. Inhibin B and LH levels tend to be lower in boys with CDGP, but the overlap in values precludes the use of these hormones to distinguish between CDGP and CHH. For boys, 3-4 months of steroid priming with testosterone followed by 3-4 months of observation is commonly used to discriminate CHH from CDGP ( 336 ). It has been suggested that this sex steroid exposure stimulates resumption of the HPG axis activity leading to secondary sex characteristics typical of male puberty ( 337 ). Individuals who show no pubertal progression during the observation period should be evaluated for CHH or another disorder affecting the HPG axis. Estradiol priming has been used similarly in girls to distinguish CHH from CDGP ( 338 ). Due to the differences in the long-term outcomes, accurate diagnosis is essential, with CDGP being largely a diagnosis of exclusion ( 339 ). CDGP occurs more commonly in family members of individuals with CHH compared to the general population ( 340 ). Individuals with CDGP appear to have higher prevalence of pathogenic variants compared to unaffected family members or controls ( 341 ). Some genetic variants have been detected in both individuals with CDGP and CHH; these genes include HS6ST1 , PROKR2 , TAC3, TAC3R, and IL17RD ( 342 ). Genetic variants associated primarily with CDGP include IGFS10, EAP1, and FTO ( 338 ). Hypergonadotropic Hypogonadism Pubertal delay associated with hypergonadotropic hypogonadism is usually associated with disorders affecting gonadal function, specifically gonadal steroidogenesis. With the onset of gonadarche and increased GnRH and gonadotropin secretion, inadequate gonadal steroid secretion and lack of negative feedback leads to increasing gonadotropin secretion. These conditions may be present at birth or acquired. TURNER SYNDROME Turner Syndrome refers to deletions or structural rearrangements of the X chromosome. The reported incidence is around 1 in 2500 liveborn female births ( 343 ). The initial in utero process of ovarian differentiation proceeds normally with migration of the primordial germ cells into the developing ovary during the fourth week of gestation. By 18 weeks of gestation, premature degeneration of ovarian follicles has begun. The ovarian follicles are typically replaced by connective tissue resulting in the characteristic streak gonad. This accelerated follicular atresia usually leads to premature ovarian insufficiency. Girls with Turner syndrome have gonadal dysgenesis or “streak gonads” in 85% of
