Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


tissue resulting in the characteristic streak gonad. This accelerated follicular atresia usually leads to premature ovarian insufficiency. Girls with Turner syndrome have gonadal dysgenesis or “streak gonads” in 85% of cases at birth. However, because adrenal androgen secretion is not impaired, the onset of pubarche usually occurs at a normal time. Typical clinical features of girls with Turner syndrome include short stature, short/webbed neck, shield shaped chest with the appearance of widely spaced nipples, cubitus valgus, and Madelung deformity of the forearm and wrist, shortened fourth metacarpals/metatarsals, horseshoe kidneys, coarctation of the aorta, increased risk for autoimmune conditions, and aberrant development of the lymphatic system. Many girls with Turner syndrome may remain undiagnosed until later in childhood or adolescence when they present with short stature and/or delayed puberty. With increased utilization of noninvasive prenatal screening (NIPS), many girls with Turner Syndrome are detected prenatally. The reader is referred to other publications for more extensive discussion regarding the features and approach to multidisciplinary health care management ( 344 , 345 , 346 ). KLINEFELTER SYNDROME Klinefelter Syndrome is a chromosomal aneuploidy characterized by 47, XXY karyotype and premature testicular insufficiency. Increased NIPS utilization has led to detection of many boys in utero and is estimated to occur in 1 in 667 males based on prenatal cytogenetic analysis ( 347 ). However, many men remain underdiagnosed, with less than 10% of patients being diagnosed prior to puberty. Men with Klinefelter syndrome typically present with tall stature, incomplete puberty, or gynecomastia. Generally, the onset of puberty is not delayed. Klinefelter syndrome is associated with small firm testes, Sertoli cell dysgenesis, impaired spermatogenesis, and variable degrees of testosterone deficiency ( 348 ). Learning disabilities, language and visuospatial processing defects, and neuropsychiatric conditions such as attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and depression are common ( 349 ). If a tumor is found in the anterior mediastinum, a karyotype should be performed to evaluate for Klinefelter syndrome because of its association with mediastinal germinoma ( 350 ). Despite normal BMI, the body fat percentage, and the ratio between android fat percentage and gynoid fat percentage are significantly higher than normal. They may also have an impaired bone metabolism starting during childhood and adolescence. Systematic studies are needed to evaluate whether testosterone replacement therapy during puberty will improve these parameters ( 351 ). The reader is referred to other publications for more extensive discussion regarding the features and approach to
