Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


whether testosterone replacement therapy during puberty will improve these parameters ( 351 ). The reader is referred to other publications for more extensive discussion regarding the features and approach to multidisciplinary health care management ( 352 , 353 , 354 , 355 , 356 ). DIFFERENCES OF SEX DEVELOPMENT Differences of sex development (DSDs) are a group of conditions where external genital development is atypical. These disorders are associated with chromosomal anomalies, genetic variants, and environmental influences ( 357 ). Gonadal function is impaired in some types of DSDs resulting in primary gonadal failure and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism. Detailed review of DSDs is beyond the scope of this chapter. The interested reader is referred to other Endotext chapters for more extensive review of DSDs. GENETIC CAUSES OF PREMATURE OVARIAN INSUFFICIENCY (POI) POI can present with primary or secondary amenorrhea. Fragile X-associated premature ovarian insufficiency is among a family of disorders caused by the expansion of a CGG trinucleotide repeat sequence located in the 5′ untranslated region (UTR) of the fragile X messenger ribonucleoprotein 1 (FMR1) gene on the X chromosome. One etiology is premutation of the FMR1 gene associated with 55-200 CGG repeats without abnormal methylation of the neighboring CpG island and promoter, responsible for both fragile X associated premature ovarian insufficiency in females and fragile X associated tremor ataxia syndrome in males and females where patients may present with mild to moderate intellectual disability, intentional tremor and cerebellar ataxia, peripheral neuropathy, Parkinsonism, and urinary and bowel incontinence. The X chromosome carries many genes that govern follicular maturation and overall ovarian function, and numerical and structural changes in this chromosome, as in Turner syndrome or triple X syndrome, are associated with POI. Multiple genes are involved in ovarian differentiation, oocyte development, and, ultimately, folliculogenesis and variants in these genes may be associated with premature ovarian insufficiency ( 358 , 359 ). The clinical phenotype ranges from delayed puberty to secondary amenorrhea ( 360 ). GALACTOSEMIA Galactosemia is a rare cause of delayed puberty. Classic galactosemia is a rare inborn error of galactose metabolism due to a defect in the gene encoding the galactose-1-phospate uridyltransferase enzyme ( GALT ). The prevalence is approximately 1/30,000–60,000 ( 361 ). Early manifestations include lactose intolerance, jaundice, failure to thrive, lethargy, hepatocellular damage, renal tubular disease, and cataracts. A galactose-free diet can reverse the neonatal symptoms. However, some long-term complications such as developmental delay, intellectual disability,
