Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


jaundice, failure to thrive, lethargy, hepatocellular damage, renal tubular disease, and cataracts. A galactose-free diet can reverse the neonatal symptoms. However, some long-term complications such as developmental delay, intellectual disability, epilepsy, osteoporosis, and premature ovarian insufficiency may still develop. In females, hypergonadotropic hypogonadism resulting in delayed puberty, primary or secondary amenorrhea, and infertility may occur ( 362 , 363 ). Available data from patients with classic galactosemia suggest that the primary ovarian insufficiency is due to dysregulation of pathways essential for folliculogenesis culminating in premature ovarian insufficiency ( 364 ). Several previous cohort studies in males showed delayed puberty and below-target final height ( 365 , 366 , 367 ), however a recent study with 47 males showed that puberty and fertility were normal and in contrast to earlier reports, AMH, testosterone and Inhibin B levels were normal ( 361 ). Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism Pubertal delay associated with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism is usually associated with disorders affecting the neurons that secrete GnRH or the pituitary gonadotrophs that secrete the FSH and LH. These conditions may be present at birth or acquired as described below. CONGENITAL HYPOGONADOTROPIC HYPOGONADISM The initiation and maintenance of reproductive capacity in humans depends on pulsatile GnRH secretion. Congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (CHH) results from the absence of the normal pulsatile GnRH secretion or deficient pituitary gonadotropin secretion leading to delayed puberty and infertility. The number of genetic loci associated with CHH continues to expand ( Table 4 ). CHH may be associated with variants in genes involved in the development or migration of GnRH neurons as well as genes involved in the secretion or action of GnRH ( 368 ). Autosomal recessive, autosomal dominant, X-linked, and oligogenic inheritance have been described ( 369 , 370 ). Additional genetic influences include epigenetic factors ( 371 ). Clinical heterogeneity has been described between and within families ( 372 ). Given the developmental origins of GnRH neurons in the olfactory placode, CHH can be associated with anosmia or hyposmia. The association of CHH and anosmia is known as Kallmann syndrome. Classic Kallmann syndrome is associated with variants in the ANOS1 gene which is mapped to the X chromosome. Other features of Kallmann syndrome due to ANOS1 variants include unilateral renal agenesis, sensorineural hearing loss, dental agenesis, synkinesia (alternating mirror movements), and cleft lip/palate ( 373 ). In syndromic CHH, associated clinical features may help identify the possible gene(s). For example, clinical features
