Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


are associated with primary gonadal insufficiency. These conditions include auto-immune disorders, trauma, neoplasia, vascular events, and infection. Autoimmune disorders can be associated with premature ovarian and testicular insufficiency. Biallelic mutations in the autoimmune regulator ( AIRE ) gene are associated with autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 1 which is also known as autoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy. Associated features include mucocutaneous candidiasis, hypoparathyroidism, and adrenal insufficiency ( 375 ). The detection of autoantibodies directed against tissue-specific antigens suggests an autoimmune diagnosis. Antineoplastic chemotherapy with alkylating agents, as well as localized ionizing radiation, may permanently damage germ cells leading to infertility. In males, Sertoli cells are more susceptible to such toxicity than Leydig cells such that testosterone production may remain intact despite Sertoli and germ cell injury. Mumps orchitis should be considered, especially in unvaccinated males. Decreased blood flow to the gonads from surgical injury (e.g., orchiopexy in boys), torsion, or trauma can lead to ischemia and atrophy, with resultant primary testicular insufficiency. The presence of otherwise normal male external genitalia associated with nonpalpable gonads indicates that the testes were present and functioning at least early in gestation. The “vanishing testes syndrome” also known as testicular regression is associated with atrophy or regression of testicular tissue initially formed during early embryonic development. Potential etiologies of the testicular regression include in utero vascular disruption or testicular torsion. Pathogenic variants of the DEAH-box RNA helicase DHX37 ( DHX37 ) gene have been identified in boys with testicular regression and in association with gonadal dysgenesis ( 376 ). In addition to autoimmune etiologies, premature ovarian insufficiency can be associated with ovarian/pelvic tumors, chemotherapy, especially alkylating agents, and radiation therapy. The location of the pelvic tumor and treatments influence the ovarian reserve and risk for premature ovarian insufficiency. Low or declining serum AMH levels provide an indirect measure of ovarian reserve. However, due to much variability and lack of diagnostic thresholds, measuring AMH values does not accurately predict ovarian insufficiency in cancer survivors ( 377 ). Acquired hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH) can be due to central nervous system tumors such as craniopharyngiomas and germ cell tumors. Such tumors can disrupt the hypothalamic-pituitary stalk or can impact pituitary function producing decreased gonadotropin production. Hyperprolactinemia due to prolactin-secreting adenomas can cause acquired HH ( 378 ). Other central nervous system disorders associated with acquired HH include hypophysitis, histiocytosis, and hemochromatosis. Intracranial surgeries and/or cranial radiation therapy greater than 30 Gy are
