Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


acquired HH ( 378 ). Other central nervous system disorders associated with acquired HH include hypophysitis, histiocytosis, and hemochromatosis. Intracranial surgeries and/or cranial radiation therapy greater than 30 Gy are known risk factors for HH. Moderate to severe trauma to the brain is associated with injuries to the hypothalamus, stalk (infundibulum), or pituitary gland itself; the consequences of traumatic brain injury may not manifest for many years. Chronic steroid treatment can be associated with acquired HH in boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy ( 379 , 380 ). Inflammatory and infiltrative diseases of the pituitary gland are other rare causes of acquired HH. FUNCTIONAL HYPOGONADOTROPIC HYPOGONADISM Functional HH is the hypothalamic response to intense physical or emotional stress, caloric deficit, or chronic systemic illness ( 381 ). In this situation, the otherwise normal HPG axis fails to function due to the concomitant stress. Puberty can be delayed or stalled until the underlying condition has been adequately addressed. The finding of hypercortisolemia in women with functional HH associated with restrictive eating disorders highlights the relevance of HPA axis function in FHH ( 382 ). Importantly, functional HH can have long lasting adverse consequences on bone health ( 383 ). The hypothalamus receives numerous inputs regarding body energy status and subsequently modulates reproductive status based on this information. Hence, nutritional status and energy output influence HPG axis activity in part via leptin signaling which regulates the sensitivity of the pituitary to GnRH ( 384 ). Energy deficits may occur due to weight loss, excessive energy expenditure (rigorous physical activity, renal disease, cystic fibrosis, congenital heart disease), decreased caloric intake or malabsorption (disordered eating behaviors, bowel disorders such as celiac, Crohn’s, and ulcerative colitis) are associated with delayed or stalled puberty and functional hypothalamic amenorrhea ( 385 , 386 , 387 ). Elevated circulating levels of cytokines (as seen in some acute or inflammatory conditions) may also inhibit the HPG axis. Elevated prolactin levels, due to prolactinoma or severe primary hypothyroidism may inhibit gonadotropin release. Some boys with obesity have low gonadotropin and testosterone levels and manifest delayed puberty ( 388 ). It is important to recognize that certain medications such as antipsychotics (typical and atypical), certain antidepressants, and opioids can alter menses ( 364 ). Treatment of Delayed Puberty A variety of therapeutic regimens for pubertal induction have been described for both boys and girls. However, large, randomized trials providing evidence-based data regarding
