Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


364 ). Treatment of Delayed Puberty A variety of therapeutic regimens for pubertal induction have been described for both boys and girls. However, large, randomized trials providing evidence-based data regarding the optimum regimen are lacking ( 389 ). Sex steroid replacement therapy remains a mainstay of treatment. The type and route of administration of the sex steroids is dependent on patient preference, insurance coverage, and health care provider practices. Importantly, the specific treatment regimen depends on the underlying etiology of the pubertal delay. Future novel therapies could include kisspeptin and neurokinin B analogs ( 390 ). BOYS Pulsatile GnRH therapy is the most physiological method and can induce adult secondary sex characteristics, achieving normal adult testosterone concentrations, and spermatogenesis ( 370 ) in boys with HH. However, the inconvenience of wearing a mini-pump and conflicting outcome data limits its usefulness. Other approaches include hCG, FSH, hMG, and/or GnRH treatments. Despite much heterogeneity, a systematic study reported that treatment with hCG and FSH induced greater increase in testicular volume and rate of spermatogenesis compared to hCG alone ( 391 )370). Importantly, available limited data suggest that testosterone administration prior to gonadotropin treatments does not interfere with the beneficial effects on testicular growth and spermatogenesis. Based on the physiologic roles of LH and FSH, pubertal induction should begin with FSH to promote testicular maturation followed by combined FSH and hCG treatment. The subsequent hCG treatment will promote testicular testosterone secretion leading to virilization, growth spurt, and psychosocial development. Still, at the present time, testosterone is the most established treatment for pubertal induction in boys with delayed puberty. Traditionally, IM testosterone esters, primarily testosterone enanthate or testosterone cypionate, have been used. A subcutaneous testosterone enanthate auto-injector has recently been approved, but this approach requires more weekly injections and is more expensive. However, no evidence-based guidelines exist for testosterone-induced pubertal initiation. Potential adverse consequences of testosterone therapy include erythrocytosis, premature epiphyseal closure especially with excessive doses which may result in aggressive behavior, mood swings, and priapism. Other testosterone formulations include testosterone gels, pills, and pellets. Limitations of testosterone gels include difficulties in accurately titrating low doses, potential testosterone exposure to household members, and the cost. Oral methyltestosterone and its 17α-derivatives have been associated with hepatic dysfunction and should be avoided. Oral testosterone undecanoate was approved by the FDA in 2019 to treat hypogonadal adult men. However, due to its short half-life, multiple daily doses
