Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


hepatic dysfunction and should be avoided. Oral testosterone undecanoate was approved by the FDA in 2019 to treat hypogonadal adult men. However, due to its short half-life, multiple daily doses are necessary, and no data are available regarding use for puberty induction. Testosterone pellets require surgical placement every 3-4 months, are expensive, and often spontaneously extrude ( 392 ). For the younger adolescent boy with a strong family history of CDGP, reassurance and continued clinical monitoring may be adequate. However, discerning CDGP from CHH is essential because the treatment, genetics, and psychosocial implications differ. Hence, low dose testosterone for 3-4 months followed by a similar period of observation may be helpful to distinguish CDGP from CHH. Individuals with CHH will show persistently low gonadotropin and sex steroid hormone levels after the 3–4-month period of observation whereas individuals with CDGP will usually show spontaneous pubertal progression. Curiously, testosterone exposure apparently activates GnRH production and secretion leading to “reversal” with onset of HPG axis activity in some boys with CHH. This reversal is associated with specific genetic variants and may be transient ( 393 , 394 ). GIRLS Timely induction of pubertal development is fundamental. Two major goals of estrogen therapy are mimicking typical pubertal progression with breast development and promoting adequate uterine growth ( 395 ). Although pulsatile GnRH treatment can be used, this approach has no advantage over estrogen for pubertal induction in girls. Though all therapeutic approaches utilize estrogens, details regarding specific formulations and methods of administration vary. Transdermal estradiol is preferred for replacement therapy because this approach avoids the first pass through the liver and the potential for adverse effects on clotting factors. Typically, low transdermal estradiol doses are used for the initial phase of pubertal induction. Transdermal estradiol doses of 3-7 mcg/day can be achieved by cutting matrix patches (0.014-0.025 mg/24 h) into quarters or eighths. Subsequently, the dose can be increased approximately every six months until adult replacement dosage is achieved taking about 24-36 months to do so. High initial estrogen doses should be avoided due to increased likelihood for atypical breast development characterized by prominent nipples with little supporting breast tissue. High estrogen doses should also be avoided as premature epiphyseal fusion could impair additional linear growth. Oral micronized 17β-estradiol can be used for those with severe skin irritation or aversion to the use of a patch. Oral preparations containing conjugated equine estrogens or ethinyl
