Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


linear growth. Oral micronized 17β-estradiol can be used for those with severe skin irritation or aversion to the use of a patch. Oral preparations containing conjugated equine estrogens or ethinyl estradiol should be avoided for both pubertal induction and maintenance therapy. Most combined oral contraceptives contain ethinyl estradiol at doses higher than appropriate for induction of puberty. Approximately 18-24 months after initiation of unopposed estrogen therapy, progestogens can be added to induce withdrawal bleeding and to reduce the risk for endometrial hyperplasia. Progestogens can be introduced earlier if breakthrough vaginal bleeding occurs. Pelvic ultrasounds before and during pubertal induction can be planned to assess uterine size and shape as well as to evaluate endometrial thickness to ascertain optimal timing to introduce progestins. Progestins vary in potency and can be administered by transdermal, oral, or uterine routes. Although increased potency may have beneficial effects on withdrawal bleeding, greater progestogenic side effects may develop. No evidence-based data exist, and no single regimen has been demonstrated to be superior. Pubertal induction therapy should be individualized based on clinical response and other auxologic parameters. Oral contraceptive pills may be used for convenience but should be limited to after completion of pubertal development. Since some girls may experience sporadic ovulation, contraception should be utilized by those at risk of undesired pregnancies. EVALUATION OF A CHILD WITH A VARIATION IN PUBERTAL DEVELOPMENT The diagnostic tools are comparable for the evaluation of either precocious or delayed puberty. Detailed medical history and physical examination provide the preliminary information to guide the differential diagnosis for a child with a variation in pubertal development ( 165 , 396 ) (see Figures 5 - 8 ). Laboratory, imaging, and genetic studies are subsequently utilized to ascertain the specific diagnosis. The tools for evaluation of a child with a variation in pubertal development are described below. The tools are comparable, but the interpretation of test results differs for precocious and delayed puberty. Figure 5. Algorithm to evaluate a girl presenting with precocious puberty. *follow clinical progression every 3-6 months. FSH: Follicle Stimulating Hormone; LH: Luteinizing Hormone; CAH: Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia; ACTH: Adrenocorticotrophic Hormone; GnRH: Gonadotropin Releasing Hormone; DHEAS: Dehydroepiandrosterone Sulfate; 17OHP: 17-hydroxy progesterone; NF-1: Neurofibromatosis-1. Figure 6. Algorithm to evaluate a boy presenting with precocious puberty. FSH: Follicle Stimulating Hormone; LH: Luteinizing Hormone; MRI: Magnetic Resonance Imaging. Figure 7. Algorithm to evaluate a girl presenting with delayed puberty. FSH: Follicle Stimulating Hormone;
