Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


presenting with precocious puberty. FSH: Follicle Stimulating Hormone; LH: Luteinizing Hormone; MRI: Magnetic Resonance Imaging. Figure 7. Algorithm to evaluate a girl presenting with delayed puberty. FSH: Follicle Stimulating Hormone; LH: Luteinizing Hormone; CDGP: Constitutional Delay in Growth and Puberty; CHH: Congenital Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism; MRI: Magnetic Resonance Imaging. Figure 8. Algorithm to evaluate a boy presenting with delayed puberty. FSH: Follicle Stimulating Hormone; LH: Luteinizing Hormone; CDGP: Constitutional Delay in Growth and Puberty; CHH: Congenital Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism; MRI: Magnetic Resonance Imaging. History and Physical Examination The medical history focuses on the timing and sequence of the pubertal changes in the patient as well as parents, grandparents, and siblings. Review of past medical history and medications (including chemotherapy and nutritional supplements) is essential. Inquiry regarding exposures (tea tree/lavender oils, sex steroids, radiation) may help to identify potential environmental factors ( 162 ). Obtaining birth history, length and weight, history of SGA ( 397 ), prematurity, or CNS insult at birth or later provide relevant information ( 162 ). A history of gelastic seizures may point to a hypothalamic hamartoma. Inquiry regarding use of transdermal testosterone by a family member may identify the cause of premature virilization. Pubertal delay associated with micropenis, anosmia, cryptorchidism, deafness, choanal atresia, hearing loss, and/or digital abnormalities suggests congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (CHH). A family history of anosmia, subfertility, and deafness should be sought for those with pubertal delay. Multiple syndromes are associated with CHH (see Table 3 ); suggestive features include absent/reduced sense of smell, choanal atresia, hearing loss, morbid obesity, visual impairment. Family history of precocious or delayed puberty in close relatives may be discovered ( 398 ). Behavioral difficulties or learning disabilities may be associated with specific syndromes such as Turner or Klinefelter syndromes. A complete physical examination including height, weight, arm span, and sitting height is essential. Review of the child’s growth curves provides valuable information regarding changes in linear growth and weight gain. Acceleration in linear growth and upward crossing of centiles may be seen in precocious puberty. A gradual downward crossing of centiles may be noted in constitutional delay in growth and puberty (CDGP) as linear growth slows compared to peers who are entering puberty ( 399 ). Pubic hair development (pubarche) may also be delayed in CDGP as opposed to CHH where adrenarche occurs at the normal age for population ( 372 ). Physical exam includes ascertainment of the sexual maturity
