Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


may also be delayed in CDGP as opposed to CHH where adrenarche occurs at the normal age for population ( 372 ). Physical exam includes ascertainment of the sexual maturity rating for breast, pubic hair, and testicular volume based on the scoring system derived by Tanner and colleagues ( Figure 1 ). Due to challenges in discriminating lipomastia from true glandular breast development, palpation of the breasts is important. Firm glandular tissue under the areolae is indicative of thelarche. Accurate measurement of testicular volume using an orchidometer is essential (see Figure 2 ). A testicular volume of ≤ 1.1 mL has a reported sensitivity and specificity of 100% and 91%, respectively, for CHH ( 400 ). The physical examination should assess for midline defects, dysmorphic features, visual field abnormalities, and features characteristic for specific syndrome. For example, short stature, cubitus valgus, low hair line, widely spaced nipples, and delayed puberty suggest Turner Syndrome. The physical examination needs to include palpation of the thyroid gland, skin examination for acne or café-au-lait macules (which would suggest neurofibromatosis or McCune-Albright syndrome) and a visual field exam. Melanocytic macules typical of Peutz-Jeghers syndrome could point to the presence of a sex cord tumor causing gonadotropin independent (peripheral) sexual precocity. Laboratory Evaluation Laboratory evaluation assists the diagnostic process to identify the etiology of “off-time puberty.” Circulating gonadotropin and sex steroid concentrations reflect HPG axis status ( 187 , 236 ). Most current gonadotropin assays are sandwich assays specific to the β-subunit. Ultrasensitive FSH and LH assays should be used when available. For LH, samples should preferably be obtained in the morning. The lower limit of detection for most ultrasensitive immunochemiluminescent assays (ICMA) is ≤0.1 mIU/mL ( 230 , 401 , 402 ). When the clinical concern is precocious puberty, LH concentrations greater than 0.3-0.5 mIU/mL suggest central precocious puberty (CPP) with higher cut-points increasing the sensitivity and specificity of the LH determination ( 403 ). Elevated basal LH levels show high sensitivity and specificity for boys when high quality immunochemiluminometric assays (ICMA) is used ( 404 ). Different cut-points need to be used to interpret LH concentrations in girls under two years of age because LH concentrations may be elevated at this age leading to misdiagnosis of CPP followed by inappropriate treatment during this phase of development ( 405 ). For the child with physical signs of premature puberty, LH concentrations in the prepubertal range
