Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


misdiagnosis of CPP followed by inappropriate treatment during this phase of development ( 405 ). For the child with physical signs of premature puberty, LH concentrations in the prepubertal range are consistent with either peripheral precocity or a benign pubertal variant such as premature thelarche. Typically, LH and FSH concentrations are suppressed in children with peripheral precocious puberty ( 406 ). In the evaluation for delayed puberty, low gonadotropin concentrations suggest a central etiology such as CDGP or hypogonadotropic hypogonadism while elevated gonadotropin concentrations suggest primary gonadal insufficiency. Random gonadotropin concentrations may provide only limited information because gonadotropin secretion is pulsatile. Distinguishing hypogonadotropic hypogonadism from CDGP is often challenging because LH, FSH and sex hormone reference intervals vary widely even in healthy adolescents ( 407 ). Similarly, due to significant overlap in hormone reference intervals, GnRH agonist and human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) stimulated gonadotropin ( 408 ) and sex steroid concentrations fail to distinguish youth with CHH from those with CDGP ( 407 , 409 ). Due to the small structural differences between steroid molecules, immunoassays are confounded by cross-reactivity issues. Assay issues are amplified in children because commercial immunoassays for estradiol and testosterone are usually designed to measure hormone concentrations within the normal adult reference interval. Hence, most estradiol immunoassays have low sensitivity and specificity to quantify the low concentrations (< 30 pg/ml) typically found in prepubertal children and individuals with hypogonadism. Similar issues occur with testosterone immunoassays. Hence, steroid hormone concentrations should be measured by liquid chromatographic separation followed by mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Serum testosterone is best measured using LC-MS/MS technology to limit cross-reactivity and increase sensitivity and specificity especially when low hormone concentrations might be anticipated. LC-MS/MS is also the optimal technique to measure circulating concentrations of other steroids including 17-hydroxyprogesterone, DHEA, androstenedione, and the 11-oxy androgens. It offers greater sensitivity and specificity and allows simultaneous measurement of multiple hormone concentrations ( 410 ). Sex steroids such as estradiol and testosterone circulate bound to sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG). Tissue availability of the free hormone, presumed to be the active moiety, is regulated by SHBG. Direct free testosterone concentrations should be avoided because direct immunoassays have poor reproducibility and reliability. When free testosterone concentrations need to be determined, equilibrium dialysis should be performed despite known potential limitations including increased expense, reliance on total testosterone accuracy, temperature control, and sample dilution ( 411 ). Another confounding factor is
