Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


determined, equilibrium dialysis should be performed despite known potential limitations including increased expense, reliance on total testosterone accuracy, temperature control, and sample dilution ( 411 ). Another confounding factor is biotin (vitamin B7) which is an over-the counter supplement by itself or as an addition to many preparations used to strengthen nails and hair. Biotin interferes with the technical aspects of immunoassays and can lead to either falsely elevated or falsely low result when streptavidin binding is utilized in the assay detection system. When immunoassay results seem incongruous, use of biotin-containing products should be queried. Biotin does not interfere with LC-MS/MS assays ( 412 ). GnRH or GnRH AGONIST STIMULATION TEST Historically, the established gold standard to diagnosis CPP was the LH and FSH response to a standard bolus of native GnRH. With decreased availability of native GnRH, most stimulation tests are now performed with the GnRH agonist (GnRHa) leuprolide acetate, a synthetic nonapeptide with much greater potency. The timing and peak values of FSH and LH levels differ between GnRH and leuprolide acetate. Following native GnRH administration, LH levels peak after 20–40 minutes, followed by a decline. With leuprolide acetate, peak LH occurs between 0.5 - 4 hours followed by sustained LH elevation. The optimal cutoff value of peak stimulated LH for identifying children with CPP is unclear due to assay variability. For most LH assays, a value of 3.3 to 5 mIU/mL defines the upper limit of normal for stimulated LH values in prepubertal children. Stimulated LH concentrations above this range suggest CPP ( 232 ). Children with progressive CPP tend to have a high stimulated LH:FSH ratios compared with those with non- or intermittently progressive precocious puberty. Measuring the appropriate sex steroid 24 hours following GnRHa administration can help confirm a CPP diagnosis ( 413 ). However, obtaining this second sample may burden the family because of the need for a second venipuncture, expense of another hormone determination, and missed school and work. As noted above regarding basal LH levels, care must be taken in interpreting the results of GnRH stimulation test in females under the age of two years, as both basal and stimulated LH levels can be elevated as part of the normal hormonal changes associated with mini-puberty ( 405 ). To assess GnRH production by the hypothalamus, kisspeptin-stimulated LH response has been proposed to identify individuals with GnRH deficiency and thus CHH. Kisspeptin stimulates
