Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


associated with mini-puberty ( 405 ). To assess GnRH production by the hypothalamus, kisspeptin-stimulated LH response has been proposed to identify individuals with GnRH deficiency and thus CHH. Kisspeptin stimulates GnRH secretion, thus promoting LH, and to a lesser extent FSH, secretion. One study found that maximal LH rise after kisspeptin administration was more accurate for diagnosis of men with GnRH deficiency than GnRH stimulation testing ( 414 ). A similar study in adolescents with pubertal delay (3 females and 13 males), peak LH post kisspeptin stimulation was demonstrated to be superior to GnRH stimulation testing for predicting capacity to progress through puberty (noting that the LH cut off values were different and an ideal cutoff value still needs to be determined) ( 346 ). Further research is required to better define the parameters of using kisspeptin stimulation in clinical practice ( 404 ). In children with precocious pubarche, measurement of adrenal steroids may be necessary to help distinguish between peripheral precocity and benign premature adrenarche. Children with premature adrenarche can have mild elevation in adrenal hormones ( 415 ). Since premature adrenarche is a diagnosis of exclusion, further investigation for congenital adrenal hyperplasia and virilizing adrenal tumors may be indicated. In children, an early-morning 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP) value >200 ng/dL (6 nmol/L) has a high sensitivity and specificity for non-classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia secondary to 21-hydroxylase deficiency. An adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) stimulation test is needed to confirm the diagnosis ( 313 , 416 ). An ACTH stimulation test involves administration of 0.25 mg synthetic ACTH ( 1 - 24 ) or 15 mcg/kg for children up to 2 years of age with blood samples obtained at baseline and either 30 or 60 minutes after synthetic ACTH administration. Although 21-hydroxylase deficiency is the most common virilizing form of CAH, 17-hydroxypregnenolone, DHEA, and 11-deoxycortisol determinations may be necessary to assess for 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase or 11β-hydroxylase deficiencies. Boys with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism tend to have lower inhibin B values compared to boys with CDGP. However, a validated cut-point for inhibin B concentrations remains to be established ( 417 , 418 , 419 ). FSH stimulated inhibin B concentrations < 116 pmol/L have been demonstrated in a study of adolescents with delayed puberty to have more accurate diagnostic discrimination and a promising test for prediction of onset of puberty ( 414 ). Human chorionic gonadotropin concentrations can be measured in males to evaluate for the
