Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


more accurate diagnostic discrimination and a promising test for prediction of onset of puberty ( 414 ). Human chorionic gonadotropin concentrations can be measured in males to evaluate for the possibility of an hCG-secreting tumor leading to peripheral precocity ( 280 ). A thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) concentration should be measured if chronic primary hypothyroidism is suspected as the underlying cause for the sexual precocity, known as the Van-Wyk-Grumbach syndrome ( 296 , 298 ) . Targeted diagnostic tests are warranted in some cases to investigate for specific causes of apparent functional hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, such as anti-transglutaminase IgA for celiac disease. Despite promising data, measurement of AMH and INSL3 in addition to testosterone, as endocrine markers to guide the differential diagnosis ( 418 , 420 ), need additional studies. The testosterone response to long-term hCG stimulation and peak serum FSH response to GnRH were found to be significantly different in CHH patients ( 421 ). However, there are potential long-term drawbacks to prolonged hCG therapy in males who are FSH-naïve regarding premature stimulation of Sertoli and germ cell differentiation prior to FSH exposure ( 338 ). Imaging Studies BONE AGE Assessing the skeletal maturation based on a radiograph of the left hand and wrist is an important diagnostic tool in pubertal evaluation. For the commonly utilized Greulich and Pyle method, the patient’s bone age radiograph is compared with an atlas of radiographs from children of known ages ( 422 ). For the Tanner-Whitehouse 2 method, 20 different hand and wrist bones are scored. Bone age standards are largely based on hand and wrist radiographs obtained from children of European ancestry between the 1930s to the 60s ( 423 ). Despite this limitation, the bone age radiograph is a valuable indicator regarding sex steroid exposure and epiphysial (growth plate) maturation. Additional factors such as other hormones, obesity, genetics, nutritional status, various disease states, and certain medications can influence the rate of epiphyseal maturation ( 424 ) ( 425 ). Bone age has been used to predict adult height using the tables of Bayley and Pinneau ( 426 ), but reliability is low with a tendency toward overestimation ( 427 ). The use of automated measurement systems with artificial intelligence has increased, mitigating previous limitations due to intra- and inter-observer variability ( 428 , 429 ). Bone age readings within two standard deviations of the chronologic age are considered to be within normal
