Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


previous limitations due to intra- and inter-observer variability ( 428 , 429 ). Bone age readings within two standard deviations of the chronologic age are considered to be within normal limits. A delayed bone age is usually observed in patients with delayed puberty and an advanced bone age is observed with precocious puberty. One exception is patients with precocious puberty associated with hypothyroidism (Van Wyk Grumbach syndrome) where the bone age is delayed despite pubertal changes. In some instances, monitoring the predicted adult height (PAH) during the course of treatment of pubertal disorders helps to assess treatment efficacy. ULTRASOUND IMAGING In females, pelvic ultrasound is a rapid, non-invasive, and relatively low-cost method to ascertain the anatomy of the ovaries and uterus, ovarian volume, and uterine development. This imaging is generally readily accessible and does not require sedation, radiation, or use of contrast material. However, the quality of the device and operator experience influence the analysis. During puberty, increased gonadotropin secretion promotes ovarian growth, increased estradiol secretion, and increased uterine volume ( 430 ). Girls with CPP have increased uterine size and ovarian volumes compared to prepubertal girls or those with premature thelarche. However, the overlap between prepubertal and early pubertal girls for ovarian volume and uterine size confounds interpretation of the ultrasound findings ( 431 ) ( 432 ). In a prepubertal patient with isolated vaginal bleeding, a normal pelvic ultrasound does not exclude the diagnosis of a functional ovarian cyst because the cyst may have regressed prior to imaging. Pelvic ultrasounds should be obtained in girls with primary amenorrhea who fail progesterone withdrawal to assess for Mullerian duct and renal anomalies. For patients with rapid development of secondary sex characteristics, pelvic ultrasound studies may be needed to assess for gonadal tumors. The use of Doppler ultrasound to assess utero-ovarian blood flow may also provide helpful information. With increased estradiol secretion and stimulation of the estrogen receptors, vascular resistance of the uterine arteries is reduced. The pulsatility index (PI) is defined as the difference between peak systolic flow and end-diastolic flow divided by the mean flow velocity; the PI reflects impedance to blood flow distal to the sampling point. A review showed that PI is lower among pubertal girls. However, definitive cut-points for PI values have not been established. In addition, testing is operator dependent ( 433 , 434 , 435 , 436 ). Ultrasound examination of the testes, especially
