Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


definitive cut-points for PI values have not been established. In addition, testing is operator dependent ( 433 , 434 , 435 , 436 ). Ultrasound examination of the testes, especially if asymmetric in size, should be performed in males with peripheral precocity to evaluate for the possibility of a Leydig cell tumor ( 437 , 438 ). Testicular ultrasound imaging should be performed regularly to assess for testicular rest tissue in boys with congenital adrenal hyperplasia ( 439 ). MR AND CT IMAGING Brain MR or CT imaging is performed to define brain and pituitary anatomy. Brain and pituitary MR is helpful to assess for intracranial pathology among those with CNS symptoms. Most studies recommend a contrast-enhanced brain MRI for girls with onset of secondary sexual characteristics before six years of age because of higher rates of CNS abnormalities in these patients ( 137 ). In a 2018 meta-analysis ( 440 ), the prevalence of intracranial lesions was 3 percent among girls presenting with CPP after six years of age, compared with 25 percent among those presenting before six years. Thus, girls with pubertal onset between six and eight years of age may not need the MRI in the absence of clinical evidence of CNS pathology ( 441 , 442 , 443 ). MRI should be limited to high-risk individuals (younger age, neurologic symptoms) ( 444 ). Current guidelines recommend that in otherwise asymptomatic girls with CPP, a discussion occur with the parents regarding the pros and cons of brain imaging and assist in informed decision making ( 137 , 445 , 446 ). While contrast-enhanced brain MRIs are recommended for all boys presenting with CPP ( 412 ), one study found that these rates may be overestimated. The prevalence of intracranial lesions among boys who were healthy, did not have neurological symptoms, and were diagnosed with CPP was lower than that previously reported and none of the identified lesions necessitated treatment, suggesting the need to globally reevaluate the prevalence of pathological brain lesions among boys with CPP ( 447 ). For children with delayed puberty, MR imaging of the pituitary gland and olfactory structures can assess for features of CHH such as absence of the olfactory bulbs ( 448 , 449 , 450 ). Pelvic MRI is helpful to characterize and stage pediatric ovarian masses due to excellent soft tissue contrast. In addition, MR imaging does not involve the
