Normal and Abnormal Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, development, pubertal, associated, girls, gnrh, age, concentrations, pubmed, cpp, boys, hormone, syndrome, secretion, increased


, 449 , 450 ). Pelvic MRI is helpful to characterize and stage pediatric ovarian masses due to excellent soft tissue contrast. In addition, MR imaging does not involve the use of ionizing radiation and allows better assessment of the abdomen and kidneys. Disadvantages of MRI include that it is time-consuming, expensive, and may require sedation. In both girls and boys, adrenal tumors can cause peripheral precocious puberty, progressive virilization, and/or markedly elevated serum adrenal androgens (e.g., DHEAS). If diagnoses such as congenital adrenal hyperplasia and exogenous androgen or testosterone exposure have been excluded, such patients should have an imaging study of the adrenal glands ( 451 , 452 , 453 ). CT may be preferable for evaluation, staging, surgical planning for adrenal tumors ( 454 ). Despite radiation exposure, CT can be readily performed in emergent situations. Genetic Testing A karyotype can help with a diagnosis of Turner or Klinefelter syndrome ( 455 ).Newer sequencing technologies along with increased knowledge regarding genes involved in puberty has advanced the usefulness of genetic testing ( 456 ). The known genetic causes of CPP and HH have increased exponentially over the past five years. Genetic testing could therefore precede brain MRI, at least in familial CPP cases ( 167 , 457 ). Patients with delayed puberty associated with phenotypic features such as anosmia/hyposmia, synkinesia, or hearing loss, the probability of detecting a pathogenic variant on genetic testing for HH is increased ( 458 ) ( 459 , 460 ). Consideration should be given to using genetic testing early in the diagnostic process while recognizing the limitations of genetic testing. Challenges in using genetic testing as a discriminatory test between CHH and CDGP remain, and more research is needed in this area. SUMMARY Pubertal development and maturation of the neuroendocrine system involve the ontogeny, activity, and interactions of the GnRH neurons. Pubertal onset is accompanied by an increase in kisspeptin and neurokinin B secretion regulating the pulsatile GnRH secretion that stimulates pulsatile pituitary LH and FSH secretion. LH and FSH stimulate gonadal sex steroid secretion promoting development of secondary sex characteristics and influencing hypothalamic-pituitary function via negative feedback inhibition. Alterations of gut microbiome at different pubertal stages may present an area for future development in the prediction and prevention of precocious puberty. Use of genetic testing including targeted next generation sequencing and whole exome sequencing may have increasing utility as diagnostic tools early
