Hyperaldosteronism
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, aldosteronism, hypertension, primary, primary aldosteronism, adrenal, patients, renin, crossref, doi, clinical, pubmed crossref, free, article pubmed


ABSTRACT Aldosterone regulation plays a crucial role in maintaining intravascular and effective circulating plasma volume and potassium homeostasis. However, inappropriate regulation of aldosterone secretion results in adverse cardiovascular and metabolic consequences and can be encountered in several different phenotypes. Assessing plasma renin activity, in the presence or not of hypertension, is a simple method to approach hyperaldosteronism and define different etiologies. Several breakthroughs in genetic and histopathological research have resulted in a major paradigm shift in understanding the causes of primary aldosteronism (PA). Germline and somatic mutations in membrane channels, such as potassium channels, that maintain the resting potential of zona glomerulosa cells have been implicated in a large subset of aldosterone producing adenomas. Approaching the diagnosis of PA with an initial screening test of aldosterone/renin ratio (ARR) is recommended; an (ARR) >20 with concomitantly suppressed renin levels, is highly suggestive of PA. Confirmation of PA using established suppression tests in borderline cases should prompt further subtype evaluation, including imaging and, when appropriate, adrenal venous sampling to establish the source of aldosterone excess. Adrenal venous sampling (AVS) has been utilized to confirm the source of aldosterone secretion, as unilateral or bilateral, and prevent erroneous diagnoses and treatment plans. However, some emerging data suggest that the use of AVS may not influence outcomes as much as previously considered. In cases of unilateral PA, surgical treatment typically results in the cure of hyperaldosteronism, and substantial improvements in blood pressure and potassium homeostasis. In cases of bilateral disease, and in unilateral diseases where surgery is not feasible, medical management with mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists is usually effective. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Aldosterone is the principal mineralocorticoid in humans that regulates extracellular volume and electrolyte homeostasis primarily through its effects on the renal distal convoluted tubule. In this manner, aldosterone activates the mineralocorticoid receptor in principal cells of the distal nephron, resulting in increased expression of luminal epithelial sodium channels (ENaC) ( 1 ). Sodium is reabsorbed via ENaC resulting in a potent electronegative luminal potential that induces the efflux of cations, namely potassium and hydrogen ions, from the principal cells. Thus, the net effect of this aldosterone action on the kidney is reabsorption of sodium (which ultimately will result in water reabsorption and intravascular volume expansion) and urinary excretion of potassium and hydrogen. In addition to these classical actions of
