Hyperaldosteronism
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, aldosteronism, hypertension, primary, primary aldosteronism, adrenal, patients, renin, crossref, doi, clinical, pubmed crossref, free, article pubmed


kidney is reabsorption of sodium (which ultimately will result in water reabsorption and intravascular volume expansion) and urinary excretion of potassium and hydrogen. In addition to these classical actions of aldosterone in the kidney, the non-classical extra-renal actions of aldosterone, particularly on cardiovascular tissues such as the endothelium and myocardium, are now increasingly recognized in human disease ( 2 , 3 ). ALDOSTERONE REGULATION AND ACTION Physiological Actions of Aldosterone Aldosterone is synthesized in the zona glomerulosa of the adrenal gland cortex. Its production is restricted to this layer of the cortex because of zona-specific expression of aldosterone synthase (CYP11B2)( 4 ), which is the key enzyme for aldosterone biosynthesis ( 5 ). The expression of CYP11B2 is controlled by aldosterone secretagogues. Previous immunohistochemistry studies of the adrenal gland reported that in early life, cells express CYP11B2 in a continuous mode, whereas with increasing age, expression of CYP11B2 is less continuous. Subsequently, in adults, CYP11B2-expressing cells are distributed in a diffuse manner in the subcapsular cortex among typical zona glomerulosa cells not expressing the enzyme, whereas the CYP11B2-expressing area decreases with age ( 5 , 6 ). Aldosterone secretion is primarily stimulated by angiotensin II acting on ATR1 receptors in the adrenal zona glomerulosa and by elevated plasma potassium levels. The renin–angiotensin–aldosterone system (RAAS) is the principal regulator of aldosterone production. Renin, an enzyme produced in the juxtaglomerular apparatus of the kidney, catalyzes the conversion of angiotensinogen (an inactive precursor peptide) to angiotensin I. Angiotensin I undergoes further enzymatic conversion by angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) to produce angiotensin II (Ang II). Ang II acts via the adrenal angiotensin receptor ATR1 to stimulate the release of aldosterone by increasing the transcription of aldosterone synthase. The physiologic role of RAAS is to regulate sodium homeostasis and thereby intravascular plasma volume and arterial pressure. In normal physiology, renin secretion is stimulated by decreased delivery of chloride ion to the macula densa of the juxtaglomerular apparatus. This is typically the consequence of decreased systemic arterial pressure resulting in decreased renovascular pressure and glomerular filtration. Increased renin activity results in activation of the RAAS and increased synthesis of Ang II, an activator of Ca2+ influx and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases (CaMKs) stimulating transcription of CYP11B2 and aldosterone biosynthesis ( 5 ). Ang II has many functions to counter the initial hypotensive and hypoperfusion insult: It acts as a direct arterial vasopressor and can induce vasoconstriction to address
