Hyperaldosteronism
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, aldosteronism, hypertension, primary, primary aldosteronism, adrenal, patients, renin, crossref, doi, clinical, pubmed crossref, free, article pubmed


biosynthesis ( 5 ). Ang II has many functions to counter the initial hypotensive and hypoperfusion insult: It acts as a direct arterial vasopressor and can induce vasoconstriction to address systemic hypotension. It stimulates vasopressin (antidiuretic hormone) release to induce distal nephron water reabsorption and thus expand intravascular volume. It acts at the proximal renal tubule of the nephron to maximize proximal sodium (and therefore water) reabsorption to expand intravascular volume. It maximizes renal sodium reabsorption by stimulating adrenal aldosterone biosynthesis; aldosterone then acts at the principal cells to increase sodium reabsorption as described earlier. The net effect of these actions is a feedback loop, whereby expansion of intravascular volume increases renal perfusion and glomerular filtration and decreases renin secretion ( Figure 1 ). Both potassium and angiotensin II can independently stimulate aldosterone secretion by increasing cytoplasmic calcium concentrations in zona glomerulosa cells, and act synergistically to amplify aldosterone production. Potassium, in addition, enhances the sensitivity of zona glomerulosa cells to angiotensin II. The calcium influx induced by potassium-mediated membrane depolarization activates intracellular signaling pathways that overlap substantially with those triggered by angiotensin II, augmenting aldosterone response to angiotensin II in hyperkalemic states. Beyond this permissive role, aldosterone secretion can also be directly stimulated by elevated serum potassium concentrations, which increase transcription of aldosterone synthase (CYP11B2) within the zona glomerulosa. TWIK-related acid-sensitive potassium (TASK)-1 (KCNK3), TASK-2 (KCNK5), and TASK-3 (KCNK9) channels are two-pore-domain potassium channels, also referred to as K + -selective leak channels, that are predominantly expressed in the adrenal cortex ( 7 , 8 ). These channels generate background potassium currents, maintaining a highly polarized (negative) membrane potential in adrenocortical cells under resting conditions ( 7 , 8 ). Inhibition or genetic deletion of TASK channels leads to membrane depolarization, increased intracellular calcium, and overproduction of aldosterone ( 7 , 8 ). TASK-1 and TASK-3 can form homo- or hetero-meric channels, and their inhibition (by factors such as angiotensin II or extracellular protons) depolarizes the membrane, triggering aldosterone synthesis ( 7 , 8 ). The TASK channels are members of the KCNK family and exhibit sensitivity to extracellular pH ( 9 , 10 ). These channels are crucial for setting the resting membrane potential and are inhibited by extracellular protons within the physiological range( 9 ). Kir3.4, encoded by the KCNJ5 gene, is a G protein-activated inwardly rectifying potassium channel that also contributes to maintaining the hyperpolarized state
