Hyperaldosteronism
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, aldosteronism, hypertension, primary, primary aldosteronism, adrenal, patients, renin, crossref, doi, clinical, pubmed crossref, free, article pubmed


extracellular protons within the physiological range( 9 ). Kir3.4, encoded by the KCNJ5 gene, is a G protein-activated inwardly rectifying potassium channel that also contributes to maintaining the hyperpolarized state of adrenocortical cells. Mutations or dysfunction in Kir3.4 can disrupt potassium efflux, leading to depolarization and increased aldosterone production ( 7 , 8 ). Through the coordinated actions of these potassium channels, even small increases in extracellular potassium can result in a several-fold increase in aldosterone secretion. Activation of the renin–angiotensin–aldosterone system, typically occurring in response to reduced renal blood flow or sodium depletion, further augments aldosterone synthesis and secretion ( 5 , 11 ). Aldosterone’s production can be upregulated acutely following increased expression and phosphorylation of the StAR protein or more chronically due to increased expression of CYP11B2 ( 5 ). Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) is another aldosterone secretagogue, although its effect is modest and transient; ACTH is a 39-amino acid peptide, resulting from the cleavage of its proopiomelanocortin (POMC) precursor. It is produced by the anterior pituitary corticotropes, but, to a lesser degree, can be produced in the brain, adrenal medulla, skin, and placenta ( 12 ). It binds to melanocortin type 2 receptor (MC2R), stimulating both cortisol and aldosterone secretion ( 12 ). However, earlier and more recent data have suggested that the ACTH effect on aldosterone secretion may be more complex and underestimated ( 13 ). It has been reported that increasing StAR expression, as well as activation of the PKA pathway and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase, may lead to increased aldosterone secretion ( 14 ). A recent study evaluated 61 normotensive and 113 hypertensive patients with normal aldosterone suppression in a combined fludrocortisone-dexamethasone suppression test (dexamethasone was administered to eliminate any stimulatory effect of ACTH on aldosterone secretion) who had normal findings in computed tomography. All the patients underwent stimulation tests with 0.03 μg ACTH, while among them, 26 also had genetic studies. The study found that 27% of the hypertensive group exhibited increased aldosterone secretion following the test. Sequencing of the KCNJ5 gene revealed that 2 patients had two different heterozygous germline mutations. Interestingly, MR antagonist therapy was effective for blood pressure normalization ( 15 ). These findings led to the hypothesis that glomerulosa cells were primed by chronic stress-induced ACTH secretion, and, hence, became more sensitive to ACTH and/or REN/angiotensin II ( 15 , 16 ). Additional modulators and mechanisms also include other substances: Adipokines:
