Hyperaldosteronism
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, aldosteronism, hypertension, primary, primary aldosteronism, adrenal, patients, renin, crossref, doi, clinical, pubmed crossref, free, article pubmed


primed by chronic stress-induced ACTH secretion, and, hence, became more sensitive to ACTH and/or REN/angiotensin II ( 15 , 16 ). Additional modulators and mechanisms also include other substances: Adipokines: The adipokine CTRP-1 can directly stimulate aldosterone secretion from human adrenocortical cells in vitro. Other factors or states, such as leptin, insulin, insulin resistance, and sympathetic nervous system activation, can also increase aldosterone secretion, particularly in overweight or obese individuals, partly by sensitizing adrenocortical cells to angiotensin( 17 ), Osmolarity: The adrenal gland is intrinsically osmo-sensitive. Increased osmolarity (by as little as 10 mosmol/l) strongly reduces angiotensin-stimulated aldosterone secretion, indicating that plasma salinity modulates its secretion independently of renin and angiotensin ( 18 ). Magnesium (Mg2+): Mg2+ modulates aldosterone secretion by blocking K+ and Ca2+ channels in adrenal glomerulosa cells. Higher extracellular Mg2+ reduces both basal and angiotensin II-stimulated aldosterone secretion in vitro and in vivo . In humans, Mg2+ depletion augments angiotensin II-stimulated aldosterone secretion, which can be partially reversed by Mg2+ repletion ( 19 ) and Parathyroid Hormone (PTH): PTH can stimulate aldosterone secretion by acting directly on adrenal zona glomerulosa cells and potentiating angiotensin II effects. Conversely, aldosterone excess can induce renal calcium loss, leading to hypocalcemia and secondary hyperparathyroidism ( 20 ). Figure 1. Renin-dependent Aldosteronism. The physiologic relation between the renin-angiotensin system and aldosterone is referred to as “Renin-dependent Aldosteronism,” also referred to as “Secondary Aldosteronism.” Decreased renal-vascular perfusion resulting in decreased glomerular filtration is sensed by juxtaglomerular cells. The consequent release of renin activates the renin-angiotensin system resulting in the synthesis of angiotensin II (Ang II). Ang II induces systemic vasoconstriction, increases proximal tubular sodium reabsorption, and stimulates aldosterone secretion. The net effect is increased renal sodium reabsorption and intravascular volume expansion which closes the feedback loop and corrects the initial stimulus to raise renin. CIRCADIAN AND RHYTHMIC REGULATION Aldosterone is secreted in both ultradian and circadian rhythmic patterns. Studies using high-frequency blood sampling have shown that basal rates and the amplitude of pulsed aldosterone secretion are significantly higher in patients with primary aldosteronism than healthy controls, though pulse frequency remains unchanged. Additionally, aldosterone secretion is under circadian regulation, with increased secretion during the biological night compared to the day, independently of sleep or posture ( 21 , 22 ). Pathophysiologic Actions of Aldosterone Emerging evidence has implicated aldosterone, and specifically activation of the mineralocorticoid receptor, with cardiovascular and cardiometabolic diseases ( 12 ,
