Hyperaldosteronism
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, aldosteronism, hypertension, primary, primary aldosteronism, adrenal, patients, renin, crossref, doi, clinical, pubmed crossref, free, article pubmed


posture ( 21 , 22 ). Pathophysiologic Actions of Aldosterone Emerging evidence has implicated aldosterone, and specifically activation of the mineralocorticoid receptor, with cardiovascular and cardiometabolic diseases ( 12 , 23 , 24 ). The mineralocorticoid receptor is classically considered in the context of its expression in the distal nephron; however, it is now clear that this receptor is also expressed in the vasculature and heart and plays an important role in mediating cardiovascular pathophysiology. The non-classical effects of aldosterone have stemmed from dysregulated aldosterone physiology being linked to deleterious end-organ effects. Typically, this has been evidenced by inappropriately elevated levels of aldosterone in the setting of high dietary sodium intake (subclinical or clinical primary hyperaldosteronism). However, some evidence also suggests that inappropriately low levels of aldosterone on a restricted sodium diet, or in response to angiotensin II, are also associated with adverse cardiometabolic consequences ( 25 – 28 ). Excess or inappropriate aldosterone activity has been associated with or shown to cause cardiac fibrosis, inflammation, and remodeling ( 28 – 30 ), pathologic insulin secretion and/or peripheral resistance, as well as the metabolic syndrome ( 27 , 31 , 32 ), kidney injury ( 33 ), and increased mortality ( 34 ). Interventional studies in animals and humans have supported these assertions by demonstrating the prevention of these deleterious effects with the use of mineralocorticoid antagonists ( 34 , 35 ). Taken together, this evolving body of evidence points towards subclinical aldosterone excess, particularly in the milieu of excessive dietary sodium intake, as a modifiable cardio-metabolic risk factor. The mechanisms by which this can occur are many: 1) an adrenal tumor that autonomously secretes aldosterone; 2) unilateral or bilateral hyperplasia of the zona glomerulosa that oversecretes aldosterone; 3) or germline or somatic mutations that induce aldosterone hypersecretion that is decoupled from Ang II signaling. Autonomous aldosterone excess results in continuous renal sodium reabsorption, intravascular volume expansion, hypertension and renal-vascular hyperperfusion, and consequently suppression of the RAAS. Yet, despite this physiologic suppression of the RAAS, aldosterone secretion continues unabated, resulting in a vicious cycle of hypertension and, possibly, also hypokalemia ( Figure 2 ). Patients with primary aldosteronism (PA), when compared with matched essential hypertensives, have increased left ventricular wall and carotid intima media thickness, as well as impaired diastolic pressure and endothelial function ( 24 , 36 , 37 ). A higher incidence of atrial fibrillation, often hypokalemia-induced, coronary
