Hyperaldosteronism
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, aldosteronism, hypertension, primary, primary aldosteronism, adrenal, patients, renin, crossref, doi, clinical, pubmed crossref, free, article pubmed


and carotid intima media thickness, as well as impaired diastolic pressure and endothelial function ( 24 , 36 , 37 ). A higher incidence of atrial fibrillation, often hypokalemia-induced, coronary artery disease, and heart failure have been reported ( 38 , 39 ). PA is also associated with a higher incidence of negative cardiovascular outcomes (myocardial infarction and stroke) than essential hypertension with a similar degree of blood pressure elevation ( 39 – 42 ). Therefore, PA is considered to induce increased cardiovascular risk independent of blood pressure effects alone. The excess cardiovascular events associated with PA were previously considered reversible if treatment with mineralocorticoid antagonists was administered in time ( 42 , 43 ). However, newer data suggest that PA patients treated with MR antagonists had an approximately two-fold higher incidence of adverse cardiovascular events. Patients with PA also had a significantly higher death risk, as well as a higher incidence of atrial fibrillation and diabetes mellitus than people diagnosed with essential hypertension. The adjusted 10-year cumulative incidence difference for occurrence of cardiovascular morbidity for patients with PA and treatment with MR antagonists was reported to be 14.1 (95% CI 10.1, 18.0) excess events per 100 individuals compared to those with essential hypertension ( 44 ). Figure 2. Renin-Independent Aldosteronism or Primary Aldosteronism (PA). The pathophysiologic relation between the renin-angiotensin system and aldosterone regulation in PA is referred to as “Renin-independent Aldosteronism”. CAUSES OF MINERALOCORTICOID EXCESS SYNDROME Mineralocorticoid excess states ( Figure 3 ) comprise a group of disorders that can be separated into those mediated by the principal mineralocorticoid, aldosterone, and those caused by non-aldosterone etiologies PA ( 45 ). PA can result from autonomous secretion of aldosterone from one or both adrenal glands. In this circumstance, the PRA is suppressed (hyporeninemic hyperaldosteronism or renin-independent aldosteronism), and the plasma aldosterone to renin activity ratio is elevated. In secondary hyperaldosteronism, increased activation of the RAAS is the initiating event, resulting in excess aldosterone production (hyperreninemic hyperaldosteronism or renin-dependent aldosteronism). Therefore, secondary hyperaldosteronism can be a normal physiologic phenomenon (such as in states of systemic hypovolemia or hypoperfusion) or can manifest as a pathologic entity when activation of the RAAS is inappropriate relative to the state of the systemic vasculature. The distinction between primary and secondary causes of hyperaldosteronism is of importance, as the manifestations, as well as the subsequent testing and treatment, differ ( 45 ). Figure 3. The
