Hyperaldosteronism
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, aldosteronism, hypertension, primary, primary aldosteronism, adrenal, patients, renin, crossref, doi, clinical, pubmed crossref, free, article pubmed


The distinction between primary and secondary causes of hyperaldosteronism is of importance, as the manifestations, as well as the subsequent testing and treatment, differ ( 45 ). Figure 3. The Approach to Mineralocorticoid Excess Syndromes. See concept video at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=db9v9kNIiXU . Evaluation of renin as suppressed or unsuppressed is often the first algorithmic step to determine whether the underlying pathophysiology is renin or AngII-dependent versus renin or Ang II-independent. Renin-independent states (low renin) can be further characterized as having relatively high aldosterone (primary aldosteronism) or a suppressed aldosterone (pseudo- primary aldosteronism). High renin states represent secondary aldosteronism and may present with hypertension or normotension, depending on the nature of disease. Renin-Independent Aldosteronism (Primary Aldosteronism) PA is recognized as the most common form of secondary hypertension, with a prevalence ranging from 5% to 15% in hypertensive patients and up to 20%–30% in those with resistant hypertension ( 46 – 48 ) The five established morphological subtypes of PA include: aldosterone-producing adenoma (APA), bilateral adrenal hyperplasia (BAH), unilateral adrenal hyperplasia (UAH), glucocorticoid-remediable aldosteronism (GRA), and, rarely, adrenocortical carcinoma ( 49 , 50 ). A potential sixth subtype may involve a morphologically normal adrenal gland (without any tumor or hyperplasia) that harbors clusters of increased expression of aldosterone synthase (the aldosterone producing cell cluster)( 4 , 51 , 52 ). Recent advances in genetics and clinical research have dramatically enhanced our understanding of the pathogenesis of these subtypes and have raised the question of whether these entities are part of a larger spectrum of disorders that share genetic underpinnings ( 5 , 6 ). Aldosterone-producing adenoma (APA): Estimates for the proportion of PA cases due to APA vary widely, with most recent data indicating that APA accounts for approximately 27%–35% of cases ( 46 – 48 ) Bilateral adrenal hyperplasia (BAH)/Idiopathic hyperaldosteronism (IHA ): BAH is reported to account for about 60%–65% of PA cases ( 46 – 48 ) Unilateral adrenal hyperplasia (UAH): UAH is much less common, representing about 2% of cases of PA ( 46 , 53 ) Other rare causes : Familial hyperaldosteronism and aldosterone-producing adrenocortical carcinoma each account for less than 1% of PA cases ( 46 , 53 ). There are some discrepancies in the literature, with one source reporting APA being as high as 65% and BAH as 35% ( 46 , 53 ). The majority of studies aligns with the 30–40% APA and 60–65% BAH
