Hyperaldosteronism
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, aldosteronism, hypertension, primary, primary aldosteronism, adrenal, patients, renin, crossref, doi, clinical, pubmed crossref, free, article pubmed


one source reporting APA being as high as 65% and BAH as 35% ( 46 , 53 ). The majority of studies aligns with the 30–40% APA and 60–65% BAH distribution. APAs are often small tumors, usually less than 2 cm in diameter. Histopathology of APA reveals hybrid cells which have histological features of both zona glomerulosa and zona fasciculata cells. Unilateral adrenal hyperplasia (UAH), sometimes referred to as primary adrenal hyperplasia, shares many biochemical features with APA. This diagnosis is often made on evidence of unilateral production of aldosterone in the absence of a discrete radiographic mass. Similarly to APA, the hypertension and biochemical abnormalities with UAH may be cured or substantially ameliorated with unilateral adrenalectomy ( 54 , 55 ). BAH probably represents a spectrum of disorders ( 56 – 58 ). The extent of hyperaldosteronism is often milder in BAH than in APA, and consequently the severity of hypertension, hypokalemia, and suppression of PRA is often less. Adrenal carcinomas are a rare cause of PA. At the time of diagnosis, adrenal carcinomas are generally large (>4 cm) and may be producing one or multiple adrenal cortical hormones, including cortisol, aldosterone, and adrenal androgens. Epidemiology In 1954, Conn first reported the clinical syndrome of hypertension, hypokalemia, and metabolic alkalosis resulting from autonomous production of aldosterone from an adrenal adenoma – a syndrome that continues to bear his name ( 59 ). Previous studies reported a prevalence of PA of 1-2%, even in patients with adrenal incidentaloma and hypertension ( 60 ). Since that time, numerous studies have investigated the prevalence of PA and reported rates ranging from 3% to 20% depending on the population and diagnostic approach. The prevalence is highest in patients with resistant hypertension and increases with the severity of hypertension. Improved screening, especially using the ARR, has led to greater recognition of PA, particularly among normokalemic patients who were previously missed ( 61 – 69 ). Initial studies primarily diagnosed patients with PA if they had both hypertension and spontaneous (not diuretic-induced) hypokalemia. More recent reports, however, describe hypokalemic PA in only the minority of PA cases (<40%) ( 53 ), and describe an intermediate phenotype of normotensive PA with milder manifestations than the classic hypertensive PA( 70 – 77 ). Many (up to 63%) of patients with PA may be normokalemic ( 39 , 60 ). A recent study suggested that PA was diagnosed
