Hyperaldosteronism
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, aldosteronism, hypertension, primary, primary aldosteronism, adrenal, patients, renin, crossref, doi, clinical, pubmed crossref, free, article pubmed


of the zona fasciculata ( 100 , 101 ). This discovery set off international research efforts to investigate the role of potassium channel mutations in PA. Although the prevalence of KCNJ5 germline mutations is considered to be extremely low ( 75 , 94 , 102 , 103 ), investigators have now reported the presence of KCNJ5 somatic mutations in 30-50% of patients with APA’s ( 75 , 94 , 102 – 105 ). Hence, the discovery of a rare familial form of PA has resulted in understanding that somatic potassium channel mutations may be a highly prevalent cause of PA. In general, from the reports to date, somatic mutations in KCNJ5 appear to be associated with female gender, younger age, and higher aldosterone levels; however, these descriptions may reflect a significant sample selection bias. Normally, adrenal zona glomerulosa cells maintain a hyperpolarized resting membrane potential that is largely regulated by potassium current. Depolarization of the cell (either by angiotensin II or hyperkalemia-mediated inhibition of the potassium current) results in the opening of voltage-gated calcium channels, increased intracellular calcium signaling, and stimulation of aldosterone synthase. A gain-of-function mutation in GIRK4 results in sodium influx, cell depolarization, and increased aldosterone synthesis ( 106 – 108 ) ( Figure 4A-C ). In this manner, mutations in channels that regulate the resting potential of zona glomerulosa cells have been implicated in the development of hyperaldosteronism. How these mutations may result in proliferation and adenoma production is not well understood. This understanding provoked further international collaborative research, especially among European research teams, to investigate the role of other cell membrane channels involved in maintaining zona glomerulosa cell resting potential. This research has resulted in the discovery of somatic mutations in the sodium-potassium-ATPase, calcium-ATPase, and voltage-gated calcium channel all in the zona glomerulosa cell membrane in the pathogenesis of PA ( 109 ). Figure 4. Adrenal zona glomerulosa cell membrane potential and KCNJ5 mutations. Normal resting equilibrium. The normal resting potential of zona glomerulsa cells is hyperpolarized thereby preventing calcium influx by inhibiting voltage-gated calcium channels. Figure 5. Adrenal zona glomerulosa cell membrane potential and KCNJ5 mutations. Normal aldosterone stimulation. Activation of the angiotensin receptor (ATR1) by angiotensin II (ANG II) or extracellular hyperkalemia results in depolarization of the cell and resultant calcium influx via activated voltage-gated calcium channels. Calcium influx activates signaling to increase expression of aldosterone synthase and ultimately aldosterone production. Figure 6. Adrenal
