Hyperaldosteronism
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, aldosteronism, hypertension, primary, primary aldosteronism, adrenal, patients, renin, crossref, doi, clinical, pubmed crossref, free, article pubmed


depolarization of the cell and resultant calcium influx via activated voltage-gated calcium channels. Calcium influx activates signaling to increase expression of aldosterone synthase and ultimately aldosterone production. Figure 6. Adrenal zona glomerulosa cell membrane potential and KCNJ5 mutations. KCNJ5 mutations. Mutations in KCNJ5 result in permeability to Na + , resultant depolarization and calcium influx via voltage-gated calcium channels. Similarly, mutant Na + /K + ATPase and Ca ++ ATPase result in cell membrane depolarization and calcium influx. Familial hyperaldosteronism type IV (FH IV) results from germline mutations in the T-type calcium channel subunit gene CACNA1H ( 110 ). Germline mutations in CACNA1D (encoding a subunit of L-type voltage-gated calcium channel CaV1.3) are found in patients with PA sometimes associated with seizures, and other neurological abnormalities ( 111 ). Additional genes, such as PDE2A and PDE3B, have been associated with bilateral PA, further expanding the spectrum of genetic etiologies( 112 ) ( Table 2 ). Table 2. Key Genes Implicated in Primary Aldosteronism View in own window Gene Associated PA Form(s) Mutation Type Functional Impact KCNJ5 APA, FH-III Somatic/Germline Alters potassium channel, ↑ Ca2+ influx CACNA1D/H APA, FH Somatic/Germline Alters calcium channel, ↑ Ca2+ influx ATP1A1 APA, FH Somatic/Germline Alters Na+/K+-ATPase, ↑ Ca2+ signaling ATP2B3 APA Somatic Alters Ca2+-ATPase, ↑ Ca2+ signaling CLCN2 FH Germline Alters chloride channel, ↑ aldosterone CYP11B1/B2 FH-I (GRA) Germline Chimeric gene, ACTH-dependent aldosterone PDE2A/3B Bilateral PA Germline Alters cAMP signaling, ↑ aldosterone With continued collaborative research, it is expected the number of mutated gene products regulating the resting potential of zona glomerulosa cells implicated in the pathogenesis of PA will grow. Whether the identification of these mutations will translate to treatment modalities remains to be seen. Histopathology (APCCs / APMs) The histopathological discovery of aldosterone-producing cell clusters (APCCs) also referred to as aldosterone-producing micronodules (APMs), CYP11B2 expressing area and/or areas of abnormal foci of CYP11B2-expressing cells ( 6 , 113 ), sparked another leap in the understanding of PA pathogenesis. APCCs have now been identified in more than 50% of morphologically normal adrenal glands and are found with higher prevalence in older individuals ( 6 , 113 ). Recent studies reported decreased normal zona glomerulosa CYP11B2 expression and increased APCC expression with advancing age ( 6 , 113 ). Furthermore, APCCs harbor somatic mutations known to increase autonomous aldosterone secretion in APAs( 52 ) ( 37 ). Although studies of APCCs to date lack biochemical
