Hyperaldosteronism
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, aldosteronism, hypertension, primary, primary aldosteronism, adrenal, patients, renin, crossref, doi, clinical, pubmed crossref, free, article pubmed


6 , 113 ). Furthermore, APCCs harbor somatic mutations known to increase autonomous aldosterone secretion in APAs( 52 ) ( 37 ). Although studies of APCCs to date lack biochemical or clinical correlates to confirm that this histopathological phenotype of aldosterone synthase overexpression induces renin-independent aldosteronism, they raised speculation that the APCC may represent a precursor for development of APA or BAH. For example, APCCs exist even in adrenal tissue adjacent to an aldosterone-producing adenoma ( 51 ), suggesting that APCCs have non-suppressible aldosterone synthase activity. Several clinical studies to date have shown mild or “subclinical” renin-independent aldosteronism in normotensives and early stage hypertensives, and that this phenotype increases the risk for cardiometabolic and/or chronic kidney disease ( 27 , 114 – 118 ) However, even if APCCs/APMs are increasingly recognized as a histopathological substrate for subclinical PA, supporting the link between tissue pathology and the clinical phenotype, however, direct clinical-histopathological correlation is still being established ( 119 – 121 ). Therefore, future studies that integrate APCC histopathology with biochemical testing and incident clinical outcomes are needed to better characterize whether APCCs may represent the initial pathogenesis of PA. Clinical Features The clinical features of hyperaldosteronism are non-specific and variable, often resulting in or associated with hypertension. It is more important to distinguish whether hyperaldosteronism is primary or secondary, as this pathophysiologic designation dictates the likely clinical syndrome ( Figure 7 ). Renal potassium wasting can result in hypokalemia. The phenotype depends largely on the underlying cause and the degree of the aldosterone excess, as well as the presence of other co-morbidities. The classic features of moderate-to-severe hypertension, hypokalemia, and metabolic alkalosis are highly suggestive of mineralocorticoid excess (usually PA). In most cases, however, only subtle clues of hyperaldosteronism exist, such as the recent onset of refractory hypertension (defined as refractory to treatment with three classes of antihypertensives, including a diuretic) ( 58 ). Hypertension is common among patients with PA. Hypertension results from inappropriately high aldosterone secretion because of plasma volume expansion and increased peripheral vascular resistance. Hypertension may be severe or refractory to standard antihypertensive therapies. However, some patients are normotensive or have minimal blood pressure elevations and, as a result, severe hypertension is not a sine qua non for this diagnosis ( 38 , 65 , 122 – 125 ). Spontaneous hypokalemia in any patient with or without concurrent hypertension warrants consideration of hyperaldosteronism as an etiology.
