Hyperaldosteronism
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, aldosteronism, hypertension, primary, primary aldosteronism, adrenal, patients, renin, crossref, doi, clinical, pubmed crossref, free, article pubmed


non for this diagnosis ( 38 , 65 , 122 – 125 ). Spontaneous hypokalemia in any patient with or without concurrent hypertension warrants consideration of hyperaldosteronism as an etiology. Additionally, patients that develop severe hypokalemia after institution of a potassium-wasting diuretic (such as hydrochlorothiazide or furosemide) should be investigated. It should be noted that in most PA cases serum potassium levels are normal ( 58 , 126 ). PA results in extracellular volume expansion secondary to excess sodium reabsorption. However, after the retention of several liters of isotonic saline, an escape from the renal sodium-retaining actions of aldosterone occurs in part due to the increased secretion of atrial natriuretic peptide. Therefore, peripheral edema is rarely a feature of PA if cardiac and renal function are normal. Metabolic alkalosis occurs secondary to renal distal tubule urinary hydrogen ion secretion. It is usually mild, causing no significant sequelae, and may go unnoticed. Hypomagnesemia and mild hypernatremia (likely secondary to resetting of the osmostat) can also be observed. Rarely, patients experience neuromuscular symptoms, including paresthesias or weakness, due to the electrolyte disturbances caused by PA. Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, caused by renal tubule antidiuretic hormone resistance due to hypokalemia, can cause nocturia and mild polyuria and polydipsia. Atrial fibrillation and cardiac arrhythmias may occur and can be life threatening. Figure 7. Clinical manifestations of primary aldosteronism. DIAGNOSIS OF HYPERALDOSTERONISM Secondary causes of hypertension (including hyperaldosteronism) should be considered initially in all hypertensive individuals. A thorough medical history and physical examination can greatly assist the clinician in deciding which patients should be further evaluated and what tests should be performed. Although the sensitivity of testing for hyperaldosteronism increases when limited to patients with moderate-to-severe hypertension, many patients with hyperaldosteronism have mild to moderate hypertension. The recent onset of refractory or accelerated hypertension, especially in a patient known to be previously normotensive, can be a valuable clinical clue. Therefore, the clinician must remain vigilant to the possibility of hyperaldosteronism, especially in the appropriate clinical setting. Who to Screen An updated Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline (2025) provides a comprehensive, evidence-based approach to the diagnosis and management of primary aldosteronism (PA), with a notable shift toward broader screening strategies ( 127 ). The guideline conditionally recommends screening all individuals with hypertension for PA using the ARR, measured alongside plasma aldosterone concentration, renin (either PRA or DRC), and potassium, to enable accurate interpretation ( 127 ). In
