Hyperaldosteronism
KEYWORDS: aldosterone, pubmed, aldosteronism, hypertension, primary, primary aldosteronism, adrenal, patients, renin, crossref, doi, clinical, pubmed crossref, free, article pubmed


be established, these agents are currently under regulatory review and may soon expand the therapeutic options for patients with primary aldosteronism, particularly for those with bilateral disease or those who cannot tolerate mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists. Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia Another mineralocorticoid-excess state with low plasma renin activity is congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH). The most common cause of CAH is 21-hydroxylase deficiency, which can result in variable insufficiencies of cortisol and aldosterone. However, much rarer forms of CAH, for example, 11β-hydroxylase deficiency and 17 α -hydroxylase deficiency can result in monogenic hypertension due to hyper-mineralocorticoidism, caused by elevated deoxycortisol and deoxycorticosterone levels, and resultant excessive mineralocorticoid receptor activation ( 148 , 149 )( Figure 3 ). Apparent Mineralocorticoid Excess (AME) and Liddle’s Syndrome AME results from abnormal activation of the Type I mineralocorticoid receptor in the kidney by cortisol, secondary to an acquired (licorice ingestion or chewing tobacco) or congenital deficiency of the renal isoform of the type II isoenzyme of the corticosteroid 11-β-dehydrogenase. This isoenzyme converts cortisol to the inactive cortisone in the renal distal convoluted tubule ( 148 , 150 ). However, in case of this isoenzyme’s deficiency, the type I mineralocorticoid receptor is no longer ‘protected’ from activation by cortisol and responds to it as if it were aldosterone. Mutations in 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 gene (HSD11B2) is the main cause of this rare autosomal recessive disorder, apparent mineralocorticoid excess or AME, which is a form of low renin hypertension( 151 ). The most common clinical manifestations are cardiovascular complications, severe hypertension, left ventricular hypertrophy, and hypertensive retinopathy and nephrocalcinosis associated with hypokalemia. Death caused by cardiac arrest in adolescence has been reported ( 151 ). In Liddle syndrome, constitutive activation of the renal epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) results from activating mutations in the ENaC gene. In both AME and Liddle’s syndromes, the intrinsic renal abnormalities described lead to unregulated and excessive sodium reabsorption, and therefore a biochemical phenotype of suppressed PRA, hypokalemia, and undetectable levels of plasma aldosterone ( 150 ). Glucocorticoid-remediable aldosteronism is treated primarily with low-dose glucocorticoids to suppress ACTH-driven aldosterone synthesis, using the minimal effective dose to avoid long-term adverse effects. MRAs remain effective adjuncts or alternatives when glucocorticoids are contraindicated or poorly tolerated ( 152 ). CAUSES OF MINERALOCORTICOID EXCESS WITH HIGH PLASMA RENIN ACTIVITY (SECONDARY ALDOSTERONISM) Secondary aldosteronism refers to renin-dependent hypersecretion of aldosterone due to activation of the renin–angiotensin–aldosterone system (RAAS), rather
