NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: ashwagandha, liver, injury, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, herbal, liver injury, cases, jaundice, alt, year, developed, old, year old


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Ashwagandha. [Updated 2024 Dec 3]. Bookshelf URL: Ashwagandha Updated: December 3, 2024. OVERVIEW Introduction stress and anxiety. Ashwagandha has not been implicated in causing serum enzyme elevations during therapy but recently has been implicated in cases of clinically apparent liver injury. Background Ashwagandha is an Ayurvedic herb that is derived from extracts of the roots of Withania somnifera, a low growing evergreen shrub that is native to India and Southeast Asia. Ashwagandha is a Sanskrit word meaning horse smell. Sometimes called “Indian ginseng”, it is purported to have neuroprotective and antiinflammatory activities and is used to treat stress, anxiety, insomnia, fatigue, pain, skin diseases, diabetes, arthritis, and epilepsy. It is also used as a general tonic to increase energy, reduce fatigue and counteract the effects of aging. Its efficacy in these conditions has not been shown in controlled prospective studies, but it has been used in Ayurvedic medicine for centuries and is currently the most frequently used Ayurvedic medication. Ashwagandha has recently become a popular herbal product in Western countries. Withania somnifera extracts have more than 100 different chemical constituents including alkaloids, steroidal lactones, saponins, withanolides, withaferins and iron. The ingredient responsible for its purported activities and side effects is not known but withanolides are suspected. Extracts of ashwagandha root are often supplied as capsules or tablets in concentrations of 150 to 600 mg, which are taken one to three times daily, the total daily dose varying widely. Side effects are uncommon and have not been clearly defined. Large doses can cause gastrointestinal upset, diarrhea, nausea and vomiting, probably because of direct irritation to the intestinal mucosa. Hepatotoxicity trials, there have been no reports of serum enzyme elevations occurring during therapy and no mention of serious adverse events or hepatotoxicity. Recently, however, cases of clinically apparent liver injury have been reported in patients taking commercial herbal products that are labelled as containing ashwagandha. Typically, the liver injury presented 2 to 12 weeks after starting ashwagandha usually with a cholestatic or mixed pattern of injury, jaundice, and pruritus. Immunoallergic and autoimmune features were not prominent. Occasional cases were hepatocellular initially, but in general the ensuing jaundice was protracted although it ultimately resolved completely. Rare instances of fatal liver injury or need for emergent liver transplantation have been reported particularly in patients with preexisting liver disease
