NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: ashwagandha, liver, injury, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, herbal, liver injury, cases, jaundice, alt, year, developed, old, year old


jaundice was protracted although it ultimately resolved completely. Rare instances of fatal liver injury or need for emergent liver transplantation have been reported particularly in patients with preexisting liver disease and cirrhosis. Because commercial herbal preparations are often mixtures of herbs and nutritional products and can be mislabeled and contain unknown herbs and 2 LiverTox medications, it is not always clear whether the reported cases were due to ashwagandha and one of its components or to a contaminant. In several reported cases, however, the commercial product being taken was tested and found to have ashwagandha without other contaminants. First reported in 2017, an increasing number of cases have been reported since. Thus, clinically apparent liver injury attributable to ashwagandha occurs although rarely, and its use should be avoided in patients with cirrhosis or advanced chronic liver disease. Likelihood score: B (likely cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The cause of hepatotoxicity from products containing ashwagandha is unclear. Among the many ingredients the withanolides have been most suspect. The possibility of mislabeling or adulteration with hepatotoxic herbal products is always an issue in commercial multiingredient dietary supplements. Outcome and Management Most cases of ashwagandha associated liver injury have been mild-to-moderate in severity and self-limited in course, but fatal cases due to acute liver failure or acute-on-chronic liver failure have been described. Protracted jaundice in not uncommon, but chronic liver injury and vanishing bile duct syndrome have not been described. In most instances, the liver injury subsides within 1 to 4 months of discontinuing the herbal product. Rechallenge with the same product should be avoided. Other names: Indian Ginseng, Winter Cherry, Poison Gooseberry Drug Class: Herbal and Dietary Supplements PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Ashwagandha – Generic DRUG CLASS Herbal and Dietary Supplements SUMMARY INFORMATION CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE DRUG CAS REGISTRY NUMBER MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Ashwagandha 90147-43-6 Unspecified Not applicable ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 03 December 2024 Zimmerman HJ. Unconventional drugs. Miscellaneous drugs and diagnostic chemicals. In, Zimmerman, HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1999: pp. 731-4. Ashwagandha 3 (Expert review of hepatotoxicity published in 1999; several herbals are discussed, including comfrey, Jin Bu huan, germander, chaparral leaf, skullcap and valerian, but not ashwagandha). Liu LU, Schiano TD. Hepatotoxicity of herbal medicines, vitamins and natural hepatotoxins. In, Kaplowitz N, DeLeve LD, eds. Drug-induced liver disease. 2nd ed.
