Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


- 7 ). It is clinically very important to recognize these uncommon causes of diabetes as treatment directed towards the underlying etiology can at times result in the remission of diabetes (for example Cushing’s Syndrome) or be required to avoid other complications of the underlying disorder (for example hemochromatosis, which in addition to causing diabetes can lead to severe liver disease and congestive heart failure). Additionally, recognizing the type of diabetes can allow for the appropriate treatment. For example, recognizing ketosis prone diabetes facilitates discontinuing insulin therapy. Table 1. Non-Type 1 Non-T2D Classification View in own window Genetic defects of beta-cell development and function MODY (common causes- GCK, HNF1A, HNF4A, HNF1B) Neonatal Diabetes (common causes- KCNJ11, ABCC8, INS, 6q24) Mitochondrial DNA Genetic defects in insulin action Type A insulin resistance Donohue Syndrome (Leprechaunism) Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome Lipoatrophic diabetes Diseases of the pancreas Pancreatitis Fibrocalculous pancreatic disease Trauma/pancreatectomy Neoplasia Cystic ﬁbrosis Hemochromatosis (iron overload) Thalassemia (iron overload) Endocrinopathies Acromegaly Cushing’s syndrome Glucagonoma Pheochromocytoma Hyperthyroidism Somatostatinoma Primary hyperaldosteronism Drug- or chemical-induced hyperglycemia Vacor Pentamidine Nicotinic acid Glucocorticoids Diazoxide Check point inhibitors Phenytoin (Dilantin) Interferon alpha Immune suppressants Others (statins, psychotropic drugs, b-Adrenergic agonists, thiazides, fluoroquinolones, beta-adrenergic drugs, teprotumumab, etc.) Infections Congenital rubella Hepatitis C virus HIV COVID-19 Immune-mediated diabetes Stiff-man syndrome Anti-insulin receptor antibodies Autoimmune polyglandular syndromes Diabetes of unknown cause Ketosis-prone diabetes (Flatbush diabetes) Other genetic syndromes sometimes associated with diabetes Down syndrome Klinefelter syndrome Turner syndrome Wilsons syndrome Wolfram syndrome Friedreich ataxia Bardet-Biedl syndrome (Laurence-Moon-Biedl syndrome) Myotonic dystrophy Prader-Willi syndrome Alström syndrome MATERNALLY INHERITED DIABETES MELLITUS AND DEAFNESS (MIDD) Maternally inherited diabetes mellitus and deafness (MIDD) is a mitochondrial disorder characterized by diabetes and progressive sensorineural hearing loss ( 8 - 10 ). Mitochondrial DNA is only transmitted from the mother as the sperm lacks mitochondrial DNA ( 8 ). Therefore, over 50% of affected individuals with MIDD have a mother with diabetes. A mother with this disorder transmits the mutation to almost all of her offspring ( 11 ). However, the proportion of somatic cells with the mutation can vary considerably, a condition called heteroplasmy ( 9 ). The higher the number of somatic cells with a mutation the greater is the penetrance of symptoms and disease severity. Additionally, the proportion of somatic cells with a mutation can vary from tissue to tissue and may explain the variability in the manifestations of this disorder ( 9 ). The prevalence of
