Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


proportion of somatic cells with a mutation can vary from tissue to tissue and may explain the variability in the manifestations of this disorder ( 9 ). The prevalence of mitochondrial diabetes in the diabetes population depends on ethnic background and ranges between 0.2% and 2%, with the highest prevalence in Japan ( 11 ). MIDD is associated with a point mutation in a transfer ribonucleic acid (tRNA) gene at position 3243 with an A to G transition ( 8 - 10 ). In addition to diabetes and auditory impairment, the m.3243A>G mutation can cause other clinical manifestations including central neurological and psychiatric disorders, eye disease, myopathy, cardiac disorders, renal disease, endocrine disease, and gastrointestinal disease ( 8 , 9 ). Other point mutations in mitochondrial DNA can also result in diabetes and deafness but these mutations are rare in comparison to m.3243A>G ( 8 , 9 , 11 ). It is thought that defects in mitochondrial function result in the decreased production of ATP following glucose uptake by beta cells resulting in decreased insulin secretion in response to elevated glucose levels ( 8 , 9 ). Additionally, mitochondrial dysfunction in the highly metabolically active pancreatic islets ultimately results in the loss of B‐cell mass further compromising insulin secretion ( 9 ). Insulin sensitivity is usually normal ( 11 ). Other tissues that are metabolically active may also be adversely effected by the inability of the mitochondria to produce ATP including the cells in the cochlea ( 9 ). The clinical syndrome of MIDD can phenotypically resemble either T1D or T2D ( 9 , 11 ). The age of onset varies between childhood and mid-adulthood. Approximately 20% of patients present acutely with high glucose levels and even ketoacidosis ( 9 ). Most patients do not have islet cell antibodies but they are present in a small number of patients ( 9 ). This could be due to concomitant T1D or to the development of antibodies secondary to beta cell destruction due to mitochondria dysfunction. Patients tend to be thin rather than obese ( 9 ). This disorder can be distinguished from MODY by the presence of multi-organ involvement, particularly sensorineural hearing loss, and maternal rather than autosomal dominant transmission. Initially patients may be treated with diet and/or oral agents but overtime most patients with MIDD progress to requiring insulin therapy ( 8 , 9 , 11 ). As the name
