Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


patients may be treated with diet and/or oral agents but overtime most patients with MIDD progress to requiring insulin therapy ( 8 , 9 , 11 ). As the name implies, this disorder is recognized by the presence of diabetes and deafness and a family history of these conditions in maternal relatives ( 9 , 11 ). Hearing loss is present in approximately 75% of patients and typically precedes the development of diabetes ( 9 ). Hearing loss is more common and severe in males ( 9 ). Approximately 10-15% of patients, in addition to having diabetes and deafness, also have the syndrome of mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke‐like episodes ( 9 ). The m.3243A>G mutation can cause a wide spectrum of abnormalities that include neurological abnormalities (strokes, dementia, seizures), psychiatric disorders including recurrent major depression, schizophrenia and a variety of phobias, macular retinal dystrophy with pigmentation, proximal myopathy, cardiomyopathy, renal failure, short stature, endocrine dysfunction, and gastrointestinal complaints ( 9 ). The finding of classical retinal dystrophy and hyperpigmentation on routine eye exam should suggest the diagnosis of maternally inherited diabetes mellitus and deafness. Once suspected the diagnosis of MIDD should be confirmed by genetic testing for the mitochondrial DNA point mutation at position 3243 (A>G). This is usually initially carried out on blood cells but if negative, urinary cells or skeletal muscle can be tested and if necessary one can test for other mutations that cause similar phenotypes ( 12 ). Once a diagnosis is confirmed first-degree family members at risk should be screened for the mutation and provided with genetic counseling. For those carrying the mutation without clinical manifestations, screening for diabetes and monitoring of kidney function, hearing, and cardiac function should be carried out. GENETIC DEFECTS IN INSULIN ACTION Overview of Insulin Receptor Defects Mutations in the insulin receptor can cause different degrees of insulin resistance but do not need to be associated with diabetes per se ( 13 ). A large number of different mutations have been described and they can be classified as mutations that prevent synthesis of the receptor, inhibit transport of the receptor to the plasma membrane, decrease insulin binding to the receptor, impair transmembrane signaling, or increase receptor degradation ( 14 ). Pancreatic beta cell hyperplasia and hyperinsulinemia can compensate for the insulin resistance preventing hyperglycemia. Fasting hypoglycemia and postprandial hyperglycemia may be observed. Over time the beta cells’ ability
