Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


14 ). Pancreatic beta cell hyperplasia and hyperinsulinemia can compensate for the insulin resistance preventing hyperglycemia. Fasting hypoglycemia and postprandial hyperglycemia may be observed. Over time the beta cells’ ability to secrete insulin diminishes and frank diabetes usually develops. Treatment of the diabetes may require very high doses of insulin ( 15 ). Unfortunately, insulin sensitizers have not been very effective in patients with insulin receptor defects. In contrast to the typical patients with insulin resistance, obesity, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and fatty liver are not usually present ( 15 , 16 ). Acanthosis nigricans, pigmentation in the neck or axillae, is a visible sign of severe insulin resistance ( 13 , 15 ). In females, severe insulin resistance is usually associated with hyperandrogenism, oligomenorrhea or amenorrhea, anovulation, hirsutism, acne, and masculinization ( 13 , 15 ). It is hypothesized that ovarian dysfunction and acanthosis nigricans are due to high levels of insulin acting via the IGF1 receptors ( 16 ). The amount of residual insulin receptor function determines the specific syndrome in patients with insulin receptor mutations ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Insulin Receptor Mutation Syndromes (Modified from reference ( 13 )). Severe disorders are usually homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations while milder forms are often heterozygotes. Type A Insulin Resistance This autosomal dominant disorder includes patients with severe insulin resistance and acanthosis nigricans ( 13 , 15 ). Patients have normal growth and females show ovarian hyperandrogenism that typically presents in the peripubertal period ( 15 ). In females, hyperglycemia develops after ovarian hyperandrogenism and acanthosis nigricans. Males display only acanthosis nigricans and they often remain undiagnosed even after the development of symptomatic diabetes, which may not occur until the patients are adults. These patients have mutations in the insulin receptor gene that decreases the activity of the insulin receptor ( 14 , 15 ). In addition, mutations in transcription factors that stimulate the expression of insulin receptors can lead to a similar phenotype as mutations in the insulin receptor ( 13 , 16 ). Inherited defects in pathways downstream of the insulin receptor can also lead to clinical abnormalities similar to mutations in the insulin receptor ( 13 , 16 ). Donohue Syndrome (Leprechaunism) Donohue syndrome is a rare congenital (1:1,000,000), autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by very severe insulin resistance due to mutations in the insulin receptor gene, dysmorphic features such as protuberant and low-set ears, flaring nostrils
