Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


rare congenital (1:1,000,000), autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by very severe insulin resistance due to mutations in the insulin receptor gene, dysmorphic features such as protuberant and low-set ears, flaring nostrils and thick lips, growth retardation, failure to thrive, and early death ( 14 ). The name leprechaunism relates to the elfin features of those affected. Clinical features include in addition to acanthosis nigricans, hypertrichosis, hirsutism, dysmorphic facies, breast enlargement, abdominal distension, and lipoatrophy. Patients have extremely high levels of insulin and can develop impaired glucose tolerance or overt diabetes. The prognosis for infants with this condition is very poor and most will die in the first year of life. When parents, who are heterozygous for mutations in the insulin receptor are studied, many of these individuals are insulin resistant ( 14 ). Rabson-Mendenhall Syndrome The Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome represents another disorder of extreme insulin resistance ( 15 ). This autosomal recessive syndrome is associated with mutations in the insulin receptor gene ( 13 ). Initially fasting hypoglycemia, postprandial hyperglycemia, and marked hyperinsulinemia may be observed ( 13 ). When beta-cells decompensate, hyperglycemia may become very difficult to treat. Clinical features include in addition to acanthosis nigricans, phallic enlargement, precocious pseudopuberty, short stature, and abnormal teeth, hair, and nails ( 14 , 15 ). Hyperplasia of the pineal gland is an unusual feature ( 14 ). Prognosis is poor as diabetes is difficult to control even with high insulin doses ( 14 ). Hyperglycemia leads to microvascular disease and/or diabetic ketoacidosis resulting in death in the second and third decades of life ( 13 ). Leptin administration has resulted in an improvement in this syndrome ( 17 , 18 ). DISEASES OF THE PANCREAS Diseases that destroy the pancreas can cause diabetes even in individuals who do not have risk factors for diabetes ( 19 ). In the medical literature this is often referred to as Type 3C diabetes. Acquired causes of damage to the pancreas include pancreatitis, trauma, infection, pancreatic carcinoma, and pancreatectomy. Inherited disorders that affect the endocrine pancreas, such as hemochromatosis, thalassemia, and cystic fibrosis, can also cause insulin deficiency and diabetes. The distribution of causes for diabetes secondary to pancreatic disorders in one study was chronic pancreatitis (79%), pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (8%), hemochromatosis (7%), cystic fibrosis (4%), and previous pancreatic surgery (2%) ( 20 ). The prevalence of diabetes secondary to pancreatic disease is estimated to range from
