Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (8%), hemochromatosis (7%), cystic fibrosis (4%), and previous pancreatic surgery (2%) ( 20 ). The prevalence of diabetes secondary to pancreatic disease is estimated to range from 1% to 9% and likely will depend on the patient population studied ( 21 ). In a population study carried out in New Zealand the prevalence of diabetes secondary to pancreatic disorders was close to that of T1D ( 22 ). Pancreatitis Pancreatitis may lead to the destruction of the beta cells due to inflammation and irreversible ﬁbrotic damage ( 23 ). In addition to destroying the beta cells, pancreatitis also leads to the destruction of glucagon secreting alpha-cells and pancreatic polypeptide secreting cells ( 23 ). The decrease in insulin secretion is the primary mechanism leading to hyperglycemia. In addition, the decrease in secretion of pancreatic polypeptide leads to a decrease in hepatic insulin sensitivity resulting in increased hepatic glucose production ( 21 , 23 , 24 ). Nutrient malabsorption that occurs secondary to pancreatitis leads to impaired incretin secretion that can result in diminished insulin release by the remaining beta-cells ( 25 ). Acute pancreatitis can induce transient hyperglycemia (stress hyperglycemia) that can last for several weeks or permanent hyperglycemia ( 21 , 26 , 27 ). The risk of developing diabetes after acute pancreatitis is increased after severe pancreatitis, hypertriglyceridemia or alcohol as the etiology of pancreatitis, and the occurrence of pancreatic necrosis ( 28 ). Other predictors of the development of diabetes include obesity, a family history of diabetes, exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, history of pancreatic surgery, pancreatic calcifications, and long duration of pancreatitis ( 29 ). The prevalence of diabetes secondary to pancreatitis varies greatly with studies in North America estimating a prevalence of 0.5%-1.15% whereas in Southeast Asia, where tropical or fibrocalcific pancreatitis is endemic, a prevalence of approximately 15%-20% has been reported ( 23 ) (see chapter in Tropical Endocrinology Section of Endotext entitled “Fibrocalculous Pancreatic Diabetes” for an in depth discussion of this entity ( 7 ). Recently, data from the UK Royal College of General Practitioners Research and Surveillance Centre found 559 cases of diabetes following pancreatic disease in 31,789 cases of adults newly diagnosed with diabetes (1.8%) ( 30 ). Most cases of diabetes following pancreatic disease were classified as T2D ( 30 ). In another study approximately 50% of the patients with diabetes secondary to pancreatitis were not recognized and
