Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


cases of diabetes following pancreatic disease were classified as T2D ( 30 ). In another study approximately 50% of the patients with diabetes secondary to pancreatitis were not recognized and were incorrectly thought to have T2D. It is very likely that many cases of diabetes secondary to pancreatitis are not recognized to be due to pancreatic disease. The prevalence of diabetes in patients with diagnosed pancreatitis has ranged between 26-80%, depending on the cohort and duration of follow up ( 21 , 23 , 31 ). The prevalence of diabetes increases with the duration of pancreatitis and early onset of calcific disease ( 23 ). Because of the high risk of diabetes in patients with pancreatitis these patients should be periodically screened for the presence of diabetes with measurement of fasting glucose and/or A1c levels. At times it can be difficult to distinguish diabetes secondary to pancreatitis from T1D or T2D. The following diagnostic criteria have been proposed ( Table 2 ) ( 23 ). Table 2. Proposed Diagnostic Criteria for Diabetes Secondary to Pancreatitis View in own window Major Criteria (must be present) Presence of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency (monoclonal fecal elastase-1 test or direct function tests) Pathological pancreatic imaging (endoscopic ultrasound, MRI, CT) Absence of T1D associated autoimmune markers Minor Criteria Absent pancreatic polypeptide secretion Impaired incretin secretion (e.g., GLP-1) No excessive insulin resistance (e.g., HOMA-IR) Impaired beta cell function (e.g., HOMA-B, C-Peptide/glucose-ratio) Low serum levels of lipid soluble vitamins (A, D, E and K) It should be recognized that these proposed criteria have not been rigorously tested nor are all criteria available in routine clinical practice. In addition, there are a number of key considerations. First, long-standing T1D and T2D are associated with exocrine pancreatic failure ( 32 ). It has been estimated that 26% to 74% of patients with T1D and 28% to 36% of patients with T2D have evidence of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency ( 19 ). Second, patients with diabetes are at a higher risk for developing acute and/or chronic pancreatitis ( 33 ). Lastly, patients with previous episodes of pancreatitis may also develop T1D or T2D independently of their exocrine pancreatic disease. When diabetes occurs in patients with a pre-existing diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis it is likely that pancreatitis is an important contributor to the development of diabetes. Testing for T1D associated autoimmune markers can be helpful in separating T1D from diabetes secondary to pancreatic
