Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


is likely that pancreatitis is an important contributor to the development of diabetes. Testing for T1D associated autoimmune markers can be helpful in separating T1D from diabetes secondary to pancreatic disease. The presence of islet cell antibodies supports the diagnosis of T1D. The pancreatic polypeptide response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia, secretin-infusion, or a mixed nutrient ingestion can be helpful in separating T2D from diabetes secondary to pancreatic disease. Patients with diabetes secondary to pancreatitis have an absent or reduced pancreatic polypeptide response while patients with T2D have an elevated pancreatic polypeptide response ( 23 , 31 ). Studies have shown that pancreatic polypeptide regulates hepatic insulin sensitivity and the absence of pancreatic polypeptide leads to hepatic insulin resistance and enhances hepatic glucose production, which could contribute to the abnormal glucose metabolism that occurs with pancreatic disease ( 21 ). In patients with diabetes secondary to pancreatitis hyperglycemia can be mild to very severe depending upon the degree of pancreatic destruction leading to impaired insulin production and secretion ( 19 , 21 , 23 ). Glycemic control may be unstable due to the loss of glucagon secretion in response to hypoglycemia, carbohydrate malabsorption, and inconsistent food intake due to pain and/or nausea secondary to pancreatitis (i.e., “brittle diabetes”) ( 19 , 21 , 23 ). Whether glycemic control is worse in patients with diabetes secondary to pancreatitis is uncertain as older studies reported worse glycemic control and more recent studies have reported that glycemic control was similar to other patients with diabetes ( 19 ). The ability to obtain good glycemic control is likely to be related to the degree of pancreatic insufficiency with patients with a total absence of pancreatic function being more difficult to control. In patients with relatively mild diabetes treatment with metformin is indicated. A nationwide cohort study in New Zealand and Denmark reported that metformin increased survival in patients with post pancreatitis diabetes ( 34 , 35 ). The GI side effects (nausea, abdominal complaints, diarrhea) of metformin may not be tolerable in some patients with pancreatitis. In observational studies metformin therapy has been associated with a reduction in the development of pancreatic cancer in patients with diabetes ( 36 ). Given the increased risk of pancreatic cancer in patients with diabetes and/or pancreatitis, a reduction in the development of pancreatic cancer would be a potential added benefit of metformin therapy ( 37 - 39 ). There
