Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


cancer in patients with diabetes and/or pancreatitis, a reduction in the development of pancreatic cancer would be a potential added benefit of metformin therapy ( 37 - 39 ). There are conflicting data on whether treatment with DPP4-inhibitors or GLP1-analogues can cause pancreatitis, but until this issue has been unequivocally settled, it is wise to refrain from using these drugs in patients who have had pancreatitis without a clear reversible etiology (for example, gallstone pancreatitis status post cholecystectomy). Note that two meta-analyses have demonstrated an 80% increased risk of acute pancreatitis in patients using DPP-4 inhibitors compared with those receiving standard care ( 40 , 41 ). In contrast, meta-analyses of large cardiovascular outcome studies have not demonstrated an increase in pancreatitis in patients treated with GLP-1 receptor agonists, but these studies typically excluded patients with a history of pancreatitis ( 42 , 43 ). Thiazolidinediones should probably be avoided as patients with pancreatitis and malabsorption are at increased risk for osteoporosis and thiazolidinediones may potentiate this problem. Chronic pancreatitis is a progressive disease and therefore it is likely that glycemic control will worsen overtime and most patients will eventually require insulin therapy ( 23 ). Many patients will have severe insulin deficiency and will need to be treated with insulin therapy using regimens employed in patients with T1D. Because of the absence of glucagon secretion patients with diabetes secondary to pancreatitis are more susceptible to severe hypoglycemia with insulin therapy but diabetic ketoacidosis is not commonly observed due to the absence of glucagon. Patients with diabetes secondary to pancreatitis are at risk for microvascular complications and lower extremity arterial disease and therefore routine testing for eye disease, kidney disease, foot ulcers, and neuropathy should be instituted ( 44 - 47 ). Finally, it should be recognized that patients with diabetes secondary to pancreatitis will almost always have exocrine pancreatic insufficiency ( 31 ). Many patients with chronic pancreatitis manifest fat malabsorption without symptoms and therefore a thorough evaluation is required. Oral pancreatic enzyme replacement is beneficial for these patients. Of note, pancreatic enzyme supplementation can improve incretin secretion and thereby may benefit glycemic control ( 21 , 25 , 48 ). Fat soluble vitamin deficiency commonly occurs (Vitamin A, D, and K) and many patients require supplementation with fat-soluble vitamins. Pancreatectomy The metabolic abnormalities that occur after pancreatic surgery depend on the amount and area of the pancreas removed
