Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


D, and K) and many patients require supplementation with fat-soluble vitamins. Pancreatectomy The metabolic abnormalities that occur after pancreatic surgery depend on the amount and area of the pancreas removed and whether the remaining pancreas is normal or diseased ( 24 ). The basis for this variability is due to the distribution of β and non-β islet cell types in the pancreas. Islet density is relatively low in the head of the pancreas and gradually increases through the body toward the tail region by greater than 2-fold and thus α- and β-cells predominate in the tail. In contrast, the cells that secrete pancreatic polypeptide are mainly localized in the head of the pancreas. Distal pancreatectomy usually causes little change in the metabolic status unless more than 50% of parenchyma is excised in patients with diffuse disease or more than 80% in patients with normal pancreatic function ( 24 ). The risk of a patient developing diabetes after a distal pancreatectomy varies greatly ( 24 , 49 ). The risk of new diabetes is reduced with central pancreatectomy compared to distal pancreatectomy ( 50 ). Resection of the head of the pancreas results in a decrease in pancreatic polypeptide, hepatic insulin resistance, and fasting hyperglycemia. Approximately 20% of patients develop diabetes after resection of the head of the pancreas ( 24 ). It should also be recognized that removal of pancreatic tissue can accelerate the development of T2D by decreasing insulin secretion in patients with impaired glucose metabolism ( 51 ). Patients who have undergone total surgical pancreatectomy have a deficiency of insulin, glucagon, and pancreatic polypeptide and require insulin treatment. In general, there are several differences from typical T1D, including exocrine deficiency, low insulin requirements, and a higher risk of hypoglycemia due to the decrease in glucagon, which stimulates hepatic glucose production (glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis). Pancreatectomized patients are prone to hypoglycemia and a delayed recovery from hypoglycemia. In an evaluation of 180 patients post total pancreatectomy 42% experienced one or more hypoglycemic events on a monthly basis ( 52 ). In addition to treatment with insulin, pancreatic enzyme supplements are always needed. SGLT2 inhibitors and GLP-1 receptor agonists have been shown to improve glycemic control in patients with diabetes post pancreatectomy ( 53 , 54 ). GLP-1 receptor agonists improve postprandial glycemia by decreasing gastric emptying and reducing postprandial responses of gut-derived glucagon ( 54 ). Intraportal islet auto transplantation
