Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


pancreatectomy ( 53 , 54 ). GLP-1 receptor agonists improve postprandial glycemia by decreasing gastric emptying and reducing postprandial responses of gut-derived glucagon ( 54 ). Intraportal islet auto transplantation has been used to prevent the development of diabetes with total pancreatectomy and/or reduce the risk of developing difficult to control diabetes ( 55 - 57 ). Pancreatic Cancer A high percentage of patients with pancreatic carcinoma have diabetes ( 21 , 58 ). In one study 68% of patients with pancreatic cancer also had diabetes ( 59 ). The prevalence of diabetes in patients with pancreatic cancer is much higher than in other common malignancies ( 58 , 59 ). In patients with pancreatic cancer who also have diabetes, the diagnosis of diabetes occurred less than 2 years prior to the diagnosis of pancreatic cancer in 74% of patients ( 60 ). In a population-based study less than 1% of patients over the age of 50 with newly diagnosed diabetes were diagnosed with pancreatic cancer within 3 years ( 61 ). In a study of 115 patients over 50 years of age who were hospitalized for new-onset diabetes 5.6% were found to have a pancreatic cancer ( 62 ). Many patients with pancreatic cancer lose weight and therefore deteriorating glycemic control in conjunction with weight loss and anorexia should raise the possibility of an occult pancreatic cancer ( 58 , 63 ). Other clues to the presence of pancreatic cancer in a patient with new onset diabetes are the lack of a family history of diabetes, a BMI < 25, recent thromboembolism, history of pancreatitis, GI symptoms, and the absence of features of the metabolic syndrome such as dyslipidemia and hypertension. Given the high incidence of diabetes relative to the incidence of pancreatic cancer the routine screening of all patients who develop diabetes is not cost effective. However, in selected patients with the features described above screening is appropriate. Conversely, long standing T2D increases the risk of developing pancreatic cancer by approximately 1.5 to 2-fold indicating a bidirectional relationship ( 24 , 58 , 64 ). This risk may persist even after adjustment for obesity and smoking, risk factors for pancreatic cancer. Diabetes is both a risk factor for the development of pancreatic cancer and a complication of pancreatic cancer. As discussed above diabetes may develop secondary to chronic pancreatitis. Chronic pancreatitis increases the risk of pancreatic cancer. Thus,
