Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


the development of pancreatic cancer and a complication of pancreatic cancer. As discussed above diabetes may develop secondary to chronic pancreatitis. Chronic pancreatitis increases the risk of pancreatic cancer. Thus, patients with diabetes secondary to chronic pancreatitis are at a higher risk of developing pancreatic cancer ( 65 ). The strongest evidence linking pancreatic cancer with incident diabetes is the beneficial effects of cancer resection on glycemic control ( 58 ). In a small study in 7 patients, Permert and colleagues reported an improvement in diabetes status and glucose metabolism after subtotal pancreatectomy ( 66 ). Similarly, Pannala and colleagues in a larger study reported that after pancreaticoduodenectomy, diabetes resolved in 17 of 30 patients (57%) with new-onset diabetes but was unaffected in patients with longstanding diabetes ( 60 ). Litwin and colleagues noted similar improvements in glucose metabolism after surgery in patients with pancreatic cancer but a deterioration in patients with chronic pancreatitis ( 67 ). Finally, studies have also shown that a good response to chemotherapy in patients with pancreatic cancer can also improve glucose levels ( 68 ). Taken together these results demonstrate a benefit from tumor removal and suggest that new-onset diabetes associated with pancreatic cancer may be a paraneoplastic phenomenon. The mechanism accounting for the development of new onset diabetes by pancreatic cancers is unknown ( 58 ). In contrast to other pancreatic disorders the etiology of diabetes is not due to destruction of the pancreas as patients with new onset diabetes and pancreatic cancer have hyperinsulinemia rather than low insulin levels and as noted above the diabetes improves after resection ( 21 ). Additionally, pancreatic cancers may be very small and thus unlikely to cause pancreatic insufficiency. Pancreatic cancer is associated with insulin resistance but the factors leading to insulin resistance are unknown ( 21 ). In patients with pancreatic cancer the main goal of the treatment of diabetes is to prevent the short- term metabolic complications and facilitate the ability of the patient to tolerate treatment of the pancreatic cancer (surgery and chemotherapy). Given the poor survival of patients with pancreatic cancer, prevention of the long-term sequelae of diabetes is not a major focus. Metformin is a preferred hypoglycemic agent because there are observational studies suggesting that metformin may improve survival in patients with pancreatic cancer ( 69 - 71 ). However, randomized trials have failed to demonstrate the benefit of metformin therapy
