Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


observational studies suggesting that metformin may improve survival in patients with pancreatic cancer ( 69 - 71 ). However, randomized trials have failed to demonstrate the benefit of metformin therapy in patients with pancreatic cancer ( 72 , 73 ). Hemochromatosis Hemochromatosis is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by increased iron absorption by the GI tract and increased total body iron stores ( 74 ). The excess iron is sequestered in many different tissues including the liver, skin, heart, and pancreas. The classic triad of hemochromatosis is diabetes mellitus, hepatomegaly, and increased skin pigmentation (“bronze diabetes”), but clinical features also include gonadal failure, arthropathy, and cardiomyopathy ( 74 ). In early studies diabetes was present in over 50% of patients with hemochromatosis ( 75 , 76 ). More recently the prevalence of diabetes in patients with hemochromatosis has decreased to approximately 20% of patients, presumably due to the early diagnosis and treatment of hemochromatosis due to genetic testing ( 75 - 78 ). In patients with hemochromatosis screening for the presence of diabetes should be periodically carried out. Diabetes was typically observed in persons who also had severe iron overload and cirrhosis ( 76 ). It should be noted that iron overload from any cause can result in diabetes ( 79 ). For example, patients with thalassemia develop iron overload due to the need for frequent transfusions ( 80 , 81 ). The prevalence of diabetes in patients with thalassemia has been declining since the more aggressive and widespread use of iron chelation therapy ( 81 ). There are two abnormalities that lead to abnormal glucose metabolism in patients with hemochromatosis and iron overload ( 75 ). First, iron overload leads to beta cell damage with decreased insulin production and secretion. Pathologic examination revealed hemosiderin deposition and iron-induced fibrosis of the islets ( 76 ). The decrease in insulin secretion is the primary defect leading to the development of diabetes ( 75 , 76 , 78 ). Of note glucagon secretion does not appear to be deficient in patients with diabetes and hemochromatosis suggesting that the iron overload has a preferential toxicity for beta cells compared to alpha cells ( 76 , 82 , 83 ). Similarly, basal and stimulated pancreatic polypeptide levels are also not decreased in diabetic patients with hemochromatosis ( 84 ). Thus, the hormonal abnormalities differ in patients with iron overload induced diabetes compared to patients
