Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


pancreatic polypeptide levels are also not decreased in diabetic patients with hemochromatosis ( 84 ). Thus, the hormonal abnormalities differ in patients with iron overload induced diabetes compared to patients with pancreatitis induced diabetes. The second abnormality is insulin resistance that occurs due to iron overload hepatic damage and/or secondary to obesity ( 75 , 76 ). In addition, a genetic predisposition to diabetes potentiates the development of metabolic dysfunction. Many patients with hemochromatosis and diabetes have a relative with diabetes ( 85 ). The typical micro and macrovascular complications of diabetes occur in patients with hemochromatosis ( 76 , 85 ). In a study by Griffiths and colleagues, 11 of 49 patients with hemochromatosis and diabetes had diabetic retinopathy ( 86 ). Sixty percent of the patients with hemochromatosis who had diabetes for greater than 10 years had retinopathy. The incidence of retinopathy is similar to that observed in the general diabetes population ( 85 , 86 ). Similarly, Becker and Miller observed that 7 of 22 patients with diabetes and hemochromatosis had pathologic evidence of diabetic glomerulopathy ( 87 ). The treatment of hemochromatosis by phlebotomy has a variable impact on glucose metabolism ( 75 ). In patients who do not yet have complications or organ damage an improvement of insulin secretory capacity and normalization of glucose tolerance has been observed ( 75 , 76 ). Glucose metabolism often improves in patients with impaired glucose tolerance ( 75 , 88 ). In patients with diabetes improvement in glucose metabolism by phlebotomy may occur but is not as common as in “pre-diabetics” ( 75 , 88 , 89 ). In one study 28% of patients with diabetes and hemochromatosis on insulin or oral agents showed improved glucose control following phlebotomy therapy ( 90 ). Cystic Fibrosis Cystic Fibrosis is an autosomal recessive disorder due to a defect in the chloride transport channel ( 91 ). Cystic fibrosis related diabetes is rare in children but is present in approximately 20% of adolescents and 40-50% of adults with cystic fibrosis ( 92 , 93 ). As patients with cystic fibrosis live longer it is likely that the number of patients with cystic fibrosis and diabetes will increase. The development of diabetes is associated with more severe cystic fibrosis gene mutations, increasing age, worse pulmonary function, undernutrition, liver dysfunction, pancreatic insufﬁciency, a family history of diabetes, female gender, and corticosteroid use (
