Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


is associated with more severe cystic fibrosis gene mutations, increasing age, worse pulmonary function, undernutrition, liver dysfunction, pancreatic insufﬁciency, a family history of diabetes, female gender, and corticosteroid use ( 92 , 93 ). The primary defect in patients with cystic fibrosis related diabetes is decreased insulin production and secretion due to ﬁbrosis and atrophy of the pancreas with a reduction of islet mass ( 92 ). In addition, mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator gene may have direct effects on the ability of beta cells to secrete insulin ( 93 , 94 ). Beta cell dysfunction is not complete with residual insulin secretion and thus patients with cystic fibrosis related diabetes do not typically develop ketosis ( 92 ). Reduced alpha cell mass also occurs so while fasting glucagon levels are normal, glucagon secretion in response to hypoglycemia is impaired ( 92 ). Peripheral and hepatic insulin resistance may also occur secondary to infections, inflammation, and cirrhosis ( 93 ). Some of the clinical features of cystic fibrosis related diabetes are similar to T1D as patients are young, not obese, insulin deficiency is the primary defect, and features of the metabolic syndrome (hyperlipidemia, hypertension, visceral adiposity) are not usually present ( 92 ). However, cystic fibrosis related diabetes is not an autoimmune disease (islet cell antibodies are not present) and ketosis is rare because endogenous insulin is still produced ( 92 ). Fasting glucose levels are often normal initially with elevated postprandial glucose levels due to a reduced and delayed insulin response to carbohydrates while basal insulin is often adequate to maintain normal fasting glucose levels ( 95 ). Patients with cystic fibrosis related diabetes are not at high risk of developing atherosclerosis and heart disease is not a major issue ( 92 - 94 ). This is likely due to malabsorption leading to low life-long plasma cholesterol levels and the shortened length of life ( 92 , 93 ). As life expectancy increases and medical therapy with Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Regulator (CFTR) modulators improves, the risk of macrovascular disease may increase. Microvascular complications do occur in cystic fibrosis related diabetes and are related to the duration of diabetes and glycemic control ( 92 , 93 , 95 ). The American Diabetes Association recommends screening for complications of diabetes beginning 5 years after the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis related diabetes ( 96 ) Lung disease is a
