Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


95 ). The American Diabetes Association recommends screening for complications of diabetes beginning 5 years after the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis related diabetes ( 96 ) Lung disease is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with cystic fibrosis and both insulin insufﬁciency and hyperglycemia negatively affect cystic fibrosis lung disease ( 97 ). Numerous studies have shown that the occurrence of diabetes in patients with cystic fibrosis is associated with more severe lung disease and increased mortality and this adverse effect disproportionately affects women ( 92 , 95 , 97 ). In patients with cystic fibrosis lung function is critically dependent on maintaining normal weight and lean body mass. Insulin deficiency leads to a catabolic state with the loss of protein and fat ( 92 ). Multiple studies have shown that insulin replacement therapy improves nutritional status and pulmonary function in patients with cystic fibrosis related diabetes ( 92 ). In addition, elevated blood glucose levels result in elevated blood glucose levels in the airways, which promotes the growth of pathogenic microorganisms and increases pulmonary infections ( 92 , 95 ). Of note recent studies have shown that the marked increase in mortality in patients with cystic fibrosis related diabetes compared to patients with cystic fibrosis only has decreased ( 98 ). It is likely that early diagnosis and aggressive treatment have improved survival in patients with cystic fibrosis related diabetes. Because of the adverse effects of diabetes on lung function in patients with cystic fibrosis routine screening for diabetes is recommended ( 97 ). It is recommended that annual screening begin at age 10 ( 97 ). While fasting glucose and A1c levels are routine screening tests for diabetes, in patients with cystic fibrosis these tests are not sensitive enough ( 97 ). Fasting glucose and A1c testing will fail to diagnose approximately 50% of patients with cystic fibrosis related diabetes ( 94 , 97 ). However, recent studies have suggested that a screening A1c >5.5% would detect more than 90% of patients with diabetes and therefore with further confirming studies measuring A1c levels could become an initial screening approach ( 96 ). As noted above, abnormalities in postprandial glucose characterizes cystic fibrosis related diabetes and it is therefore recommended that an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) be utilized for the diagnosis of diabetes in patients with cystic fibrosis ( 97 ). Studies have shown that
