Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


it is therefore recommended that an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) be utilized for the diagnosis of diabetes in patients with cystic fibrosis ( 97 ). Studies have shown that the diagnosis of diabetes by OGTT correlates with clinically important cystic fibrosis outcomes including the rate of lung function decline, the risk of microvascular complications, and the risk of early death ( 97 ). Moreover, the OGTT identiﬁed patients who beneﬁted from insulin therapy ( 97 ). Additional screening recommendations are shown in Table 3 and the interpretation of these tests are shown in Table 4 . Table 3. ADA and Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Recommendations for Screening for Cystic Fibrosis Related Diabetes (CFRD) ( 97 ) View in own window 1) The use of A1C as a screening test for CFRD is not recommended. 2) Screening for CFRD should be performed using a 2-h 75-g OGTT. 3) Annual screening for CFRD should begin by age 10 years in all CF patients who do not have CFRD. 4) CF patients with acute pulmonary exacerbation requiring intravenous antibiotics and/or systemic glucocorticoids should be screened for CFRD by monitoring fasting and 2-h postprandial plasma glucose levels for the ﬁrst 48 h. If elevated blood glucose levels are found by SMBG, the results must be conﬁrmed by a certiﬁed laboratory. 5) Screening for CFRD by measuring mid- and immediate post-feeding plasma glucose levels is recommended for CF patients on continuous enteral feedings, at the time of gastrostomy feeding initiation, and then monthly by SMBG. Elevated glucose levels detected by SMBG must be conﬁrmed by a certiﬁed laboratory. 6) Women with CF who are planning a pregnancy or conﬁrmed pregnant should be screened for preexisting CFRD with a 2-h 75-g fasting OGTT if they have not had a normal CFRD screen in the last 6 months. 7) Screening for gestational diabetes mellitus is recommended at both 12–16 weeks’ and 24–28 weeks’ gestation in pregnant women with CF not known to have CFRD, using a 2-h 75-g OGTT with blood glucose measures at 0, 1, and 2 h. 8) Screening for CFRD using a 2-h 75-g fasting OGTT is recommended 6–12 weeks after the end of the pregnancy in women with gestational diabetes mellitus (diabetes ﬁrst diagnosed during pregnancy). 9) CF patients not known to have diabetes who are undergoing any transplantation procedure should be screened preoperatively by OGTT if they have not had CFRD screening
