Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


plasma glucose >153 mg/dl (8.5 mmol/l) CF patients with gestational diabetes mellitus are not considered to have CFRD, but require CFRD screening 6–12 weeks after the end of the pregnancy. 5) The onset of CFRD should be deﬁned as the date a person with CF ﬁrst meets diagnostic criteria, even if hyperglycemia subsequently abates. CF= cystic fibrosis; CRFD= cystic fibrosis related diabetes; OGTT= oral glucose tolerance test. There is evidence that elevations in glucose below the levels typically used to diagnose diabetes result in adverse effects on the lungs ( 95 ). Thus, some experts recommend that treatment should be considered for individuals with abnormal glucose levels which do not meet the criteria for diabetes if there is evidence of declining lung function or weight loss ( 95 ). A unique feature in the treatment of patients with cystic fibrosis related diabetes is that insulin is the treatment of choice in all patients ( 97 ). Studies have shown that cystic fibrosis patients on insulin therapy who achieve good glycemic control demonstrate improvement in weight, protein anabolism, pulmonary function, and survival ( 97 ). No specific insulin treatment regimen is recommended, and the regimen should be individualized for the patient. For example, a patient with elevated postprandial glucose levels will benefit from mealtime rapid acting insulin. It should be noted that patients with cystic fibrosis induced diabetes still have endogenous insulin production, which allows for the achievement of good glycemic control. Oral diabetes agents are not as effective as insulin in improving nutritional and metabolic outcomes and therefore are not recommended ( 97 ). However, in patients who do not tolerate insulin (for example frequent hypoglycemia), oral agents, such as DPP4 inhibitors, may be beneficial ( 99 ). For most patients with cystic fibrosis related diabetes an A1c < 7% is recommended but the A1c goal can be higher or lower for certain patients based on clinical judgement. Also of note is that cystic fibrosis patients require a high-calorie, high-salt, high-fat diet. Ivacaftor, a Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Conductance Regulator modulator, is a relatively new agent to treat cystic fibrosis and has been shown to partially reverse the disease. Interestingly in case reports ivacaftor has been shown to markedly improve glycemic control ( 93 , 100 ). In a recent retrospective observation study approximately 1/3 of patients with CFRD had either a resolution of their diabetes or marked improvement with ivacaftor
