Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


control ( 93 , 100 ). In a recent retrospective observation study approximately 1/3 of patients with CFRD had either a resolution of their diabetes or marked improvement with ivacaftor therapy ( 101 ). Additionally, the risk of developing CFRD is decreased in patients treated with ivacaftor ( 102 ). Studies using three Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Regulator (CFTR) modulators (elexacaftor /tezacaftor/ ivacaftor) improved glycemic control and reduced insulin requirements ( 103 - 105 ). These beneficial effects are likely to be due to an improvement in insulin secretion and/or insulin sensitivity ( 93 , 106 , 107 ). Note the response to these Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Regulator (CFTR) modulators depends on the specific mutation causing cystic fibrosis ( 107 ). INFECTIONS Viral Infections Viral infections, particularly enterovirus and herpes virus infections, have been postulated to play a role in triggering the autoimmune reaction that leads to the development of T1D ( 108 - 111 ). This phenomenon is discussed in detail in the Endotext chapter on changing the course of the disease in T1D ( 112 ). A phase 2 study with the anti-viral agents, pleconaril and ribavirin, demonstrated preservation of residual insulin production in children and adolescents with new-onset T1D ( 113 ). In rare instances a viral infection has been associated with the fulminant development of diabetes due to the destruction of beta cells ( 114 ). For a review of the link of viral infections with the development of diabetes see a review by Jeremiah and colleagues ( 111 ). Congenital Rubella Congenital rubella infection has been shown to predispose to the development of T1D that usually presents before five years of age ( 115 ). It has been estimated that approximately 1-6% of individuals with the rubella syndrome will develop diabetes in childhood or adolescence ( 115 , 116 ). The mechanism for this association is unknown. In addition, studies have also shown that patients with congenital rubella also develop T2D ( 116 ). In one series 22% of individuals with congenital rubella developed diabetes later in life ( 116 ). Fortunately, with increased vaccinations, congenital rubella has become a disease of the past in developed countries. Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) Meta-analyses and large database studies have demonstrated that hepatitis V virus (HCV) infection is associated with an increased risk of T2D ( 117 - 122 ). In a meta-analysis of 34 studies the risk of
