Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


increased risk was still elevated by approximately 30% 1 year after the COVID-19 infection ( 143 ). The risk of developing T2D is highest soon after COVID-19 infection (four times higher during the first 4 weeks) and 60% of those diagnosed with T2D after COVID-19 still had evidence of diabetes 4 months after infection (i.e. persistent T2D) ( 143 ). The risk of developing T1D was elevated but this increase was no longer seen one year after the COVID-19 infection ( 143 ). The increased risk of developing both T1D and T2D was greater in people who were hospitalized with COVID-19 and therefore the risk of developing diabetes was reduced, but not entirely ameliorated, in vaccinated individuals compared with unvaccinated people ( 143 ). The absolute risk of developing diabetes was greatest in patients at increased risk for diabetes (obesity, certain ethnic groups, individuals with “prediabetes”, etc. ( 143 ). The mechanisms that account for an increased risk of diabetes following COVID-19 infections are unresolved. There are a number of suggested mechanisms. 1. Diabetes could be secondary to acute illness and stress induced hyperglycemia. Stress induced hyperglycemia has been observed after other acute conditions including other infections ( 137 , 144 ). 2. Pre-existing diabetes could first be recognized during a COVID-19 infection or during follow-up. This could account for some of the patients that appear to develop new T2D as many patients with T2D are unaware that they have diabetes ( 145 ). 3. COVID-19 infection could trigger beta cell autoimmunity. This is particularly relevant to the development of T1D as viral infections have been hypothesized to initiate beta cell autoimmunity ( 112 , 137 ). 4. The SARS-CoV-2 virus could directly damage the beta cells leading to decreased insulin secretion and hyperglycemia ( 137 ). 5. SARS-CoV-2 virus could lead to pancreatitis indirectly affecting beta cell function. 6. The strong immune response that is seen in COVID-19 infections (cytokine storm) could indirectly lead to beta cell dysfunction and insulin resistance. Additionally, elevated cytokines could persist for an extended period leading to insulin resistance and abnormal glucose metabolism ( 146 ) 7. SARS-CoV-2 virus infects adipose tissue and may cause adipose dysfunction (decreased adiponectin and increased insulin resistance) ( 147 , 148 ). Persistent adipose tissue infection could result in inflammation and alteration of adipokines and cytokines leading to diabetes. 8. The use of high dose glucocorticoids in patients
