Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


147 , 148 ). Persistent adipose tissue infection could result in inflammation and alteration of adipokines and cytokines leading to diabetes. 8. The use of high dose glucocorticoids in patients with severe COVID-19 could lead to hyperglycemia and diabetes. 9. Changes in environment that occurred during the COVID-19 pandemic, such as decreased exercise, increased food intake, increased weight gain, etc., could enhance the risk of developing diabetes ( 149 ). Hopefully, future studies will better characterize the mechanisms leading to new onset diabetes in patients with COVID-19 infections and determine whether there are unique mechanisms for this association. ENDOCRINOPATHIES A number of endocrine disorders are associated with an increased occurrence of diabetes ( Table 1 ). Increased levels of growth hormone, glucocorticoids, catecholamines, and glucagon cause insulin resistance while increased levels of catecholamines, somatostatin, and aldosterone (by producing hypokalemia) decrease insulin secretion and hence can adversely affect glucose homeostasis. The disturbance in glucose metabolism occurring secondary to endocrine disorders may vary from a moderate degree of glucose intolerance to overt diabetes with symptomatic hyperglycemia. Additionally, endocrine disorders can worsen glycemic control in patients with pre-existing diabetes. Acromegaly This condition is caused by excessive production of growth hormone (GH) from the pituitary ( 150 ). The prevalence of DM in patients with acromegaly is between 10-40%; the prevalence of diabetes and glucose intolerance effects more than 50% of patients ( 150 - 153 ). As expected, there is an increased prevalence of diabetes with age, elevated BMI, a family history of diabetes, and longer duration of acromegaly ( 151 ). Diabetes may be present at the time of the diagnosis of acromegaly ( 154 ). Higher plasma IGF-1 concentrations correlate with an increased risk of diabetes, suggesting that the biochemical severity of acromegaly influences the risk of developing abnormalities of glucose metabolism ( 155 ). Patients with acromegaly should be screened for abnormalities in glucose metabolism ( 152 ). The prevalence of acromegaly in patients with diabetes is unknown but is likely to be very low given that acromegaly is an uncommon disorder (60 per million) and diabetes is very common ( 150 ). GH is a counter regulatory hormone to insulin and is secreted during hypoglycemia ( 156 , 157 ). In patients with acromegaly insulin resistance is the major abnormality leading to disturbances in glucose metabolism ( 151 , 153 , 154 , 158 ). The insulin resistance is
