Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


). In patients with acromegaly insulin resistance is the major abnormality leading to disturbances in glucose metabolism ( 151 , 153 , 154 , 158 ). The insulin resistance is driven primarily through GH induced lipolysis, which results in glucose-fatty acid substrate competition leading to decreased glucose utilization in muscle ( 151 , 154 , 158 ). Additionally, inhibition of post receptor signaling pathway of the insulin receptor also likely plays a role in the insulin resistance ( 158 ). Increased hepatic gluconeogenesis also contributes to the hyperglycemia ( 151 , 158 ). Lipolysis increases the delivery of glycerol and fatty acids to the liver, which serves as a substrate and energy source for gluconeogenesis. In some patients with acromegaly increased insulin secretion compensates for the insulin resistance and glucose metabolism remains normal ( 151 ). If insulin secretion cannot increase sufficiently to compensate for the insulin resistance glucose intolerance or diabetes develops ( 151 ). Treatment is directed at the cause of the acromegaly ( 150 ). Successful surgical removal of the pituitary adenoma improves hyperglycemia and glucose metabolism has been reported to normalize in 23–58% of people with pre-operative diabetes after surgical cure of acromegaly ( 151 , 152 , 154 ). Lower IGF-1 and growth hormone levels post operatively correlate with remission of diabetes ( 159 ). A meta-analysis of 31 studies with 619 patients treated with somatostatin analogues for acromegaly reported a decrease in insulin levels and glucose levels during a glucose tolerance test but no change in fasting glucose or A1c levels ( 160 ). Another meta-analysis of 47 studies with 1297 participants reported that somatostatin analogues also did not affect fasting plasma glucose but worsened 2 hour oral glucose tolerance test and resulted in a mild but significant increase in HbA1c ( 161 ) The absence of greater benefit in glucose homeostasis with somatostatin analogues could be secondary to somatostatin analogues inhibiting insulin secretion ( 150 ). Of note, while first generation somatostatin analogues appear to have mild or neutral effects on glucose metabolism in patients with acromegaly, treatment with pasireotide, a second-generation somatostatin analogue, aggravated glucose metabolism leading to the development of diabetes in some instances ( 162 - 164 ). The adverse effect of pasireotide is due to inhibiting insulin secretion and decreasing the incretin effect. There is little data on the impact of cabergoline on glucose homeostasis in patients with acromegaly,
