Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


effect of pasireotide is due to inhibiting insulin secretion and decreasing the incretin effect. There is little data on the impact of cabergoline on glucose homeostasis in patients with acromegaly, but the available studies suggest that it modestly improves glucose metabolism or has no effect ( 152 , 165 ). Studies have shown that bromocriptine can improve glucose homeostasis ( 151 , 152 , 166 ). Finally, treatment with the growth hormone receptor antagonist, pegvisomant, has beneficial effects on glucose homeostasis ( 164 , 167 , 168 ). The treatment of diabetes in patients with acromegaly is similar to the treatment in other patients with diabetes ( 151 , 153 ). Patients with acromegaly are often lean with low body fat and therefore dietary recommendations may need to be modified. Additionally, since insulin resistance is the primary defect in patients with acromegaly the use of insulin sensitizers may be especially effective but there are no studies comparing the efficacy of various hypoglycemic agents in patients with acromegaly ( 151 ). Data suggests that active acromegaly with elevated GH levels enhances the development of microvascular disease ( 154 ). The effect of acromegaly on the development of macrovascular disease is unclear ( 154 ). Ketoacidosis is uncommon in patients with diabetes and acromegaly. Cushing’s Syndrome Cushing’s syndrome is due to elevated glucocorticoids that can be caused by the overproduction of ACTH by pituitary adenomas or ectopic ACTH producing tumors, overproduction of glucocorticoids by the adrenal glands due to adenomas or hyperplasia, or the exogenous administration of glucocorticoids ( 169 ). In patients with Cushing’s syndrome diabetes is present in 20-47% of the patients, while impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) is present in 21-64% of cases ( 170 ). Risk factors for the development of diabetes in patients with Cushing syndrome include age, obesity, and a family history of diabetes ( 170 ). The prevalence of diabetes varies depending on the etiology of Cushing’s syndrome (pituitary 33%, ectopic 74%, adrenal 34%) ( 171 ). In patients with endogenous Cushing’s syndrome the relationship of the degree of hypercortisolism and abnormalities in glucose metabolism has been inconsistent with some studies showing a correlation and other studies no relationship ( 172 ). For example, in one study, in patients with endogenous Cushing’s syndrome the prevalence of abnormalities in glucose metabolism and diabetes did not differ in patients with slightly elevated (not greater than 2x the upper
