Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


study, in patients with endogenous Cushing’s syndrome the prevalence of abnormalities in glucose metabolism and diabetes did not differ in patients with slightly elevated (not greater than 2x the upper limit of normal), moderately elevated (2-5X the ULN), and severely elevated (>5x the ULN) levels of urinary free cortisol ( 173 ). In patients with exogenous Cushing’s syndrome high doses of glucocorticoids and longer duration of treatment are more likely to cause diabetes ( 152 , 172 ). Elevated glucocorticoids are more likely to cause high glucose levels in the afternoon or evening and in the postprandial state ( 152 ). Hyperglycemia resulting from exogenous steroids occurs in concert with the time-action profile of the steroid regimen employed, such that once daily morning administration of an intermediate acting steroid (prednisone or methylprednisone) causes peak hyperglycemia within 12 hours (post-prandial) while long-acting or frequently administered steroids cause both fasting and postprandial hyperglycemia. Patients with Cushing’s syndrome should be screened for the presence of abnormalities in glucose metabolism ( 172 ). It should be noted that fasting glucose levels are often normal with abnormalities present during an oral glucose tolerance test ( 170 , 172 ). Screening with A1c levels or with an oral glucose tolerance test are therefore preferred. The abnormalities in glucose metabolism may contribute to the increased risk of atherosclerosis in patients with Cushing’s syndrome. The prevalence of Cushing’s syndrome in patients with diabetes is uncertain with studies reporting very different results ranging from 0 to 9% ( 172 ). The selection process used, and the criteria used to determine the presence of Cushing’s syndrome likely greatly influences the results with studies that select patients with marked obesity, poor glycemic control, and poorly controlled hypertension finding a higher percentage of patients with diabetes having Cushing’s syndrome. A recent meta-analysis of 14 studies with a total of 2827 patients with T2D reported that 1.4% had Cushing’s syndrome based on biochemical analysis ( 174 ). In a multicenter study carried out in Italy between 2006 and 2008, 813 patients with known T2D without clinically overt hypercortisolism were evaluated for Cushing’s syndrome ( 175 ). After extensive evaluation 6 patients (0.7%) were diagnosed with Cushing’s syndrome. Four patients had an adrenal adenoma and their diabetes was markedly improved with the disappearance of diabetes in three patients and discontinuation of insulin therapy in the remaining patient. One patient had bilateral macronodular adrenal hyperplasia
