Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


and their diabetes was markedly improved with the disappearance of diabetes in three patients and discontinuation of insulin therapy in the remaining patient. One patient had bilateral macronodular adrenal hyperplasia and one patient had ACTH dependent Cushing’s syndrome with a normal pituitary MRI. In approximately 15-35% of patients with an incidental adrenal nodule mild autonomous cortisol secretion with T2D is present ( 176 , 177 ). After surgical removal of the adenoma in patients with autonomous cortisol secretion diabetes normalized or improved in 62.5% of patients (5 of 8) ( 178 ). However, not all studies have seen such dramatic improvements in diabetes after adenoma removal ( 179 ). Clearly additional studies (preferably large, randomized trials) are required to better define the prevalence of mild subclinical Cushing’s syndrome in patients with diabetes and whether treating the subclinical Cushing’s syndrome in these patients will improve their glycemic control. For a detailed discussion of autonomous cortisol secretion see the chapter on Adrenal Incidentalomas in the Adrenal section of Endotext ( 180 ). Currently, routinely screening patients with T2D for Cushing’s syndrome is not recommended ( 172 ). Nevertheless, clinicians should be aware of the possibility of Cushing’s syndrome and screen appropriate patients with T2D (young patients, negative family history of diabetes, patients with physical findings suggestive of Cushing’s syndrome, patients with difficult to control diabetes or hypertension) ( 172 ). Glucocorticoids function as a counter regulatory hormone to insulin and increase in response to hypoglycemia ( 181 ). Glucocorticoids disrupt glucose metabolism primarily by inducing insulin resistance in liver and muscle and by stimulating hepatic gluconeogenesis ( 170 , 172 ). The increase in hepatic gluconeogenesis is mediated by several mechanisms including a) directly stimulating the expression of gluconeogenic enzymes b) stimulating proteolysis and lipolysis leading to an increase delivery of amino acids, glycerol, and fatty acids to the liver that provides substrates and energy sources for gluconeogenesis c) inducing insulin resistance and d) enhancing the action of glucagon ( 170 , 172 ). The glucocorticoid induced increase in insulin resistance is due to inhibition of the post-receptor signaling pathway of the insulin receptor, which will result in a decrease in the uptake of glucose by skeletal muscle and adipose tissue ( 170 ). In addition to the above glucocorticoids can accelerate the degradation of Glut4 in beta cells, which impairs the ability of beta cells to secrete insulin in response to
