Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


170 ). In addition to the above glucocorticoids can accelerate the degradation of Glut4 in beta cells, which impairs the ability of beta cells to secrete insulin in response to glucose ( 182 ). Treatment of Cushing’s syndrome by removal of a pituitary tumor, an ectopic ACTH producing tumor, or an adrenal lesion result in a marked improvement in glucose metabolism and in many patients a remission of the diabetes ( 170 , 172 ). In patients with persistent Cushing’s syndrome drug therapy may be needed to normalize cortisol levels. Studies have shown that ketoconazole (200–1200 mg/day), levoketoconazole (150-600 mg twice daily), metyrapone (250–4500 mg/day), mifepristone (300–2000 mg/day) (approved to treat diabetes in patients with Cushing’s syndrome), osilodrostat (1-30 mg twice daily), or cabergoline (1-7mg/day) improves glucose metabolism in patients with Cushing’s syndrome ( 152 , 172 , 183 ). In contrast, pasireotide has been shown to significantly worsen glucose tolerance, despite control of hypercortisolism, in patients with Cushing’s syndrome ( 152 , 172 , 183 ). In patients with exogenous Cushing’s syndrome it is important to use as low a dose as possible of glucocorticoids for the shortest period of time to avoid complications of therapy including disrupting glucose homeostasis ( 184 ). The management of diabetes in patients with Cushing’s syndrome is similar to the treatment of other patients with diabetes ( 152 , 183 ). Since insulin resistance is a key defect in patients with Cushing’s syndrome the use of insulin sensitizers may be especially effective but there are no studies comparing the efficacy of various hypoglycemic agents in patients with Cushing’s syndrome ( 152 ). Pioglitazone and rosiglitazone can increase the risk of osteoporosis, and it should be noted that patients with Cushing’s syndrome also have a high risk of osteoporosis. As noted above, postprandial glucose levels are preferentially increased in Cushing’s syndrome and therefore drugs that lower postprandial glucose levels, such as DPP4 inhibitors, GLP1 receptor agonists, alpha glucosidase inhibitors, and rapid acting insulin may be very useful ( 152 ). In glucocorticoid-treated patients requiring a basal-bolus insulin regimen, a higher requirement of short-acting insulin than basal insulin is frequently required (usually approximately 70% of total insulin dose as prandial and 30% as basal) ( 152 ). Because of the insulin resistance in patients with Cushing’s syndrome higher doses of insulin are often required to achieve glycemic control. Patients with Cushing’s syndrome are at higher
