Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


152 ). Because of the insulin resistance in patients with Cushing’s syndrome higher doses of insulin are often required to achieve glycemic control. Patients with Cushing’s syndrome are at higher risk for developing macrovascular disease and therefore aggressive treatment of dyslipidemia and hypertension is required ( 185 , 186 ). Pheochromocytoma Pheochromocytomas are rare neuroendocrine tumors that secrete norepinephrine, epinephrine, and dopamine ( 187 ). In pheochromocytomas the prevalence of diabetes has been estimated to be between 15-40% and impaired glucose tolerance as high as 50% ( 188 - 191 ). Patients with diabetes were older, had a longer known duration of hypertension, higher plasma epinephrine and norepinephrine levels, increased urinary metanephrine excretion, and larger tumors ( 189 - 191 ). Surprisingly the BMI did not differ between patients with and without diabetes perhaps because more active tumors with higher catecholamine levels lead to weight loss ( 189 , 190 ). In most instances the diabetes is relatively mild but in rare instances can be severe with ketoacidosis ( 192 ). The association of hypertension with diabetes in a young patient who is not overweight is a clue to the presence of a pheochromocytoma ( 189 ). Catecholamines, acting primarily by the beta-adrenergic receptors, stimulate glucose production in the liver by increasing glycogenolysis and increase insulin resistance leading to a decrease in tissue disposal of glucose, which together result in elevations in glucose levels ( 193 , 194 ). In addition, catecholamines acting via the alpha-adrenergic receptors, inhibit insulin secretion by the beta cells and acting via the beta-adrenergic receptors, increase glucagon secretion by the alpha cells ( 195 ). A decrease in insulin secretion and an increase in glucagon secretion would facilitate the development of hyperglycemia. With tumor resection diabetes resolves or markedly improves in the majority of patients (>50-90%) with a pheochromocytoma ( 189 , 190 , 196 ). A duration of diabetes of less than 3 years is associated with a remission of diabetes ( 197 ). It should be noted that post-surgical removal of a pheochromocytoma, hypoglycemia can occur in approximately 5% of patients ( 198 ). Most of these hypoglycemic episodes occur in the first 24 hours and are more likely to occur in patients with large tumors and high urinary metanephrine levels ( 198 ). If surgery is unsuccessful the use of alpha and beta blockers may improve insulin resistance and glucose homeostasis (
