Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


be noted that hyperthyroidism may worsen glycemic control in patients with diabetes by increasing intestinal glucose absorption, decreasing insulin sensitivity, and increasing glucose production ( 207 ). Teprotumumab, which is used to treat thyroid eye disease, may worsen glycemic control in patients with diabetes and induce hyperglycemia in patients without diabetes ( 208 , 209 ) (discussed in drug induced diabetes section below). Additionally, T1D and Grave’s disease can occur together as part of the autoimmune polyglandular syndrome ( 210 ). Glucagonoma Glucagonomas are extremely rare and are associated with a characteristic rash termed necrolytic migratory erythema (82% of patients), painful glossitis, cheilitis, angular stomatitis, normochromic normocytic anemia (50-60%), weight loss (60-90%), mild diabetes mellitus (68-80%), hypoaminoacidemia, low zinc levels, deep vein thrombosis (50%), and depression (50%) ( 211 , 212 ). Glucagon stimulates hepatic glucose production by increasing gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis leading to an increase in plasma glucose levels ( 213 ). Removal of the tumor results in the remission of diabetes. Somatostatinoma Somatostatinomas are extremely rare tumors that may present with a triad of diabetes mellitus, diarrhea/steatorrhea, and gallstones, but weight loss and hypochlorhydria also occur ( 214 ). Approximately seventy-five percent of patients with pancreatic somatostatinomas have diabetes while diabetes occurs in only approximately 10% of patients with intestinal tumors. Typically, the diabetes is relatively mild and can be controlled with diet, oral hypoglycemic agents, or small doses of insulin ( 214 ). Somatostatin inhibits insulin secretion which can result in elevations in plasma glucose levels ( 214 ). Increased secretion of somatostatin by cells in the pancreas may be in closer proximity to beta cells and more effective in inhibiting insulin secretion than somatostatin secreted by intestinal cells. Somatostatin also inhibits glucagon secretion and therefore diabetic ketoacidosis is very unusual but has been reported ( 214 , 215 ). Additionally, replacement of functional islet cell tissue by the pancreatic tumor may also contribute to the development of diabetes in patients with a pancreatic somatostatinoma ( 214 ). Removal of the tumor results in remission of diabetes. Primary Hyperaldosteronism Hypokalemia secondary to hyperaldosteronism can impair insulin secretion and result in diabetes. Potassium replacement will improve glucose homeostasis. Additionally, aldosterone induces insulin resistance in adipocytes, skeletal muscle, and liver and decreases insulin secretion independent of potassium levels ( 216 ). In a large meta-analysis the risk of diabetes (OR 1.33, 95% CI 1.01–1.74) and the metabolic syndrome (OR
