Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


on glucose levels ( 224 ). In a meta-analysis of twelve studies with 94,492 patients beta-blocker therapy resulted in a 22% increased risk for new-onset diabetes compared with nondiuretic antihypertensive agents ( 225 ). Thus, both thiazide diuretics and beta blockers increase the risk of developing diabetes while ARBs and ACE inhibitors reduce the risk ( 226 ). CCB, alpha receptor blockers (prazosin and doxazosin), and clonidine do not increase the risk of developing of diabetes ( 227 ). The hyperglycemia secondary to thiazide diuretics may in some instances be due to decreased insulin secretion secondary to potassium loss, which can be improved with potassium replacement ( 228 ). Studies have suggested that combining thiazides with potassium-sparing diuretics reduces the development of hyperglycemia ( 229 ). In addition, thiazides may directly affect insulin secretion similar to diazoxide (see below). Finally, thiazides also increase insulin resistance and enhance hepatic glucose production ( 228 ). The effect on glucose metabolism differs between different beta-blockers and carvedilol, a third-generation beta-blocker, has beneficial effects on glucose metabolism ( 226 , 228 ). A greater inhibition of insulin secretion occurs with non-selective beta-blocking agents ( 228 ). Beta blockers decrease insulin secretion and increase insulin resistance ( 226 , 228 ). In addition, beta-blockers increase weight, which also could adversely affect glucose homeostasis ( 230 ). Finally, beta-blockers increase the risk of severe hypoglycemia by decreasing the recovery from hypoglycemia and masking the symptoms of hypoglycemia ( 231 ). Diazoxide Diazoxide is a non-diuretic benzothiadiazine derivative, which increases plasma glucose levels by inhibiting insulin secretion through opening the potassium/ATP channels in beta cells ( 232 ). Diazoxide is used to control hypoglycemia in patients with insulinomas ( 233 ). Statins In a meta-analysis of 13 trials with over 90,000 subjects, there was a 9% increase in the incidence of diabetes during follow-up among subjects receiving statin therapy ( 234 ). All statins appear to increase the risk of developing diabetes. A more recent meta-analysis comparing low or moderate intensity statin therapy vs. placebo found that there was a 10% increase in the incidence of new diabetes whereas with high intensity statin therapy there was a 36% increase ( 235 ). In patients on intensive vs. moderate statin therapy, Preiss et al observed that patients treated with intensive statin therapy had a 12% greater risk of developing diabetes compared to subjects treated with moderate dose statin
