Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


moderate statin therapy, Preiss et al observed that patients treated with intensive statin therapy had a 12% greater risk of developing diabetes compared to subjects treated with moderate dose statin therapy ( 236 ). Older subjects, obese subjects, and subjects with high glucose levels were at a higher risk of developing diabetes while on statin therapy ( 235 , 237 ). Thus, statins may be unmasking and accelerating the development of diabetes that would have occurred naturally in these subjects at some point in time. In patients without risk factors for developing diabetes, treatment with statins does not appear to increase the risk of developing diabetes. The mechanism by which statins increase the risk of developing diabetes is unknown ( 237 ). Studies suggest that the inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase per se may be leading to the statin induced increased risk of diabetes via weight gain ( 237 ). However, a large number of studies have now shown that polymorphisms in a variety of different genes that lead to a decrease in LDL cholesterol levels are also associated with an increase in diabetes suggesting that decreases in LDL cholesterol levels per se alter glucose metabolism and increase the risk of diabetes ( 237 ). How decreased LDL cholesterol levels effect glucose metabolism is unknown. In some studies statins have been shown to increase insulin resistance ( 238 ) and in some studies to decrease insulin secretion ( 239 , 240 ). Clearly further studies are required to understand the mechanisms by which statins increase the risk of developing diabetes. Niacin A meta-analysis examined the effect of niacin therapy on the development of new onset diabetes ( 241 ). In 11 trials with 26,340 non-diabetic participants, niacin therapy was associated with a 34% increased risk of developing diabetes. This increased risk results in one additional case of diabetes per 43 initially non-diabetic individuals who are treated with niacin for 5 years. Results were similar in patients who were receiving niacin therapy in combination with statin therapy. It has been recognized for many years that niacin induces insulin resistance ( 242 ). The mechanisms by which niacin induces insulin resistance are unknown but possible mechanisms include a rebound increase in free fatty acids with niacin therapy or the accumulation of diacylglycerol ( 242 ). Pentamidine Pentamidine is an antiprotozoal agent known to cause hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia ( 228 ). Pentamidine induces a
