Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


few weeks up to one year after initiating therapy and typically presents with polyuria, polydipsia, weight loss, and dehydration ( 251 , 252 ). Severe hyperglycemia and ketoacidosis are commonly observed ( 252 ). Because of the acute occurrence, A1c levels may not be elevated. C-peptide levels are very low and approximately 50% of patients have islet cell antibodies (GAD, ICA, IAA or IA-2; GAD antibodies are the most commonly observed) ( 251 , 252 ). Insulin treatment is required, and it is likely that the diabetes will be irreversible ( 251 , 252 ). For additional information on the checkpoint inhibitor associated diabetes see the Endotext chapter “Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events” in the Disorders that Affect Multiple Organs section ( 253 ). Antipsychotic Drugs Many studies have linked second generation antipsychotic medications with the development of T2D ( Table 5 ) ( 254 , 255 ). In a meta-analysis of a large number of studies it was reported that olanzapine and clozapine treatment resulted in a greater increase in glucose abnormalities than aripiprazole, quetiapine, risperidone and ziprasidone ( 256 ). Another meta-analysis has further shown that aripiprazole has a reduced risk of T2D compared to other antipsychotic agents ( 257 ). With regards to first generation antipsychotic drugs, chlorpromazine has a high risk of disrupting glucose metabolism while haloperidol, fluphenazine, and perphenazine have a low risk ( 254 ). It is thought that antipsychotic drugs induce diabetes by multiple mechanisms: ( 1 ) they inhibit insulin signalling in muscle cells, hepatocytes, and adipocytes thereby causing insulin resistance; ( 2 ) they induce obesity, which can also cause insulin resistance; and ( 3 ) they can cause direct damage to β-cells, leading to dysfunction and apoptosis of β-cells ( 255 , 258 ). Table 5. Risk of Diabetes of Selected First- and Second-Generation Antipsychotics View in own window Risk of diabetes* First-generation antipsychotic Chlorpromazine Fluphenazine Perphenazine Haloperidol +++ + + + Second-generation antipsychotic Clozapine Olanzapine Quetiapine Risperidone Ziprasidone Aripiprazole Paliperidone Lurasidone +++ +++ ++ ++ + + + + * Relative to other antipsychotics. Not all the risk of diabetes or weight gain are related to the antipsychotics. Table modified from ( 255 ). Androgen Deprivation Therapy A number of studies have shown that androgen deprivation therapy increases the risk of developing diabetes ( 259 ). For example, a study by Tsai reported that androgen deprivation therapy
