Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


A number of studies have shown that androgen deprivation therapy increases the risk of developing diabetes ( 259 ). For example, a study by Tsai reported that androgen deprivation therapy was associated with a 1.61-fold increased diabetes risk and the number needed to harm was 29 ( 260 ). The androgen deprivation induced diabetes typically develops after a year of treatment ( 259 ). Androgen deprivation therapy induces insulin resistance ( 259 ). The increase in insulin resistance may be due to an increase in visceral fat mass and/or an increase in pro-inflammatory adipokines such as TNF-a, IL-6, and resistin ( 259 ). Immunosuppressive Drugs Immunosuppressive drugs used after organ transplantations increase the risk of diabetes ( 261 ). In general, tacrolimus has been associated with a greater risk of developing diabetes compared to cyclosporine ( 261 , 262 ). The calcineurin inhibitors, tacrolimus and cyclosporine, decrease insulin secretion and synthesis ( 261 , 262 ). Additionally, tacrolimus and cyclosporine inhibit glucose uptake in human subcutaneous and omental adipocytes ( 262 ). Mechanistic Target of Rapamycin Inhibitors (mTOR inhibitors) mTOR inhibitors, sirolimus and everolimus, can induce diabetes ( 263 ). The adverse effect of mTOR inhibitors on glucose metabolism is due to insulin resistance secondary to a reduction of the post receptor insulin signalling pathway and a reduction of insulin secretion via a direct effect on the pancreatic beta cells ( 261 , 263 ). Asparaginase Hyperglycemia is common with the use of asparaginase treatment ranging from 2.5% to 23% in the pediatric population and as high as 76% in adults with PEG-asparaginase use ( 264 , 265 ). Hyperglycemia usually resolves within 12 days after the last dose ( 264 ). Risk factors predisposing to hyperglycemia with asparaginase treatment include a history of impaired glucose tolerance, age >10 years, obesity, family history of diabetes mellitus, and history of Down syndrome ( 264 , 265 ). Diabetic ketoacidosis has been described with asparaginase treatment but is not a common occurrence ( 264 ). Decreased insulin secretion, increased insulin resistance, and increased glucagon secretion may contribute to the hyperglycemia observed with asparaginase. Additionally, asparaginase can induce pancreatitis, which can also lead to hyperglycemia ( 264 ). Antibiotics Fluoroquinolones have been associated with an increased risk of hyperglycemia, particularly in the elderly ( 228 ). The risk of developing hyperglycemia is greatest with gatifloxacin ( 228 ). Beta-Adrenergic Drugs High doses of
