Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


with an increased risk of hyperglycemia, particularly in the elderly ( 228 ). The risk of developing hyperglycemia is greatest with gatifloxacin ( 228 ). Beta-Adrenergic Drugs High doses of beta-adrenergic drugs can lead to hyperglycemia likely due to the stimulation of hepatic gluconeogenesis ( 228 ). Teprotumumab Teprotumumab blocks the activation of the insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (IGF-1 receptor). Initial studies in patients with thyroid eye disease found that approximately 10% of patients had hyperglycemia and one-third of these individuals with hyperglycemia did not have pre-existing diabetes or impaired glucose tolerance but the study by Amarikwa et al found a higher risk of hyperglycemia ( 209 , 266 , 267 ). Older age, prediabetes/diabetes, and Asian and Hispanic ethnicity may increase the risk of hyperglycemia. Case reports of diabetic ketoacidosis and hyperglycemic hyperosmolar state have been reported ( 268 , 269 ). In some but not all patients glycemia returns towards normal when teprotumumab treatment is completed. Blocking the activation of the IGF-1 receptor may lead to an increase in growth hormone secretion leading to hyperglycemia ( 270 ). Additionally, adverse effects on insulin receptors that interact with the IGF-1 receptor may lead to insulin resistance ( 270 ). Glucocorticoids, Somatostatin, Growth Hormone, and Glucagon The effects of these hormones on glucose metabolism were discussed in the section on Endocrinopathies. HIV Antiretroviral Therapy The effect of the drugs used to treat patients living with HIV on the development of diabetes is discussed in the Endotext chapter “Diabetes in People Living with HIV” in the Diabetes section ( 6 ). IMMUNE-MEDIATED Latent Autoimmune Diabetes in Adults (LADA) LADA is an autoimmune disorder that resembles T1D but shows a later onset and slower progression towards requiring insulin therapy ( 271 - 273 ). The ADA includes LADA as T1D whereas WHO classifies LADA as a hybrid form of diabetes (T1D and T2D) ( 96 ) ( https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/classification-of-diabetes-mellitus ). Epidemiological studies suggest that LADA may account for 2–12% of all cases of diabetes in the adult population ( 271 , 272 , 274 ). To differentiate LADA from T1D and T2D, the Immunology of Diabetes Society has proposed three criteria: (a) adult age of onset (> 30 years of age); (b) presence of at least one circulating autoantibody (GAD, ICA, IAA or IA-2) and; (c) insulin independence for the ﬁrst 6 months after the time of diagnosis ( 271 , 272 ).
