Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


, 274 ). HLA-DQB1 risk genotypes have been consistently positively associated and protective genotypes have been negatively associated with LADA ( 273 ). However, in addition to genotypes that are associated with T1D, patients with LADA also have an increased frequency of genotypes that are associated with T2D (TCF7L2, FTO, and SLC30A8) ( 273 ). Having a healthy lifestyle and a BMI<25 is associated with a reduced risk of LADA including in individuals with a genetic susceptibility ( 276 ). Individuals with other autoimmune diseases are more likely to develop LADA ( 277 ). Some have proposed GAD antibody testing all patients with T2D ( 278 ) to diagnose LADA but given the given the increased costs and the relatively frequent occurrence of false positive tests compared to true positives in a low-risk population this strategy is not widely accepted ( 279 ). The ADA suggests selective testing in adults without traditional risk factors for T2D and/or younger age ( 96 ). In LADA patients glycemic control can initially be achieved with hypoglycemic agents other than insulin but overtime patients progress to requiring insulin therapy. Sulfonylureas seem to accelerate the progress to requiring insulin therapy and therefore should be avoided ( 280 ). Because of the progressive loss of beta cell function there is an increased risk of diabetic ketoacidosis with SGLT2 inhibitors and therefore these drugs should be used with caution. Monitoring ketone levels in patients with LADA treated with SGLT2 inhibitors would be prudent. Novel therapies to preserve beta cell function would be ideal for patients with LADA but at this time there are no proven strategies to preserve beta cell function. However, there are several studies from China that suggest that vitamin D may slow the loss of beta cell function ( 281 - 283 ) In a long- term follow-up (median 17.3 years) comparing microvascular outcomes in patients with LADA or T2D it was observed that the risk of renal failure/death, blindness, vitreous hemorrhage, or retinal photocoagulation was decreased in the patients with LADA during the first 9 years (adjusted HR 0.45; p<0.0001), whereas in subsequent years their risk was higher (HR 1·25; p=0.047) ( 284 ). This difference was attributed to higher A1c levels in the LADA patients. The prevalence of coronary heart disease and cardiovascular mortality is similar in patients with LADA and T2D ( 285 , 286 ). Mortality is increased in patients
