Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


the LADA patients. The prevalence of coronary heart disease and cardiovascular mortality is similar in patients with LADA and T2D ( 285 , 286 ). Mortality is increased in patients with LADA (HR 1.44), compared to controls ( 287 ). Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes T1D can occur as part of the autoimmune polyglandular syndromes. These disorders are discussed in the Endotext chapter “Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes” in the Disorders that Affect Multiple Organs section ( 4 ). Stiff-Person syndrome Stiff-person syndrome is a rare autoimmune disorder of the nervous system with fluctuating stiffness and spasm of the skeletal muscles that occurs more frequently in females than males (approximately 2/3 women) ( 288 ). Rigidity is caused by simultaneous contracture of agonist and antagonist muscles. Muscle involvement is symmetrical, and the lower extremities are affected more commonly than the upper extremities and proximal limb and axial muscles are affected more severely than distal muscles ( 288 ). Most patients have very high levels of anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) antibodies ( 288 ). 30-65% of these individuals also develop beta cell destruction and T1D ( 289 ). Diabetes may occur several years prior to the development of the stiff-person syndrome (60%) or after the development of the stiff-person syndrome ( 288 , 289 ). The stiff person syndrome without GAD antibodies is not associated with diabetes ( 289 ). The GAD antibodies in patients with T1D and stiff-person syndrome recognize a different set of epitopes and have distinct biological effects ( 290 ). Other autoimmune manifestations are also common, particularly thyroid disorders and pernicious anemia ( 288 , 289 ). It should be noted that a variety of neurological disorders (cerebellar ataxia, limbic and extra-limbic encephalitis, nystagmus/oculomotor dysfunction, drug-resistant epilepsy, etc.) are associated with GAD antibodies ( 290 ). Autoimmune Insulin Resistance Type B Syndrome Insulin resistance can result from autoantibodies directed against the insulin receptor, which either inhibit insulin from binding to the receptor or stimulate the receptor ( 291 ). Thus, they can cause either hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia, even alternating in the same patient. Low titers of insulin receptor antibodies typically lead to hypoglycemia while high titers result in hyperglycemia but the possibility of epitope switching may also determine if hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia is manifest ( 292 , 293 ). The patients usually present with very high glucose levels with high fasting insulin levels and significant weight loss ( 291 , 293
