Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


hypoglycemia is manifest ( 292 , 293 ). The patients usually present with very high glucose levels with high fasting insulin levels and significant weight loss ( 291 , 293 ). Serum triglyceride levels are typically low and HDL cholesterol levels normal, which contrasts with typical patients with insulin resistance who usually have high triglyceride levels and low HDL cholesterol levels. This difference is explained by post receptor insulin resistance stimulating lipogenesis whereas insulin resistance localized to the receptor does not ( 294 ). The diagnosis can be confirmed by demonstrating the presence of autoantibodies to the insulin receptor. The prevalence of type B insulin resistance syndrome is unknown but is quite rare ( 291 ). Middle-aged women are most often affected and often have other manifestations of autoimmune disease such as SLE or Sjogren’s. However, this disorder can also affect males and younger patients. In some instances, the type B insulin resistance syndrome occurs as a paraneoplastic manifestation of lymphoma or multiple myeloma. Patients may have signs of insulin resistance including acanthosis nigricans and ovarian hyperandrogenism. Of note the acanthosis nigricans may involve the lips and the periocular region resulted in a typical facial appearance ( 291 ). Serum testosterone levels are often elevated in females ( 291 ). Patients often need excessive amounts of insulin (1,000 U or more per day). One can add insulin sensitizers such as metformin and/or thiazolidinediones to try to reduce the insulin dose, which can in some patients be greater than 10,000U per day ( 291 ). Treatment includes immunosuppression and/or plasmapheresis to halt the autoantibody production and decrease antibody levels ( 295 ). Treatment with rituximab, high-dose steroids, and cyclophosphamide until remission, followed by maintenance therapy with azathioprine is very effective in inducing and maintaining remissions. Approximately 1/3 of patients will undergo a spontaneous remission with reversal of the hyperglycemia/hypoglycemia and the clinical manifestations ( 291 ). DIABETES OF UNKNOWN CAUSE Ketosis-Prone Diabetes in Adults (Flatbush Diabetes) This syndrome is characterized by the acute onset of severe hyperglycemia with or without ketoacidosis, which after several weeks to months no longer requires insulin therapy and can be treated with diet or oral hypoglycemic agents ( 296 , 297 ). These patients typically have a history of polyuria, polydipsia, and weight loss for less than 4 to 6 weeks indicating an abrupt onset of the disorder in glucose metabolism and no history of an
