Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


a history of polyuria, polydipsia, and weight loss for less than 4 to 6 weeks indicating an abrupt onset of the disorder in glucose metabolism and no history of an event that could have precipitated the hyperglycemia ( 297 ). The initial presentation is suggestive of T1D. While in most patients insulin therapy can be stopped there are some patients who continue to require insulin treatment ( 296 ). This syndrome occurs in black populations (African American, African-Caribbean, sub-Saharan African), Hispanic populations, and Asian (Chinese, Indian, and Japanese) populations but is not typically seen in Caucasians ( 296 , 297 ). The typical patient is male, middle-aged, overweight or modestly obese with a strong family history of diabetes ( 296 , 297 ). Patients are negative when tested for islet cell antibodies (GAD, ICA, IAA or IA-2) ( 296 ). Recurrent episodes of ketoacidosis can occur, but the clinical course is typical of patients with T2D ( 296 , 297 ). Treatment with hypoglycemic agents reduces the risk of recurrence ( 297 , 298 ). SGLT2 inhibitors should be used with caution given the risk of recurrent ketoacidosis. With long-term follow-up many patients eventually require insulin therapy similar to what is observed in patients with T2D ( 298 ). During the episode of severe hyperglycemia patients with ketosis-prone diabetes have lost the ability of glucose to stimulate beta cell insulin secretion but nonglycemic pharmacologic agents (glucagon and arginine) can stimulate insulin secretion ( 296 ). After restoration of normal glycemia the ability of glucose to stimulate insulin secretion returns towards normal and by 8-12 weeks has maximally improved ( 296 ). Usually patients with this syndrome have a modest reduction in stimulated insulin secretion ( 296 ). Why these patients temporarily lose the ability for glucose to stimulate insulin secretion is unknown. Additionally, during the acute episode of hyperglycemia the patients are severely insulin resistant, which improves during a period of euglycemia ( 297 , 298 ). Clinically, it is important to recognize this syndrome as some patients presenting with diabetic ketoacidosis, particularly if they are non-Caucasians, may not have T1D but rather have ketosis-prone diabetes. It is estimated that between 20% and 50% of African-American and Hispanic patients with a new diagnosis of diabetic ketoacidosis have ketosis-prone diabetes ( 297 ). After restoration of euglycemia the management of these patients is similar to the management of patients with T2D,
