Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


a new diagnosis of diabetic ketoacidosis have ketosis-prone diabetes ( 297 ). After restoration of euglycemia the management of these patients is similar to the management of patients with T2D, and they frequently do not require permanent insulin treatment. OTHER GENETIC SYNDROMES SOMETIMES ASSOCIATED WITH DIABETES There are a number of inherited monogenic disorders that secondarily can be associated with diabetes. The mechanisms linking these disorders with diabetes are often not clear. Chromosomal Abnormalities DOWN SYNDROME Down syndrome is due to trisomy of chromosome 21 and occurs in 1 in every 787 liveborn babies ( 299 ). Down syndrome is often associated with autoimmune disorders like T1D and thyroiditis ( 299 , 300 ). The prevalence rate of T1D in patients with Down syndrome has been estimated to be between 1.4 and 10.6%, which is higher than in the general population ( 301 ). In another study there was a 4-fold increased prevalence of diabetes in patients with Down syndrome ( 302 ). Diabetes in patients with Down syndrome often presents earlier in life with 22% of participants developing diabetes by 2 years of age ( 303 ). The presence of diabetes is often associated with other autoimmune disorders, particularly hypothyroidism and celiac disease ( 300 ). Anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase antibodies (GAD antibodies) are very frequently present in Down syndrome subjects who develop diabetes ( 300 ). Downs syndrome patients with diabetes have similar HLA genotypes as non-Down syndrome patients with T1D ( 300 ). Interestingly, while patients with Down syndrome and diabetes are typically treated with simpler regimens their glycemic control tends to be as good or better than the usual patient with T1D, perhaps related to a simpler lifestyle and acceptance of routine ( 300 ). The cause of the increased autoimmunity in patients with Down syndrome may be due to the abnormal expression of the AIRE gene, which regulates T-cell function and self-recognition and is located on chromosome 21 (21q22.3 region) ( 299 , 300 ). While the incidence of T2D is similar between patients with Down syndrome and controls, the onset of T2D occurs at a much earlier age ( 304 ). The incidence for T2D is >10 times higher in patients aged 5–14 years with Down syndrome compared to controls. In individuals under the age of 45, Down syndrome is associated with an increased incidence of diabetes while over the age of 45, the incidence
