Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


Down syndrome compared to controls. In individuals under the age of 45, Down syndrome is associated with an increased incidence of diabetes while over the age of 45, the incidence of diabetes is increased in controls. Notable the BMI in increased in younger patients with Down syndrome compared to controls and could contribute to the increase in T2D. KLINEFELTER SYNDROME Klinefelter syndrome is due to an extra X chromosome in men (XXY) resulting in hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, low testosterone levels, gynecomastia, and reduced intelligence ( 305 , 306 ). The prevalence of Klinefelter syndrome is approximately 1 in 500 to 1 in 1000 males ( 305 , 306 ). Patients with Klinefelter syndrome are frequently obese, insulin resistant, and at increased risk to develop T2D (50% have the metabolic syndrome) ( 307 , 308 ). The decreased muscle mass and increased fat mass that often occur in patients with Klinefelter syndrome contribute to the high prevalence of insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome. The prevalence of overt diabetes in Klinefelter syndrome is estimated to be between 10-39% ( 307 , 309 ). Additionally, the prevalence of diabetes is even higher (up to 57%) in patients with more severe karyotypes (48, or 49 chromosomes) ( 307 ). Klinefelter syndrome patients develop diabetes earlier in life (onset around 30 years) and their BMI is lower than what is usually observed in patients with T2D ( 307 ). Hypogonadism is associated with insulin resistance and an increased risk of diabetes and whether testosterone therapy will be of benefit in preventing or treating diabetes in patients with Klinefelter syndrome is uncertain ( 309 ). Given the increased risk of developing T2D, patients with Klinefelter syndrome should be periodically screened for diabetes. Interestingly, one study reported an increased prevalence of T1D in patients with Klinefelter syndrome ( 310 ). Furthermore, a study reported that 8.2% of patients with Klinefelter syndrome had autoantibodies specific to T1D (Insulin Abs, GAD Abs, IA-2 Abs, Znt8 Abs) ( 311 ). Additional studies are required to better elucidate whether Klinefelter syndrome increases the risk of developing T1D. TURNER SYNDROME Turner syndrome is the most common chromosomal abnormality in girls, affecting approximately 1:2,500 female live births ( 312 ). The condition is caused by complete or partial deletion of an X chromosome ( 312 ). The incidence of both T1D and T2D has been reported to be increased in patients with Turner syndrome
