Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


therapy may lead to a decrease in adiposity and impaired glucose tolerance, which suggests it may actually improve glucose homeostasis ( 315 ). Similarly, sex steroid hormone replacement therapy also does not appear to have major adverse effects on glucose metabolism in patients with Turner syndrome ( 314 ). WILLIAMS SYNDROME Williams syndrome (Williams-Beuren syndrome) is a multisystem disorder characterized by transient infantile hypercalcemia, distinctive facial dysmorphism, and supravalvular aortic stenosis ( 320 , 321 ). In addition, gastrointestinal problems, dental anomalies, developmental delay/intellectual disability, anxiety disorders, and attention deficit disorder may occur as well as a variety of endocrine abnormalities including reduced statural growth, obesity, dyslipidemia, early pubertal development, hypothyroidism, and decreased bone density ( 320 , 322 ). Williams syndrome is due to a deletion on chromosome 7q, leading to the loss of 25–27 contiguous genes and thus individuals with Williams syndrome have only a single copy of these genes ( 321 ). This deletion almost always arises de novo in the affected individual. The estimated prevalence of Williams syndrome is ~1/7,500 and effects both males and females ( 321 ). Numerous studies have shown a high prevalence of T2D and impaired glucose tolerance in patients with Williams syndrome ( 320 ). The abnormalities in glucose metabolism occur during adolescence and are not necessarily associated with obesity ( 320 ). Of note insulin resistance is observed initially followed by a loss of insulin secretion ( 320 ). Markers of islet autoimmunity are not observed ( 320 ). In a review of 7 studies with 154 participants with Williams syndrome and an average age ranging from 13 to 35 years of age it was observed that 18% had diabetes and 42% impaired glucose tolerance ( 320 ). Because of this high risk for diabetes, it is recommended that patients with Williams syndrome be screened for diabetes beginning in adolescence ( 320 ). Note-worthy is that A1c was frequently not abnormal and therefore screening should be with fasting glucose levels or an oral glucose tolerance test ( 320 ). Diseases of the Endoplasmic Reticulum The endoplasmic reticulum folds and modifies newly formed proteins to make them function properly. Therefore, diseases affecting the endoplasmic reticulum usually affect many organs. Wolfram syndrome is the best known but there are other genetic syndromes that affect the endoplasmic reticulum and cause diabetes ( 323 ). WOLFRAM SYNDROME Wolfram syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive
