Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


is the best known but there are other genetic syndromes that affect the endoplasmic reticulum and cause diabetes ( 323 ). WOLFRAM SYNDROME Wolfram syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive genetic disorder characterized by T1D, diabetes insipidus, optic nerve atrophy, hearing loss, and neurodegeneration ( 324 , 325 ). There are also rare autosomal dominant forms of this disorder ( 325 ). This syndrome is sometimes called DIDMOAD (diabetes insipidus, diabetes mellitus, optic atrophy, and deafness). The prevalence is approximately one per 770,000 but varies depending upon the specific population ( 324 , 325 ). The onset of the clinical picture is highly variable in both severity and clinical manifestations ( 325 ). This disorder typically has a very poor prognosis with the median age at death being 30 years ( 324 ). Diabetes mellitus is usually the first manifestation, typically diagnosed around age 6 ( 324 ). The diabetes is not immune mediated but is characterized by insulin deficiency ( 325 ). Almost all patients require insulin therapy ( 325 ). Residual beta cell function persists and therefore good glycemic control tends to be easier to achieve in Wolfram syndrome than immune mediated T1D ( 325 ). However, over time C-peptide levels decrease ( 326 ). The development of optic atrophy and hearing loss in children with diabetes are clues to the presence of this syndrome. Until the onset of optic atrophy and hearing loss these patients are usually thought to have typical T1D with an absence of antibodies ( 325 ). Confirmation of the diagnosis can be made by identifying mutations in the WFS1 gene (Wolfram syndrome type 1) ( 324 ). The WFS1 gene encodes a transmembrane protein (wolframin) localized to the ER (endoplasmic reticulum) and mutations result in ER stress leading to beta cell dysfunction and death ( 324 ). Mutations in CISD2 gene cause a similar recessive type of Wolfram syndrome (Wolfram syndrome type 2) with patients exhibiting bleeding from upper intestinal ulcers and defective platelet aggregation without diabetes insipidus and psychiatric disorders ( 325 ). CISD2 encodes for a protein that moves between the ER and mitochondrial outer membrane ( 325 ). Unfortunately, there are currently no specific treatments to restore ER function and prevent the complications of this disorder. Base Pair Repeat Syndromes FRIEDRICHS ATAXIA Friedreich ataxia is a rare recessive disorder caused by triplet repeats (GAA) in the mitochondrial frataxin gene characterized
