Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


prevent the complications of this disorder. Base Pair Repeat Syndromes FRIEDRICHS ATAXIA Friedreich ataxia is a rare recessive disorder caused by triplet repeats (GAA) in the mitochondrial frataxin gene characterized by slowly progressive ataxia associated with dysarthria, muscle weakness, spasticity particularly in the lower limbs, scoliosis, bladder dysfunction, absent lower limb reflexes, and loss of position and vibration sense ( 327 ). The onset usually occurs before 25 years of age ( 327 ). Cardiomyopathy occurs in 2/3 of patients and up to 30% of patients have diabetes ( 327 ). The disorder affects approximately 1 in 30,000 Caucasians. Diabetes occurs in 8-32% of patients with Friedrichs ataxia, and an even higher percentage have impaired glucose tolerance ( 328 , 329 ). Hyperglycemia commonly develops approximately 15 years after the manifestation of neurological symptoms often presenting acutely with patients requiring insulin therapy ( 328 , 329 ). In a number of instances patients present with ketoacidosis ( 329 ). Both insulin deficiency and insulin resistance have been reported in patients with Friedreich ataxia ( 329 ). It is hypothesized that mutations in frataxin result in alterations in mitochondria function that impair the ability of beta cells to secrete insulin in response to glucose and increase the risk of beta cell death ( 329 ). Diabetes is an independent predictor of reduced survival in Friedrichs ataxia ( 330 ). There are no controlled studies comparing different diabetes therapies in patients with Friedreich ataxia. Metformin and thiazolidinediones inhibit the mitochondrial respiratory chain and therefore they should probably be used with caution in patients with mitochondrial disease ( 329 ). Additionally, thiazolidinediones increase the risk of congestive heart failure and patients with Friedreich ataxia have a high risk of cardiomyopathies and therefore should be avoided. Insulin is often required to achieve glycemic control. HUNTINGTON’S DISEASE Huntington’s disease is an autosomal dominant disorder that begins in adulthood (usually 30-50 years of age) and has distinctive motor defects (chorea, dystonia, and dyskinesia), psychiatric symptoms (depression and anxiety), and cognitive decline ( 331 ). This disorder is due to an unstable expansion of CAG repeats in the ﬁrst exon of the gene that encodes the protein huntingtin ( 331 ). The prevalence of this disorder is approximately 5-12 per 100,000 ( 331 , 332 ). While an early study reported that approximately 10% of patients with Huntington’s disease have diabetes a careful review of recent studies
