Atypical Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, insulin, syndrome, pubmed, glucose, risk, pancreatic, levels, insulin resistance, resistance, increased, therapy, disease, pancreatitis


taking metformin, and 10 were on insulin therapy. The mean A1c of subjects with T2D was 7.8 ( 342 ). The risk of developing diabetes increases with age. In the BBS patients without diabetes fasting glucose, insulin levels, and HOMA-IR were significantly increased in the BBS group compared with an age and BMI matched control group ( 342 ). The metabolic syndrome was present in 54% of the patients with BBS ( 342 ). There is evidence that BBS genes affect cilia that alter leptin trafficking and signaling thereby impacting the melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R) pathway ( 344 ). In a small trial setmelanotide reduced body weight (16.3% decrease at 12 months) and hunger in individuals with BBS ( 345 ). Other trials also observed a decrease in body weight and hunger in individuals with BBS treated with setmelanotide ( 346 , 347 ). One would anticipate that weight loss will reduce the risk of diabetes on patients with BBS. Setmelanotide is approved by the FDA for the treatment of BBS. PRADER WILLI SYNDROME (PWS) PWS is a rare autosomal dominant disorder, affecting 1 in 15,000 newborns, due to a mutation or deletion of several genes in an imprinting region on chromosome 15 ( 344 , 348 ). PWS in children is associated with excessive eating and morbid obesity, hypogonadism, low muscle tone, growth hormone deficiency, and short stature ( 344 , 348 ). The hyperphagia that occurs in PWS is believed to be due to a hypothalamic abnormality resulting in lack of satiety. This leads to excessive obesity in children, which is often associated with T2D due to severe insulin resistance ( 348 ). Approximately 20- 25% of adults with PWS have T2D with a mean age of onset of 20 years ( 348 , 349 ). Individuals with PWS who develop early diabetes have severe obesity, a high prevalence of psychiatric and metabolic disorders, and a family history of overweight and T2D ( 349 ). Screening for diabetes is recommended annually if obese or beginning in adolescence or with rapid significant weight gain or other symptoms. In recent years the earlier diagnosis and education of parents, use of growth hormone therapy, and the frequency of group homes specific for PWS have led to a reduction in the development of morbid obesity resulting in a decrease in the development of T2D among individuals with PWS ( 348 ). Metformin
