|
KEYWORDS: organoids, liver, human, liver organoids, matrigel, disease, cells, table, hepatic, drug, including, cell, cholangiocyte, patients, expression


A1AT is organoids from JAG1Ndr/Ndr mice and human controls produced primarily by hepatocytes and acts as a andfoundthatAGSorganoidsderivedfromJAG1Ndr/Ndr serine protease inhibitor, protecting against tissue mice showed delayed and uncontrolled differentiation damage and destruction caused by neutrophil elas- and collapsed after a few days in culture, indicating tase. Patients with AATDhave low serum A1ATlevels structural rather than developmental defects (Table 1). and manifest with hepatic dysfunction and chronic To validate the role of Notch signaling in the bile duct– obstructive lung disease. Biopsies from 3 patients specific differentiation of liver organoids, Vyas et al with AATD were used to generate organoids, in which added a Notch inhibitor to the culture medium and A1AT protein aggregation, reduced protein secretion, observedanattenuatedmaturationofbileductstructures and decreased elastase inhibition seemed similar to and a significant reduction in the expression of tran- matched donor tissue. Furthermore, Gómez- scriptionfactorsregulatingbileductdevelopment,imply- Mariano and colleagues established and compared ingasimilarphenotypeofAGS. organoids with normal, MM, and deficient MZ and ZZ genotypes. They observed the reduced expression of hepatocyte markers, such as albumin, apolipoprotein Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency B, and SERPINA1, and higher intracellular Z-A1AT polymers in ZZ and MZ organoids (Table 1), Alpha-1 antitrypsin (A1AT) deficiency (AATD) is a suggesting that liver organoids are bona fide models genetic disorder resulting from mutations in the A1AT of AATD phenotype. | 4 HEPATOLOGYCOMMUNICATIONS FIGURE2 Biomedicalapplicationsofliverorganoids.Healthyliverorganoidsderivedfromhealthydonorscanmimicorganogenesis,andthus holdgreatpromisefordevelopmentalscience.Healthyorganoidtransplantationintoinjuredindividualsshowedterrifictherapeuticeffects, indicatingthathealthyorganoidsareprospectiveinregenerativemedicine.Bothhealthyorganoidsanddiseasedorganoidsderivedfrompatients withdifferenttypesofliverdiseases,includingmonogenicliverdiseases,infectioushepatitis,AALD,MAFLD,andlivercarcinoma,couldbe cryopreservedasbiobanksforfurtherexperimentssuchasdiseasemechanisminvestigation.Diseasedorganoidsarealsosubjectedtodrug screeningandtoxicitytesting,indicatinggreatcandidatesforpersonalizedtreatment.Abbreviations:AALD,alcohol-associatedliverdisease; MAFLD,metabolic-associatedfattyliverdisease. Wilson disease and ICOs displayed reduced cell viability after copper treatment(Table1). Wilsondisease,causedbymutationsintheATP7Bgene, is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by excessive copper accumulation in the liver and brain, Urea cycle disorders leading to severe hepatic and subsequent neurological dysfunction. ATP7B interacts with the copper metab- Theliverconvertsexcessammoniatoureathroughtheurea olism domain containing 1 (COMMD1), a protein that is cycle, and congenital defects in urea cycle enzymes or mutated in Bedlington terriers with hereditary copper transporters can lead to urea cycle disorders. Defects in 2 toxicosissimilartohumanWilsondisease.Nantasanti enzymes of the urea cycle, ornithine transcarbamylase et al generated organoids from livers of these dogs (OTC)andargininosuccinatesynthetase1(ASS1),resultin withCOMMD1deficiency,whichexhibitedhighercopper OTC deficiency (OTCD) and citrullinemia type 1 (CT1), accumulation. With Dsred-expressing lentiviral vectors, respectively.MatsumotoandcolleaguesgeneratediPSC- the COMMD1 gene was transferred to COMMD1- derived organoids from a severe OTCD patient and deficient organoids, which normalized the intracellular subsequently corrected the mutation through CRISPR/ copper concentrations. Furthermore, 24 hours after Cas9 (Table 1). The gene-edited organoids showed the exposure to copper, COMMD1-deficient organoids significant improvement in urea production. The exhibited reduced cell viability, whereas gene-corrected expression level of 26
