|
KEYWORDS: organoids, liver, human, liver organoids, matrigel, disease, cells, table, hepatic, drug, including, cell, cholangiocyte, patients, expression


factors, as well as activated transcriptionalchangesreminiscentofBAorganoidsover proinflammatoryIL-1andIL-17signalingwereobservedin normal organoids (Table 1). Moreover, cholangiocyte hFLMC/hEHO compared with controls without EtOH organoids were sensitiveto rotavirusand supported the treatment. entire life cycle of rotavirus. Rotavirus-infected organoids were shriveled and disorganized, partially mycophenolic acid, interferon-alpha, and monoclonal METABOLIC ASSOCIATED FATTY neutralizing antibody targeting rotavirus VP7 protein LIVER DISEASE could prevent cytopathogenesis of rotavirus-infected cholangiocyte organoids. Biliatresone-induced, beta- There has been a significant rise in the prevalence of amyloid-induced, and rotavirus-induced organoids that metabolic associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) with | 10 HEPATOLOGYCOMMUNICATIONS complex pathogenesis. The need for effective and LIVER ORGANOIDS IN MODELING safe therapy has spurred the development of both INFECTIOUS HEPATITIS in vivo and in vitro models to elucidate the disease pathogenesis and provides insights for the identifica- Hepatitis B/C/E tion of potential treatment targets and preclinical tests of the therapeutic efficacy of drugs. Liver organoids LiverorganoidsderivedfromhiPSCshavebeenshown have extended the map of the MAFLD models. Liver tobehighlysusceptibletoHBVinfection,asareliver organoidshavebeengeneratedfromdifferentspecies, organoids generated from primary hepatocytes. including cats, dogs, mice, and Liver organoids displayed high expression of the HBV humans, and used to model MAFLD (Table 1). entry receptor, the sodium-taurocholate cotransporting Kruitwagen et al established the long-term feline polypeptide[52–54] (Table 1). Replication and production liver organoids, which, compared with their mouse, of the infectious progeny HBV by organoids have also human, and dog counterparts, exhibited more been observed when challenged by the sera of HBV- pronounced intracellular lipid accumulation when infected patients. Moreover, HBV-induced hepatic treated with excess free fatty acids. Moreover, free dysfunction of liver organoids was decreased by fatty acid–treated organoids exhibited typical MAFLD treatment with myrcludex (an HBV entry inhibitor) and features, including a distinct increase in the metabo- entecavir (an anti-HBV nucleotide). In addition to lites from lipid metabolism, inflammatory cytokines, in vitro infection of originally HBV-free liver organoids, intracellular lipid droplets and hepatocyte bal- also HBV-containing organoids were generated from looning, and a fibrogenic response. They found HBV-infected patients. Fu et al validated the that supplementation with T863 (a diacylglycerol potencyofentecavirandCas9/HBV-singleguideRNAs O-acyltransferase 1 inhibitor) and 5-aminoimidazole- (targeting HBV covalent closed circle DNA) either 4-carboxamide 1-β-D-ribofuranoside (an AMP kinase independently or in combination to prevent the activator) significantly alleviated lipid (triacylglycerol) rebound of HBV replication in hepatitis B patient– accumulation and enhanced the viability of lipid- derivedorganoids.DeCrignisetal,bytranscriptome loaded hepatic organoids. Although liver organo- analysis of patient-derived liver organoids, identified a ids aided in the approaches to explore potential drug novelearlygenesignatureforlivercancers,providinga
