|
KEYWORDS: organoids, liver, human, liver organoids, matrigel, disease, cells, table, hepatic, drug, including, cell, cholangiocyte, patients, expression


and enhanced the viability of lipid- derivedorganoids.DeCrignisetal,bytranscriptome loaded hepatic organoids. Although liver organo- analysis of patient-derived liver organoids, identified a ids aided in the approaches to explore potential drug novelearlygenesignatureforlivercancers,providinga targets and detect the toxicity of potential therapeutic potential biomarker to surveil and prevent the progres- compounds for MAFLD, the application of this system sionfromHBVinfectiontoHCC.Inaddition,humanliver was limited because of the failure to replicate the organoids might serve as a promising preclinical plat- multicellular milieu of the intact liver. formtomonitorthehepatotoxicitycausedbydrugsused A subset of patients with MAFLD will progress to to treat hepatitis B.. NASH, characterized by inflammation and fibrosis that Liver organoids, demonstrating a high expression of usually progresses to cirrhosis and predisposes to HCV entry-related proteins (scavenger receptor, class HCC. In the search for a diagnostic marker for B, type 1; cluster of differentiation 81, CD81), were NASH, Elbadawy et al generated NASH organoids highly permissive to HCV infection, while 2D cells were from mice fed a methionine-deficient and choline- less susceptible to HCV infection (Table 1). deficient diet and found that Areg (amphiregulin) and Human liver–derived hepatocyte and cholangiocyte Igf2bp2 (insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding organoidshavebeenshowntosupportHEVreplication protein 2) were the promising diagnostic biomarkers throughout the life cycle (Table 1). HEV infection for NASH, as they were specifically elevated in all impacted liver organoids mildly on morphological NASH organoids compared with those from control characteristics but robustly on metabolic response, mice. Nonetheless, these NASH findings in animal especially in the IFN signaling pathway, which organoid models might not correspond to the findings mattered in the early innate immune defense against in humans. Thus, future studies are needed to clarify a broad range of viruses. After screening HEV- the efficacy of these genes in the diagnosis of NASH, infected liver organoids with anti-HEV drugs, brequinar because mouse models cannot fully recapitulate the and homoharringtonine were identified as potent pathological mechanism underlying human NASH inhibitors of HEV infection, which were also effective disease.Notably,McCarron etaldemonstrated that against the ribavirin-resistant variant harboring the human organoids generated from irreversibly dam- G1634R mutation. aged NASH livers exhibited distinct upregulation of inflammation, liver fibrosis, and tumor biomarkers. Intriguingly, NASH organoids exhibited significant COVID-19–induced hepatitis permissiveness to the severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) vesicular SARS-CoV-2, which caused the COVID-19 pandemic, stomatitis pseudovirus, which might play a role in typically leads to severe respiratory failure, but some- NASH-related COVID-19. times also affects other organs like liver, heart, and
