|
KEYWORDS: organoids, liver, human, liver organoids, matrigel, disease, cells, table, hepatic, drug, including, cell, cholangiocyte, patients, expression


the COVID-19 pandemic, stomatitis pseudovirus, which might play a role in typically leads to severe respiratory failure, but some- NASH-related COVID-19. times also affects other organs like liver, heart, and | LIVERORGANOIDSFORDISEASEMODELINGANDDRUGDEVELOPMENT 11 kidney. Yang et al showed that human PSC there being continual increased CTP3A4 activity in (hPSC)–derived hepatocyte and cholangiocyte organo- iPSC-derived hepatic organoids after a month of ids expressing angiotensin 1 converting enzyme 2 culture, fetal markers such as AFP and CYP3A7 (ACE2,aputativereceptorofSARS-CoV-2)werehighly remained highly expressed in the organoids, which permissive to SARS-CoV-2 infection. SARS-CoV-2– might lead to the deviation of drug assessment infected cholangiocyte organoids induced a robust results. increase in secreted chemokines and upregulation of Aside from acute DILI, Leite et al developed liver inflammatory pathways, as also seen in the primary organoids as a readout to model chronic drug-induced human COVID-19 pulmonary biopsy specimens. In liver fibrosis by analyzing the gene expression asso- addition, Zhao et al reported the existence of a ciated with HSC activation, as well as collagen proportion of ACE2+/transmembrane serine protease 2+ accumulation in the liver organoids after repeated (TMPPSS2+) cholangiocytes in bile duct organoids, to exposure to fibrotic compounds, such as methotrexate which the SARS-CoV-2 displayed notable tropism and allyl alcohol. Intriguingly, APAP, which causes (Table 1). Notably, SARS-CoV-2 deteriorated the bile acute liver injury, could also result in chronic liver ductcellbarrierand bileacidtransportbyregulatingthe fibrosisthroughtheactivationofHSCs.Inaddition, expression of tight junctions and bile acid transport– ASC-derived liver organoids treated with amiodarone, related genes and stimulating the expression of several sertraline, or amikacin showed significant upregulation key apoptotic factors. This indicated that hepatic of lysosome-associated membrane protein 2, lamellar dysfunction in COVID-19 patients was partly due to the bodies, and reduction of cell viability, as manifested in directcholangiocyteinjurycausedbySARS-CoV-2. drug-induced phospholipidosis, a phospholipid storage disease caused by the formation of phospholipid-drug complexes in lysosomes (Table 1). Protozoan parasite–induced hepatitis Liver organoids were capable of demonstrating the LIVER ORGANOIDS IN MODELING intact liver stage of Plasmodium cynomolgi and PRIMARY SCLEROSING Plasmodium vivax and have been validated as pre- CHOLANGITIS dictiveplatformsforantiplasmodialandantirelapsedrug screening (Table 1). Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is a progressive fibroinflammatory biliary disorder characterized by multi- focalbile ductstricturesand dilations,and distressfully,it LIVER ORGANOIDS IN MODELING lacksdefinitiveetiologyandefficientpharmacotherapy. DRUG-INDUCED LIVER INJURY Cholangiocyte senescence and immune responsiveness have been reported to be predominant phenotypes of DILI is a hepatic adverse reaction to drugs or other PSC. Loarca and colleagues established senescent chemical agents. hPSC-derived liver organoids cholangiocyte organoids with
