|
KEYWORDS: organoids, liver, human, liver organoids, matrigel, disease, cells, table, hepatic, drug, including, cell, cholangiocyte, patients, expression


reported to be predominant phenotypes of DILI is a hepatic adverse reaction to drugs or other PSC. Loarca and colleagues established senescent chemical agents. hPSC-derived liver organoids cholangiocyte organoids with senescent cholangiocytes, expressed a phase II detoxification enzyme at the liver orcholangiocytesfrompatientswithPSC,andsecretory/ tissuelevelandmodulatedtheDILIofacetaminophen normal controls with healthy human cholangiocytes. (APAP), trovafloxacin, and troglitazone. Impor- Senescentcholangiocyteorganoidsrespondednegatively tantly, Shinozawa et al designed a liver organoid– to secretin stimulation, whereas secretory controls based toxicity screening (LoT) assay to analyze the enlarged in the luminal area after secretin stimulation. hepatoxicity of 238 marketed drugs (32 negative Comparedwithsecretoryorganoids,senescentorganoids controls and 206 reported DILI agents) and showed showed higher expression of cellular senescence high predictive values of the LoT system with 88.7% markers, smaller size, slower growth rate, and more sensitivity and 88.9% specificity. The results of the LoT significant macrophage accumulation. This recapitulated system were comparable to or higher than those of the cellular senescence and immune responsiveness in primaryhepatocyte-basedmodels.Furthermore,liver the primary sclerosing cholangitis. Notably, half of the organoids emulated DILI susceptibility in individuals in senescent organoids and all of the PSC-derived organo- differentdiseasecontexts.Forexample,liverorganoids ids failed to form central lumens while secretory controls exposed to troglitazone after unsaturated fatty acid developed integrated lumens. Soroka et al treatmentexhibitedsubstantialfragmentationduetocell extractedhumancholangiocyteorganoidsfrombilespeci- death, recapitulating potential DILI in the context of mens of PSC patients who underwent diagnostic or MAFLD.Inaddition,Howelletalgeneratedmurine therapeutic endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatog- hepatocyte organoids that expressed a variety of drug raphy (Table 1). On the basis of the methodology of metabolism and transport proteins required for drug Sorokaandcolleagues,Reichetalconstructedhuman metabolisms, such as CYP3A, glutathione-S-transfer- bile-derived organoids and found that IL8 stimulation asealpha,andmultidrugresistanceprotein1A.Despite declined the expression of biliary epithelium–protective Takeda G protein–coupled receptor-5 (TGR5) mRNA, indicatingthepathogenesisofPSC. LIVER ORGANOIDS IN MODELING HYPERURICEMIA The liver is the major organ for purine anabolism and uric acid production, and hyperuricemia (HUA) is a metabolic disorder resulting from abnormal purine metabolism. Hou et al established liver organo- ids from human paracarcinomatous tissue and found a high expression of key enzymes of purine metabolism, including adenosine deaminase and xanthine oxidase. Then,theyinducedliverorganoidstoHUAorganoidsby the xanthine oxidase substrate xanthine. A higher uric acid level in the supernatant of HUA organoids was detected, and allopurinol, the most common drug for gout, significantly lowered uric acid production by HUA organoids(Table1).Puerarinwasreportedtohave obvious therapeutic effects on HUA. In a range of concentrations, the puerarin and 2 histidine dipeptides, carnosine and anserine, had uric acid– lowering effects with HUA organoids. LIVER ORGANOIDS IN MODELING
