Chapter
KEYWORDS: quality, care, health, countries, developing, process, developing countries, outcomes, providers, percent, interventions, improvement, medical, better, practice


Improving the Quality of Care in Developing Countries John W. Peabody, Mario M. Taguiwalo, David A. Robalino, and Julio Frenk Although the quantity rather than quality ofhealth services has Increasing evidence, much of it developed since the mid been the focus historically in developing countries,ample evi- 1990s,shows that quality can be improved rapidly.However,to dence suggests that quality ofcare (or the lack ofit) must be at improve clinical practice—and thus quality of care—quality ing examples are illustrative:In one study evaluating pediatric taken (Silimper and others 2002). This chapter highlights reported that they checked for only two of the four examina- that take place over months instead of years. Indeed, better tion criteria for pneumonia cases. Only 24 percent of these quality can improve health much more rapidly than can other met minimal examination criteria in only 1 percent of cases (Beracochea and others 1995). In a study in Pakistan, only Definition and Framework 56percent ofproviders met an acceptable diagnostic standard dard for treatment (Thaver and others 1998). or maintain health.These actions take place in the context of and are influenced by political, cultural, social, and institu- tional factors (shown along the edges of figure 70.1). QUALITY DEFINITION AND POPULATION Demographic and socioeconomic makeup,including genetics seeking care. Access to the health care system is required to These deficiencies in quality of care represent neither the obtainthecarethatmaintainsorimproveshealth,butsimple failure of professional compassion nor necessarily a lack of access is not enough; the system’s capacities must be applied izations to change . Local health care systems services for individuals and populations increase the likeli- better health outcomes. 244). Political Institutional Factors Factors Health Policy Reforms Demographic Health Health and Socio- Care Structure Process Outcomes economic Access Factors The Quality of Care Cultural Social Factors Factors Source: Peabody and others 1999. Figure 70.1 Quality-of-Care Framework 1983).Atbest,however,structureisabluntapproximationof • Structure refers to stable, material characteristics (infra- process or outcomes; structural improvements by themselves structure,tools,technology) and the resources ofthe organ- rarelyimprovethehealthofapopulation. izations that provide care and the financing ofcare (levels of Process,by contrast,can be measured with every visit to a funding,staffing,payment schemes,incentives). provider. Measuring process is difficult, however, particularly • Process is the interaction between caregivers and patients in developing countries. The private nature of the doctor- are transformed into health outcomes. absence of reliable measurement tools have limited the ability deaths,or disability-adjusted life years—a measure that new methods are being developed that can provide valid meas- encompasses the
