Chapter
KEYWORDS: quality, care, health, countries, developing, process, developing countries, outcomes, providers, percent, interventions, improvement, medical, better, practice


into health outcomes. absence of reliable measurement tools have limited the ability deaths,or disability-adjusted life years—a measure that new methods are being developed that can provide valid meas- encompasses the morbidity and mortality of patients or urements ofclinical practice (Thaver and others 1998).In addi- tion or patient responsiveness to the health care system which process measures lead to better health outcomes. This outcomes makes the measurement ofprocess the preferred way Structuralmeasuresaretheeasiesttoobtainandmostcom- to assess quality. monlyusedinstudiesofqualityindevelopingcountries.Many Although good outcomes are the objective of all health evaluations have revealed shortages in medical staff, medica- actions, outcomes alone are not an efficient way to measure tionsandotherimportantsupplies,andfacilities,butmaterial quality for two reasons.The first is the quality conundrum.A measures of structure, perhaps surprisingly, are not causally patient may receive poor-quality care but may recover fully,or relatedtobetterhealthoutcomes(Donabedian1980).Although a patient may receive high-quality care for an illness such as link between such structural elements and better health out- every encounter. comes(Donabedian1988).Thenotableexceptionsarecasesin The classic framework ofstructure-process-outcome is well whichphysicalimprovementseitherincreaseaccesstoprimary established.However,in recent years the concept ofquality has care in very poor settings or increase the volume ofa clinical been expanded to include specific aims for improvement.For 1294 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | John W. Peabody, Mario M. Taguiwalo, David A. Robalino, and others Box 70.1 The Institute of Medicine’s Six Elements of Quality 1. Patient safety. Are the risks of injury minimal for 4. Timeliness.Are delays and waiting times minimized? 2. Effectiveness. Is the care provided scientifically sound energy minimized? and neither underused nor overused? 6. Equity. Is care consistent across gender, ethnic, geo- 3. Patient centeredness.Is patient care being provided in a graphic,and socioeconomic lines? waythat is respectful and responsive to a patient’s pref- erences,needs,and values? Are patient values guiding clinical decisions? Source:Institute of Medicine 2001. Crossing the Quality Chasm, broadens the concept to include had not recently received care was higher (Peabody,Tozija,and other, more contextual elements to illuminate how process others 2004). changes can improve care.It focuses on six aims:patient safety, Our quality-of-care framework supports these findings. effectiveness, patient centeredness, timeliness, efficiency, and Whenprocessisimprovedamonggroupsofproviders,theaggre- equity (see box 70.1). gateimprovementinqualityleadstobetterhealthoutcomesfor theentirepatientpopulation.Inaddition,resourcescanbeallo- Quality Assessment Perspectives. We can look at the Institute catedamongclinicalinterventionsbasedonactualeffectiveness of Medicine’s aims from two perspectives:patient perception, andtheoverallimpactofcareonthepopulation.Forexample, and technical or professional assessment.Patients’perceptions cancerchemotherapymaybeavailableandmayprolongthelives ofquality depend on their individual characteristics and affect ofcancerpatients.However,itmayresultinfewerlivessavedthan their compliance,follow-up decisions,and long-term lifestyle theexpansionofcoverageofdirectlyobservedtreatmentshort- changes (Zaslavsky and others 2000). Interpersonal relation- coursecoveragefortuberculosispatients. ships, cultural appropriateness, and gender sensitivity—long thought to
