Chapter
KEYWORDS: quality, care, health, countries, developing, process, developing countries, outcomes, providers, percent, interventions, improvement, medical, better, practice


licensing of profession- oping countries. In one seven-country study, researchers als and facilities,their accreditation or certification to perform that inappropriate treatment with antibiotics, fluids, feeding, Although these policies assume that providers’prior qualifica- or oxygen occurred in 61 percent of cases (Nolan and others tions are good predictors ofactual performance in health care 2001). Another study compared providers’ knowledge and delivery,there is little evidence that such policies have a positive practice in California and FYR Macedonia,using vignettes to effect on process or outcomes.They are more successful at bar- adjust for case-mix severity.Although the quality ofthe overall ring unqualified persons from practicing than at ensuring or aggregate process was lower in FYR Macedonia, a poor quality among those who are allowed to practice.A review of well as or better than the average Californian doctor (Peabody, ple,revealed that the regulations primarily control entry into Tozija,and others 2004). the market and ensure a minimum standard of quality In a study commissioned for this chapter,an international (Kumaranayake and others 2000). El Salvador, India, Mexico, and the Philippines), using the facility performance standards,can potentially provide ongo- sameclinical vignettes at each site. The team evaluated the ing regulatory pressure for improvement.To date,research has evidence-based criteria. Quality varied only slightly among linked to improvements in health outcomes.In a randomized countries.The within-country range ofquality ofdoctors was controlled trial of a hospital accreditation program in the 10times as great as the between-country range. Such wide KwaZulu-Natal province ofSouth Africa,researchers showed a variation strongly suggests that efforts to improve health conclusive link between the implementation of the program status must involve policies that change the quality of clinical and improvements in the accreditation standard indicators. care. However,they were unable to link those indicators to improve- ments in health outcomes (Salmon and others 2003). POLICY INTERVENTIONS TO IMPROVE QUALITY Malpractice Litigation to Enforce Legal Mandates To be The success of quality improvement policies can be measured effective in promoting quality,malpractice litigation must rely variation in quality. Two types of policies are intended to most developing countries.In India,one ofthe few developing sion ofthe medical sector under the Consumer Protection Act • those that influence provider behavior by altering the struc- of 1986 allows victims to receive redress for negligent medical tural conditions oforganization and finance or that involve practice. Although improvements have resulted, some argue the design and redesign ofhealth care systems that the system needs greater involvement of professional • those that
