Chapter
KEYWORDS: quality, care, health, countries, developing, process, developing countries, outcomes, providers, percent, interventions, improvement, medical, better, practice


and finance or that involve practice. Although improvements have resulted, some argue the design and redesign ofhealth care systems that the system needs greater involvement of professional • those that directly target provider behavior at the individual organizations to be effective . or the group level. Professional Oversight Peer review is as old as professional Within each category, the evidence is examined to see the societies. The power and the influence of such societies vary effect ofthe policy on the health outcomes ofpopulations. widely among countries .Large provider organ- Interventions Affecting Provider Practice by Changing routinely collect information on provider practices and patient Structural Conditions outcomes and use those data to guide,educate,supervise,dis- arenot strongly linked to outcomes, other components of managers used a checklist of 20 observable behaviors against structure—organization and finance—can influence process which health workers in remote provinces were rated. The 1296 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | John W. Peabody, Mario M. Taguiwalo, David A. Robalino, and others performance of providers in facilities where workers were which promotes, facilitates, and evaluates the Essential that did not adopt the reviews (Loevinsohn, Guerrero, and the Arab Republic ofEgypt,and Indonesia.COHRED aims to inspection”environment engendered by oversight leads to an services,including quality ofcare.The Quality Assurance proj- antagonistic relationship between workers and managers and ect funded by the U.S.Agency for International Development precludes cooperative problem solving and continuous has studied and shared information about quality in the devel- improvement . A qualitative study evaluating oping world since 1990.Under the Quality Assurance project Zimbabwe found that supervisors were adept at giving techni- measurement and improvement interventions and have used cal feedback but were not as proficient at making suggestions these case studies to develop a library of tools and articles to for improvement or at working with providers and patients to promote global quality improvement. solve problems (Tavrow,Kim,and Malianga 2002). Public-PrivateProvisionofCare. Inmosthealthcaresystems, National and Local Clinical Guidelines In many industrial a professional regulatory framework governs the network of treatments.(Examples ofinstitutions supporting this approach independentfor-profitphysiciansandhealthclinicsandnon- Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, and the Dutch sionsarisefromtheoftenheateddebateabouttherightbalance developed for a clinical disease or symptom. They should be provide a significant amount of care in developing countries. derived from evidence-based criteria resulting from well- Second, though there is no one prescription for striking the are derived from empirical studies, guidelines in developing frameworkhasledtoprivateprovisionof higher-qualitycare. countries can, in principle, be identical to those in industrial The
