Chapter
KEYWORDS: quality, care, health, countries, developing, process, developing countries, outcomes, providers, percent, interventions, improvement, medical, better, practice


though there is no one prescription for striking the are derived from empirical studies, guidelines in developing frameworkhasledtoprivateprovisionof higher-qualitycare. countries can, in principle, be identical to those in industrial The government of Senegal successfully contracted with countries.When resource constraints limit transferability,diag- community-based groups for preventive nutrition services. nostic and treatment guidelines may have to be modified. Eighteen months after nutrition services were implemented, Technologies such as x-ray studies have gained widest accept- severe malnutrition disappeared among children age 6 to anceinpreventiveandprimarycareservices,suchasintegrated 11 months (Marek and others 1999).The success of the pro- management of childhood illness, where they serve both as gram has led to its expansion nationwide. clinical standards and as educational guides.Including physi- cians in the development and review of guidelines has proved Targeted Education and Professional Retraining. Continuing particularly effective in the challenging process ofimplement- medical education is a common approach to improving clini- advances health outcomes (Davis and others 1995). Newer Sharing Information on Quality Improvement Technology. techniques—targeted education, case-based learning, and Worldwide interest in quality has given rise to new professional interactive and multimodel teaching techniques—have had bodies, scientific publications, and institutions dedicated to some success.In Guatemala,distance education targeting diar- sharing ideas and innovations in quality improvement. rhea and cholera case management increased accurate assess- Organizations such as the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, ment and classification of diarrhea cases by 25 percent. Improvement cultivate ideas for improvement, bring people counseling were insignificant (Flores, Robles, and Burkhalter and organizations together to learn from each other,and take 2002).In Tanzania,trainingstaffin the control ofacute respi- action to achieve results.Although the sharing of information ratory infections of young children yielded reductions in on quality health care practices has long been an established under-five mortality within two years (Mtango and Neuvians part of provider education and training networks,the sharing 1986). of information on successful systemwide policies for process improvements could potentially accelerate the scale-up of Organizational Change. In recent years, organizational quality practice. change in the health care system has been shown to influence One organization active in developing countries is the quality of care and to further the six aims of the Institute of Improving the Quality of Care in Developing Countries | 1297 systems. The emphasis is on developing organizational and ment. Team members using the PDSA model design a individual capabilities where they most profoundly affect the quality-improvement intervention (plan),implement it on simply adding a new resource or a
