Chapter
KEYWORDS: quality, care, health, countries, developing, process, developing countries, outcomes, providers, percent, interventions, improvement, medical, better, practice


monitoring • Internal enabling environmentCreating the right environ- toidentifyareasforimprovement(Tan1999). ment for change involves leadership and leadership training, • CollaborativeImprovementModelTheearlysuccessofTotal clinicians empowered to make quality improvement deci- QualityManagementtechniqueshasgivenrisetoarelated sions, and resources for quality improvement planning model,theCollaborativeImprovementModel.Itaddresses activities (Silimper and others 2002).The internal enabling broad and complex systemic processes within health care environment in Costa Rica promoted strong leadership that systemsandhasfacilitatedthescale-upofqualityimprove- led to the adoption of structural adjustment loans in the ments.Thismodel,designedtocontinuouslyimproveorgan- early stages ofhealth sector reforms.The loans were used to ments:definitionofanaim,measurement,innovation,and nutrition,even though public spending dropped and prices testingtoseewhethertheinnovationmeetstheoriginalaim. increased dramatically . An enabling envi- Thisapproachstrikesapragmaticbalancebetweentheneed ronment can also be created by teams of individuals,each foractionandtheneedtobescientificallygrounded.Ithas representing different stakeholder groups (physicians, beenusedwithsuccessinPeruandtheRussianFederation.In nurses,staffmembers,patients,and so forth) or simply by a Peru,thecollaborativeimprovementmodelwasusedbymul- strong leader with an interest in teamwork and the resources tidisciplinaryteamsin41clinicstodesignchangesaimedat to support a discrete quality improvement function for team achieving world-class tuberculosis care. The preliminary members. resultshaveledtoimpressivechangesintheprocessofcare, butitistooearlytodeterminewhethertheyhavebeeneffec- Interventions Directly Affecting Provider Practice tiveinimprovingquality(Berwick2004). • Plan-Do-Study-Act cycle The Plan-Do-Study-Act (PDSA) Practitioners are often forced to provide care in uncertain set- cycle calls for action-oriented learning in quality improve- tings.Technical limitations may reduce the ability to diagnose 1298 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | John W. Peabody, Mario M. Taguiwalo, David A. Robalino, and others or predict outcomes, or they may have only probabilistic contractor’s obligation, the methods of monitoring perform- knowledge about the efficacy oftheir proposed treatment for a ance,and the sanctions for nonperformance were only mini- tary,and physicians have few available ways to gauge their clin- ical acumen and skills.Performance-based feedback,however, HighVolumeof Care. Evidence exists that a high volume of can reward high-quality care and increase knowledge about care by individuals or institutions leads to better health out- appropriate actions.If the feedback mechanism is effective,it comes(Habibandothers2004).Physicianexperience(learning) can also serve as the basis for establishing systemwide incen- and practice (repetition) lead to fewer complications, less tives for improving quality ofcare. resourceuse,andbetterqualityforavarietyofprocedures,such as cataract surgery and laparoscopy (Brian and Taylor 2001). TrainingwithPeerReviewFeedback. In Mexico City,physi- More complex procedures, including endarterectomy, cancer cian retraining on treatment of diarrhea, combined with the surgery,andcoronarybypasssurgery,haveshownsimilareffects. use of antibiotics and increased the use of oral rehydration confined to surgical procedures (Zgibor and Orchard 2004). therapy (ORT).These improvements continued to be seen in Facilities specializing in the care ofchronic diseases such as dia- a follow-up evaluation 18 months later (Gutierrez and others betes,myocardial infarction,and heart failure are also associ- 1994). The approach has been effectively
