Chapter
KEYWORDS: quality, care, health, countries, developing, process, developing countries, outcomes, providers, percent, interventions, improvement, medical, better, practice


in the care ofchronic diseases such as dia- a follow-up evaluation 18 months later (Gutierrez and others betes,myocardial infarction,and heart failure are also associ- 1994). The approach has been effectively expanded to pre- ated with better outcomes.Debate exists over how much ofthe scribing practices for rhinopharyngitis among primary care volume effect is due to specialist care. The benefits of high- physicians,usinganinteractivetrainingworkshopandaman- volume care persist,however,even after controlling for referral agerial peer-review committee (Perez-Cuevas and others and case-mix biases.When carefully trained nonphysicians are 1996). substituted for physicians, volume effects persist but can be Performance-Based Remuneration. A potentially powerful practitioners and physician’s assistants were able to provide instrument for accelerating quality improvements involves high-quality care for common outpatient conditions such as making payments directly to providers who meet quality stan- hypertension, diabetes, asthma, otitis media, pharyngitis, and dards that are based on process indicators associated with back pain at substantially lower costs than that of physicians favorable patient outcomes. Systems that tie performance to (Douglas and others 2004). remuneration use relatively small incentives—equivalent to 3 to 10 percent of the provider’s total compensation. Performance-Based Professional Recognition. Providers Performance-based remuneration has been successfully used work in a community of peers in which professional status, in the United States to compensate both private and public prestige, and recognition are often as valuable as material providers (McBride,Neiman,and Johnson 2000). rewards. Nonmonetary incentives, such as public recognition Examples of performance-based incentives come from or disclosure,administrative privileges,and awards from pro- has implemented a pilot program in six hospitals that offers an Uganda,for example,implemented the Yellow Star Program as incentive bonus (a maximum average of17 percent ofhospital part of a broader health services improvement project. This include quality measures .In Haiti,a performance- 35 indicators of technical and interpersonal quality, and based payment scheme was set up for NGOs that provided awarded a large yellow star to facilities that scored 100 percent services to the population.The scheme resulted in all three par- in two consecutive quarters.The star was then prominently dis- ticipating NGOs reaching target immunization coverage rates played outside the facility. (Eichler,Auxila,and Pollock 2001).Thus,payment for specified TheMexicanMinistryofHealthhasimplementedastrategy and observable performance (in terms ofprovider effort,client that combines the accreditation and the training strategies applied to NGOs and private providers. Crusade for Quality in Health Care introduces quality-oriented The specific features of performance-based remuneration incentives to health facilities and medical schools. It also are crucial.A study evaluating the South African government’s
