Chapter
KEYWORDS: quality, care, health, countries, developing, process, developing countries, outcomes, providers, percent, interventions, improvement, medical, better, practice


for Quality in Health Care introduces quality-oriented The specific features of performance-based remuneration incentives to health facilities and medical schools. It also are crucial.A study evaluating the South African government’s includes public recognition in an effort to encourage learning experience in contracting with private organizations to operate and to change practice.The National Crusade has already gen- district hospitals found no cost savings—in fact, the govern- erated measurable improvements in the responsiveness of ment was spending more than ifit provided the services itself. state-level health systems (Secretaría de Salud de Mexico 2003). The contracting may have failed because remuneration was not Both types of policies examined in this section are associ- Improving the Quality of Care in Developing Countries | 1299 premature mortality and avoidable morbidity, increased or obtaining payments, for example) and thus lack crucial lines. They can spell the difference between an individual’s cent ofthe items recorded in the chart were false and had never survival or death, between an individual benefiting from the really occurred. between an individual and society rising from poverty or sink- tronic medical record (EMR) is becoming a priority for health ing deeper into it. systems worldwide.EMR technology promotes uniformity,leg- ibility, and communication, which can lead to guideline use MEASURING QUALITY and reduce prescription errors. It also holds the promise of managing populations rather than individuals by aggregating Improvingqualityrequires that we measureitaccurately.The patients into groups.However,the EMR has not always lived up successfuloutcomesdiscussedintheprevioussectionrelyonthe to its potential.In many countries,some impressive successes linksbetweenpolicyandchangesinclinicalpractice.Suchlinks, have occurred—as have spectacular failures,costing billions of however,canbecreatedanddemonstratedonlywhenvalidand dollars .The great heterogeneity in record- reliablemeasuresofprocessareeasilyunderstood,inexpensive keeping practices,problems with medical records (both paper toobtain,resistanttomanipulation,andrelatedtobetterhealth and electronic),and costs of trained medical abstractors have outcomes. led to a search for other reliable ways to measure quality. Measuring Structure Direct Observation and Recording ofVisits. Direct observa- Material measures of structure abound. Numerous facility- tion and recording of visits is a commonly used approach in based surveys in developing countries have cataloged capital developing countries (Nolan and others 2001). Ethically, the equipmentandstaffinglevels,andfinancialreportstrackbudg- provider and the patient must be informed ofthe observation ets and expenditures (but rarely production costs). Facility or recording, which introduces participation bias because inventoriesofdrugsandsuppliesaregenerallyavailable;service provider behavior may change as a result ofbeing evaluated.In utilization figures are routinely reported to national-level addition, trained observers are costly, and variation between authorities.Suchmeasurements,however,areoftenbesidethe observers is difficult to remedy. point.Evenwhenmaterialstructuraldeficienciesarecorrected, Measuringtheorganizationandfinancingofhealthcareismore poses of managing the delivery of care,are available in all
