Chapter
KEYWORDS: quality, care, health, countries, developing, process, developing countries, outcomes, providers, percent, interventions, improvement, medical, better, practice


routinely reported to national-level addition, trained observers are costly, and variation between authorities.Suchmeasurements,however,areoftenbesidethe observers is difficult to remedy. point.Evenwhenmaterialstructuraldeficienciesarecorrected, Measuringtheorganizationandfinancingofhealthcareismore poses of managing the delivery of care,are available in all but difficult.Althoughdescriptionsoftheorganizationandfinanc- the poorest settings.A data collection system,once established, ingofhealthsystemsexist,objectivefunctionalassessmentsof is ubiquitous and can provide information on charges and systems (such as patient flows, the patient referral system, or many cost inputs.Administrative data,however,lack sufficient an incorrect diagnosis was recorded in the data 30 percent of Measuring Process the time (although the diagnosis was made correctly).Overall, Technical advances have mitigated longstanding difficulties in these data reflected the actual clinical diagnosis only 57 percent measuring process. Five approaches and their strengths and ofthe time (Peabody,Luck,Jain,and others 2004).As informa- weaknesses merit consideration: chart abstraction, direct tion systems advance, accuracy problems may be mitigated, Chart Abstraction. Chart abstraction,or review of the med- Standardized Patients. Standardized patients can be a gold ical record, has long been used to measure technical quality. standard for process measurement (Luck and Peabody 2002). core strength ofthe medical record is that it is ubiquitous and have previously given their consent to participate in the study. can generally be obtained after each encounter.Chart reviews, At the conclusion ofthe visit,the standardized patient reports however, suffer from problems of legibility when notes are on the technical and interpersonal elements of process. handwritten.Often they are generated for reasons other than Standardized patients are reliable over a range of conditions recording the actual events ofthe clinical visit (legal protection and provide valid measurements that accurately capture 1300 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | John W. Peabody, Mario M. Taguiwalo, David A. Robalino, and others However,they are expensive and useful only for adult condi- tarilybymeasuringincome.Otherthingsbeingequal,ahealthy tions and only those conditions that can be simulated. Thus, individualgeneratesmoreincomethanonewhoisoftensick. they are not practical for routinely evaluating quality. Thisbenefitgoesbeyondtheperiodofillness.Researchonearly childhooddevelopmenthasshownthathigher-qualityprenatal ClinicalVignettes. Clinicalvignettesweredevelopedexplicitly and postnatal care not only decreases mortality but also for measuring quality within a group of providers and improves subsequent school performance,which is critical to evaluating quality at the population level.Vignettes are respon- futurelaborproductivity(VanderGaag2000).Themonetary sive to variation in quality,and providers readily accept them if benefitsofbetterindividualhealthcanbeassessedbyexamining they are given anonymously (Peabody, Luck, Glassman, and the individuals’expected income in the context of alife cycle others 2004). More than 20 vignettes have been used in 13 model.Expectedincomedependsontheriskofdeathatvarious countries around the world. They can be administered on pointsintimeandthecorrespondingopportunitiesforeduca- paper,by computer,or over the Internet.Providers are typically tionalattainment.Thisscenariocanbesimulatedbyimproving presented with several cases.When
