Chapter
KEYWORDS: quality, care, health, countries, developing, process, developing countries, outcomes, providers, percent, interventions, improvement, medical, better, practice


20 vignettes have been used in 13 model.Expectedincomedependsontheriskofdeathatvarious countries around the world. They can be administered on pointsintimeandthecorrespondingopportunitiesforeduca- paper,by computer,or over the Internet.Providers are typically tionalattainment.Thisscenariocanbesimulatedbyimproving presented with several cases.When process is being measured qualityandthenestimatinghowmuchthehigherqualitylowers for many providers,each provider is presented with the same mortality and increases education attainment, both of which case or set of cases, thus eliminating the need for case-mix increaseanindividual’sfutureincome(seefigure70.2). adjustment.The provider completing the vignette is asked to make a diagnosis,and specify a treatment plan.The questions Social Macroeconomic Benefits are open ended and include interactive responses that simulate Societies that have healthier populations also have higher levels the visit and evaluate the physician’s knowledge.In two sepa- of human capital and a greater capacity to generate wealth. rate, prospective validation studies among randomly selected Higher quality of care for the individual increases society’s providers,vignettes consistently demonstrated greater predic- human capital by reducing both the number of premature tive validity ofprocess than did the abstracted medical record. deaths (thus increasing the labor force) and the amount oftem- Vignettes have been validated against the gold standard of porary or permanent disability (thus improving worker pro- ductivity).Providers and insurers also benefit from lower costs tice, not just physicians’ knowledge. Vignettes have several by avoiding unnecessary or inappropriate care. Thus, society other advantages.Because exactly the same case can be given to benefits from both better healthand lower public expenditures many providers, vignettes are useful for comparison studies. for treatment,which can then be reallocated to other productive They are also useful for pre- and postevaluations of policy uses.Interventions that improve quality havean especially high interventions designed to improve quality. Finally, they are social value when they have large positive externalities (for inexpensive to administer and straightforward to score,making instance,when better process reduces the incidence of a com- them particularly useful in developing countries. municable disease). Sometimes, however, society benefits but better preventive care may experience less demand for their cur- ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND COSTS ative services and associated resources. OF QUALITY CARE Several attempts have been made to estimate the correlation between health outcomes and long-term economic growth. Policy interventions can lead to higher-quality process of care The high prevalence ofsuch diseases as malaria has been linked in some studies to a slowing ofeconomic growth by one to two quality improvement cost-effective? This section shows that it percentage points per year.These studies were severely limited is.We compare the economic benefits ofbetter quality
