Chapter
KEYWORDS: quality, care, health, countries, developing, process, developing countries, outcomes, providers, percent, interventions, improvement, medical, better, practice


slowing ofeconomic growth by one to two quality improvement cost-effective? This section shows that it percentage points per year.These studies were severely limited is.We compare the economic benefits ofbetter quality ofcare by the number of countries and by the many unobserved fac- at the individual and population levels with the costs ofimple- tors excluded from the models .These limitations menting quality improvement interventions.We then discuss suggest another way to estimate the benefits of higher quality why these interventions not only increase individual and social on health outcomes and long-term economic growth.Because welfare but also are cost-effective in the long run. diagnostic accuracy and treatment ofmalaria can be improved with better-quality care, improving quality should increase national income through reductions in mortality rates. Individual Economic Benefits Indeed,cross-countrydatasuggestthataone-yearincrease Individualsbenefitfrombetterqualityofcarebecausetheyare in life expectancy is associated with an increase in the gross physically,emotionally,and mentally healthier.These benefits domesticproduct(GDP)growthrateof1to4percentagepoints can be quantified subjectively by self-report, objectively by (Bloom,Canning,andSevilla2001).Ourownsimulationsshow Improving the Quality of Care in Developing Countries | 1301 Increase in present value expected income (percent) 40 9 5 Effect of 0 nine policy 3 intervention 8 13 1 scenarios on 18 quality Unemployment rate (percent) Source: Authors’ calculations. Note: These results model the effect on income of a policy intervention that leads to higher quality. The effect is determined as an increase in the present value of income for varying rates of unemployment. Higher quality is based on nine different scenarios of quality improvement. For each successive scenario, infant mortality rates are reduced by 1 percent and educational attainment is increased by 5 percent. The baseline possibilities are for the Islamic Republic of Iran. Figure 70.2 Economic Benefits of a Quality Intervention That Reduces Child Mortality Rates and Leads to Higher Educational Attainment Accumulated gains in GDP during a 50-year period relative to current GDP 0.20 0.18 0.16 0.14 0.12 0.10 0.08 5.0 0.06 4.0 Yearly 0.04 3.0 decline 0.02 in child 0 2.0 mortality rates 0.01 0.015 0.02 1.0 (percent) 0.025 0.03 0.035 0.04 Change in GDP growth rate from one year increase in life expectancy Source: Authors’ calculations. Figure 70.3 Gains in GDP Resulting from Reductions in Child Mortality Rates Economic Costs thatqualityimprovementscanresultinasmuchasa5percent annualreductioninchildmortalityrates,whichcangenerate, Policies that improve the quality of care have both direct and over50years,economicgainsequivalentto18percentofcur- indirect costs. Direct costs relate to the human and physical rentGDP(seefigure70.3).Similarresultswouldbeobtainedif resources needed to implement the intervention.Indirect costs the effect of better quality on morbidity and disability were
