Chapter
KEYWORDS: quality, care, health, countries, developing, process, developing countries, outcomes, providers, percent, interventions, improvement, medical, better, practice


and over50years,economicgainsequivalentto18percentofcur- indirect costs. Direct costs relate to the human and physical rentGDP(seefigure70.3).Similarresultswouldbeobtainedif resources needed to implement the intervention.Indirect costs the effect of better quality on morbidity and disability were come from more subtle changes, including alterations in the 1302 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | John W. Peabody, Mario M. Taguiwalo, David A. Robalino, and others various inputs (such as equipment and medication), in the impactlevelswereconsidered,whichwerebasedontwoprevi- ultimately in the macroeconomy.For interventions at the local MtangoandNeuvians1986). level,such as training doctors in a particular region,it is usually The analysis showed that, under average conditions, sufficient to measure direct costs. Although the level of improving quality of care for conditions of acute respiratory detailrequired can be overwhelming when the interventions illness can be very cost-effective.When the baseline quality is are complex,the calculations are usually straightforward.The low and the disease prevalence is high, an intervention that costs of local interventions depend on local prices of such raises quality has a cost-effectiveness ratio of US$132 to inputs aslabor,transportation,training kits,food,space rental, US$800 per life saved;ifthe policy intervention is ineffective or and accommodations. The cost of training providers in the the prevalence ofpneumonia is low,the average cost ofsaving appropriate treatment of childhood illnesses ranges from a a life could be more than US$2,000.When 60 percent ofcases lowof US$1 to a high of US$430 (Santoso, Suryawati, and are already appropriately diagnosed and treated, the cost- Prawaitasari 1996). effectiveness ratio rises to US$5,000 per life saved.1 The direct and indirect costs ofinterventions at the central or local government level are harder to quantify. Expanding Better Treatment of Diarrhea. Diarrhea remains one of the training programs to all public providers,enforcing standards leading causes of childhood morbidity and mortality in the for private and public providers, changing payment sys- developing world.The diarrhea incidence rate among children tems, and developing policies to protect consumers against in resource-constrained countries can reach six to seven malpractice are macro-level interventions that have direct episodes per year (Thapar and Sanderson 2004). ORT is the program-level costs. They affect the economy as a whole by accepted standard of care for acute diarrhea.Unfortunately,a changing theallocation of public resources and the relative large proportion of cases are still treated with nonrehydration policy interventions are seldom conducted,even though sys- diagnosis ofdehydration and reduced use ofunnecessary med- temwide interventions are likely to have the highest effect on ications,however,lead to better outcomes. quality and health-related benefits. Various interventions can
