Chapter
KEYWORDS: quality, care, health, countries, developing, process, developing countries, outcomes, providers, percent, interventions, improvement, medical, better, practice


though sys- diagnosis ofdehydration and reduced use ofunnecessary med- temwide interventions are likely to have the highest effect on ications,however,lead to better outcomes. quality and health-related benefits. Various interventions can make sizable changes in the diag- nostic and prescribing patterns ofproviders.Verbal case review, combined with a package of additional intervention referred Cost-Effectiveness of Improved Process to as INFECTOM (Information, Feedback, Contracting with Two interventions that vividly illustrate the cost-effectiveness Providers to Adhere to Practice Guidelines, and Ongoing chosen: detection and treatment of acute respiratory illnesses from 16 percent to 48 percent (Bloom, Canning, and Sevilla and appropriate drug use and treatment for diarrhea. 2001).One study reports that small group,face-to-face inter- ventions reduced antimicrobial prescriptions by 16 percent BetterTreatmentofPneumoniainChildren. Partofthehigh and antidiarrheal prescriptions by 7 percent among a group mortalityfromchildhoodpneumoniainthedevelopingworld of providers treating acute diarrhea in Indonesia (Santoso, canbeexplainedbypoor-qualitycare,whichisdefinedasthe Suryawati,and Prawaitasari 1996).The same study showed that inability either to accurately diagnose or to treat the disease. formal seminars reduced antimicrobial use by 10 percent and Ourprototypeinterventionhastwocostcomponents:thecost antidiarrheal use by 7 percent.On the basis ofthese studies,an ofimplementinganeducationalactivityforprovidersandthe average cost per intervention was used,ranging from US$25 to cost of treating nonsevere and severe childhood pneumonia. US$125. Theformercomponentisbasedonastudyandusesconserva- The savings from switching to a less costly treatment (instead tive high-end cost estimations (Kelley and others 2001); the of antibiotics, for example) were subtracted from the direct latter is the midpoint from another study (Stansfield and costs that are related to implementing the training activity. Shepard 1990). The number of lives saved depends on the Because other savings, such as those related to a lower use of effectof theintervention—thatis,thechangeinthepercent- inpatient services,were ignored,the estimates are conservative. ageofcasesdiagnosedandtreated;theprevalencerateofboth Savings could be greater:Two years after an ORT unit was estab- the case-fatality ratio; and the effectiveness of the treatment. fewer children with diarrhea were admitted to the pediatric Both the case-fatality ratio and the effectiveness ratio were ward,and those admitted required 56 percent less intravenous fixed at middle values suggested by earlier work (Stansfield fluid for rehydration (Martines,Phillips,and Feachem 1990). andShepard1990).Fortheotherparameters,alargerangeof Again, the number of lives saved depends on the disease variationwasconsidered,producing450scenarios.Finally,six prevalence; the effect of the policy on treatment quality; the Improving the Quality of Care in Developing Countries | 1303 population covered by each provider;the average case-fatality Such studies should be complemented by cost-benefit and Merson (1982);and the effectiveness ofthe treatment.For the gencies, for example, control groups may not be practical or latter parameter,reductions in mortality
