Chapter
KEYWORDS: quality, care, health, countries, developing, process, developing countries, outcomes, providers, percent, interventions, improvement, medical, better, practice


relevance to decision making and excellence in scien- underprovision of essential clinical services (systemwide tific rigor . microscopy for diagnosing tuberculosis,for example);stopping Observational studies are needed to document the extent overuse ofsome care (prenatal ultrasonography or unnecessary and correlates ofquality at various levels:individual providers, injections,for example);and ending misuse ofunneeded serv- tions. Apart from offering much-needed basic descriptions infections).A sadly unique feature ofquality is that poor qual- (especially in developing countries),these studies can test spe- ity can obviate allthe implied benefits ofgood access and effec- cific indicators of the dimensions of quality and can compare tive treatment.At its best,poor quality is wasteful—a tragedy in Intervention studies introduce planned changes into health it causes actual harm. care settings and assess their consequences.It is fundamentally Despite the urgency of improving health in developing important that intervention studies compare one provider countries, quality of care has been largely ignored. Both group or policy alternative with another.In addition,control providers and patients agree this must change,but how can this groups must be used so that any observed change can be goal be reached? From the information marshaled for this attributed to the intervention itself rather than to another chapter,we can draw five conclusions: source of variation. The external validity of studies is often ficult to generalize the findings and to build a body of sound countries. evidence. If randomized trials cannot be conducted, the pre- • Process,the proximate determinant ofhealth outcomes,can groups and longitudinal designs (Peabody and others 1999). vignettes and electronic medical records. 1304 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | John W. Peabody, Mario M. Taguiwalo, David A. Robalino, and others • Measured in the above ways,the process ofcare in develop- based choice market that many have envisaged. Instead, it ing countries is poor. motivates managers and providers to undertake changes that • The process ofcare can be improved in the short term. improve the delivery ofcare (Schneider and Lieberman 2001). • Policies affecting structural conditions,including the actual Outside pressure—perceived or real—appears to extend the process of care or the continual design and redesign of the quality debate beyond traditional boundaries, allowing for oping countries. (Devers,Pham,and Liu 2004).Nongovernmental and private organizations involved in health care delivery should also be We believe that two broad strategies would help to rapidly required to report basic quality measures,perhaps as a condi- improve health care quality in developing countries: tion for funding,thus ensuring that similar pressure to
