Chapter
KEYWORDS: quality, care, health, countries, developing, process, developing countries, outcomes, providers, percent, interventions, improvement, medical, better, practice


we can expect to have more accurate Implementing quality comparisons will greatly facilitate the and reliable data about clinical practice for use in making process ofpolicy evaluation and cost-benefit analysis and help qualityassessments. indicate directions for future research.Access to accurate,con- Investments in quality,however,must be judged critically as sistent quality-of-care data will compel external funders,such well.When we invest in quality,an investment can be beneficial as the World Bank,to build quality assurance into their lending but can come at a cost.So while quality goes up,value can go and development programs.As major health programs such as up or down—or costs can go up while quality actually goes the Global Fund to Fight AIDS,Tuberculosis,and Malaria are down or stays the same,thus pushing the value of care down scaled up around the world, mechanisms to measure and and undermining other efforts to improve quality. Finally, as improve care quality will grow more important. we showed for acute respiratory illness and diarrhea, quality can go up and costs go down, thus increasing overall value. Disseminating Empirical Findings on Quality Variation Examples ofthis optimal outcome must be actively sought out Public dissemination ofinformation on quality,particularly in and reported,because the success ofa given investment cannot low-literacy countries,does not seem to create the individual- be known in advance . Improving the Quality of Care in Developing Countries | 1305 macroeconomic growth or other long-term development indi- “Changing Physician Performance:A Systematic Review ofthe Effect ofContinuing Medical Education Strategies.”Journal ofthe American cators.Health outcomes can be rapidly improved in the short Medical Association 274 (9):700–5. term by ensuring the appropriateness of the circumstances Devers,K.J.,H.H.Pham,and G.Liu.2004.“What Is Driving Hospitals’ or setting under which the health care encounter occurs Patient-Safety Efforts?”Health Affairs23 (2):103–16. (structural improvement) or by increasing the likelihood that Donabedian, A. 1980. The Definition of Quality and Approaches to Its patients under the prevailing circumstances (process improve- ———.1988.“The Quality ofCare:How Can It Be Assessed?”Journal of the American Medical Association260 (12):1743–48. ment). However, this improvement will not occur sponta- Douglas W. R., D. H. Howard, E. R. Becker, E. K. Adams, and M. H. neously or routinely,despite the best intentions ofbeneficiar- Roberts.2004.“Use of Midlevel Practitioners to Achieve Labor Cost ies, providers, and governments. Quality improvement tools Savings in the Primary Care Practice of an MCO.” Health Care and technologies and information on successful quality Economics39 (3):607–25. improvement policies must be consistently shared among Eichler,R.,P.Auxila,and J.Pollock.2001.“Performance-Based Payment to developing countries to build local capacity.
