Minireview
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, axis, expression, changes, gene, epigenetic, mice, visceral, microbiota-gut-brain, modifications, gut microbiota, composition, hpa, cns


aline,dopamine,andserotoninareincreased.30,36,37Hence, neurotransmitter bioavailability, neurotransmitter turn- Figure1. Microbiota–gut–brainaxis.Thebidirectionalcommunicationbetween over rate, and normal microbial-neuronal interactions are thegutandthebrainexistsofmultiplepathways.Epigeneticchanges,under influenceofthegutmicrobiota,occurbothinthegutaswellasinthebrain. essentialforthecommunication betweentheCNSandthe .1..4.0.....E..x.p.e.r.i.m..e.n.t.a.l.B..i.o.lo..g.y..a.n.d...M..e.d.i.c.in..e....V.o.l.u.m..e..2.4..5...J..a.n.u.a.r.y..2.0..2.0................................................................................... gut microbiota. Disruption of the microbiota composition through binding the G protein-coupled receptor 41 mayaffectallofthesepathways:alterationsinmicrobiota- (GPR41) on these neurons. This interaction generates neuroninteractionandsignaltransmissionintheCNS,may action potentials and results in the release of NE from the eventuallyimpactCNSfunctionality.38,39 sympatheticnerveterminals.53–55 Indirectcommunicationinthemicrobiota-gut-brainaxis In summary, through direct or indirect interaction with involves neuroendocrine systems, the immune system, neurons, the microbiota can modulate or alter the colonic andsecretionofmetabolites.Alterationsinthesepathways signals the brain receives. Moreover, the microbiota can often change the gut environment or directly influence influence how theCNS processesthis and otherincoming microbial composition. The major neuroendocrine system information and the generation of top-down signals. involved in stress-induced GI physiology, is the Signals originating from the brain can alter gut motility hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Under stress- and permeability, which can change the gut environment ful conditions, activation of the HPA axis increases levels and, in this way, influence the composition of the ofcirculatingcortisol(CORT)inthebody.40Thestresshor- microbiota. moneCORTdirectlyandindirectlyinfluencesgutphysiol- ogy by changing the activity of regulatory regions in the Emerging role of epigenetic reprogramming brain, immune cells, smooth muscle, and gut epithelial in the microbiota-gut-brain axis cells.41–43 In adult rodents, psychological or social stress activated the HPA axis, which altered gut physiology and Histone tail modifications, DNA methylation, and non- microbiota composition.44–46 Interestingly, the gut micro- codingRNAsarethemostknownandbeststudiedepige- biota is necessary for the correct formation of the HPA netic mechanisms. Through epigenetic modifications, axis. GF mice show higher levels of HPA axis activity developmental or environmental signals are integrated (higherbasalCORTproductionorexaggeratedCORTpro- into the cell’s gene expression profile, without interfering ductionunderstress)whencomparedwithcontrols.InGF with the DNA sequence itself. Often, these modifications mice,gutcolonizationwithBifidobacteriuminfantisnormal- donotneedtheexternalsignalstoremaininplace,andlead ized the exaggerated HPA response to restraint stress, to stable long-term changes in gene expression patterns. whereascolonizationwiththeEscherichiacolifurtherexac- Asthemicrobiotaispartoftheenvironment,itcaninteract erbated the HPA response to restraint stress.47 Additional withthehost’sgenomebymodifyingthehost’sepigenome evidenceinrhesusmonkeysshowedthatprenatalexposure in the gut-brain axis. In this way, the absence or changes toCORTchangedthemicrobiotaprofileofthenewborns.48 inmicrobiotacompositioncanestablishlong-lastingepige- Postnatal premature activation of the HPA axis due to netic modifications that can ultimately affect behavior. maternal separation stress, predominantly reduced the Although epigenetic modifications are usually long- fornormalfunctioningofcolonicmucosa.Thereductionin epigenetic modifications are reversible, they can be these beneficial microorganisms could have compromised changedatlaterstages.Asaconsequence,epigeneticmod- colonicmucosalfunction,andmadethemmoresusceptible ifications serve to adapt or fine-tune the cellular gene toopportunisticbacterialinfections.49 expression profile to environmental signals. Interestingly, Althoughourgutmicrobiotaconsistsofmanybeneficial restorationofthegutmicrobiotaduringcriticalneurodeve- microorganisms, it also harbors detrimental organisms. lopmental periods or supplementation with pre- or probi- Hence, our immune system needs to be primed to
