Minireview
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, axis, expression, changes, gene, epigenetic, mice, visceral, microbiota-gut-brain, modifications, gut microbiota, composition, hpa, cns


profile to environmental signals. Interestingly, Althoughourgutmicrobiotaconsistsofmanybeneficial restorationofthegutmicrobiotaduringcriticalneurodeve- microorganisms, it also harbors detrimental organisms. lopmental periods or supplementation with pre- or probi- Hence, our immune system needs to be primed to only otics has beneficial influences on gene expression and respond to the presence of detrimental microorganisms. behavior. These beneficial changes might have been Several bacterial strains produce short-chain fatty acids causedthroughmodulationofthehost’sepigenome. (SCFAs) which can be taken up by circulating monocytes. Intheseimmunecells,SCFAfavorstheproductionofanti- The epigenome is influenced by the gut inflammatorycytokinesandprostaglandinE2.42Moreover, microbiota SCFAinducesashifttowardsananti-inflammatorypheno- type: SCFA administered to a murine macrophage cell Several metabolites, produced by the gut microbiota, can line (RAW264.7) not only prevented the production of directly or indirectly interact with the host’s epigenome. pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1b, TNF-a, IL-6) after Bacteria from the genera Eubacterium, Clostridium, and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure, but also increased Butyrivibrio are a major source for the SCFA butyrate, anti-inflammatory cytokine (IL-10) production.50 This which can act as a histone deacetylase (HDAC)-inhibitor. shift to an anti-inflammatory state in the gut is also Butyrate receptors are expressed by multiple cell types knowntomodulateneuronaldevelopment.51 throughout the body.56 For instance, the colon, liver, and SubstantialevidenceindicatesthatmicrobialSCFAsalso whiteadiposetissueofGFmiceshoweddifferenthistone3 regulate enteric glial and neuronal functionality.52 For and histone 4 tail acetylation and methylation patterns, example, enteric neurons express the type 2 monocarbox- whencomparedtocontrolanimals.Theepigeneticchanges ylatetransporter(MCT2)orotherGprotein-coupledrecep- werereversedaftercolonizationwithanormalmicrobiota, tor that can interact with SCFA butyrate. As a result, or after supplementation of the diet of the GF mice with butyrateactivatespathwaysthatultimatelyelevatecholine butyrate and other SCFAs.57 Evidence also suggests that acetyltransferase concentrations in enteric neurons. Other butyrate can cross the blood–brain barrier and change the SCFAs interact with the sympathetic nervous system epigenome in the CNS. In a rat model of depression, .......................................................................................L.o.u..w..ie..s..e.t..a.l....E..p.i.g.e.n..e.t.ic.s..i.n..t.h.e..m..ic..ro..b.i.o.t.a.-.g.u.t.-.b.r.a.i.n..a.x..is....1..4..1.. chronic butyrate treatment inhibited histone deacetylases wide-spreaddysregulatedmRNAexpressionintheamyg- inthebrain,whichleadtoincreasesinBDNFandamelio- dala of GF mice was accompanied by a vast network of rationofthephenotype.58Thepresenceofcertainbacterial dysregulatedmiRNAexpression,which accounted forthe species in the gut, such as Helicobacter pylori can change observed behavioral changes.65,66 Specifically, GF mice the expression levels of epigenetic enzymes. The presence showed decreases in miR-182-5p and miR-183-5p, which of Helicobacter pylori in the gut increases the CpG- are involved in amygdala-dependent stress and fear- methylation in the promoter region of O6-methylguanine related outputs, and decreases in miR-206-3p, which DNA methyltransferase, which ultimately decreases the is known to alter BDNF expression.66 Colonization on expression of this DNA methyltransferase in the cells of post-natal day 21 partially restored miRNA expression the gastric mucosa.59 Other bacteria are even capable of patterns, which only partially
