Minireview
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, axis, expression, changes, gene, epigenetic, mice, visceral, microbiota-gut-brain, modifications, gut microbiota, composition, hpa, cns


of the menting the diet of mice with Lactobacillus rhamnosus diet with butyrate-producing Lachnospiraceae reversed vis- changedthetranscriptionoftheGABA subunit:expres- ceral hypersensitivity in stressed rats.46 Whether this B1b sionwasincreasedincorticalbrainregions,butdecreased HDAC inhibitor also was able to reach the amygdala to intheamygdala,hippocampus,andlocuscoeruleus.Inthe preventmodulationoftheepigenomeremainstobeinves- same mice, the hippocampus revealed increases in tigated. The effects of psychological stress extend far GABA Aa2 subunit expression, whereas in the amygdala beyondthebrain,andarealsoknowntoinfluenceinflam- andprefrontalcortex,expressionwasreduced.39 matory markers through silencing of the NLRP6 gene.72 The shift towards a pro-inflammatory phenotype in The microbiota influences gene expression the gut and visceral hypersensitivity was attenuated by administration of Clostridium butyricum, which prevented through epigenetic reprogramming the gene silencing of NLRP6.73 Animal models of early The epigenome in the microbiota-gut-brain axis has lifestress,suchasmaternalseparation,offerthepossibility not been widely studied. However, recent advancements to interfere with critical (neuro) developmental models. in this field are starting to unravel the involvement Therefore, the maternal separation model has been of epigenetics. In the aforementioned studies, the widely used to study the disorders of the gut-brain axis .1..4.2.....E..x.p.e.r.i.m..e.n.t.a.l.B..i.o.lo..g.y..a.n.d...M..e.d.i.c.in..e....V.o.l.u.m..e..2.4..5...J..a.n.u.a.r.y..2.0..2.0................................................................................... as it leads to increases in gut permeability, gut inflamma- compelling evidence suggests that the gut microbiota tion, visceral sensitivity, and induces HPA axis hyperreac- formagatewaytoaltertheepigeneticallymediatedpatho- tivity,depressive-likebehavior,anxiety,andfear.74–76These physiologyofgut-braindisorders. functional and behavioral changes are mediated by changes in DNA methylation and histone modifications Authors’ contributions: TL, ACJ, AO, TYand BGVM con- at key genes in the CNS.77–82 These epigenetic changes tributed equally to writing the manuscript. TL and BGVM arekeyinthelong-lastingbehavioralchangesandareinter- revisedthemanuscript. esting targets for reversal of the observed phenotypes. Visceral hypersensitivity was ameliorated after intrathecal DECLARATIONOFCONFLICTINGINTERESTS injections of HDAC inhibitors, whereas dietary methyl donor supplementation rescued depressive-like behav- The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with ior.75,83 Concomitantly, maternal separation also changes respecttotheresearch,authorship,and/orpublicationofthis the composition of the microbiota of separated pups.84,85 article. Interventions with pre- or probiotics, during neonatal FUNDING exposure to maternal separation, were able to attenuate the effects of maternal separation on neurotransmitters in Theauthor(s)disclosedreceiptofthefollowingfinancialsup- the hypothalamus, intestinal cytokines, anxiety behavior, port for the research, authorship, and/or publication of this prefrontal cortex-mediated fear regulation, or visceral article: Dr. Greenwood-Van Meerveld is the recipient of a hypersensitivity. Prebiotic interventions after weaning Senior Research Career Scientist award (1IK6BX003610-01) also showed to be effective in attenuating visceral hyper- fromtheDepartmentofVeteransAffairs. sensitivity. Interventions that aimed to restore gut barrier functionalsonormalizedmicrobiotacomposition.86–90 ORCIDID Summary and conclusions TijsLouwies The microbiota-gut-brain axis is a critical component for
