Chapter
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cost, people, interventions, percent, countries, type, intervention, developing, control, type diabetes, disease, care, saving, cost saving


Diabetes: The Pandemic and Potential Solutions K. M. Venkat Narayan, Ping Zhang, Alka M. Kanaya, Desmond E. Williams,MichaelM. Engelgau,GiuseppinaImperatore, andAmbadyRamachandran NATURE AND DISTRIBUTION OF DIABETES people age 20 to 79 (table 30.1). The prevalence of diabetes was higher in developed countries than in developing coun- Diabetes is a metabolic disease characterized by hyperglycemia tries. In the developing world, the prevalence was highest in resulting from defects in insulin secretion, insulin action, or Europe and Central Asia and lowest in Sub-Saharan Africa. both (American Diabetes Association 2004). Some of these variations may reflect differences in the age structures and level of urbanization of the various popula- tions.By2025,theworldwideprevalenceisprojectedtobe6.3 Classification of Diabetes percent, a 24 percent increase compared with 2003. The Diabetes takes three major forms.Type 1 diabetes results from largestincreaseinprevalenceby2025isexpectedtobeinEast destruction ofthe beta cells in the pancreas,leading to absolute Asia and the Pacific,and the smallest in Sub-Saharan Africa. insulin deficiency. It usually occurs in children and young In terms of those affected, the biggest increase in the devel- adults and requires insulin treatment.Type 2 diabetes,which oping countries is projected to take place among adults of accounts for approximately 85 to 95 percent of all diagnosed workingage. cases, is usually characterized by insulin resistance in which In 2003, 194 million people worldwide ages 20 to 79 had target tissues do not use insulin properly.A third type of dia- diabetes,and by 2025,this number is projected to increase to betes,gestational diabetes,is first recognized during pregnancy. 333million,a72percentincrease(table30.1).Thedeveloping Other rare types of diabetes include those caused by genetic worldaccountedfor141millionpeoplewithdiabetes(72.5per- conditions (for example, maturity-onset diabetes of youths), cent of the world total) in 2003.During the same period,the surgery,drug use,malnutrition,infections,and other illnesses. numberofpeoplewithdiabetesisprojectedtodoubleinthree ofthesixdevelopingregions:theMiddleEastandNorthAfrica, SouthAsia,andSub-SaharanAfrica. The Burden of Diabetes Diabetes affects persons of all ages and races. The disease Diabetes-Related Mortality and Disability. The death rate reducesbothaperson’squalityoflifeandlifeexpectancyand of men with diabetes is 1.9 times the rate for men without imposesalargeeconomicburdenonthehealthcaresystemand diabetes, and the rate for women with diabetes is 2.6 times onfamilies. that for women without diabetes (W. L. Lee and others 2000). Premature mortality caused by diabetes results in an Secular Trend and Projections. In 2003, the worldwide estimated 12 to 14 years of life lost (Manuel and Schultz prevalence of diabetes was estimated at 5.1 percent among 2004; Narayan and others 2003). Cardiovascular disease Table 30.1 Estimated Numbers of People Age 20 to 79 with Diabetes, Mortality, DALYs, and Direct Medical Costs Attributable to Diabetes, by Regions
