Chapter
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cost, people, interventions, percent, countries, type, intervention, developing, control, type diabetes, disease, care, saving, cost saving


20 to 79 Diabetes-related complications include microvascular dis- totaled at least US$129 billion and may have been as high as eases (for example, retinopathy, blindness, nephropathy, and US$241 billion (table 30.1).In the developing world,the costs kidney failure) and macrovascular diseases (coronary heart dis- were highest in Latin America and the Caribbean and lowest in ease, stroke, peripheral vascular disease, and lower-extremity Sub-Saharan Africa. The direct health care costs of diabetes amputation). Those complications result in disability. In the United States, a much higher proportion of people with dia- depending on local prevalence and sophistication ofthe treat- betes than ofpeople without diabetes have physical limitations: ments available (International Diabetes Federation 2003b). 66 percent compared with 29 percent (Ryerson and others 2003). Disabilities are even more pronounced among older Indirect and Intangible Costs. In developing countries, the people (Gregg and others 2000). indirect costs of diabetes are at least as high, or even higher, betes resulted in 19,996,000 disability-adjusted life years Because the largest predicted rise in the number ofpeople with (DALYs) worldwide.More than 80 percent ofthe DALYs result- diabetes in the next three decades will be among those in the ing from diabetes were in developing countries (table 30.1). economically productive ages of 20 to 64 (King,Aubert, and East Asia and the Pacific had the largest burden,and the Middle Herman 1998),the future indirect costs ofdiabetes will be even East and North Africa had the smallest burden.DALYs result- larger than they are now. ing from diabetes increased by 250 percent worldwide from Diabetes lowers people’s quality of life in many ways, 1990 to 2001 and by 266 percent for low- and middle-income including their physical and social functioning and their countries (Mathers and others 2000). perceived physical and mental well-being. With a value of 592 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | K. M. Venkat Narayan, Ping Zhang, Alka M. Kanaya, and others 1representing the health-related quality of life without illness indigenouspopulationsandindevelopingeconomies(Rowley and 0 representing death, people with type 2 diabetes had a and others 1997; Williams and others 2001). Conversely, in value of 0.77 in the population of the United Kingdom developed countries, those in lower socioeconomic groups prospective diabetes study (Clarke,Gray,and Holman 2002). haveahigherriskofobesityandconsequentlyoftype2diabetes (Eversonandothers2002).Surrogatesforsocioeconomicsta- tus,suchaslevelofeducationattainedandincome(Paeratakul Risk Factors for Diabetes andothers2002;Robbinsandothers2001)areinverselyasso- Risk factors for diabetes vary by disease type. ciatedwithdiabetesinhigh-incomecountries. Type1Diabetes. Type1diabetesismostlikelyapolygenicdis- ease,andanumberofpotentialenvironmentalriskfactorshave INTERVENTIONS AND DELIVERY MODES beenimplicated—includingdietaryfactors;breastfeeding;initi- Interventionsagainstdiabetesincludethoseforpreventingthe ationofbovinemilk;infectiousagents(forexample,enterovirus, disease,thosefordetectingthediseaseinitsasymptomaticstage, rotavirus,and rubella); chemicals; and toxins—but the results andthoseformanagingthediseasetoreduceitscomplications.
