Chapter
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cost, people, interventions, percent, countries, type, intervention, developing, control, type diabetes, disease, care, saving, cost saving


nephropathy using III 47,400 (Klonoff and Schwartz 2000) ACE inhibitors for identified cases • Annual eye examinations Reduction of 60 to 70 percent in serious I 6,000 (Klonoff and Schwartz 2000; Vijan, Hofer, visionloss and Hayward 2000) • Foot care in people with high risk of ulcers Reduction of 50 to 60 percent in serious foot I Cost saving (Ragnarson and Apelqvist 2001) disease • Aspirin use Reductionof28percentinmyocardialinfarctions, I Not available reductionof18percentincardiovasculardisease • ACE inhibitor use in all people with Reduction of 42 percent in nephropathy; I 8,800 (Golan, Birkmeyer, and Welch 1999) diabetes 22 percent drop in cardiovascular disease • Influenza vaccinations among the elderly Reduction of 32 percent in hospitalizations; II-2 3,100 (Sorensen and others 2004) for type 2 diabetes 64percent drop in respiratory conditions and death • Preconception care for women of Reduction of 30 percent in hospital charges and II-2 Cost saving (Klonoff and Schwartz 2000) reproductive age 25 percent in hospital days Source:Authors. Note:mmHg (cid:1)millimeters of mercury; QALY (cid:1)quality-adjusted life year. a. I indicates evidence from at least one randomized, controlled trial; II-1 indicates evidence from a well-designed, controlled trial without randomization; II-2 indicates evidence from cohort or case con- trol studies; and III indicates opinions of respected authorities (U.S. Preventive Services Task Force 1996). b. We adjusted cost-effectiveness ratios to 2002 U.S. dollars using the consumer price index for medical care. In cases in which multiple studies evaluated the cost-effectiveness of an intervention, we report the median cost-effectiveness ratio. 594 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | K. M. Venkat Narayan, Ping Zhang, Alka M. Kanaya, and others on knowledge,frequency,and accuracy of self-monitoring of ratios—eachweightedbyitsshare(Barceloandothers2003)— bloodglucose;self-reporteddietaryhabits;andglycemiccon- foroutpatientcare,inpatientcare,drugsandlaboratorytests, trol. Effects on lipids, physical activity, weight, and blood andtreatmentfordiabeticcomplications.Thecostratioforeach pressure varied. costcomponentwascalculatedasthecostofmedicalservicesor drugsintheUnitedStatesdividedbythecostofthesameserv- icesordrugsinLatinAmericaandtheCaribbean.U.S.datafor COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERVENTIONS medicalservicesanddrugsforroutinediabetescare,plustreat- ANDPRIORITIES ment cost for diabetes complications, were obtained from a 1998 cost-effectiveness Markov model of the U.S.Centers for Most ofthe interventions to prevent and treat diabetes and its Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Data for laboratory complications significantly affect the use ofhealth services.The service were obtained from the 2001 Clinical Diagnostic limitations of clinical trials include their failure in most cases Laboratory Fee Schedule from the U.S. Centers for Medicare tocapture the entire intervention effect over a lifetime and to Services (available from Data for Latin include all segments ofa population to whom the intervention America and the Caribbean were obtained from three coun- often requires the
