Chapter
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cost, people, interventions, percent, countries, type, intervention, developing, control, type diabetes, disease, care, saving, cost saving


lifetime and to Services (available from Data for Latin include all segments ofa population to whom the intervention America and the Caribbean were obtained from three coun- often requires the use ofcomputer simulation models,but data PolicyDivisionoftheBrazilianMinistryofHealth),andMexico availability,technical complexity,and resource needs present a (Villarreal-Riosandothers2000). significant barrier to constructing such models for developing We applied Mulligan and others’framework (2003) to esti- countries.Furthermore,data on interventions are often avail- mate the costs ofintervention and diabetes care in each devel- able only from developed countries, and these data are often oping region.Assuming that cost estimates are available for one extrapolated to developing countries. ofthe regions,this framework allows the development ofa rel- ative cost index for health care services that can then be used to obtain cost estimates for the other five regions.Using costs esti- Estimating the Cost-Effectiveness of Interventions mated by Mulligan and others (2003),we first estimated three inDeveloping Countries To assess the cost-effectiveness of interventions in developing and inpatient services,and laboratory tests and procedures.We countries,weupdatedtheresultsfromKlonoffandSchwartz’s then combined the three indexes into one overall index for dia- (2000) comprehensive review by including studies that were betes care in accordance with the share of each component in published up to 2003. Table 30.2 summarizes the cost- developing countries (Barcelo and others 2003). Finally, we effectiveness of interventions for the developed countries, estimated the costs of intervention and diabetes care in the mainly in the United States. The results show that the cost- other five developing regions by multiplying the cost ofcare in effectiveness of interventions varies greatly—from cost saving the Latin America region by the overall regional relative cost (aninterventionisbothmoreeffectiveandlessexpensivethan index. the comparator) to US$73,500 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY)gained. Ranking Implementation Priorities Weestimatedthecost-effectivenessratioofdiabetesinterven- tions for the six developing regions shown in table 30.3. We We assessed the implementation priority and feasibility of assumed that the effectiveness of these interventions, as interventions,as explained in table 30.3. measuredinQALYs,wasthesameasindevelopedcountriesbut that the cost of interventions and other diabetes care differed Level 1 Interventions. All three interventions in this category betweendevelopedanddevelopingcountriesandalsoamongthe are cost saving and are also feasible in terms ofall four aspects six developing regions. Using this assumption, we estimated considered. The barrier to implementing these interventions the cost-effectivenessratioforadevelopingregionasthecost- may be a short-term hike in intervention costs. effectivenessratiointhedevelopedcountry,mainlyrepresented Glycemic control in a population with poor control (hemo- bythe UnitedStates,multipliedbytheratioofcostsinthedevel- globin A1c greater than 9 percent or another measure of opingregiontothecostinthedevelopedcountries,whichwe glucose control in situations where HbA1c tests may be
