Chapter
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cost, people, interventions, percent, countries, type, intervention, developing, control, type diabetes, disease, care, saving, cost saving


than 8 percent Screening for undiagnosed 5,140 6,910 8,550 7,260 4,280 3,870 ++ 3 diabetes Annual screening for 3,310 4,450 5,510 4,680 2,760 2,500 ++ 3 microalbuminuria Source:Authors. (the level of medical technologies or expertise needed for implementing an intervention), capital intensity (the amount of capital required for an intervention), and cultural acceptability (appropriateness of an intervention in terms of social norms and/or religious beliefs). ++++ indicates feasible for all four aspects, +++ indicates feasible for three of the four, ++ indicates feasible for two of the four, and +indicates feasible for one of the four. b. Implementing priority was assessed by combining the cost-effectiveness of an intervention and its implementation feasibility; 1 represents the highest priority and 3 represents the lowest priority. glucose-lowering agents, and insulin. Patient education is an For example,the mean HbA1c level for people with diabetes essential component of these interventions to encourage in India was 8.9 percent in 1998 (Raheja and others 2001). patients to comply with medication regimes and to change to Asurvey conducted by the International Diabetes Federation and maintain healthy lifestyles. in 1997 (2003b) showed that no country in Africa had 100 per- Glucoseisgenerallypoorlycontrolledinpeoplewithboth cent accessibility to insulin. Ensuring adequate access to type1andtype2diabetes,mostlybecauseoflackofaccessto insulin should be an important priority for developing insulin and other diabetes supplies in developing countries. countries. 596 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | K. M. Venkat Narayan, Ping Zhang, Alka M. Kanaya, and others Blood pressure control for people with diabetes and hyper- the prevalence of diabetes in all regions. The expertise tension reduces the incidence of both microvascular and required for the intervention, such as dietitians and exercise include an ACE inhibitor,thiazide diuretics,or a beta blocker. dle the large populations eligible for the intervention may Blood pressure control is cost saving mainly because ofits large present a barrier to implementing the intervention in many health benefits and relatively low intervention costs.Even in the developing countries. United States,moderate blood pressure control costs less than People with diabetes are at higher risk of complications US$250 per patient per year. Because many blood pressure from influenza and pneumococcal infections than those medications are generic drugs, the costs are much lower in without diabetes. Influenza vaccinations are a relatively cost- developing countries. In addition, the prevalence of people effective intervention,mainly because of the low intervention with poor control ofblood pressure may be high in developing cost.However,the level ofadoption for
