Chapter
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cost, people, interventions, percent, countries, type, intervention, developing, control, type diabetes, disease, care, saving, cost saving


cost- developing countries. In addition, the prevalence of people effective intervention,mainly because of the low intervention with poor control ofblood pressure may be high in developing cost.However,the level ofadoption for the intervention would countries.For example,in Latin America and the Caribbean, depend on a country’s ability to deliver the intervention to the 60 percent of people with type 2 diabetes in 2000 had blood targeted population. pressure higher than 140/90 mmHg(Gagliardino, de la Hera Thedetectionofproliferativediabeticretinopathyandmac- and Siri 2001). ularedemabydilatedeyeexaminationfollowedbyappropriate Complications related to foot problems are common among laser photocoagulation therapy prevents blindness. Annual diabetics in developing countries. For example, in India, screeningandtreatmentprogramsfordiabeticretinopathycost 43percent of diabetes patients had foot-related complications US$700orlessperQALYgainedindevelopingcountries.The (Raheja and others 2001).Interventions for foot care are low intervention is more cost-effective among older people,those tech and require little capital. Interventions for foot care in whorequireinsulin(KlonoffandSchwartz2000),orthosewith developing countries should include educational programs for poor glucose control (Vijan, Hofer, and Hayward 2000). In patients and professionals (for example,on foot hygiene,treat- addition,screeninglessfrequently,suchaseverytwoyears,may ment of calluses,awareness of functional infections,and care bemorecost-effectivethanscreeningeveryyear(Vijan,Hofer, for skin injuries);access to appropriate footwear;and multidis- and Hayward 2000). Eye complications among people with ciplinary clinics.All three interventions could be cost saving, diabetes are common in developing countries; for example, mainly because the cost of the interventions is low and the 39percentofpeoplewithdiabetesinIndiahadeye-relatedcom- interventions can reduce the risk offoot ulceration and ampu- plications(Rajalaandothers1998).Althoughlasertreatmentis tation,which are costly.Applying these interventions for high- aneffectiveintervention,suchtreatmentmaynotbeavailablein risk patients,such as those with at least one previous foot ulcer manydevelopingcountriesormaybeextremelycostly. or amputation, would yield even larger savings (Klonoff and ACE inhibitors can lower the blood pressure of those with Schwartz 2000). hypertension and delay the onset or prevent further progres- sion of renal disease for those with diabetes. Compared with Level 2 Interventions. The six interventions in this category screening for microalbuminuria and treating only those who are either cost saving and not feasible in one or more aspects or have the condition,offering ACE inhibitors to all people with cost less than US$1,500 per QALY and are at least moderately diabetes was more cost-effective at less than US$1,020 per feasible. Thus, interventions in this category represent good QALY gained.This intervention was more cost-effective among value for money but may present some difficulties in terms of younger people and was sensitive to the cost of drug. Thus, feasibility. lowering the cost ofthe medication is a key factor for the suc- Preconception care among women of reproductive age cess ofthis intervention
