Chapter
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cost, people, interventions, percent, countries, type, intervention, developing, control, type diabetes, disease, care, saving, cost saving


sensitive to the cost of drug. Thus, feasibility. lowering the cost ofthe medication is a key factor for the suc- Preconception care among women of reproductive age cess ofthis intervention in developing countries. includes patient education and intensive glucose management. Smoking cessation includes both counseling and using This intervention reduces short-term hospital costs for both medication such as a nicotine patch. Smoking cessation mothers and infants and improves birth outcomes. However, appears to be the least cost-effective among the level 2 inter- the intervention may not be feasible in some developing ventions. However, the benefits of smoking cessation may be countries because ofthe resources needed for the intervention underestimated because our calculations only took the reduced and the difficulty ofreaching the target population. risk ofCVD into account (Earnshaw and others 2002).Adding The lifestyle intervention for preventing type 2 diabetes the health benefits derived from preventing cancer and pul- costs US$60 to US$130 per QALY over a lifetime,depending monary diseases would improve the cost-effectiveness of on the region.The potential population eligible for a lifestyle smoking cessation.Considering the high prevalence of smok- intervention (those with impaired glucose tolerance or ing in developing countries, smoking cessation should be a impaired fasting glucose) is large in developing countries.The high-priority intervention,but the availability of the nicotine International Diabetes Federation (2003b) estimates that the patch may be a barrier to implementing this intervention in prevalence ofimpaired glucose tolerance was at least as high as developing countries. Diabetes: The Pandemic and Potential Solutions | 597 Level 3 Interventions. The five interventions included in this antihypertensive medications—aspirin, statin, and folic acid category cost at least US$1,640 per QALY but could cost as (seealsochapter33).Currently,neitherisitavailableforuse, much as US$8,550 per QALY.Compared with the level 1 and 2 norhaveestimatesofitsbenefitsandadverseeffectsbeencon- interventions, those in this category are also less feasible. In firmed in a formal, randomized, controlled trial. The idea is general, depending on cost-effectiveness and feasibility, these thusstilltheoretical.Thecost-effectivenessofthishypothetical interventions may not always be justifiable for all people in pillwas,however,simulatedusingacomputermodelofpeople However, these interventions may be reasonable for selected and others 2004), and the assessment found that a polypill subpopulation groups,such as those who can afford them. intervention would cost US$11,000 per QALY gained. The Metformin therapy for preventing type 2 diabetes among intervention would be cost saving if such a pill cost US$1.28 people at high risk,such as those with prediabetes,is feasible orlessperday.Weestimatedthatthecost-effectivenessratioof because the drug is affordable in many developing countries; the polypill
