Chapter
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cost, people, interventions, percent, countries, type, intervention, developing, control, type diabetes, disease, care, saving, cost saving


be cost saving if such a pill cost US$1.28 people at high risk,such as those with prediabetes,is feasible orlessperday.Weestimatedthatthecost-effectivenessratioof because the drug is affordable in many developing countries; the polypill ranged from US$560 to US$1,280 per QALY however, the intervention may not be good value for money. gainedforthesixdevelopingregions.Thisresultwassensitive Cholesterol control intervention for people with diabetes falls tochangesinthecostoftheintervention,buttheintervention into the same category. The cost-effectiveness of both these remainedcost-effectivewithinthemostlikelyrangesofitscost interventions would improve if the costs of the drug could be (Sorensenandothers2004).Abarriertothisintervention,in lowered. addition to the feasibility of producing such pill, is that its The aim ofintensive glucose control is to lower the glucose benefitsandsideeffectswouldstillhavetobeestablishedina level ofa person with diabetes to a level close to that ofa per- randomizedclinicaltrial. son without diabetes.Implementing this intervention is a lower priority,mainly because of its relatively low cost-effectiveness Cost-Effectiveness of Diabetes Education in the context of the limited health care resources in develop- ing countries. Although the U.K. Prospective Diabetes Study Peoplewithdiabetesplayacentralroleinmanagingtheirdis- clearly demonstrates that lowering glucose levels can prevent or ease. Thus, diabetes education is an integral part of diabetes delay long-term diabetes complications (UKPDS Group 1998), care.The goal of diabetes education is to support the efforts the marginal return on very intensive glucose control in devel- of people with diabetes to understand the nature of their oping countries was relatively small. illness and its treatment; to identify emergency health prob- Screening for undiagnosed diabetes is a low-priority inter- lemsatearly,reversiblestages;toadheretoself-carepractices; vention mainly because of its relatively high cost per QALY. and to make necessary changes to their health habits while intervention for subpopulation groups,such as those that can deliver diabetes education programs in various settings. have a high prevalence ofundiagnosed diabetes.In the United Evaluatingtheeffectivenessofhealtheducationischallenging States,for example,screening for undiagnosed diabetes among becauseof thedifficultyof separatingoutitseffectfromthat African Americans was estimated to be 10 times more cost- of other interventions. Nevertheless, a review of literature effective than screening among other population groups (CDC publishedintheUnitedStatessuggeststhatself-management Diabetes Cost-Effectiveness Study Group 1998). In addition, diabetes education may be cost-effective (Klonoff and screening for undiagnosed diabetes may be a worthwhile inter- Schwartz2000). vention for patients with risk factors for other chronic diseases, Training in diabetes self-management reduces medical such as hypertension,highlipid profiles,and prediabetes. costs for diabetes care in developing countries in the short Annual screening for microalbuminuria was a low-priority term.A multicenter intervention study in 10 Latin American intervention because screening added costs with no significant countries demonstrated that an education program could benefits.Treating
