Chapter
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cost, people, interventions, percent, countries, type, intervention, developing, control, type diabetes, disease, care, saving, cost saving


screening for microalbuminuria was a low-priority term.A multicenter intervention study in 10 Latin American intervention because screening added costs with no significant countries demonstrated that an education program could benefits.Treating all persons with diabetes with ACE inhibitors reduce the cost ofdrugs by 62 percent (International Diabetes was a better treatment option than screening for microalbu- Federation 2003b),and another program in Argentina found a minuria and treating only those who have the condition. reduction in diabetes-related costs of38 percent (Gagliardino and Etchegoyen 2001). Because the costs of education pro- grams are generally low,the intervention may be cost-effective. Cost-Effectiveness of a Polypill to Prevent CVD Training patients to better manage their diabetes is also A meta-analysis estimated that a hypothetical polypill could feasible because of its low technical complexity, low capital reduce the risk of CVD by 80 percent among all people over requirements,and cultural acceptability.Thus,diabetes educa- 55 or people with diabetes of any age (Wald and Law 2003). tion should be a high-priority intervention for all developing This hypothetical pill is a combination of three half-dose regions. 598 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | K. M. Venkat Narayan, Ping Zhang, Alka M. Kanaya, and others LESSONS AND EXPERIENCE had hypertension,53 percent had high cholesterol,and 45 per- cent had abnormal triglycerides (Gagliardino,de la Hera,and A number of lessons can be learned from the experiences Siri 2001). in countries where the interventions described have been implemented. Quality of Diabetes Care Small,single-site studies indicate that several interventions to Prevention improve quality ofcare at the patient,provider,or system lev- Data are sparse on community- or population-based strategies els are promising (Narayan and others 2004). A systematic for preventing diabetes along with other chronic diseases such review (Renders and others 2001) found that multifaceted pro- as CVD.Available studies on preventing type 2 diabetes have fessional interventions may enhance providers’performance in researchers generally agree that type 2 diabetes can be prevent- involving regularly contacting and tracking patients by means ed or its onset delayed.Putting these results into practice,how- of computerized tracking systems or through nurses can also ever, is fraught with difficulties and unanswered questions, improve diabetes management;that patient-oriented interven- such as the following: tions can improve patients’outcomes;and that nurses can play an important role in patient-oriented interventions by educat- • Who would benefit from diabetes prevention? ing patients and facilitating patients’ adherence to treatment • How can those who may benefit be identified? regimes.(See also
