Chapter
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cost, people, interventions, percent, countries, type, intervention, developing, control, type diabetes, disease, care, saving, cost saving


patient-oriented interventions by educat- • Who would benefit from diabetes prevention? ing patients and facilitating patients’ adherence to treatment • How can those who may benefit be identified? regimes.(See also chapter 70.) • What are the costs and cost-effectiveness of diabetes pre- Interventions that could modify providers’behavior include vention at a population level? education as part of more complex interventions that also • Howshouldresultsbeextrapolatedfromdevelopedcountries focus on systems and on the organization of practices—for to developing countries, whose priorities and approaches example,feedback on performance,reminder systems,consen- systemic interventions include the use of continuous quality improvement techniques;feedback on performance;physician Treatment incentives for quality;nurses to provide diabetes care (which is The quality of diabetes care generally remains suboptimal typically provided by physicians);computerized reminder sys- worldwide,regardless of a particular country’s level of devel- tems for providers,alone or in combination with a perform- ers 2003;Garfield and others 2003).The Costs of Diabetes in systems to improve regular follow-up;dedicated blocks oftime Europe—Type 2 study,conducted in eight European countries, set aside for diabetes patients in primary care practices; team found suboptimal diabetes care in each country (Liebl,Mata, care; electronic medical record systems; and other methods, and Eschwege 2002). In the United States, population-based such as telephone and mailing reminders, chart stickers, and surveys in the 1990s among adults age 18 to 75 with diabetes flow sheets to prompt both providers and patients. found that only 63 percent ofthem had had a dilated eye exam- Interventions that empower patients can be successful com- ination and only 55 percent had had a foot examination with- ponents of diabetes programs. A systems-oriented approach in the past year,18 percent had poor glycemic control,42 per- using manual or computerized systems that remind patients to cent had good cholesterol control,and 66 percent had a blood make follow-up appointments and that prompt staffmembers pressure within the normal range (Saaddine and others 2002). to generate reminder cards for patients can improve compli- The Diabcare-Asia project was conducted in the late 1990s. ance with follow-up and enhance efficiency ofoffice practices. Results from India,Singapore,and Taiwan (China) found that In addition,comprehensive implementation of multiple risk- in 1998,32 to 50 percent of the diabetic population had poor factor interventions in real-life settings has been shown to glycemic control (equivalent to HbA1c (cid:2) 8 percent), 43 to reduce vascular events by more than 50 percent among people 67percent had high cholesterol (greater than 5.2 millimoles per with diabetes (Gaede and others 2003).
