Chapter
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cost, people, interventions, percent, countries, type, intervention, developing, control, type diabetes, disease, care, saving, cost saving


of the benefits of CONCLUSIONS diabetes education on outcomes is lacking, and organized research to assess effective components of diabetes education A growing diabetes pandemic is unfolding with rapid increases and their impact on control ofrisk factors and long-term out- in the prevalence oftype 2 diabetes.The direct health care costs comes should be a priority. ofdiabetes worldwide amount to 2003 US$129 billion per year. Estimates indicate that developing countries spend between Epidemiological and Economics Research 2.5 and 15.0 percent of their annual direct health budgets on diabetes care,and families with diabetic members spend 15 to Scant data are available on the future burden ofdiabetes and its 25 percent oftheir incomes on diabetes care. complications in developing countries.Data on trends in and A whole array ofeffective interventions to prevent diabetes the effects ofrisk factors for diabetes in developing countries— and its complications is available, and we have attempted to obesity; birthweight; physical inactivity; television viewing; assess their potential cost-effectiveness in developing regions. dietary factors;fast foods;socioeconomic factors;and effects of Using these estimations and a qualitative assessment ofthe fea- urbanization, industrialization, globalization, and stress—are sibility of implementation,we have prioritized available inter- also sparse.Low-cost ways to obtain such data in a standardized ventions into the following three categories: manner may be worth considering.More data are also needed on the costs ofdiabetes,the impact ofthe disease on quality of • level 1—cost saving and highly feasible life, and the cost-effectiveness of various interventions in the • level 2—cost saving or cost less than US$1,500 per QALY context of developing countries (International Diabetes but pose some feasibility challenges Federation 2003a). • level 3—cost between US$1,640 and US$8,550 per QALY and pose significant feasibility challenges. Health Systems and Operational Research Greater emphasis on translation research is needed. Well- Table 30.4presents a summary of all major diabetes inter- comeswillhelp(TRIADStudyGroup2002).Researchaimedat implementation priority. understanding system-level complexity and finding ways to In addition,we propose diabetes education as an essential deliver chronic disease care that takes such complexity into intervention. However, more organized research into the account is also likely to yield profitable results (Institute of precise components of diabetes education and its effect on 600 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | K. M. Venkat Narayan, Ping Zhang, Alka M. Kanaya, and others Table 30.4 Key Cost-Effective Interventions for Preventing and Treating Diabetes and Its Complications Intervention Description Applicable population Major effect Level 1a • Glycemic control in people with Insulin,
