NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: anastrozole, liver, cancer, breast, breast cancer, aromatase, injury, women, pubmed, liver injury, pmid, pubmed pmid, inhibitors, postmenopausal, alt


are reported to be elevated in 2% to 4% of women treated with anastrozole, but these elevations are usually mild, asymptomatic and self-limited, rarely requiring dose modification. There have been rare instances of clinically apparent liver injury associated with anastrozole therapy, typically arising within 1 to 4 months of starting treatment and having variable presentations but generally with a hepatocellular or mixed serum enzyme pattern (Case 1). Too few instances have been described in the literature to provide spe cific 2 LiverTox published cases, but low levels of autoantibodies were sometimes found. Recovery is usually rapid once anastrozole is stopped. There have been no cases of acute liver failure, chronic hepatitis or vanishing bile duct syndrome attributed to anastrozole use. Unlike tamoxifen, anastrozole has not been associated with development of fatty liver disease, although some degree of steatosis and steatohepatitis have been mentioned in descriptions of liver biopsies from acute cases. According to the product label, anastrozole has been linked to cases of hypersensitivity reactions and Stevens-Johnson syndrome as well as cases of hepatitis with jaundice. Likelihood score: C (probable cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The liver injury attributed to anastrozole use is probably due to a toxic or immunoallergic intermediate of its metabolism. Anastrozole is metabolized in the liver by the cytochrome P450 system and is a strong inhibitor of CYP 2A6 and to a lesser extent CYP 2C19. Outcome and Management Liver injury attributed to anastrozole is usually mild and self-limited, typically a transient, asymptomatic elevation in serum enzymes. Cases of severe hepatitis have been reported in women on anastrozole, but acute liver failure has not. There is little evidence for cross sensitivity to liver injury between anastrozole and tamoxifen or even among the various aromatase inhibitors (which have distinctly different chemical structures). References to the safety and hepatotoxicity of anastrozole are given below as well as together with those on exemestane and letrozole after the Overview section on Aromatase Inhibitors. Drug Class: Antineoplastic Agents, Antiestrogens, Aromatase Inhibitors Other Drugs in the Subclass, Aromatase Inhibitors: Exemestane, Letrozole CASE REPORT Case 1. Clinically apparent, acute liver injury due to anastrozole. [Modified from: Zapata E, Zubiaurre L, Bujanda L, Piérola A. Anastrozole-induced hepatotoxicity. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol 2006; 18: 1233-4. PubMed Citation] An 89 year old postmenopausal woman with estrogen receptor positive breast cancer developed malaise, nausea and vomiting 2 months after starting anastrozole. She had
