HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: diagnosis, late, hiv, delayed, mortality, author, manuscript, author manuscript, individuals, late diagnosis, timely, manuscript author, study, timely diagnosis, non-hispanic


Author manuscript J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 01. Published in final edited form as: J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2026 May 01; 101(5): 464–470. doi:. Examining Survival of People Diagnosed with HIV in Florida Between 2015–2021 Following a Late, Delayed, or Timely Diagnosis Christina E. Parisi1, Natalie Chichetto2, Zhigang Li3, Awewura Kwara4, Shantrel S. Canidate2, Colby Cohen5, Robert L. Cook2 Gainesville, FL, US Tallahassee, FL, US Introduction Late HIV diagnosis is a perennial barrier to the ending the HIV Epidemic (EHE) initiative1 There is also a higher risk for other poor outcomes following a late HIV diagnosis, such as a longer time to achieve suppressed viral load,8 worse viral load trajectories,9,10 higher cost of medical care, poor response to treatment, and mortality.3,11–18 Additionally, those with a late HIV diagnosis have been living with untreated HIV for a prolonged period of time, up to years, potentially unknowingly transmitting HIV.2,19 Late diagnosis is defined as meeting AIDS case criteria (CD4<200 cells/μL or AIDS-defining event) at the time of diagnosis or within three months of initial HIV diagnosis according to the Centers for Disease the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) and the World Health Organization (WHO) Regional Office for Europe define late diagnosis as entering HIV care with a CD4 count below 350 cells/μL. 21 It is unclear whether there is clinical significance to these differing late diagnosis criteria; however, evaluating outcomes following a late diagnosis may offer valuable insight into this Declarations Competing interests: The authors report no conflicts of interest or competing interests. Ethics approval: This study was approved by the Florida Department of Health and University of Florida Institutional Review Boards. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript issue. As an example, if those with a CD4 <350 cells/μL at diagnosis experienced morbidity and mortality at a rate similar to those diagnosed at CD4 <200 cells/μL, it could be prudent to broaden the definition of late HIV diagnosis used in the United States to more accurately many areas of the Southern United States,24 experiences a high HIV burden.1,25 Though Florida ranks among the highest states in the number of HIV tests conducted,26 in 2022, 22% of new HIV diagnoses in Florida were late.27 Gaining insight into outcomes following a late HIV diagnosis could help public health officials and clinicians in high-incidence and high-prevalence areas better allocate resources and develop
