HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: diagnosis, late, hiv, delayed, mortality, author, manuscript, author manuscript, individuals, late diagnosis, timely, manuscript author, study, timely diagnosis, non-hispanic


the University of Florida IRB. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Definitions of Late and Delayed HIV Diagnosis Late diagnosis was defined as CD4<200 cells/μL, delayed diagnosis as CD4≥ 200 and <350 cells/μL, and timely diagnosis as CD4≥350 cells/μL. This determination was made using the first laboratory test available in eHARS for each individual. Variables The eHARS dataset included information mandated by the state to be reported from clinical encounters between people with HIV (PWH) and their healthcare providers. This analysis focused on adults; individuals were eligible if they were at least 18 years old at the time of diagnosis. Death data in eHARS were matched weekly by the Florida Department of Health Death against the Bureau of Vital Statistics and matched at least annually against the National Death Index (NDI) and the United States Social Security Death Index (SSDI), with more frequent matching conducted as necessary. Matching with both NDI and SSDI improves completeness and accuracy of death ascertainment, particularly for deaths that occur out of the state. Analysis We examined the absolute number and proportion of all-cause and HIV-associated (i.e., HIV is listed as a cause of death on the death certificate) deaths by timely, delayed, and late diagnosis across the study period. Differences in sociodemographic characteristics (age at diagnosis, sex, race/ethnicity, and year of diagnosis) were determined with chi-square tests for categorical variables and Kruskal-Wallis for the continuous age variable. Unadjusted restricted mean survival was used to assess differences in time before mortality occurred during the study period between the diagnosis groups, with significance tested via Wald chi-square testing. To account for potential confounding, continuous age, race/ethnicity, sex, and year of diagnosis were included in the adjusted Cox proportional hazards models and Kaplan-Meier survival curves for both all-cause and HIV-associated mortality. A significant hazard ratio was one in which the 95% confidence interval (CI) did not include 1.0. R 4.4.0 was used for all analyses.31 Results Sample Characteristics Approximately 23% (n=5,687) of the sample had a late diagnosis, 18% (n=4,333) had a delayed diagnosis, and 59% (n=14,354) had a timely diagnosis. Those who had a late diagnosis had a significantly (p<0.001) older average age compared to those who had a timely diagnosis. Female individuals were overrepresented among those with a late diagnosis (p < 0.001), but not among those with a delayed
