HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: diagnosis, late, hiv, delayed, mortality, author, manuscript, author manuscript, individuals, late diagnosis, timely, manuscript author, study, timely diagnosis, non-hispanic


Research has found a higher prevalence of comorbidities among older PWH compared to older adults without HIV,37,38 which could also contribute to mortality, so interventions to J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript improve outcomes after a late HIV diagnosis could include improving access to treatment for comorbid conditions as well. Increasing HIV testing is one of the best ways to prevent delayed or late diagnosis generally, and to increase testing it is critical that testing accessibility is improved in a variety of settings. The CDC recommends all individuals between that ages of 13–64 receive at least one HIV test during their lifetime as part of their routine care. Providers could offer tests when people are at the primary care or other relevant appointments to avoid missed opportunities for testing.39 Providers could also recommend more frequent testing for populations at higher risk for HIV acquisition. A significant barrier to HIV testing is HIV stigma, which has been shown to impact behavior and outcomes at every stage of the HIV continuum of care and overall healthcare engagement.40–43 Reducing stigma requires educational efforts targeting not only the broader community, but also healthcare providers and patients. Beyond stigma, there may be limited awareness among providers and community members about the elevated risks of poor outcomes associated with delayed or late HIV diagnoses. Increasing education around these risks and the potential benefits of earlier intervention could help inform more effective public health and clinical strategies. This study has several limitations. First, the study period was 83 months (January 2015- December 2021), and most participants were diagnosed after 2015. If the follow-up period was longer, it is likely that more mortality events would have been observed and influenced our findings. Second, we are unable to draw conclusions on the severity of HIV or account for other co-occurring conditions that could have contributed or could have been the primary reason for the individual’s mortality given the data were for surveillance rather than clincal purposes. Third, due to the limitations of working with surveillance data, it is possible that people who died during the study period were not captured in the dataset. To combat this, the FDOH performs a weekly match with the Bureau of Vital Statistics to update the mortality data in eHARS. FDOH also matches eHARS data against NDI and SSDI.
