HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: diagnosis, late, hiv, delayed, mortality, author, manuscript, author manuscript, individuals, late diagnosis, timely, manuscript author, study, timely diagnosis, non-hispanic


combat this, the FDOH performs a weekly match with the Bureau of Vital Statistics to update the mortality data in eHARS. FDOH also matches eHARS data against NDI and SSDI. However, it is possible for some individuals to not have their death correctly captured in the dataset, particularly if the individual moved to another state or country. Fourth, due to the retrospective nature of the data, our findings may not fully reflect current trends or practices and therefore may have limited generalizability to present-day populations. Finally, excluding individuals with fewer than three CD4 measurements may introduce selection bias, as those with incomplete data may differ from those with more complete records. For example, they may have less consistent care or higher mortality risk, which could lead to underestimating mortality associated with delayed or late diagnosis. Conclusion Those with a delayed or late diagnosis HIV in Florida between 2015–2021 had a significantly higher hazard of all-cause and HIV-associated death compared with those who had a timely diagnosis. This highlights that delayed and late diagnoses are significant risk factors for mortality compared to a timely diagnosis, although late diagnosis has a greater risk for future mortality than delayed diagnosis. Individuals who enter the HIV care continuum with a delayed or late diagnosis may benefit from enhanced interventions. Future J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript research and policy efforts should aim to ensure that the unique needs of these populations are adequately addressed to reduce poor outcomes. Acknowledgements: We would like to thank the Florida Department of Health for their support of this project. Funding: This study was funded by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism F31AA030733 and Availability of data and material (data transparency): Data used in this study are available through the Florida Department of Health and can be accessed upon completion of a data use agreement.
