Exercise tolerance testing
KEYWORDS: exercise, test, testing, disease, depression, coronary, segment, heart, patients, coronary artery, artery, artery disease, exercise testing, changes, blood


In stage 1 the patient walks at 1.7 mph (2.7 km) up a 10% incline. Energy expenditure is estimated to be 4.8 METs (metabolic equivalents) during this stage. The speed and incline increase with each stage. A modified Bruce protocol is used for exercise testing within one week of myocardial infarction. Workload Assessment of workload is measured by metabolic equivalents (METs) Workload is a reflection of oxygen consumption and hence energy use 1 MET is 3.5 ml oxygen/kg per minute, which is the oxygen consumption of an average individual at rest To carry out the activities of daily living an exercise intensity of at least 5 METs is required Preparing the patient β Blockers should be discontinued the day before the test, and dixogin (which may cause false positive results, with ST segment abnormalities) should be stopped one week before testing. Maximum predicted heart rate By convention, the maximum predicted heart rate is calculated as 220 (210 for women) minus the patient's age A satisfactory heart rate response is achieved on reaching 85% of the maximum predicted heart rate Attainment of maximum heart rate is a good prognostic sign The patient is first connected to the exercise electrocardiogram machine. Resting electrocardiograms, both sitting and standing, are recorded as electrocardiographic changes, particularly T wave inversion, may occur as the patient stands up to start walking on the treadmill. A short period of electrocardiographic recording during hyperventilation is also valuable for identifying changes resulting from hyperventilation rather than from coronary ischaemia. 3/16 Contraindications for exercise testing Acute myocardial infarction (within 4-6 days) Unstable angina (rest pain in previous 48 hours) Uncontrolled heart failure Acute myocarditis or pericarditis Acute systemic infection Deep vein thrombosis Uncontrolled hypertension (systolic blood pressure >220 mm Hg, diastolic >120 mm Hg) Severe aortic stenosis Severe hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy Untreated life threatening arrhythmia Dissecting aneurysm Recent aortic surgery During the test the electrocardiogram machine provides a continuous record of the heart rate, and the 12 lead electrocardiogram is recorded intermittently. Blood pressure must be measured before the exercise begins and at the end of each exercise stage. Blood pressure may fall or remain static during the initial stage of exercise. This is the result of an anxious patient relaxing. As the test progresses, however, systolic blood pressure should rise as exercise increases. A level of up to 225 mm Hg is normal in adults, although athletes can have higher
