Exercise tolerance testing
KEYWORDS: exercise, test, testing, disease, depression, coronary, segment, heart, patients, coronary artery, artery, artery disease, exercise testing, changes, blood


As the test progresses, however, systolic blood pressure should rise as exercise increases. A level of up to 225 mm Hg is normal in adults, although athletes can have higher levels. Diastolic blood pressure tends to fall slightly. The aim of the exercise is for the patient to achieve their maximum predicted heart rate. Safety If patients are carefully selected for exercise testing, the rate of serious complications (death or acute myocardial infarction) is about 1 in 10 000 tests (0.01%). The incidence of ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation is about 1 in 5000. Full cardiopulmonary resuscitation facilities must be available, and test supervisors must be trained in cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Limitations The specificity of ST segment depression as the main indicator of myocardial ischaemia is limited. ST segment depression has been estimated to occur in up to 20% of normal individuals on ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring. There are many causes of ST segment changes apart from coronary 4/16 artery disease, which confound the result of exercise testing. If the resting electrocardiogram is abnormal, the usefulness of an exercise test is reduced or may even be precluded. Repolarisation and conduction abnormalities—for example, left ventricular hypertrophy, left bundle branch block, pre- excitation, and effects of digoxin—preclude accurate interpretation of the electrocardiogram during exercise, and as a result, other forms of exercise test (for example, adenosine or dobutamine scintigraphy) or angiography are required to evaluate this group of patients. Normal trace during exercise The J point (the point of inflection at the junction of the S wave and ST segment) becomes depressed during exercise, with maximum depression at peak exercise. The normal ST segment during exercise therefore slopes sharply upwards. By convention, ST segment depression is measured relative to the isoelectric baseline (between the T and P waves) at a point 60-80 ms after the J point. There is intraobserver variation in the measurement of this ST segment depression, and therefore a computerised analysis that accompanies the exercise test can assist but not replace the clinical evaluation of the test. Normal electrocardiographic changes during exercise P wave increases in height R wave decreases in height J point becomes depressed ST segment becomes sharply upsloping Q-T interval shortens T wave decreases in height Abnormal changes during exercise The standard criterion for an abnormal ST segment response is horizontal (planar) or downsloping depression of >1 mm. If 0.5 mm of depression is taken as the standard, the
