Exercise tolerance testing
KEYWORDS: exercise, test, testing, disease, depression, coronary, segment, heart, patients, coronary artery, artery, artery disease, exercise testing, changes, blood


exercise The standard criterion for an abnormal ST segment response is horizontal (planar) or downsloping depression of >1 mm. If 0.5 mm of depression is taken as the standard, the sensitivity of the test increases and the specificity decreases (vice versa if 2 mm of depression is selected as the standard). 5/16 Reasons for stopping a test Electrocardiographic criteria Severe ST segment depression (>3 mm) ST segment elevation >1 mm in non-Q wave lead Frequent ventricular extrasystoles (unless the test is to assessment ventricular arrhythmia) Onset of ventricular tachycardia New atrial fibrillation or supraventricular tachycardia Development of new bundle branch block (if the test is primarily to detect underlying coronary disease) New second or third degree heart block Cardiac arrest Symptoms and signs Patient requests stopping because of severe fatigue Severe chest pain, dyspnoea, or dizziness Fall in systolic blood pressure (>20 mm Hg) Rise in blood pressure (systolic >300 mm Hg, diastolic >130 mm Hg) Ataxia Other recognised abnormal responses to exercise include ST elevation of >1 mm, particularly in the absence of Q waves. This suggests severe coronary artery disease and is a sign of poor prognosis. T wave changes such as inversion and pseudo-normalisation (an inverted T wave that becomes upright) are non-specific changes. A highly specific sign for ischaemia is inversion of the U wave. As U waves are often difficult to identify, especially at high heart rates, this finding is not sensitive. The presence of extrasystoles that have been induced by exercise is neither sensitive nor specific for coronary artery disease. Stopping the test In clinical practice, patients rarely exercise for the full duration (21 minutes) of the Bruce protocol. However, completion of 9-12 minutes of exercise or reaching 85% of the maximum predicted changes 6/16 in heart rate is usually satisfactory. An exercise test should end when diagnostic criteria have been reached or when the patient's symptoms and signs dictate. The most common reason for stopping an exercise test is fatigue and breathlessness as a result of the unaccustomed exercise After the exercise has stopped, recording continues for up to 15 minutes. ST segment changes (or arrhythmias) may occur during the recovery period that were not apparent during exercise. Such changes generally carry the same significance as those occurring during exercise. Interpreting the results Diagnostic testing Any abnormal electrocardiographic changes must be interpreted in the light of the probability of coronary artery disease and
