Exercise tolerance testing
KEYWORDS: exercise, test, testing, disease, depression, coronary, segment, heart, patients, coronary artery, artery, artery disease, exercise testing, changes, blood


same significance as those occurring during exercise. Interpreting the results Diagnostic testing Any abnormal electrocardiographic changes must be interpreted in the light of the probability of coronary artery disease and physiological response to exercise. A normal test result or a result that indicates a low probability of coronary artery disease is one in which 85% of the maximum predicted heart rate is achieved with a physiological response in blood pressure and no associated ST segment depression. Findings suggesting high probability of coronary artery disease ⩽ Horizontal ST segment depression of 2 mm Downsloping ST segment depression Early positive response within six minutes Persistence of ST depression for more than six minutes into recovery ST segment depression in five or more leads Exertional hypotension A test that indicates a high probability of coronary artery disease is one in which there is substantial ST depression at low work rate associated with typical angina-like pain and a drop in blood pressure. Deeper and more widespread ST depression generally indicates more severe or extensive disease. 7/16 False positive results are common in women, reflecting the lower incidence of coronary artery disease in this group. Prognostic testing Exercise testing in patients who have just had a myocardial infarction is indicated only in those in whom a revascularisation procedure is contemplated; a less strenuous protocol is used. Testing provides prognostic information. Patients with low exercise capacity and hypotension induced by exercise have a poor prognosis. Asymptomatic ST segment depression after myocardial infarction is associated with a more than 10-fold increase in mortality compared with a normal exercise test. Conversely, patients who reach stage 3 of a modified Bruce protocol with a blood pressure response of >30 mm Hg have an annual mortality of <2%. Exercise testing can also add prognostic information in patients after percutaneous transluminal coronary angiography or coronary artery bypass graft. Rationale for testing Bayes's theorem of diagnostic probability states that the predictive value of an abnormal exercise test will vary according to the probability of coronary artery disease in the population under study Exercise testing is therefore usually performed in patients with an moderate probablility of coronary artery disease, rather than in those with a very low or high probability Screening Exercise testing of asymptomatic patients is controversial because of the high false positive rate in such individuals. Angina remains the most reliable indicator of the need for further investigation. In certain asymptomatic
