J. Anat. (1966), 100, 4, pp. 899-903 899
KEYWORDS: gland, rectal, rectal gland, body, ofthe, fig, length, growth, weight, acanthias, intestine, organ, epithelium, embryo, pattern


J. Anat. (1966), 100, 4, pp. 899-903 899 With 6figures Printedin GreatBritain The embryology of the rectal gland of the spiny dogfish Squalus acanthias L. By D. K. 0. CHAN* AND J. G. PHILLIPS INTRODUCTION The rectal (caecal or digitiform) gland of elasmobranchs has been noted and de- scribed by many of the early comparative anatomists (for review ofthe literature, see Crofts, 1925). Interest inthis glandwasrevived by the demonstration ofits salt- secreting capacity (Burger & Hess, 1960; Burger, 1962). The development of the gland was first describedforAcanthiasvulgaris. Comparatively latein ontogeny, an anlage is formed on the left dorsal wall of the posterior intestine and the organ is fully differentiated before parturition (Blanchard, 1878). Blanchard claimed that the glandular portion ofthe organ was of mesodermal origin, and briefly described its histology. Sanfelice (1888), workingon embryos ofPristiuris sp. and Torpedo sp., clearly showed that the secretary tubules of the gland were of endodermal origin, being formed by repeated evaginations of the intestinal-wall epithelium. He con- firmed Blanchard's workthatthe gland was fully differentiated beforebirth. Later, Hoskins (1917) described in detail the tubular differentiation in the rectal gland of Squalus acanthias. Crofts (1925) extended this work and included a description of the gland inScyliorhinus sp. Unfortunately, theworkofthese authorswasbased on small numbers offish and their geometric and gravimetric datawereinadequate for precise analysis. In a recent study ofthe form and function ofthe rectal gland, the opportunity arose to re-examine this problem and the present investigation was carried out in orderto furnish information on the development of this unique organ based on a more complete series ofelasmobranch embryos. MATERIAL AND METHODS Pregnant female spiny dogfish, Squalus acanthias L., were caught in the South China Sea and kept cool in holding tanks. On reachingthe laboratory several hours later the pups were taken from the uterus by dissection and appeared to be in a healthy condition. They were stripped oftheir yolk sac, and a cut was made at the side ofthe abdomen to allow the penetration ofthe Bouin fixative. The length and weight of the body and rectal gland were obtained after fixation. Serial sections stained in Ehrlich's haemotoxylin and eosin were obtained from each gland. Al- together eighty embryos, ranging in size from 20 mm to 170 mm were examined. Assumingthat thegrowth of an organ follows apowerfunction of the growth of the body, the following equation has been suggested for the expression ofthe rela- tionship between the size
