J. Anat. (1966), 100, 4, pp. 899-903 899
KEYWORDS: gland, rectal, rectal gland, body, ofthe, fig, length, growth, weight, acanthias, intestine, organ, epithelium, embryo, pattern


were examined. Assumingthat thegrowth of an organ follows apowerfunction of the growth of the body, the following equation has been suggested for the expression ofthe rela- tionship between the size of the organ and the size ofthe body (Brody, 1945): y = a.xk or log y = log a+k.log x, 57 Anat. 100 900 D. K. 0. CHAN AND J. G. PHILLIPS Embryology of rectal gland of spiny dogfish 901 wherey = weight orlength oforgan, x = weightorlengthofbody, a = coefficient ofthe power function, k = correlation constant or power ofx. In the log-logplot, kbecomes theslope ofthecurve anddenotes therateofgrowthoftheorganrelative to the body. RESULTS Itwas foundthatin the smallest specimen available therectal glandwas already formed as an anlage dorsal to the intestine and displaced to the left side. At this stage, the gland was a simple hollow tube, the central lumen being lined by a two- layered stratified epithelium which resembled transitional epithelium and was obviously derived from the epithelium of the posterior intestine. Folding of this epithelium had already begun (Fig. 1). Inthe26 mmembryotheepithelialfoldinghadintensified(Fig.2)andinthe30 mm embryosecretarytubuleswereapparentforthefirsttime(Fig.3).Beforetheembryo reached 50 mm secondary and tertiary branching of the secretary tubules had occurred (Fig. 4). At the 100 mm stage the adult structure ofa peripheral capsule, aglandularparenchyma andacentral collecting ductoftransitional epitheliumwas apparent (Fig. 5). Little growth in diameter ofthe rectal gland was observed from 100to 170mm. Growth oftherectalglandduringthefinalgestational period, up to 250-300 mm (Ford, 1921), was not observed owing to the lack ofmaterial. When the rectal gland weight and length were plotted against the body weight andlengthrespectivelyonalog-logscale(Fig. 6, graphsA and B), two intersecting straightlineswereobtained.Thepointofinflexionintheslopeinbothgraphsoccurred atthe time when the embryos reached 110-120 mm in length. From graph A the correlation constant (k) for rectal gland weight and body weight is calculated to be 1 00 intheinitialperiod, indicatingaproportional rate ofweightincreaseforthe rectal gland and the body, changing to k' = 1-50 when the embryo reached 110- 120 mm denoting an accelerated growth for the rectal gland relative to the body. Similarly, from graph B the correlation constant for rectal gland length and body length is found to change from k = 0-230 in the initial period tok' = 0 400 after 110-120mm body length is reached. When thebody lengthis plotted against bodyweight as in graph C it can be seen that the body increases in length and weight at a constant relative rate throughout Figs. 1-5 Abbreviations: g, rectal gland; i, intestine; k, kidney; m, myotome; sp, spiral
