J. Anat. (1966), 100, 4, pp. 899-903 899
KEYWORDS: gland, rectal, rectal gland, body, ofthe, fig, length, growth, weight, acanthias, intestine, organ, epithelium, embryo, pattern


ofglandular function follow- ingbirth. Itmay, ontheotherhand, indicateaninuterocommencement offunction since the acceleration of growth and completion of structural differentiation co- incides with the stage (110-120mm) when the ability to digest yolk has spread posteriorly to include the whole intestine (TeWinkel, 1943). Eitherorboth ofthese possibilities may account for the pattern of growth of the rectal gland. Recent Embryology of rectal gland of spiny dogfish 903 studies (Chan & Phillips, unpublished observations) suggest that in the adult shark the influx ofNa+ through the gills is met by the excretion via the kidneys and the rectal gland. A similar situation may be met in the embryo in late gestation, since the fluid contents ofthe uteri mix with seawater during that period (A. D. Wood- head, personal communication). A further problem may arise from the ingestion of excess electrolytes with the yolk. Whether the rectal gland is functional as an organ of electrolyte excretion in the embryo poses a problem which still awaits futher experimentation. SUMMARY An investigation on the embryology of the rectal gland of the spiny dogfish, Squalus acanthias has been carried out using geometric, gravimetric and histo- logical examination of eighty embryos ranging in size from 20 to 170 mm. The rectal gland was already recognizable in the smallest foetus examined. The pattern of development of the rectal gland is correlated with concomitant histo- logical changes and the significance ofthese changes has been discussed in the light of possible physiological requirements of the foetuses. This work formed part of a thesis presented to the University ofHong Kong for the degree of Master of Science by D.K.0.C., and was supported by a grant to D.K.O.C. fromtheUniversityofHong Kong (no. 317/18/8) and to J.G.P. from the Nuffield Foundation. WearegratefultoMIrJ. D. BromhalloftheFisheries Research Station, Aberdeen, Hong Kong, for the supply of fish and for laboratory facilities.
