Grodzinskyetal.InternationalJournalofHealthGeographics2012,11:5 INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL
KEYWORDS: social, study, men, city, diagnoses, women, gastrointestinal, white-collar, cities, icd-, frequent, care, data, differences, disease


the one hand and psychiatric disorders and FGD on plaintsinpatientsseekingadviceintheprimarycare.Any- the other hand . how, we believe that the differences seen between the However,certainGIdiagnoseslikealcohol-relatedliver population in the two cities is related to differences in diseasesandgall-tractdisordersweremoreprevalentinthe healthbehaviors, educational levels, psychosocial factors, “blue-collar”city.Thismaysuggestalesshealthylifestyle nutritionalhabits,lifestylesingeneralandspecificallyalco- inits populationleadingtotheseproblems. Thisis sup- holconsumptionandsmokingbehaviors. portedbyourpreviousobservationsshowingthatdiagnoses ItiswellknownthatFGDdiseasessuchasIBSandFD predominantlyrelatedtolife-styleproblemslikecoronary and FGD-UNS are more common among women than heartdiseasesandchronicobstructivepulmonarydisease men,butsurprisingly,IBSandFGD-UNSweremorefre- weremorecommoninthestudiedblue-collarcity. quent among the youngest group of men (data not Grodzinskyetal.InternationalJournalofHealthGeographics2012,11:5 Page7of10 shown). The explanations of this gender phenomenon factors, PUD is often decreasing with age, although a mustbehypothetic and candiffer.Itmightberandomly peak often occur at retirement . However, these due to an unknown factor or due to the fact that more factorscannotexplaindifferencesinoccurrencebetween womensufferfromIBS[24-26]andthereforeseekhealth sexes. One hypothesis might be that men to a larger caremore oftenwhentheirchildren having the sameGI extentaremorestressedandthisinducestheHPbacteria complaints. Our recent study showed that a family his- toactandinducePUD,ormenmighttoagreaterextent toryofIBSwasrelatedtoanIBSdiagnosisforbothsexes with increasing age suffer from complaints like arthritis .Onehypothesismightbethatyoungmen aremore and musculoskeletal problems that require higher con- vulnerable to psychosocial stressful conditions in every- sumptionofNSAIDandacetylsalicylicacid(ASA). day life than young women, or quite simply, they have This study also showed that gastric and rectal cancers beeneatingtoomuch,toolittle orare allergic tocertain occurred more frequently among men of all ages com- kindsoffood, whichmightexplain thehigherfrequency paredtowomen.Colonandsmallintestinalcancerswere ofFGD-UNSamongboys.The prevalence ofGERDwas more equally distributed among both sexes, although fairly equal between men and women. Alcohol-related coloncancerwasslightlymorefrequentamongmen,but liver disease was more frequent among men, since men not significantly so. Colorectal cancer is the third most in general consume more alcohol than women. Coeliac common form of cancer in Sweden . On the other diagnoses were significantly more frequent among hand, it is also the third leading cause of death in the women compared to men and most frequent among USA.Studiessuggestthattheremightbesex differ- youngerpopulations.Specially,adultwomenwithcoeliac encesin screeningfor colorectal cancers, i.e. that physi- diseasecontinuetoseekhealthcareforothercomplaints, cians may refer men more frequently for screening than withoutmentioningtheirpreviouscoeliacdiagnose. women . Women might report greater fear, anxiety, The total number of gall diseases was significantly and embarrassment about screening procedures, which more frequent among women compared to men except could affect the behaviour concerning this kind of in the oldest age group. The causes of gallstone forma- screening[47-49].Thesefactorsmightexplainsexdiffer- tion are multifactorial, although some risk factors are ences,buttowhatextent?Screeningforcolorectalcancer permanent, such as being women, increasing age and isrecommendedintheUSAaswellasinsomecountries ethnicity and previous family history of the disease. in Europe, although not in Sweden so far [50-52]. How- Other recognized risk factors are a high caloric intake ever, the etiology of
