v1
KEYWORDS: tests, syphilis, rapid, countries, diagnostics, stis, screening, developing, rapid tests, women, test, control, available, services, diagnostic


www.stijournal.com RapidtestsforSTIs v3 Table4 Barrierstoeffectivesyphilisscreeningusingrapid Table5 ScorecardforcurrentrapidSTItests plasmareagin(RPR)tests Testcharacteristics NG/CT Syphilis Healthseeker Healthprovider Affordable US$6–15 US$0.19–3.0 Distancetoclinic Procurement—limitedquantitiesbecauseof Sensitive 43–65% 85–99% needforrefrigeration Specific 98% 93–100% Failuretoreturnfortest Limitedfacilitiesforcoldchaintransportand User-friendly 7–14steps 3–4steps resultsandtreatment storage Rapid/robust 30’/storageat8–30˚C 20’/storageat8–30˚C Clinicconstraints: Equipment-free Yes Yes NFewtrainedpersonnel Deliverable ? Negotiatedpricingthrough NFacilitiesinadequate,eg, theWHOBulkProcurement –refrigerator,centrifugeandrotatormaynot Scheme beavailable –poorlighting CT,Chlamydiatrachomatis;NG,Neisseriagonorrheoea. Organisationofservices—drugsand diagnosticsstock-outs 1. Continued search for ASSURED tests TheASSUREDscorecardbasedonselectSTItestsevaluatedin thissupplementisshownintable5.21–2431–33 Mathematical models developed at the Tanzania site for sufficient infrastructure todetermine the quality of diagnostic prenatal syphilis screening showed that screening with rapid tests. A CE mark on a product only addresses manufacturing tests is cost-effective if the price per test does not exceed qualityanddoesnotimplyacceptabletestperformance.WHO/ US$0.63.25Currentlyeightrapidsyphilistestsevaluatedbythe TDR conducted a global survey of diagnostics regulatory SDI are included in the WHO Bulk Procurement Scheme at practices in 2001. A questionnaire sent to 191 WHO member negotiated pricing ranging from US$0.19–1.00. Improved tests states inquired about regulation of in vitro diagnostics (other forsyphilisthatcandistinguishbetweenactiveandpasttreated required for regulatory approval.34 Of the 85 countries that and Prevention has been assisting test developers and responded, 48% regulate in vitro diagnostics for infectious manufacturers to develop rapid tests that will combine non- diseases. Of the 24 countries that provided data on which treponemal and treponemal test on a solid phase, in either a diagnostics were regulated, 83% regulate diagnostics for HIV, flow-through or immunochromatographic strip format. These 92% for hepatitis, 42% for STIs and 13% each for tuberculosis prototypeswillsoonbereadyforevaluation. andmalaria. Clearly there is a need for more sensitive, simpler and Of the countries that regulate diagnostics, 68% require the cheaperrapidtestsforCtrachomatisandNgonorrhoeae.3637Giftet for diagnostic evaluation or approval in developing countries. lead to a greater proportion of infected patients treated An industry survey conducted by WHO/TDR in 2003 showed compared to a nucleic acid amplified test with a sensitivity of thatcompanyspendingonevaluationofaproductvariedfrom 90%, when the return rate for test results and treatment is US$2000 to more than $1 million. Diagnostic trials had been low.38MathematicalmodelsdevelopedusingdatafromtheSDI conductedinasfewas15patients(unpublishedTDRdata).A site in Benin showed that rapid tests with sensitivity of 70% recentdossierreceivedattheWHOSDIonasyphilisrapidtest and specificity of 98% have the potential to reduce the containedaclaimof100%sensitivityand100%specificity.The prevalenceoftheseinfectionsinsexworkersandthepotential evaluation was conducted in just over 100 patients, of whom toavertHIVinfectionsintheirclients.39Encouragingdataonan onlythreewerepositiveforsyphilis! improved rapid test for ocular chlamydial infection have Physicians often select tests based on information provided recentlybeenpublished,40andanumberoftestsforgonorrhoea in the product insert or from published data. Information on awaitevaluationbySDI. the performance of tests sold in developing countries is often biased because of flaws in the design and conduct of 2. Piloting
