v1
KEYWORDS: tests, syphilis, rapid, countries, diagnostics, stis, screening, developing, rapid tests, women, test, control, available, services, diagnostic


the counter’’. Few Procurementand UNmemberstatescanprocurethroughtheWHOor countries regulate STI tests sold through these venues. STI logistics similarUNBulkProcurementSchemes.Develop control programmes need to exploit the popularity of the logisticsforimportationanddistributionincountry,in internet to provide scientific information to health care concertwiththedistributionofmedicinestoavoidstock- outsofeithercommodityatdistrictlevelandremote professionals and the lay public on how STIs should be settings diagnosed and treated, and make the public aware of the Trainingand Developoradapttrainingmodulesanddevelopa consequencesofmisdiagnosis. supervision systemfortrainingthetrainersatdifferentlevelsof healthcaresystem Qualityassurance Developaqualityassuranceschemeforensuring 6. Ensuring a sustained effort at disease control validityoftestsinremotesettings,andproficiencyof programmes healthworkersatperformingrapidtests The availability of new tools that can be used to increase Monitoringand Developplansformonitoringandevaluatingthe evaluation effectivenessandimpactofrapidtestintroduction coverageforprenatalscreeninghassparkedinterestinplanning Surveillance Monitordiseasetrendstoassessbenefitattributableto for the global elimination of congenital syphilis. While testintroduction ‘‘eradication’’ or ‘‘elimination’’ are laudable goals, eradication Communications Developanddisseminateinformationonrapidteststo hasbeenachievedforsmallpox,andisbeingpursuedforriver campaign stakeholdersandtargetpopulations Partnerships Developpartnerships(donors,publicandprivate blindness and polio, with local success in some regions. sector,NGOs,civilsocieties)fortestintroductionand Anothertreponematosis,yaws,hasbeeneliminatedfromsome coordinateefforttoensuresynergyandminimise regions, but not globally. Elimination of syphilis is being duplication pursuedintheUSA,andhasbeenachievedtransientlyinsome Academic Organiseworkshopsforprofessionalsocietiesand areas of the world, such as China and King County, sensitisation introducenewdiagnosticsintocontinuingmedical educationandmedicalcurriculum Washington, USA. However, it returned with a vengeance as sexual behaviours and patterns of sexual mixing changed.4647 NGOs,non-governmentalorganisations;SDI,SexuallyTransmitted Syphilis outbreaks elsewhere in the USA, eastern Europe and DiseasesDiagnosticsInitiative;UN,UnitedNations;WHO,WorldHealth the Russian Federation are also testament to the resilience of Organization. the pathogen.4849 In general, the concept of elimination of syphilis, given available tools, is unrealistic and diverts longer be performed by trained laboratory technicians. It is attention for the need for continuous and sustained control therefore critical that countries set up external quality programmes. The addition of ASSURED rapid diagnostics for assurance (EQA) schemes to ensure that the quality of the syphilis, as one component of a sustained effort, can improve testshasnotbeencompromisedduringstorageandthathealth the potential for better control of adverse consequences of workers are proficient at performing the tests. These national syphilisgloballyregardlessofongoingendemicdisease. schemes can be developed in conjunction with quality assurance schemes for other diagnostic testing and should be 7. Defining the role of rapid diagnostics for viral STIs supported technically by a network of expert laboratories, Recent studieshaveidentifiedherpessimplexvirus2 (HSV-2) inside and outside of the country. This requires the develop- as a major risk factor for the acquisition and transmission of mentofabusinessplanforobtainingsufficientfundstocover HIV.50 A vaccine for human papilloma virus (HPV) has been setupcostsandidentifymeansofsustainingtheprogramme. showntobeeffectiveinpreventingtheinfectionbythemajor oncogenic types.51 Although the role of diagnostics in the 4. Taking advantage of available programme control of many viral STIs remains unclear, more strategic infrastructure and resources planning needs to be given to the role of diagnostics in the Capacityforintroductionofnewtoolsvariessignificantlybetween controlandpreventionofHSV. countries,andbetween rural
