Chapter
KEYWORDS: diarrhea, dna, children, diarrheal, countries, vaccine, breastfeeding, mortality, interventions, water, disease, cholera, developing, year, rotavirus


than 2,500 least 48 hours of normal stools.These definitions enable epi- individual Salmonellacause the majority ofhuman infections, demiologists to count incidence,relapses,and new infections. reflecting the requirement for genes that encode essential virulence factors. The ability to identify virulence genes and their products TRANSMISSION has led to new molecular approaches to epidemiology and diagnosis,and undoubtedly will lead to new measures to pre- Diarrhea is caused by infectious organisms,including viruses, vent and treat diarrhea. Molecular methods also allow the bacteria, protozoa, and helminths, that are transmitted from separation of organisms that otherwise appear to be identical. the stool of one individual to the mouth of another, termed Nonpathogenic Escherichia coli in normal stool cannot be separated from diarrhea-causing E.coli by standard methods; quantity that quickly exceeds total plasma and interstitial fluid however, identification of virulence genes or factors distin- volumes and is incompatible with life unless fluid therapy can guishes five groups of E.colithat cause illnesses ranging from keep up with losses.Such dramatic dehydration is usually due cholera-like watery diarrhea to neonatal diarrhea, persistent to rotavirus,enterotoxigenic E.coli,or V.cholerae (the cause of diarrhea,and bloody diarrhea (Nataro and Kaper 1998). cholera),and it is most dangerous in the very young. Persistent diarrhea is typically associated with malnutrition, either preceding or resulting from the illness itself (Ochoa, LABORATORY DIAGNOSIS Salazar-Lindo,and Cleary 2004).Even though persistent diar- rhea accounts for a small percentage of the total number of interventions and case management. Microbiological culture increased risk ofdeath.In India,persistent diarrhea accounted and microscopy remain the standard,despite their limited sen- for 5 percent ofepisodes but 14 percent ofdeaths,and a mor- sitivity.Their effectiveness is further reduced by antibiotic use, tality rate three times higher than briefer episodes (Bhan and and patients with severe illness are more likely both to be cul- others 1989).In Pakistan,persistent diarrhea accounted for 8 to tured and to have taken antibiotics. Even when cultures are 18 percent ofepisodes but 54 percent ofdeaths (Khan and oth- positive,the delay in laboratory identification limits their cost- ers 1993). In Bangladesh, persistent diarrhea associated with effectiveness for managing individual patients. The informa- malnutrition was responsible for nearly halfofdiarrhea deaths, tion is always epidemiologically and clinically important;how- and the relative risk for death among infants with persistent ever,during epidemics,culturing every patient is unnecessary diarrhea and severe malnutrition was 17 times greater than for when the causative organism is known. Antimicrobial resist- those with mild malnutrition (Fauveau and others 1992). ance data are
