Chapter
KEYWORDS: diarrhea, dna, children, diarrheal, countries, vaccine, breastfeeding, mortality, interventions, water, disease, cholera, developing, year, rotavirus


unnecessary diarrhea and severe malnutrition was 17 times greater than for when the causative organism is known. Antimicrobial resist- those with mild malnutrition (Fauveau and others 1992). ance data are essential to guide initial antibiotic choices. Persistent diarrhea occurs more often during an episode of New rapid tests to detect inflammatory mediators or white bloody diarrhea than an episode of watery diarrhea, and the or red blood cells in stool offer the promise of distinguishing mortality rate when bloody diarrhea progresses to persistent between secretory and inflammatory disease and optimizing diarrhea is 10 times greater than for bloody diarrhea without case management (Huicho and others 1996).High background persistent diarrhea.HIV infection is another risk factor for per- levels,probably from frequent infections,limits the use ofsuch sistent diarrhea in both adults and children (Keusch and others tests in developing countries,where they would be most useful 1992). Management focuses on overcoming the nutritional (Gill and others 2003). alterations initiated by persistent diarrhea. Simple microscopy for protozoa or helminths can be quick Bloodydiarrhea,definedasdiarrheawithvisibleormicro- and effective when the proper sample is obtained and a well- scopicbloodinthestool,isassociatedwithintestinaldamage trained technician is available to examine a fresh specimen,but andnutritionaldeterioration,oftenwithsecondarysepsis.Some these prerequisites are often not available in developing coun- dehydration—rarelysevere—iscommon,asisfever.Clinicians tries. Newer immunological and nucleic acid–based tests to oftenusethetermbloodydiarrheainterchangeablywithdysen- detect pathogen-specific factors hold great promise for all diar- tery;however,dysenteryisasyndromeconsistingofthefrequent rhea agents,but they are too expensive or require specialized passageofcharacteristic,small-volume,bloodymucoidstools; instrumentation and trained technicians. For the foreseeable abdominalcramps;andtenesmus,aseverepainthataccompa- future,then,syndromic diagnosis will be the norm. niesstrainingtopassstool.Thosefeaturesshowtheseverityof theinflammation.Agentsthatcausebloodydiarrheaordysen- tery can also provoke a form of diarrhea that clinically is not SYNDROMIC DIAGNOSIS bloodydiarrhea,althoughmucosaldamageandinflammation are present,and fecal blood and white blood cells are usually Three major diarrhea syndromes exist.They are acute watery detectablebymicroscopy.Thereleaseofhost-derivedcytokines diarrhea,which results in varying degrees ofdehydration;per- causesfever,alteringhostmetabolismandleadingtothebreak- sistent diarrhea, which lasts 14 days or longer, manifested by downof bodystoresof protein,carbohydrate,andfatandthe malabsorption,nutrient losses,and wasting;and bloody diar- loss of nitrogen and other nutrients. Those losses must be rhea,which is a sign ofthe intestinal damage caused by inflam- replenished during convalescence, which takes much longer mation.The three are physiologically different and require spe- thantheillnessdoestodevelop.Forthesereasons,bloodydiar- cific management. Syndromic diagnosis provides important rheacallsformanagementstrategiesthataremarkedlydifferent clues to optimal management and is both programmatically thanthoseforwateryorpersistentdiarrhea.Newboutsofinfec- and epidemiologically relevant. tion that occur before complete restoration of nutrient stores Acute watery diarrhea can be rapidly dehydrating, with caninitiateadownwardspiralofnutritionalstatusterminating stool losses of 250 milliliters per kilogram per day or more,a infatalprotein-energymalnutrition(Keusch2003). 372 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Gerald T.
