Chapter
KEYWORDS: diarrhea, dna, children, diarrheal, countries, vaccine, breastfeeding, mortality, interventions, water, disease, cholera, developing, year, rotavirus


under age 6 months safe replacement feeding is difficult.For women who are HIV- are 6.1 times less likely to die ofdiarrhea than infants who are negative or whose status is unknown,WHO currently recom- not breastfed (WHO Collaborative Study Team 2000). mends exclusive breastfeeding for at least six months (WHO Exclusive breastfeeding protects very young infants from diar- 2000).The best option for HIV-positive women is acceptable, rheal disease in two ways: first, breast milk contains both affordable, sustainable, and safe replacement feeding. If this immune (specific) and nonimmune (nonspecific) antimicro- option is not possible, there are four alternatives: (a) heat- bial factors; second, exclusive breastfeeding eliminates the treated breast milk,(b) HIV-negative wet nurses,(c) unconta- intake of potentially contaminated food and water. Breast minated donor milk, or (d) exclusive breastfeeding for six milk also provides all the nutrients most infants need up to months and rapid discontinuation thereafter . age 6 months.When exclusive breastfeeding is continued dur- A danger of promoting replacement feeding is that unin- ing diarrhea,it also diminishes the adverse impact on nutri- fected women or women with unknown HIV status will adopt tional status. the practice. Even in high-prevalence communities, the best Diarrheal Diseases | 375 of their children appears to be exclusive breastfeeding for six large-scale complementary feeding interventions in 14 coun- months. In Coutsoudis and others’ (1999) cohort study in tries.They demonstrate that it is possible to provide nutrition- South Africa,the risk ofmother-to-infant transmission ofHIV ally improved complementary foods in diverse cultural settings after three months ofexclusive breastfeeding was similar to that and that poor mothers are willing to prepare new foods their with no breastfeeding and significantly lower than that with children will eat. However, caregivers face considerable time mixed feeding.Providing antiretroviral therapy to the mother and resource constraints in providing such foods, especially should significantly extend the period ofsafe breastfeeding for during episodes of illness.A pilot study in Brazil that imple- the initially HIV-negative infants ofHIV-positive mothers. mented nutritional counseling through the Integrated Management of Childhood Illness Program reported signifi- cant weight gain in children age one year or more,but not in Improved Complementary Feeding Practices younger children (Santos and others 2001). 6 months, and breastfeeding should continue for up to two micronutrient requirements.Although improvements in vita- years or even longer to increase birth intervals . min A status do not significantly reduce the incidence ofdiar- There is a strong inverse association between appropriate,safe rhea
