Chapter
KEYWORDS: diarrhea, dna, children, diarrheal, countries, vaccine, breastfeeding, mortality, interventions, water, disease, cholera, developing, year, rotavirus


in vita- years or even longer to increase birth intervals . min A status do not significantly reduce the incidence ofdiar- There is a strong inverse association between appropriate,safe rhea and other common childhood illnesses,vitamin A supple- complementary feeding and mortality in children age 6 to 11 mentation can reduce the frequency ofsevere diarrhea (Barreto months.Malnutrition is an independent risk predictor for the and others 1994) and mortality (Ross and others 1995). frequency and severity of diarrheal illness. There is a vicious Chapter 28 describes interventions to promote vitamin A cycle in which sequential diarrheal disease leads to increasing intake. Zinc supplementation also reduces the incidence of nutritional deterioration, impaired immune function, and diarrhea. greater susceptibility to infection.The cycle may be broken by interventions to decrease infection incidence to reduce malnu- Rotavirus Immunization trition(KeuschandScrimshaw1986)orimprovingnutritional status to reduce the burden of infection (Victora and others Almost all infants acquire rotavirus diarrhea early in life,and 1999). rotavirus accounts for at least one-third of severe and poten- Improved feeding practices to prevent or treat malnutrition tially fatal watery diarrhea episodes—primarily in developing could save as many as 800,000 lives per year (Jones and others countries, where an estimated 440,000 vaccine-preventable 2003). Pediatricians have long been aware of an increase in rotavirus deaths per year occur (Parashar and others 2003), diarrhea incidence during weaning from exclusive breast milk compared with about a dozen in a developed country such as feeding. Microbial contamination of complementary foods France (Fourquet and others 2003).An effective rotavirus vac- (Mondal and others 1996) and nutritionally inadequate diets cine would have a major effect on diarrhea mortality in devel- during and after diarrhea episodes (Badruddin and others oping countries. 1991) increase the risk. Contamination of complementary In 1998, a quadrivalent Rhesus rotavirus–derived vaccine foods can potentially be reduced by educating caregivers on that reduced the frequency ofseverely dehydrating rotavirus— hygienic practices (Guptill and others 1993),improving home but not the overall incidence of rotavirus infections—was food storage (English and others 1997),fermenting foods to licensed in the United States (Glass and others 1999). It was reduce pathogen multiplication (Kimmons and others 1999), cost-effective,even at US$100 for a full course of immuniza- onize the gut and help resist pathogens (Allen and others expenses and indirect costs of lost productivity and wages for 2004).These interventions have not been evaluated at scale in the caretakers were considered (Tucker and others 1998).The communities,and effectiveness trials are lacking.
