Chapter
KEYWORDS: diarrhea, dna, children, diarrheal, countries, vaccine, breastfeeding, mortality, interventions, water, disease, cholera, developing, year, rotavirus


indirect costs of lost productivity and wages for 2004).These interventions have not been evaluated at scale in the caretakers were considered (Tucker and others 1998).The communities,and effectiveness trials are lacking. strategy was clear: use the high-priced vaccine routinely in We could not find any reports on the effects ofcomplemen- industrial countries to subsidize its use in developing countries. tary feeding interventions on mortality. Five efficacy trials to However, postmarketing surveillance detected an apparent improve the intake of complementary foods noted a net increase in a relatively rare event,intussusception,a condition increase in energy intake of between 65 and 300 kilocalories a in which the intestine telescopes on itself,causing a potentially day and improvements of 0.25 to 0.46 standard deviations in serious obstruction . The relationship was weight-for-age and 0.04 to 0.35 standard deviations in height- strongest with the first dose of vaccine given with the first or for-age (Caulfield, Huffman, and Piwoz 1999). By extrapola- second dose ofdiphtheria-pertussis-tetanus vaccine (Peter and tion,this increment in growth should translate into a 2 to 13 others 2002),although this was counterbalanced by a decrease percent reduction in deaths associated with malnutrition in the incidence of intussusception in older children (Murphy (Black and others 1995). and others 2003). 376 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Gerald T. Keusch, Olivier Fontaine, Alok Bhargava, and others The overall reduced incidence in immunized infants com- outbreak in Micronesia suggested that a single dose was useful pared with nonimmunized infants in these studies suggested in limiting the spread ofcholera (Calain and others 2004).But that the vaccine may actually protect against later adverse because ORT is so inexpensive and useful in preventing death, events.Nonetheless,the ensuing controversy led to a reversal of immunization is not a high priority. Only Vietnam routinely the recommendation for universal immunization in the United deploys cholera vaccine. States and withdrawal ofthe vaccine from the market,preclud- Operational information on the costs, logistics, and avail- ing the possibility of its deployment in developing countries ability of vaccines for use by global programs and on the vul- . Because very young infants are less prone to nerable populations in high-risk settings who would benefit develop intussusception, initial immunization at birth might from cholera vaccine remains limited. Although scientific Despite this setback,efforts to produce an effective and safe ority is less than that ofa vaccine for rotavirus or Shigella. rotavirus vaccine continue.The Rhesus vaccine has been reli- censed to
