Chapter
KEYWORDS: diarrhea, dna, children, diarrheal, countries, vaccine, breastfeeding, mortality, interventions, water, disease, cholera, developing, year, rotavirus


volume. ments given during an episode of acute diarrhea reduce both duration and severity and could prevent 300,000 deaths in chil- dren each year .WHO and UNICEF now recom- COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERVENTIONS mend that all children with acute diarrhea be given zinc in some form for 10 to 14 days during and after diarrhea (10 mil- Cost-effectiveness ratios ofdiarrheal disease interventions were ligrams per day for infants younger than 6 months and 20 mil- calculated by World Bank region in terms ofdisability-adjusted ligrams per day for those older than 6 months) (WHO and life years (DALYs) averted for a model population of1 million, UNICEF 2004). following the standardized guidelines of the Disease Control Pilot studies in Brazil,Egypt,Ethiopia,India,Mali,Pakistan, Priorities Project for economic analyses (see chapter 15). and the Philippines that include zinc routinely in the manage- Europe and Central Asia were excluded because data were lack- ment of acute diarrhea not only show an improvement over ing owing to the low prevalence of disease. Input variables ORS alone but also suggest two important new effects:(a) use included (a) region-specific diarrhea morbidity rates adapted rates of ORS increase,and (b) use rates of antidiarrheals and from Kosek, Bern, and Guerrant (2003); (b) region-specific 378 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Gerald T. Keusch, Olivier Fontaine, Alok Bhargava, and others underlying mortality rates and age structures provided by the for 2000. Infrastructure improvements for rural and urban Disease Control Priorities Project; (c) median intervention populations were considered separately because of differences effectiveness rates (that is, percentage of diarrheal morbidity in infrastructure type and cost,although the same effectiveness reduction and percentage of diarrheal mortality reduction); rates were used for both. and (d) median per capita intervention costs gathered from the The per child treatment costs and effectiveness rates used literature and from personal communications (table 19.1). are presented in table 19.1.Cost per treatment of ORT varied Because approximately 90 percent of all cases in the devel- widely depending on the type and method of ORT imple- oping world occur in children under five,the analysis focused mented. Oral rehydration therapy can be as inexpensive as on this age group alone. Uniform intervention effectiveness US$0.02 per child treated—the cost of a home remedy with rates were assumed for all regions because region-specific sugar and salt. However, treatment can become substantially information was not available. Regional variations in cost- more expensive ifcommercially manufactured ORS is used
