Chapter
KEYWORDS: diarrhea, dna, children, diarrheal, countries, vaccine, breastfeeding, mortality, interventions, water, disease, cholera, developing, year, rotavirus


ratio (2001US$/DALY) 16,000 14,000 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 Low- and middle- East Asia and Latin America Middle East and South Asia Sub-Saharan income countries the Pacific and the Caribbean North Africa Africa Breastfeeding promotion Rotavirus immunization Cholera immunization Measles immunization Water and sanitation (urban) Water and sanitation (rural) ORT Source: Authors. Figure 19.3 Cost-Effectiveness: Intervention at Birth through Age 5 with Benefits that Occur over Five Years (age 0–4) Table 19.2 Cost-Effectiveness Ratios of Oral Rehydration Preventive strategies—such as breastfeeding,improving com- Therapy Interventions Based on Minimum, Median, and plementaryfeedingandusingmicronutrientsupplementation Maximum per Capita Costs (2001 US$/DALY) or fortification, and increasing coverage with the full set of Expanded Programme on Immunization vaccines (especially Region Minimum cost Median cost Maximum cost measles vaccine)—are all useful and effective . Low- and middle-income Failuretoseparatelytrackthefullimpactofbloodydiarrhea— countries 4 1,062 2,124 especially Shigella infection—on morbidity and mortality or East Asia and the Pacific 4 132 260 toeffectivelyimplementgoodclinicalmanagement(including Latin America and the guidelinesforandcontrolovertheuseofantibiotics)hascon- Caribbean 20 2,570 5,120 tributed to the continuing burden of bloody diarrhea and Middle East and dysentery worldwide and the alarming increase in antibiotic North Africa 10 2,564 5,113 resistance. The challenges for the next decade will be to South Asia 4 642 1,279 increase or ensure universal appropriate implementation of Sub-Saharan Africa 4 988 1,972 theseinterventionsindevelopingcountriesandtoavoidasit- Source:Authors. uation in which they compete for funding and staff time. Delivery of good-quality services is essential, and much high variation in cost-effectiveness for the other regions as well. remains to be learned through research before this require- There remains little doubt,however,about the effect of wide- mentcanbemet. spread use of ORT on diarrhea morbidity and mortality and Other interventions, such as vaccines against rotavirus, about the associated direct and indirect cost savings for treat- Shigella,or cholera,are either not yet available or not ready for ment and hospitalization. universal administration.Progress toward the development of these vaccines, with the highest priority for the first two, is RESEARCH AGENDA encouraging,but further investments in research and develop- ment will be required before large-scale implementation of GoodevidencenowsupportstheviewthatpromotingORTin these interventions can be considered. The cost of these vac- conjunctionwithotherkeyinterventions,preventiveaswellas cines will remain a major constraint for poor people,who can- curative,hashadalargeroleinthemarkedreductionindeaths not pay for the costs of development and ensure reasonable of children caused by diarrhea (Victora and others 2000). profits for industry. However, increased public investment in Diarrheal Diseases | 383 fundamental and applied research,vaccine purchase schemes, CONCLUSIONS and development of low-cost, high-quality
