Varicose veins: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: veins, varicose, varicose veins, treatment, compression, people, interventional, ablation, hosiery, foam sclerotherapy, foam, sclerotherapy, disease, stages, patients


Overview This guideline covers diagnosing and managing varicose veins in people aged 18 and over. It aims to ensure that people understand the options for treating varicose veins and that healthcare professionals know when to refer people for specialist assessment and treatment. Who is it for? • Healthcare professionals • Commissioners and providers • People with varicose veins and their families and carers Introduction Varicose veins are dilated, often palpable subcutaneous veins with reversed blood flow. They are most commonly found in the legs. Estimates of the prevalence of varicose veins vary. Visible varicose veins in the lower limbs are estimated to affect at least a third of the population. Risk factors for developing varicose veins are unclear, although prevalence rises with age and they often develop during pregnancy. In some people varicose veins are asymptomatic or cause only mild symptoms, but in others they cause pain, aching or itching and can have a significant effect on their quality of life. Varicose veins may become more severe over time and can lead to complications such as changes in skin pigmentation, bleeding or venous ulceration. It is not known which people will develop more severe disease but it is estimated that 3% to 6% of people who have varicose veins in their lifetime will develop venous ulcers. There are several options for the management of varicose veins, including: • advice and reassurance • interventional treatments (endothermal ablation, foam sclerotherapy and surgery) • compression hosiery. In 2009 to 2010, there were 35,659 varicose veins procedures carried out in the NHS. There is no definitive system for identifying which people will benefit the most from interventional treatment and no established framework within the NHS for the diagnosis and management of varicose veins. This has resulted in wide regional variations in the management of varicose veins in the UK. This guideline was developed with the aim of giving healthcare professionals guidance on the diagnosis and management of varicose veins in the legs, in order to improve patient care and minimise disparities in care across the UK. The guideline will assume that prescribers will use a drug's summary of product characteristics to inform decisions made with individual patients. Key priorities for implementation The following recommendations have been identified as priorities for implementation. Referral to a vascular service • Refer people to a vascular service if they have any of the following. • Symptomatic primary or
