Varicose veins: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: veins, varicose, varicose veins, treatment, compression, people, interventional, ablation, hosiery, foam sclerotherapy, foam, sclerotherapy, disease, stages, patients


have been identified as priorities for implementation. Referral to a vascular service • Refer people to a vascular service if they have any of the following. • Symptomatic primary or symptomatic recurrent varicose veins. • Lower-limb skin changes, such as pigmentation or eczema, thought to be caused by chronic venous insufficiency. • Superficial vein thrombosis (characterised by the appearance of hard, painful veins) and suspected venous incompetence. • A venous leg ulcer (a break in the skin below the knee that has not healed within 2 weeks). • A healed venous leg ulcer. A vascular service is a team of healthcare professionals who have the skills to undertake a full clinical and duplex ultrasound assessment and provide a full range of treatment. Symptomatic veins are veins found in association with troublesome lower limb symptoms (typically pain, aching, discomfort, swelling, heaviness and itching). Assessment and treatment in a vascular service Assessment • Use duplex ultrasound to confirm the diagnosis of varicose veins and the extent of truncal reflux, and to plan treatment for people with suspected primary or recurrent varicose veins. Interventional treatment • For people with confirmed varicose veins and truncal reflux: • Offer endothermal ablation (see the NICE interventional procedures guidance on radiofrequency ablation of varicose veins and endovenous laser treatment of the long saphenous vein). • If endothermal ablation is unsuitable, offer ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy (see the NICE interventional procedures guidance on ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy for varicose veins). • If ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy is unsuitable, offer surgery. If incompetent varicose tributaries are to be treated, consider treating them at the same time. Non-interventional treatment • Do not offer compression hosiery to treat varicose veins unless interventional treatment is unsuitable. Recommendations The following guidance is based on the best available evidence. The full guideline gives details of the methods and the evidence used to develop the guidance. People have the right to be involved in discussions and make informed decisions about their care, as described in NICE's information on making decisions about your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of our recommendations, and has information about prescribing medicines (including off-label use), professional guidelines, standards and laws (including on consent and mental capacity), and safeguarding. 1.1 Information for people with varicose veins 1.1.1 Give people who present with varicose veins information that includes: • An explanation of what varicose
