Varicose veins: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: veins, varicose, varicose veins, treatment, compression, people, interventional, ablation, hosiery, foam sclerotherapy, foam, sclerotherapy, disease, stages, patients


veins and the extent of truncal reflux, and to plan treatment for people with suspected primary or recurrent varicose veins. Interventional treatment 1.3.2 For people with confirmed varicose veins and truncal reflux: • Offer endothermal ablation (see NICE's interventional procedures guidance on radiofrequency ablation of varicose veins and endovenous laser treatment of the long saphenous vein). • If endothermal ablation is unsuitable, offer ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy (see NICE's interventional procedures guidance on ultrasound- guided foam sclerotherapy for varicose veins). • If ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy is unsuitable, offer surgery. If incompetent varicose tributaries are to be treated, consider treating them at the same time. 1.3.3 If offering compression bandaging or hosiery for use after interventional treatment, do not use for more than 7 days. Non-interventional treatment 1.3.4 Do not offer compression hosiery to treat varicose veins unless interventional treatment is unsuitable. 1.4 Management during pregnancy 1.4.1 Give pregnant women presenting with varicose veins information on the effect of pregnancy on varicose veins. 1.4.2 Do not carry out interventional treatment for varicose veins during pregnancy other than in exceptional circumstances. 1.4.3 Consider compression hosiery for symptom relief of leg swelling associated with varicose veins during pregnancy. Recommendations for research The Guideline Development Group has made the following recommendations for research, based on its review of evidence, to improve NICE guidance and patient care in the future. The Guideline Development Group's full set of research recommendations is detailed in appendix N of the full guideline. 1 Natural history of varicose veins In people with varicose veins at CEAP (Clinical, etiological, anatomical and pathophysiological) stage C2 or C3, what are the factors that influence progression of the disease to CEAP stages C5 or C6? Why this is important The evidence review for the guideline showed a lack of high-quality evidence on the progression of varicose veins from CEAP stage C2 or C3 to more serious varicose veins disease. A large, observational, prospective cohort study, similar to the Framingham or Bonn veins studies, should be undertaken. The study should recruit patients with C2 and C3 disease and follow the progress of their disease for 5 years. Consideration should be given to including a genetic component in the study because genetic factors have not been studied on a large scale. The results of such a study should help to more accurately identify which patients are at risk of developing more serious disease so that interventions can
