Varicose veins: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: veins, varicose, varicose veins, treatment, compression, people, interventional, ablation, hosiery, foam sclerotherapy, foam, sclerotherapy, disease, stages, patients


on a large scale. The results of such a study should help to more accurately identify which patients are at risk of developing more serious disease so that interventions can be offered at an early stage to those who will benefit most. 2 Compression as a management option What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of compression hosiery versus no compression for the management of symptomatic varicose veins? Why this is important Compression hosiery is widely used as first-line treatment for symptomatic varicose veins. In some areas of the UK a period of hosiery use is a precursor to referral to secondary care. Discomfort and difficulty in application may cause people to stop wearing compression hosiery or wear it only occasionally. The current evidence for the benefit of compression hosiery is weak. There is little evidence of an impact on symptom relief or an improvement in quality of life. It is therefore not possible to calculate the cost effectiveness of compression hosiery. A multicentre trial randomising compression hosiery versus no compression in patients with symptomatic varicose veins is needed. The trial should evaluate quality of life, including symptom reduction, and measure adherence with compression hosiery. In addition the trial should investigate the impact of compression on disease progression and the need for subsequent intervention. 3 Compression after interventional treatment What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of compression bandaging or hosiery after interventional treatment for varicose veins compared with no compression? If there is benefit, how long should compression bandaging or hosiery be worn for? Why this is important The benefit of compression after interventional treatment for varicose veins is unclear. A well-conducted, multicentre, randomised controlled trial (RCT) of compression after interventional treatment would help determine whether compression is beneficial, and if so, what type is best and how long it should be worn for. The trial should include patients who have had 1 of the 3 main interventional treatments: endothermal ablation, ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy or surgery. The patients should be divided into 3 groups based on the type of intervention they have had. There should be 6 RCT arms, 1 arm with compression and 1 arm without, in each of the 3 patient groups. Each arm should have subgroups for compression type and duration. Adherence to compression treatment and the impact of adherence on effectiveness should also be evaluated. A cost-effectiveness analysis should be performed. If compression is beneficial,
