Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: intra-abdominal, patients, risk, complicated, mortality, infection, infections, severity, study, complicated intra-abdominal, intra-abdominal infection, score, scoring, sepsis, studies


IDSA GUIDELINES 2024 Clinical Practice Guideline Update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America on Complicated Intra-abdominal Infections: Risk Assessment in Adults and Children Robert A. Bonomo,1,2,3,4Anthony W. Chow,5Fredrick M. Abrahamian,6,7Mary Bessesen,8,9E. Patchen Dellinger,10Morven S. Edwards,11Ellie Goldstein,12 Mary K. Hayden,13Romney Humphries,14Keith S. Kaye,15Brian A. Potoski,16Jesús Rodríguez-Baño,17Robert Sawyer,18Marion Skalweit,19 David R. Snydman,20Pranita D. Tamma,21Katelyn Donnelly,22Dipleen Kaur,22and Jennifer Loveless22 of complicated intra-abdominal infections in adults, children, and pregnant people, developed by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. In this paper, the panel provides a recommendation for risk stratification according to severity of illness score. The panel’s recommendation is based on evidence derived from systematic literature reviews and adheres to a standardized methodology for rating the certainty of evidence and strength of recommendation according to the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) approach. Keywords. intra-abdominal infection; risk assessment; risk stratification; severity of illness; guideline. In adults and children with complicated intra-abdominal infection. For adults with complicated intra- intra-abdominal infection, which severity of illness abdominal infection, if a severity of illness score is used, the panel score for risk stratification calculated within 24 hours suggests APACHE II (Acute Physiology Age Chronic Health of hospital or intensive care unit (ICU) admission best Evaluation II) as the preferred severity of illness score for risk predicts 30-day or in-hospital mortality? stratification within 24 hours of hospitalization or ICU admis- sion (conditional recommendation, low certainty of evidence). Recommendation: Risk stratification according to severity of illness is important for management of complicated Remarks: • Because the WSES (World Society of Emergency Surgery) Sepsis Severity Score is specific to complicated intra- Posted online at alternative to APACHE II for adults with complicated intra- on 13 June 2024. abdominal infection. Please check website for most updated version of this guideline. • No severity of illness scoring system specific to complicated Cleveland, OH 44106 (). intra-abdominal infection can be recommended to guide Clinical Infectious Diseases® 2024;79(9):S88–93 management of pediatric patients with complicated intra- © The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases abdominal infection at present. for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information This paper is part of a clinical practice guideline update on please contact . the risk assessment, diagnostic imaging, and microbiological S88 • CID 2024:79 (15 October) • Bonomo
