Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: intra-abdominal, patients, risk, complicated, mortality, infection, infections, severity, study, complicated intra-abdominal, intra-abdominal infection, score, scoring, sepsis, studies


information This paper is part of a clinical practice guideline update on please contact . the risk assessment, diagnostic imaging, and microbiological S88 • CID 2024:79 (15 October) • Bonomo et al Downloaded from by guest on May evaluation of complicated intra-abdominal infections in adults, Details of the systematic review and guideline development children, and pregnant people, developed by the Infectious processes are available in the Supplementary Material. Diseases Society of America [1–7]. Here, the guideline panel provides a recommendation for risk stratification in adults SUMMARY OF EVIDENCE with complicated intra-abdominal infection, according to se- verity of illness as determined by a scoring system. This recom- Severity of illness assessment can be helpful in risk stratification mendation replaces previous statements in the last iteration of and for choosing treatment strategies for patients with compli- this guideline . cated intra-abdominal infection. Although several severity of A complicated intra-abdominal infection extends beyond illness scoring tools have been studied in patients with compli- the hollow viscus of origin into the peritoneal space and is as- cated intra-abdominal infection, none had been subjected to a sociated with either abscess formation or peritonitis; this term rigorous systematic review and meta-analysis. is not meant to describe the infection’s severity or anatomy. An uncomplicated intra-abdominal infection involves intramural Severity of Illness Scoring Systems for Complicated inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract and has a substantial Intra-abdominal Infection probability of progressing to complicated infection if not ade- Over 20 different severity of illness scoring systems have been quately treated. reported in the studies found. The 4 most common scoring sys- This recommendation is intended for use by healthcare pro- tems were all disease-nonspecific and included: APACHE II fessionals who care for patients with suspected intra-abdominal , SOFA (Sequential Organ Failure Assessment) , infections. SAPS II (Simplified Acute Physiology Score II) , and ASA (American Society of Anesthesiologists) . APACHE II was introduced in 1985 to reflect both premorbid factors METHODS such as patient age and chronic medical conditions, as well as The panel’s recommendation is based on evidence derived acute changes in 12 physiologic parameters . SOFA was in- from systematic literature reviews and adheres to a standard- troduced in 1996 to assess patients with sepsis-associated mul- ized methodology for rating the certainty of evidence and tiple organ failure or dysfunction in critical care units . The strength of recommendation according to the GRADE score is based on 6
