Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: intra-abdominal, patients, risk, complicated, mortality, infection, infections, severity, study, complicated intra-abdominal, intra-abdominal infection, score, scoring, sepsis, studies


for rating the certainty of evidence and tiple organ failure or dysfunction in critical care units . The strength of recommendation according to the GRADE score is based on 6 different organ systems (respiratory, cardio- (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, vascular, hepatic, coagulation, renal, and neurological) but does and Evaluation) approach (Supplementary Figure 1) . The not include age and chronic health or comorbidities. SAPS II recommendation has been endorsed by the European Society was introduced in 1993 based on logistic regression modeling of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases (ESCMID) of a North American/European multicenter study of adult and the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society (PIDS). Strong ICU patients . Scoring was based on 12 physiologic vari- of action would apply to most people with few exceptions. to underlying disease. ASA was originally developed in Conditional recommendations are made when the suggested 1941 to assess anesthetic risks but was later found to also be course of action would apply to the majority of people with useful for assessing surgical risks . These 4 scoring systems many exceptions and shared decision making is important. were selected for systematic review and meta-analyses A comprehensive literature search (through October 2022) (Supplementary Table 1). Only 5 of the severity scoring systems was conducted as part of a systematic review. Key eligibility cri- were disease-specific and validated for patients with different teria at both the topic and clinical question levels guided the complicated intra-abdominal infections: Peptic Ulcer dressed here, the panel considered patients with complicated for patients with complicated intra-abdominal infection ; intra-abdominal infection who received a scoring tool to assess and Ranson , Glasgow, and BISAP (Bedside Index of risk. Studies reporting on 30-day or in-hospital mortality that Severity in Acute Pancreatitis) for acute necrotizing pan- referenced adjusted, multivariate analyses were included. Refer creatitis. The WSES Sepsis Severity score was derived in to the full list of eligibility criteria in the Supplementary Material. Europe from 6 clinical determinants found to be independent the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and 95% con- cated intra-abdominal infection (clinical condition of the fidence intervals (CIs) were generated for each scoring tool us- patient on admission with either severe sepsis or shock, ing random effects meta-analysis of pooled results . healthcare-associated infection, gastrointestinal origin of infec- Included studies underwent critical appraisal according to the tion, delayed initial intervention >24 hours, age >70 years, and GRADE approach, and then an assessment
