Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: intra-abdominal, patients, risk, complicated, mortality, infection, infections, severity, study, complicated intra-abdominal, intra-abdominal infection, score, scoring, sepsis, studies


easy to calculate for all patients abdominal infection was quantitated by the concordance I-statistic, also known as ROC or area under the receiver oper- culator is available online ( ating characteristic (AUC) curve . The ROC ranges from htm). 0.5 (no discriminative ability) to 1 (perfect discriminative abil- SOFA was not selected for 3 reasons: (a) SOFA was developed ity). Values from 0.7–0.8 are considered acceptable, 0.8–0.9 as originally to sequentially assess the degree of multiple organ fail- excellent, and <0.6 as poor. The available pooled ROC of these ure in critically ill patients with sepsis, but is not suitable for cat- scoring systems is shown in Supplementary Figures 2–6. All egorizing patients with low-moderate severity without sepsis or 4 disease-non-specific scoring systems performed well since organ failure within 24 hours of hospital admission; (b) SOFA their pooled AUC values were close to 0.8. APACHE II and was not intended to indicate the success or failure of interven- SOFA had the best discriminative power (pooled AUC of tions or to influence medical management ; (c) SOFA 0.81 and 0.75, respectively) [23, 27, 32, 42, 50–53]. ROC data assesses the dysfunction of six organ systems (respiratory, cardio- were reported by only 1 study each for SAPS II (AUC 0.83), vascular, neurologic, renal, hepatic, coagulation) but does not ASA (0.70), and WSES Sepsis Severity Score (0.83) . The evidence underpinning this recommendation is of low which are important components of APACHE II. Although certainty due to study risk of bias concerns (according to SAPS II performed well, it was evaluated in 5 studies with QUIPS assessment; Supplementary Tables 2a–e) ; in- more limited study populations. Additionally, only 1 study re- consistency of results for the APACHE II studies, specifically; ported ROC data for discriminative power. Similarly, ASA was imprecision; and suspected publication bias due to reporting statistically significant risk factors only (Supplementary evaluated in 7 studies and was found to be an independent pre- Table 3). dictor for mortality in only 4. ASA is also less precise and subject to inter-observer bias compared to other severity scoring systems . WSES Sepsis Severity Score, the only disease-specific Other Independent Risk Factors for Mortality A total of 36 other independent risk factors besides severity of scoring tool for complicated intra-abdominal infection, also per- illness scores were identified from 34 studies (Supplementary formed well; however, only moderately ill patients were included Table 4) [16–18, 21,
