Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: intra-abdominal, patients, risk, complicated, mortality, infection, infections, severity, study, complicated intra-abdominal, intra-abdominal infection, score, scoring, sepsis, studies


of scoring tool for complicated intra-abdominal infection, also per- illness scores were identified from 34 studies (Supplementary formed well; however, only moderately ill patients were included Table 4) [16–18, 21, 22, 24, 26, 28, 31, 34, 35, 39, 42, 44–47, in these studies. This scoring system was developed and validated 53, 58–72]. Where more than 1 study identified the same risk based on findings of a large multicenter study of patients with factor, the pooled OR and 95% CI was reported and only if stat- complicated intra-abdominal infection spanning 54 countries istically significant. These risk factors were categorized into (a) worldwide , and then validated in two single-center prospec- non-modifiable (16 factors) and (b) potentially modifiable tive studies from the United Arab Emirates (multivariate model) (20 factors). Among the latter, presence of renal (10 studies), and Kenya (univariate model) . Importantly, the overall cardiovascular (5 studies) or respiratory (4 studies) dysfunc- mortality in these studies was relatively low, ranging from 1% to tion, sepsis (3 studies) or shock (5 studies), inadequate source 12.8% (mean 9.1%), and the most common complicated intra- control (3 studies), delayed (>24 hours) source control (5 abdominal infections included in these studies were perforated S90 • CID 2024:79 (15 October) • Bonomo et al Downloaded from by guest on May appendicitis or duodenal perforation. It is unclear if the WSES Schofield, statistician, for contributions to the design of the analysis; Dr sepsis severity score is generalizable to more seriously ill patients. Reed Siemieniuk, methodologist, for contributions to the analysis on other independent risk factors for mortality; and Sarah Pahlke, methodologist, At present, no specific risk stratification scheme can be rec- for significant contributions to the finalization of the manuscript and ommended to guide management of pediatric patients with Supplementary Material. Rebecca Goldwater and Imani Amponsah provid- complicated intra-abdominal infection. Although some scoring ed project coordination. The panel would also like to acknowledge the fol- lowing organizations and selected reviewers for their review of the draft systems, including PRISM (Pediatric Risk of Mortality) , manuscript: European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious PIM (Pediatric Index of Mortality) , and PELOD-2 Diseases, Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society, and Drs Sheldon Brown (in- (Pediatric Logistic Organ Dysfunction-2) have been vali- fectious diseases), Eric Cober (infectious diseases), and Patrick T. Delaplain (pediatric surgery). dated for children admitted to pediatric intensive care units Dr Robert Bonomo is chair of the panel. Drs
