Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: intra-abdominal, patients, risk, complicated, mortality, infection, infections, severity, study, complicated intra-abdominal, intra-abdominal infection, score, scoring, sepsis, studies


fectious diseases), Eric Cober (infectious diseases), and Patrick T. Delaplain (pediatric surgery). dated for children admitted to pediatric intensive care units Dr Robert Bonomo is chair of the panel. Drs Anthony Chow and Robert (PICUs), they are primarily used as tools for quality assessment Bonomo served as clinical leads for the questions addressed in this manu- and performance measures of PICUs. Their utility as a tool to script. All panelists assisted with conception and design of the analysis, in- guide individual patient management in disease-specific condi- terpretation of data, drafting and revising the recommendations and manuscript, and final approval of the recommendations and manuscript tions such as complicated intra-abdominal infection both in- to be published. Jennifer Loveless, lead methodologist, and Katelyn side and outside of the PICU setting remains unclear. Donnelly, methodologist, were responsible for project management, de- signing and performing the data analyses, and leading the panel according to the GRADE process. IMPLEMENTATION CONSIDERATIONS Disclaimer. It is important to recognize that guidelines cannot always account for individual variation among patients. They are assessments of Risk stratification based on severity of illness is an important current scientific and clinical information provided as an educational ser- predictor of mortality in patients with complicated intra- vice; are not continually updated and may not reflect the most recent evi- abdominal infection and can guide appropriate therapy and ur- dence (new evidence may emerge between the time information is drafted and when it is published or read); should not be considered inclusive of all gency of source control. It is best to determine risk as early as proper methods of care or as a statement of the standard of care; do not Risk groups based on APACHE II scores can be categorized nician judgment with respect to particular patients or situations. Whether to follow guidelines and to what extent is voluntary, with the ultimate de- into “low” (0–10), “intermediate” (11–15), and “high” (>15), termination regarding their application to be made by the clinician in the with predicted mortality of 20%–30% in the “intermediate” light of each patient’s individual circumstances. While the Infectious risk group and ∼50% in the “high” risk group in patients Diseases Society of America (IDSA) makes every effort to present accurate, with complicated intra-abdominal infection . It is equally complete, and reliable information, these guidelines are presented “as is” without any warranty, either express or implied. IDSA (and its officers, di-
