Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: intra-abdominal, patients, risk, complicated, mortality, infection, infections, severity, study, complicated intra-abdominal, intra-abdominal infection, score, scoring, sepsis, studies


with complicated intra-abdominal infection . It is equally complete, and reliable information, these guidelines are presented “as is” without any warranty, either express or implied. IDSA (and its officers, di- important to identify other independent risk factors for mortal- rectors, members, employees, and agents) assume no responsibility for any ity not captured by APACHE II in “low” risk patients. loss, damage, or claim with respect to any liabilities, including direct, spe- cial, indirect, or consequential damages, incurred in connection with these guidelines or reliance on the information presented. RESEARCH NEEDS The guidelines represent the proprietary and copyrighted property of Just prior to publication, a new pediatric sepsis score was pub- distributed, or transmitted in any form or by any means, including photo- lished, the Phoenix Sepsis Score . The score has been copying, recording, or other electronic or mechanical methods, without the healthcare providers solely to copy and use the guidelines in their profes- ICU settings. Future studies applying the Phoenix Sepsis sional practices and clinical decision making. No license or permission is Score, PRISM, PIM, and PELOD-2 to intra-abdominal infec- granted to any person or entity, and prior written authorization by IDSA tion specifically would be very helpful. Additionally, further is required to sell, distribute, or modify the guidelines, or to make derivative works of or incorporate the guidelines into any product, including, but not validation of the WSES Sepsis Severity Score in more critically ill patients would be beneficial. Except for the permission granted above, any person or entity desiring to use the guidelines in any way must contact IDSA for approval in accor- Supplementary Data dance with the terms and conditions of third-party use, in particular, any use of the guidelines in any software product. Supplementary Materialsare available at Clinical Infectious Diseases online. Additional information. More detailed information on the analysis and Consisting of data provided by the authors to benefit the reader, the posted development of recommendations is available in the Supplementary materials are not copyedited and are the sole responsibility of the authors, Material. so questions or comments should be addressed to the corresponding Financial support. This work was supported by the Infectious Diseases author. Society of America. Potential conflicts of interest. Evaluation of relationships as potential con- Notes flicts of interest (COIs) is determined by a review process. The assessment of Acknowledgments. The expert panel would like to acknowledge the pre- disclosed relationships for
