Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: intra-abdominal, patients, risk, complicated, mortality, infection, infections, severity, study, complicated intra-abdominal, intra-abdominal infection, score, scoring, sepsis, studies


as potential con- Notes flicts of interest (COIs) is determined by a review process. The assessment of Acknowledgments. The expert panel would like to acknowledge the pre- disclosed relationships for possible COIs is based on the relative weight of the vious panel, under the leadership of Dr Joseph Solomkin, for their work on financial relationship (ie, monetary amount) and the relevance of the relation- the previous iteration of the guideline. The panel would like to acknowl- ship (ie, the degree to which an association might reasonably be interpreted by edge the contributions of Elena Guadagno, medical librarian, for the crea- an independent observer as related to the topic or recommendation of consid- tion and execution of question-specific literature searches; Dr Thomas eration). A. W. C. receives honoraria from UpToDate, Inc. J. R. B. serves as IDSA Guideline on Complicated Intra-abdominal Infections: Risk Assessment • CID 2024:79 (15 October) • S91 Downloaded from by guest on May Infectious Diseases. M. S. E. receives royalties from UpToDate, Inc. as co- Severity Score for patients with complicated intra-abdominal infections: a pro- section editor of Pediatric Infectious Diseases. M. K. H. serves on the spective multicentre study (WISS Study). World J Emerg Surg 2015; 10:61. Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America Board of Directors. All other 19. Ranson JH, Pasternack BS. Statistical methods for quantifying the severity of clin- authors report no relevant disclosures. ical acute pancreatitis. J Surg Res 1977; 22:79–91. 20. Li Y, Zhang J, Zou J. Evaluation of four scoring systems in prognostication of All authors have submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure of Potential acute pancreatitis for elderly patients. BMC Gastroenterol 2020; 20:165. Conflicts of Interest. Conflicts that the editors consider relevant to the con- 21. Karvellas CJ, Dong V, Abraldes JG, Lester EL, Kumar A. The impact of delayed tent of the manuscript have been disclosed. source control and antimicrobial therapy in 196 patients with cholecystitis-associated septic shock: a cohort analysis. Can J Surg 2019; 62:189–98. References 22. Lichtenstern C, Herold C, Mieth M, et al. Relevance of Candida and other myco- ses for morbidity and mortality in severe sepsis and septic shock due to peritonitis. Mycoses 2015; 58:399–407. update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America on complicated intra- 23. Pan J, Zhu Q, Zhang X, et al. Factors influencing the prognosis of patients with abdominal infections: risk assessment, diagnostic imaging, and microbiologi- cal evaluation in adults, children,
