Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


ABSTRACT Radiation treatment is used for patients with secreting and non-secreting pituitary adenomas, with residual pituitary adenomas, or recurrent pituitary adenomas with the aim to achieve long term disease control. Radiotherapy is an integral component of the management of other tumors in the sellar region (craniopharyngiomas) and for certain types of cancers and lymphomas. Pituitary hormone deficiencies are the commonest late complication of radiotherapy, which usually occurs after several years. The development of hormone deficiencies with time varies in the published literature. Predictors for the development of hypopituitarism are the dose of radiation and the age at time of treatment. Different pituitary axes appear to have different radio-sensitivity with the somatotrophic axis being the most sensitive. Long-term endocrine evaluations are recommended in patients after cranial radiotherapy to identify new pituitary hormone deficiencies and introduce appropriate hormone replacement therapy. Clinical evaluation, baseline pituitary hormone assessment, and dynamic testing for growth hormone and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) deficiency should begin one year after cranial radiotherapy. Compared with conventional radiotherapy, advanced radiation technologies (stereotactic radiosurgery, cyber knife, fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy, proton beam therapy) are presumed to have the ability to deliver radiation to the tumor with remarkable precision minimizing its effects on healthy tissues. Results from larger series with longer length of follow-up are needed to help clinicians identify who will benefit most from advanced radiation techniques. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION In the past few decades, the survival of patients with brain tumors, including malignant tumors has improved greatly. However, these patients tend to develop acute and late complications of tumor treatment, which includes cranial irradiation. The rationale for radiotherapy is to achieve excellent long-term tumor control after partial surgical excision and published 10-year tumor control rates are reported to be high. The following diseases are treated with radiotherapy: pituitary adenomas or other sellar tumors not derived from pituitary tissue (craniopharyngioma, meningioma, germinoma), brain cancers, head and neck tumors, and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) ( Table 1 ). Table 1. Diseases Treated with Cranial Irradiation View in own window PITUITARY Acromegaly, Cushing disease, prolactinoma, nonfunctioning pituitary adenoma OTHER SELLAR TUMORS Craniopharyngioma, meningioma, germinoma NONPITUITARY BRAIN TUMORS Meningioma, metastases, neuroblastoma, lymphoma HEAD AND NECK TUMORS Nasopharyngeal carcinoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, retinoblastoma, skull-based tumors HEMATOLOGICAL MALIGNANCIES Acute lymphoblastic leukemia, lymphoma OTHER DISEASES REQUIRING HEMATOPOIETIC STEM-CELL TRANSPLANTATION (after conditioning with total body irradiation) Following radiotherapy,
