Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


HEAD AND NECK TUMORS Nasopharyngeal carcinoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, retinoblastoma, skull-based tumors HEMATOLOGICAL MALIGNANCIES Acute lymphoblastic leukemia, lymphoma OTHER DISEASES REQUIRING HEMATOPOIETIC STEM-CELL TRANSPLANTATION (after conditioning with total body irradiation) Following radiotherapy, the side effects of radiotherapy may be acute toxicity (within weeks of completion of therapy) and late toxicity which occur years after treatment. The risk of toxicity depends on the total radiation dose. Doses are divided into fractions and the duration of cranial radiotherapy varies from one or a few days in short courses to several weeks of daily radiations in long courses. Higher doses (up to 60Gy) are used for pituitary tumors, non-pituitary brain tumors, head and neck tumors (nasopharyngeal cancer, rhabdomyosarcoma) and skull-base tumors, while lower doses are used in patients with ALL and total body irradiation as preconditioning before bone or stem cell transplantation ( 1 - 14 ). Radiotherapy has greatly evolved over the past few decades. Conventional radiotherapy has been used for the longest period of time. Conventional radiotherapy is administered by a linear accelerator, with a total dose of 40-45Gy, in at least 20 sessions. A single beam of high-energy radiation is focused onto a small treatment area, but the radiation also includes healthy surrounding tissue. In photon-based radiotherapy, photons interact with the electrons and deposit energy, causing DNA damage. Maximum dose deposition occurs shortly after entering the body, decreasing then until the exit the body. Standard photon-beam radiotherapy (conventional fractionated photon-based) is administered by a linear accelerator and deliver 1.8-2Gy fractions of radiation dose 5 days a week for 4-6 weeks. 3D conformal radiation therapy, including whole brain and total body radiotherapy have been widely used for years but with little possibility of organ at-risk sparing. It involves the use of CT scans and manual optimization of the shaped dose to the tumor. Technical advances in radiotherapy refer to high precision treatment (stereotactic) and they include radiosurgery (gamma knife), robotic arm mounted linear accelerator (cyber knife), and proton beam therapy ( Table 2 ) ( 15 ). Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) delivers a single fraction of high dose radiation focused on the tumor. SRS uses photons (gamma knife, LINAC, cyber knife) or heavy particles (protons). SRS delivers multiple beams stereotactically with high-dose gradients allowing good organ at-risk sparing. Stereotactic radiosurgery uses precise immobilization techniques, CT/MRI and multiple intersecting beams. With this approach it is possible to deliver a single large radiation dose to a
