Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


good organ at-risk sparing. Stereotactic radiosurgery uses precise immobilization techniques, CT/MRI and multiple intersecting beams. With this approach it is possible to deliver a single large radiation dose to a tumor volume, with reduced dose to surrounding healthy tissue. Fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy (FRST) uses a linear accelerator (LINAC) to deliver photon radiotherapy. Tumor targeting and radiation planning are better with the use of computer assisted program. The patient is immobilized for precise delivery of radiation. The treatment is delivered by intensity-modulated radiotherapy or by volumetric-modulated arc radiotherapy. Intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) as an advanced method of delivering conventional radiotherapy, has been used since the 2000s. IMRT relies on several beams, normo-fractioned (with 1-2 Gy fractions), with focus on tumor volume and clear delineation of surrounding healthy tissues. IMRT uses a CT scan and a computer algorithm for automatic-planning of radiotherapy. This radiation technique allows dose escalation to the tumor tissue with sparring normal tissues. The photon radiotherapy has further improved over the next decades and new techniques were introduced: an image-guided radiotherapy (IGRT), volumetric-modulated arc therapy (VMAT) and helical tomo-therapy ( 16 ). In VMAT treatment is delivered using multiple arcs or beams shaped with multi-leaf collimators to the tumor’s geometry. Proton beam therapy uses the delivery of proton particles for the radiation treatment. Protons travel through tissue in a straight line, with more rapid fall-off of radiation with distance from the tumor and the absence of an exit dose (Bragg peak effect). Proton therapy is further indicated in order to spare healthy tissues from radiation due to lack of diffusion of the radiation. Initial data suggest that the radiation-associated endocrine dysfunctions may be reduced with these new radiation techniques. However, further clinical studies with more patients, longer follow-up, control group, randomized prospective studies are needed to better define the consequences of these new radiation methods. Table 2. Radiation Techniques View in own window Type Characteristics Number of sessions CONVENTIONAL The fractionation allows normal tissue to recover, while tumorous tissue is destroyed + extra tumoral side effects several STEREOTACTIC Higher accuracy, fewer side effects Gamma knife radiosurgery Single Fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy several Cyber Knife Single or 3-5 fractions (hypofractionated SRS) PROTON BEAM Lack of diffusion of the radiation + lack of extra tumoral side effects SRS: stereotactic radiosurgery ACUTE AND CHRONIC COMPLICATIONS OF CRANIAL RADIOTHERAPY Acute toxic effects of radiation include skin erythema, hair loss, tiredness, nausea, headache, and hearing problems.
