Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


extra tumoral side effects SRS: stereotactic radiosurgery ACUTE AND CHRONIC COMPLICATIONS OF CRANIAL RADIOTHERAPY Acute toxic effects of radiation include skin erythema, hair loss, tiredness, nausea, headache, and hearing problems. These short-term complications resolve spontaneously within days to weeks after radiotherapy. Long-term complications of pituitary irradiation include hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction (hypopituitarism, hyperprolactinemia, central precocious puberty), optic neuropathy, cranial neuropathies (II, III, IV, V and VI cranial nerve injury), brain radio-necrosis (neurocognitive dysfunction, focal neurologic signs, seizures), carotid artery stenosis, cerebrovascular accidents, and second brain tumors (most commonly meningioma and glioma) ( Table 3 ) ( 17 - 26 ). The risk of hypopituitarism varies, depending on the radiation technique, the radiation dose, and increases with the duration of follow-up. After conventional radiotherapy in patients with a pituitary adenoma, the incidence of hypopituitarism occurs in 30-60% of patients 5-10 years after irradiation. The risk for other radiation-induced chronic complications is usually low (< 5% for new visual deficits, cranial neuropathies, or brain radio-necrosis, and < 1% for secondary brain tumors) ( 27 ). Table 3. Complications of Cranial Radiotherapy View in own window ACUTE CHRONIC Skin erythema Hypothalamic-Pituitary Dysfunction GH deficiency FSH/LH deficiency TSH deficiency ACTH deficiency Hyperprolactinemia Central precocious puberty Hair loss Neuropathy Optic Cranial (II, III, IV, V, VI) Headache Brain Radionecrosis Neurocognitive dysfunction Focal neurological signs Seizures Hearing impairment Carotid artery stenosis Nausea Cerebrovascular insult (stroke) Tiredness Second brain tumor INCIDENCE OF RADIATION-INDUCED NEUROENDOCRINE DYSFUNCTION A number of studies reported very different incidences of radiation-induced hypopituitarism, central precocious puberty, or hyperprolactinemia, depending on indications for radiotherapy, radiation technique, radiation dose, and duration of follow-up. Pituitary Adenomas and Craniopharyngiomas The incidence rate of new onset hypopituitarism after conventional radiotherapy in patients with recurrent or residual functioning or nonfunctioning pituitary adenoma reaches 30-100% after follow-up of 10 years ( 28 - 31 ). According to the data from one of the largest cohorts of 4110 patients with adult-onset growth hormone (GH) deficiency (Pfizer International Metabolic Database, KIMS), 36% of patients with isolated GH deficiency and 37% of patients with multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies had a history of cranial radiotherapy ( 32 ). New data indicate that modern radiation techniques, such as stereotactic radiosurgery or fractionated radiotherapy, can achieve long-term control with lower incidence of radiation-induced hypopituitarism (10-40% of patients at 5 years) compared with conventional radiation techniques ( 33 , 34 ). A systematic review and meta-analysis of 24 studies with
