Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


adenoma, brain tumors, head and neck tumors showed that endocrine deficiencies occurred in about 40% of patients within a median follow-up of 5.6 years, without a clear difference between radiotherapy modalities ( 48 ). In this review, somatotropic axis was the most radiosensitive, while the thyrotropic axis was the least radiosensitive. Systematic search of the literature showed that hypopituitarism can occur within the first year after radiotherapy (range 3 months-25.6 years) in 20-93% of adult cancer patients treated with cranial radiotherapy ( 49 ). It is important to notice early onset of hypopituitarism (within the first year after cranial radiotherapy) and to start replacement therapy (glucocorticoids, thyroxin) in patients with brain metastases or other malignancies treated with cranial radiotherapy (nasopharyngeal cancer, non-pituitary brain tumor, head and neck cancer), and in patients with small cell lung cancer treated with prophylactic cranial irradiation. Modern radiotherapeutic technique with a sparing approach of the hypothalamo-pituitary axis might be a promising option for these patients ( 50 ). Childhood-Onset Brain Tumors Cranial radiotherapy in childhood often affects growth causing growth retardation and affects sexual development causing early or delayed puberty ( 9 , 51 - 55 ). ACTH deficiency may develop many years after the cranial irradiation, especially in childhood cancer survivors who had tumors located and/or had surgery near the hypothalamo-pituitary axis and who received radiotherapy dose of over 30Gy to the hypothalamo-pituitary region ( 56 ). Children treated with radiotherapy for brain tumors had decreased pituitary height and endocrine deficiencies at 2, 5, and 10 years post-diagnosis ( 57 ). In the largest cohort of childhood-onset brain tumors (Childhood Cancer Survivor Study, CCSS), 43% of 1607 children who survived their disease for 5 or more years developed one or more anterior pituitary hormone deficiencies ( 51 ). A retrospective clinical study reported the prevalence of hypopituitarism in a large cohort of 748 adult survivors in the USA treated with cranial radiotherapy in childhood (CCSS), among them 72% with a leukemia diagnosis ( 9 ). After a long duration of follow-up (mean 27.3 years, range 10-47 years), the prevalence of GH deficiency was 46.5%, gonadotropin deficiency 10.8%, TSH deficiency 7.5% and ACTH deficiency 4%. The same population of patients were investigated in 2019, when the authors compared the prevalence of neuroendocrine deficiency in irradiated and non-irradiated childhood cancer survivors ( 58 ). In the 1086 irradiated children 40.2% had GH deficiency, 11.1% had TSH
