Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


to hypothalamic damage), dyslipidemia, metabolic syndrome and low bone mineral density ( 53 ). Guidelines of the Endocrine Society addresses the diagnosis and treatment of hypothalamic-pituitary and growth disorders encountered in childhood cancer survivors ( 63 ). THE PATHOPHYSIOLOGICAL MECHANISMS OF RADIATION-INDUCED NEUROENDOCRINE DYSFUNCTION Cranial irradiation causes irreversible and progressive damage to the hypothalamic-pituitary region. There are several pathophysiological mechanisms of the radiation-induced hypopituitarism including direct hypothalamic neuronal and vascular injury, with secondary pituitary atrophy being the most common mechanism. Female acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) survivors treated with cranial radiotherapy had smaller hypothalamic volume (measured on T1-weighed MRI images), compared to gender matched controls ( 64 ). The integrity of the microstructure of the hypothalamus can be examined in vivo using the MRI technique diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), based on the direction and degree of the diffusion of water molecules. This MRI technique shows brain tissue microstructure alterations and provides information about brain white matter organization by assessing the restriction of randomly moving water molecules. Recently, this new technique of in vivo brain damage investigation was used in cranially irradiated patients (ALL and childhood craniopharyngioma survivors) ( 65 ). Important microstructure alterations in the hypothalamus were detected in ALL survivors, with worse alterations in overweight survivors compared to survivors with normal weight. These microstructure alterations suggest demyelination and axonal loss the hypothalamus and were not found in childhood onset craniopharyngioma survivors without hypothalamic involvement ( 65 ). White matter lesions are pathological changes caused by obstruction of small cerebral vessels resulting in hypo-perfusion of the brain. These lesions can be visualized on T2-weighted MRI and correspond to myelin loss and mild gliosis ( 66 ). In patients with childhood-onset craniopharyngioma after photon cranial radiotherapy (with 3-field technique) an increase in white matter lesions volume was found, as well as reduced hypothalamic volume ( 67 ). The exact time when white matter lesions started to develop seemed to be around 20 years after cranial radiotherapy. The authors reported that having received cranial radiotherapy in childhood-onset craniopharyngioma patients corresponded to the similar effect as being 18 years older. Patients with more white matter lesions had higher cardiovascular risk ( 67 ). Animal studies using radiation-induced brain injury with a total dose of 30Gy (15 Gy with 2 fractions) showed also deficits in axonal transport as a result of multiple factors, such as decline in motor proteins kinesin-1 and cytoplasmic dynein, neuronal apoptosis,
