Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


30Gy (15 Gy with 2 fractions) showed also deficits in axonal transport as a result of multiple factors, such as decline in motor proteins kinesin-1 and cytoplasmic dynein, neuronal apoptosis, synaptic damage and energy metabolism dysfunction (decline in expression of the energy metabolism-related proteins) ( 68 ). The third mechanism of radiation-induced hypothalamic dysfunction is the alteration of the neurotransmitters in the hypothalamus and other brain regions which regulate hypothalamic function ( 69 - 71 ). Animal studies showed that whole brain irradiation (11Gy) decreased levels of inhibitory neurotransmitters (GABA, glycine, taurine, aspartate) and receptors (GABAa receptor) in the hypothalamus, causing a neurochemical imbalance and neuroendocrine disturbances ( 72 ). Direct pituitary damage may also occur, as it is the case in patients after stereotactic radiosurgery for pituitary adenomas. Animal studies using transcriptomics reported also that irradiation significantly changed pituitary transcriptome ( 73 ). These authors found reduced cell proliferation and activation of apoptosis related-p53 signaling pathway in the pituitary gland after cranial irradiation. Also, irradiation increased the expression of pro-inflammatory genes, decreased the expression of anti-inflammatory genes and activated the TNF inflammatory signaling pathway in the pituitary gland, leading to persistent inflammation ( 73 ). These findings could be used to develop new strategies (for example, anti-inflammatory interventions) for reducing radiotherapy-induced side effects. It is also proposed that immune system may be a potential mediator of neuroendocrine dysfunction after cranial radiotherapy. The presence of anti-hypothalamic and anti-pituitary antibodies were found in 47.8% of irradiated children with craniopharyngioma, germinoma or gliomas and none in the healthy controls ( 74 ). The posterior pituitary gland is less sensitive to radiation injury. NEUROENDOCRINE DYSFUNCTION AFTER CRANIAL IRRADIATION The incidence and severity of radiation-induced neuroendocrine dysfunction depends on radiation dose, radiation schedule, and duration of follow-up. Radiation Dose The severity and frequency of pituitary hormone deficiencies, hyperprolactinemia, or central precocious puberty as a complication of cranial radiotherapy correlates with the total radiation dose ( Table 4 ). Table 4. Hypothalamic-Pituitary Dysfunction After Cranial Radiotherapy View in own window DYSFUNCTION HYPOTHALAMIC-PITUITARY DOSE OF IRRADIATION GH deficiency ≥ 18 Gy Central precocious puberty ≥ 18 Gy FSH/LH deficiency ≥ 30 Gy TSH deficiency ≥ 30 Gy ACTH deficiency ≥ 30 Gy Hyperprolactinemia ≥ 50 Gy The somatotroph axis is the most vulnerable and isolated growth hormone deficiency (GHD) may occur with a low radiation dose of 18 Gy ( 75 , 76 ). If the
