Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


The somatotroph axis is the most vulnerable and isolated growth hormone deficiency (GHD) may occur with a low radiation dose of 18 Gy ( 75 , 76 ). If the radiation dose is less than 30 Gy, isolated GHD is present in 30% of patients ( 4 , 28 , 77 ). The incidence of GHD increases to 45-100% of patients if the radiation dose is 30-50Gy ( 47 , 77 - 80 ). If radiation dose is less than 18 Gy, central precocious puberty is a potential complication (with lower effective dose in girls compared with boys), while TSH and ACTH deficiencies are uncommon ( 13 , 47 , 81 ). A large retrospective study reported that the prevalence of central precocious puberty following the treatment of 80 patients with pediatric cancer and CNS tumors was 15.2% overall (29.2% for tumors in the hypothalamic-pituitary region and 6.6% for other CNS tumors) ( 82 ). With an increase of radiation dose, GHD is followed by other pituitary hormone deficiencies: gonadotropin deficiency (30% of patients), TSH deficiency (6-25% of patients) and ACTH deficiency (22% of patients) ( 47 , 83 ). Radiotherapy Schedule The severity of neuroendocrine dysfunction after cranial radiotherapy also depends on the radiotherapy schedule. If the total radiation dose is administered over a short period, it will induce more hypothalamic-pituitary damage than if the same dose is administered over a longer period. Follow-Up Period The incidence of radiation-induced hypopituitarism correlates also with the time elapsed since treatment ( 30 , 31 ). Hormone deficits accumulate throughout the follow-up period, with the majority of hormone deficits developing during the first 5 years post-radiotherapy. In a large study of the effect of cranial radiotherapy in patients with non-pituitary brain tumors, the incidence of all pituitary deficiencies almost doubled between years 2 and 7 of follow-up ( 45 ). GH deficiency occurred the earliest (mean of 2.6 years), followed by gonadotropin deficiency and hyperprolactinemia (after 3.8 years), ACTH deficiency (after 6 years) and TSH deficiency (after 11 years) ( 74 ). After a follow-up period of 10 years, multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies occurred in 30-60% of patients ( 77 , 79 ). NEW RADIATION TECHNIQUES AND HYPOTHALAMIC-PITUITARY DYSFUNCTION New stereotactic radiation techniques (stereotactic radiosurgery with a Leksell gamma knife, a stereotactic linear accelerator, a Cyber Knife, or proton beam therapy) have been developed with the aim to improve effectiveness, to irradiate
