Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


techniques (stereotactic radiosurgery with a Leksell gamma knife, a stereotactic linear accelerator, a Cyber Knife, or proton beam therapy) have been developed with the aim to improve effectiveness, to irradiate less normal tissue, and to reduce toxic effects ( 17 ). The stereotactic radiation techniques involve photon energy from multiple 60 Cobalt radiation sources (gamma knife) or a modified linear accelerator (LINAC). It can be delivered as a single fraction stereotactic radiosurgery or as a fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy. Stereotactic radiosurgery is a single dose radiation technique at doses of 16-25 Gy used in patients with small and medium-sized pituitary adenoma at least 2-4mm from the optic chiasm, whereas fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy is used in patients with large (>2.5-3cm) pituitary adenoma, frequently involving the optic chiasm ( 84 ). Gamma Knife Stereotactic Radiosurgery Gamma knife stereotactic radiosurgery delivers in a single session a highly collimated dose of ionizing radiation ( 60 Cobalt) conformed to the shape of the target and sparing normal tissue, in contrast to conventional radiotherapy, which covers the tumor and the surrounding structures with a fractionated dose gradient of radio-toxicity between target cells and normal tissue. As already mentioned, gamma knife stereotactic radiosurgery is usually used in patients with relatively small tumors not in close proximity of the optic apparatus (at least 2-4mm away from the optic chiasm). The patient wears a rigid metal helmet fixed on the scull. The dose is usually prescribed at the 50% isodose, ensuring maximum dose at the isocenter and prescribed dose at tumor margins. The radiation is delivered in one session and the dose delivered to the tumor margin are higher for functioning pituitary adenomas (18-35 Gy), compared with nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas (10-20Gy) ( 84 ). The studies on long-term follow-up results of gamma knife stereotactic radiosurgery in patients with pituitary adenoma reported radiation-induced hypopituitarism in up to 50% of patients ( 25 , 27 , 85 - 92 ). Data published in last four years and meta-analysis of outcomes and toxicities following stereotactic radiosurgery for nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas showed lower incidence (15-28%) of radiotherapy-induced hypopituitarism ( 93 - 96 ). The retrospective study of long-term results (median of 64.5 months, range 14.5 – 236 months of follow-up) of gamma knife radiosurgery (median tumor margin dose 14 Gy, range 9-20 Gy) for postsurgical residual or recurrent nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas showed new hypopituitarism in 27.5% of patients, hypocortisolism being the most common deficiency
