Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


months (range 6-143 months) ( 97 ). This rate of radiotherapy-induced hypopituitarism in patients with acromegaly after stereotactic radiosurgery is lower compared with fractionated radiotherapy ( 100 ). Another study showed the that 19.6% of patients with acromegaly and Cushing´s disease developed radiation-induced hypopituitarism after a median follow-up time of 39 months (range 6-106 months) and the median margin dose of 30Gy (range 16-35 Gy) ( 101 ). In this study, the most common pituitary axis deficiency was hypothyroidism, in combination with other deficiencies - hypogonadism and growth hormone deficiency (in patients with Cushing´s disease), or hypocorticism (in patients with acromegaly) ( 101 ). Gamma knife radiosurgery is also an option in patients with medically and surgically refractory prolactinomas, in whom hypopituitarism was reported in 30.3% of patients after median follow-up od 42 months (range 6-207.9) ( 90 ). Also, gamma knife radiosurgery may be the initial option for elderly patients with nonfunctioning pituitary adenoma ( 102 ). New-onset hypopituitarism was reported in 19.4% of these patients after the median time of 23.1 months. Some predictors of hypopituitarism following gamma knife stereotactic radiosurgery have been identified and include margin dose to the tumor, supra-sellar extension, the radiation dose to the distal infundibulum (maximum safe dose of 17 Gy), cavernous sinus invasion of the tumor, male sex, smaller pituitary gland volume, tumor volume, mean gland dose, biological effective dose and the amount of healthy tissue within the high dose region ( 87 , 89 , 94 - 96 , 99 - 104 ). Data referring to the development of hypopituitarism related to gamma knife radiosurgery shows that keeping the mean radiation dose to the pituitary under 15 Gy and the dose to the distal infundibulum under 17 Gy may prevent the development of radiation-induced hypopituitarism ( 103 ). Decompression of pituitary gland by surgical resection and dose reduction in pituitary gland may reduce the rate of new hypopituitarism after gamma knife radiosurgery for patients with pituitary adenoma ( 93 ). Gamma knife radiosurgery might be a precipitating factor of new or worsened pituitary hemorrhage ( 95 , 105 ). Pituitary apoplexy (clinical and subclinical) is not a rare phenomenon and could compromise the results of gamma knife radiosurgery. The mechanism of pituitary apoplexy after radiation may include vascular changes and chronic hypo-perfusion of the pituitary gland, associated with tumor infarction, necrosis and hemorrhage. In a study which investigated the incidence, risk
