Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


pituitary apoplexy after radiation may include vascular changes and chronic hypo-perfusion of the pituitary gland, associated with tumor infarction, necrosis and hemorrhage. In a study which investigated the incidence, risk factors and prognosis of pituitary hemorrhage in pituitary adenomas treated with gamma knife radiosurgery, 7.3% patients developed new or worsened pituitary hemorrhage after median time of 18.9 months following radiotherapy (range 3.1-70.7 months) ( 105 ). Some of these patients developed new hypopituitarism. Nonfunctioning pituitary adenoma was independent risk factor of new or worsened pituitary hemorrhage after gamma knife radiosurgery and some of patients received surgical resection for clinical pituitary apoplexy ( 105 ). On the other hand, tumor shrinkage might be accelerated by hemorrhage due to radiotherapy. Pituitary tumor volume (above 10cm 3 ) was significantly associated with new apoplexy after gamma knife radiosurgery ( 95 ). Fractionated Stereotactic Radiotherapy Stereotactic radiosurgery is a convenient radio-therapeutic approach for patients with small either secreting or nonfunctioning pituitary tumors, but caution should be used in patients with moderate or large-sized tumors (>3 cm) in close proximity to critical structures (optic chiasm and brainstem). For these patients, fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy (FSRT) may be a safer treatment option because of advantages of dose fractionation. This therapy is used at doses of 45-54Gy delivered in 25-30 daily fractions in patients with pituitary adenomas. In a study on the efficacy and safety of FRST in patients with large and invasive nonfunctioning pituitary tumors, the incidence of new anterior pituitary deficits was 40% at 5 years and 72% at 10 years, while no other radiation-induced complications occurred ( 106 ). Meta-analysis with more than 600 patients with pituitary adenomas showed that both stereotactic radiosurgery and fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy have comparable efficacy and safety ( 107 ). A recently published meta-analysis of 10 studies analyzed effects of fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy of 256 craniopharyngioma patients and found the new-onset hypopituitarism in 5% of cases ( 108 ). In patients with tumors located near the optic structures, hypo-fractionated radiotherapy may be used, because of lower toxicity for the optic nerves compared with single-dose radiosurgery. Cyber knife uses a linear accelerator mounted on a mobile robotic arm and an image-guided robotic system and it delivers a radiation in 1 or few ( 2 - 5 ) sessions (hypo-fractionated SRS). The patient is immobilized with a thermoplastic masc. Recently published study analyzed 31 acromegaly patients treated with Cyber Knife stereotactic hypo-fractionated
