Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


few ( 2 - 5 ) sessions (hypo-fractionated SRS). The patient is immobilized with a thermoplastic masc. Recently published study analyzed 31 acromegaly patients treated with Cyber Knife stereotactic hypo-fractionated radiotherapy after 62 months of follow-up and reported endocrine remission in 86.7% of patients, with 22.4% cured disease rate at five years ( 109 ). Hypopituitarism was reported in 32.3% patients and no cases of radiation-induced optic neuropathy were reported. Proton Radiotherapy Pediatric diencephalic tumors, such as optic pathway/hypothalamic glioma, craniopharyngioma, germ cell tumors, Langerhans cell histiocytosis, and pituitary adenomas, have excellent survival outcomes and the focus in therapy has shifted toward methods which may reduce long-term morbidity and mortality ( 110 , 111 ). One of the possibilities is the use of proton radiotherapy, as the preferred choice for children with diencephalic tumors, especially craniopharyngioma, low grade glioma and optic pathway glioma ( 110 , 112 ). Proton radiotherapy is the conformal technique used for certain types of cancer and lymphomas, with precise delivery of radiation to a tumor and decreased radiation dose to normal brain because of lower entrance dose and elimination of exit dose compared with photon beams. Less normal brain is irradiated at low or intermediate doses, and this could decrease the risk of late effects of radiation, such as endocrinopathy, second malignancy, or neurocognitive deficits ( 113 ). After the calculation of the expected costs and effectiveness regarding growth hormone deficiency for a specific mean radiation dose to the hypothalamus, it has been demonstrated that proton radiotherapy may be more cost effective (compared with photon radiotherapy) for children in which radiation dose to the hypothalamus can be spared, for tumors not originating in or not directly involving the hypothalamus ( 114 ). Initial studies suggest lower rates of endocrine complications in children treated with proton radiation for medulloblastoma and low-grade glioma, with increased sparing of normal tissues ( 115 , 116 ). The comparison between photon radiotherapy and proton radiotherapy for medulloblastoma showed that newer proton radiotherapy may reduce the risk of some radiation-associated endocrine complications (hypothyroidism and gonadotropin deficiency), but not all complications (the incidence of GH and ACTH deficiency, or precocious puberty was not changed) ( 116 , 117 ). In a study of 118 patients with medulloblastoma (the mean age at diagnosis was 7.6 years, followed for a median of 5.6 years after the radiotherapy) 66% of patients developed growth hormone deficiency,
