Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


of 118 patients with medulloblastoma (the mean age at diagnosis was 7.6 years, followed for a median of 5.6 years after the radiotherapy) 66% of patients developed growth hormone deficiency, 31% developed hypothyroidism, and 18% developed adrenal insufficiency ( 117 ). Primary hypothyroidism occurred less often after proton cranio-spinal radiotherapy (6%) compared to photon cranio-spinal radiotherapy (28%), while central hypothyroidism, growth hormone deficiency and adrenal insufficiency incidence rates were similar between the groups ( 117 ). It seems that proton conformal radiotherapy has advantages over conventional photon therapy for children with gliomas. Depending on the tumor location, it can spare the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. There was only 1 patient with endocrinopathy in the 14 irradiated children in the low (radiation dose less than 12 Gy) or intermediate endocrine risk groups (radiation dose 12-40Gy) ( 115 ). A study on the effects of proton radiotherapy in a large group of 189 pediatric and young adult patients treated for brain tumors showed that the rate of any pituitary hormone deficiency at four years was 48.8% ( 118 ). The incidence of hormone deficiencies was strongly associated with the dose of radiation and the age at time of treatment, with children being especially sensitive. The most frequent endocrine disorders according to the level of irradiation (< 20 Gy, 20-40 Gy, and 40 Gy) were as follows: GH deficiency (9%, 40%, and 79%), followed by TSH deficiency (4%, 25%, and 43%), ACTH deficiency (4%, 4%, and 18%), and gonadotropin deficiency (0%, 3%, and 14%) ( 118 ). Children with brain tumors treated with combined conventional plus proton beam radiotherapy received a higher radiation dose and developed neuroendocrine dysfunction sooner (47% of patients after mean time of 0.33 year), compared with children treating with proton beam radiotherapy only (33% of patients after mean time of 1.17 years) ( 119 ). In the future the late consequences of new radiation techniques should be more completely defined. Further studies are needed to investigate longer-term side effects of proton radiotherapy and confirm whether this technique of radiation and lower radiation doses with proton radiotherapy will change the risk for neuroendocrine dysfunction and secondary malignancy. New Planning and Dose Delivery Techniques Cranial radiotherapy has evolved with the development of new planning and dose delivery techniques of photons (intensity-modulated radiotherapy, volumetric-modulated arc radiotherapy) and proton beam radiotherapy ( 16 , 120 ). These new planning and dose delivery techniques allow increasingly
