Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


planning and dose delivery techniques of photons (intensity-modulated radiotherapy, volumetric-modulated arc radiotherapy) and proton beam radiotherapy ( 16 , 120 ). These new planning and dose delivery techniques allow increasingly precise delivery of irradiation with reduction of the dose to surrounding neurovascular and brain structures, especially hypothalamic-pituitary axis and hippocampus ( 34 , 120 - 122 ). Modern techniques of intensity-modulated proton therapy are able to produce acceptable cranio-spinal irradiation plans, avoid important intracranial structures (hypothalamus, pituitary and hippocampus receive 50% reduced dose of irradiation) and improve patient quality of life ( 122 ). Patients with somatotroph adenoma that had not achieved complete remission after surgery and medical therapy, treated with fractionated intensity-modulated radiotherapy, developed hypopituitarism in 28.3% of cases, after the median follow-up time of 36 months (range, 6-105.5 months), similar to stereotactic radiosurgery ( 121 ). In this study, only age below 33 years was a significant predictor of radiation-induced hypopituitarism. Modern radiotherapeutic technique such as volumetric-modulated arc therapy, with a sparing approach of both hippocampus and hypothalamus-pituitary axis might be a promising option for the patients undergoing whole-brain radiotherapy ( 50 ). The aim of this approach is to reduce dose application to these brain areas and to reduce common side effects (cognitive impairment and neuroendocrine dysfunction). A combined sparing approach involving both hippocampus and hypothalamo-pituitary axis using volumetric modulated arc therapy allows simultaneous dose reduction (less than 50% of the prescribed dose to the target) to these functional brain areas without compromised target coverage ( 50 ). Even in patients with brain metastasis requiring whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT), protection of the hypothalamo-pituitary axis during WBRT may be unlikely to compromise the tumor recurrence rate, because the rarity of brain metastasis in the hypothalamo-pituitary area ( 123 ). The selection of the radio-therapeutic method is based on the tumor size, distance from the optic structures and local invasion ( 124 ). SRS is reserved for tumors less than 3cm or small remnants in the cavernous sinus, located more than 3-5 mm away from the optic structures and the dose to the optic chiasm should not exceed 8 Gy. Fractionated radio-therapeutic methods are used for large pituitary tumors, or those which invade the optic nerves. Hypo-fractionated SRS (in 2-5 sessions) has been used for perioptic tumors. New radiation technology including intensity-modulated proton therapy (IMPT), proton-based stereotactic radiosurgery, and FLASH-proton therapy (delivery of very high doses of radiation in
