Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


2-5 sessions) has been used for perioptic tumors. New radiation technology including intensity-modulated proton therapy (IMPT), proton-based stereotactic radiosurgery, and FLASH-proton therapy (delivery of very high doses of radiation in fractions of a second), may provide in the future efficient control of the primary tumor with decrease of long-term complications ( 110 ). Prospective studies on endocrine and neurologic outcome are required to establish the long-term morbidity, neuroendocrine and cognitive sequelae. Strategies for Precise Radioprotection It is still a challenge how to protect the normal tissue from radiation-induced damage. There are studies on several agents which could protect the normal cells from radiation-induced damage with no affecting the radiation-induced killing of the tumor cells (memantine hydrochloride, amifosine, antioxidants). Recently published study on MitoQ, a mitochondria-targeted antioxidant, showed a good neuro-protective effect of this antioxidant in preclinical studies ( 125 ). MitoQ is absorbed to the inner mitochondrial membrane, affects mitochondrial respiration and induces selective protective autophagy among radiated normal cells ( 125 ). Tumor cells rely on aerobic glycolysis, mitochondria-independent energy supply pathway and are not protected due to the absence of autophagy. SCREENING FOR NEUROENDOCRINE DYSFUNCTION FOLLOWING CRANIAL RADIOTHERAPY Recently, recommendations for screening for hypopituitarism after cranial radiotherapy were suggested ( 13 , 63 , 112 , 126 , 127 ). According to this approach, clinical evaluation, baseline pituitary hormone assessment, and dynamic testing for GH and ACTH deficiency should begin one year after cranial radiotherapy ( Table 5 ). Clinical examination of children (including linear growth and pubertal staging) should be done every 6 to 12 months until final height is attained, and then yearly thereafter ( 13 , 63 ). In patients at risk for central precocious puberty, pubertal development should be monitored every 6 months until age 9 years in girls and 10 years in boys ( 13 ). If results of the assessment are normal, reassessment should be done every 2-4 years until at least 10 years following radiation. GH testing should be done only in patients who are good candidates for GH replacement therapy (keeping in mind the safety in underlying malignancy). It is also recommended to perform an endocrine assessment at 1 year after radiotherapy in patients treated for non-pituitary intracranial neoplasms, since they also may develop hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunctions ( 128 ). Table 5. Screening for Hypothalamic-Pituitary Dysfunction View in own window DYSFUNCTION Clinical data Basal analysis Dynamic test GH deficiency Growth velocity
