Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


they also may develop hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunctions ( 128 ). Table 5. Screening for Hypothalamic-Pituitary Dysfunction View in own window DYSFUNCTION Clinical data Basal analysis Dynamic test GH deficiency Growth velocity (children) IGF-I ITT, glucagon, clonidine (children) FSH/LH deficiency Pubertal staging FSH, LH, estradiol (female), testosterone (male) GnRH TSH deficiency Clinical examination TSH, FT4 TRH ACTH deficiency Clinical examination Cortisol ITT, Synacthen Hyperprolactinemia PRL Precocious puberty Pubertal stage FSH, LH, estradiol (female), testosterone (male) Somatotroph Axis Two stimulation tests for estimating GH secretion are required in the case of isolated GHD, while in patients with multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies there is no need for formal testing to establish a diagnosis of GH deficiency. Interpretation of results for the GH stimulatory tests following cranial radiation may be complicated because of the different mechanisms governing GH release during the gold standard, the insulin tolerance test (ITT), and other tests (arginine+GHRH and GHRH+GHRP-6 test in the past). In some cases, the results of different GH stimulatory tests may be discordant ( 75 , 129 , 130 ). The hypothalamus is more sensitive to radiation-induced injury compared with pituitary. Provocative tests which directly stimulate the somatotrophs (GHRH) may give false negative results in the early years after radiotherapy ( 131 ). Failing to pass the hypoglycemia test (ITT) is more common after radiation than to other stimulatory tests but may not necessarily reflect GH deficiency ( 132 - 135 ). It has been suggested that lower radiation doses (<40 Gy) predominantly cause hypothalamic damage with GHRH deficiency and subsequent somatotroph atrophy. In cases with robust response to ITT it is suggested to repeat screening at four years, while in cases with borderline response to this test, it should be repeated at two years ( 126 ). IGF-1 levels may be useful in screening for severe GH deficiency in children and adults ( 63 ). However, in childhood cancer survivors exposed to cranial radiotherapy, it is recommended against relying solely on serum IGF-I levels to make the diagnosis of GH deficiency ( 52 , 60 , 63 , 136 ). Recently published study of 41 survivors of childhood brain tumors treated with proton and photon irradiation and followed for 14.8 years showed low diagnostic value of IGF-1 and high prevalence of undiagnosed GH deficiency (50%) ( 60 ). Meta analysis of 15 studies with 477 childhood cancer survivors showed the same diagnostic accuracy of various dynamic
