Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


IGF-1 and high prevalence of undiagnosed GH deficiency (50%) ( 60 ). Meta analysis of 15 studies with 477 childhood cancer survivors showed the same diagnostic accuracy of various dynamic tests (ITT, GHRH, GHRH plus arginine, levodopa, clonidine) for GH deficiency in childhood cancer survivors as in other causes of GH deficiency ( 52 ). In children with growth failure, risk factors and comorbidities, in which the GH stimulatory test may be uncomfortable, an evidence-based prediction model to diagnose GH deficiency was proposed ( 137 ). In the large cohort of 770 children the authors identified clinically relevant risk factors for GH deficiency (among them cranial radiotherapy ≥18 Gy), to build a clinical prediction model for GH deficiency, a mathematical and machine-learning approach to avoid GH stimulatory testing in children with growth failure and comorbidities ( 137 ). The specificity of their prediction rule for GH deficiency without need for pharmacological stimulation tests in children with risk factors was 99.2%. Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Gonadal Axis Low radiation dose (˂ 18Gy) in pre-pubertal children may cause premature activation of hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis leading to central precocious puberty, mostly in girls, due to loss of neurons with inhibitory γ-aminobutyric acid ( 30 , 31 , 81 , 138 , 139 ). Higher radiation doses may cause central hypogonadism with a cumulative incidence of 20-50% on long-term follow-up ( 4 , 28 , 44 , 47 , 77 , 78 , 83 ). Gonadotroph deficiency is defined as low or normal gonadotropin levels and low plasma testosterone in men and amenorrhea with low plasma estradiol in premenopausal women (˂50 years old). Hyperprolactinemia Hyperprolactinemia may develop after cranial radiotherapy in 20-50% of patients and indicates hypothalamic damage and reduced inhibitory dopamine activity ( 4 , 30 , 31 , 134 ). Elevated prolactin level is mostly seen in young females after high dose cranial irradiation (> 50Gy) ( 13 , 44 , 47 , 77 , 78 , 140 ). Elevated prolactin levels may be asymptomatic, without clinical significance or may cause central hypogonadism ( 78 ). Elevated prolactin levels may decline and normalize during follow-up due to radiation-induced reduction of the pituitary lactotroph cells ( 28 ). Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis and Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis are more radioresistant than the GH and gonadotropin axes. Corticotroph deficiency is defined as low morning serum cortisol (normal range for morning serum cortisol, 7– 25 mg/dl; for evening
