Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


axis are more radioresistant than the GH and gonadotropin axes. Corticotroph deficiency is defined as low morning serum cortisol (normal range for morning serum cortisol, 7– 25 mg/dl; for evening serum cortisol, 2–14 mg/dl) and a normal or low serum ACTH level. Thyrotroph deficiency is based on a low free T4 with normal or decreased TSH. ACTH and TSH deficiency may occur after a large dose of cranial radiation (>50 Gy) used for nasopharyngeal cancer and skull base tumor, in 30-60% of patients after long-term follow-up ( 4 , 28 , 30 , 31 , 47 , 77 , 80 ). Central hypocorticism and hypothyroidism may be subclinical and diagnosed by stimulatory tests (ITT, glucagon, Synacthen test and TRH test). OTHER CHRONIC COMPLICATIONS OF CRANIAL IRRADIATION Cerebrovascular Insult (Stroke) The large Dutch study which included 806 patients with nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas (456 treated with cranial radiotherapy) reported the increased incidence of cerebrovascular events in men treated with cranial radiotherapy (hazard ratio 2.99, 95% CI 1.31-6.79) ( 20 ). Radiation-Induced Ocular Complications Radiation-induced ocular complications include cataract, dry eye syndrome, corneal erosions, perforations and scarring, as well as radiation retinopathy, neuropathy and neo-vascular glaucoma ( 141 ). The use of fractionated robotic radiotherapy (Cyber Knife system) on benign para-sellar tumor located close to the optic pathway is safe and does not impair the structure and function of the anterior and posterior segments of the eye during the 24-month observation ( 142 ). Only the thinning of the retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) was described, but it did not impair visual function and it did not correlate with the dose delivered to the optic pathway. Single doses lower than 8–10 Gy are considered safe in patients undergoing single and multi-fraction stereotactic radiotherapy ( 143 ). The dose per fraction received seems to be the most important factor and should not exceed 1.9 Gy. Second CNS Tumor The occurrence of a second intracranial neoplasm is a rare complication after radiotherapy, including the development of radiation-associated intracranial neoplasm and malignant transformation of a benign lesion ( 22 , 23 , 144 , 145 ). Tumors such as meningioma, glioma or sarcoma are the most prevalent secondary neoplasms after cranial irradiation. The systematic review of 21 studies in children and adults who received cranial radiation for prophylactic or therapeutic purposes showed a 7-10-fold increase in subsequent CNS tumors in children, with a latency period ranging
