Hypopituitarism Following Cranial Radiotherapy
KEYWORDS: radiotherapy, pituitary, pubmed, patients, deficiency, radiation, dose, hypopituitarism, years, brain, cranial, radiosurgery, hormone, stereotactic, free


21 studies in children and adults who received cranial radiation for prophylactic or therapeutic purposes showed a 7-10-fold increase in subsequent CNS tumors in children, with a latency period ranging from 5.5 to 30 years (glioma developed 5-10 years and meningioma around 15 years after radiation) ( 22 ). Additional investigation is needed on the risk of radiation-induced secondary tumors in adults, because some studies showed no increased risk, while other studies reported a higher risk for secondary CNS tumors with a latency period from 5 to 34 years ( 22 ). A large study that included 8917 patients from the Pfizer International Metabolic Database (KIMS) reported an increased incidence for de novo brain tumors in patients treated for pituitary/sellar lesions ( 23 ). The risk of developing a malignant brain tumor increased by 2-4-fold and meningioma by 1.6-fold with every 10 years of younger age at radiotherapy, irrespectively of the type of radiotherapy (conventional vs stereotactic) ( 23 ). Recently published retrospective, multicenter study of 3679 patients with long-term follow-up after radiotherapy (recipients of proton beam or stereotactic radiotherapy were excluded) for pituitary adenoma and craniopharyngioma reported the cumulative probability of second brain tumor of 0.9% after 10-years follow-up and 4% after 20-year follow-up ( 146 ). Medial latency period for secondary malignant tumor (glioblastoma, astrocytoma) was 8.3 years, and for secondary benign tumor (meningioma, acoustic neuroma, neurocytoma, low-grade glioma) was 17.7 years. The authors reported that older age at pituitary tumor detection was a predictor of developing a second brain tumor. Patients with second malignancy in the region of previous radiotherapy often present with aggressive clinical course and disease resistant to various treatment modalities several years after radiotherapy ( 145 ). Sarcoma of the sellar region is a rare malignant complication after radiotherapy of the pituitary tumor. In a systematic review of 94 sarcoma of the sellar region, one third was associated with radiotherapy and developed after median time of 10.5 years and mean radiation dose 47.5 ± 5.05 Gy ( 147 ). Ionizing radiation is a known risk factor for sarcomatous transformation of fibrous dysplasia of the bone in patients with McCune-Albright syndrome. It is important to differentiate correctly radionecrotic lesion on contrast MRI from brain neoplasia ( 148 ). Brain radionecrosis is a neuronal death, vascular endothelial damage and demyelination lesions after high-dose radiotherapy and it can be differentiated from a tumor by molecular imaging techniques
