Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


ABSTRACT Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) is among the commonest urological abnormalities affecting the aging male. The cause of the increase in prostatic volume is multifactorial, but current research has implicated hormonal aberrations. Clinical assessment of the patient is integral to determining the optimal treatment strategy. Exclusion of prostatic cancer and complications of BPH are critical prior to the commencement of conservative and non-invasive strategies. Recently, the introduction of pharmaceutical agents has changed the landscape of management of BPH. Alpha-blockers, 5-alpha reductase inhibitors, and phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors provide significant symptomatic improvement for BPH, particularly when used in combination. Invasive surgical therapies remain the gold standard for refractory and complicated BPH disease. Advances in technology have provided new methods to perform prostatectomy including: bipolar resection, laser resection, ablation, enucleation or vaporization. Newer, minimally invasive measures have been introduced in an attempt to limit patient morbidity, specifically operative complications, sexual and urinary function. While results are promising, these emerging therapies have limited long-term data. The purpose of the current chapter is to provide an overview of the current knowledge of benign prostatic hyperplasia. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The prostate is an organ linked inextricably to the endocrine system. During the development of the prostate, the epithelium and mesenchyme are under the control of testicular androgens, and interact to form an organized secretory organ. Furthermore, the endocrine system plays a key mechanistic role in many prostate diseases, and many therapies for prostatic diseases are aimed at the manipulation of the endocrine system. The gland resides in the true anatomical pelvis and forms the most proximal aspect of the urethra. It has been stated that the prostate gland is the male organ most commonly afflicted with either benign or malignant neoplasms (1) . Therefore, it is an organ with which every physician and surgeon needs to be familiar. We will focus on BPH, the most prevalent of benign disorders affecting the prostate. EMBRYOLOGY The development, growth and cytodifferentiation of the prostate are androgen-dependent and occur via embryonic cell-to-cell interactions between the mesenchyme (undifferentiated connective tissue) that induce epithelial development while the epithelium induces mesenchymal differentiation (2) . In the developing prostate, urogenital sinus mesenchyme acting under the influence of testicular androgens induces ductal morphogenesis, the expression of epithelial androgen receptors, regulates epithelial proliferation and specifies the expression of prostatic-lobe specific secretory proteins.
