Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


sinus mesenchyme acting under the influence of testicular androgens induces ductal morphogenesis, the expression of epithelial androgen receptors, regulates epithelial proliferation and specifies the expression of prostatic-lobe specific secretory proteins. The developing prostatic epithelium reciprocally induces the differentiation and morphological patterning of smooth muscle in the urogenital sinus mesenchyme (2) . In the prostate, it is traditional to consider androgens as promoters of growth, while activin and tumor growth factor-beta1 (TFG-β1) are regarded as potent growth inhibitors. These factors do not act independently, however, and cross-talk occurs between the signaling pathways at a sub-cellular level (3) . The first step in development of the prostate begins with the urogenital sinus mesenchyme signaling to the epithelium, causing it to form epithelial buds. Androgens then induce bud elongation, branching and epithelial differentiation (3) . Prenatally, the androgen receptor (AR) is expressed only in the mesenchyme, not in the epithelium. Initial epithelial development is thus controlled via paracrine interactions where activation of stromal androgen receptors stimulates growth factors and induces growth in adjacent prostatic epithelial cells (4) . At the 5 th week, the mesonephric (Wolffian) duct opens onto the lateral surface of the urogenital sinus and gives rise to the ureteric bud ( Figure 1 ). By the 7 th week, the growth of the urogenital sinus involves the progressive incorporation of the terminal part of the mesonephric duct into the wall of the urogenital sinus. They eventually open into the Mullerian tubercle that is the future verumontanum of the prostate. At their termination the paramesonephric (Mullerian) ducts fuse and are surrounded by the mesonephric ducts. At 10 weeks, prostatic epithelial buds begin to arise from the circumference of the urethra, around the orifice of the paramesonephric ducts. They develop predominantly on the posterior surface of the junction of the mesonephric ducts, forming two concentrations, above and below them (5) . Figure 1. The embryological origin and development of the prostatic urethra and the prostate, adapted from Delmas (5) . During the fetal period at about 6 months, multiple outgrowths arise from the prostatic portion of the urethra, particularly the posterior surface of the urethra, and grow into the surrounding mesenchyme. Glandular epithelium of the prostate differentiates from the endodermal cells of the urethra, and outgrowths of glandular epithelium protrude into the associated mesenchyme differentiate into the dense stroma and smooth muscle fibers of the prostate. In contrast, the prostatic glandular epithelium
