Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


the urethra, and outgrowths of glandular epithelium protrude into the associated mesenchyme differentiate into the dense stroma and smooth muscle fibers of the prostate. In contrast, the prostatic glandular epithelium outgrowths situated on the anterior surface regress and are replaced by fibromuscular tissue. This region becomes the future anterior commissure of the prostate 5,6). ANATOMY According McNeal’s model of the prostate (7) , four different anatomical zones may be distinguished that have anatomo-clinical correlation ( Figure 2 ): 1. The peripheral zone : is the area forming the postero-inferior aspect of the gland and represents 70% of the prostatic volume. It is the zone where the majority (60-70%) of prostate cancers form. 2. The central zone : represents 25% of the prostate volume and contains the ejaculatory ducts. It is the zone which usually gives rise to inflammatory processes (e.g., prostatitis). 3. The transitional zone : this represents only 5% of the total prostatic volume. This is the zone where benign prostatic hypertrophy occurs and consists of two lateral lobes together with periurethral glands. Approximately 25% of prostatic adenocarcinomas also occur it this zone. 4. The anterior zone : predominantly fibromuscular with no glandular structures. The prostate weighs approximately 20g by the age of 20 and has the shape of an inverted cone, with the base at the bladder neck and the apex at the urogenital diaphragm (8) . The prostatic urethra does not follow a straight line as it runs through the center of the prostate gland but it is actually bent anteriorly approximately 35 degrees at the verumontanum (where the ejaculatory ducts join the prostate) (9) . Figure 2. 1= Peripheral Zone, 2= Central Zone, 3= Transitional Zone, 4= Anterior Fibromuscular Zone. B= Bladder, U= Urethra, SV= Seminal Vesicle (adapted from Algaba ( 10 )). HISTOLOGY The prostate consists of stromal and epithelial elements. Smooth muscle cells, fibroblasts and endothelial cells are in the stroma and the epithelial cells are secretory cells, basal cells and neuroendocrine cells ( Figure 3 ). Figure 3. Histology of a prostate gland affected by benign prostatic hyperplasia. The columnar secretory cells are tall with pale to clear cytoplasm. These cells stain positively with prostate-specific antigen (PSA) ( 11 ). Basal cells are less differentiated than secretory cells and are devoid of secretory products such as PSA (12) . Finally, neuroendocrine cells are irregularly distributed throughout ducts and acini, with a greater proportion
