Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


less differentiated than secretory cells and are devoid of secretory products such as PSA (12) . Finally, neuroendocrine cells are irregularly distributed throughout ducts and acini, with a greater proportion in the ducts. The prostate has the greatest number of neuroendocrine cells of any of the genitourinary organs (13) . Glands are structured with open and closed cell types with the open type facing the inside of the duct having a monitoring role over its contents. Most cells contain serotonin, but other peptides that are present include somatostatin, calcitonin, gene-related peptides and katacalcin (11) . The cells co-express PSA and prostatic acid phosphatase. Their function is unclear, but it is speculated that these cells are involved with local regulation by paracrine release of peptides (11) . Prostatic ducts and acini are distinguished by architectural pattern at low power magnification. The prostate becomes more complex with ducts and branching glands arranged in lobules and surrounded by stroma with advancing age. Figure 4. Diagram outlining the structure of the prostate gland with regard to ducts, glandular cells and their relationship to blood vessels. PHYSIOLOGY At present, there is only limited knowledge of all of the secretory products of the prostate and how these relate to reproduction and infertility. However, the main role of the prostate as a male reproductive organ is to produce prostatic fluid that accounts for up to 30 per cent of the semen volume. Prostatic fluid promotes sperm motility, and it is a milky, alkaline fluid containing PSA, citric acid, calcium, zinc, acid phosphatase and fibrinolysin among its many constituents ( Table 1 ) (14) . During ejaculation, alpha-adrenergic stimulation of prostatic smooth muscle expresses seminal fluid containing sperm from the ampulla of the vas deferens into the posterior urethra (15). Interestingly, abnormal growth of the prostate is only experienced by humans and dogs, and why other mammals are spared is a mystery (16) . Table 1. The Composition of Human Semen (adapted from Ganong (17) ) View in own window Color White, opalescent Specific Gravity 1.028 pH 7.35-7.50 Volume 3ml SPECIFIC COMPONENTS OF SEMEN Gland/Site Volume in ejaculate Features Testis/Epididymis 0.15ml (5%) Average approximately spermatozoa 80 million/ml Seminal Vesicle 1.5-2ml (50-65%) Fructose (1.5-6.5 mg/ml) phosphorylcholine ergothioneine, ascorbic acid, flavins prostaglandins, bicarbonate Prostate 0.6-0.9ml (20-30%) Spermine, citric acid, cholesterol, phospholipids, fibrinolysin, fibrinogenase, zinc, acid phosphatase, prostate-specific antigen Bulbourethral Glands < 0.15ml (<5%) Clear mucus ENDOCRINE CONTROL OF PROSTATIC GROWTH
