Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


flavins prostaglandins, bicarbonate Prostate 0.6-0.9ml (20-30%) Spermine, citric acid, cholesterol, phospholipids, fibrinolysin, fibrinogenase, zinc, acid phosphatase, prostate-specific antigen Bulbourethral Glands < 0.15ml (<5%) Clear mucus ENDOCRINE CONTROL OF PROSTATIC GROWTH Intraprostatic signaling systems are important for the regulation of cell proliferation and extracellular matrix production in the prostatic stroma. Central to this premise is the balance between factors such as TGF-β1, that induces extracellular matrix production, suppresses collagen breakdown and cell proliferation and factors such as fibroblast growth factor 2 and insulin-like growth factors that are mitogenic in the stromal compartment (18) . Other endocrine pathways are being investigated, and there is a growing body of evidence suggesting an abnormality in the insulin-like growth factor axis is playing a role in the pathogenesis of BPH (19) . Testosterone Prostatic epithelial cells express the androgen receptor (20) . From the beginning of embryonic differentiation to pubertal maturation and beyond, androgens are a prerequisite for the normal development and physiological control of the prostate (21) . Androgens help maintain the normal metabolic and secretory functions of the prostate, and they are also implicated in the development of BPH and prostate cancer. Androgens do not act in isolation, and other hormones and growth factors are being investigated (22) . Androgens also interact with prostate stromal cells which release soluble paracrine factors that induce growth and development of the prostatatic epithelium (4) . These paracrine pathways might be critical in regulating the balance between proliferation and apoptosis of prostate epithelial cells in the adult (22) . The appropriate balance between testosterone and its 5-alpha reduced metabolites is key to normal prostate physiology (note the metabolic pathways for androgen metabolism are described in Endotext, Endocrinology of Male Reproduction, Androgen Physiology, Pharmacology and Abuse, D Handelsman). The metabolism of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and its aromatization to estradiol are recognized as the key events in prostatic steroid response. Figure 5. Conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone (DHT) by 5alpha reductase Testosterone, to be maximally active in the prostate, must be converted to DHT by the enzyme 5-alpha reductase ( Figure 5 ) (23) . DHT has a much greater affinity for the androgen receptor than does testosterone, and DHT accumulates in the prostate even when circulating concentrations of testosterone are low ( 24 , 25 ). Based on rat studies, DHT is about twice as potent as testosterone at equivalent androgen concentrations (26) . Therefore, prostatic DHT
