Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


of testosterone are low ( 24 , 25 ). Based on rat studies, DHT is about twice as potent as testosterone at equivalent androgen concentrations (26) . Therefore, prostatic DHT concentrations may remain similar to those in young and elderly men, despite the fact that serum testosterone concentrations generally decline with age (23) . In the prostate, the total level of testosterone is 0.4 ng/g and the total of DHT is 4.5 ng/g (27) . The total serum concentration of testosterone in the blood is approximately 10 times higher than DHT (17) . Circulating DHT, by virtue of its low serum plasma concentration and tight binding to plasma proteins, is of diminished importance as a circulating androgen affecting prostate growth (16) . Intra-prostatic androgens are remarkably independent of serum concentrations (28), and circulating androgen concentrations often do not correlate with intraprostatic concentrations (29) . Estrogen A role for estrogens in the prostate pathology of the ageing male appears likely with accumulating evidence that estrogens, alone or in combination with androgens, are involved in inducing aberrant growth and/or malignant change. Animal models have supported this hypothesis in the canine model, where estrogens “sensitize” the ageing dog prostate to the effects of androgen (30) . The evidence is less clear in humans. Estrogens in the male are predominantly the products of peripheral aromatization of testicular and adrenal androgens (31) . While the testicular and adrenal production of androgens declines with ageing, concentrations of total plasma estradiol do not decline. This has been ascribed to the increase in fat mass with ageing (the primary site of peripheral aromatization) and to an increased aromatase activity with ageing. However, free or bioavailable estrogens may decline due to an increase in sex hormone binding globulin, which could translate to lower intraprostatic concentrations of the hormone. The potentially adverse effects of estrogens on the prostate might be due to a shift in the intra-prostatic estrogen: androgen ratio with ageing. Estrogen, which acts through estrogen receptors (ER) alpha and beta, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of benign and malignant human prostatic tumors (32-34) . As stated above, BPH is thought to originate in the transitional zone (TZ) and prostate cancer the peripheral zone (PZ) of the prostate. Receptor studies have found ER-alpha and ER-beta types distributed in human normal and hyperplastic prostate tissues, using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. ER-alpha expression was restricted to stromal cells of
