Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


Receptor studies have found ER-alpha and ER-beta types distributed in human normal and hyperplastic prostate tissues, using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. ER-alpha expression was restricted to stromal cells of the PZ. In contrast, ER-beta was expressed in the stromal and epithelial cells of PZ as well as TZ. These findings suggest that estrogen might play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of BPH through ER-beta (33) . Investigations are ongoing and could result in a new range of therapies directed against BPH and prostate cancer. Dietary phytoestrogens (in soy and other vegetables) or selective estrogen receptor modulators are currently being investigated with regard to their role in the development of BPH and prostate cancer (31) . Such ER modifiers might oppose some of the effects of natural estrogen by modulating ER receptors, thus reducing the local impact of androgens that need active ER receptors, effectively making them anti-androgenic compounds, but this hypothesis requires more investigation (35) . BENIGN PROSTATIC HYPERPLASIA (BPH) BPH is an age-related and progressive neoplastic condition of the prostate gland (36) . BPH can only be diagnosed definitively by histology. BPH in the clinical setting is characterized by lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS, see below and Table 2 ). There is no causal relationship between BPH and prostate cancer (37) . Clinically apparent BPH has a significant effect on quality of life, particularly its effects on nocturia and bladder dysfunction. The overall prevalence of BPH is 10.3%, with an overall annual incidence rate of 15 per 1000 man-years, increasing with age (3 per 1000 at age 45-49 years, to 38 per 1000 at 75-79 years). For a symptom-free man at age 46, the 30-year risk of clinical BPH is 45% (38) . The true prevalence and incidence of clinical BPH will vary according to the criteria used to describe the condition; however, it has been estimated that the prevalence of BPH is rising due to increases in modifiable risk factors such as obesity (39) . It is crucial to acknowledge that LUTS can exist without signs of BPH – as the symptoms can be caused by variations in the sympathetic nervous stimulation of prostatic smooth muscle, variability of prostatic anatomy (viz., enlarged median lobe of the prostate), and the variable effects of bladder physiology from the obstruction and aging. There have been several studies demonstrating the fact that clinical BPH is a progressive disease. The Olmsted
