Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


prostate), and the variable effects of bladder physiology from the obstruction and aging. There have been several studies demonstrating the fact that clinical BPH is a progressive disease. The Olmsted county study (40) showed that with each year there were deteriorations in symptom scores, peak flow rates, and increases in prostate volumes based on transrectal ultrasound scanning (TRUS). The risk of acute urinary retention (AUR) increased with flow rates below 12 ml/sec and with glands greater than 30ml. Studies have also demonstrated that those with larger prostates (>40 ml) and with serum PSA greater than 1.4 ng/ml were more likely to develop acute urinary retention (41) . Treatment, however, has changed with the advent of effective non-surgical therapies. Between 1992-1998 there has been a significant lengthening of the period between first diagnosis of LUTS secondary to clinical BPH and surgery, associated with the earlier and increased use of specific medical treatments (42) . From the patients perspective, the goals of therapy are to improve quality of life, reduce symptoms, and avoid surgery while ensuring safety from the complications of BPH (43) . Risk Factors for BPH The only clearly defined risk factors for BPH are age and the presence of circulating androgens. BPH does not develop in men castrated before the age of forty (44) , but other factors may influence the prevalence of clinical disease. These include the following: GENETICS Clinical BPH appears to run in families. If one or more first degree relatives are affected, an individual is at greater risk of being afflicted by the disorder ( 45 ). In a study by Sanda et al (46) , the hazard-function ratio for surgically treated BPH amongst first degree relatives of the BPH patients as compared to controls was 4.2 (95% CI, 1.7 to 10.2). The incidence of BPH is highest and starts earliest in blacks than Caucasians and is lowest in Asians (37) . Interestingly, despite having larger prostate glands, the age-adjusted risk of BPH was the same for blacks as for whites (RR = 1.0, 95% Cl 0.8-1.2) (47) . Furthermore, in an Asian population, men presenting with BPH are likely to have higher symptom scores than blacks or Caucasians (48) . DIET Diet has been reported as a risk factor for the development of BPH. Large amounts of vegetables and soy products in the diet may explain the lower rate of BPH in Asia when
