Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


reported as a risk factor for the development of BPH. Large amounts of vegetables and soy products in the diet may explain the lower rate of BPH in Asia when compared to countries with Western, non-Asian diets. In particular, certain vegetables and soy are said to be high in phytoestrogens, such as genestin, that have anti-androgenic effects by an undetermined mechanism on the prostate in vitro (49) . Studying migrant populations with their heterogeneous environmental exposures increases the probabilities of identifying potential risk factors for BPH. Therefore, the association of alcohol, diet, and other lifestyle factors with obstructive uropathy was investigated in a cohort of 6581 Japanese-American men, examined and interviewed from 1971 to 1975 in Hawaii. After 17 years of follow-up, 846 incident cases of surgically treated obstructive uropathy were diagnosed with BPH. Total alcohol intake was inversely associated with obstructive uropathy (p < 0.0001). The relative risk was 0.64 (95% confidence interval: 0.52-0.78) for men drinking at least 25 grams of alcohol per month compared with nondrinkers. Among the 4 sources of alcohol, a significant inverse association was present for beer, wine, and sake, but not for spirits. No association was found with education, number of marriages, or cigarette smoking. Increased beef intake was weakly related to an increased risk (p = 0.047), while no association was found with the consumption of 32 other food items in the study (50) . METABOLIC SYNDROME There is a growing body of evidence supporting the association between obesity or metabolic syndrome and the development of BPH. The risk of BPH appears to be independently associated with the individual components of BPH including central obesity, hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance and dyslipidemia. Despite this, the precise causation of this association has not been clearly identified. Recent studies have suggested that in this setting, BPH is a consequence of the metabolic syndrome-associated metabolic derangements, altered sex hormone concentrations and lowered sex-hormone binding globulin concentrations (51) . One study found in a cohort of 415 men, that indicators of metabolic syndrome (abnormal concentrations of insulin resistance, subclinical inflammatory state, and sex hormone globulin changes) were significantly associated with increased risk of BPH ( 52 ). Mechanisms associated with metabolic syndrome have been discussed as possible targets for future therapies for BPH ( 53 ). CHRONIC INFLAMMATION There is strong evidence to suggest that inflammation and inflammatory markers are involved in the pathogenesis of BPH. Inflammation within
