Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


for future therapies for BPH ( 53 ). CHRONIC INFLAMMATION There is strong evidence to suggest that inflammation and inflammatory markers are involved in the pathogenesis of BPH. Inflammation within the prostate can be caused by several factors including bacteria, virus, autoimmune disease, diet, metabolic syndrome, and hormone imbalances (53) . This leads to the activation of inflammatory cells, release of cytokines, expression of growth factors, and ultimately abnormal proliferation of epithelial and stromal cells of the prostate. Proliferation induces a cycle of hypoxia and recruitment of more growth factors resulting in increased prostate volume and BPH ( 54 ). The REDUCE study of 8224 prostate biopsy samples of men with BPH found that 77.6% had cells of chronic inflammation on histology ( 55 ). Anti-inflammatory medications have been studied in combination with BPH medications. A meta-analysis of three randomized controlled trials (n=183) in this area found that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs improved IPSS scores by a mean of 2.89 points and increase peak urine flow by a mean of 0.89m/s ( 56 ). OTHER RISK FACTORS It has not been possible to delineate any other risk factors for BPH such as coronary artery disease, liver cirrhosis, or diabetes mellitus. Traditionally it has been believed that there is no causal relationship between malignant and benign prostatic hypertrophy (37) and recent data from large trials continue to support this premise (57) . Alternative theories have emerged but more data directly linking association with causality are required (58) . PATHOPHYSIOLOGY OF BPH Natural History BPH is a histological diagnosis, but its clinical manifestations occur after growth has occurred to such a degree and in such a strategic location within the gland, namely the transitional zone, that it impairs bladder emptying and results in LUTS. One can consider the natural history of BPH as involving two phases: i. The pathological or first phase of BPH is asymptomatic and involves a progression from microscopic to macroscopic BPH. Microscopic BPH will develop in almost all men if they live long enough but in only about half will progress to macroscopic BPH. This would suggest that additional factors are necessary to cause microscopic to progress to macroscopic BPH (59) . The pathological phase involves development of hyperplastic changes in the transitional zone of the prostate (60) . While there is wide variability in prostate growth rates at an individual level, prostate volume appears to increase steadily at
