Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


changes in the transitional zone of the prostate (60) . While there is wide variability in prostate growth rates at an individual level, prostate volume appears to increase steadily at about 1.6% per year in randomly selected community men (61) . ii. The clinical or second phase of BPH involves the progression from pathological to ‘clinical BPH’ that is synonymous with the development of LUTS. Only about one half of patients with macroscopic BPH progress to develop clinical BPH (59) . BPH consists of mechanical and dynamic components and it is these components that are responsible for the progression from pathological to clinical BPH (62) . In clinical BPH, the ratio of stroma to epithelium is 5:1 whereas in the case of asymptomatic hyperplasia the ratio is 2.7:1. A significant contribution is therefore made by stroma to the infravesical obstruction of BPH (63) . DISEASE MANIFESTATIONS OF BPH Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms (LUTS) Lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) are highly prevalent and the majority of LUTS in men is produced by BPH, but may be contributed to by a variety of conditions ( Figure 6 ). LUTS are traditionally divided into voiding or obstructive and storage or irritative symptoms ( Table 2 ). Voiding symptoms are more common, however it is storage symptoms that are most bothersome and have a greater impact on a patient's life ( 64 , 65 ). The prevalence of clinical BPH rises with age and approximately 25% of men age 40 or over will suffer from LUTS (66) . Figure 6. Interaction of the many factors involved in the pathogenesis of LUTS. Other causes of LUTS (top right) include all of the differential diagnoses included in Table 5 (see below). Table 2. Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms View in own window Voiding or Obstructive Symptoms Storage or Irritative Symptoms Hesitancy Poor stream Intermittent stream Straining to pass urine Prolonged micturition Sense of incomplete bladder emptying Terminal dribbling Urinary frequency Urgency Urge incontinence Nocturia In the past, LUTS suggestive of bladder outflow obstruction (BOO) secondary to BPH were referred to as ‘prostatism’, once other causes such as a urinary tract infection or prostate cancer were excluded. The pathology behind the symptoms was thought to be obstruction due to prostatic gland enlargement alone. However, it is now recognized that voiding/obstructive symptoms result from direct urinary flow obstruction whilst storage/irritative symptoms appear to be due to secondary bladder dysfunction
