Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


to prostatic gland enlargement alone. However, it is now recognized that voiding/obstructive symptoms result from direct urinary flow obstruction whilst storage/irritative symptoms appear to be due to secondary bladder dysfunction (67) . Thus, LUTs occurs after the prostate enlargement causes obstruction, and the bladder voiding is secondarily affected leading irritable symptoms ( Figure 7 ). Figure 7. Diagrammatic representation of BPH with the enlarged prostate transition zone causing obstruction of the prostatic urethra and the secondary changes in the bladder leading to hypertrophy of the detrusor muscle (copyright Nathan Lawrentschuk 2012). This concept has been further refined in that obstructive symptoms are thought to result not only from mechanical obstruction due to glandular enlargement, but also dynamic obstruction secondary to contraction of the smooth muscle of the prostate, urethra and bladder neck. This dynamic obstruction is a result of sympathetic nervous system mediated stimulation of alpha-1 adrenoceptors. Storage symptoms appear to be caused by detrusor instability related to detrusor muscle changes in response to obstruction, such as bladder wall hypertrophy and collagen deposition in the bladder ( 68 , 69 ). Adrenoceptors may be further sub-divided into alpha1A and alpha1D subtypes, with alpha1A predominant in the prostate and alpha 1D in the bladder. Thus, blockade of alpha1A may be necessary for reduction of obstruction whereas the blockade of alpha1D may be required to relieve storage symptoms (70) (see below). It has been suggested that the etiology of LUTS related to BPH is even more complex than outlined above, with extra-prostatic mechanisms such as bladder wall ischemia and changes in the central nervous system being implicated (71) . Normal lower urinary tract function is complex, and theoretically any disruption of the pathway for micturition ( Figure 8 below) may lead to LUTS (72) . It is worth noting the relationship between LUTS and sexual dysfunction, with sexual dysfunction being highly prevalent in men with LUTS (73). By sexual dysfunction, we refer to decreased libido, erectile dysfunction, decreased ejaculation and other ejaculation disorders. Kassabian (74) expands on the relationship and agrees with Leilefeld et al (75) in suggesting that the relationship is coincidental and both are common in the ageing male. Figure 8 - Normal micturition pathways (reproduced with permission from Physiology and pathophysiology of lower urinary tract symptoms, Drugs of Today, Vol 37, p. 7, Michel MC (72) ). COMPLICATIONS OF BPH The complications of BPH are summarized in Table 3
