Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


and pathophysiology of lower urinary tract symptoms, Drugs of Today, Vol 37, p. 7, Michel MC (72) ). COMPLICATIONS OF BPH The complications of BPH are summarized in Table 3 . Table 3. Common Complications of BPH View in own window Urinary retention Recurrent Urinary Tract Infections Bladder Calculi Hematuria Secondary bladder instability Renal Impairment Urinary Retention (Acute and Chronic) As the prostate volume increases with age, the likelihood of acute urinary retention (AUR) and symptom severity both increase while urinary flow rates fall. In one study of more than 2000 men, those with a maximum urinary flow rate (Qmax) <12 ml/s had a 4 times greater risk for AUR than did men with a Qmax >12ml/s (76) . AUR is usually painful and necessitates the insertion of a per urethral indwelling or suprapubic urinary catheter. If the urinary retention is not dealt with in a timely fashion, the detrusor muscle becomes distended and damaged, contributing to poor detrusor function and an inability to adequately empty the bladder. The retention of urine becomes painless over time, and the sequelae of retained urine such as recurrent UTI, calculi, and renal impairment may develop. Furthermore, a situation of overflow incontinence may develop whereby the bladder automatically empties once the volume reached exceeds its new, larger capacity. The passage of urine is typically uncontrolled, and this may often be the first presentation for someone with advanced BPH. The bladder remains full despite the emptying, which is only partial. In situations of chronic urinary retention, relieving the bladder outflow obstruction might not restore normal detrusor function. These patients often need to use intermittent self-catheterization or have permanent drainage to keep their bladder empty and to reduce damage to the upper urinary tract. Recurrent Lower Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) The best host defense against infection in the lower urinary tract might be normal flow of urine and bladder emptying. In BPH, bladder outflow obstruction results in disruption of this mechanism with retention and pooling of urine in the bladder, giving organisms the opportunity to multiply rather than be flushed out. Despite this logical assumption, there is little evidence in the literature to support this theory. Nevertheless, men with significant clinical BPH are probably at risk of UTI, and men with UTI should be assessed for signs of BPH. Bladder Calculi In developed countries, the most prevalent cause of bladder calculi is bladder outlet obstruction owing
