Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


of UTI, and men with UTI should be assessed for signs of BPH. Bladder Calculi In developed countries, the most prevalent cause of bladder calculi is bladder outlet obstruction owing to BPH (77) . Of those who undergo prostate surgery for BPH, approximately 2% of all patients are found to have bladder stones (78) . Stones occur in this situation due to urinary stasis combined with high urinary solute concentrations, which leads to crystal precipitation (79) . Chronic infection with urease-producing organisms may predispose to the development of stones and rarely stones pass from the upper tract to act as a nidus in the bladder (79) . Bladder calculi associated with BPH remains an absolute indication for transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) ( 80 , 81 ) because of the risk or recurrence of stone formation. However, the necessity of surgery is being challenged by the expanding use of medical management in treating BPH (81) . Hematuria The incidence of hematuria with BPH is uncertain, however; in a retrospective review of almost 4000 patients undergoing TURP, Mebust et al (80) noted that hematuria was an indication for surgery in 12% of patients. It is hypothesized that BPH, with its increased acinar and stromal cell proliferation, stimulates increased vascularity via angiogenesis. These new and prolific vessels may be easily disrupted leading to recurrent bleeding (82) . This is supported by Foley et al (83) who found the microvessel density to be higher in those patients with BPH having hematuria after histological studies. It is also hypothesized that 5-alpha reductase inhibitors might reduce angiogenesis and theoretically reduce the risk prostate bleeding. Finasteride has been suggested as an option in treating the problem of hematuria (84-86). Detrusor (Bladder) Instability The definition of detrusor instability is the development of a detrusor contraction which exceeds 15cm H 2 O at a bladder volume of less than 300ml (87) . Detrusor instability is not a specific term related to BPH, but implies LUTS secondary to detrusor pathology. These symptoms are normally storage related and consist of urgency, frequency, urge incontinence, and nocturia. In BPH, the normal dynamics of the bladder are altered due to detrusor muscle stretching due in turn to retention of urine and contraction against an obstructed outlet. Although not completely understood, some of the detrusor instability may be related to changes at the adrenoceptors level, rather than just from obstruction and its
