Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


contraction against an obstructed outlet. Although not completely understood, some of the detrusor instability may be related to changes at the adrenoceptors level, rather than just from obstruction and its consequences alone. In normal bladder physiology, beta-adrenoceptors are believed to be involved in the relaxation of the bladder during storage of urine (71) . In some patients, however, the administration of noradrenaline leads to contraction of the detrusor muscle which may be blocked by an alpha-1 adrenoceptor antagonist (88) . This implies the presence of alpha-adrenoceptors in the detrusor muscle in at least some patients. Furthermore, alpha-adrenoceptor antagonists have been shown to relieve storage and voiding symptoms in men without obstruction and storage symptoms in women ( 71 , 89 - 92 ). Alpha adrenoceptor subtypes in the human bladder are predominantly of the alpha1D and alpha1A type. In animal models, the alpha1D receptors become more abundant with bladder obstruction (93) , and it may be speculated that this is the case in humans and that these receptors, once up-regulated, play a role in storage symptoms (71) . Renal Insufficiency Renal insufficiency results from obstructive uropathy secondary to the bladder outlet obstruction of BPH. In an analysis of patients receiving treatment for BPH, 13.6% (range 0.3-30%) had renal insufficiency (78) . Certainly, an abnormal creatinine is an indication to further investigate the upper urinary tract with imaging. Obviously, other concurrent causes of renal insufficiency need to be excluded. Those patients with renal insufficiency undergoing surgery are at increased risk (25%) of postoperative complications such as acute renal failure and urosepsis compared to patients without (17%) insufficiency (80) . HISTORY A comprehensive medical history must be evaluated and should include the use of a voiding diary, the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) and a discussion of the role of PSA testing (94) . An outline of the evaluation and treatment options for LUTS is shown in Table 4 and is discussed in greater depth below ( 95 , 96 ). Previous urological disease should be documented including previous urological surgery, UTI, bladder or renal calculi, renal disease and penoscrotal pathology. Any risk factors for surgery such as diabetes mellitus, immunosuppression, ischemic heart disease, respiratory problems, smoking as well as a comprehensive list of medications should be noted. Medications with anti-cholinergic properties should be noted, as these may contribute to the patient’s symptoms. The use of antihypertensives must be noted as any
