Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


list of medications should be noted. Medications with anti-cholinergic properties should be noted, as these may contribute to the patient’s symptoms. The use of antihypertensives must be noted as any alpha-blocker treatment initiated could potentially cause severe hypotension. As discussed in the section on differential diagnosis, consideration needs to be given to neurologic causes of voiding dysfunction such as stroke or Parkinson’s disease. Table 4. A Summary of Diagnosis and Treatment Options in BPH View in own window EVALUATION of LUTS ESSENTIAL 1. History 2. Digital Rectal Exam (DRE) 3. Urinalysis 4. Serum creatinine 5. PSA, if > 10-year life expectancy 6. International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) or AUA symptom index SELECTED 1. Uroflowmetry 2. Imaging - especially if hematuria, UTI, urolithiasis 3. Post Void Residual (PVR) estimation 4. +/-Pressure flow studies 5. +/-Cystoscopy TREATMENT OPTIONS MEDICAL THERAPY 1. Phytotherapy 2. Monotherapy: a. Alpha blockers b. 5-alpha reductase inhibitors c. PDE5 Inhibitors 3. Combination therapy: a. Alpha blocker + 5-alpha reductase inhibitor b. PDE5 inhibitor + alpha blocker (experimental) SURGERY 1. Invasive surgery a. Transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) b. Laser prostatectomy/treatment c. Open prostatectomy 2. Minimally invasive measures a. Transurethral Incision of the prostate (TUIP) b. Thermo ablative strategies (TUMT, TUNA) c. Chemical ablative (PRX-302, NX-1207, TEAP) d. Mechanical (Urolift, prostatic stent) e. Others (prostatic artery embolization, histotripsy, Rezum, aquablation) International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) The American Urologic Association (AUA) Symptom Index was developed as a standardized instrument to assess the degree of bladder outlet obstruction in men (89) . It is widely used and consists of seven questions that assess emptying, frequency, intermittency, urgency, weak stream and straining with each graded with a score of 0-5. Total score ranges 0-35. The index categorizes patients as: 1. Mild (score ≤7) 2. Moderate (score 8-19) 3. Severe (score 20-35). The International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) is a modification of the AUA Symptom Index adding a single question assessing the quality of life or bother score based on the patient’s perception of the problem ( Figure 9 ) (97) . Both the AUA and IPSS questionnaires, although not specific for BPH, prostate volume, urinary flow rate, post-void residual volume, or bladder outlet obstruction, have been validated and are sensitive enough to be to be used in the evaluation of symptoms and selection of treatment (98-100) . Many would argue that the score is the primary determinant of whether or not
