Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


to be to be used in the evaluation of symptoms and selection of treatment (98-100) . Many would argue that the score is the primary determinant of whether or not a patient proceeds to further treatment. Further, these questionnaires are a valuable objective measure when determining the response to treatments for BPH. Figure 9. International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) Sheet ( 101 , 102 ) EXAMINATION General appearance is of importance, especially in identifying those with neurological disease (e.g., past stroke, Parkinson’s disease) or other major co-morbidities (obesity, severe osteoarthritis, diabetes) that may impact on treatment or further investigation. An abdominal examination should identify those in marked urinary retention, any abnormal masses, and previous surgical scars. A careful assessment of the scrotum and its contents as well as the penis is also warranted to exclude any other pathology. The digital rectal examination (DRE) is important in identifying prostatic abnormalities, including clinically apparent prostate carcinoma (103). Prostate size, texture, and tenderness should all be assessed, as should anal tone. Any nodules should be carefully noted. Constipation may also be a contributing factor to urinary retention and anal tone should also be recorded. DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS OF BPH It is important to acknowledge that the diagnosis of BPH often relies on surrogate measures until a histological diagnosis is confirmed. These range from clinical (symptom scores), physiological (uroflowmetry), anatomical (prostatic volume on DRE or TRUS) and biochemical (PSA values) measurement. Although all of these measurements capture some component of BPH, none of them is specific for BPH (104) . Surrogate measures are likely to represent a continuum of disease severity without the existence of a threshold. Thus, differential diagnoses need to always be considered and where appropriate, excluded. In table 5 below, some of the more obvious differential diagnoses are listed, but will not be examined in detail. Table 5. Differential Diagnoses for LUTS View in own window Inflammatory Conditions 1. Urinary Tract Infection 2. Prostatitis 3. Bladder Calculi 4. Interstitial Cystitis 5. Tuberculous Cystitis Neoplastic Conditions 1. Prostate cancer 2. Bladder transitional cell carcinoma (usually CIS) 3. Urethral cancer Neurological Conditions 1. Parkinson's disease 2. Stroke 3. Multiple Sclerosis 4. Cerebral Atrophy 5. Shy-Drager Syndrome Other Causes of Urinary Obstruction 1. Urethral stricture 2. Severe phimosis 3. Bladder neck dyssynergia 4. External sphincter dyssynergia PROSTATITIS Prostatitis is a common condition that must be excluded from other causes of LUTS and is a common
