Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


2. Severe phimosis 3. Bladder neck dyssynergia 4. External sphincter dyssynergia PROSTATITIS Prostatitis is a common condition that must be excluded from other causes of LUTS and is a common cause of visits to primary care physicians and urologists. It may present as an acute bacterial infection or may be chronic, occasionally progressing to a debilitating illness. In practice, the clinical diagnosis of prostatitis depends on the history and physical examination, but there is no characteristic physical finding or diagnostic laboratory test. Patients with prostatitis experience considerable morbidity and may remain symptomatic for many years. Unfortunately, there is limited understanding of the pathophysiology and optimal treatment for most patients. Prostatitis has been sub-classified and an abbreviated version is shown in Table 6 . Table 6. The National Institute of Health (USA) Consensus Classification of Prostatitis Syndromes View in own window Acute bacterial prostatitis Chronic bacterial prostatitis Chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Inflammatory Non-inflammatory Asymptomatic inflammatory prostatitis Acute Prostatitis Clinical features suggestive of acute prostatitis (Type 1, in Table 6 above) include dysuria and urinary frequency as well as perineal pain ( Table 7 ). Systemic symptoms such as fever, rigors, myalgia and sweats are often a feature. On examination, the patient is normally febrile, and may be overtly septic depending on the infection severity. A digital rectal exam finds an extremely tender prostate, which is often intolerable to the patient. An abscess is occasionally palpated. Table 7. Clinical Symptoms in Prostatitis (adapted from Lobel ( 105 )) View in own window Genital symptoms 1. Dribbling 2. Inguinal pain 3. Testicular pain 4. Retropubic pain 5. Perineal pain 6. Urethral Burning General Symptoms 1. Backache 2. Sweating 3. Tiredness 4. Cold feet Investigations should include a mid-stream urine sample for microscopy, culture for bacteria, and antibiotic sensitivity. The most common organisms are typical uropathogenic bacteria such as Escherichia coli ( E. coli). Blood cultures for bacteria and antibiotic sensitivity should also be considered. Prostatic massage is usually contraindicated in patients with acute prostatitis due to pain and the risk of precipitating sepsis. A treatment regime is highlighted in Table 8 . If there is failure to respond to therapy, evaluation for a prostatic abscess using a transrectal ultrasound scan or computed tomography scan may be required. If necessary, perineal or transurethral drainage of an abscess may be undertaken. At least 4 weeks of antibiotic therapy is recommended in all patients to
