Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


tomography scan may be required. If necessary, perineal or transurethral drainage of an abscess may be undertaken. At least 4 weeks of antibiotic therapy is recommended in all patients to try to prevent chronic bacterial prostatitis. Following resolution of acute prostatitis, the urinary tract should be investigated for any structural problems ( 106 , 107 ). Table 8. Treatment of Acute Prostatitis View in own window 1. Hydration 2. Rest and hospitalization if severe 3. Empirical therapy with antibiotic until urine culture and sensitivities available 4. For patients requiring parenteral therapy antibiotics covering the likely organisms: broad spectrum cephalosporins, for example, cefuroxime, cefotaxime, or ceftriaxone plus gentamicin 5. Oral treatment according to sensitivities.: quinolones, such as ciprofloxacin or norfloxacin. For patients intolerant of, or allergic to, quinolones: trimethoprim or co-trimoxazole; 6. Analgesics, such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs Suprapubic catheterization if catheterization needed - per urethral catheters may precipitate abscess formation Chronic Prostatitis As the presentation may be localized to the genital region or non-specific (see Table 7 ) a careful history and examination along with specialized diagnostic tests are needed to identify this condition. Investigations may involve prostatic massage to express organisms and/or white blood cells for analysis. Urine sample collection is often done in phases to aid in the localization process: first void urethral urine; mid-stream bladder urine; post-prostatic massage sample. Urine microscopy and quantitative culture is then undertaken. Semen analysis for excessive white blood cell numbers may also be indicative of chronic prostatitis. Serum PSA concentrations are often elevated in acute prostatitis or in an active phase of chronic prostatitis. Trans-rectal ultrasound might be considered but not recommended to differentiate the different forms of chronic prostatitis. Urinary tract localization procedures (culture of first void urethral urine; mid-stream bladder urine; post-prostatic massage samples of urine correlating to urethra, bladder and prostate) although theoretically correct, are often not used in clinical practice ( 106 , 107 ). The various classifications of chronic prostatitis are listed in Table 6 . Patients with chronic bacterial prostatitis (type II prostatitis) experience recurrent episodes of bacterial urinary tract infection caused by the same organism, usually E. coli , another Gram-negative organism, or enterococcus. Between symptomatic episodes of bacteriuria, lower urinary tract cultures can be used to document an infected prostate gland as the focus of these recurrent infections. Acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis represent the best understood, but least common, prostatitis syndromes ( 106
