Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


used to document an infected prostate gland as the focus of these recurrent infections. Acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis represent the best understood, but least common, prostatitis syndromes ( 106 , 107 ). Unfortunately, more than 90% of symptomatic patients have chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (type III). This term recognizes the limited understanding of the causes of this syndrome for most patients and the possibility that organs other than the prostate gland may contribute to this syndrome. Urological pain (normally in the perineum or associated with voiding or intercourse) is now recognized as a primary component of this syndrome. Active urethritis, urogenital cancer, urinary tract disease, functionally significant urethral stricture, or neurological disease affecting the bladder must be excluded. Patients with the inflammatory subtype (type IIIA) of chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome have leukocytes in their expressed prostatic secretions post prostate massage urine or in semen. In contrast, patients with the non-inflammatory subtype of chronic prostatitis (type III B) have no evidence of inflammation. In essence, they have no evidence of active infection nor of inflammation on available investigative techniques taken at a particular point in time. Repeat investigations are therefore done to be sure adequate sampling has been undertaken. This condition may be difficult to treat and requires intensive counselling, information and reassurance to the patient to be successfully managed (107) . Finally, asymptomatic inflammatory prostatitis (type IV) is diagnosed in patients who have no history of genitourinary tract pain complaints. It is often an incidental finding on prostatic biopsy done for other reasons (e.g., a raised PSA). Treatment is usually not required. Treatment of Chronic Prostatitis All patients should have investigations as outlined above. A summary of treatment options is shown in Table 9 . Those patients with chronic prostatitis secondary to bacterial infection (type II) require a prolonged course of antibiotics (often up to three months) and should then be re-cultured to ensure eradication of the organism. Some urologists argue that these patients should also have investigation of their urinary tract by way of cystoscopy and at minimum, an ultrasound to ensure no anatomical abnormality that may be responsible. Patients with asymptomatic prostatitis (IV) require no treatment but those with the inflammatory (IIIA) and non-inflammatory (IIIB) are more difficult. Patients with type IIIA disease have excessive leukocytosis in their specimens but no bacteria. However, because their symptoms may be due to a pathogen that is difficult
