Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


are more difficult. Patients with type IIIA disease have excessive leukocytosis in their specimens but no bacteria. However, because their symptoms may be due to a pathogen that is difficult to isolate, a further course of antibiotics (6-12 weeks) with coverage of chlamydia and ureaplasma should be given (105) . If this antibiotic course is not therapeutic, then a focus should be on anti-inflammatory medications (which may be used in conjunction with the course of antibiotics). If anti-inflammatory treatment fails, then patients should be treated as below, for type IIIB. Current treatment for Type IIIB patients requires multiple therapies. Triple-therapy involves high dose alpha-blocker (3 month minimum), analgesia, and muscle relaxant (benzodiazepines). Initially, a narcotic analgesic should be changed to a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (NSAID) if a response occurs after 2 weeks. The NSAID should be continued for at least 6 weeks, but stopped if there is no response at 2 weeks. If the triple treatment fails, other avenues must be explored, including biofeedback, relaxation exercises, psychotherapy, and lifestyle changes (soft cushions, cease bike-riding). The focus is on improving quality of life and minimizing symptoms, not curing the disease ( 105 ). Table 9. Management and Treatment of Chronic Prostatitis View in own window Oral and written patient education Pharmacological treatment for chronic bacterial prostatitis chosen according to antimicrobial sensitivities include quinolones such as ciprofloxacin; ofloxacin; norfloxacin. For those allergic to quinolones: minocycline; doxycycline; trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole; co-trimoxazole; in many regions, trimethoprim sulfamethoxazole is first line therapy because of better safety profile than quinolones. Other treatments for chronic bacterial prostatitis: radical transurethral prostatectomy or total prostatectomy in carefully selected patients. Empirical treatments for chronic abacterial prostatitis Treat as for chronic bacterial prostatitis with a quinolone or tetracycline Alpha blockers: terazosin, doxazosin, alfuzosin, tamsulosin, silodosin Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs Stress management. Referral for psychological assessment as appropriate; diazepam. Note: benzodiazepines are considered but not recommended in clinical practice because of dependency Adequate follow-up and counselling, often with professional support Cernilton (pollen extract) Bioflavonoid quercetin Transurethral microwave thermotherapy INVESTIGATIONS OF LUTS As outlined by Tubarro et al (94) , the aim of investigations for LUTS should be threefold: ( 1 ) to evaluate the possible relationship between prostatic enlargement, lower urinary tract symptoms and signs of bladder outlet obstruction; ( 2 ) to quantify the severity of benign prostatic enlargement-related symptoms and signs and ( 3 ) to rule out the presence of a prostate cancer.
