Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


bladder outlet obstruction; ( 2 ) to quantify the severity of benign prostatic enlargement-related symptoms and signs and ( 3 ) to rule out the presence of a prostate cancer. Urinalysis Urinalysis is used to screen for urinary tract infection as a cause of LUTS in order to identify those with microscopic or macroscopic hematuria. A formal urine culture may be undertaken if the analysis was suspicious for infection. Post-Void Residual Urine Volume (PVRU) Although there is a high degree of intra-individual variation in the PVRU, it may still provide valuable information with regard to bladder emptying. Although it does not distinguish adequately between bladder outlet obstruction or poor detrusor function, it can identify a bladder emptying problem and be used as a marker for improvement. Due to its inability to differentiate between causes, the United States guidelines on BPH suggest it is an optional investigation ( 78 ). Greater than 300ml is considered a potential risk factor for upper urinary tract dilatation and renal impairment (108) . The PVRU does have the advantage of being used as a monitoring investigation in those opting for non-surgical therapy for BPH. It is readily and quickly performed in the office or hospital setting using portable ultrasound equipment. Laboratory Investigations Serum creatinine is recommended by most guidelines for the investigation of BPH and an elevated serum creatinine would be an indication to evaluate the upper urinary tract (96) . Serum PSA has several implications in the diagnosis and management of BPH, including ( 1 ) providing a prediction of the prostate volume ( 2 ) providing the prediction of disease course, and ( 3 ) providing a risk assessment for prostate cancer. Indeed, in multiple placebo arms of large double-blind clinical trials, the serum PSA is an independent predictor of the risk of acute urinary retention and progression to BPH-related surgery (109) . While the PSA provides useful information in the aforementioned domains, in clinical practice the main utility of PSA testing in the setting of LUTS is to exclude prostate malignancy. In patients presenting with isolated LUTS, current guidelines suggest its use only if a diagnosis of prostate cancer will change management or if the PSA can assist in decision-making in patients at high risk of BPH progression. Upper Urinary Tract Imaging Urinary tract ultrasound or computerized tomography are appropriate modalities. Most would consider upper tract imaging as mandatory if hematuria is
