Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


at high risk of BPH progression. Upper Urinary Tract Imaging Urinary tract ultrasound or computerized tomography are appropriate modalities. Most would consider upper tract imaging as mandatory if hematuria is present and recommend it if there was a history of urolithiasis, urinary tract infection, or renal insufficiency. Intravenous pyelography still has a role in certain cases, as other modalities do not outline the anatomy of the collecting system with such definition (94) . Urodynamics Urodynamics is a general term for a collection of investigations useful in quantifying the activity of the lower urinary tract during micturition ( 110 ). Complete pressure-flow urodynamics are complex and usually involve fluoroscopy, video recording, bladder and rectal pressure measurement, as well as an assessment of urine flow. The simplest urodynamics are pressure-flow studies, requiring only voiding into a measuring device to obtain flow rates, and may easily be done in the office setting. With regard to the investigation and diagnosis of conditions underlying LUTS, when considering inexpensive, safe, and completely reversible treatments, one may opt to avoid urodynamics studies initially. However, when considering irreversible, expensive, or potentially morbid therapy, such studies are considered mandatory. Many patients will not have urodynamics studies based on the first premise above (110) . However, in reality, many surgeons and physicians will have simple pressure-flow studies readily available and will perform these as part of an initial consultation. More complex studies require time and are costly, and so should be reserved for particular situations as discussed below. Urinary Flow Rate (Uroflowmetry) Uroflowmetry is considered by some as the single most useful urodynamic technique for the assessment of obstructive uropathy. The purpose of the uroflow examination is to record one or more micturitions that are representative of the patient’s usual voiding pattern. Therefore, more than one micturition is often required and it is necessary to confirm with the patient if the flow was better, worse or about the same as their normal pattern, otherwise intra-individual variability may lead to false assumptions (111) . The study may be performed in the office or as part of other urodynamic studies in the laboratory or operating suite. Figure 10 indicates the most common urinary flow parameters measured. Of these, the peak flow rate is the most closely correlated with the extent of outflow obstruction ( Table 10 ). Total voiding time is prolonged in obstruction and has a reduced Qmax. Poor detrusor contractility
