Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


is the most closely correlated with the extent of outflow obstruction ( Table 10 ). Total voiding time is prolonged in obstruction and has a reduced Qmax. Poor detrusor contractility is impossible to distinguish from bladder outflow obstruction on uroflowmetry so other urodynamics investigations such as a cytometry are indicated. Figure 10. Uroflowmetry in a normal individual- diagram above and actual reading below ( Table 10 ). Table 10. Interpretation of Uroflowmetry Results. View in own window Flow rate- Qmax Interpretation >15ml/sec Unlikely to be significant obstruction <10ml/sec Likely to be significant obstruction or weak detrusor activity 10-15ml/sec Equivocal Urodynamics- Pressure-Flow Studies Various measurements may be used to define detrusor pressures and urethral sphincter pressures as an aid to diagnosis in specific circumstances. This is relevant in patients with LUTS who have had a stroke (or other neurologic disease) where bladder function may have sensory deficits or unstable detrusor contractions that may need alternate management. Nevertheless, detrusor instability is not considered a negative factor with respect to the outcome of BPH surgery (94) , provided it is adequately managed. Some have even suggested that the detection of detrusor instability in patients with LUTS is only of minor diagnostic importance (112) . Urethrocystoscopy The performance of this investigation depends on patient history and proposed surgical intervention. It is necessary where there is a history of microscopic or macroscopic hematuria to exclude bladder tumors or stones. A history or suspicion of urethral strictures, bladder tumors, or prior lower urinary tract surgery should also prompt this investigation. Surgeons may also use urethroscystoscopy when planning different surgical treatments or invasive therapies. Transrectal Ultrasound Scanning (TRUS) Compared to TRUS, methods of determining prostate size such as DRE, urethrocystoscopy, and retrograde urethrography are poor (113) . It is often conducted in unison with biopsies of the prostate for suspected carcinoma, but is also a useful tool for assessing the size of an enlarged prostate so that the best mode of management may be undertaken, such as open versus endoscopic surgery. OVERVIEW OF TREATMENT OF BPH The primary aim of any treatment for BPH in the vast majority of men is to relieve bothersome obstructive and irritative symptoms (114) ( Table 2 ). Treatment is often undertaken on an elective basis for such patients. Those in whom complications of BPH occur have treatment done urgently as a matter of course. A range of treatment options are available
