Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


on an elective basis for such patients. Those in whom complications of BPH occur have treatment done urgently as a matter of course. A range of treatment options are available and may be tailored to the needs of every individual, taking into account their disease manifestations, success rates of treatment, possible complications, and patient preference. WATCH AND WAIT/LIFESTYLE CHANGE Many men who present with LUTS are often seeking a full assessment of their prostatic health rather than immediate treatment of symptoms that may not be exceptionally bothersome. People with mild symptoms may wish to pursue lifestyle changes as a way of improving their quality of life but with the option of review if such measures fail or symptoms worsen. Furthermore, when an adequate history is taken, hidden agendas such as fear of prostate cancer may even be revealed and fears allayed. Often drinking habits may be responsible for symptoms such as nocturia, where considerable fluid volumes are consumed in the evening. Reducing fluid intake may diminish nocturia and evening urgency. Furthermore, caffeine and alcohol acting as diuretics can further exacerbate LUTS. Simple shifts in daily fluid intake may fulfil patient expectations and result in satisfactory outcomes. Voiding diaries are useful for making patients aware of drinking habits and may be the catalyst for initiating and monitoring changes. Bladder retraining (by using timed voiding, strengthening pelvic floor exercises, and monitoring oral intake) is also an option in some individuals, once a voiding diary has been examined. Medications may also play a role with LUTS. Measures such as diuretic restriction in evenings often prevents nocturia and frequency, provided the diuretic can be taken earlier in the afternoon. It is important to discuss options with the patient and that they he be made aware that the possibility of damage to their upper urinary tract or to the detrusor muscle may result if their symptoms deteriorate and they do not seek medical attention. PHYTOTHERAPY FOR BPH Phytotherapy, or the use of plant extracts, is becoming widely used in the management of many medical conditions including BPH ( Table 11 ) (115) . Often these agents are promoted to aid “prostatic health” and a significant proportion of men try them. Factors also contributing to their widespread use include the perception that they are supposedly ''natural'' products; the presumption of their safety (although this is not adequately proven); their alleged potential to assist in avoiding surgery,
