Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


widespread use include the perception that they are supposedly ''natural'' products; the presumption of their safety (although this is not adequately proven); their alleged potential to assist in avoiding surgery, and even the unproven claim that they may prevent prostate cancer. The widespread availability of these products (without prescription) in vitamin shops, supermarkets, pharmacies, and over the internet has contributed to their usage and reflects the demand for these phytotherapeutic agents. The mechanisms of action are poorly understood but have been proposed to be ( 1 ) anti-inflammatory, ( 2 ) inhibitors of 5-alpha reductase, and more recently ( 3 ) through alteration in growth factors (116) . Phytotherapy, although promising, lacks long-term, good quality clinical data (117) . Nevertheless, because there is a large placebo effect associated with treatment of voiding symptoms, the use of herbal products that have few or no side effects may be a reasonable first-line approach for many patients (118) . However, patients should be counselled that the efficacy, mechanisms of action and long-term effects of these agents are not known and they must be aware of the limitations before proceeding (119) . The most popular phytotherapeutic agents are extracted from the seeds, barks and fruits of plants. Products may contain extracts from one or more plants and different extraction procedures are often used by manufacturers. Thus, the composition and purity of products may differ even if they originated from the same plant. Basic research on one product may not be easily transferred to another making the gathering of data and giving of advice difficult (120) . Table 11. Phytotherapy Used in the Treatment of Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia View in own window Phytotherapeutic plant extract Proposed Mechanism of action Saw palmetto- fruit (Serenoa repens) Antiandrogenic, Anti-inflammatory African plum- bark (Pygeum africanum) Antiandrogenic, potential growth factor manipulation, anti-inflammation actions Pumpkin- seed (Cucurbita pepo) Phytosterols are thought to be amongst the active compounds Cernilton- pollen (Secale cereal, Rye) Inhibition of alpha-adrenergic receptors South African star grass- root (Hypoxis rooperi) Antiandrogenic, alteration in detrusor function Stinging nettle- root Steroid hormone manipulation reducing prostate growth Opuntia- flower (Cactus) Unknown Pinus- flower (Pine) Unknown Saw Palmetto Berry (Serenoa repens) Extracts from the berries of the American dwarf palm (saw palmetto) are the most popular and widely available plant extracts used to treat symptomatic BPH today ( 121 , 122 ). At least eight possible mechanisms of action for saw palmetto
