Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


are the most popular and widely available plant extracts used to treat symptomatic BPH today ( 121 , 122 ). At least eight possible mechanisms of action for saw palmetto have been advocated including anti-androgenic properties, anti-inflammatory properties, induction of apoptosis to name a few (120) . Several studies have found that saw palmetto suppresses growth and induces apoptosis of prostate epithelial cells by inhibition of various signal transduction pathways (123) . However, it is most commonly believed that saw palmetto works as a naturally occurring weak 5-alpha reductase inhibitor, blocking the conversion of testosterone to DHT, as demonstrated in several in vitro studies ( 118 , 124 - 127 ). Thus, saw palmetto may be expected to reduce prostate size. While demonstrated in animal models (128) , this is not the case in several trials using saw palmetto in men with BPH ( 129 , 130 ). The only trial to show in vivo effects of saw palmetto involved needle biopsies of the prostate gland, before and after treatment with saw palmetto or placebo. Although the mechanism is unclear, there was a significant increase in prostatic epithelial contraction in the saw palmetto group (131) . Clinical evidence reporting the use of saw palmetto is conflicting. In a meta-analysis of 18 randomized studies relating to saw palmetto extracts, almost 3000 men with BPH were studied and the authors concluded that “the evidence suggests that saw palmetto improves urologic symptoms and flow rates but that further research is needed using standardized preparations to determine long term effectiveness” (115) . When analyzing flow rate and symptom score alone from this meta-analysis, the effect of Seronoa repens (the scientific name of saw palmetto was to increase the flow rate by a further 2.28 ml/sec (standard error, SE, 0.29) over placebo which gave an increase of 1.09 ml/sec (SE 0.45). Serenoa repens also reduced the IPSS by 4.7 (SE 0.41), which is comparable to that found with finasteride and tamsulosin monotherapy (132) . Conversely, a recently published Cochrane review concluded Serenoa repens was no more effective than placebo for treatment of urinary symptoms consistent with BPH (133) . This update of a prior review, nine new trials involving 2053 additional men (a 65% increase) were included. The main comparison was again Serenoa repens versus placebo where three trials were added with 419 subjects and three endpoints (IPSS, peak urine flow, prostate size). Overall, 5222
