Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


were included. The main comparison was again Serenoa repens versus placebo where three trials were added with 419 subjects and three endpoints (IPSS, peak urine flow, prostate size). Overall, 5222 subjects from 30 randomized trials ranging from four to 60 weeks were assessed. The vast majority were double blinded and treatment allocation concealment was adequate in just over half the studies. In summary, some saw palmetto studies have shown improved symptom scores compared to placebo but generally no change in flow rates (134) . However, large reviews cast doubt on its efficacy. In general, there is a real paucity of well performed, adequately powered, and placebo-controlled trials in the use of phytotherapy in clinical BPH. It is generally well tolerated at a dose of 320mg/day, but its efficacy has not been compared with alpha-blockers regarding efficacy, and has not been shown to reduce complications of BPH with long term use. Finally, the product quality and purity cannot always be assured. African Plum Tree (Pygeum africanum) Extracts come from the bark of the African plum tree. It is hypothesized, based on in vitro observation, that it acts on the prostate through inhibition of fibroblast growth factors, has anti-estrogenic effects, and inhibits chemotactic leukotrienes. No strong clinical data exists of its efficacy although trials are in progress ( 116 , 119 ). Pumpkin Seed (Cucurbita pepo) Dried or fresh seeds have been taken to relieve symptoms. Phytosterols are thought to be amongst the active compounds. Side effects have not been reported but evidence is lacking with no current clinical trials (135) . Rye Pollen (Secale cereale) This is prepared from rye grass pollen extract. In a systematic review summarizing evidence from randomized and clinically controlled trials (114) , rye pollen was found to be well tolerated but only achieved modest improvement in symptom outcomes and did not significantly improve objective measures such as peak and mean urinary flow rates. Again, several mechanisms of action have been proposed including an improvement in detrusor activity, a reduction in prostatic urethral resistance, inhibition of 5-alpha reductase activity, and an influence on androgen metabolism in the prostate (119) . Other Extracts South African Star Grass ( Hypoxis rooperi ), Opuntia (Cactus flower), stinging nettle, and Pinus (Pine flower) have also been studied and used, however the data numbers are small and the types of trials do not allow conclusions to be drawn at this stage (116)
