Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


(Pine flower) have also been studied and used, however the data numbers are small and the types of trials do not allow conclusions to be drawn at this stage (116) . MEDICAL THERAPY FOR BPH – MONOTHERAPY AGENTS In 1986, Caine (62) proposed that infravesical obstruction in men with symptomatic BPH comprised both static and dynamic components. The static component of obstruction is related primarily to the mechanical obstruction caused by the enlarging prostatic adenoma whereas the dynamic component is principally determined by the tone of the prostatic smooth muscle. Two avenues for pharmacotherapy have therefore evolved, namely shrinking the prostate tissue or relaxing the smooth muscle of the prostate. Prostatic smooth muscle tone is under the influence of the autonomic nervous system. Thus, any pharmacologic agent that may interfere with the functioning of this system could alter resistance in smooth muscle tone and resulting symptoms. Medical therapy is now first-line treatment for most men with symptomatic BPH. They are non-invasive, reversible, cause minimal side effects, and significantly improve symptoms ( 81 , 136 ). With these recommendations, the rates of prescriptions for the medical management for BPH have increased drastically over the past decade ( 137 , 138 ). This increased interest has further led to the development of safer, more efficacious agents. Alpha-Blockers There are 3 main components to clinically significant BPH: static, dynamic and detrusor muscle components as outlined above. The dynamic component is associated with an increase in smooth muscle tone of the prostate. These smooth muscle cells contract under the influence of noradrenergic sympathetic nerves, thereby constricting the urethra (139) . Prostatic tissue contains high concentrations of both alpha 1 and alpha 2 adrenoceptors – 98% of the alpha 1 adrenoceptors are associated with stromal elements of the prostate (140) . Thus alpha 1 -receptor blockers relax smooth muscle, resulting in relief of bladder outlet obstruction that enhances urine flow (87) . Different subtypes of alpha 1 receptors have been identified, with alpha 1A predominating. Two alpha 1A -adrenoceptors generated by genetic polymorphism have been identified with different ethnic distributions but similar pharmacologic properties (36) . It was demonstrated in 1978 that phenoxybenzamine, a non-selective alpha 1 /alpha 2 blocker, was effective in relieving the symptoms of BPH (141) . Side effects were significant and included dizziness and palpitations. Many of the side effects of the alpha-blockers were mediated by alpha 2 -receptors (142) .Thus,
