Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


recent meta-analysis of silodosin. Compared to tamsulosin, the combination of 13 studies found silodosin showed little to no difference in urological symptom scores and quality of life whilst increasing sexual adverse events. The same results were reported when silodosin was compared to naftopidil and alfuzosin ( 151 ). Several meta-analyses have demonstrated that all non-selective alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonists seem to have similar efficacy in improving symptoms and flow rates (152) . The difference between non-selective alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonists is related to their side effect profile. Overall, alfuzosin appear to be better tolerated than doxazosin, terazosin and prazosin (153) . More recent analyses suggest that the highly uro-selective alpha 1A blockers are more efficacious compared to non-selective alpha blockers with regards to urinary symptoms and urine flow improvement (154-156) . Further, these highly selective agents appear to have a favorable systemic side-effect profile at a cost of ejaculatory function when compared to non-selective alpha blockers. Table 12. Commonly Used Alpha-Blockers View in own window Group Drug Nonselective alpha blockers Phenoxybenzamine Nicergoline Thymoxamine Selective alpha1 blockers Prazosin Alfuzosin Super-selective alpha1A blockers Tamsulosin Silodosin Long-acting alpha1 blockers Terazosin Doxazosin 5-Alpha Reductase Inhibitors The enzyme 5-alpha reductase is crucial in the amplification of androgen action in the prostate by modulating the conversion of testosterone to DHT ( Figure 5 ). Within the prostate, 90% of testosterone is converted to DHT ( 78 , 157 ). There are 2 isoforms of the enzyme 5-alpha reductase which are encoded by separate genes (158) . Type 1 isoenzyme is expressed highly in the skin, liver, hair follicles, sebaceous glands, and prostate whereas type 2 is responsible for male virilization of the male fetus, and in adulthood resides in prostate, genital skin, facial and scalp follicles ( 159 , 160 ). Inhibitors of these enzymes potentially decrease serum and intra-prostatic DHT concentrations, thus reducing prostatic tissue growth. FINASTERIDE Finasteride was the first of these to be studied in humans and shown to decrease DHT concentrations (161) . It acts predominantly on the type 2 isoenzyme of 5-alpha reductase. There is some evidence that patients on finasteride experience fewer serious complications associated with the progression of BPH compared with those prescribed an alpha blocker, such as acute urinary retention or undergoing BPH-related surgery, but more prospective data is needed (162) . Finasteride reduces serum DHT concentrations by 65-70% and prostatic concentrations by 85-90%, although the intraprostatic concentrations of testosterone are
