Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


findings, more evidence is needed before advising patients to cease finasteride. However, they do need to be counselled on the small, but significant risks of developing aggressive prostate cancer (171) . DUTASTERIDE Dutasteride unlike finasteride blocks both the type I and Type II 5-alpha reductase isomers showing a 60-fold greater inhibition of the type 1 isoenzyme than finasteride plus activity against the type 2 isoform ( 23 , 117 ). In terms of monotherapy, a one year randomized, double-blinded comparison of finasteride and dutasteride in men with BPH (EPICS: Enlarged Prostate International Comparator Study) found a trend for dutasteride improvement over finasteride in IPSS (International Prostate Symptom Score) that did not reach statistical significance (abstract) (172) . Another non-randomized comparative trial with 240 patients, published only in abstract form, showed a small improvement in AUASI and Q max for dutasteride (173) . However, dutasteride and finasteride have never been compared in long-term therapy, either as monotherapy or in combination with an alpha-blocker. These medications appear to exert continued effects beyond 1 year so comparison after only 1 year is likely to be premature. The tolerability of 5-alpha reductase inhibitors in most studies has been excellent with the most relevant adverse effects being related to sexual function. They include reduced libido, erectile dysfunction, and, less frequently, abnormal ejaculation ( 74 , 174 ). Specifically for dutasteride in the Combat study (175) , in the monotherapy arm of 1623 patients the side effect were: erectile dysfunction (6.0%) ; retrograde ejaculation (0.6%); altered (decreased) libido (2.8%); ejaculation failure (0.5%); semen volume decreased (0.3%); loss of libido (1.3%); breast enlargement (1.8%); nipple pain (0.6%); breast tenderness (1.0%), and dizziness (0.7%). As with finasteride, the RE duction by DU tasteride of prostate cancer E vents (REDUCE) trial now fully reported has demonstrated similar results to the PCPT trial in reducing prostate cancer (176) . Again, a higher risk of developing more aggressive cancer was demonstrated- but in this study it was not statistically significant. Indeed, some organizations such as the Canadian Urological Association have been dismissive of this point in recent guidelines (171) . Needless to say, careful counselling of men regarding this issue is again required, particularly for younger men who will be on dutasteride for many years. 5-Alpha Reductase Inhibitors to Reduce Hematuria and Intraoperative Hemorrhage for Prostate Surgery While considered an off-label use, there is some evidence that suggests that 5-alpha reductase
