Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


dutasteride for many years. 5-Alpha Reductase Inhibitors to Reduce Hematuria and Intraoperative Hemorrhage for Prostate Surgery While considered an off-label use, there is some evidence that suggests that 5-alpha reductase inhibitors may be useful in the setting of (177) : 1. Recurrent hematuria secondary to BPH 2. To reduce gland size and/or impact on angiogenesis to reduce intraoperative bleeding for prostate surgery. No large randomized trials exist but an extensive summary of the literature is available (177) . Phosphodiesterase 5 Inhibitors Phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitors (e.g., sildenafil, tadalafil and vardenafil) have been used predominantly to treat erectile dysfunction in men. However, recent data suggest they are effective for the treatment of LUTS secondary to BPH. Specifically, the cyclic nucleotide monophosphate cyclic GMP represents an important mediator in the control of the lower urinary tract outflow region (bladder, urethra). PDE5 inhibitors exert effects by several mechanisms including: calcium-dependent relaxation of endothelial smooth muscle, alteration of the spinal micturition reflex pathways, and increased blood flow to the lower urinary tract. PDE inhibitors are regarded as efficacious, have a rapid onset of action, and favorable effect-to-side-effect ratio (178) . The rationale for using tadalafil for BPH stems from the following three observations: first, the prevalence of LUTS, BPH, and erectile dysfunction (ED) increases with age; second, phosphodiesterase-5 inhibition mediates smooth muscle relaxation in the lower urinary tract; and third, early evidence demonstrates that PDE5 inhibitors such as tadalafil are successful in treating LUTS and ED ( 179 ). Results of several randomized controlled trials have demonstrated reproducible reductions in IPSS, symptoms, and improved quality of life compared to placebo. Data suggests tadalafil 5mg improves IPSS by 22-37% and the improvement occurs within one week of commencement, with a duration of 52 weeks (180). The adverse event profile was acceptable and consistent with that previously reported in men with ED (blurred vision, headache, back ache, nausea, etc.), with discontinuation rates of 2%. Not unexpectedly, in the same study tadalafil significantly improved the International Index of Erectile Function-Erectile Function score in sexually active men with erectile dysfunction at twelve weeks. Meta-analytical data confirms these findings suggesting that PDE5 inhibitors improve IPPS and erectile function, with no significant effect on maximal urinary flow rate (181) . Other PDE5 inhibitors are being studied including sildenafil and vardenafil (178) . The theoretical advantage is treating BPH and erectile dysfunction with one agent (182) . To date, tadalafil is
