Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


Other PDE5 inhibitors are being studied including sildenafil and vardenafil (178) . The theoretical advantage is treating BPH and erectile dysfunction with one agent (182) . To date, tadalafil is the only PDE5 inhibitor that is FDA approved for use for the treatment of BPH. Data on the long-term effects on symptoms and disease progression is not available at present. Anticholinergic Medications High-level evidence suggests that for selected patients with bladder outlet obstruction due to BPH and concomitant detrusor overactivity, combination therapy with an alpha-receptor antagonist and anticholinergic can be helpful (183) . Such agents help particularly with the irritative urinary symptoms of frequency and urgency. Caution is recommended, however, when considering these agents in men with an elevated residual urine volume or a history of spontaneous urinary retention (171) . Botulinum Toxin A Injection Injection of botulinum toxin A into the prostate is a novel treatment for LUTS secondary to BPH. First reported in 2003 (184) , trans-perineal injection of 100 units of botulinum toxin into each lobe of the prostate under trans-rectal guidance is required. In this randomized controlled trial, thirty patients demonstrated significant improvement in IPSS (65% decrease) and serum PSA (51% decrease) compared to controls, who had injections of saline without botulinum toxin A, at a median follow-up of 20 months. Subsequent long-term follow-up of 77 patients up to 30 months has shown similar results – significant reduction in IPSS (approximately 50% lower), significant improvement in maximum flow rate (approximately 70% higher), and significant reduction in serum PSA values (approximately 50% lower) . Importantly, no adverse events were noted (185) . Summary of Monotherapy Medical Treatment The first line of medical treatment is an alpha-blocker, as the majority of patients treated have a prostate volume of less than 40ml. In men with larger prostates (greater than 40cc), a 5-alpha reductase inhibitor (e.g., finasteride or duasteride) alone or in combination with an alpha-blocker would be appropriate. Patients who are likely to respond to 5-alpha reductase inhibition will do so at the same relative magnitude as an alpha-blocker, but it will take a longer period of time (months as opposed to weeks). There is likely to be a 20-30 reduction in symptoms and a 1-2ml per second increase in urinary flow (167) . Side-effect profiles of medical treatments are also important, as discussed above. For example, with regard to sexual function, tamsulosin and silodosin have an increased risk
