Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


in urinary flow (167) . Side-effect profiles of medical treatments are also important, as discussed above. For example, with regard to sexual function, tamsulosin and silodosin have an increased risk of retrograde ejaculation and finasteride increases sexual dysfunction (74) . These may be important factors in choosing therapies. Finally, the emergence of PDE5 inhibitors for the treatment of men with LUTS secondary to BPH alters the landscape with an ability to treat men with BPH and ED with one agent. Multiple randomized trials and associated meta-analyses demonstrate the reproducible benefits of PDE5 inhibitors on urinary and erectile function. MAJOR STUDIES OF MEDICAL TREATMENT OF BPH The medical treatment of clinical BPH has come under increasing scrutiny through larger trials that have become imperative for their introduction into clinical practice. Some of these larger trials have been selected and are discussed below. Veterans Affairs Study In the Veterans Affairs Cooperative Studies Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia Study Group (186) , a total of 1,229 subjects with clinical BPH were randomized to 1 year of placebo, finasteride, terazosin or drug combination. The primary outcome measures were the AUA symptom score and the peak urinary flow rate. The percentage of subjects who rated improvement as marked or moderate with placebo, finasteride, terazosin and combination was 39, 44, 61 and 65%, respectively, only the latter two were superior to placebo. There was no significant relationship between baseline prostate volume and treatment response to finasteride or with the other treatments (terazosin or combination). There was a significant but weak relationship between change in AUA symptom score and peak flow rate in the finasteride and combination groups. The symptom responses with terazosin were not related to peak flow rate or baseline prostate volume. In men with clinical BPH, finasteride and placebo are equally effective, while terazosin and combination are significantly more effective. In men with clinical BPH and large prostates, the advantage of finasteride over placebo in terms of symptom reduction, impact on bother due to symptoms and quality of life was small at best, while the advantage of terazosin (alone or in combination with finasteride) over finasteride alone and placebo was highly significant. The authors concluded that alpha 1 blockers, such as terazosin, should be first line medical treatment for BPH (186) . Another arm of this study observing surgical treatment versus watchful waiting is discussed below. PLESS Study The Proscar Long-term Efficacy and Safety Study (PLESS)
