Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


medical treatment for BPH (186) . Another arm of this study observing surgical treatment versus watchful waiting is discussed below. PLESS Study The Proscar Long-term Efficacy and Safety Study (PLESS) was a 4-year, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial assessing the efficacy and safety of finasteride 5mg (Proscar™) in 3040 men, aged 45 to 78 years, with symptomatic BPH, enlarged prostates on TRUS volume criteria, and no evidence of prostate cancer ( 187 , 188 ). Finasteride use reduced the risk of developing acute urinary retention by 57% and the need for BPH-related surgery by 55% (189) in comparison to placebo. A modified AUA symptom score was used (because trial was undertaken prior to formal AUA being developed) and showed a statistically significant reduction in mean score of 3 for finasteride and 1.2 for placebo, starting at a level of 15 for both groups (188) . Compared with placebo, men treated with finasteride experienced an increased incidence of new drug-related sexual adverse events (erectile dysfunction, decreased libido, ejaculation disorder) only during the first year of therapy with 4% of men discontinuing because of such events (187) . PREDICT Trial The Prospective European Doxazosin and Combination Therapy (PREDICT) Trial was constructed to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of the selective alpha 1 -adrenergic antagonist doxazosin and the 5-alpha reductase inhibitor finasteride, alone and in combination, for the symptomatic treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia. It was a prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial involving 1,095 men aged 50 to 80 years. The dose of finasteride was 5 mg/day. Doxazosin was initiated at 1 mg/day, and titrated up to a maximum of 8 mg/day over approximately 10 weeks according to the response of the maximal urinary flow rate (Qmax) and IPSS. An intent-to-treat analysis of 1,007 men showed doxazosin and doxazosin plus finasteride combination therapy produced statistically significant improvements in total IPSS and Qmax compared with placebo and finasteride alone. Finasteride alone was not significantly different statistically from placebo with respect to Qmax or total IPSS. The treatments were generally well tolerated. They concluded that doxazosin was effective in improving urinary symptoms and urinary flow rate in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia, and was more effective than finasteride alone or placebo. The addition of finasteride did not provide further benefit to that achieved with doxazosin alone (146). MTOPS Study and Predictors of Clinical Progression The Medical Therapy of Prostatic Symptoms (MTOPS) study is a double-masked, placebo-controlled, multi-center,
