Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


provide further benefit to that achieved with doxazosin alone (146). MTOPS Study and Predictors of Clinical Progression The Medical Therapy of Prostatic Symptoms (MTOPS) study is a double-masked, placebo-controlled, multi-center, randomized clinical trial with 4 study arms 1) placebo; 2) doxazosin (4 to 8 mg); 3) finasteride (5 mg) and 4) combination of both doxazosin and finasteride. 3,047 men were randomized equally to the 4 groups (190) . Baseline parameters analyzed included age at randomization, transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) volume, AUA symptom score, Qmax, PVRU, and PSA. Reduction in the risk of BPH progression was analyzed by one covariate at a time regression models of absolute risk of BPH progression versus baseline covariates. Groups compared were combination versus doxazosin, combination versus finasteride and finasteride versus doxazosin (190) . In the main finding, disease progression, defined as an increase in AUASS (American Urology Association Symptom Score- similar to IPSS to score LUTS) of 4, AUR, renal insufficiency, recurrent UTIs and urinary incontinence, was prevented equally by doxazosin and finasteride with an even greater effect when both medications were combined. In conflict with the Veterans Affairs and PREDICT studies, finasteride alone did improve overall symptoms and peak urine flow compared to placebo at 4 years and with even more so when combined with doxazosin (190) . This finding coincides with the long-term open label ARIA dutasteride study described above showing a cumulative symptom benefit of treatment up to 4 years (191) . A small part of the MTOPS study focused on the routinely available measure of serum PSA, in an attempt to predict a patient’s future risk of BPH clinical progression, acute urinary retention and BPH-related invasive therapy, permitting an informed decision concerning the value of medical therapy over watchful waiting (192) . In MTOPS, 737 patients were assigned to placebo and followed for an average of 4.5 years. Clinical progression of BPH was pre-defined as either a 4-point increase in AUA symptom score, acute urinary retention, incontinence, renal insufficiency, or recurrent UTI. The need for BPH-related invasive therapy was a secondary outcome. These data are summarized in Table 13 , where those having a lower PSA, had a lower rise in symptom score, and a reduced risk of acute urinary retention or invasive treatment compared to those with a higher PSA. The sub-group with the highest baseline PSA was also likely to have larger prostate glands, making the findings intuitive. However, as
