Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


invasive treatment compared to those with a higher PSA. The sub-group with the highest baseline PSA was also likely to have larger prostate glands, making the findings intuitive. However, as with many such findings, translating an individual PSA to a population study is difficult, as other factors will determine progression or regression of symptoms, not just PSA. Table 13. Progression of BPH Symptomatically of Placebo Group Only, to AUR or Further Intervention Based on Baseline PSA (adapted from Kaplan et al). View in own window Baseline PSA tertiles (ng/ml) Progression of symptom score (points) Acute urinary retention Risk over study period Invasive Treatment Risk <1.2 3.10 0.18 0.6 1.2-2.5 3.47 0.35 1.33 >2.5 7.21 1.46 2.13 CombAT Trial Combination therapy with a 5-alpha reductase (dutasteride) and the alpha blocker, tamsulosin, in men with moderate-to-severe benign prostatic hyperplasia and prostate enlargement was also further studied in the Combination of Avodart™ and Tamsulosin™ (CombAT) trial. The rationale was the same as those outlined for the MTOPS trial. In summary, it is a 4-year, global, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study designed to investigate the benefits of combination therapy with the dual 5-ARI dutasteride and the alpha-blocker tamsulosin compared with each monotherapy in improving symptoms and long-term outcomes in men with moderate-to-severe symptoms of BPH and prostate enlargement. Symptoms and long-term outcomes (AUR and surgery) were assessed as separate primary endpoints at two and four years, respectively. Eligible patients were at least 50 years old with prostate volume ≥30 cm 3 and PSA level ≥1.5 ng/mL. Almost 5,000 men were enrolled (193) . Perhaps the only criticism is the lack of placebo control arm in the study. The results at four years (194) demonstrated that combination therapy was superior to tamsulosin monotherapy but not dutasteride monotherapy at reducing the relative risk of AUR or BPH-related surgery. Combination therapy was also significantly superior to both monotherapies at reducing the relative risk of BPH clinical progression. Combination therapy provided significantly greater symptom benefit than either monotherapy. Safety and tolerability were reasonable and in line with expectations for both medications. Certainly, at four years the CombAT data supports the long-term use of dutasteride and tamsulosin combination therapy in men with moderate-to-severe LUTS due to BPH and prostatic enlargement. EMERGING COMBINATION THERAPY REGIMES With the increasing body of evidence supporting the use of PDE5 inhibitors in the setting of BPH, a number of trials support its use in
