Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


enlargement. EMERGING COMBINATION THERAPY REGIMES With the increasing body of evidence supporting the use of PDE5 inhibitors in the setting of BPH, a number of trials support its use in combination therapy. To date, there are smalls studies of alfuzosin and tadalafil, tamsulosin and sildenafil, and tamsulosin and vardenafil. These early studies suggest that combination therapy is more effective than monotherapy for urinary and erectile function with a good safety profile ( 195 , 196 ). A meta-analysis of 11 randomized controlled trials (n=855) looked at alpha blockers with or without PDE5 inhibitors. This analysis found men receiving PDE5 inhibitors had a mean improvement of 1.66 points on IPSS, mean increase of 0.94 ml/s maximum urinary flow rate, and improved erectile function (197) . Larger series with longer-term follow up is required to definitively define the role of these combination therapies in current practice. Summary of Combination Therapy for Men with BPH In the larger studies where the standard endpoint of prostate symptom score was measured, a greater impact of dutasteride over tamsulosin was observed. Considering urinary flow rate (Q max ), combination therapy outperformed dutasteride in those with PSA and prostate volumes above the 75 percentile. Clearly, those with larger prostates and higher PSAs derive a greater benefit with dutasteride coinciding with the size reduction impact of this drug. In summary, the results of the MTOPS and CombAT trials both suggest combination therapy is better than 5-alpha reductase monotherapy at the 4-year mark. The higher incidence of adverse effects, the increased cost of combination therapy, and the need for prolonged therapy argue for a reductionist medical approach to this condition. One recent small study investigated the discontinuation of 5-alpha reductase inhibitors in patients on combination therapy and found prostate regrowth and worsening of symptoms after 1 year of cessation, emphasizing the importance of 5-alpha reductase inhibitors in prolonged therapy (198) . In an opposing design, the SMART trial (Symptom Management After Reducing Therapy) observed the effect of removing the alpha blocker (tamsulosin) after 6 months of combined therapy with dutasteride (199) . With I-PSS as the primary outcome, the investigators found that 77% of patients had symptoms that were the same or better after only 3 months of alpha blocker removal. In reference to the CombAT study, the effects of dutasteride continue past two years suggesting that removal of the alpha blocker at later time points may be even
