Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


blocker removal. In reference to the CombAT study, the effects of dutasteride continue past two years suggesting that removal of the alpha blocker at later time points may be even less noticeable. However, the CombAT study is quite powerful as it does demonstrate that the natural history of BPH is not altered by taking alpha blocker alone. The rate of AUR and need for surgery was unaltered at about 18%, and thus while tamsulosin helps LUTS, it does not alter disease progression. Combination therapy did lead to reductions in prostate volume, and changed natural history to reduce rates of AUR and surgery. The largest benefit was in the men with the largest glands. The emergence of newer agents including PDE5 inhibitors gives rise to an increasing number of combination-therapies under investigation. Long-term follow-up is required on these newer combinations. As such, combination treatment will continue to shape the management of BPH for years to come. SURGICAL TREATMENT OF BPH Invasive Surgical Therapies Traditionally prostatectomy by an open approach or TURP has been considered the gold-standard for refractory or complicated BPH (indications listed in Table 14 ). At present approximately 90% of prostatectomies are done by TURP. Open prostatectomy should be considered when a gland is estimated to weigh more that 75g, where large bladder calculi exist that may not be dealt with endoscopically, where large bladder diverticula requiring repair exist, if complex urethral conditions or when orthopedic abnormalities prevent positioning in lithotomy for TURP. Contraindications to open prostatectomy include a small fibrous gland, prostate adenocarcinoma, previous prostatectomy or other surgery of the pelvis preventing access (200) . Table 14. Indications for Prostatectomy View in own window Acute Urinary Retention Recurrent or persistent urinary tract infections Significant bother from LUTS secondary to bladder outflow obstruction not responding to medical therapy Recurrent hematuria known to be of prostatic origin Bladder Calculi TRANSURETHRAL RESECTION OF THE PROSTATE (TURP) TURP remains the most common surgical treatment for BPH (201) and remains the ‘gold standard’ by which other surgical (and even medical) treatments are measured (74) . TURP involves either regional or general anesthesia, with most patients spending a minimum of one night in the hospital. TURP involves surgically debulking the periurethral and transitional zones of the prostate to relieve obstruction. Debulking is done by electrocautery in the standard TURP through endoscopic instruments introduced into the urethra and bladder. Tissue is resected in small pieces
