Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


of the prostate to relieve obstruction. Debulking is done by electrocautery in the standard TURP through endoscopic instruments introduced into the urethra and bladder. Tissue is resected in small pieces until the hyperplastic tissue is removed and a new channel for passage in the prostatic urethra created in the capsule left behind, much like fashioning a pumpkin for a Halloween jack o’lantern. Despite using electrocautery, there are mild to severe degrees of hemorrhage, depending on the gland size. However, transfusions are rarely needed and the procedure is relatively free of life-threatening complications and most patients experience satisfactory resolution of their micturition symptoms. Studies on urinary peak flow rates and invasive pressure flow have demonstrated the superiority of TURP over minimally invasive therapies (202) . Complications of TURP include failure to void (6%), hemorrhage requiring transfusion (1-4%), clot retention (3%), infection (2%), bladder neck contracture or urethral stricture (6%), transurethral resection syndrome (2%), and rarely incontinence ( 80 , 203 , 204 ). TURP is plagued by the potential for morbidity, specifically: retrograde ejaculation, erectile dysfunction, and urinary incontinence. Retrograde ejaculation is reported to occur in almost all patients undergoing TURP as the normal bladder neck mechanism which contracts to allow antegrade ejaculation is surgically resected. Counselling prior to surgery must include a discussion of the impact on sexual performance and also fertility. Erectile dysfunction (ED) may be associated with TURP either via thermal nerve injury or emotional stress and was reported in early studies at a rate of 4-40%. This has now been shown to be an overestimation ( 74 , 206 ). The rate of ED in the AUA Cooperative study was found to be 13% in 1,000 men (80) , however this must be compared to increases of around 20% of ED in untreated groups with BPH. Although ED is often quoted as a side effect of TURP, Kassabian concluded that TURP (or even any other surgical therapy) did not appear to have a long-term effect on erectile function or libido (74) . Incontinence is infrequent and typically is a result of intra-operative damage to the external urinary sphincter. Large pooled analysis revealed rates of incontinence following TURP of around 1% (207) . There has been one randomized controlled trial (Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study Group, see above) comparing TURP to “watchful waiting” or reassurance (203). This demonstrated that TURP showed greater benefit with 66% of patients having a
