Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


controlled trial (Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study Group, see above) comparing TURP to “watchful waiting” or reassurance (203). This demonstrated that TURP showed greater benefit with 66% of patients having a decrease in symptoms post TURP compared to 28% who were undergoing ‘watchful waiting”. One significant modification to the standard TURP using monopolar cautery with glycine as an irrigant has been the use of bipolar cautery using normal saline as the irrigant. The latter has been termed bipolar transurethral resection in saline (TURIS). Glycine alters serum osmolality when absorbed through venous channels in the prostate as the system is under pressure which potentially leading to hyponatremia and also glycine directly itself has an impact on the nervous system. This syndrome is termed “TURP syndrome” and dictates that monopolar resections should be abandoned at around the one-hour mark or when significant venous breach occurs. The TURIS or bipolar technologies thus have the advantage of the ability to carry out resections for a longer time due to very few issues with absorption of saline systemically as opposed to glycine. Large series meta-analysis illustrated comparable efficacy and morbidity profiles when compared to monopolar TURP ( 207 , 208 ). A further modification of the bipolar technology is so called plasmakinetic vaporization where some data is emerging ( 209 , 210 ). This vaporizes rather than resects the prostate tissue. Compared to TURP, plasmakinetic energies results in similar improvements to IPSS up to 12-month follow up (211) . LASER THERAPY FOR BPH – ENUCLEATION OR VAPORIZATION OF THE PROSTATE There are several evolving therapies for BPH involving various lasers including Nd-YAG, Holmium, and now Thulium lasers. These laser energies may be utilized in various methods to resect, enucleate, or vaporize the prostate. Laser as an energy source has an advantage over standard electrocautery by being relatively bloodless and does not carry the risk of hyponatremia, which may rarely occur via absorption of irrigation fluid in a standard TURP (212) . Photoselective Vaporization of the Prostate (PVP) The characteristic 532-nm wavelength laser is selectively absorbed by hemoglobin within prostatic tissue ( 213 , 214 ). Introducing this energy to the prostate results in selective vaporization of prostatic tissue, with effective hemostasis and relatively little tissue coagulation (1.5 – 0.3mm margin). Initially launched as a 60W prototype, the laser was ultimately introduced to the urology community as an 80W system that has been the predominant device used
