Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


(1.5 – 0.3mm margin). Initially launched as a 60W prototype, the laser was ultimately introduced to the urology community as an 80W system that has been the predominant device used in clinical trials. This first generation used an Nd:YAG laser beam passed through a potassium-titanyl-phosphate (KTP) crystal, halving the wavelength (to 532nm), doubling the laser's frequency, and resulting in a green light. In 2006, the 120W lithium triborate laser (LBO) laser was introduced using a diode pumped Nd:YAG laser light that is emitted through an LBO instead of aKTP crystal, resulting in a higher-powered 532 nm wavelength while still using the same 70-degree deflecting, sidefiring, silica fiber delivery system. More recently, a 180W version has been released (215) . This increase in energy corresponds with reduced lasering and operating time (216) . Two-year data from the GOLIATH trial illustrates that the 180W version provides durable symptom improvement that is comparable to traditional TURP (217) . Compared to TURP, PVP has been shown to have an improved side-effect profile, time of catheterization, hospital stay, and improvement in urinary flow rate ( 218 , 219 ). Clinically, the advantage of PVP is that the length of stay in hospital is usually under 24 hours and it can be performed on anticoagulated patients. Outcomes have demonstrated a reduced frequency and severity of clinical complications, however it was limited to smaller prostate sizes (215) . In summary, several laser wavelengths (Potassium titanyl phosphate [KTP], Holmium:Yttrium aluminum garnet [Ho:YAG], Thulium), and delivery systems (end-firing; side-firing; interstitial) are available for PVP, and each has particular characteristics and potential advantages ( 171 , 219 ). In current practice, the use of 532nm 180W PVP (Greenlight) lasers is becoming increasingly more common due to significantly reduced operative times. Holmium:YAG Laser for Enucleation (HoLEP) or Resection of the Prostate (HoLRP) This laser may be used to enucleate the prostate and remove the tissue in pieces (HoLEP) or to vaporise the tissue (HoLRP). HoLRP is an operation involving laser resection of the prostate tissue via an endoscope, similar to a standard TURP using electrocautery as outlined above. The fragments of prostate tissue are made small enough to irrigate out prior to detachment from the prostate (220) . HoLEP again uses a Holmium laser but the laser acts like a finger would at an open prostatectomy, shelling out tissue until it floats in the bladder. The tissue is then morcellated and
