Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


a Holmium laser but the laser acts like a finger would at an open prostatectomy, shelling out tissue until it floats in the bladder. The tissue is then morcellated and extracted. This technique may be safely used in large prostate glands (those weighing >100g) as an alternative to open prostatectomy as discussed below (212) . Initial studies have demonstrated that HoLEP improved flow rates by 56-119% and by TURP 96-127%, and symptom scores reduced in both groups by 60%. Further, these studies reported a reduced length of hospital stay, clot retention rates, the occurrence of hyponatremia, strictures but had a slightly higher risk of reoperation (221-223) . Pooled data of recent randomized trials suggest HoLEP results in significantly improved maximal flow rate, IPSS, transfusion rate at a cost to operative time (224) . Patients are usually kept in hospital a little longer with the Holmium:YAG compared to the PVP technique. However, the Holmium:YAG laser has a longer track record. The disadvantage is that treatment with the Holmium:YAG is quite a complex procedure to learn as it widely resects all the prostatic tissue. HoLRP with its inherent wavelength and laser properties is not photoselective for prostate tissue and as such causes more coagulation and necrosis and has not been popular as a therapeutic intervention. Thulium Laser A two-micron continuous-wave is produced with a wavelength of 2013nm. This wavelength is close to the water absorption peak in tissue. This provides several advantages including excellent hemostasis with minimal thermal injury to surrounding tissue. Tissue may be incised accurately or vaporized depending on the settings utilized. Initial reports in 2005 reported the use of a 50-Watt Thulium: YAG (Tm:YAG) laser (225) . More recently an improved 120 W laser has been produced, allowing for up to 1.08g of vaporization per minute (226) . With the high degree of accuracy of focal ablation, various resection techniques have been reported including: Tm laser resection of the prostate-tangerine technique (TmLRP-TT), Tm vaporization (ThuVaP), Tm vaporesection (ThuVaRP), Tm vapoenucleation (ThuVEP), Tm enucleation (ThuLEP). Combinations of the available techniques allow prostate removal rates to be increase to 2-3 grams per minute (227) . When compared to TURP, TmVaRP offered similar urinary symptom improvement however TURP was superior in improving max voiding velocity post operatively (228) . Furthermore, no improvements in reduced blood loss or decreased length of hospital stay were observed (228) . Similarly, a meta-analysis of four clinical
