Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


max voiding velocity post operatively (228) . Furthermore, no improvements in reduced blood loss or decreased length of hospital stay were observed (228) . Similarly, a meta-analysis of four clinical trials comparing ThuVEP and HoLEP showed both lasers were effective in reducing BPH symptoms but found ThuVEP to have slightly reduced blood loss and shorter lasting urinary incontinence post procedure (229) . This evidence largely suggests that the choice between TURP, HoLEP, and thulium laser is based on availability and surgeon experience. Visual Laser Thermoablation of the Prostate (VLAP) Alternate minimally invasive laser therapies such as VLAP rely on deep thermal coagulation of the prostate by Nd:YAG laser with later necrosis and sloughing of the prostate tissue (230) . They are not photoselective for prostate tissue and do not vaporize the tissue as PVP lasers do. They require prolonged catheterization and have a failure rate of around 10% as reported by Chacko et al in a randomized trial in 2001 (231) . Such therapies differ from debulking surgery and require a post-procedure period for resolution of symptoms with the advantages being lack of general or regional anesthesia. Durability and tolerability remain issues for such therapies with re-treatment rates between 10 and 49% (202) . Certainly, further studies, using randomization, larger sample sizes, and comprehensive measures of outcomes and adverse events, are still needed to better define the role of laser techniques for treating benign prostatic obstruction (221) . OPEN SIMPLE PROSTATECTOMY This is the oldest, most invasive therapy for BPH (232) . This form of surgery was the standard for men with BPH for over a century however was often associated with complications and prolonged hospital stays. The number of simple prostatectomies being performed has declined since the introduction of TURP and laser energies. It is commonly done through a transvesical approach, but may be done retropubically. Early complications of this operation include hemorrhage, blood transfusion, sepsis, and urinary retention with the most common late complication being bladder neck stricture (2-3%) (200) . TURP has lower perioperative morbidity but open prostatectomy produces equivalent, if not superior improvement with a similar or lower re-operation rate (233) . Sexual dysfunction is not likely to be altered by the surgery ( 74 , 234 ) however ED is still quoted at 3-5% risk (200) . Retrograde ejaculation occurs in 90% patients. Other complications of surgery such as deep vein thrombosis, myocardial infarction, and
