Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


234 ) however ED is still quoted at 3-5% risk (200) . Retrograde ejaculation occurs in 90% patients. Other complications of surgery such as deep vein thrombosis, myocardial infarction, and stroke are less than 1% (200) . SUMMARY OF INVASIVE SURGICAL TECHNIQUES Over the past decade, significant advances have been made regarding the invasive management for BPH. Traditionally, TURP has been reserved for refractory or complicated BPH. However, recent advances in laser technologies have resulted in a marked uptake in the use of laser prostatectomy. Novel approaches utilizing laser energy allows for the enucleation, resection, or ablation of prostatic tissue. Multiple meta-analyses demonstrate equivocal efficacy when comparing TURP and laser prostatectomy. In light of this information, in patients where prostatectomy is indicated it is reasonable to proceed with either of the energy sources discussed above based on surgeon and patient preferences. Minimally Invasive Surgical Therapies (MIST) Minimally invasive therapies for BPH have evolved in the past decade with the goal being to achieve symptomatic improvement that is durable, without the morbidity associated with surgery or the long-term side effects or compliance issues associated with medical therapies (202) . The aim of such treatments is to achieve results similar to TURP but with minimal anesthesia, hospitalization, and morbidity. An overview of earlier randomized controlled trials in 2000 by Tubaro et al (235) comparing minimally invasive and invasive modalities of treatment found re-treatment rates to be higher in the minimally invasive group. They concluded that at the time, none of the minimally invasive treatments were superior to TURP from a cost and benefit standpoint and that TURP remains the gold standard of treatment. More recently, an increasing number of therapeutic options have been developed to improve durability without limitation to the minimally-invasive approach. Multiple ablative (thermo or chemical) or mechanical options have been introduced with early data available. Accordingly, current practice suggests a markedly increasing use of MIST, particularly in the younger patients (236) . While the precise role of MIST is not clear, some view such treatments as in-between medical and TURP and we await long term data on all proposed therapies. TRANSURETHRAL INCISION OF THE PROSTATE (TUIP) A similar approach to a TURP is used except that no surgical debulking is undertaken. Between one and three incisions are made into the prostate at the level of the bladder neck back almost to the insertion of the ejaculatory ducts. This releases
