Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


is undertaken. Between one and three incisions are made into the prostate at the level of the bladder neck back almost to the insertion of the ejaculatory ducts. This releases the “ring” of BPH tissue at the bladder neck, creating a larger opening. There is a reduced risk of morbidity such as hemorrhage. In some instances, ejaculation may be preserved in younger men, especially if one incision is made. The procedure only works if the tissue in the periurethral area is not too bulky, otherwise a “ball-valve” mechanism of adenoma may develop. Therefore, TUIP should be recommended to men with smaller prostates (237) . Laser may be used for incisions of the prostate, as well as standard electrocautery (212) . Some studies have shown TUIP to have similar IPSS outcomes to TURP but lower urine peak flow rate. Understandably, TUIP has also been shown to give better outcomes in terms of ejaculatory function (238) . THERMO-ABLATIVE THERAPIES Thermoablation is the principle underlying the several minimally invasive available treatments that have been introduced thus far (239) and these include transurethral microwave thermotherapy (TUMT), transurethral electrovaporization of the prostate (TUVP), and transurethral needle ablation (TUNA). Collectively, these therapies have been shown to have similar or decreased efficacy when compared to TURP but have a slightly better morbidity profile at this stage. Longer follow up data will determine the true efficacy and risk profiles for these thermo-ablative therapies. Transurethral Microwave Therapy (TUMT) An intraurethral antenna emits microwave radiation and delivers heat to a targeted region of the prostate. Histologically, this results in well-controlled coagulative necrosis. A number of series have been published reporting outcomes following TUMT. Multiple studies have compared TUMT versus TURP, which have demonstrated the sustained effect of mild symptom improvement when compared to TURP. A recent review reported a reduced efficacy when compared to TURP with regards to IPSS improvement at 12 months (65% decrease compared to 77% with TURP) and urinary flow rate (70% increase compared to 119% with TURP) ( 240 , 241 ). Retreatment rates are high, ranging between 10-22% compared to 4-8% following TURP. Despite this limitation to efficacy, TUMT provides significant benefits when compared to TURP including improved sexual function, hospitalization, hematuria, transfusions rates (242) . Because of lower effectiveness compared to TURP, TUMT is considered a second line option at this stage (243) . Transurethral Electrovaporization of the Prostate (TUVP) TUVP uses heat from
