Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


. Because of lower effectiveness compared to TURP, TUMT is considered a second line option at this stage (243) . Transurethral Electrovaporization of the Prostate (TUVP) TUVP uses heat from a monopolar or bipolar high voltage electrical current to vaporize tissue (237) . Theoretically this technique could have an ablative as well as coagulative effect. To date, a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials comparing TUVP and TURP have shown no significant differences in IPSS, quality of life or post void residual volumes. Similar rates of complications have also been found however this is limited by short follow up durations ( 244 , 245 ). Furthermore, TUVP did not lead to a reduction in postoperative morbidity or shorter hospital stays (246) . Transurethral Needle Ablation (TUNA) Radiofrequency ablation between two electrodes results in thermal ablation and resulting coagulative necrosis of tissue. Several randomized trials have been performed with only short-to-midterm follow up available. As with other forms of MIST, concerns regarding durability are present. A 5 year follow up demonstrated that 58% of patients had maintained symptom control, however 21% needed re-treatment (247) . Meta-analytical data confirms an improved IPSS and urinary flow rate at one-year, however to a significantly lower magnitude when compared to TURP ( 248 ). Similar to TUMT and TUVP, TUNA has a favorable morbidity profile when compared to TURP. MECHANICAL THERAPIES Urolift Prostatic urethral lift (PUL) is a novel procedure that is characterized by the placement of non-absorbable implants within the prostatic urethra. When placed correctly, these implants provide anterolateral traction to the lateral lobes of the prostate without necessitating tissue ablation. Advantages of PUL are that it is a short, simple procedure that can be done under local anesthesia and has low complication rates. However, the presence of an obstructing median lobe poses a hurdle for procedure due to the inability to place an implant to the median lobe safely. This exclusion criteria prevents a large portion of men with BPH from undergoing this procedure. The BPH6 was a randomized controlled trail that prospectively compared the PUL with TURP. This study reported that PUL improves IPSS to 52% compared to 72% following TURP. Maximal urinary flow rates improved to a modest degree (41% compared to 144% following TURP). Interestingly the preservation of native prostatic tissue results in preserved erectile and ejaculatory function (249) . Pooled analysis of available studies confirm these modest improvements in urinary
