Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


144% following TURP). Interestingly the preservation of native prostatic tissue results in preserved erectile and ejaculatory function (249) . Pooled analysis of available studies confirm these modest improvements in urinary and sexual function ( 250 , 251 ). Further, this procedure is well-tolerated and is performed in the outpatient setting under local anesthetic in a vast majority of cases. Morbidity is representative of typical MIST procedures with small proportions of patients reporting dysuria, urinary tract infection, and hematuria. Durability is among the main concern surrounding this procedure. Only three-year data has been published at present, reporting a modest IPSS improvement (252) . Further comparative robust studies are required to determine the role of the PUL in current practice. Intra-Prostatic Stents In keeping with the principles of minimal invasion, a stent or coil is placed into the urethra at the point of maximal obstruction under local anesthesia, endoscopic and radiographic guidance. Stents may be temporary/biodegradable or permanent. Although effective in the short term, they do have a significant complication rate raising concerns over safety and large randomized controlled trials are needed to establish their long-term efficacy and their true role in the management of BPH ( 204 , 253 , 254 ). Transurethral Ethanol Ablation of the Prostate (TEAP) Deep intra-prostatic injection of pure ethanol results in chemical ablation of the prostate. Of the limited studies available, 4 year follow up suggests sustained response in 73% of patient, with 23% requiring retreatment. More robust comparative data is required prior to more formal recommendations for the use of TEAP. Fexapotide Triflutate – NX-1207 NX-1207 is injected into the transition zone of the prostate to ablate the tissue, but the precise mechanism by which NX-1207 acts has not been published to date. Trials of NX-1207 have shown a mean improvement of 5.7 points on IPSS score for men receiving one injection compared to placebo at mean 43 months follow up. When compared to men taking oral BPH medications, fewer in the NX-1207 group (8% vs 27%) required additional BPH intervention at 3 years (255) . Long-term follow up of men receiving this chemical show durable reductions in symptom scores to 6.5-year follow-up (256) . NX-1207 is well tolerated, with low rates of mild hematuria, dysuria and infection. No sexual dysfunction or incontinence has been reported for either agent. Topsalysin - PRX-302 PRX-302 is a genetically modified bacterial pro-toxin that is activated by PSA
