Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


hematuria, dysuria and infection. No sexual dysfunction or incontinence has been reported for either agent. Topsalysin - PRX-302 PRX-302 is a genetically modified bacterial pro-toxin that is activated by PSA within the prostatic tissue and forms transmembrane cellular pores that lead to apoptosis. Like TEAP and NX-1207, PRX-302 is injected into the transition zone of the prostate. PRX-302 results in a transient reduction in symptoms score that do not appear to be maintained at 12-month follow-up (257) . Similar to NX-1207, it is well tolerated, with low rates of mild hematuria, dysuria and infection. No sexual dysfunction or incontinence has been reported. Botulinum Toxin subtype A (botox) Botox is a toxin produced by the bacterium Clostridium Botulinum. Its mechanism of action for intraprostatic injections is poorly understood however theories include glandular necrosis and the blockage of alpha-adrenergic receptors resulting in smooth muscle relaxation (258) . Phase 2 single arm studies have shown that intraprostatic botox has minimal side effects but has a re-treatment rate as high as 29% (185) . OTHER THERAPIES Aquablation Aquablation involves a transrectal ultrasound guided, robot-assisted, high velocity saline stream. This results in the ability to ablate glandular tissue without the requirement of heat. Real-time monitoring is available and allows the surgeon to ensure sparing of the prostatic capsule. Early studies have demonstrated its safety and feasibility. The WATER trial showed that aquablation was not inferior to TURP for improving IPSS scores at 6 months follow up with slightly improved rates of anejaculation (259) . Longer follow up data from this study is needed to prove long term efficacy and assess long term complication rates. Prostatic Artery Embolization (PAE) PAE is performed by a trained interventional radiologist. Unilateral or bilateral prostatic arteries are injected with an embolic agent - which is typically ethanol-based. With increasing experience, technical success has increased to greater than 90%. A metanalysis of 13 studies including 1,254 men found that PAE demonstrated a mean 16.2 increase in IPSS score and improved quality of life that remained statistically significant after 3 years follow up. Transient dysuria and urinary frequency were reported in 10% and 16% of men, respectively. Post embolization syndrome was reported in 3.6% of men and only three cases of major post-operative complications were recorded (260) . More recently, two-year follow up data from a randomized controlled trial of PAE vs TURP was published. Reduction in IPSS score was similar in
