Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


post-operative complications were recorded (260) . More recently, two-year follow up data from a randomized controlled trial of PAE vs TURP was published. Reduction in IPSS score was similar in both arms however TURP men showed better urinary flow, post void residual volume, reduced prostate volume but more erectile dysfunction. 21% of men who had PAE required subsequent TURP within the 2-year period. PAE adverse events were less frequent than TURP but distribution within the severity classes were similar (261) . Water Vapor Therapy - Rezum Rezum uses radiofrequency to create thermal energy in the form of water vapor. This vapor is delivered transurethrally under cystoscopy to the prostate and causes instant cell necrosis through cell membrane disruption. It is frequently performed under local anesthetic in the outpatient setting. Two retrospective studies showed improvement in IPSS, urinary flow and post void residual volume at 6 and 12 months follow up ( 262 , 263 ). A randomized trial of Rezum vs sham procedure showed a mean improvement of 7 points on IPSS score and an improvement in quality of life in the Rezum group. Peak urinary flow rate was improved by 6.2ml/s in the rezum group and was sustained at 12 months (264) . Morbidity is minimal and is in-line with those experienced following alternate MISTs (265) . Histotripsy Histotripsy is the use of extracorporeal ultrasound energy that produces extreme pressure changes within the prostatic tissue. This pressure changes result in localized clusters of microbubbles which cause mechanical fractionation. Collapse of these microbubbles leads to cellular destruction and prostatic cavitation (266) . The method of prostate injury allows the procedure to be monitored through ultrasound in a real-time setting. One safety and feasibility trial has been published to date reporting three cases of transient urinary retention, 1 case of minor anal abrasion, and one case of microscopic hematuria out of 25 men. No serious intraoperative complications occurred (267) . SUMMARY OF MINIMALLY INVASIVE THERAPIES A myriad of minimally invasive therapies (MIST) has been developed to reduce the morbidity of surgical BPH management. Current evidence in MIST is characterized by improvements in symptom and urinary flow rates similar or slightly less than TURP with high rates of retreatment. Despite this, these procedures are very well tolerated and may be performed as an outpatient. Further, these therapies are highlighted by the significant reduced risk of sexual dysfunction. Some consider that MIST might
