Benign Prostate Disorders
KEYWORDS: prostate, pubmed, prostatic, bph, urinary, benign, symptoms, treatment, benign prostatic, hyperplasia, men, prostatic hyperplasia, patients, bladder, tract


procedures are very well tolerated and may be performed as an outpatient. Further, these therapies are highlighted by the significant reduced risk of sexual dysfunction. Some consider that MIST might be suitable in younger patients that are willing to accept less urinary improvement to preserve sexual function. Elderly or co-morbid men might also benefit given many of these procedures can be performed under local anesthetic or in the outpatient setting. However, the precise role for MIST has not become clear to date. It is clear that MISTs are emerging and will likely become a prevalent treatment option in the management of BPH. MEASURING OUTCOMES AND EFFECTIVENESS OF TREATMENT When considering the effectiveness of any treatment for BPH, one must consider the efficacy and tolerability of invasive or medical therapies (i.e., the effect on both subjective symptoms and urinary flow and incidence of adverse effects), the long-term effectiveness, the impact on daily life activities (quality of life) and the costs (268) . Large scale randomized controlled trials provide information on the tolerability and efficacy of treatment options and evidence-based databases such as Cochrane reviews, may further analyze evidence-based data from multiple trials. CONCLUSION In conclusion, BPH is a common urological condition that is increasing in incidence in conjunction with the aging male population. If left untreated, BPH can lead to lower urinary tract obstructive symptoms that can significantly affect the quality of life of men. As outlined in this chapter, the diagnosis of BPH begins with a detailed history of presenting complaint and interrogation of any lower urinary tract signs or symptoms. Questionnaires such as the IPSS score can help quantify the severity of these symptoms along with a uroflowmetry and PVR scan. A urinalysis, serum creatinine, and serum PSA should be ordered to investigate for prostate cancer, UTI, and renal failure. Imaging with USS or CT is not indicated unless there is concurrent hematuria, UTI, or urolithiasis. Several options are now available for the treatment of BPH. Non-surgical management consists of medications such as alpha-blockers, 5-alpha reductase inhibitors, and PDE5 inhibitors which are available as monotherapy or in combination. BPH refractory to medical management is treated with surgical management which includes invasive and minimally invasive procedures. TURP remains the most widely used procedure for surgical BPH management and simple prostatectomies are reserved for larger prostates, complicated BPH or if TURP cannot be performed. These two procedures form the gold standard
