Pituitary Apoplexy
KEYWORDS: pituitary, apoplexy, pituitary apoplexy, patients, table, visual, diagnosis, hypopituitarism, symptoms, management, blood, tumor, headache, patient, testing


CLINICAL RECOGNITION Insult to the pituitary can be in the form of hemorrhage, infarction or both. When abrupt and sometimes catastrophic hemorrhagic infarction occurs in the pituitary it is defined as apoplexy. The constellation of headache, vomiting, visual impairment (Apoplexy Triad) and altered consciousness with hemodynamic instability, although not specific for pituitary apoplexy, are reasons to consider the diagnosis (Table 1). Often the presentation in this dramatic fashion is the first time the patient is aware that he/she harbors a pituitary tumor. Asymptomatic hemorrhage and infarct into a pituitary tumor can occur in 10-25% of patients, however true apoplexy (the constellation of symptoms noted above) occurs in 2-10% of pituitary tumor patients. Table 1. Signs and Symptoms of Pituitary Apoplexy View in own window Symptom Incidence Headache 95% Vomiting 70% Vision Defects: Visual field defect Decreased visual acuity Diplopia (CN III, IV, V and VI) 64% 52% 78% Hemiplegia rare Meningismus Rare Hypotension (cardiovascular collapse) 95% The most common presenting complaint, headache, can present variably from retro-orbital to unilateral to bilateral temporal headaches. These are the symptoms during the acute phase of apoplexy. As the hemorrhagic infarct resolves often times the patient is left with hypopituitarism (refer to section on Hypopituitarism). Certain conditions will predispose a patient to the catastrophe of pituitary apoplexy. ( Table 2 ). While all large pituitary tumors are at risk for hemorrhagic infarction, certain functional pituitary tumors such as those in Cushing’s disease or acromegaly may be particularly prone. Nearly 25% of all patients with apoplexy have inadequately treated hypertension. Table 2 Predisposing Conditions Associated with Pituitary Apoplexy View in own window Pituitary Tumor Non-functioning pituitary macroadenoma Certain functional tumors Hypertension and/or hypotension Surgery Cardiac surgery (heart lung bypass; coronary artery grafts) Major orthopedic procedures Drugs Endocrine stimulation tests (Thyrotropin releasing hormone stimulation; insulin tolerance test) Anticoagulants Estrogen Head Trauma Pregnancy and Delivery Infections Dengue fever Hypophyisitis Radiation therapy PATHOPHYSIOLOGY The main symptoms and consequences of apoplexy are due to the increased pressure present within the bony walls of the sella turcica in which the pituitary resides. A sudden increase in the sella contents due to blood and edema results in increased pressure. This increased pressure and meningeal irritation are responsible for the neurologic symptoms described in Table 2 , including the increased pressure in the cavernous sinus and the cranial nerve palsies as well as bitemporal-hemianopsia. Extravasation of blood into the subarachnoid space causes
