Pituitary Apoplexy
KEYWORDS: pituitary, apoplexy, pituitary apoplexy, patients, table, visual, diagnosis, hypopituitarism, symptoms, management, blood, tumor, headache, patient, testing


described in Table 2 , including the increased pressure in the cavernous sinus and the cranial nerve palsies as well as bitemporal-hemianopsia. Extravasation of blood into the subarachnoid space causes meningeal irritation. DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL Physicians must promptly recognize that patients presenting with the triad of headache, vomiting and visual disturbances may have any one of several diagnoses that require urgent attention to prevent death or irreversible neurologic impairment. Clinical Evaluation Evaluation of the patient should begin with a thorough history, from the patient if sufficiently conscious to give one, or from family members. A history of a pituitary tumor should raise the suspicion for apoplexy. More subtle abnormalities associated with pituitary dysfunction (hypothyroidism, adrenal or gonadal systems) may be helpful (see section on Hypopituitarism). Radiologic and Laboratory Evaluation ( Table 3 ) The cornerstone for diagnosis of patients presenting with the Apoplexy Triad is urgent radiologic assessment. MRI T2 weighted images are the test of choice and should be performed emergently in all patients with visual symptoms. A CT scan can be useful when an MRI is neither available or possible. Urgent measurement of blood chemistries, including electrolytes, kidney function, liver function, complete blood count with platelets, and prothrombin time can be useful. Since more than 80% of patients will have endocrine dysfunction, urgent measurement of free T4, TSH, prolactin, ACTH and a random cortisol can be helpful and usually is readily available. Less rapidly available and helpful (and less important in the initial diagnosis and management) are other pituitary hormones such as LH, FSH, estradiol or testosterone, growth hormone and IGF I. Examination of cerebral spinal fluid is usually not diagnostic, and unnecessary if the diagnosis of apoplexy is certain. However if there is bleeding into the CSF as a result of the apoplexy, red blood cells as well as elevated protein and xantochromia can be seen. Table 3 Useful Tests in the Diagnosis of Pituitary Apoplexy View in own window TEST Expected Result in Apoplexy MRI pituitary Hemorrhagic infarct in region of pituitary Electrolytes Hyponatremia, Complete Blood Count Anemia, thrombocytopenia Prothrombin time Possibly prolonged FT4/TSH Low/Low or normal Prolactin Low (< 1 ng/dl) Cortisol, random Usually < 5 ug/dl Other tests of the endocrine axes See section on Hypopituitarism Visual Field Testing Defect The differential diagnosis of pituitary apoplexy should include other conditions that result in the symptoms of headache, vomiting, visual disturbances and hemodynamic instability (
