Pituitary Apoplexy
KEYWORDS: pituitary, apoplexy, pituitary apoplexy, patients, table, visual, diagnosis, hypopituitarism, symptoms, management, blood, tumor, headache, patient, testing


on Hypopituitarism Visual Field Testing Defect The differential diagnosis of pituitary apoplexy should include other conditions that result in the symptoms of headache, vomiting, visual disturbances and hemodynamic instability ( Table 4 ). Each of these conditions is itself a medical emergency that requires specific treatment. Table 4 Differential Diagnosis of Pituitary Apoplexy View in own window Subarachnoid hemorrhage (can be distinguished from apoplexy by MRI with MR angiogram) Infectious meningitis Cavernous sinus thrombosis Migraine Rathke cyst hemorrhage Hyperemesis gravidarum Stroke TREATMENT The key to successful management of patients with pituitary apoplexy is a team approach including critical care neurologists, neurosurgeons, neuro-ophthalmologist and endocrinologists. Together each of these specialists provide needed expertise in the management and ongoing care of these patients. Acute secondary adrenal insufficiency is seen in approximately two-thirds of patients and is the major source of mortality associated with this condition. Prompt glucocorticoid replacement is therefor mandatory and should not ne delayed for confirmatory testing. The initial management is stabilization of the hemodynamic status with IV 0.9% NaCl boluses to maintain normal tissue perfusion, and usually high dose parenteral glucocorticoids (100 mg hydrocortisone q 8h intravenous). Unless significant cerebral edema is present, hydrocortisone rather than dexamethasone is favored. Although there is a general consensus that patients with pituitary apoplexy and significant neuro-ophthalmic signs or reduced level of consciousness should have surgical decompression, there is significant controversy in the best timing for the surgical procedure due to lack of good quality outcomes data. (see figure 1 for a suggested management approach). Figure 1 Treatment of Pituitary Apoplexy. FOLLOWUP While 80% of patients have residual hypopituitarism following apoplexy (with or without surgical decompression) some patients do not display immediate evidence of hypopituitarism. In addition, recurrent apoplexy and tumor regrowth has been reported to occur. MRI of the pituitary should be obtained at 3-6 month intervals until the anatomy is stable and then yearly for 5 years. A month after discharge from the hospital and recovery from the acute event, if necessary, patients are subject to repeat endocrine testing to determine if the endocrine defects persist. Repeat testing will confirm whether the patient needs to remain on life-long hormone replacement therapy. GUIDELINE Rajasekaran, S., Vanderpump, M., Baldeweg, S., Drake, W., Reddy, N., Lanyon, M., Markey A., Plant, G., Powell, M., Sinha, S., Wass, J. UK guidelines for the management of pituitary apoplexy. ClinEndocrinol (Oxf) 2011 Jan 74(1);9-20. PMID 21044119 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21044119 REFERENCES
