Chapter 30: Infections Associated With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, individuals, hospital, patients, individuals diabetes, infection, associated, national, icd-, data, tissue, codes, risk, skin


30–1 Received in final form May 29, 2015. CHAPTER 30 INFECTIONS ASSOCIATED WITH DIABETES Leonard E. Egede, MD, MS, Beatrice J. Hull, MD, and Joni S. Williams, MD, MPH Dr. Leonard E. Egede is Professor of Medicine and Eminent Scholar, Chief, Division of General Internal Medicine, Director, Center for Patient Care and Outcomes Research, and Associate Director for Cancer Disparities, Medical College of Wisconsin Cancer Center, Division of General Internal Medicine, Froedtert & The Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI. Dr. Beatrice J. Hull is Assistant Professor and Associate Fellowship Program Director, Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes & Medical Genetics, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC. Dr. Joni S. Williams is Assistant Professor, Division of General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine and Center for Patient Care and Outcomes Research, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI. SUMMARY Evidence supporting the notion that diabetes predisposes to an increased risk of infection continues to be inconclusive. In fact, in patients with diabetes, the percentage of outpatient visits to a physician because of an infection ranges from 1.6% to 5.1%, whereas individuals without diabetes average 2.6%–3.6% outpatient visits to physicians as a result of an infection. Additionally, compared to the general population, the percentage of deaths due to infection in those diagnosed with diabetes ranges from 2.7% to 3.4% compared to a range of 4.1% to 4.6% in individuals without diabetes. In individuals with diabetes, the mechanisms have not been clearly elucidated but are partly attributed to the effect of hyperglycemia on the immune system, increased risk of local tissue ischemia, and neuropathy. The available evidence suggests that individuals with diabetes are more likely to develop certain infections, including asymptomatic bacteriuria (especially women), urinary tract infection, pyelonephritis, renal and perinephric abscess, lower extremity infections, deep subcutaneous tissue infections, postoperative sternal wound infections, and tuberculosis compared to individuals without diabetes. In 2010, 2.8% of hospital discharges for persons diagnosed with diabetes were due to foot ulcers, a stark contrast when compared to only 0.6% of discharges due to foot ulcers in individuals without diabetes. There is inadequate evidence linking diabetes to an increased risk of pneumonia or influenza. The case fatality rate among individuals with diabetes who are diagnosed with a respiratory tract infection, such as influenza, sinusitis, and bronchitis, ranges from 1% to 1.4% compared to a range of 1.9% to 2.4% in individuals without diabetes. Most clinical guidelines recommend persons with diabetes receive
