Chapter 30: Infections Associated With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, individuals, hospital, patients, individuals diabetes, infection, associated, national, icd-, data, tissue, codes, risk, skin


as influenza, sinusitis, and bronchitis, ranges from 1% to 1.4% compared to a range of 1.9% to 2.4% in individuals without diabetes. Most clinical guidelines recommend persons with diabetes receive the pneumonia and influenza vaccines. Similar to the evidence linking diabetes to respiratory tract infections, the evidence linking diabetes to an increased risk of fungal infections, superficial bacterial skin and soft tissue infections, sinusitis, or bronchitis, is weak. However, there are infections that occur almost exclusively among individuals with diabetes, including: emphysematous pyelonephritis and emphysematous cholecystitis, malignant otitis externa, and rhinocerebral mucormycosis. Additionally, diabetes has been identified as a risk factor for invasive group B streptococcal infections in nonpregnant adults. Immunological defects, microangiopathy, and autonomic and sensory neuropathy have all been implicated as risk factors for the aforementioned infections in individuals with diabetes. This chapter summarizes the body of evidence on the relationship between diabetes and infectious disease risks and outcomes. INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW The link between diabetes and infections, such as tuberculosis, has been clinically observed for centuries (1), and the compilation of scientific evidence has been an ongoing work. Before the inven­ tion of medications such as insulin and antibiotics, infections were shown to contribute considerably to diabetes-as­ sociated morbidity and mortality (2). Diabetes is associated with reduced response of T cells, diminished neutro­ phil function, and impaired humoral immunity (3). As a result, susceptibility to infections increases in patients with diabetes, not only for common infec­ tions in the general population, including respiratory, urinary tract, and skin and connective tissue infections, but also for infections commonly associated with diabetes, such as rhino cerebral mucormycosis and emphysematous cholecystitis (Table 30.1). However, few specific infections occur almost exclusively in individuals with diabetes. The longstanding question regarding whether diabetes is a risk factor for many infections has not been resolved satisfactorily. Based on data from the National Vital Statistics System (NVSS) analyzed for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition, in the United States in 1999–2010, the percent of deaths with infections ranged from 2.7% to 3.4% in persons with diabetes and 4.1% to 4.6% in persons without diabetes (Appendix 30.1), with respiratory tract infections accounting for the highest percentage of deaths in both groups (Figure 30.1). Based on a new analysis of data from the National Hospital Discharge Surveys (NHDS) during the same period, the age-standardized percent of hospital 30–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition TABLE 30.1. Summary of Infections in
