Chapter 30: Infections Associated With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, individuals, hospital, patients, individuals diabetes, infection, associated, national, icd-, data, tissue, codes, risk, skin


collects and disseminates the Nation’s official vital statistics. These data are provided through contracts between NCHS and vital regis­ tration systems operated in the various jurisdictions legally responsible for the registration of vital events—births, deaths, marriages, divorces, and fetal deaths. NATIONAL HOSPITAL DISCHARGE SURVEYS 1999–2010 NHDS data are collected from a sample of inpatient records acquired from a national probability sample of hospitals. Because persons with multiple discharges during the year can be sampled more than once, NHDS produces estimates for discharges, not persons. Only hospitals with an average length of stay of fewer than 30 days for all patients, general hospitals, or children’s general hospitals are included in the survey. Federal, mili­ tary, and Department of Veterans Affairs hospitals, as well as hospital units of institutions (such as prison hospitals) and hospitals with fewer than six beds staffed for patient use, are excluded. NATIONAL AMBULATORY MEDICAL CARE SURVEYS 1999–2010 The NAMCS is a national survey designed to meet the need for objective, reliable information about the provision and use of ambulatory medical care services in the United States. Findings are based on a sample of visits to non-federal employed, office-based physicians who are primarily engaged in direct patient care. NATIONAL NURSING HOME SURVEYS 1999 AND 2004 The NNHS is a continuing series of national sample surveys of nursing homes, their residents, and their staff. Although each of these surveys emphasized different topics, they all provided some common basic information about nursing homes, their residents, and their staff. All nursing homes included in this survey had at least three beds and were either certified (by Medicare or Medicaid) or had a state license to operate as a nursing home. There are several limitations that must be mentioned. First, with large, national data sets, it is important to recognize that underreporting and/or misreporting of data can occur. For example, compared to those who do not have diabetes, the death certificate data on infections for individuals with diabetes may not be reported accurately. Similarly, hospital discharge data may not reflect all appro­ priate diagnoses upon release after inpatient hospitalizations. Additionally, long-term and federal hospitals are often excluded from national data, such as the NHDS; therefore, hospitalizations involving persons with diabetes may be underestimated. Second, the sample size associated with some of the medical conditions analyzed may be small; therefore, estimates may be limited and not generalizable to all subpopulations. Third, because national
