Chapter 30: Infections Associated With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, individuals, hospital, patients, individuals diabetes, infection, associated, national, icd-, data, tissue, codes, risk, skin


for Diabetes in America demonstrated a higher percentage of hospital discharges listing influenza as a diagnosis in individuals without diabetes (approximately 6%–7%) compared to individuals with diabetes (approximately 5%–6%) (Figure 30.9, Appendix 30.2). Treatment for influenza is mostly symp­ tomatic, but antiviral agents can be used as well. Major complications are sinusitis, bronchitis, and pneumonia. Although one study found that prophylactic influenza vaccination was associated with only a 12.3% reduction in hospitalization rates for older individuals (age ≥65 years) with diabetes compared to 23% in people without diabetes (p=0.08) (10), most epide­ miologic studies suggest that persons with diabetes are at higher risk for complications, hospitalization, and death from influenza (8,11,12). Accordingly, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommends vaccinating individuals with diabetes before the influenza season as the most effective way to reduce the impact of influenza (Table 30.3) (8). Controlled data comparing the inci­ dence of pneumonia in individuals with and without diabetes are scarce. The question remains whether diabetes is an individual risk factor for developing pneumonia; however, data support the notion that diabetes increases the risk for pneumonia-related hospitalizations (13), increased length of hospital stay (14), and pneumonia-related mortality (15). In one 12-month prospective study, indi­ viduals with type 1 or type 2 diabetes were shown to have a greater risk of lower respiratory tract infection (type 1 diabetes: adjusted odds ratio [AOR] 1.42, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.96–2.08; type 2 diabetes: AOR 1.32, 95% CI 1.13– 1.53) (16), but results from other studies have yielded conflicting results (16). Diabetes is one of the conditions asso­ ciated with recurrent pneumonia (17), and microorganisms responsible for pneumonia in individuals with diabetes differ from those in individuals without diabetes. Individuals with diabetes are more likely to develop pneumonia from Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella pneu­ monia, and other gram-negative rods (18,19). Pneumonia from Streptococcus pneumonia is associated with increased mortality and bacteremia among indi­ viduals with diabetes (8,18). In one population-based case-control study, the odds ratio (OR) for community-acquired pneumococcal bacteremia, adjusted for comorbidities, was 1.5 (95% CI 1.1–2.0) in those with diabetes compared with persons without diabetes (19). Accordingly, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommends pneumococcal vaccination in individuals with diabetes as a strategy to reduce invasive disease from pneumococcus (Table 30.3) (8). Sinusitis and Bronchitis No direct comparison data are available to determine whether individuals with diabetes are more likely to develop acute sinusitis and bronchitis than
