Chapter 30: Infections Associated With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, individuals, hospital, patients, individuals diabetes, infection, associated, national, icd-, data, tissue, codes, risk, skin


have been investigated to better understand the causal mechanism of UTI in persons with diabetes, and neither the presence of glucosuria (23) nor level of hyperglycemia (24) explains the higher incidence of UTIs in individuals with diabetes. UroEDIC is a urologic complications ancillary study of the Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications Study that followed Diabetes Control and Complications Trial participants after the conclusion of the clinical trial. Among women with type 1 diabetes, sexual activity—a risk factor common to all young, sexually active women with and without diabetes—but not diabetes duration, measures of diabetes control, or complications, was the main risk factor associated with increased cystitis risk (AOR 8.28, 95% CI 1.45–158.32, p=0.01) (25). Others have suggested that impaired renal function secondary to glomerulosclerosis and micturition abnormalities causing increased residual urine could account for an increased susceptibility to infection (26). Studies have also shown that patients with poorly controlled diabetes have higher adherence of Escherichia coli with type 1 fimbriae to uroepithelial cells (23). Predominant organisms include Escherichia coli (the most common pathogen) and Klebsiella pneumonia, Proteus, group B streptococci, Candida albicans, and multimicrobial-resistant pathogens in patients with complicated infection (e.g., polynephritis, indwelling catheters, recent antibiotic therapy) (5). Asymptomatic Bacteriuria Asymptomatic bacteriuria is the presence of a pathogen in the urine of an asymp­ tomatic patient. In 2005, the Infectious Diseases Society of America published guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of asymptomatic bacteriuria in adults (27). For asymptomatic women, bacteriuria is defined as two consecutive clean catch voided urine samples with the same bacte­ rial strain in counts ≥105 cfu/mL (26) or a single catheterized urine specimen with one bacterial species isolated in counts ≥105 cfu/mL; the latter also defines bacte­ riuria in asymptomatic men (27,28). The true incidence and prevalence of asymptomatic bacteriuria is unknown (especially in men) (27). Multiple studies show that asymptomatic bacteriuria is more common in women with diabetes (2,5,29). In one study, the prevalence of asymptomatic bacteriuria was 26% in women with diabetes compared with 6% in those without diabetes (23). In another, the prevalence was 29% in women with diabetes, which was about three times greater than that in women without diabetes (30). Hypothesized reasons for this greater prevalence include urethral reflex and residual volume due to morpho­ logic and functional changes in the bladder that results from diabetes (31). In men with diabetes, the overall prevalence of asymp­ tomatic bacteriuria is
