Chapter 30: Infections Associated With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, individuals, hospital, patients, individuals diabetes, infection, associated, national, icd-, data, tissue, codes, risk, skin


per 10,000 for men (26). A new analysis of NHDS 1999–2010 data for Diabetes in America showed that, in the United States, the average percentage of hospital discharges listing pyelonephritis among individuals with diabetes was 0.78% compared with 0.56% in those without diabetes (Figure 30.11, Appendix 30.2). Also, individuals with diabetes with acute pyelonephritis were more likely to develop complications (2). Bacteremia is about four times more likely and acute renal failure is nearly twice as likely to occur in individuals with diabetes (5,39). Emphysematous Pyelonephritis Emphysematous pyelonephritis is an uncommon (200 cases reported by 2013) necrotizing, gas-producing infection of the renal parenchyma (40). Diabetes is present in 70%–90% of patients presenting with this infection (19). Among persons with diabetes, urinary tract obstruction is shown to be a risk factor (present in 5 out of 10 patients in one case series) (41). The transport of metabolic endproducts is impaired due to decreased tissue perfusion in individuals with diabetes, and there is an increase in carbon dioxide produced by microorganisms from glucose (5,40), with the most common causative organ­ isms being Escherichia coli and Klebsiella (19). The clinical course can be difficult to distinguish from acute pyelonephritis, as most patients present with fever, flank pain, and nausea. Severe symptoms and failure to respond to antibiotic therapy should be warning signs prompting further investigation. Diagnosis is confirmed by identifying the gas in renal tissues. Computed tomography (CT) is the most sensitive diagnostic method (19). Despite pharmacological and surgical therapy, mortality remains high (60%–80%), but nephrectomy, if appropriate, has a potential to reduce it to 20% (19). Renal and Perinephric Abscess Renal and perinephric abscess is a compli­ cated UTI characterized by tissue necrosis forming either a walled off cavity (renal abscess) or a more diffuse liquefaction (perinephric abscess). Major risk factors are diabetes and kidney stones. In one study, each of these risk factors was present in 28% of patients (38). In a study conducted in Taiwan, among more than one-half million adults with diabetes and sex- and age-matched controls, the hazard ratio of hospitalization for renal abscess in individuals with diabetes was 3.81 (95% Cl 3.44–4.23) (42). Renal ultrasound and CT are the most sensitive tests. SKIN AND SOFT TISSUE INFECTIONS Skin and soft tissue infections are common complications in individuals with diabetes, with skin infections occurring in 20%–50% of patients annually. These infections are more common among individuals with undiagnosed
