Chapter 30: Infections Associated With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, individuals, hospital, patients, individuals diabetes, infection, associated, national, icd-, data, tissue, codes, risk, skin


1999, peaked at 1.1% in 2006, and dropped to 0.9% in 2010 compared to 0.1% in both 1999 and 2006 for patients without diabetes, with a slight increase to 0.2% in 2010 (Figure 30.15, Appendix 30.2). Osteomyelitis should be suspected in patients with deep, chronic, nonhealing ulcers, exposed bone, or positive probe- to-bone tests (54). Increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate can be suggestive of this complication as well. Serial plain radiograms, radioisotope scans, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are radiological techniques that can be used to establish a diagnosis. MRI is the most sensitive diagnostic test, while a positive culture from a bone biopsy remains the gold standard for diagnosis (54). A multi­ specialty team, comprised of an infectious disease specialist, vascular/general surgeon, and an endocrinologist are necessary for optimal treatment of foot ulcers in individuals with diabetes. Initial empiric treatment with pathogen-specific antibiotic therapy (when culture results are available) and surgical debridement are acceptable treatment options depending on the severity of the disease. In severe cases (unsalvageable foot, untreatable infection, critically ischemic limb that cannot be adequately revascularized), amputation may need to be done. Deep Subcutaneous Tissue Infections The incidence of necrotizing soft-tissue infections in the United States is esti­ mated to be 500–1,500 cases per year (60). Among complicated skin and soft tissue infections, necrotizing fasciitis and Fournier’s gangrene are more prev­ alent in individuals with diabetes, and as many as 75% of those diagnosed with necrotizing fasciitis have diabetes (51). As seen in a new analysis of NHDS 1999–2010 data for Diabetes in America, TABLE 30.4. Classification of Diabetic Foot Infections WAGNER CLASSIFICATION, 1983 INFECTIOUS DISEASES SOCIETY OF AMERICA (IDSA) CLASSIFICATION, 2012 PEDIS GRADE* Grade 0: No ulcer in high risk foot Grade 1: Superficial ulcer involving the full skin thickness but no underlying tissue Grade 2: Deep ulcer penetrating down to ligaments and muscle, but no bone involvement or abscess formation Grade 3: Deep ulcer with cellulitis or abscess formation, often with osteomyelitis Grade 4: Localized gangrene Grade 5: Extensive gangrene involving the whole foot Uninfected: Wound lacking purulence or any manifestations of inflammation. Mild: Presence of ≥2 manifestations of inflammation (purulence, erythema, pain, tenderness, warmth, induration), but any cellulitis/erythema extends ≤2 cm around the ulcer, and infection is limited to the skin and subcutaneous tissues; no other complications or systemic illness. Moderate: Presence of ≥1 of these characteristics: cellulitis extending >2 cm, lymphangitis streaking, spread beneath
