Chapter 30: Infections Associated With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, individuals, hospital, patients, individuals diabetes, infection, associated, national, icd-, data, tissue, codes, risk, skin


high, especially in patients with hypotension and shock, and is between 12% and 70% (25,60,61). Data from the National Surgical Quality Improvement Program database between 2005 and 2008 did not show diabetes as being a risk factor for mortality (61). Fournier’s gangrene is one of the most common forms of necrotizing fasciitis in individuals with diabetes and involves mainly the male genitalia. Twenty to seventy percent of patients with this disease have diabetes, and the disease can be an initial presentation of diabetes, but it is still debatable whether diabetes is associated with increased mortality (51,63). Necrotizing infections involving muscles, such as Clostridial myonecrosis and non-Clostridial myonecrosis, have also been described in individuals with diabetes; however, it is not clear whether these infections occur more frequently in individuals with diabetes compared with the general population. HOSPITAL-ACQUIRED INFECTIONS Hyperglycemia, a manifestation of diabetes, results in immunosuppression, a state in which glycosylation endproducts are associated with inactivation of the immune response and contribute to an increased risk of infection (64), especially in hospitalized individuals. Among individuals with diabetes, acute illness is associated with worsening of glycemic control. Many studies have attempted to evaluate the relationship between diabetes status, the level of hyperglycemia, and clinical outcomes, but results are variable and not consistent. This is likely due to differences in patient selection and methodology. New anal­ yses of national data (NHDS) are shown in Figure 30.7 and Appendices 30.2, 30.4, and 30.5. Figure 30.7 compares age-standardized percentages of hospital discharges listing hospital-acquired infec­ tions by diabetes status. In individuals with diabetes, approximately 3.2% of discharge summaries listed hospital-acquired infec­ tion as a diagnosis compared to 2.4% in individuals without diabetes in 1999. By 2010, the percentage of individuals with diabetes who had a hospital-acquired infection listed as a discharge diagnosis decreased to 2.8%, and the discharge diagnosis of hospital-acquired infections in individuals without diabetes nearly doubled to 4.1%. Summarily, in 1999, for a greater percentage of individuals with diabetes, hospital-acquired infections were listed at hospital discharge, but this percentage trended down by 2010 to ultimately be less than the percentage of hospital-acquired infections listed at discharge for individuals without diabetes (Appendix 30.2). Similarly, this trend was observed in individuals with sepsis listed at hospital discharge (Appendix 30.4). Hospital discharges listing postoperative wound infections in individuals with and without diabetes between 1999 and 2010 were similar (<1%) with a slight peak to 0.8% in
