Chapter 30: Infections Associated With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, individuals, hospital, patients, individuals diabetes, infection, associated, national, icd-, data, tissue, codes, risk, skin


in patients after coronary bypass graft surgery to 0.8% compared to 2% among the conventionally treated group (p=0.01) (71). Consequently, more studies are needed to investigate whether glycemic control is beneficial in prevention or control of infections and at what glycemic levels benefits are maximized, especially for individuals with diabetes. PERIODONTAL DISEASE Studies have not established that peri­ odontal disease is more prevalent among individuals with diabetes, but disease severity and complication rates are greater (72,73). In 2006, a meta-analysis of 23 studies showed that individuals with diabetes had worse oral hygiene measured by the average of plaque index, higher severity of gingival disease, and higher severity of periodontal disease (measured by the average probing pocket depth and clinical attachment loss) (72). The studies included in the meta-analysis differed by sample characteristics (i.e., age, type of diabetes, etc.) and study design (i.e., proposed outcome vari­ ables and other matching and adjusted covariates) (72). Diabetic microvascular disease, increased salivary glucose levels, and decreased salivary pH, as well as impaired collagen metabolism, have been studied as potential risk factors (2). The impact of periodontal disease treatment on glycemic control has not been clearly established (73). Additional discussion of periodontal disease in diabetes is provided in Chapter 31 Oral Health and Diabetes. 30–16 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition INFECTIONS ASSOCIATED WITH DIABETES MALIGNANT OTITIS EXTERNA Malignant or invasive otitis externa (MOE) is an infection of the external auditory canal and skull base. It is an uncommon, though potentially life-threatening, disease. The true incidence of MOE is unknown, as only case reports have been published. MOE most likely affects older patients with diabetes and other immune system-compromising diseases. Studies have found that 65%–100% of patients with MOE have diabetes (74). Interestingly, MOE is rarely reported to affect children with diabetes, prompting the thought that the prolonged course and complications of diabetes are the most important predis­ posing factors. In individuals with diabetes, small vessel angiopathy, the decreased function of polymorphonuclear cells, such as impaired chemotaxis and phagocytosis, and the higher pH of cerumen have been reported to be pathogenic factors (74,75). Pseudomonas aeruginosa is the most common causative organism, though other bacteria, such as Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, and other gram-negative bacteria, and fungi have been reported as well. MOE presents with severe pain, otorrhea, and hearing loss. Diagnosis is made by recognition of clinical symptoms and signs, obtaining laboratory data supporting the presence
