Chapter 30: Infections Associated With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, individuals, hospital, patients, individuals diabetes, infection, associated, national, icd-, data, tissue, codes, risk, skin


have been reported as well. MOE presents with severe pain, otorrhea, and hearing loss. Diagnosis is made by recognition of clinical symptoms and signs, obtaining laboratory data supporting the presence of infection, and obtaining imaging studies showing the involvement of bony structures. Though CT scanning and MRI are used, nuclear imaging has proven to be superior in the diagnosis and follow-up of patients with MOE (53). Timely diagnosis, aggressive hypergly­ cemia treatment, and the appropriate selection of antibiotic therapy are required to achieve a positive outcome, as the mortality rate is as high as 50% (74). RHINOCEREBRAL MUCORMYCOSIS Mucormycosis is a collection of angioin­ vasive infections caused by fungi of the Mucoraceae family. Though true estima­ tion of prevalence is clouded by the lack of well-collected data, mucormycosis appears to represent only 8.3%–13% of all fungal infections, including candi­ diasis and aspergillosis, remaining rare and uncommon, even in high-risk individuals (76). The largest registry of mucormycosis cases found that 9% of 230 cases from 2005–2007 were among patients with diabetes, though a majority (>50%) were attributed to those with hematologic malignancies (44%) and trauma (15%). Uncontrolled diabetes and especially ketoacidosis are predis­ posing factors for this infection. Though mucormycosis is an uncommon disease, mortality rates among individuals with diabetes are as high as 44% (77). Among all clinical forms of mucormycosis (pulmonary, cutaneous, gastrointestinal, etc.), the rhinocerebral form is most common in patients with diabetes (76). As many as 36% of patients presenting with rhinocerebral mucormycosis have diabetes (77). Early on, the disease presents with facial and ocular pain, nasal congestion, and occasionally, nasal discharge and may be difficult to differentiate from sinusitis. The disease progresses to cause severe facial pain, proptosis, cranial nerve palsies, headache, and vision loss. A black necrotic eschar may be present, but it need not be present for diagnosis. Due to the rapid progression and increased mortality rate associated with this infection, early diagnosis is of paramount importance. CT imaging and MRI are used to determine the extent of bony, soft tissue, and cerebral invasion. Direct tissue sampling may also be necessary for diagnosis. The control of hyperglycemia and acidosis, aggressive surgical debridement, and intravenous amphotericin B are the most important factors in reducing mortality rates. EMPHYSEMATOUS CHOLECYSTITIS Emphysematous cholecystitis (EC) is a life-threatening form of acute cholecys­ titis caused by gas-producing bacteria, most commonly those of the Clostridium species, though other bacteria, such as
