Chapter 30: Infections Associated With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, individuals, hospital, patients, individuals diabetes, infection, associated, national, icd-, data, tissue, codes, risk, skin


and poor opsonophagocytosis to serotype II, may explain the increase in GBS infection rates. DIABETES AND TUBERCULOSIS The association between diabetes and tuberculosis (TB) is well recognized, and TB continues to be among the most common causes of death in low- or middle-income countries (84). The rise in incidence of type 2 diabetes in the world and the continuous presence of TB as a serious health threat make the association between these diseases an important problem to study and address. In 2011, there were 366 million people affected by diabetes and 12 million TB cases in the world (85). Ninety-five percent of TB patients live in developing countries, and 79% of diabetic patients also reside in low- to middle-income countries (85). Most evidence regarding diabetes as a risk factor for TB comes from case-control studies conducted worldwide. The overall relative risk of having active TB in patients with diabetes is in the range of 1.16 to 7.83 compared to those without diabetes (84,85,86). In a review of 30 studies, TB was prevalent in 1.7%–36% of persons with diabetes (85,87). A systemic review of studies, conducted according to the Meta-analysis Of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (MOOSE) guidelines, and a subsequent random effects meta-analysis of 13 cohort studies showed that diabetes was associated with an increased risk of TB (RR 3.11, 95% CI 2.27–4.26). The relative risk was lower (1.46) in individuals with diabetes in North America than those of other countries (RRCentralAm 6.00, RREurope 4.40, RRAsia 3.11 compared to North America, meta-regression pCentralAm=0.006, pEurope=0.004, pAsia=0.03) (88). Patients with diabetes are more likely to present with the infection affecting the lower lung (84), while also being more likely to have multilobar disease and pleural effusion (2). Studies suggest that individuals with diabetes respond to TB treatment, and they are not more likely to develop multidrug resistance (2,84); however, the relapse rate is four times greater than in individ­ uals without diabetes (86). Treatment for TB can cause additional morbidity in indi­ viduals with diabetes: hyperglycemia can worsen during acute infection, isoniazid can worsen peripheral neuropathy, and rifam­ picin can reduce the efficacy of sulfonylurea drugs. Death is also more common among individuals with diabetes and TB. Data from Maryland showed that among people infected with TB, individuals with diabetes were 6.5–6.7 times more likely to die compared to controls without diabetes (84). Many studies in animal models, as well as human subjects,
