Chapter 30: Infections Associated With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, infections, individuals, hospital, patients, individuals diabetes, infection, associated, national, icd-, data, tissue, codes, risk, skin


people infected with TB, individuals with diabetes were 6.5–6.7 times more likely to die compared to controls without diabetes (84). Many studies in animal models, as well as human subjects, have investigated potential biologic mechanisms for the causal association between diabetes and 30–18 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition the increased risk for TB. Available data show that the bacterial load is higher in subjects with diabetes, and they have decreased T helper 1 adaptive immunity due to lower production of interferon-γ, interleukin-12, and nitric oxide (84,88). Also, monocytes from individuals with diabetes have impaired chemotaxis, and alveolar macrophages have decreased hydrogen peroxidase production that result in less oxidative killing potential and decreased phagocytosis (84,88). Vitamin D deficiency has been shown to affect immunity against Mycobacterium tuber­ culosis in mice (89) and was shown to be prevalent in human patients with TB (90). The above data suggest that there is a causal relationship between diabetes and TB and that hyperglycemia and its effect on physical barriers and immune function play a major role (85). There is also the question whether TB can lead to hyperglycemia and diabetes. Patients with TB have higher rates of impaired glucose tolerance than community controls (84). Metabolic decompensation due to infection and infection-induced insulin resistance can cause transient hyperglycemia (85). At this point, it is still not clear whether persistent impaired glucose tolerance and even diabetes are truly caused by TB or if these diseases are newly diagnosed due to receiving medical care for TB (84). CONCLUSION This chapter presents a broad overview of infections associated with diabetes by examining the link between diabetes and the risk of infection in persons with and without this metabolic disease. Evidence has shown several infections and caus­ ative organisms to be more prevalent in individuals diagnosed with diabetes; however, no infection appears to occur exclusively in individuals with diabetes. Additional scientific evidence is needed to examine the association between diabetes and infectious processes. LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS A1c . . . . . . . glycosylated hemoglobin AOR . . . . . . adjusted odds ratio CI . . . . . . . . confidence interval CT . . . . . . . computed tomography EC . . . . . . . emphysematous cholecystitis GBS . . . . . . group B Streptococcus infections HIV . . . . . . . human immunodeficiency virus
