HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, cirrhosis, frailty, sarcopenia, manuscript, author manuscript, author, muscle, patients cirrhosis, liver, frailty sarcopenia, manuscript author, mass, intake, associated


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 September 01. Published in final edited form as: Hepatology. 2021 September ; 74(3): 1611–1644. doi:. Malnutrition, Frailty, and Sarcopenia in Patients With Cirrhosis: 2021 Practice Guidance by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases Jennifer C Lai1,#, Puneeta Tandon2,#, William Bernal3, Elliot B Tapper4, Udeme Ekong5, Srinivasan Dasarathy6, Elizabeth J Carey7 Washington, DC. 6Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Inflammation and Immunity, Lerner Research Purpose and Scope of This Practice Guidance This is the first American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) practice guidance on the management of malnutrition, frailty, and sarcopenia in patients with cirrhosis. This guidance represents the consensus of a panel of experts after a thorough experience and common sense to fill in the gaps when appropriate. Our goal was to offer clinicians pragmatic recommendations that could be implemented immediately in clinical practice to target malnutrition, frailty, and sarcopenia in this population. This AASLD guidance document differs from AASLD guidelines, which are supported by systematic reviews of the literature, formal rating of the quality of the evidence and strength of the recommendations, and, if appropriate, meta-analysis of results using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment Development and Evaluation system. In contrast, this guidance was developed by consensus of an expert panel and provides guidance statements based on formal review and analysis of the literature on the topics, with oversight provided by the AASLD Practice Guidelines Committee at all stages of guidance development. The . #Contributed equally. Potential conflict of interest: Dr. Lai received grants from Axcella and Lipocine. Dr. Bernal advises Versantis. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript AASLD Practice Guidelines Committee chose to perform a guidance on this topic because a sufficient number of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) were not available to support the development of a guideline. Definitions of Malnutrition, Frailty, and Sarcopenia and Their Relationship in Patients With Cirrhosis Cirrhosis is a major predisposing condition for the development of malnutrition, frailty, and sarcopenia. Multiple, yet complementary, definitions of these conditions exist in the published domain outside of the field of hepatology; but consensus definitions have not yet been established by the AASLD for patients with cirrhosis. Furthermore, there has been ambiguity related to operationalization of these constructs in clinical practice. To address this, we offer definitions of the theoretical constructs of malnutrition, frailty, and sarcopenia as commonly represented
