HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, cirrhosis, frailty, sarcopenia, manuscript, author manuscript, author, muscle, patients cirrhosis, liver, frailty sarcopenia, manuscript author, mass, intake, associated


an muscle wasting might be described as “malnourished,” “frail,” and “sarcopenic,” each descriptor conveying similar information about the patient’s poor clinical condition and in understanding each as a separate entity as well as the relationship between the three in order to develop tailored behavioral interventions and targeted pharmacotherapies for these conditions. Herein, we propose a conceptual framework for this relationship (Fig. 1). There are a number of factors that lead to malnutrition in patients with cirrhosis, which is challenging to identify at the bedside unless it manifests phenotypically as frailty and/or sarcopenia. Malnutrition is not the only factor that contributes to frailty and sarcopenia; other factors such as cirrhosis complications, other systems-related factors (e.g., systemic inflammation, metabolic dysregulation), physical inactivity, and environmental/organizational factors can contribute to frailty and/or sarcopenia within or independent of the malnutrition pathway. In addition, frailty and sarcopenia can contribute to each other—impaired muscle contractile function can accelerate loss of muscle mass and vice versa. It is these clinical phenotypes— frailty and sarcopenia—that ultimately lead to adverse health outcomes including hepatic posttransplant outcomes, and increased overall risk of death. Factors That Contribute to Frailty and Sarcopenia in Patients With Cirrhosis Here, we describe the factors that have been shown to contribute to frailty and sarcopenia in patients with cirrhosis. We acknowledge that these factors are, in some cases, interrelated; broadly as (1) malnutrition, (2) cirrhosis-related, (3) other systems–related, (4) physical inactivity, and (5) environmental/organizational factors. MALNUTRITION Impaired Intake of Macronutrients—Reduced oral intake results from many factors including early satiety, anorexia, nausea and vomiting, dysgeusia, diet unpalatability (e.g., low sodium or low potassium), impaired level of consciousness, free water restriction, and frequent fasting due to procedures and hospitalizations.(5) Excess oral intake is a root cause of obesity and is influenced by a variety of biological, sociocultural, and psychological factors.(6) Many patients with cirrhosis have limited knowledge about disease self-management, including nutrition therapy.(7,8) Inadequate food knowledge/preparation skills and food insecurity can impact dietary intake—through either reduced or excess intake —across the spectrum of nutritional disorders from undernutrition to obesity.(7-9) Impaired Intake of Micronutrients—Malabsorption leads to high rates of micronutrient deficiency in patients with cirrhosis. Factors leading to impaired macronutrient intake and absorption also contribute to deficiency of many micronutrients. In particular, folate, Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 September 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript thiamine, zinc, selenium, vitamin D, and vitamin E deficiencies have
