HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, cirrhosis, frailty, sarcopenia, manuscript, author manuscript, author, muscle, patients cirrhosis, liver, frailty sarcopenia, manuscript author, mass, intake, associated


worsening financial strain and thus the ability to provide adequate nutrition and management of cirrhosis complications that contribute to malnutrition. Organizational Factors—Factors at the local, community, and national levels can exacerbate the development of malnutrition, frailty, and sarcopenia in this population. Community-level barriers to access to nutritious food may accelerate the development of all of these factors, including obesity, in some populations and drive adverse outcomes. In pediatric liver transplant recipients, neighborhood deprivation, an administrative metric of socioeconomic status, has been shown to be independently associated with mortality.(87) Given the complexity of managing patients with cirrhosis, there may be insufficient time during clinical visits to devote to identifying factors and developing strategies to target the contributing causes. Although a referral to, or comanagement with, a registered dietician care systems may not offer this resource or allow for longitudinal follow-up to assess for response to treatment recommendations. Furthermore, there may be confusion about registered dietician), despite the importance of a multimodal, multidisciplinary approach. Clinical Manifestations of Muscle Dysfunction: Frailty and Sarcopenia FRAILTY Assessment of Frailty in Adults and Children—Tools to assess frailty as a multidimensional construct (e.g., global frailty) or its individual components (e.g., physical frailty, disability, functional status) that have been studied in adults or children with cirrhosis are listed in Table 2.(115-128) The tools are organized in the table from subjective, survey- based tools assessed by the patient, caregiver, or clinician to objective, performance-based assessments. The majority of these tools have been studied in the ambulatory setting only, underscoring the original “geriatric” construct of frailty as a chronic state of decreased physiologic reserve. However, the strong prognostic value of the two tools that have been studied in the acute care setting—activities of daily living (ADLs) and Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS)—highlights the pragmatic need for tools to measure the effects of frailty and sarcopenia in patients with acute cirrhosis complications. Some scales have validated thresholds to grade the severity of frailty. Specifically, patients can be categorized as having high, moderate, or low performance status using KPS thresholds of 80-100, 50-70, or 10-40, respectively.(88,89) The Liver Frailty Index also has established cut-points to define robust (Liver Frailty Index < 3.2), prefrail (Liver Frailty Index 3.2-4.3), and frail (Liver Frailty Index ≥ 4.4).(90,91) Poor performance according to some scales (e.g., ADLs), however, suggests a greater burden of functional deficits than others (e.g., walk speed). The only tools that have also evaluated the
