HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, cirrhosis, frailty, sarcopenia, manuscript, author manuscript, author, muscle, patients cirrhosis, liver, frailty sarcopenia, manuscript author, mass, intake, associated


independent risk factor for mortality in patients with cirrhosis.(70,139) Rates of sarcopenic obesity are likely to increase as cirrhosis related to NAFLD increases. Practical Considerations for Assessing Frailty and Sarcopenia in Clinical and Research Settings Measures of muscle mass, particularly by cross-sectional imaging, have the advantage of being objective, reliable, and more easily reproducible than measures of muscle function. However, despite the prognostic importance of sarcopenia in patients with cirrhosis, its for assessment. On the other hand, many tools to assess frailty can be administered quickly in the ambulatory setting and at low cost and, perhaps most importantly, can be repeated at follow-up intervals. Furthermore, measures of muscle contractile function may be more closely associated than measures of muscle mass, with additional patient-reported outcomes including depression and the ability to complete basic life activities.(98,111,113,179,180) to measure frailty or sarcopenia (or both) depends on the specific clinical scenario and resources available. Given the ease, low cost, and repeatability of frailty metrics, we recommend routine assessment of frailty using a standardized tool—from which there are many to choose (Table 2)—in all ambulatory patients with cirrhosis. Assessment of muscle mass, on the other hand, may be useful in select groups, especially those in whom measures of frailty are unobtainable or unreliable. Such groups may include hospitalized patients, who often cannot perform performance-based tests of muscle contractile function. In this setting, preserved muscle mass may be an indicator of underlying physiologic reserve and suggest high potential for reversal of the patient’s acute presentation. Children with end-stage liver Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 September 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript disease represent another subgroup in whom assessment of muscle mass may be more useful than measures of muscle contractile function given the limitations of performance-based testing in very young individuals (including infants). For the purposes of research, frailty and sarcopenia represent important and complementary endpoints because they are robust and consistent predictors of outcomes in patients with cirrhosis. Given that the pathophysiology of sarcopenia in patients with cirrhosis is better elucidated than frailty,(57) sarcopenia may offer more precise mechanistic targets for drug development. In addition, assessment of muscle mass does not require active patient participation and therefore may be more appropriate as a research tool in patients who are critically ill and immobilized (e.g., on mechanical ventilation). However, frailty has the advantage of directly measuring how an individual functions and
