HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, cirrhosis, frailty, sarcopenia, manuscript, author manuscript, author, muscle, patients cirrhosis, liver, frailty sarcopenia, manuscript author, mass, intake, associated


appropriate as a research tool in patients who are critically ill and immobilized (e.g., on mechanical ventilation). However, frailty has the advantage of directly measuring how an individual functions and correlating strongly with how the individual feels, so frailty may be a more direct measure of a patient’s quality of life than sarcopenia. For these reasons, we recommend the inclusion of both frailty and sarcopenia as complementary endpoints in research studies. Interventions ALGORITHM FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF MALNUTRITION, FRAILTY, AND SARCOPENIA IN CLINICAL PRACTICE Ideally, all patients with cirrhosis would receive intensive efforts to preserve muscle mass and contractile function on diagnosis of cirrhosis, but we recognize that this is not practical in most clinical settings given resource limitations. In an effort to guide the greatest resource allocation to those with the greatest need, we have grounded our recommendations within a representing different aims at different stages of disease requiring increasing intensities of assessment and action (Fig. 2). “Primary prevention” refers to routine screening to identify patients with sarcopenia or frailty. “Secondary prevention” refers to the initiation of therapy in patients diagnosed with sarcopenia or frailty. “Tertiary prevention” refers to the intensification of therapy in patients with sarcopenia or frailty not responding to first-line therapy. The ultimate goal is to prevent the occurrence of adverse health outcomes attributable to malnutrition, frailty, and sarcopenia. assessment, and management of malnutrition, frailty, and sarcopenia in patients with cirrhosis (Fig. 3). Key to this algorithm is the importance of reassessment of malnutrition risk, frailty, and sarcopenia—whether it be rescreening for the development or evaluating for worsening of these conditions. Although definitive intervals for reassessment have not been established in the literature, there are three points that have informed our recommendations for reassessment intervals. First, rates of frailty and sarcopenia increase with worsening liver disease severity, so patients with decompensated cirrhosis should be interventions that target muscle dysfunction, such as testosterone,(67) nocturnal nutritional supplementation(181) or exercise,(79,80) evaluated outcomes at intervals no shorter than 8 weeks but as long as 3, 6, and 12 months. Third, the recent International Conference of Frailty and Sarcopenia Research consensus guidelines on frailty screening and management Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 September 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript in primary care recommended screening for frailty (in the general geriatric population) on an annual basis.(182) Based on these points, we recommend that reassessment of malnutrition risk
