HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, cirrhosis, frailty, sarcopenia, manuscript, author manuscript, author, muscle, patients cirrhosis, liver, frailty sarcopenia, manuscript author, mass, intake, associated


Manuscript Author Manuscript in primary care recommended screening for frailty (in the general geriatric population) on an annual basis.(182) Based on these points, we recommend that reassessment of malnutrition risk (refer to the “Screening for Malnutrition Risk” section), frailty, and sarcopenia occurs at least annually for patients with well-compensated disease but as frequently as every 8-12 weeks among those with decompensated cirrhosis and/or those undergoing active management for malnutrition, frailty, and sarcopenia. Ideally, a multidisciplinary team, consisting of the patient’s primary care provider, gastroenterologist/hepatologist, registered dietician, certified exercise physiologist/physical patients with serious medical conditions, including advanced liver disease—would be involved with each level of management; but this may not be feasible in many practice settings. At a minimum, a patient should be referred to a registered dietician and a certified exercise physiologist/physical therapist if malnutrition, frailty, and/or sarcopenia are progressive despite primary and secondary preventive efforts. Given the interdependence of malnutrition, frailty, and sarcopenia in patients with cirrhosis, interventions that target one condition likely impact the other two conditions as well. Here, we provide pragmatic guidance for the management of malnutrition, frailty, and sarcopenia in patients with cirrhosis (Fig. 4). This information was intended for medical providers who are not specialists in nutrition or exercise to engage in primary and secondary prevention efforts (Fig. 2). SCREENING FOR MALNUTRITION RISK Multiple tools to screen for malnutrition have been evaluated in patients with cirrhosis. been the most consistently associated with a diagnosis of malnutrition.(185-187) Patients are classified into three nutritional risk categories (low, moderate, and high) based on a combination of (1) presence of acute hepatitis or need for enteral nutritional support; (2) low BMI, unexplained weight loss, or maintenance of volitional nutritional intake; and (3) whether fluid overload interferes with ability to eat. Patients at high risk for malnutrition based on the RFH-NPT classification system have been shown to experience worse clinical outcomes including reduced survival, worsened liver function, and reduced quality of life. (187) Improvement in the RFH-NPT has been associated with improved survival.(187) CIRRHOSIS-RELATED INTERVENTIONS Disease-Specific—When possible, the cause of underlying chronic liver disease should be addressed. Eradication of chronic HCV is associated with a reduction in systemic inflammation, although levels of inflammatory biomarkers among individuals with advanced fibrosis remained elevated above levels measured in individuals who are not infected with HCV. Alcohol-associated skeletal myopathy may be partially reversible with alcohol cessation.(188) Although the exact mechanisms linking NAFLD with
