HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, cirrhosis, frailty, sarcopenia, manuscript, author manuscript, author, muscle, patients cirrhosis, liver, frailty sarcopenia, manuscript author, mass, intake, associated


remained elevated above levels measured in individuals who are not infected with HCV. Alcohol-associated skeletal myopathy may be partially reversible with alcohol cessation.(188) Although the exact mechanisms linking NAFLD with sarcopenia and sarcopenic obesity are not well understood, the shared pathophysiologic processes of chronic inflammation and insulin resistance (that lead to both NAFLD and sarcopenia) suggest that interventions targeting NAFLD have the potential to prevent muscle loss. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 September 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Management of HE—A strong theoretical basis exists for the management of frailty and sarcopenia with agents that lower circulating blood ammonia concentration or reduce its production. In an animal model, combined use of rifaximin and L-ornithine L-aspartate lowered plasma and muscle ammonia concentrations and improved muscle mass and function.(189) These data raise the possibility that agents used to manage HE may have a role in prevention and treatment of sarcopenia as well. However, data specifically evaluating the benefit of HE management strategies on muscle contractile function or muscle mass in patients with cirrhosis are lacking. Carnitine plays a key role in mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation, a process impaired by ammonia and central to mitochondrial function and energy metabolism. In small studies, administration of L-carnitine was associated with dose-related lowering of blood ammonia levels, a lower rate of muscle loss, reversal of existing sarcopenia, and increased levels of physical activity(190-192) However, a recent systematic review did not show benefit of acetyl-L-carnitine for the treatment of HE,(193) so its availability for the management of frailty and/or sarcopenia in clinical practice may be limited. Management of Ascites—Medical therapy of fluid retention should be optimized as ascites and edema lead to early satiety, limit exercise capacity, and compromise mobility. In some patients, therapeutic paracentesis may improve anorexia, satiety, caloric intake, and exercise tolerance as well as reduce REE.(52,53,194) Use of loop diuretics in patients with cirrhosis and ascites has been associated with loss of muscle mass, although this finding is limited to one study and has not been confirmed in other cohorts (and its use must be balanced against the risk of poorly controlled fluid retention).(195) Transjugular Intrahepatic Portosystemic Shunt for Management of Portal Hypertension—Placement of a transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) in patients with portal hypertensive complications has been associated with marked improvement in body composition with gain of lean body mass, lower visceral fat, and an increase in
