HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, cirrhosis, frailty, sarcopenia, manuscript, author manuscript, author, muscle, patients cirrhosis, liver, frailty sarcopenia, manuscript author, mass, intake, associated


resistance exercises, and (3) tailor recommendations based on the physical assessment and reassessments. 1. Assess frailty and/or sarcopenia with a standardized tool. This should occur at baseline and longitudinally to assess response to the intervention. Improvement in frailty has been associated with lower rates of mortality compared with worsening of frailty in patients with decompensated cirrhosis.(92) Data are lacking on the potential benefits of changes in sarcopenia. 2. Recommend a combination of aerobic and resistance exercises. Activity-based interventions in patients with cirrhosis have ranged in duration from 8 to 64 weeks.(266) Exercise prescriptions can be guided by principles of frequency, intensity, time, and type, as detailed in the management toolbox (Fig. 4) and adapted from the American College of Sports Medicine.(267) Although the type of exercise (e.g., aerobic only or combination aerobic and resistance training) has varied in these studies, the general consensus is that the optimal activity- based intervention should include a combination of aerobic and resistance training. The theoretical framework for this recommendation is that aerobic training may address impaired muscular endurance and cardiopulmonary fitness, whereas resistance training specifically addresses skeletal muscle strength and mass.(263) Data on what constitutes an adequate level of aerobic activity in patients with cirrhosis are limited, although it is reasonable to follow Centers for Disease Control guidelines to achieve 150-300 minutes of moderate to vigorous intensity exercise per week and muscle-strengthening exercises at least 2 days per week.(268) The use of technology, including fitness trackers, can provide more accurate and objective data on an individual’s actual physical activity better than self-report alone.(76) Smartphone-based fitness apps designed for persons with cirrhosis may have a role in facilitating increased exercise and activity in patients with cirrhosis.(269) Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 September 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 3. Tailor recommendations based on baseline assessment and reassessments. This includes modifying the intensity of the physical activity intervention based on the presence of frailty and/or sarcopenia.(270) It also includes adapting recommendations based on risk for adverse events related to increased mobility, such as musculoskeletal injury and falls.(271) Studies evaluating activity-based interventions in patients with cirrhosis to date have demonstrated a good safety profile of exercise,(238,272,273) but most studies to date have primarily included patients with well-compensated cirrhosis. A number of unanswered questions regarding an exercise program in cirrhosis remain, including the duration, time of day, and impact of concurrent exercise on
