HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, cirrhosis, frailty, sarcopenia, manuscript, author manuscript, author, muscle, patients cirrhosis, liver, frailty sarcopenia, manuscript author, mass, intake, associated


primarily included patients with well-compensated cirrhosis. A number of unanswered questions regarding an exercise program in cirrhosis remain, including the duration, time of day, and impact of concurrent exercise on responses.(274) Notwithstanding these, it is prudent for patients to optimize their portal hypertensive complications (e.g., ascites control, variceal prophylaxis, optimal HE therapies) before initiating an activity-based program. INTERVENTIONS TARGETING OTHER SYSTEMS Hormone-Associated Interventions—In one study of 101 male patients with cirrhosis and low testosterone (defined as total testosterone < 12 nmol/L or free testosterone < 230 pmol/L), testosterone replacement increased muscle mass, decreased fat mass, and improved glucose metabolism.(67) The anabolic effect of testosterone on muscle may be related to suppression of muscle cell apoptosis and myostatin production.(275) However, exogenous testosterone is also associated with increased risk for HCC and thrombophilia. Testosterone therapy may be indicated for some men with cirrhosis, but the risk/benefit profile must be individualized. For men with a personal or family history of HCC, prostate cancer, or thrombophilia, the risk of testosterone replacement may outweigh potential benefits. Suggestions for Future Research In patients with cirrhosis, frailty and sarcopenia are prevalent and lethal. The last decade has welcomed a large body of literature solidifying the importance of frailty and sarcopenia on outcomes in patients with cirrhosis and has brought with it exciting opportunities for future research. Although the possibilities are endless, we highlight three that we believe are the most urgently needed: 1. Standardized, feasible assessment of frailty and sarcopenia in diverse populations acuity. The literature has been lacking on detailed comparisons of frailty and sarcopenia by not only biological sex but also self-identified gender. Cohorts should be enriched with patients of diverse racial/ethnic backgrounds to better understand variation in racial/ethnic differences in manifestations of Lastly, more studies are needed in patients with decompensated cirrhosis, particularly those who are acutely ill. 2. Longitudinal assessment of frailty and sarcopenia. This includes evaluation of the natural progression as well as predictors of accelerated decline. Studies evaluating any treatments in this population (e.g., antiviral agents, alcohol Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2022 September 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript abstinence, management of ascites, TIPS, liver transplantation) should also investigate the impact of those interventions on muscle function and muscle mass. 3. Development of therapeutics and multimodal strategies targeting frailty and sarcopenia. Frailty and sarcopenia are measurable and clinically significant. The objective measurement of these conditions enables
