Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


1 Recommendations 1.1 Dabigatran etexilate is recommended as an option for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism within its licensed indication, that is, in people with non- valvular atrial fibrillation with 1 or more of the following risk factors: • previous stroke, transient ischaemic attack or systemic embolism • left ventricular ejection fraction below 40% • symptomatic heart failure of New York Heart Association (NYHA) class 2 or above • age 75 years or older • age 65 years or older with 1 of the following: diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease or hypertension. 1.2 Decide whether to start treatment with dabigatran etexilate after an informed discussion with the person about its risks and benefits compared with warfarin, apixaban, edoxaban and rivaroxaban. For people taking warfarin, consider the potential risks and benefits of switching to dabigatran etexilate taking into account their level of international normalised ratio (INR) control. 2 The technology 2.1 Dabigatran etexilate (Pradaxa, Boehringer Ingelheim; hereafter referred to as dabigatran) is an orally administered anticoagulant that inhibits the thrombin enzyme. Dabigatran has a UK marketing authorisation for the 'prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation with 1 or more of the following risk factors: • previous stroke, transient ischaemic attack, or systemic embolism • left ventricular ejection fraction below 40% • symptomatic heart failure of New York Heart Association (NYHA) class 2 or above • age 75 years or over • age 65 years or over with 1 of the following: diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, or hypertension'. 2.2 The summary of product characteristics states that the recommended daily dose of dabigatran is 300 mg taken as one 150-mg capsule twice daily. Therapy is continued long term. For patients aged 75 to 80 years, a dose of 220 mg taken as one 110-mg capsule twice daily can be considered at the discretion of the physician for individual patients whose thromboembolic risk is low and bleeding risk is high. Patients aged 80 years or older should be treated with a daily dose of 220 mg taken as one 110-mg capsule twice daily because of the increased risk of bleeding in this population. 2.3 Dabigatran is contraindicated in people with severe renal impairment, active clinically significant bleeding, organic lesions at risk of bleeding, impairment of haemostasis, and hepatic impairment or liver disease expected to have an impact on survival. Concomitant treatment with systemic ketoconazole,
