Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


clinically significant bleeding, organic lesions at risk of bleeding, impairment of haemostasis, and hepatic impairment or liver disease expected to have an impact on survival. Concomitant treatment with systemic ketoconazole, cyclosporine, itraconazole or tacrolimus is also contraindicated. The most common adverse events in people receiving dabigatran are anaemia, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, dyspepsia, gastrointestinal haemorrhage, genitourinary haemorrhage (patients may notice blood in their urine), nausea and nose bleeds. For full details of adverse reactions and contraindications, see the summary of product characteristics. 2.4 Dabigatran is available as 110 mg and 150 mg capsules and comes in packs of 60 capsules. The manufacturer has stated that the cost to the NHS of a pack of 60 capsules of either dabigatran 110 mg or 150 mg will be £75.60 (excluding VAT). The cost per day per patient based on the recommended dosage will be £2.52 (excluding VAT). Costs may vary in different settings because of negotiated procurement discounts. 3 The manufacturer's submission The Appraisal Committee considered evidence submitted by the manufacturer of dabigatran and a review of this submission by the Evidence Review Group (ERG). 3.1 The manufacturer's submission included 3 trials that directly compared dabigatran with dose-adjusted warfarin: RE-LY, PETRO and 1160.49. The PETRO and 1160.49 trials were both dose-finding studies with safety data collection as the primary objective. The main evidence for clinical effectiveness presented in the manufacturer's submission was based on the RE-LY randomised controlled trial. 3.2 RE-LY was a non-inferiority trial in which 2 blinded doses of dabigatran (110 mg twice daily and 150 mg twice daily) were compared with open-label warfarin (with a target international normalised ratio [INR] of 2.0 to 3.0) for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation and at least 1 additional risk factor for stroke. The RE-LY trial included people with documented atrial fibrillation and at least 1 of the following additional risk factors: history of stroke, transient ischaemic attack, or systemic embolism; left ventricular ejection fraction of less than 40%; symptomatic heart failure; age 75 years or older; age 65 years or older with diabetes mellitus, documented coronary artery disease or hypertension. People were excluded from the RE-LY trial if they had a severe, disabling stroke in the previous 6 months or any stroke within the previous 14 days, conditions associated with increased risk of bleeding, or a contraindication to warfarin treatment. 3.3 The RE-LY study took
