Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


study completed the EQ-5D questionnaire as part of the quality-of-life sub-study). The manufacturer reported that the sub-study was reasonably representative of the overall RE-LY population with patients having similar demographic and disease characteristics. The manufacturer stated that analysing the EQ-5D data for specific events of interest was not possible and the quality-of-life sub-study was unable to provide utility values for event-driven health states to use in the economic model. However, background utility values could be derived from the quality-of-life sub-study for people being treated with warfarin and dabigatran, the details of which are academic-in-confidence and are not reported here. 3.11 The manufacturer performed a mixed-treatment comparison of dabigatran, aspirin monotherapy and aspirin plus clopidogrel. The treatments considered by the manufacturer to be relevant in this analysis were dabigatran 150 mg twice daily, dabigatran 110 mg twice daily, dose-adjusted warfarin, aspirin, aspirin plus clopidogrel, and placebo. An additional sequential regimen of dabigatran was used in the mixed-treatment comparison. This was intended to reflect the use of dabigatran according to the licensed regimen which is 150 mg twice daily in people up to the age of 80 years, and then 110 mg twice daily in those aged 80 years and older. Results from the RE-LY trial and the mixed-treatment comparison were very similar for both dabigatran doses compared with dose- adjusted warfarin. 3.12 The manufacturer's economic evaluation was based on a cost–utility analysis designed to compare the costs and outcomes of dabigatran with treatments used in the UK (warfarin, aspirin and aspirin plus clopidogrel). The manufacturer developed a Markov model that used 3 levels of disability (independent, moderate and severe) and death to define health states. A hypothetical cohort entered the model at risk of specified clinical events and was on 1 of the treatments under comparison. They moved between health states when a clinical event occurred and their disability status changed. The clinical events considered were ischaemic stroke, intracranial haemorrhage, haemorrhagic stroke, extracranial haemorrhage, systemic embolism, transient ischaemic attack and acute myocardial infarction. All clinical outcomes were associated with acute costs and disutility. Further longer-term costs and disutility beyond the acute stage were associated with ischaemic stroke, haemorrhagic stroke and intracranial haemorrhage. The model permitted 1 clinical event per 3-month cycle over a lifetime horizon. The model also allowed for a switch to second-line treatment or a discontinuation of treatment. 3.13 The manufacturer presented 2 economic models: a single-dose model and
