Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


over a lifetime horizon. The model also allowed for a switch to second-line treatment or a discontinuation of treatment. 3.13 The manufacturer presented 2 economic models: a single-dose model and a sequential regimen model. In the single-dose model, the cohort with atrial fibrillation received either 110 mg twice daily or 150 mg twice daily throughout their treatment. In the sequential regimen model, the cohort was divided by age and modelled separately. The model for people younger than 80 years assumed that treatment began with dabigatran 150 mg twice daily, and switched to dabigatran 110 mg twice daily when the age of 80 years was reached. The model for people aged 80 years or older at baseline assumed a dose of dabigatran 110 mg twice daily throughout. Therefore, the sequential regimen model resulted in 2 sets of outputs: a sequential regimen model for people starting treatment younger than 80 years (incorporating a life-time horizon including the switch to 110 mg twice daily at 80 years) and a sequential regimen model for those starting treatment at 80 years or older. 3.14 The event risk for all treatment strategies was applied to the baseline risk of events in people treated with warfarin in the RE-LY trial. Therefore, treatment effects were converted into relative risks and applied to the warfarin arm of the RE-LY trial. The relative risks for the various clinical events while on treatment with dabigatran 110 mg twice daily and 150 mg twice daily were obtained from the RE-LY trial. In the sequential regimen model, the relative risks were derived from the post hoc subgroup analyses of people older and younger than 80 years of age. The relative risks for aspirin, aspirin plus clopidogrel and placebo were obtained from the mixed-treatment comparison. 3.15 The manufacturer's economic evaluation focused on health-related quality of life associated with disability and disutility caused by the various clinical events. The baseline utility value for people with atrial fibrillation in the base-case analyses was taken from the RE-LY quality-of-life sub-study. Utility values associated with clinical events and disability status were derived from published sources. 3.16 The manufacturer's model considered resource costs associated with anti- thrombotic treatment, acute event costs, and long-term follow-up costs resulting from disability. These costs were derived from the national payment by results tariff, systematic reviews and a manufacturer-sponsored study based on the Oxford Vascular study (OXVASC) cohort. The cost of dabigatran was £2.52
