Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


from £7,314 to £17,100 per QALY gained. The cost effectiveness of the dabigatran sequential regimen in people starting treatment when older than 80 years was most sensitive to risk of ischaemic stroke and high baseline CHADS scores. Setting the relative risks for ischaemic stroke to the 2 95% upper confidence limits increased the base-case ICER for the dabigatran sequential regimen in people older than 80 years compared with warfarin from £7,873 to £46,509 per QALY gained. The ICER for the dabigatran sequential regimen in people starting treatment when older than 80 years compared with warfarin increased from the base-case estimate of £7,873 to £21,129 per QALY gained for a group with a CHADS score of 5. The ICER for dabigatran 150 mg 2 twice daily compared with warfarin was robust to the parameters and ranges tested by the manufacturer, and the highest ICER was £10,234 per QALY gained. The cost effectiveness of dabigatran 110 mg twice daily in relation to warfarin was highly sensitive to high baseline CHADS scores, risk of ischaemic stroke and 2 risk of intracranial haemorrhage. 3.20 In the probabilistic sensitivity analysis, the ICERs for the dabigatran sequential regimens in people starting treatment when younger than 80 years and in people starting treatment when older than 80 years compared with warfarin were £7,811 and £11,912 per QALY gained respectively. The probabilistic ICERs for dabigatran 150 mg and 110 mg twice daily compared with warfarin were £7,940 and £15,867 per QALY gained respectively. 3.21 The ERG noted that the manufacturer's submission included 2 generally well- conducted systematic reviews: the first was of dabigatran trials in the relevant indication, and the second was of all potentially relevant pharmacological interventions for the prevention of stroke in people with atrial fibrillation. The ERG commented that the RE-LY trial was of good quality and that the manufacturer appropriately concentrated on the results from this trial. The ERG highlighted the limitations of non-inferiority trials, such as establishing the non-inferiority margin and the population on which to base analyses. Overall, the ERG felt that adequate measures were taken by the manufacturer to reduce the impact of potential bias associated with non-inferiority trials. 3.22 The ERG commented that the results of the RE-LY trial showed both doses of dabigatran to be non-inferior to dose-adjusted warfarin in the prevention of stroke or systemic embolism. The ERG noted that a submission from the manufacturer to the FDA
