Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


both doses of dabigatran to be non-inferior to dose-adjusted warfarin in the prevention of stroke or systemic embolism. The ERG noted that a submission from the manufacturer to the FDA indicated that dabigatran 150 mg twice daily reduced the risk of stroke or systemic embolism compared with warfarin in people with good INR control (HR 0.68, 95% CI 0.50 to 0.92 for time in therapeutic INR range 65% or above; HR 0.70, 95% CI 0.51 to 0.96 for time in therapeutic INR range 68% or above). The ERG also highlighted that an analysis in the submission produced for the FDA showed a greater benefit of dabigatran in people with poor INR control than in those whose INR was well controlled (the threshold being the centre-level median of 67%). The FDA report concluded that, although the results showed efficacy of dabigatran in people who had INR control above the centre- level median, the results did not show superiority over warfarin. The submission further subdivided people by INR control (less than 58.5%, 58.5% or above, less than 66.8%, 66.8% or above, and less than 74.2%). This demonstrated that the greatest benefit of dabigatran was in the lowest quartile of INR control and that, in people with good INR control with warfarin, little or no additional benefit in terms of effectiveness would be gained with dabigatran. 3.23 A key uncertainty highlighted by the ERG was the generalisability of the results to people with atrial fibrillation in the NHS. The ERG commented that the definition of moderate or high risk of stroke or systemic embolism in the manufacturer's submission differed slightly to the definition in NICE's original guideline on atrial fibrillation (now replaced by NICE's guideline on atrial fibrillation). The ERG commented that the population in the manufacturer's submission seemed to be at higher risk of stroke because the definition of moderate risk included those aged 75 years and over with no additional risk factors, whereas NICE's previous guideline on atrial fibrillation defined moderate risk as people aged 65 years and over with no additional risk factors. The ERG commented that including the potentially large subgroup of people over 65 years with atrial fibrillation but with no other risk factors for stroke would have been useful, and would reflect NICE's previous guideline on atrial fibrillation more closely and reduce the overall risk level of the population. The clinical specialists advising the ERG noted that
