Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


been useful, and would reflect NICE's previous guideline on atrial fibrillation more closely and reduce the overall risk level of the population. The clinical specialists advising the ERG noted that the threshold for treatment with warfarin seems to be decreasing, therefore decreasing the risk of stroke in the eligible atrial fibrillation population, making the population in the RE-LY trial less representative of clinical practice over time. 3.24 The ERG commented that the general approach taken by the manufacturer to estimate lifetime cost effectiveness was appropriate and met the requirements of the NICE reference case. The ERG noted that the model included most of the relevant clinical events in atrial fibrillation; however, pulmonary embolism was not included in the model. The ERG commented that excluding pulmonary embolism is potentially an optimistic approach in favour of dabigatran because dabigatran is associated with higher rates of pulmonary embolism than warfarin. 3.25 The ERG noted that, although the manufacturer's submission considered the atrial fibrillation population to be heterogeneous, reflected by the distribution of CHADS scores, the manufacturer assumed that all people would be treated the 2 same. The ERG commented that this may be an over-simplification of the decision problem and does not allow the potential impact of clinical heterogeneity on cost effectiveness to be considered. 3.26 The ERG highlighted that acute myocardial infarction and systemic embolism were assumed by the manufacturer to be associated with acute costs and disutility, but not with any ongoing or long-term consequences. The ERG considered this assumption to be over-simplistic and that the effect of including long-term consequences of acute myocardial infarction and systemic embolism on the cost effectiveness of dabigatran is uncertain. The ERG commented that dabigatran was associated with higher discontinuation rates than warfarin in the first 2 years of the trial, which could suggest that people tend to tolerate warfarin better than dabigatran. 3.27 The 2 main weaknesses of the manufacturer's model were considered by the ERG to be related to the sequence of treatments and the cost of anticoagulation monitoring. The ERG commented that the full set of relevant sequences of treatment was not fully investigated by the manufacturer. For example, the ERG considered that starting treatment with dabigatran and subsequently switching to warfarin would be a reasonable treatment sequence, but the manufacturer's model assumed that a person could not switch to warfarin if dabigatran was the first treatment. In addition, the ERG stated
