Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


would be a reasonable treatment sequence, but the manufacturer's model assumed that a person could not switch to warfarin if dabigatran was the first treatment. In addition, the ERG stated that the cost of anticoagulation monitoring was a key driver of the model in terms of resources and costs, and that it was likely that the average cost of monitoring had been overestimated in the model, biasing the results in favour of dabigatran. The ERG also highlighted that its clinical advisers were concerned about the high variability of monitoring costs in practice. This heterogeneity was not considered in the manufacturer's submission. The ERG commented that uncertainty around the monitoring costs was also inadequately modelled in the manufacturer's submission. 3.28 The ERG carried out exploratory cost-effectiveness analyses by subgroups according to INR control with warfarin. The ICER for dabigatran 150 mg twice daily compared with warfarin in people with perfect INR control (that is, in target INR range 100% of the time for the entire duration of treatment) was £60,895 per QALY gained. Dabigatran 110 mg twice daily was dominated by warfarin because it was associated with greater costs but lower health benefits. The group of people with poor INR control was also evaluated by the ERG. The ICER for dabigatran 150 mg twice daily compared with warfarin for people with an INR below 2 was £740 per QALY gained. For people with an INR above 3, warfarin was dominated by dabigatran 150 mg twice daily. The ERG did not include pairwise cost-effectiveness results for dabigatran in the sequential regimen compared with warfarin. The ERG concluded that INR control is a key parameter in the economic evaluation. 3.29 The ERG used 3 approaches to calculate the variable costs of INR monitoring, which it considered had been overestimated in the manufacturer's model. The alternative costs used by the ERG were £279.36, £241.54 and £115.14, instead of £414.90 as assumed by the manufacturer. Adjusting the model to test each individual cost assumption increased the ICER for dabigatran 150 mg twice daily compared with warfarin to £10,528, £11,720 and £15,701 per QALY gained respectively. 3.30 The ERG considered that the disutility of dabigatran captured by the RE-LY quality-of-life sub-study had not been fully reflected in the manufacturer's cost- effectiveness analysis. The disutility associated with dabigatran treatment was tested by the ERG but it did not change the overall conclusions about the cost effectiveness of
