Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


in the manufacturer's cost- effectiveness analysis. The disutility associated with dabigatran treatment was tested by the ERG but it did not change the overall conclusions about the cost effectiveness of this intervention. 3.31 The ERG commented that treatment with dabigatran was associated with an increased incidence of dyspepsia compared with warfarin treatment, but that the model assumed that the cost of dyspepsia was only accrued in the first cycle. The ERG considered that a more conservative approach would be to assume that costs of dyspepsia continue throughout treatment. This caused the ICER for dabigatran 150 mg twice daily compared with warfarin to increase slightly from £6,262 per QALY to £6,659 per QALY gained. 3.32 The ERG highlighted that disability and mortality risk after stroke is considered to be treatment dependent in the manufacturer's model. Therefore, the ERG explored the model assuming that disability caused by stroke is independent of treatment. The ICER for dabigatran 150 mg twice daily compared with warfarin increased from £6,262 to £8,393 per QALY gained. 3.33 The ERG presented analyses using an alternative set of assumptions to those provided by the manufacturer. The ERG's alternative base case assumed: • A patient cohort representing people with atrial fibrillation in the UK, using the data reported by Gallagher et al. (2008). • The variable (per patient) costs of anticoagulant monitoring are £115.14. • People have dyspepsia throughout dabigatran treatment, not just in the first 3 months of treatment. • Disability and mortality risks after stroke are treatment independent. • Disutility associated with dabigatran during the first 12 months of treatment as used in the RE-LY quality-of-life sub-study (the details are academic-in- confidence). 3.34 By introducing these assumptions, the ICER for dabigatran 150 mg twice daily compared with warfarin increased from £6,264 to £24,173 per QALY gained in the ERG's alternative base-case analysis. Manufacturer's additional analyses 3.35 Additional analyses were provided by the manufacturer in response to NICE's request for further clarification on the cost effectiveness of dabigatran presented in the appraisal consultation document. The manufacturer submitted a revised cost-effectiveness analysis of the sequential regimen model comparing dabigatran with warfarin using relative risks from the whole RE-LY trial population rather than from the post hoc subgroup analysis, as requested by the Committee. Given the uncertainty about costs of warfarin prescription and monitoring because of wide variations in local practice, it also conducted sensitivity analyses that varied the annual cost
