Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


document for further comment and consideration of the cost effectiveness of dabigatran in the subgroup of people whose condition is already well controlled on warfarin. The manufacturer highlighted that the INR control analyses submitted to the FDA (see section 3.22) were stratified by time in therapeutic range only in the warfarin arm and should therefore be interpreted with caution. The manufacturer stated that analyses presented in a study by Wallentin et al. (2010), which was stratified on treatment centre time in therapeutic range (a method that maintains randomisation within a centre), would be more relevant if such an analysis were to be carried out. The manufacturer highlighted that the ERG's initial analysis of good INR control (see section 3.28) assumed a time in therapeutic range of 100%, which is unlikely to be achieved in clinical practice for most patients. The manufacturer further explained that for both the full sequential regimen in people starting treatment younger than 80 years and the over 80 cohort, INR would need to be within target range an average of approximately 83% to 85% of the time for the ICERs to be above £30,000 per QALY gained compared with warfarin. 3.39 The ERG provided a critique and exploratory analysis of the manufacturer's additional analyses. The ERG compared inputs in the revised model with inputs used for the original single-dose and sequential regimen model. It commented that the values for ischaemic stroke disability and mortality rates by treatment used in the revised sequential regimen model were the same as those used in the initial sequential regimen model rather than those from the single-dose model. The ERG commented that correcting for this had the effect of reducing the manufacturer's ICERs slightly. The ERG agreed with the manufacturer that the data presented by Gallagher et al. (2008) are not easily adapted to the model. It commented that the General Practice Research Database data presented by the manufacturer have advantages over the Gallagher study in that they are more recent and therefore more reflective of the current UK atrial fibrillation population, and they refer solely to the people with atrial fibrillation for whom dabigatran is licensed. The ERG compared the results of the incremental analyses presented by the manufacturer with the results obtained by the ERG after including the correct values for ischaemic stroke disability and mortality rates by treatment and including all of the assumptions requested by the Committee.
