Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


the results obtained by the ERG after including the correct values for ischaemic stroke disability and mortality rates by treatment and including all of the assumptions requested by the Committee. The ERG commented that its results were broadly in line with those presented by the manufacturer. The ERG's estimate of the ICER for the sequential regimen in people starting treatment when younger than 80 years, including the relative risks from the whole RE-LY trial population, an INR cost of £241.54 and all of the assumptions requested by the Committee, was £18,863 per QALY gained compared with the manufacturer's estimate of £17,660 per QALY gained. 3.40 The ERG acknowledged the manufacturer's view that 100% time in therapeutic range is difficult to achieve in clinical practice. The ERG identified a UK-based study by Jones et al. (2005) that reported that the average time in therapeutic range was 67.9%. The ERG commented that the Jones et al. (2005) study indicated that the people with the best INR control (upper quartile) were within therapeutic range an average of 83.7% of the time, so the ERG performed further exploratory sensitivity analyses testing this value. For the subgroup of patients whose INR is within range 83.7% of the time, the ICER for dabigatran compared with warfarin was £46,989 per QALY gained assuming INR monitoring costs of £241.54 per annum. If the INR costs were increased to £414.90 per annum, the ICER decreased to £31,386 per QALY gained compared with warfarin. The ERG commented that it is unclear how INR monitoring costs vary by time in therapeutic range. The ERG also performed a threshold analysis to estimate the level of time in therapeutic range needed to raise the ICER above £30,000 per QALY gained compared with warfarin, assuming an INR monitoring cost of £241.54 per annum and including all of the ERG's preferred assumptions. The ERG commented that the INR would need to be within the target range an average of 75% to 76% of the time or more for the ICER to be above £30,000 per QALY gained compared with warfarin. 3.41 Full details of all the evidence are in the manufacturer's submission and the ERG report. 4 Consideration of the evidence 4.1 The Appraisal Committee reviewed the data available on the clinical and cost effectiveness of dabigatran, having considered evidence on the nature of atrial fibrillation and the value placed on the benefits of dabigatran
