Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


reviewed the data available on the clinical and cost effectiveness of dabigatran, having considered evidence on the nature of atrial fibrillation and the value placed on the benefits of dabigatran by people with the condition, those who represent them, and clinical specialists. It also took into account the effective use of NHS resources. 4.2 The Committee heard from the clinical specialists and patient experts that the current standard treatment for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial fibrillation is warfarin, and that because of its lower efficacy, aspirin is used only in people for whom warfarin is unsuitable. The Committee also heard that warfarin, although an effective treatment, is associated with a number of problems. The main concerns for people with atrial fibrillation were fear of having a stroke and anxiety about the difficulty of keeping the INR within the satisfactory therapeutic range. The Committee heard from the patient experts that stroke is a major concern for people with atrial fibrillation and that stroke severity is usually greater in this group than in people who have strokes from other causes. The patient experts also highlighted that many people taking warfarin are outside their target therapeutic INR range at any 1 time and that warfarin, unlike dabigatran, is associated with a number of inconveniences that make adherence difficult. These include numerous food and drug interactions that can have an impact on people's work, social and family life, and regular monitoring and dose adjustments that can cause disruption and inconvenience. The Committee accepted the limitations of warfarin therapy, and the considerable effect that it may have on the lives of the people who take it, and recognised the potential benefits of dabigatran for people with atrial fibrillation. 4.3 The Committee considered the clinical-effectiveness data from the RE-LY trial comparing dabigatran with warfarin. It noted that this formed most of the clinical- effectiveness evidence in the manufacturer's submission and was the largest published trial in people with atrial fibrillation. The Committee considered that the RE-LY trial was of good quality but noted that a key uncertainty highlighted by the ERG was the generalisability of the results to people diagnosed with atrial fibrillation in the NHS. The Committee noted that the definition of moderate to high risk of stroke in the RE-LY trial was different from the definition used in NICE's original guideline on atrial fibrillation (now replaced by NICE's
