Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


the definition of moderate to high risk of stroke in the RE-LY trial was different from the definition used in NICE's original guideline on atrial fibrillation (now replaced by NICE's guideline on atrial fibrillation) and did not include people aged 65 years and over with no additional risk factors for stroke, resulting in a higher risk profile in the trial than in the general population eligible for anticoagulation prophylaxis. However, the Committee was persuaded by the clinical specialists that the RE-LY trial included a broad range of people that reflected those seen in UK clinical practice and that the results were applicable to a wide range of people with atrial fibrillation. The Committee concluded that the population included in the trial was appropriate and broadly relevant to UK clinical practice. 4.4 The Committee considered the results of the RE-LY trial. It noted that dabigatran 150 mg twice daily was associated with a statistically significantly lower incidence of stroke or systemic embolism, ischaemic stroke and vascular mortality compared with warfarin, but that there were no statistically significant differences in these outcomes between dabigatran 110 mg twice daily and warfarin. It also noted that both doses of dabigatran were associated with an increased risk of acute myocardial infarction compared with warfarin but that this was not statistically significant. The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that this reflected a small absolute difference in the incidence of acute myocardial infarction between the treatment groups, but it was unclear whether this was because of a protective effect of warfarin or a negative effect of dabigatran treatment, and that the effects did not appear to translate into an increased vascular mortality risk. The Committee concluded that dabigatran 150 mg twice daily was more clinically effective than warfarin in reducing the risk of stroke or systemic embolism, ischaemic stroke and vascular mortality and that this represented an important development for people with atrial fibrillation. It also concluded that the lower 110 mg dabigatran twice-daily dose had shown non-inferiority to warfarin. 4.5 The Committee considered the results of the manufacturer's subgroup analyses. It was aware, however, that the manufacturer's analyses by age had been defined post hoc and it therefore considered that the results should be interpreted with caution. The Committee also considered the results of the manufacturer's pre- planned analyses of people naive to vitamin K antagonists and people who have previously used vitamin K antagonists.
