Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


with caution. The Committee also considered the results of the manufacturer's pre- planned analyses of people naive to vitamin K antagonists and people who have previously used vitamin K antagonists. It noted that dabigatran 150 mg twice daily was associated with a statistically significant reduction in the incidence of stroke or systemic embolism compared with warfarin in both vitamin K antagonist-naive and vitamin K antagonist-experienced subgroups, but dabigatran 110 mg twice daily did not show a statistically significant reduction in either group. The Committee concluded that dabigatran 150 mg twice daily showed increased efficacy compared with warfarin in people with atrial fibrillation irrespective of their previous exposure to vitamin K antagonists. 4.6 The Committee discussed the effectiveness of dabigatran compared with warfarin according to INR control. It noted the evidence presented by the ERG that people with good INR control with warfarin may not gain additional clinical benefit by taking dabigatran. However, the clinical specialists emphasised the importance of the significantly lower rates of intracranial haemorrhage and haemorrhagic stroke associated with both doses of dabigatran compared with warfarin in the RE-LY trial, and that this effect is maintained in people with good INR control. The Committee heard that haemorrhagic stroke and intracranial haemorrhage have devastating and life-threatening consequences and concluded that the lower rates associated with dabigatran represent an important advance in the treatment of atrial fibrillation alongside reduction in ischaemic stroke. It concluded that this applied to all patients with atrial fibrillation, including those with good INR control, and that there were also benefits of taking a treatment that didn't need INR monitoring or dietary restriction. 4.7 The Committee considered the additional adverse events reported in the RE-LY trial. It noted that both doses of dabigatran were associated with statistically significant reductions in the incidence of life-threatening bleeds compared with warfarin. However, it also noted that the incidence of gastrointestinal bleeding, in contrast to cerebral haemorrhage, was statistically significantly higher for both doses of dabigatran, and the comment from the manufacturer that this may be the result of a local effect of the orally administered drug on the gastrointestinal mucosa. Dabigatran 150 mg twice daily was associated with a statistically significantly higher incidence of major and life-threatening gastrointestinal bleeding. The Committee noted that even small changes in total gastrointestinal bleeding rates might have a substantial impact on the provision of services and that major gastrointestinal bleeding is associated with
