Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


The Committee noted that even small changes in total gastrointestinal bleeding rates might have a substantial impact on the provision of services and that major gastrointestinal bleeding is associated with a significant mortality risk. The Committee concluded that treatment with dabigatran resulted in more gastrointestinal bleeding than warfarin, but also recognised the particular importance of the effects of dabigatran on reducing the risk of haemorrhagic stroke and intracranial haemorrhage for people with atrial fibrillation when compared with warfarin. 4.8 The Committee was aware that health-related quality-of-life data were collected in a sub-study of the RE-LY trial. It noted that baseline utility values for people with atrial fibrillation were derived from the sub-study. The Committee agreed that because the sub-study was reasonably representative of the overall RE-LY population, this approach was appropriate. 4.9 The Committee considered the manufacturer's economic model and the critique and exploratory analyses performed by the ERG. The Committee considered the utility values used in the model and noted that it was unclear how the utility values relating to the effect of stroke were derived. However, the Committee agreed with the ERG that the general approach taken by the manufacturer to estimate the lifetime cost effectiveness of dabigatran was appropriate. 4.10 The Committee noted that the manufacturer presented a single-dose model, and a sequential regimen model in which people younger than 80 years began treatment with dabigatran 150 mg twice daily, and at the age of 80 years were switched to dabigatran 110 mg twice daily. As the summary of product characteristics for dabigatran excludes people older than 80 years from treatment with dabigatran 150 mg twice daily because of additional risks in this group, the Committee concluded that the sequence of dabigatran 150 mg twice daily followed by dabigatran 110 mg twice daily once people reach 80 years would be the only regimen appropriate for the assessment of the cost effectiveness of dabigatran relative to warfarin in the whole eligible UK population. 4.11 The Committee heard from the ERG that the relative risks used to inform the manufacturer's original sequential regimen model were derived from people in the younger than 80 years and older than 80 years subgroups of the RE-LY trial that were defined post hoc. It also heard that using relative risks from the whole RE- LY trial population would be more appropriate to determine reliable effectiveness estimates for the dabigatran sequence. Therefore, the Committee
