Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


It also heard that using relative risks from the whole RE- LY trial population would be more appropriate to determine reliable effectiveness estimates for the dabigatran sequence. Therefore, the Committee asked the manufacturer to submit a re-analysis of the data for discussion at the second Appraisal Committee meeting using the relative risks from the whole RE-LY trial population. 4.12 At the first Appraisal Committee meeting, the Committee noted that the ERG had highlighted a number of uncertainties relating to assumptions used in the manufacturer's economic model. First, the Committee noted the ERG's view that an analysis based on an older patient cohort with a lower risk of stroke using data reported by Gallagher et al. (2008) would be more representative of people with atrial fibrillation in the UK than the cohort from the RE-LY trial used by the manufacturer. The Committee accepted that there was uncertainty around which cohort most realistically reflected the population of people with atrial fibrillation in the UK. 4.13 Second, the Committee noted that the ERG questioned whether disability and mortality were independent of the treatment received. The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that the manufacturer's assumption that a stroke would be less severe after treatment with dabigatran than warfarin was plausible and that there is evidence that both the incidence and the severity of stroke may vary according to the treatment received. The Committee also noted the ERG's views about disutility of dabigatran and the inclusion of dyspepsia management costs throughout treatment (see sections 3.30 and 3.31). The Committee agreed that including all of these assumptions would be a more conservative approach. 4.14 Third, the Committee noted the ERG's view that the cost of INR monitoring had been overestimated in the manufacturer's model. The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that the introduction of dabigatran would not result in complete closure of anticoagulation services with release of all the funding, and the manufacturer's estimate (£414.90) was likely to be too high. It also heard that INR monitoring costs varied in different settings and could not be quantified precisely. The Committee agreed that exploring the effect of assuming the alternative INR monitoring costs put forward by the ERG (£115.14, £241.54, £279.36), in addition to the cost assumed in the manufacturer's submission, would enable it to make a more accurate judgement about the cost effectiveness of dabigatran. 4.15 Finally, the Committee noted the ERG's comments that
