Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


cost assumed in the manufacturer's submission, would enable it to make a more accurate judgement about the cost effectiveness of dabigatran. 4.15 Finally, the Committee noted the ERG's comments that the cost effectiveness of dabigatran compared with warfarin varied substantially according to level of INR control in those already being treated with warfarin. In the appraisal consultation document, the manufacturer of dabigatran was therefore asked to provide further analyses addressing the uncertainties outlined in sections 4.11 to 4.15. 4.16 The Committee discussed the manufacturer's revised analyses and the critique and the exploratory analyses performed by the ERG. The Committee noted that the manufacturer's revised analysis included the relative risks from the whole RE- LY trial population rather than from the post hoc subgroup analysis and had explored the effect of varying the cost of INR monitoring as requested. It also noted that the manufacturer's revised analysis incorporated an INR monitoring cost of £241.54 in its base case as opposed to £414.90 in the original submission. The Committee was aware that comments received during the consultation largely agreed that INR monitoring costs are likely to be higher than the ERG's lower estimate of £115.14 and possibly higher than £414.90 in some cases. The Committee accepted the manufacturer's approach, acknowledging that although INR costs may vary widely, this assumption was reasonable. 4.17 The Committee discussed the manufacturer's approach to including the ERG's other preferred assumptions in the revised analysis (see section 3.33). The Committee noted that the Gallagher et al. (2008) data on atrial fibrillation had not been incorporated. However, the Committee accepted the manufacturer's rationale and the supporting views of the ERG for using General Practice Research Database data instead (see section 3.39). The Committee noted that, in its revised analyses, the manufacturer had incorporated the ERG's preferred assumptions about dyspepsia management costs throughout treatment, disability and mortality risks being treatment independent, and disutility associated with dabigatran. It further noted that combining all of these assumptions together with an INR monitoring cost of £241.54 resulted in an ICER for dabigatran of £17,700 per QALY gained for the full sequential regimen in people starting treatment when younger than 80 years and £18,400 per QALY gained in people starting treatment at 80 years and older, compared with warfarin. Finally, the Committee noted that the ERG's analysis, which included all of the requested assumptions, an INR monitoring cost of £241.54, and the corrected values
