Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


and older, compared with warfarin. Finally, the Committee noted that the ERG's analysis, which included all of the requested assumptions, an INR monitoring cost of £241.54, and the corrected values for ischaemic stroke and disability rates (see section 3.39) resulted in an ICER of £18,900 per QALY gained for the sequential regimen in people starting treatment younger than 80 years, compared with warfarin. The Committee concluded that this was broadly in line with the manufacturer's estimate and that the ICERs presented by the manufacturer were robust to the changes requested. The Committee therefore accepted the manufacturer's approach and concluded that the most plausible ICERs for the whole population eligible for dabigatran were within the range normally considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources, being less than £20,000 per QALY gained. 4.18 The Committee discussed comments from consultees that suggested it may be appropriate to recommend dabigatran for use only in people with atrial fibrillation whose INR is not well controlled on warfarin. The Committee was satisfied that the technology was a cost-effective treatment for the whole patient group. It noted that robust evidence of differential clinical effectiveness and cost effectiveness, with clear justification of the threshold level chosen, would be needed to select out a subgroup, based on INR control, for whom dabigatran would not be recommended. 4.19 The Committee was aware of the need for guidance to apply equally to those already on warfarin and to those newly diagnosed with atrial fibrillation. The Committee noted that, for people newly diagnosed but not already taking an anticoagulant, any stratification of the population according to INR control would mean that all patients would have to try warfarin for at least a few months to assess whether the INR was well controlled and to estimate the time in therapeutic range. The Committee heard from clinical specialists that many of the significant complications of warfarin therapy are experienced in the first months of treatment before the dose is established and stabilised. The Committee accepted therefore that a large number of people having a trial of warfarin at initial diagnosis could be expected to switch to dabigatran. It also accepted that it was not reasonable to expect all patients to try warfarin first, with the associated risks, for the purpose of selecting out a subgroup for whom dabigatran was less cost effective. 4.20 The Committee was also aware of the estimates of the time
