Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: dabigatran, warfarin, people, manufacturer, erg, treatment, committee, daily, twice, twice daily, stroke, inr, compared, dabigatran twice, years


the associated risks, for the purpose of selecting out a subgroup for whom dabigatran was less cost effective. 4.20 The Committee was also aware of the estimates of the time that the INR in people already taking warfarin would need to be in the target range for the ICERs for dabigatran compared with warfarin to be above £30,000 per QALY gained. Assuming an INR monitoring cost of £241.54 per annum, the manufacturer and ERG estimated an average of 83% to 85% and 75% to 76% of the time respectively. The Committee noted that this would apply to only a proportion of the whole population. The Committee was aware that the average time spent in therapeutic range for the UK centres in the RE-LY trial was 72%, and in the UK- based study by Jones et al. (2005) there was an average time in therapeutic range of 67.9%. It noted the ERG's analysis that explored the effects of time in therapeutic range on the cost effectiveness of dabigatran compared with warfarin. This calculated the ICER for the people with the best-controlled INR (that is, within range 83.7% of the time) at £47,000 per QALY gained. However, this figure incorporated INR monitoring costs of £241.54 (per annum) and the ICER reduced considerably if higher INR monitoring costs of £414.90 per annum were used. The Committee concluded that evidence for stratifying by INR control was insufficient to exclude the minority of people with very good control from the recommendation of dabigatran as a potential treatment option, and that the ICER for the whole population should be the basis of the recommendation. 4.21 The Committee was mindful of the higher gastrointestinal bleeding rates associated with dabigatran and of the relatively short-term safety data compared with the established standard of care, warfarin. It was also mindful that for those with very well-controlled INR on warfarin, the clinical benefits are likely to be less than for those with poorly controlled INR. The Committee therefore concluded that the decision about whether to start treatment with dabigatran in people with atrial fibrillation should be made after an informed discussion between the responsible clinician and the person about the safety risks and benefits of dabigatran compared with warfarin. It also concluded that, for people currently receiving warfarin, the potential risks and benefits of switching to dabigatran should be considered in light of their level of INR control. 4.22 The
