Cardiac Sarcoidosis
KEYWORDS: cardiac, sarcoidosis, patients, cardiac sarcoidosis, ventricular, heart, involvement, block, systemic, icd, systemic sarcoidosis, left, therapy, class, biopsy


Sarcoidosis is a multisystem, chronic inflammatory/granulomatous disorder that often affects the heart, causing conduction disturbances, bradyarrhythmias, tachyarrhythmias, and sometimes cardiomyopathy. Diagnosis is suspected in patients with known sarcoidosis or young patients who have otherwise unexplained heart block, arrhythmias, or cardiomyopathy. Treatment is immunosuppression and sometimes an implantable cardioverter- defibrillator (ICD). (See also Overview of Arrhythmogenic Cardiomyopathies and Overview of Arrhythmias.) Systemic sarcoidosis is reviewed elsewhere in THE MANUAL. This topic focuses on the cardiac effects of sarcoidosis. The inflammatory process in sarcoidosis leads to formation of noncaseating granulomas and fibrosis in any tissue. In patients with clinically apparent cardiac sarcoidosis, the conducting system and/or myocardium are typically involved, but valvular, papillary muscle, and pericardial involvement may also occur. Nearly all patients with cardiac sarcoidosis have involvement of other organs (typically the lungs), but cardiac sarcoidosis may rarely occur in isolation. About 25% of patients with systemic sarcoidosis have cardiac involvement identifiable using imaging techniques, but cardiac involvement is symptomatic in only about 20% of these (5% of all patients with sarcoidosis) (1). Systemic sarcoidosis shows marked regional variation in incidence, being higher in patients of Northern European or African descent, particularly African American females. Nevertheless, in patients with systemic sarcoidosis men are more likely to manifest cardiac sarcoidosis and no racial difference in cardiac sarcoidosis is apparent in North American studies (2). The predilection of cardiac sarcoid involvement of the interventricular septum causes atrioventricular (AV) conduction system blocks in many patients with cardiac sarcoidosis. Involvement of the conducting system may cause first-, second-, or third-degree AV block, left anterior or left posterior hemiblock, and left or right bundle branch block. Involvement of the sinus node artery may produce the bradyarrhythmias of sinus node dysfunction. 1/6 Myocardial involvement may produce tachyarrhythmias, predominantly ventricular tachycardia (VT), but atrial tachycardias, atrial flutter, and atrial fibrillation may also occur. Infiltration of the myocardium may cause an isolated left ventricular, an isolated right ventricular, a biventricular, dilated or restrictive cardiomyopathy. Pericardial involvement may cause pericardial effusion or contribute to restrictive physiology. Multifactorial pulmonary hypertension is also common. Symptoms and Signs of Cardiac Sarcoidosis Most patients with cardiac sarcoidosis are asymptomatic, but the associated bradyarrhythmias and tachyarrhythmias may cause palpitations, syncope, and sometimes cardiac arrest or sudden death. A significant number of deaths resulting from systemic sarcoidosis are due to sudden cardiac death, including in many patients who have had no previous indication of cardiac involvement.
