Cardiac Sarcoidosis
KEYWORDS: cardiac, sarcoidosis, patients, cardiac sarcoidosis, ventricular, heart, involvement, block, systemic, icd, systemic sarcoidosis, left, therapy, class, biopsy


sudden death. A significant number of deaths resulting from systemic sarcoidosis are due to sudden cardiac death, including in many patients who have had no previous indication of cardiac involvement. Cardiomyopathy may cause any heart failure symptom, including exertional dyspnea, fatigue, and peripheral edema. In most patients, disease manifests between the ages of 25 to 60 years. Diagnosis of Cardiac Sarcoidosis Clinical suspicion ECG, echocardiography, and sometimes cardiac MRI with late gadolinium enhancement and/or fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET) scan Biopsy of noncardiac tissue that appears affected by systemic sarcoidosis Rarely cardiac biopsy About 35% of the patients with cardiac sarcoidosis are already known to have systemic sarcoidosis or have clinical evidence of extracardiac sarcoidosis at presentation (1). Patients with known sarcoidosis and no cardiac symptoms should typically have periodic ECGs and echocardiography to screen for cardiac involvement. If cardiac symptoms, signs, or test abnormalities are present, cardiac MRI with gadolinium should also be done. Ambulatory ECG monitoring should be done if symptoms suggest a rhythm or conduction disturbance. An FDG-PET scan provides additional information regarding active inflammation and is usually also done. 2/6 In patients not yet diagnosed with systemic sarcoidosis, diagnosis of isolated cardiac sarcoidosis is frequently difficult. Cardiac sarcoidosis should be suspected in young patients with heart block, ventricular tachyarrhythmias, and/or heart failure who have no obvious cause. All such patients should have ECG and echocardiography. Patients with an unexplained cardiomyopathy should also have cardiac MRI. When findings from these examinations suggest cardiac sarcoidosis or when there is a high suspicion thereof (eg, in young patients with unexplained AV block), further testing for cardiac sarcoidosis (ambulatory ECG monitoring, FDG-PET scanning) and testing for extracardiac sarcoidosis, (chest x-ray, chest CT, whole body FDG-PET scan) is needed. With extensive investigation, > 80% of patients with apparent isolated cardiac sarcoidosis are found to also have extracardiac sarcoidosis. An international consensus document (2) indicated that the diagnosis of cardiac sarcoidosis requires a cardiac biopsy showing non-caseating granuloma without alternative explanation or an extracardiac tissue biopsy showing non-caseating granuloma without alternative explanation plus ≥ 1 of the following without alternative explanation: Corticosteroid-responsive cardiomyopathy or heart block Unexplained reduced left ventricular ejection fraction < 40% Unexplained spontaneous or induced ventricular tachycardia Mobitz type II second-degree AV block or third-degree AV block Cardiac PET scan showing patchy uptake Cardiac MRI showing late gadolinium enhancement Positive gallium uptake on a nuclear scan Most commonly, the
