Cardiac Sarcoidosis
KEYWORDS: cardiac, sarcoidosis, patients, cardiac sarcoidosis, ventricular, heart, involvement, block, systemic, icd, systemic sarcoidosis, left, therapy, class, biopsy


II second-degree AV block or third-degree AV block Cardiac PET scan showing patchy uptake Cardiac MRI showing late gadolinium enhancement Positive gallium uptake on a nuclear scan Most commonly, the diagnosis is established by extracardiac biopsy in conjunction with suggestive cardiac abnormalities on noninvasive testing. Cardiac biopsy has low sensitivity because the disease process is patchy and pathological tissue may not be sampled. However, sensitivity of cardiac biopsy is improved if it is guided by advanced cardiac imaging techniques or by targeting areas of low voltage. Similar, but not identical, criteria for the diagnosis of cardiac sarcoidosis have been published by the World Association of Sarcoidosis and Other Granulomatous Disorders (WASOG) (3) and the Japanese Circulation Society (JCS) Corticosteroids Sometimes other immunosuppressive medications Sometimes permanent pacemaker and/or implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) Sometimes antiarrhythmic medications (avoiding class I medications) Sometimes transcatheter ablation Heart failure therapy (including transplantation) as required Standard treatments for sarcoidosis itself are given, including corticosteroids and sometimes other immunosuppressants (eg, methotrexate). Tumor necrosis factor alpha inhibitors may be used for refractory cases. These modalities often also ameliorate cardiac abnormalities and should be optimized (1). Cardiac treatment is focused on treatment and prevention of arrhythmias. Recommendations for treatment of bradyarrhythmias or tachyarrhythmias follow those for other arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathies. In cardiac sarcoidosis specifically, a pacemaker is recommended (class of recommendation IIa) for qualifying AV block even if the AV block reverses spontaneously (2). When a permanent pacemaker is indicated (see table Indications for Permanent Pacemakers), an ICD is preferred (class IIa recommendation). The Heart Rhythm Society cardiac sarcoid consensus document recommends an ICD for patients with prior sustained VT, resuscitated cardiac arrest, or left ventricular ejection fraction of ≤ 35% despite optimal medical therapy (including a period of immunosuppression in patients with active inflammation) (each a class I recommendation)(2) (see table Indications for an ICD). The Heart Rhythm Society cardiac sarcoid consensus document also suggests an ICD can be useful (class IIa recommendation) for patients with cardiac sarcoidosis with unexplained syncope or near- syncope thought to be arrhythmic in etiology and for those with inducible sustained VT/VF at a programmed stimulation electrophysiologic study (each a class IIa recommendation) (2). The document further suggests that an ICD may be considered (class IIb recommendation) in patients with cardiac sarcoidosis with a left ventricular ejection fraction in the 35% to 49% range and/or a right ventricular ejection fraction < 40% despite optimal medical therapy
