Cardiac Sarcoidosis
KEYWORDS: cardiac, sarcoidosis, patients, cardiac sarcoidosis, ventricular, heart, involvement, block, systemic, icd, systemic sarcoidosis, left, therapy, class, biopsy


recommendation) in patients with cardiac sarcoidosis with a left ventricular ejection fraction in the 35% to 49% range and/or a right ventricular ejection fraction < 40% despite optimal medical therapy for heart failure and use of immunosuppressants in patients with active inflammation (2). Similar, but not identical, recommendations for ICD therapy have been proposed by the Japanese Circulation Society (3), the American Heart Association/American College of Cardiology/Heart Rhythm Society (4), and the European Society of Cardiology (5). Because ventricular late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) on cardiac MRI (a marker of ventricular scarring) predicts life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, ICD placement is recommended (class IIa recommendations) for patients with significant LGE despite an LVEF > 35% (4, 5). 4/6 Antiarrhythmic medications such as amiodarone and sotalol may be given as necessary to control frequently recurrent ventricular tachycardias and/or other tachyarrhythmias. If medications (and adequate anti-inflammatory therapy) do not control VT, electrophysiologic studies may be done to identify the origin of the arrhythmia (often a reentrant site) that can then be treated using transcatheter ablation. Heart failure therapy typically includes a beta-blocker (watching for the possibility of worsening AV conduction), an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or an angiotensin II receptor blocker, and a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist. Pharmacological treatments for dilated cardiomyopathy, including angiotensin receptor/neprilysin inhibitors and sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors, have been less well studied in patients with cardiac sarcoidosis. The frequent coexistence of left bundle branch block in patients with sarcoidosis-related dilated cardiomyopathy makes cardiac resynchronization therapy attractive. Heart transplantation may be considered. Key Points About 25% of patients with systemic sarcoidosis have cardiac involvement, but only about 5% have cardiac symptoms. Cardiac involvement causes a disproportionate percentage of deaths in patients with sarcoidosis. Diagnosis requires a combination of clinical, electrocardiographic, and imaging findings; cardiac biopsy can be diagnostic but is not usually done. Cardiac manifestations often require a pacemaker/implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) and sometimes antiarrhythmic medications. 5/6 Sarcoidosis itself is treated with corticosteroids and sometimes other immunosuppressants.
