Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


MINI-REVIEW Nipah virus: pathogenesis, genome, diagnosis, and treatment Rishav Madhukalya1 · Urvashi Yadav1 · Hilal Ahmad Parray2 · Nisha Raj2 · Santhik Subhasingh Lupitha3 · Vivek Kumar1 · Anjali Saroj1 · Vidushi Agarwal1 · Dilip Kumar4 · Supratik Das2 · Rajesh Kumar1 Received: 13 November 2024 / Revised: 1 April 2025 / Accepted: 1 April 2025 / Published online: 1 July 2025 © The Author(s) 2025 Abstract The highly infectious Nipah virus (NiV) is classified under the Paramyxoviridae family and is categorized under the genus Henipavirus. NiV spreads to humans through zoonotic transmission from reservoir host bats and other intermediate hosts. It is highly contagious and has a high case fatality rate (CFR) of ~ 40–80%. Only sporadic outbreaks have been reported so priority pathogen list. Currently, no clinically approved antivirals, immunotherapy, or vaccines are available to tackle NiV infection, thereby necessitating further research into its life cycle, transmission, and pathogenesis. This detailed review outlines the origin and spread of the Nipah virus, its modes of transmission, risk factors, its genome, key proteins, patho- ranging from antibodies to vaccines. Key points •Pandemic preparedness for emerging and re-emerging viruses. •Novel approaches for diagnostics and therapeutics for Nipah viruse. •Global threat from biosafety level 4 pathogens. •Animal models for Nipah virus research. Keywords Nipah virus · Henipavirus · Viral outbreaks · Viral encephalitis · Anti-viral drugs · Clinical trials · Vaccines · WHO Introduction virus, Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF) virus, Zika virus, swine flu virus, Lassa fever virus, Marburg The emergence of novel pathogenic viral strains and their virus, coronaviruses, Nipah virus (NiV), and Rift Valley decades, possibly due to rapid urbanization and changing have been classified as pathogens of global concern (Riz- climatic conditions. Newly emerging viruses such as Ebola zardini et al. 2018). Their ability to spread quickly may lead to an international public health crisis similar to COVID- 19 * . These viral outbreaks are responsible for Supratik Das high mortality, morbidity, and economic burden worldwide. * Old viruses such as influenza have the potential to resur- Rajesh Kumar face and pose new epidemic and pandemic threats (Tauben- berger and Morens 2010). Viruses employ various strategies to infect humans, either by direct or by indirect means or through different reservoir host animals. Despite implement- ing stringent precautionary measures, the COVID- 19 pan- Biotech Science Cluster, Faridabad Haryana- 121001, India demic appeared to be virtually unstoppable, leading to its
