Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


different reservoir host animals. Despite implement- ing stringent precautionary measures, the COVID- 19 pan- Biotech Science Cluster, Faridabad Haryana- 121001, India demic appeared to be virtually unstoppable, leading to its 3 Institutes of Advanced Virology, Bio 360 Life Science Park, spread throughout the globe. Similar to SARS-CoV- 2, many Trivandrum Kerala- 695317, India viral pathogens with increased propensity for causing an epidemic, such as NiV, Ebola, and Middle East respiratory Haryana, India Vol.:(0123456789) coronavirus (MERS-CoV), originated from bats, and later the CFR and geographical outbreaks of NiV since 1998 is spread by cross-species transmission through intermediate depicted in Figs. 1, 2, and 3. hosts (Mohd et al. 2016; Zhou et al. 2020; Letko et al. 2020). To date, no dedicated antivirals or vaccines have been NiV is a zoonotic single-stranded RNA-genome contain- successfully developed for treating or preventing NiV, ing bat-borne pathogen of the family Paramyxoviridae. The and only symptomatic management treatments are given other human pathogenic viruses of this family are Hendra to patients. This emerging zoonotically transmitted virus and mumps virus . It has the poten- approach to reduce its disease burden. As NiV is considered tial to trigger severe acute respiratory infection as well as a BSL- 4 pathogen, scientists have speculated that it has the encephalitis . NiV is listed as a class C capacity to trigger a future pandemic. Hence, there is an pathogen in the classification of pathogens. According to the urgent need to conduct rigorous research, in order to develop Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) as well vaccines and therapies against NiV. (NIAID), it poses a threat of bioterrorism (Mohapatra et al. tion, epidemiology, diversity, pathology, prophylaxis, clini- 2024). The fruit bat (Pteropus medius) is a reservoir host cal aspects, and the risk factors associated with NiV. This of NiV and is responsible for animal-to-human transmis- review encompasses the collective data published up to July sion . The first known case of NiV was 1, 2024, in the form of research articles, literature reviews, documented in 1998 in the Malaysian town of Sungai Nipah, and case reports. This review also focuses on different cir- followed by cases in Bangladesh, India, Singapore, and the culating NiV strains and provides a comparative analysis Philippines. Infections were reported to have occurred in of these strains based on their origin, lethality, and mode humans from pigs, the virus’s intermediate host. Since 1999, of transmission from
