Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


Philippines. Infections were reported to have occurred in of these strains based on their origin, lethality, and mode humans from pigs, the virus’s intermediate host. Since 1999, of transmission from reservoir to host species. Addition- Nevertheless, in India and Bangladesh, new cases have been various model organisms used to study the biology of NiV. reported quite regularly (Chadha et al. 2006; Blum et al. Furthermore, this review discusses presently available and 2009). Between 2001 and 2015, several NiV encephalitis ongoing medical countermeasures against NiV in accord- cases in Bangladesh have been documented. In 2018, a NiV ance with the epidemiological data provided by the Coalition epidemic was reported from Kerala, India (Kozhikode dis- for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), WHO, and contracted the virus from fruit bats . Genetic diversity associated with NiV strains port the transmission. Because of the high human mortality rate of NiV, zoonotic origin, the likelihood of inter-human contagion, and unavailability of a vaccine, NiV has been NiV was first isolated in 1999 and currently declared a global epidemic. The World Health Organization two major genetic lineages of human disease-causing NiVs (WHO) has designated it as a worldwide epidemic-causing have been identified by genome sequencing, i.e., NiV pathogenic agent, and NiV infection is deemed to be one Bangladesh (NiV-B) and NiV Malaysia (NiV-M) (Harcourt of the most severe health concerns . et al. 2005) (Table 1). Both lineages have similar lengths While only ~ 10% of Nipah-infected individuals contribute of nucleotides except for an extra six nucleotides located at to viral transmission, the spread of the disease is consid- the 5′ non-translated region of the F protein of NiV-B (Chan ered to be highly heterogeneous and may infect several peo- et al. 2001; AbuBakar et al. 2004). Although both strains ple . Recently, in 2019, NiV infection have high sequence identity (91.8%), NiV-B is proposed to was reported from the Ernakulum district of Kerala, India have greater mortality rate . Moreover, the . Another incidence of NiV encephalitis NiV strains isolated from India showed 99% and 97% resem- was reported on September 5, 2021, with the demise of a blance to the Bangladeshi lineage . these outbreaks have reported high mortality rates, including been reported between NiV-B and NiV-M epidemics. In con- a ~ 91% mortality rate reported for the recent Kerala out- trast to NiV-M, NiV-B has a narrower average incubation break . According to a
