Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


and NiV-M epidemics. In con- a ~ 91% mortality rate reported for the recent Kerala out- trast to NiV-M, NiV-B has a narrower average incubation break . According to a report from period . Although genetically compa- recorded emergence of NiV occurred in the Malappuram larger number of deaths in comparison to the NiV-M strain, died from NiV infection, and another 60 individuals were vices and the high frequency of new viral infections in these put in the high-risk category. A detailed information about countries (Sharma et al. 2019; Ochani et al. 2019; Thakur Fig. 1 Epidemiological trends of Nipah virus (NiV) outbreaks illus- the years. C Year-wise deaths over confirmed cases data for India, trating confirmed cases (orange), deaths (blue), and case fatality rates emphasizing notable outbreaks in Kerala (2001, 2018, and 2023), (CFR) (grey). A Country-wise distribution of NiV cases and deaths, where CFR has remained high despite improved surveillance and with the CFR demonstrating variability in virus infectivity across healthcare responses. The graphs combinedly demonstrate the impact nations. B Year-wise trends in Bangladesh, highlighting recurrent of NiV, showing global as well as regional differences in epidemio- outbreaks since 2001, with variations in case numbers and CFR over logical dynamics and disease outcomes and Bailey 2019). The NiV-B infections are generally associ- (AGMs) indicate that the two strains are distinct in sev- ated with both respiratory illness and encephalitis. However, eral ways . Disease pathogenesis and NiV-M infections are primarily associated with encephalitis, cytopathic effects were lower in NiV-B-infected hamsters with limited evidence of respiratory disease (Chadha et al. relative to NiV-M-infected hamsters (DeBuysscher et al. 2006; Hossain et al. 2008). NiV-B strain is more frequently 2013). Similarly, it has been shown that disease progres- linked to the development of atypical pneumonia with res- sion and development of immune responses were slower in piratory distress. Inter-human transmission cases with the NiV-B infections as compared to NiV-M. These findings absence of involvement of intermediary hosts were more were further confirmed, by the viral replication titer studies frequently reported in the NiV-B strain, which has a high that showed that viral replication was slower during NiV-M mortality rate of ~ 75% compared to the ~ 40% mortality infection. However, NiV-B and NiV-M strains caused simi- rate of the NiV-M strain (Fig. 1) . At the lar lesions in the hamster’s respiratory tract, indicating that same time, the genetic heterogeneity within
