Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


and NiV-M strains caused simi- rate of the NiV-M strain (Fig. 1) . At the lar lesions in the hamster’s respiratory tract, indicating that same time, the genetic heterogeneity within NiV-B strains is there are no inherent differences between the two strains considerably higher compared to the NiV-M strain. causing human epidemics . NiV-B and Although NiV-B has shown associations with multiple NiV-M infections in ferrets resulted in similar pathologi- outbreaks, all in vitro and in vivo therapeutic studies have cal phenotypes and diseases. Ferrets with NiV-B or NiV-M been focused on the NiV-M strain instead of the ubiqui- infection have a much higher viral load in their blood, and tous NiV-B strain . The two strains are ferrets with NiV-B infection have a higher shedding rate in biologically indistinguishable, various investigations per- their oral secretions, leading to higher transmission rates of formed using both small animal models like hamsters, and NiV-B, between humans, during outbreaks (Clayton et al. ferrets and large animal models like African green monkeys 2012). In AGMs, NiV-M infection caused 50% mortality, Fig. 2 Global distribution of Nipah virus (NiV) outbreaks, high- reported number of cases and fatalities. The color intensity represents lighting cumulative deaths over confirmed cases. The map illustrates the severity of outbreaks, with the highest number of cases recorded affected countries, including Malaysia, Bangladesh, India, Singapore, to date. Regions with repeated outbreaks in India (Kerala and West and the Philippines, with outbreak hotspots marked according to the Bengal) have been highlighted in blue whereas NiV-B infection resulted in the death of all the although their exact roles as amplifying or bridging species experimental animals . are not yet completely known (Chua 2003; Glennon et al. 2018) (Fig. 4). Host range Mode of transmission and risk factors Fruit bats, predominantly belonging to the genus Pteropus act as reservoir hosts for NiV. In Malaysia, NiV has been Humans mainly contract NiV via foods contaminated by detected in different bat species like Pteropus vampyru, infected bats, proximity to infected animals, and body fluids Pteropus hypomelanus, and Pteropus lylei (Yob et al. 2001; from infected individuals (R et al. 2008; Luby et al. 2009). Wacharapluesadee et al. 2005). In India, NiV was first iden- Virus spread from bats to pigs is attributed to the inges- tified in Megaderma spasma and later detected in fruit bats tion of leftovers or fruits contaminated by NiV-infected bats such as Pteropus
