Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


bats to pigs is attributed to the inges- tified in Megaderma spasma and later detected in fruit bats tion of leftovers or fruits contaminated by NiV-infected bats such as Pteropus giganteus . Investiga- . Bat infections can be transmitted to humans in tions into the Malaysian outbreak revealed that pigs can primarily two ways (Fig. 4): through an intermediary animal act as both intermediate and amplifying hosts for this virus host (outbreak in Malaysia), or straight from bats to humans (Mohd Nor et al. 2000; de Wit and Munster 2015). Serologi- (outbreaks in Bangladesh and India) . In the cal studies confirmed NiV infection in dogs, at the time of case of the Malaysian outbreak, the major risk of human- Malaysia’s first outbreak, and viral transmission was asso- to-human NiV transmission was linked to direct exposure ciated with the ingestion of virus-infected pork or direct to the infectious secretions or excretions of NiV-infected physical contact with NiV-infected pigs . pigs which happened mainly during the handling of pigs A 2001 study reported the spread of NiV from sick cows (Luby and Gurley 2012). Alarmingly, the transport of pig in the Meherpur district of Bangladesh . meat from NiV-infected areas to other geographical loca- Domestic animals, namely cows and goats, are an impor- tions worldwide may have also facilitated the transmission of tant factor in the spillover of bat-borne viruses like NiV, the disease to uninfected regions . This Fig. 3 Timeline of Nipah virus (NiV) outbreaks from 1998 to 2024. ladesh and India, were linked to direct bat-to-human or human-to- The figure illustrates key outbreaks, highlighting their geographic human transmission. Notable events include the recurrent outbreaks locations, case fatality rates, and major transmission routes. The first in Bangladesh since 2001, the Kerala outbreaks in India (2018, 2019, recorded outbreak in Malaysia (1998–1999) involved pig-to-human and 2023), and recent cases in 2024 transmission, whereas subsequent outbreaks, particularly in Bang- was evident in Singapore, where the import of infected pork transmission via respiratory secretions, primarily owing from Malaysia led to the spread of NiV infection among to inefficient utilization of personal protective equipment abattoir workers . In Bangladesh, ingest- . Individuals having direct physical ing infected date palm sap was a common risk factor associ- contact with NiV-infected patients but had not come into ated with human NiV infections . direct contact with their body fluids had a reduced probabil- Working in
