Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


transmission Zoonotic (pig-to-human; horse-to- Direct bat-to-human and human- Direct bat-to-human and human- human) with limited human-to- to-human (via saliva, respiratory to-human (via saliva, respiratory human droplets) droplets) involvement rare distress, encephalitis encephalitis Unique epidemiological features Pigs as amplifying hosts, first out- Frequent spillovers, seasonal Recurring outbreaks in Kerala, high break outside India/Bangladesh, outbreaks (winter-spring), human-to-human transmission, led to culling of > 1 million pigs human-to-human super-spreader limited genetic data available events Genetic differences More closely related to Hendra More virulent, higher human-to- Closely related to NiVB but with virus (HeV) human spread distinct mutations ures, strict biosecurity protocols ness, surveillance state-wide lockdowns during outbreaks intraperitoneal inoculation with NiV; however, the former depression, and paralysis (Bossart et al. 2009; Pallister et al. neal route was considered more suitable for administering Both AGMs and squirrel monkeys are extremely vulner- NiV inoculum . Pigs infected through able to NiV infection and exhibit common clinical symp- oral routes showed symptoms of natural NiV infection but toms that are also observed in human NiV cases (Marian- increased severity was observed after subcutaneous inocula- neau et al. 2010; Geisbert et al. 2010, 2020). Experimental tion of NiV (Middleton et al. 2002; Weingartl et al. 2005). infection of AGMs revealed that the NiV-B strain exhibited Subcutaneous, intranasal, or oral routes of infection in cats increased pathogenicity as compared to NiV-M (Mire et al. showed clinical symptoms within 4–8 days (Mungall et al. 2016; Prasad et al. 2020) Due to their high genetic similar- 2006). Every method of inoculation leads to infection or ity with humans, AGM models have been extensively used death, with the virus being detected across several organs for testing antiviral drugs against NiV (Rockx et al. 2010; such as the brain, kidney, spleen, and lungs (Hooper et al. Bossart et al. 2011, 2012). Common laboratory mice mod- 2001). Cats developed good IgG and IgA responses in vac- els like Balb/c and C57BL/6 did not develop henipaviral cine studies when challenged with a 50,000 T CID dose of infection post-exposure to the virus via intra-nasal or intra- NiV (Zhu et al. 2006; McEachern et al. 2008). In pregnant peritoneal route; however, intracranial administration of the cats, NiV was found in the fetal tissue, placenta, and uterine virus caused fatal infection (Westbury et al. 1995; Dhondt fluid, and they were involved in the vertical transmission et al. 2013). Despite having a lower susceptibility to NiV of
