Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


negative-sense, et al. 2018) The NiV F protein is heavily glycosylated and single-stranded, non-segmented, RNA genome of ~ 18.2 mediates viral entry and integration into the host membrane kb . RNA viruses have a higher potential . Studies have confirmed that altering of infecting new host species, due to their incredibly short the glycosylation pattern in F protein diminishes its fusion Fig. 5 Representation of the structure and proteins of the Nipah virus. Comprehensive illustration of the virus's molecular structure provides an unobstructed view of its structural elements. All the important structural elements and proteins of the Nipah virus are shown efficacy. At the same time, different investigations have through the nasal cavity into the CNS via olfactory neu- reported that the N-glycans on NiV G glycoprotein act as rons (Weingartl et al. 2005; de Wit and Munster 2015). a decoy and protect the viral envelope from antibody-medi- Nucleoprotein aggregation in degenerating axons is an ated neutralization (Biering et al. 2012; Aguilar et al. 2006). effective mechanism for NiV dissemination throughout The NiV-F glycoprotein in its pre-fusion form is a hexamer the CNS, following its entrance into most animal models of trimers for which the crystal structure has already been . determined , while NiV-G glycoprotein is a homo-tetramer whose crystal structure has also been solved Host–pathogen interactions . The F and G proteins, along with three accessory proteins (C, W, and V), encapsulate the NiV viral genome (Fig. 5) (Rodriguez et al. 2002, 2004; Shaw et al. The F and G proteins present in the viral envelope of 2004). The NiV-F and NiV-G proteins are major targets of NiV control virus attachment and its entry into host cells neutralizing antibodies as they help in not only viral binding (Figs. 6). Ephrin-B2 (EFNB2) and ephrin-B3 (EFNB3), and fusion but also viral budding . which are host cell receptors, found on epithelial cells and neurons, respectively, serve as a binding partner for the G protein. Seven contiguous residues on top of the globular Pathogenesis of NiV head of G protein mediate its interaction with the EFNB2 receptor . The interlinkage of the Virus entry receptor exposes the G protein’s stalk domain and induces F protein conformational changes, from pre-fusion form to The oronasopharyngeal route serves as the primary pas- pre-hairpin intermediate, and finally to post-fusion form sage through which NiV enters the host, and studies that is ready for membrane fusion
