Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


The oronasopharyngeal route serves as the primary pas- pre-hairpin intermediate, and finally to post-fusion form sage through which NiV enters the host, and studies that is ready for membrane fusion . The involving infected pigs and hamsters have confirmed res- presence of a KKR motif located in the cytoplasmic tail piratory epithelium to be the first site of NiV infection of the F protein stimulates viral membrane fusion with the (Weingartl et al. 2009; De Wit et al. 2011). Following host cells in a pH-independent manner, thereby allowing initial replication in the respiratory tract, NiV spreads sys- virion penetration (Lamp et al. 2013; Aguilar et al. 2007; temically, infecting airway endothelial cells during viremia Negrete et al. 2005; Xu et al. 2012) (Fig. 6). The F protein and subsequently targeting epithelial cells in the bladder is initially present as a precursor, F , which undergoes pro- and kidneys . With disease progres- teolytic processing. This processing is likely mediated by sion, NiV enters the bloodstream and infects the brain, cathepsin L in Vero cells, and cathepsin B in MDCK cells, digestive, and excretory systems . resulting in the formation of disulfide-linked F and F 1 2 Entry of NiV inside the CNS can happen due to multiple subunits that constitute a mature fusogenic F heterodimer reasons such as replication of NiV in the endothelial cells (Pager et al. 2006; Diederich et al. 2012). The F subunit resulting in the compromised integrity of the blood–brain mainly facilitates the fusion of the viral membrane and the barrier (BBB); the transmigration of NiV-bound unin- host cellular membrane. fected leukocytes into the brain; and the transport of NiV Fig. 6 Representation of the Nipah virus life cycle, including all important phases from entry to exit in host cells. Graphical illustrations of how the virus enters the cell, replicates, and leaves the cell are shown Cellular mechanisms, viral replication and budding The molecular features of the virus are preserved by the M protein, as it recruits a variety of cell machinery, to initi- The binding of the G protein with the ephrin-B2/B3 recep- ate viral morphogenesis and virion budding (Watkinson and tor, followed by viral entry, triggers the release and dupli- Lee 2016; Eaton et al. 2006). The M protein also partici- cation of the viral mRNA of NiV (Fig. 6) (Bonaparte et al. pates in the last phase of the assembly of the virion,
