Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


al. 2006). The M protein also partici- cation of the viral mRNA of NiV (Fig. 6) (Bonaparte et al. pates in the last phase of the assembly of the virion, which 2005). Subsequently, the viral mRNA undergoes transla- includes virion encapsulation, followed by the release of new tion into the primary structural proteins, after the L and virus particles from the host cell . Further- P proteins mediate its transcription . more, the M protein acts as a shuttle between the nucleus The molecular weight of NiV L protein is ~ 250 kDa and and cytoplasm, as it contains nuclear import/export signal is responsible for replication, transcription, and capping sequences, and performs nuclear transit, even though NiV of the viral genome, in close coordination with the viral replicates in the cytoplasm . Inhibition of phosphoprotein P. The L protein’s C-terminal region the nucleolar treacle protein by virus-mediated modulation contains an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) of the host cell machinery enhances Henipavirus production domain; a poly-ribonucleotidyltransferase (PRNTase) as this targets the DNA-damage response (DDR) pathway domain essential for mRNA capping; a methyltransferase (de Wit et al. 2014; Rawlinson et al. 2018). Aggregation (MTase) domain; and an uncharacterized domain (Died- of M protein leads to the formation of virus-like particles erich and Maisner 2007; Cox and Plemper 2017). The N (VLPs) at the plasma membrane and in association with the protein also participates in replication, gene transcription, F protein it induces G protein recruitment into VLPs (John- and wrapping of the viral genome . ston et al. 2017; Sun et al. 2018). Host immune response signaling pathways induced by viral RNA or TLR3. The C protein blocks IFN-α induction and indirectly suppresses In vitro studies, involving endothelial cell lines, infected type I IFN induction, by reducing the synthesis of viral RNA with NiV, have been found to trigger the release of type . I interferon (IFN-I), and various cytokines and inflamma- Tissue tropism tory chemokines . Upon NiV attachment and subsequent fusion with host cells, RNA helicases present in the cytoplasm recognize viral RNA, inducing a strong IFN-I In humans, NiV causes a severe and fast-developing disease, response that causes the activation of multiple IFN-induced mostly affecting the respiratory and central nervous systems genes, like OAS1, ISG56, and IP- 10, thereby influencing (CNS) . More than 90% of infections innate antiviral defense (Habjan et al. 2008; Leon et al. impact the CNS
