Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


systems genes, like OAS1, ISG56, and IP- 10, thereby influencing (CNS) . More than 90% of infections innate antiviral defense (Habjan et al. 2008; Leon et al. impact the CNS and 62% of infections affect the respiratory 2018). A constitutive INF level is maintained by pteropid system. Biopsy samples taken from NiV-infected individu- bats even in the absence of infection, which helps them to als’ brains and other body organs revealed the presence of inhibit NiV replication, and act as a reservoir without getting syncytial multinucleated large endothelial cells that distin- infected . In in vivo studies, involving NiV- guish NiV-associated encephalitis, from encephalitis caused infected Syrian Golden hamster, the upregulation of IFN-I by other viruses (Wong et al. 2002; Weingartl et al. 2005). signaling, cytokines, and chemokines initially occurred in Endothelial cells, macrophages, neurons, glial cells, smooth the lung, followed by the brain, correlating with disease pro- muscle cells, alveolar pneumocystis cells, and epithelial gression . Apart from IFN-I response, cells in the upper respiratory tract are among the many cell pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as IL- 1 and TNF-α, were types that NiV may infect . The also induced, following NiV infection . ephrin-B2/B3 receptors play an important role in determin- Serum samples, from NiV-infected survivors, of the 2018 ing the virus’s ability to infect cells. A study conducted on Indian outbreak, displayed elevated B-lymphocyte counts, NiV-infected Syrian hamsters reported that NiV antigens correlating with the production of anti-NiV IgG and IgM were absent in veins, but present in medium- and small-sized antibodies . However, the adap- arteries. These findings align with the fact that the ephrin-B2 tive immune response against NiV is not completely clear in receptor is expressed in the arterial endothelium, but absent humans due to insufficient clinical samples from fatal cases. in venous endothelium . Although NiV Studies, involving animal models, were conducted to have receptors are abundantly accessible, the virus must spread a better understanding of NiV-induced humoral responses. throughout the body, via bloodstream to reach and infect Swine subjects, experimentally infected with NiV, developed various cell types . neutralizing antibodies that became detectable within a week Once NiV enters the bloodstream, it disseminates to the and reached high titers by 2 weeks post-infection (Berhane spleen, brain, and kidneys, either in free-form or in a host et al. 2008). On the other hand, African green monkeys leukocyte-bound form (Rockx et al. 2011; Escaffre et
