Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


(Berhane spleen, brain, and kidneys, either in free-form or in a host et al. 2008). On the other hand, African green monkeys leukocyte-bound form (Rockx et al. 2011; Escaffre et al. exhibited B cell exhaustion by 12 days post-NiV infection, 2013). The tropism of NiV, into the capillaries of the brain which indicated rapid progression of infection (Lara et al. and lungs, is mediated by infection of CD6-expressing T 2019). cells, which acts as a ligand for the CD166 molecule (acti- vated leukocyte cell adhesion molecule (ALCAM)), dis- Immune evasion strategies played by microvascular endothelial cells present in the blood–brain and blood-air barrier (Erbar et al. 2008; Sta- Detection of viral RNA, by receptors like RIG-I and MDA- chowiak and Weingartl 2012). Disruption of the BBB is fol- 5, induces the production of IFN-β which triggers the JAK/ lowed by infection of the CNS by the virus. This results in STAT pathway and downstream signaling pathways that the production of TNF-α and IL- 1, which in turn triggers the regulate IFN-stimulated gene expression (García-Sastre onset of neurological symptoms. In lungs, type 2 pneumo- and Biron 2006). It has been seen in various studies that cytes and bronchial epithelium serve as the principal targets the NiV P, V, W, and C proteins help to bypass the defenses of these antigens . Infection of the air- imposed by the host immune system. To inhibit JAK/STAT way epithelium activates inflammatory mediators (Escaffre signaling, the W, V, and P proteins of NiV bind to STAT1 et al. 2016), and in the latter stages of the illness, the virus protein, through their N-terminal domain, and stop it from spreads to the lung endothelial cells . getting phosphorylated . MDA- 5 and Inflammation of the respiratory tract epithelium causes RIG-I, as well as STAT2, which is another contributor to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)–like condition, antiviral responses, are inhibited by the phosphatase PP1 which subsequently triggers the production of inflammatory mechanism of NiV V protein. Both NiV V and W proteins cytokines . In addition to leuko- are responsible for blocking IKKε signaling, which affects cytes, other immune cells such as T lymphocytes, NK cells, and monocytes can also be infected by NiV (Stachowiak and 2019; Pandey et al. 2024). Serological assays, like enzyme- Weingartl 2012). linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA), detect NiV-specific IgM and IgG antibodies. Apart from these, polymerase chain Clinical features linked with NiV
