Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


Pandey et al. 2024). Serological assays, like enzyme- Weingartl 2012). linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA), detect NiV-specific IgM and IgG antibodies. Apart from these, polymerase chain Clinical features linked with NiV reaction (PCR) and recombinase polymerase assay have also been used to detect NiV (Fig. 7). The incubation time for NiV has been reported to be less ELISA test than 15 days . However, in certain situations, the incubation period may go up to 4 months or more . It has been noted that latent infec- ELISA employs a monoclonal antibody (mAb)–based diag- tion might resurface, after several months/years, post-acute nostic approach for NiV detection (Abdullah and Tan 2014; infection . Asymptomatic infections are Satterfield et al. 2016a) (Fig. 7). Since the N protein of NiV very unlikely in cases with NiV infections (Parashar et al. is more abundantly expressed during the acute stage of NiV 2000). Patients generally begin to show symptoms of infec- infection, researchers cloned, expressed, and purified the tion after 3 to 14 days of exposure to NiV (Hossain et al. recombinant version of the N protein, and used it in an IgM 2008; Arunkumar et al. 2019). The body temperature rises capture ELISA to analyze human sera. IgM antibodies are quickly, causing lethargy and a headache and certain indi- among the first to appear during infection, usually detect- viduals may exhibit coughing and respiratory discomfort at able within the first 5 days of symptoms, and their levels the same time . A sore throat, nausea, gradually decline over 2–3 months and eventually disap- and muscular pain are all possible symptoms associated pear . At the same time, an indirect IgG with NiV infection . Within 24–48 h of ELISA was developed that was capable of testing pig as infection, encephalitis may develop, resulting in convul- well as human sera . Anti-NiV IgM peaks sions and coma in the most severe instances (Benmimoun were observed in serum samples post- 9 days of infection et al. 1982). The most typical symptoms are hypotonia, and were reported to last for up to 90 days (Fischer et al. gaze palsy, segmental myoclonus, disturbed mental state, 2018). On the other hand, anti-NiV IgG peaks are seen 2 to and areflexia, as well as weakness in the limbs (Chua 4 weeks after the onset of symptoms and can last for several are also associated with vascular and cell injuries in the recent
