Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


well as weakness in the limbs (Chua 4 weeks after the onset of symptoms and can last for several are also associated with vascular and cell injuries in the recent or acute infections, while IgG tests are mostly used brain, lungs, and kidneys . Patients go in serosurveillance studies, where a positive IgG ELISA test from stable to comatose in a matter of days and about 20% confirms the convalescence stage of infection in recovered of survivors develop residual neurological abnormalities, patients (Mazzola and Kelly-Cirino 2019). which include tiredness, localized neurological problems, Polymerase chain reaction and depression . Septicemia, renal failure, and gastrointestinal bleeding are the other possible side effects of this infection . The high sensitivity and specificity of PCR makes it a reli- In addition to these symptoms, histopathological investi- able method to detect viral infection (Fig. 7). RNA of NiV gations revealed meningitis, interstitial pneumonia, and in respiratory secretions, serum, urine, and cerebrospinal pulmonary edema in several studies (Parashar et al. 2000; fluid can be detected by real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). Apart Field et al. 2001; Mills et al. 2009). from that, RT-PCR, duplex, and nested RT-PCR (nRT-PCR) can also be used to detect NiV, with amplicon nucleotide Laboratory Diagnosis sequencing providing further confirmation (Guillaume et al. 2004b; Wacharapluesadee and Hemachudha 2007). The An early diagnosis is extremely critical for NiV infection, monitoring of the emerging Henipaviruses, including novel because NiV infection is characterized by serious case fatali- NiV strains, was made possible through TaqMan-based and cerebrospinal fluid from infected people and animals identification of unique sequences present in the NiV N gene are used as samples. Virological diagnosis involves detect- (Thakur and Bailey 2019). ing viral RNA, through nucleic acid amplification tests The absence of adequate infrastructure, required to set up (NAATs), for instance, reverse transcriptase-polymerase a PCR testing facility, can limit its usage in some endemic chain reaction (RT-PCR), which offer high sensitivity and regions. Furthermore, these tests might lose their sensitiv- specificity, particularly during early infection stages. Immu- ity due to genetic mutations, which can lead to the appear- nohistochemistry and virus isolation techniques are also ance of novel NiV variants, exhibiting variations in the con- employed for confirmatory diagnosis, although virus iso- served sequences that are used to design probes. Probes are lation is more time-consuming (Mazzola and Kelly-Cirino often constructed for highly conserved (mutation-resistant) Fig. 7 Illustration of the diagnosis of Nipah virus
