Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


that are used to design probes. Probes are lation is more time-consuming (Mazzola and Kelly-Cirino often constructed for highly conserved (mutation-resistant) Fig. 7 Illustration of the diagnosis of Nipah virus using a variety of techniques. A variety of virus detection methods and their visual description are shown, e.g., SHERLOCK Assay, Lateral flow assay, ELISA, PCR, and Live Virus Neutralization Assay pathogen of interest, to assure coverage for genetic varia- tics Pvt. Ltd., is currently the only approved rapid diagnostic tions. The CDC devised a conventional PCR protocol tar- kit available. The effectiveness of this PCR kit called Tru- geting the NiV N protein (Chua et al. 2000; Lo et al. 2012). enat™ Nipah PoC system was validated by NIV and was RT-PCR assays have targeted the conserved N, M, or P found to be ~ 97% sensitive and ~ 100% specific. This PCR regions of the NiV RNA genome as well. A SYBR Green- platform was used during the 2019 NiV outbreak in Kerala based assay encoding primers specific for different regions and had a detection level similar to the TaqMan rtPCR assay of N has been additionally reported , (Yadav et al. 2021; Moore et al. 2024). although it has a lesser sensitivity (100 pfu). In 2018, a one- Additionally, next-generation sequencing and deep step qRT-PCR was developed, which targets the sequences sequencing is an alternate way for effectively identifying between the F and G genes, and gives an accurate estima- viral subtypes and newer strains; however, from a diagnos- tion of replicative NiV RNA . This PCR tic perspective, this method is not frequently employed for procedure might be more precise than standard qRT-PCR, screening of large number of viral samples (Matranga et al. as it eliminates the mRNA amplification step. A portable, 2016). It enables a direct sequence analysis of the viral battery-operated PCR machine jointly developed by the genome, permitting virus as well as lineage determination without offering information about the virus composition. cells of the spleen, laryngeal epithelial cells, and endothelial It enables one to determine the phylogenetic evolution of cells present in the heart valves were also found to be NiV viral specimens over time and topography, when applied positive. Apart from that, 12 A5 also showed NiV detection retrospectively (Matranga et al. 2014; Carroll et al. 2015). capabilities; however, the binding efficiency of 13 A5 and 18 C4 were reduced. In fatal cases,
