Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


A5 also showed NiV detection retrospectively (Matranga et al. 2014; Carroll et al. 2015). capabilities; however, the binding efficiency of 13 A5 and 18 C4 were reduced. In fatal cases, IHC is used to confirm Recombinase polymerase amplification (RPA) assay NiV diagnosis via histopathology . Treatment and prophylaxis The incorporation of the CRISPR/Cas technique, in an iso- thermal amplification assay like RPA, has led to the devel- opment of an inexpensive and rapid point-of-care viral NiV is on the priority pathogen list of WHO, as it possesses diagnostic test called Specific High Sensitivity Enzymatic high pandemic potential and must be taken more seriously. Reporter UnLOCKing or SHERLOCK. This has been effec- Currently, there are no effective drugs or vaccines targeting tively employed to diagnose infections caused by different NiV, so patient treatment procedures are confined to sup- viruses like Zika, Dengue, Ebola, and SARS-CoV- 2 (Goot- portive treatment options and preventative measures only enberg et al. 2017; Barnes et al. 2020; Crone et al. 2020; (Sharma et al. 2019; Chakraborty et al. 2019). Maintaining Freije and Sabeti 2021). Recently, in 2024, researchers in respiratory function, minimizing the likelihood of venous China developed a novel diagnostic method that employed thrombosis, and retaining fluid and electrolyte homeostasis the DNase activity of Cas12a protein against the highly con- are the most important clinical strategies to combat NiV served N gene of NiV (Fig. 7). Activation of Cas12a, upon infection after detection (Aditi and Shariff 2019; Ambat target sequence recognition, leads to non-specific cleavage of et al. 2019). Furthermore, broad-spectrum antibiotics are single-stranded DNA reporters, which is detectable through also administered to NiV-infected people (Ambat et al. a microplate reader or on a lateral flow strip . 2024). Similar to this technique, a one-pot RPA-CRISPR Antiviral drugs in progress assay has also been developed that uses the Cas13a protein and a quenched RNA probe to diagnose NiV (Fig. 7). Unlike the conventional SHERLOCK technique, this one-pot assay Multiple studies have been conducted on developing anti- reduces the contamination risk and minimizes false-positive virals against NiV (Fig. 8) (Table 2). According to the results, as the entire assay can be completed in a single tube Infectious Diseases Society of America, the antiviral drug without the need for reaction transfer . Ribavirin could be employed to treat NiV encephalitis, even These novel diagnostic methods offer safer and cost-effective though ribavirin’s efficacy in combating NiV is unknown.
