Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


need for reaction transfer . Ribavirin could be employed to treat NiV encephalitis, even These novel diagnostic methods offer safer and cost-effective though ribavirin’s efficacy in combating NiV is unknown. It alternatives, as they can be performed in BSL- 2 facilities causes teratogenicity in animals, and there are several side without requiring expensive thermal cyclers used in conven- effects associated with prolonged treatment. Moreover, the tional PCR assays. therapeutic efficacy of ribavirin, in managing the Malay- sian outbreak, as well as the efficiency of acyclovir, used Immunohistochemistry in Singapore, remains unclear . Due to a lack of effective vaccines and therapeutics against NiV, the Immunohistochemistry (IHC) is another way to detect NiV National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in India has infection which employs formalin-fixed tissue samples recommended the use of Ribavirin (a guanosine analog) in . Since virus replication occurs in vas- confirmed NiV cases . This broad antivi- cular endothelium, tissues can be used from various organs ral drug acts on the RNA replication pathway, and was effec- such as the brain, lung, spleen, kidney, and lymph nodes. tive against NiV and HeV in in vitro assays. However, when Initially, IHC was performed using convalescent human Ribavirin was tested in in vivo animal models, it was found serum , but currently, rabbit serum to be ineffective . Ribavirin against NiV is used . For NiV was found to be effective against acute NiV encephalitis and, detection, an antibody-based IHC diagnostic method has as a result, the fatality rate of the NiV-infected patients was been developed by the National Institute of Animal Health reduced by 36% . The antimalarial drug in Japan . The IHC-based detection chloroquine demonstrated its efficacy in cell culture experi- method involved 4 mice-based mAbs (12 A5, 13 A5, 18 ments; however, it did not succeed in averting fatalities of C4 11 F6) that were used to test NiV-infected pig tissue NiV-infected hamsters when administered independently or fixed with formalin. The study found that 11 F6 was able in conjunction with ribavirin (Aditi and Shariff 2019; Ochani to detect NiV antigens across different tissues such as the et al. 2019). renal and respiratory epithelium, smooth muscle cells, and Remdesivir is another antiviral drug, with wide spec- at the same time, certain novel tissue sites such as Schwann trum potency, that has significantly reduced fatality in Fig. 8 Different treatment approaches for Nipah virus infection. Representation
