Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


spec- at the same time, certain novel tissue sites such as Schwann trum potency, that has significantly reduced fatality in Fig. 8 Different treatment approaches for Nipah virus infection. Representation of the complexity of various possible methods to prevent the virus infection including immunotherapies, nano-therapies, and antiviral drugs Ebola-infected non-human primates and at the same time analog called 4′-azidocytidine or R1479, along with its prod- showed positive results in in vitro activity against NiV (Lo rug balapiravir, is the most recent nucleoside analogs to be et al. 2017; Sheahan et al. 2017). Remdesivir is also effec- tested against NiV . Balapiravir, a polymer- tive in in vivo animal models and results in 100% survival. ase inhibitor drug, is being looked at as a possible antiviral Lo et al. carried out a study to test the therapeutic effect drug against NiV. In vitro efficacy studies have highlighted of remdesivir against the NiV-B strain in AGMs. The data the effectiveness of this antiviral agent against both NiV and from that study reported that all the monkeys administrated HeV; however, in vivo, animal studies are further required with lethal doses of the virus survived, and mild respira- to validate this. Recently, this drug has also been tested for tory symptoms were observed in a few monkeys (Lo et al. Dengue virus and hepatitis C virus (HCV), and its narrow 2019). Amid the COVID- 19 pandemic, remdesivir has been therapeutic index and hazardous side effects have been docu- employed in an antiviral treatment regime for SARS-CoV- mented (Roberts et al. 2008; Nguyen et al. 2013). further (Grein et al. 2020; Okoli et al. 2021). A cytidine als in Europe and the USA, and has received approval for ylwen ro desopruper era yeht rehtehw no desab meht gnizirogetac ,tnemtaert )ViN( suriv hapiN rof detagitsevni sgurd larivitna fo weivrevo nA .ViN tsniaga tnempoleved gurd larivitnA elbaT tnempoleved fo egats tnerruc rieht dna ,seiduts oviv ni dna ortiv ni ni ycacffie ,noitca fo smsinahcem rieht sthgilhgih osla tI .depoleved secnerefeR tnempoleved fo egatS ?wen ro desoprupeR snoitatimiL ycacffiE noitca fo msinahceM cituepareht/gurD ygetartS hcaorppa ;)1002( .la te gnohC rof dednemmoceR rof desu( desoprupeR -feni ;cinegotareT ytilataf decudeR ANR lariv stibihnI nirivabiR seugolana edisoelcuN tobruoC-segroeG esu ycnegreme -cefni lariv rehto oviv ni ni evitcef ViN ni %63 yb noitacilper )6002( .la te )snoit stceffe edis ;sledom sesac sitilahpecne ;)7102( .la te oL lacinilcerP -leved( desoprupeR rehtruf seriuqeR ortiv
