Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


prevention of NiV-induced deaths in ham- and tested against live viruses. It exhibited exceptionally ster models . potent neutralization, with IC below 0.6 μg/mL and 0.04 Inhibition of viral entry into host cells is an important μg/mL for HeV and NiV, respectively, binding sG more NiV aspect of antibody-mediated neutralization, both for pro- strongly, despite being selected against sG (Zhu et al. HeV phylactic and for therapeutic antiviral therapy. Glycosyla- 2008). In 2016, 40 human participants completed a phase I explored as new targets for antiviral development. Lectins safety, and tolerability of the mAb m102.4 against NiV-G or carbohydrate-binding proteins have been investigated as protein. This antibody blocked the attachment of NiV-G to potent antivirals that specifically recognize glycosylation ephrin-B2/B3 receptors located on the host cell surface (Xu signatures present solely on the viral surface (O’Keefe et al. et al. 2013). As of now, there were 86 reported side effects 2003; Swanson et al. 2010; Huskens et al. 2010). A man- related to this course of therapy, with similar frequencies nose oligosaccharide-binding lectin derived from red algae, across treated and placebo cohorts; however, no fatalities known as griffithsin (GRFT) protein, has shown broad- have been reported in any group so far . spectrum effectiveness against several clinically important Resistance to m102.4 has also been reported in studies con- enveloped viruses such as HIV, HCV, Herpes simplex virus, ducted in ferrets and AGMs as post-exposure prevention, SARS-CoV, and SARS-CoV- 2 in both in vitro and in vivo following NiV challenge. However, it has been shown in conditions while causing less host damage (Lusvarghi and animal studies that m102.4 was effective within 5 days of Bewley 2016). At the same time, the synthetic trimeric tan- infection with NiV-M and 3 days of infection with HeV, even demer of GRFT called 3 mG is found to be capable of pre- after the development of viral viremia and clinical manifes- venting syncytia formation, induced by the G protein of NiV, tations of the disease (Bossart et al. 2009; Geisbert et al. during infection. Further in vivo studies conducted on NiV- 2014). Another human mAb called h5B3.1, the humanized infected Syrian golden hamsters revealed the considerable version of mAb 5B3, that was developed by immunizing resistance imparted by oxidation-resistant GRFT (Q-GRFT) BALB/c mice with NiV glycoproteins, followed by hybri- and 3 mG against NiV, with 35% and 15% survival rates, doma generation, through splenic lymphocyte
