Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


resistance imparted by oxidation-resistant GRFT (Q-GRFT) BALB/c mice with NiV glycoproteins, followed by hybri- and 3 mG against NiV, with 35% and 15% survival rates, doma generation, through splenic lymphocyte fusion with respectively . SP2/0 cells. Hybridomas producing NiV F-specific antibod- Similarly, researchers have explored the use of defective ies were identified via ELISA and immunoprecipitation, then interfering particles (DIPs), as a potential regulator of the purified using protein G-Sepharose affinity chromatography. dynamics of the viral population that effectively prevents mAb 5B3 completely neutralized NiV at 1.5 μg/mL and HeV NiV replication. It has been reported that DIPs can effec- at 12.5 μg/mL . It inhibits the conforma- tively decrease viral titers by a factor of 100 and reduce cyto- tional changes, required by the F protein of NiV, to initi- pathic effects in Vero cells in in vitro experiments (Welch ate membrane fusion, and this mAb has been established to et al. 2020). DIP genomes are also involved in viral patho- effectively combat NiV and HeV infections in ferrets (Dang genesis, through various processes, such as viral interfer- et al. 2019; Mire et al. 2020). Despite this, since h5B3.1 is ence, persistence, and immunological activation (Vignuzzi only partially characterized in in vivo experiments, more and López 2019). DIPs can modulate virulence, which has studies are needed before it can be given to patients, alone led to an interest in their potential as therapeutic agents. or in combination with m102.4. In vivo studies have shown that DIP accumulation reduces Vaccine in progress disease severity, while the inclusion of DIPs in vaccines increases immunogenicity . Based on emerging knowledge, various vaccines against Immunotherapy NiV are under investigation. Different vaccine candidates have been or are being explored for the development of Antibodies can be an effective therapy for NiV infection vaccines against NiV. Among these different vaccine can- (Fig. 8). In India, emergency use of mAbs against the F and didates, few of them have already been proven effective in in vivo animal experiments. CEPI has been sponsoring the cloning the codon optimized NiV-B G glycoprotein gene against priority pathogens and NiV is one among them. The inserting it into a ChAdOx1 genomic clone at the E1 locus. testing the NiV vaccine and this trial is supported by CEPI. T-REx- 293 cells, purified via CsCl ultracentrifugation, and virus-like particles (Broder et al. 2016; Amaya and Broder sity, show that this vaccine, which
