Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


and this trial is supported by CEPI. T-REx- 293 cells, purified via CsCl ultracentrifugation, and virus-like particles (Broder et al. 2016; Amaya and Broder sity, show that this vaccine, which is a viral vector infused 2020). Until now, the best candidate has been a subunit- with NiV glycoprotein, confers passive immunity in AGMs. vaccine constructed using the soluble G-glycoprotein of the In AGMs, a recombinant measles virus (rMV) expressing Hendra virus (HeV-sG; NCT04199169). A human codon- NiV G protein, also exhibited similar findings (Pedrera et al. optimized HeVsG construct was cloned into pcDNA-CMV 2020). Recombinant rMV-based vaccines, encoding NiV G, with hygro, transfected into 293 F cells, and developed into a F, and N proteins, were also evaluated in vivo in Syrian ham- HeVsG-secreting stable cell line. Recombinant HeVsG was ster animal models. The preliminary data were encouraging, produced in serum-free cultures, purified via affinity and as even the first vaccine dosage elicited a strong humoral gel filtration chromatography, and formulated with Alhydro- immune response . To elicit long- gel™ and CpG ODN 2007 . HeV-sG lasting humoral immune responses, a live-attenuated rabies evokes a cross-protective immune defense against NiV and vaccine against NiV is being evaluated in wildlife (Keshwara NiV strains from Malaysia, Bangladesh, and HeV in non- is the only vaccine legally registered and endorsed by the human primates, ferrets, cats, and horses; however, it dem- Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority onstrates no effectiveness in porcine subjects (Pallister et al. (APVMA), to treat horses, as a preventative measure. Stud- 2013; Middleton et al. 2014). Current research has revealed ies in animals, challenged with NiV, have confirmed that a that HeV-sG can also protect AGMs against the deadly NiV single administration of this vaccine was found to effectively illness 7 days after vaccination . confer protection. This data provides a rationale for its appli- The mRNA vaccine, mRNA- 1215 (NCT05398796), cation in the event of unexpected NiV outbreaks (Mire et al. encodes the secreted stable pre-fusion F protein of the 2016; Geisbert et al. 2021). NiV-M strain which is covalently coupled with its G mono- Recently, with the help of immunoinformatics-based mer. This mRNA vaccine was collaboratively designed approaches, a multi-epitope vaccine was investigated that by the Vaccine Research Center (VRC), Moderna, and was based on high-ranking B and T cell epitopes present the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease on selected NiV proteins. The vaccine’s physicochemical
