Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology (2025) 109:158
KEYWORDS: niv, virus, viral, infection, protein, cells, host, vaccine, transmission, human, fig, respiratory, outbreaks, studies, reported


Research Center (VRC), Moderna, and was based on high-ranking B and T cell epitopes present the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease on selected NiV proteins. The vaccine’s physicochemical (NIAID). It was synthesized using T7 RNA polymerase, properties, antigenicity, and solubility as well as allergenic- with N1-methyl-pseudouridine for enhanced stability. It was ity and toxicity were assessed and were found to be both optimized with Moderna’s codon algorithms. After capping non-toxic and non-allergenic, although randomized studies ethanol-drop nanoprecipitation and the final vaccine under- . A virus-like particle vaccine (VLP), went analytical characterization (Loomis et al. 2021; Rod- created from animal cell culture, has also been developed for rigue et al. 2024). In 2022, Moderna announced the phase I both native F and G glycoproteins. VLPs create significant is still under investigation. The development of a rVSV-NiV any health-related hazards linked with the employment of chimeric vaccine candidate, called PHV02 (NCT06221813), a virion that contains viral DNA . Like was also sponsored by CEPI and is currently under pre-clin- mRNA vaccines, pre-fusion F and pre-fusion G proteins ical trials. PHV02 shares similarities with the Ebola vaccine elicit strong neutralizing antibody responses (Loomis et al. (Ervebo), as it expresses the envelope glycoprotein of Ebola 2021). Another study found that the pre-fusion F protein has along with the G gene of NiV. A rVSV-based live-attenuated more neutralizing potential than post-fusion F, demonstrat- vaccine system (NCT05178901), encoding F and G protein ing the necessity to maintain the pre-fusion conformation in cal studies of this vaccine, in animal models, showed the spectrum of diversity, in response to various antigenic sites, presence of neutralizing antibodies against the NiV-B strain, it is necessary to design a singular vaccine construct having within three weeks of immunization, and later protection the stabilized antigenic conformations of the prefusion NiV studies using the NiV-B challenge showed no indications G and F proteins . Data have validated of illness . Another vaccine candidate, that NiV G and F can be potentially effective immunogens ChAdOx1 NiVB (ISRCTN87634044), was developed by for vaccine development; however, to verify the practical usefulness of this proposed vaccine design, more studies Declarations are required. The low number of NiV cases globally creates Ethics approval Not applicable. a hindrance in the development of NiV vaccines, as this results in a low sample size, which becomes inadequate for Competing interests The authors declare no competing interests. even though the
