WILSON'S DISEASE
KEYWORDS: copper, disease, wilson, penicillamine, wilson disease, normal, excretion, treatment, fig, liver, walshe, cases, copper excretion, case, patient


WILSON'S DISEASE BY C. B. M. WARREN and P. M. G. BROUGHTON (RECEIVED FOR PUBLICATION JANUARY 15, 1962) Wilson's disease (hepatolenticular degeneration) She had had no serious illness until September 1952 is a congenital metabolic disease which is charac- when, at the age of 7, she developed a throat infection terized by an accumulation of toxic amounts of followed by jaundice with enlargement of the liver. Her urine contained bile but her stools were not pale. copper within the body. This is usually associated She was admitted to hospital where her jaundice fluc- withadeficiency ofaprotein, caeruloplasmin,which tuated and she became so anaemic that she was given isresponsible forthetransport ofmostoftheserum a blood transfusion. A diagnosis ofWeil's disease was copper. In addition there is an increased rate of made and shewas treated with penicillin. She was sent absorption of copper from the intestine. Con- home in January 1953, looking well but with her liver sequently copper is deposited in tissues, particularly stillenlarged. Aweeklatershebecamejaundicedagain, the liver and brain, and in the cornea where it may and her liver and spleen had both increased in size. bevisible as aspecificclinical sign (Kayser-Fleischer After temporary recovery jaundice reappeared, and she rings). Most of the signs and symptoms of the was then admitted to the Royal Hospital for Sick disease can be ascribed to the high tissue concen- Children, Edinburgh, under Dr. D. M. Douglas. At this time she was jaundiced (serum bilirubin 7-0 mg./ trations ofcopper occurring in these sites. Theories 100 ml.), anaemic (Hb 9-2 g./100 ml. = 62%), and had of the pathogenesis of this condition have been a raised B.S.R. (20 mm./hour). Alkaline phosphatase reviewed byWalshe (1957, 1959) andbyWalsheand was normal (4 5 K.A. units), but flocculation tests were Cumings (1961). positive (thymol turbidity 6 units; cephalin-cholesterol Treatment aims to reduce the amount of copper 4+). Serological tests (leptospiral agglutinins 1:10) absorbed and to remove the excess from the body were considered to confirm the past infection with by giving agents with which it will form soluble leptospira icterohaemorrhagica. A liver biopsy (March non-toxic complexes excreted by the kidney. The 12, 1953) showed subacute atrophy with nodular hyper- two most effective cupruretic drugs are dimercaprol plasia, and considerable deposition of haemosiderin (Fig. 1). A section stained by Dobell's method was (BAL) (Cumings, 1959) and penicillamine (Walshe, searched for leptospira without success. The jaundice 1956a, 1956b). The latter appears to be the more cleared
