WILSON'S DISEASE
KEYWORDS: copper, disease, wilson, penicillamine, wilson disease, normal, excretion, treatment, fig, liver, walshe, cases, copper excretion, case, patient


A section stained by Dobell's method was (BAL) (Cumings, 1959) and penicillamine (Walshe, searched for leptospira without success. The jaundice 1956a, 1956b). The latter appears to be the more cleared fairly rapidly, and her haemoglobin rose to effective (Walshe, 1960a), but relatively few reports normal,butherliverandspleenwerestillenlargedwhen have appeared on the results of long-term peni- she went home. cillamine treatment (Scheinberg and Sternlieb, When seen by Dr. Douglas on June 8, 1955, her liver 1960; Strong, Dempsey and Hill, 1961). was enlarged three and a half finger breadths and her This paper records two cases of Wilson's disease spleen two finger breadths below the costal margin. in the same family, one severely affected, the other There had been no further episodes ofjaundice. childremainedwelluntilJanuary 1957,whenherparents the former to treatment with penicillamine over a began to notice a gradual change. Her speech became period of four years. slurredandindistinct,andsalivabegantodroolfromher A briefaccount ofCase 1 is included in a review mouth. She was clumsy and jerky in her movements. (Walshe, 1960a) on penicillamine treatment, where Her writing deteriorated and at times was almost ourpatient is referred to as CaseNo. 16. illegible. She was careless and untidy with her belong- ings, and her temperament changed: she was excitable and difficult to handle, having outbursts of temper for Case Reports little or no reason; and sometimes she would just be Case 1. E.M., a girl, born on July 1, 1945, was first found crying. seen at Chelmsford on July 19, 1957, at the age of 11. Examination. She was a pleasant cheerful girl of She was referred for consultation because she had normal physical development for her age (weight 83 lb. developed 'symptoms of severe chorea with twitching (37-6 kg.)). She was restless, excitable and obviously movements and emotional instability' following a slight had some difficulty in fixing her attention. She com- blow on the head. plained ofbeing unable to sit still. From time to time WILSON'S DISEASE 243 FIG. 1.-LiverbiopsyofCase 1 (March 12, 1953). (x108.) she would burst into uncontrolled laughter for very Examination of other systems showed well-marked little reason. When made to concentrate, as in writing, Kayser-Fleischer rings which were visible without the her features became somewhat fixed and expressionless, aid of a slit lamp (Fig. 3). The liver was firm and her mouth hanging slightly open with saliva drooling enlarged two finger breadths below the right costal fromit,sothatshewasconstantlyhavingtowipeitaway margin; the spleen was enlarged two finger
