WILSON'S DISEASE
KEYWORDS: copper, disease, wilson, penicillamine, wilson disease, normal, excretion, treatment, fig, liver, walshe, cases, copper excretion, case, patient


3). The liver was firm and her mouth hanging slightly open with saliva drooling enlarged two finger breadths below the right costal fromit,sothatshewasconstantlyhavingtowipeitaway margin; the spleen was enlarged two finger breadths withthebackofherhand. Mostofthetimesheappeared below the left costal margin. There was no jaundice mildly euphoric, but her mood would change suddenly: spider naevi or liver palms. she would then look solemn and anxious. 'Although the features of her illness made her appear somewhat Investigations. Blood examination showed Hb 12 4 childish and immature, she was in fact not so. Her g./100 ml. (84%). The white blood cells, platelets, red general knowledge was excellent, and she was above cell fragility and B.S.R. were normal; the Wassermann average in intelligence' (Psychiatrist's summary). reaction was negative. The cerebrospinal fluid was Her speech varied greatly according to mood. When normal,withnegative Wassermann and Langereactions. shewasexcited itwas impossible tounderstandwhatshe Liver function tests (bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase was trying to say, but when sheconcentrated and spoke and flocculation reactions) were normal, but the pro- slowlysheformedherwordsandcomposedhersentences thrombin index was 75% and the bromsulphthalein test fairlywell,althoughherspeechremained slurred. There showed some delay in excretion (21% of the injected were no spontaneous involuntary movements as in dyeremained after45 minutes). chorea, butassoon asshegotexcited allhermovements Radiographs of skull and chest were normal, and no became clumsy. Conversely, she could control her oesophageal varices were seen. movements to a certain extent by making a voluntary An electroencephalogram on October 18, 1957, was effort to suppress her excitement. Her gait was almost abnormal. It was dominated by an alpha rhythm of normal when she was walking slowly, but as soon as approximately 10-11 c./sec., with some theta activity. she became excited or tried to hurry she staggered and High voltage slow waves and sharp waves were super- lurched into things, and as a result she had numerous imposed upon these from time to time (Dr. S. L. bruises on her arms and legs. Her handwriting was Sherwood). untidy (Fig. 2). In spite ofher clumsy movements her Her I.Q. on October 11, 1957, was 100 (Terman and grip was constant, and there was no tremor. Merrill, 1937 revision: Stanford Binet Scale). 244 ARCHIVES OF DISEASE IN CHILDHOOD I .jW_ L. a--i am, -4*4 "--a .jb - looll L so-m- I 4". Aa- 9 - -a - I . PM. f if LA -. fflf. " 41 40AdgAD > 1e16t July 15, 1958: inremission. July27, 1957: beforetreatment. __44 wetAA
