WILSON'S DISEASE
KEYWORDS: copper, disease, wilson, penicillamine, wilson disease, normal, excretion, treatment, fig, liver, walshe, cases, copper excretion, case, patient


o t l i d ent t ' a s p s f c r ho o o m l, a co h l o d us t e ap with all .. copper 10 Case Case2 plumbing 30 FIG.4.-Familytree:casesofWilson'sdiseaseareshaded. acids, such asglycine and alanine(Matthews, Milneand Treatment. When the diagnosis ofWilson's diseasewas Bell, 1952), or a high protein diet (Beam and Kunkel, established, measures were taken to reduce the intake 1954) increased the urine copper excretion of patients ofcopper and stimulate its excretion. She was put on with Wilson's disease. The copper excretion of our a lcw copper diet which excluded cocoa products, nuts, patient was measured, over three-day periods, first liver, shellfish, mushrooms and spinach (Scheinberg and when on a low protein intake (40 g. daily) and then on Stemlieb, 1960); this contained not more than about a high protein diet (100 g. daily). There was no signi- 1 mg. copper per day (by tables) compared with about ficant difference between these two periods, and it was 2 mg. in a normal diet. Specimens of tap water were concluded that the addition of extra protein did not analysed forcopper. Theresults (Table) suggested that increase the output ofcopper whilst the patient was on on anormalfluid intakethepatientwas unlikely to take penicillamine (Fig. 5). in more than about 50l±g. copper per day in tap water, By December 21, 1957, after three months of treat- and no special measures were considered necessary to ment, the patient had improved clinically and was sent deal with this. Potassium sulphide (20 mg. t.d.s.) was home on 0 9 g. penicillamine daily, together with potas- given before meals in an attempt to reduce copper siumsulphideandalowcopperdiet. absorption by forming insoluble copper sulphide in the intestine(Cartwright, Hodges,Gubler, Mahoney, Daum, Progress. In April 1958, after continuous treatment Wintrobe and Bean, 1954). This part ofthe treatment withpenicillamine0 45-0 9g./day,considerableimprove- has been continuous. ment was noticed. Although still rather excitable, her It was decided to use D-penicillamine hydrochloride behaviour had improved and her handwriting was (ff-dimethylcysteine) as the chelating agent to promote clearer. There was no longer any difficulty in under- urinary excretion of copper. At the time little was standing her speech, and her gait was normal. Before known of the best dose to employ or the conditions this the electroencephalogram (February 18, 1958) had under which it would be most effective. The urine shown some improvement: it was a little
