WILSON'S DISEASE
KEYWORDS: copper, disease, wilson, penicillamine, wilson disease, normal, excretion, treatment, fig, liver, walshe, cases, copper excretion, case, patient


best dose to employ or the conditions this the electroencephalogram (February 18, 1958) had under which it would be most effective. The urine shown some improvement: it was a little more stable copper excretion was, therefore, measured on at least withfewersharpwaves. Theliverfunctiontestsremained two successive 24-hour specimens, in an attempt to normal with the exception of the bromsulphthalein assess the effectiveness ofvarious forms oftherapy. excretion which was still reduced (30% remained 45 Penicillamine was started on September 28, 1957. minutes after injection), but the hepatosplenomegaly Thiswasgivenatfirstinthreedosesdaily,eachof0 3 g. and the Kayser-Fleischer rings were unchanged. by mouth after meals. As a result, the urine copper In May 1958 she was able to return to school, and excretion increased and built up over about three weeks two months latershe wasclinically in remission and the toabout2,000,ug./24hours. Thedosewasthenvaried: excessive salivation had ceased. Her urine copper as it was increased, at weekly intervals, from0-3 to 0-6 excretion had fallen from 2,000 ,ug./24 hours to 1,000 to 0 9 g. daily, the urine coppei excretion varied accor- ,ug./24 hours; penicillamine was therefore stopped for dingly. There was, however, relatively little increase in a trial period of one month, although the potassium copper excretion when the dose was increased from 0-9 sulphide and low copper diet were continued. At the to 1 2 g. per day, and it was concluded that 0 9 g. was end of this break in treatment she was still clinically the most efficient daily dose. When penicillamine was well,andonrestartingpenicillaminetherewasnomarked stopped copper excretion fell immediately to pre- cupruresis such as might have been expected if copper treatmentlevels. Thesechangesareillustrated in Fig. 5. had been reaccumulating. At first it was thought that penicillamine might easily In October 1958, a year after starting treatment, her beoxidized in vivotothecystinederivative,whichwould urine copper excretion had fallen to 300 [Lg./24 hours. be inactive (Walshe, 1956b). Ascorbic acid (500 mg. It was decided, therefore, to stop penicillamine for a daily) was, therefore, given for a week with the peni- period of three months and to observe the child. cillamine in an attempt to keep the latter in the active Clinically she remained in remission, although her reduced form, but this resulted in no further increase in electroencephalogram (January 27, 1959) still showed copperexcretion. Scheinberg and Stemlieb (1960) have some abnormal activity. reported similar results. On restarting penicillamine in January 1959, there Ithadbeenshownpreviouslythatthefeedingofamino was again no marked cupruresis; and by February her 246
