WILSON'S DISEASE
KEYWORDS: copper, disease, wilson, penicillamine, wilson disease, normal, excretion, treatment, fig, liver, walshe, cases, copper excretion, case, patient


copperexcretion. Scheinberg and Stemlieb (1960) have some abnormal activity. reported similar results. On restarting penicillamine in January 1959, there Ithadbeenshownpreviouslythatthefeedingofamino was again no marked cupruresis; and by February her 246 ARCHIVES OF DISEASE IN CHILDHOOD D-PENICILLAMINE I*2 >a- 0-9 X 0-6 0 0-3 ASCORBIC ACID LOW PROTEINDIET HIGH 2,500 SOOmgi/dy PROTEIN I DIET I *2.000 I' X I I lw a. I a.1,000 0IL u L zIISo - 0 I D II I *mI~1~~*-I I 30 w.- 30 99 19 29 9 19 10 20 SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC. FIG. 5.-InitialresponseofCase 1 topenicillamine. urine copper excretion had fallen to about 150 [ig./ incoordinated so that she was beginning to have some 24 hours. There seemed little purpose in continuing difficulty in feeding herself. She had become euphoric, the drug since it was removing only small amounts of and for the first time had developed a coarse tremor of copper, and it was stopped on February 6. Thepatient her arms and hands when excited. She now had con- was seen at frequent intervals, and at the end of June, siderable difficulty in writing and saliva dripped from when no penicillamine had been given for nearly five hermouth. months, her parents reported that her condition had At this time it was thought that she was becoming deteriorated during the previous three weeks. She was resistant to penicillamine, and various measures were more excitable and her speech was less clear, although tried to increase the effectiveness of this therapy. there was no return of the abnormal salivation. Her Addition of ascorbic acid (500 mg. per day) to the writing was again untidy (Fig. 2), her movements were penicillamine treatment for one week (as we showed stiffback. 24-hourly copper excretion. In vitro experiments had Penicillamine was restarted and within a week her shown that the binding of penicillamine to copper was parents noticed an improvement in her behaviour: stronger in alkaline solution (J. M. Walshe, personal she had become calmer, her speech was clearer and her communication). She was, therefore, given sodium movements were more controlled. On restarting citrate with penicillamine for one week to make the higher (900 ,ug./24 hours) than it had been after two biochemicalresponse. Penicillamine was firstdiscovered previous breaks in treatment. in the urine of cases of cirrhosis who were receiving In September 1959 she was again in remission, but penicillin (Walshe, 1953), and it was thought that our penicillamine
