WILSON'S DISEASE
KEYWORDS: copper, disease, wilson, penicillamine, wilson disease, normal, excretion, treatment, fig, liver, walshe, cases, copper excretion, case, patient


treatment. in the urine of cases of cirrhosis who were receiving In September 1959 she was again in remission, but penicillin (Walshe, 1953), and it was thought that our penicillamine was producing only minimal cupruresis. patient might metabolize the latter compound to peni- It was decided to stop the drugagain to seewhetherthe cillamine, with a resulting cupruresis. She was given rather non-specific symptoms and signs which had ashortcourseoforal, and then intramuscularpenicillin, occurred two months before were in fact directlyrelated together with penicillamine, but this produced no to cessation of this treatment. When seen three weeks significant cupruresis. later she was again excitable and emotionally unstable; Other penicillamine compounds were then tried. The her speech was slurred and she was beginning to drool isopropylidene derivative is hydrolysed in vitro to the the penicillamine was restarted. tion), but when this compound (0 9 g./day) was sub- February 1960 she had definitely deteriorated. Her Scheinberg and Sternlieb (1960) likewise noted that this parents then reported that her movements had become compound was inactive. DL-penicillamine hydro- WILSON'S DISEASE 247 chloride (045 g. daily) was given for four days, but this she was examined on December 19, 1960. Since then was no more effective than the D-isomer which had there has been further improvement, and now she has previously been used. Finally the patient was given losthertremorandtherearenoneurologicalsigns. The 0 9 g. D-penicillamine intravenously, made up in a pint Kayser-Fleischer rings have become paler. A psycho- ofsixthmolarsodiumlactate, overaperiodofsixhours. logical report on April 13, 1961, gave her mental age Thecopperexcretion duringthis daywasnohigherthan as 15 years 9 months, and her I.Q. as 116. An electro- it had been when the patient was on oral penicillamine encephalogram on March 20, 1961, was more stable hydrochloride. than that of March 20, 1960. The hepatospleno- In August 1960, following the failure of any of these megalyand liverfunction testshavenotchanged, butno measures to effect an increase in the 24-hourly copper oesophageal varices have developed, and transaminase Cambridge, for copper clearance studies (Dr. J. M. When theresults ofcopperanalysis werere-examined, Walshe). Her serum copper was found to be 42 ,tg./ itwasfound thatsignificant changeshad occurred in the 100ml. (normal 68-165 Vg./100 ml., Cartwright, Marko- 'basal' copper excretion, i.e. the urine copper excretion witz, Shields and Wintrobe, 1960), and after a single whenthepatienthadreceivednopenicillaminetreatment dose of 0 9 g. penicillamine her copper clearance rose foratleastfive days (Fig. 7). Continuouspenicillamine from0 3to 17 3ml./min. overasix-hourperiod(Fig. 6). treatment at first
