WILSON'S DISEASE
KEYWORDS: copper, disease, wilson, penicillamine, wilson disease, normal, excretion, treatment, fig, liver, walshe, cases, copper excretion, case, patient


put him on a low copper diet, to give him potassium disposition. In an electroencephalogram (March 20, sulphide(seeCase1),andtowatchthecourseofevents. 1961) the spike focus previously seen was no longer present, and the record (Fig. 8) showed no abnormality Progress. Although heremained freefrom symptoms, (Dr. C. C. Evans). His basal copper excretion and WILSON'S DISEASE 249 4 A teab\1e\541;24 *22 1 21 \N W a,6W6W2rgwV5¢\+>VlW9~~~9 0@ FIG. 8.-Electroencephalograms ofCase 2 hefore(April 12, 1960) andafter(March20. 1961) penicillamine treatment. serum transaminase levels have decreased, but are still in the body in amounts sufficient to produce signs abnormal. and symptoms of toxicity. This process will presumably start at birth, and many factors, such Discussion as diet, will affect the rate of accumulation. In Wilson's disease may be expected to present a review of22 cases, Walshe (1960a) found that the clinically at an age when copper has accumulated average age of onset was l48 years, the youngest FIG.9.-LiverbiopsyofCase2(January5, 1961). (x108.) 250 ARCHIVES OF DISEASE IN CHILDHOOD being 8 years. Patients may therefore present as a a low caeruloplasmin level, is probably the simplest paediatric problem in whom the diagnosis may not diagnostic test for this disease. at first be obvious. The renal manifestations of Wilson's disease In Wilson's (1912) original account ofthe disease havereceivedcomparatively littleattention. Copper he described the association of hepatic cirrhosis deposition in the kidneys may result in a failure withtremor,muscularrigidity, dysarthria, dysphagia of tubular reabsorption. This renal involvement and emotional disturbances. Later descriptions is best seen as a generalized aminoaciduria (Stein, haveshownthattheclinicalpicturemaybeextremely Bearn and Moore, 1954), but there is no character- varied and in some cases the liver involvement is istic pattern, and it may not be seen in all cases. unobtrusive. The commonest presenting symptom Bearn (1957) concluded that the lesion was similar in Walshe's (1960a) series was tremor, often asso- to that of the Fanconi syndrome and suggested ciated with dysarthria, Parkinsonism and chorei- that this was the cause of the radiographic abnor- form movements. However, some cases may malities seen in the joints of 13 out of 19 cases. present with evidence of liver damage and never However, a disturbance of calcium metabolism show neurological signs; Wilson's disease should in the absence of renal damage has been observed therefore be considered in any patient withjuvenile in Wilson's disease (Playoust and Dale, 1961), and cirrhosis, particularly if a sibling has previously this might explain some ofthe radiological changes. hadliverdisease (Chalmers, Iberand Uzman,
