WILSON'S DISEASE
KEYWORDS: copper, disease, wilson, penicillamine, wilson disease, normal, excretion, treatment, fig, liver, walshe, cases, copper excretion, case, patient


in any patient withjuvenile in Wilson's disease (Playoust and Dale, 1961), and cirrhosis, particularly if a sibling has previously this might explain some ofthe radiological changes. hadliverdisease (Chalmers, Iberand Uzman, 1957). The genetic aspects of this disease have been The one pathognomonic sign-Kayser-Fleischer summarized by Bearn (1953), who considered that rings-is so important that it is worth examining it was inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. the eyes with a slit lamp; but occasionally fully The family history is therefore an important factor developed cases have been reported without corneal in diagnosis. When a case has been discovered rings (Chalmers et al., 1957; Lygren, Sdrensen and other members of the family should be examined Bernhardsen, 1959). and investigated. A number of authors have Thus the symptoms and signs are extremely found siblings who were normal on physical exami- variable. Case 1 was probably typical in that the nation but had some degree of biochemical abnor- diagnosis was not immediately obvious, but in mality, and the significance of this may be difficult retrospect theclinical picture was seen to be charac- to evaluate. Warnock and Neill (1958) considered teristic of the disease. The first relevant sign was that laboratory findings were seldom diagnostic in fluctuatingjaundice which, at the time, was ascribed the absence of physical signs, and Cartwright et al. to Weil's disease, but in view oflater developments (1960) support this and suggest that corneal rings the correctness of this diagnosis is questionable. arealwayspresentina truecase ofWilson's disease, It seems more likely that the child had a haemolytic even before the appearance of symptoms. It is episode, similar to those recorded in patients with clear, however, that biochemical changes could Wilson's disease (Cartwright et al., 1954; Schein- indicate the presence of the disease which will stones in a radiograph (1960) supports this con- et al. (1959) described a brother, aged 23, of an tention. affected case, who was normal when first seen, The abnormalities of copper metabolism in this although his serum caeruloplasmin was low. The disease are shown in the low serum level and diseasefirstshoweditself14monthslaterandrapidly increased urine excretion. The former test is progressed to a fatal cirrhosis with the typical difficult and time consuming, and may not show findings ofWilson'sdisease. Othershavedescribed a clear discrimination between the normal range similar cases diagnosed before the appearance of (68-165 ,ug./100 ml.) and that in Wilson's disease any signs or symptoms (Bickel, Neale and Hall, (23-116
