WILSON'S DISEASE
KEYWORDS: copper, disease, wilson, penicillamine, wilson disease, normal, excretion, treatment, fig, liver, walshe, cases, copper excretion, case, patient


clear discrimination between the normal range similar cases diagnosed before the appearance of (68-165 ,ug./100 ml.) and that in Wilson's disease any signs or symptoms (Bickel, Neale and Hall, (23-116 ,ug./100 ml.) . The 1957; Walshe, 1960a), and one who was detected serum caeruloplasmin is usually proportional to at the age of 10 months (Scheinberg and Sternlieb, the serum copper, but normal values have been 1960). In contrast tothis,somerelativesofpatients reported in a small proportion of cases (Sass with Wilson's disease may show single biochemical Kortsak, Cherniak, Geiger and Slater, 1959; Enger, abnormalities, such as aminoaciduria (Soothill, 1959; Rosenoer and Franglen, 1959; Walshe, Blainey, Neale, Fischer-Williams and Melnick, 1960a), although in some ofthese the concentration 1961), low serum copper and fell to abnormally low levels after penicillamine low caeruloplasmin level (Vella, 1959; Cartwright treatment (Walshe and Cumings, 1961). The et al., 1960), without developing any other signs of urine copper excretion is invariably increased three- the disease. This emphasizes the importance of fold, and the demonstration of this, together with using as many independent tests as possible. WILSON'S DISEASE 251 We believe that biochemical tests are called for The best biochemical index of response to treat- in all siblings of known cases of Wilson's disease. ment was found to be the basal copper excretion Those found to have a low caeruloplasmin and (Fig. 7). This probably reflects the size of the increased urine copper excretion should be investi- body's copper pool, which may still be relatively gated periodically for signs of neurological and large when symptoms have disappeared. In some hepatic disease. The following tests may be useful cases thecopper deposits in the livercanbe reduced in providing this evidence: or removed with effective treatment (Sherlock, 1. Liver function tests, together with trans- 1960), but those in the cornea appear to be more aminaselevels and bromsulphthalein excretion, may resistant. The fading of the Kayser-Fleischer be abnormal. rings is a sure sign of long-term improvement, and 2. A liver biopsy often shows signs of cirrhosis is seen in relatively few cases (Fister et al., 1958; (Figs. 1 and 9) and excessive deposition of copper Walshe, 1960a; Scheinberg and Sternlieb, 1960; in that organ . Strong etal., 1961). 3. Paper chromatography may demonstrate an aminoaciduria. Summary 4. An electroencephalogram may show non- The biochemical defect in Wilson's disease is specific changes, such as those described above present at birth, and in a high proportion
