WILSON'S DISEASE
KEYWORDS: copper, disease, wilson, penicillamine, wilson disease, normal, excretion, treatment, fig, liver, walshe, cases, copper excretion, case, patient


aminoaciduria. Summary 4. An electroencephalogram may show non- The biochemical defect in Wilson's disease is specific changes, such as those described above present at birth, and in a high proportion of cases (1960). childhood, although their significance is not always 5. A test dose of penicillamine should produce recognized at the time. amarked cupruresis (Fig. 6). Asisterandbrotherwiththediseasearedescribed. 6. The radioactive copper uptake may show The former had an attack of jaundice five years characteristicchanges(OsbornandWalshe, 1958). before she presented with the typical picture of Case 2 is a good example of this, and many Wilson's disease. She was treated with penicill- independent lines of evidence now support the amine (0 45-1 2 g. per day), a low copper diet and diagnosis of Wilson's disease. It is clear that the potassiumsulphide overaperiod offouryears, with whilst there are still no clinical signs or Kayser- relapseswereshowntobeduetoinadequatedosesof Fleischer rings. We believe that such cases should penicillamine. be treated. The second child was diagnosed biochemically Penicillamine is probably the most effective at the age of6 when there was no other evidence of chelating agent yet found for the treatment of this disease. Three years laterno obvious symptoms or disease(Walshe, 1960a). Somecasesfailtorespond classical signshaddeveloped, buttherewasevidence to this or other drugs, although they may have a of liver damage, electroencephalographic changes cupruresis; this could be due to treatment starting and accumulation of copper. Many independent too late. In many instances adequate doses of lines of evidence thus supported the diagnosis of penicillamine bring about complete relief of symp- Wilson's disease in an active but silent form, and toms; with our cases the parents often noticed the the patient is symptomless after six months ofpeni- reversal ofemotional behavioural difficulties within cillamine treatment. twoto three weeks. Hollister etal. (1960) likewise Copper clearances were a better indication of noted that mental signs of the disease may precede sensitivity to penicillamine than were the 24-hour theneurological signs, andthatbehavioural changes copper excretion figures. In the first case the best werenotinfrequent. index of long-term response to treatment was the The dosage necessary to produce a remission will basalcopperexcretion, measured onurinescollected probably depend on the individual, and Case 1 when the patient had received no penicillamine clearly shows that relapses were due to inadequate forfive days. amounts of penicillamine. Doses of up to 4-5 g. The difficulties of diagnosis in asymptomatic dailyhavebeenusedinsomecases (Fister, Boulding siblings ofcases ofWilson's diseaseare discussed. andBaker, 1958;Seven,KlimanandPeterson, 1959; Scheinberg and Sternlieb,
