Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


ABSTRACT Understanding the involvement of the insulin-GH-IGF-axis in the different phases of human growth, development, and metabolism is the key to understanding human pathophysiology. The normal physiological actions of the axis optimize human growth and metabolism to impact adult height by approximately one third. IGF binding proteins modulate access of circulating IGF-I to the tissues and modulate IGF-I and -II access to the type 1 IGF receptor (IGF1R) at the cellular level. Complete lack of IGF1R signaling is most likely not compatible with a viable human fetus, while allelic haploinsufficiency impairs brain development and causes severe short stature. Lack of insulin receptor signaling in Leprechaunism may result in the rare event of an alive but severely small for gestational age baby that will only survive if treated with recombinant-IGF-1 to substitute inulin receptor signaling with IGF1R signaling via their common intracellular pathways. IGF-I gene defects result in mental retardation and severe fetal and postnatal growth failure with GH hypersecretion and marked insulin resistance. Likewise, IGF2 gene defects or imprinting defects cause severe fetal growth failure but somewhat less adverse effects on postnatal growth, more variable effects on brain development, and an absence of marked metabolic effects. GH fine-tunes insulin and IGF-I signaling with no impact on IGF-II expression and has a minor impact on fetal development and growth. GH effects on lipolysis are established in the newborn and ensure gluconeogenesis and prevents hypoglycemia after birth. The complete absence of GH expression such as in GHRHR or GH1 gene defects or absence of GH signaling in GHR or STAT5B gene defect leads to an adult height of 120-130cm if untreated, and has severe metabolic consequences. Even excess of insulin, GH, IGF-I and IGF-II signaling are associated with severe metabolic disease and excess growth and/or obesity. Malnutrition or malabsorption causes decreased insulin signaling which reduces GHR expression and blocks the GH signaling pathway leading to IGF-I expression (GHR uncoupling), while GH’s metabolic actions on lipolysis and gluconeogenesis are unaffected. GH signaling attenuate insulin actions on glucose metabolism which causes insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia or may precipitate diabetes. However, insulin signaling pathways that enhances GHR function or suppress IGFBP-1 or SHBG production are still intact and promote anabolism, optimize growth, enhance androgen actions and play a mechanistic role in premature adrenarche and PCOS. Long-term nutritional deprivation compromises growth, while from a developmental perspective, decreased insulin signaling (leading to GHR uncoupling) prolongs life (at
