Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


and play a mechanistic role in premature adrenarche and PCOS. Long-term nutritional deprivation compromises growth, while from a developmental perspective, decreased insulin signaling (leading to GHR uncoupling) prolongs life (at least in some experimental animal models) which ensures that fertile age is reached, and survival of the species is ensured. For the health of the general population, the subtle changes in insulin, GH and IGF-I signaling associated with gene polymorphisms or epigenetic changes programmed during fetal and early postnatal life and affecting gene expression are important. They determine growth and pubertal development in childhood and predispose the individual for developing the metabolic diseases and malignancies in adult life, as predicted by the Barker hypothesis. As the roles of the insulin-GH-IGF-axis in growth and metabolism, often discussed separately, are intimately linked they will be described jointly here. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . EARLY WORK DEFINING THE INSULIN-GH-IGF-AXIS Daughaday realized that the mitogenic effect of GH in the growth plate was not direct but mediated by Insulin-like Growth Factor-I (IGF-I), at that time named sulphation factor or somatomedin C ( 1 ). Another effect of IGF-I was insulin-like and not inhibited by insulin specific antibodies ( 2 , 3 , 4 ) and therefore it was named non-suppressible Insulin-like activity (NSILA). Hall and Van Wyk purified IGF-I from human muscle extracts ( 5 , 6 ) and realized that these biological activities originated from the same molecule. They also identified significant quantities in blood ( 7 ). The primary structure of IGF-I and Insulin-like Growth Factor-II (IGF-II) was discovered by Froesch and coworkers as a result of their persistent work to characterize the metabolic activity of NSILA ( 8 , 9 ). Soon after, the mitogenic activity of the sulphation factor or somatomedin C as well as somatomedin A was shown to be identical to IGF-I ( 10 ). Rechler and Nissley demonstrated that IGF-II was identical to multiplication stimulating activity, a factor known to stimulate DNA synthesis in chick embryo fibroblasts ( 11 ). The concept that binding proteins existed for peptide hormones like the IGFs, similar to those for steroid and thyroid hormones, were suggested by studies from Zapf and Froesch ( 12 ) and by Hintz ( 13 ), demonstrating that NSILA was present in high molecular weight complexes in serum. The binding was exclusive to IGFs
