Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


Zapf and Froesch ( 12 ) and by Hintz ( 13 ), demonstrating that NSILA was present in high molecular weight complexes in serum. The binding was exclusive to IGFs and did not apply to insulin or proinsulin despite their structural similarities. High molecular weight IGF-I complexes with IGFBPs were GH dependent ( 14 ) and formed a ternary complex composed of IGFBP-3 ( 15 ), the Acid Labile Subunit (ALS) ( 16 ) and IGF-I or IGF-II. Low molecular weight complexes contained IGF-I or IGF-II bound to an insulin regulated liver derived protein IGFBP-1 ( 17 , 18 ), at first called the 28 kDa binding protein or PP12 ( 19 ). The existence of other IGF binding proteins, six in total, became clear when Hossenloop ( 20 ) developed Western ligand blotting as a technique to quantify these proteins. The components of the IGF-IGFBP-system are outlined in Figure 1 . Figure 1. The primary structures of IGF-I, IGF-II and insulin are similar. IGFs are produced by many differentiated cell types, and their bioactivity in the extracellular fluids or in the circulation are coordinated by six IGF binding proteins (IGFBP-1 through -6). IGFBP-3, the major binding protein in serum is stimulated by GH and it forms a large 150 kDa ternary complex with IGF-I or -II and the GH regulated acid labile subunit (ALS). IGFBP-5, an important supporter of bone tissue formation, also forms ternary complexes with IGF-I or -II and ALS. IGFBP-1, suppressed by insulin, is one of several binding proteins in the smaller 50 kDa binary complexes with IGF-I or –II. IGFBP-2 has inverse association with insulin under many physiological conditions. In contrast, IGFBP-4, -5 and -6 do not appear to be directly regulated by GH or insulin and are important local regulators of IGF activity in bone and the CNS. The type 1 IGF receptor (IGF1R) is the mediator of the mitogenic, anti-apoptotic, differentiating and metabolic effects of both IGF-I and -II. The structural similarity of the IGF1R with the insulin receptor (IR) explains the formation of hybrid receptors in cells that expresses both receptors such as myocytes and pre-adipocytes. Cross reactivity among the ligands and the receptors have been demonstrated, although it has minor importance under physiological conditions but may cause non-islet-cell tumor hypoglycemia due to unprocessed pro-IGFs with markedly decreased binding affinity to IGFBPs. A second receptor, exclusively binding IGF-II, work as a scavenger
