Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


under physiological conditions but may cause non-islet-cell tumor hypoglycemia due to unprocessed pro-IGFs with markedly decreased binding affinity to IGFBPs. A second receptor, exclusively binding IGF-II, work as a scavenger receptor and is identical to the mannose-6-phosphate receptor, known to direct proteins for degradation in the lysosomes. A second level of control of IGF bioactivity is exerted by IGFBP proteases which release IGF-I activity after fragmentation of IGFBPs. Specific production and regulation of IGFBP proteases at the tissue level controls processes such as ovulation and atherosclerosis. Furthermore, interaction of IGFBPs and IGFBP proteases with the extracellular matrix modify the binding affinity for the IGFs and are involved in prolonging the actions of IGFs at the tissue level. Extracellular matrix also signals though integrin receptors on the cell surface and modifies IGF-1R signaling. This figure also shows the existence of IGFBP-related proteins with markedly lower affinity for the IGFs and with physiological roles not related to their IGF binding. ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS ESSENTIAL FOR THE UNDERSTANDING OF HUMAN INSULIN-GH-IGF AXIS PHYSIOLOGY Insulin, IGF-I, and IGF-II and Their Receptors Efstratiadis’ series of knock-outs of the insulin-GH-IGF-axis in mice in the early 1990s clearly confirmed its importance in fetal and postnatal growth and metabolism ( 21 ). It also predicted the phenotype of experiment of nature in humans with gene defects in the axis yet to be discovered. The studies opened new insights, not least the equal importance of IGF-I and IGF-II in fetal growth, reducing birth weight by about 60% in both Igf1 knock-out ( Igf1 ko) and Igf2 ko animals and demonstrating that the previous perceived concept that there was a fetal (IGF-II) and a postnatal (IGF-I) form of IGF was incorrect. IGF-I and -II had actions through the type 1 IGF receptor (IGF1R) demonstrated by Igf1r ko animals with 45% of wild type birth weight and no further effect when crossed with Igf1 ko animals. While Igf1 ko animals were viable depending on genetic background and were non-fertile, the Igf1r ko animals died from respiratory failure but with an absence of apparent malformations. Interestingly, crossing Igf2 ko with Igf1 rko resulted in further growth retardation indicating that IGF-II had actions through an additional receptor. Another new insight came from knock-out of the ‘mysterious type 2 IGF receptor’, identical to the mannose-6 phosphate receptor (M6P-R), specifically binding IGF-II and involved in internalization of proteins for lysosomal degradation. Knock-out of the Igf2r /
