Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


the ‘mysterious type 2 IGF receptor’, identical to the mannose-6 phosphate receptor (M6P-R), specifically binding IGF-II and involved in internalization of proteins for lysosomal degradation. Knock-out of the Igf2r / M6pr resulted in increased serum and tissue levels of IGF-II and fetal overgrowth (140% of wild-type birth weight) ( 22 ). This receptor works to clear IGF-II and its presence in endothelial cells may, at least partly, explain the lack of endocrine actions of IGF-II due to its proteolytic lysosomal degradation ( 23 ). Thus, IGF-II effects on fetal growth are paracrine/autocrine actions mediated by the IGF1R. Knock-out of the Igf2r / M6pr gene combined with Igf2 ko/ Igf1r ko could partly rescue growth retardation, a finding that was explained by IGF-II actions via the insulin receptor (INSR). The formation of heterodimers, more commonly named hybrid receptors, between type A or B isoforms of the insulin receptors (INSR A or INSR B ) and the IGF1R of which IR A -IGF1R are highly expressed in the fetus (and in malignant cells) and activated by IGF-II, may further point to the importance of IGF-II during the fetal period. INSR B -IGF1R hybrids comprises up to 30% of INSR and IGF-I receptors in muscle due to high expression of both and this hybrid predominantly responds to IGF-I (less to insulin) and explains the important role of IGF-I in growth and metabolism in skeletal muscle. Postnatally, the Igf1 ko mice continued to grow poorly, resulting in an adult weight 30% of wild-type and with poor gonadal function and delayed bone development. Knock-out of GH or its receptor (GHR), both expressed in the mouse fetus, did not affect birth size, indicating that the Igf 1 gene is not under GH control during the fetal period. The actions of GH and its receptor on growth in mice were obvious from postnatal day 15 and largely slowed growth resulting in a 50% reduction of wild-type adult weight. On the other hand, double Ghr ko/ Igf1 ko resulted in further postnatal growth retardation relative to Igf1 ko mice completely obstructing further weight gain after postnatal day 15 and supporting previous studies suggesting that progenitor cells in the growth plate require direct GH actions ( 24 ). IGFBPs and IGFBP Proteases Like the above attempts to pinpoint the role of important ligands and receptors in the axis, steps to assess the role of IGF binding proteins involved in
