Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


and IGFBP Proteases Like the above attempts to pinpoint the role of important ligands and receptors in the axis, steps to assess the role of IGF binding proteins involved in modulating IGF-I and IGF-II bioactivity were taken (reviewed by Pintar ( 25 )). In contrast to the pronounced phenotypes caused by mutations in receptors and their ligands, the growth phenotypes of the various IGFBP knock-out animals were far less pronounced as were the metabolic changes observed ( 26 , 27 , 28 ). It was argued that there is a large degree of redundancy among the functions of the IGFBPs which to some extend contradicts their specialized functions in various tissues ( 29 ). However, this idea was to some extent supported by the finding of somewhat more pronounced phenotypes in double and triple knock-out animals ( 30 ). This is largely in accordance with the absence of reports of IGFBP gene defects causing growth retardation in humans. The most affected phenotype identified was that of Igfbp4 ko mice who were growth retarded at birth and displayed poor postnatal growth ( 30 ). No such mutation has been identified in humans. IGFBP-4 is specifically degraded by the metalloproteinase PAPP-A (Pregnancy Associated Plasma Protease -A) produced by the placenta as well as bone and ovary. In Pappa knock-out animals a 20-30% reduction in body weight was reported ( 31 ). Interestingly, the growth restriction phenotype of mice null for Pappa could be rescued by disruption of IGF-II imprinting during embryonic development ( 32 ). Endocrine Versus Paracrine Autocrine IGF-I One of the controversies of the area has been the relative contribution to linear growth of circulating endocrine IGF-I largely produced by the liver versus peripherally produced IGF-I with major paracrine/autocrine actions on local tissues. The major importance of paracrine/autocrine IGF-I was demonstrated by liver specific Igf1 ko mice ( Ligf1 ko) with largely unaffected longitudinal growth ( 33 ). Circulating levels were 20% of wild-type with compensatory elevation of GH, insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia. With age the animals developed type 2 diabetes, underlining the metabolic consequences of largely elevated GH combined with circulating IGF-I deficiency ( 34 ). Somewhat unexpectedly, this animal model closely resembles children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes, as further elaborated on below. Another model to assess the relative importance of endocrine versus paracrine/autocrine IGF-I is the liver-specific Ghr ko mouse. It produces a similar phenotype but
