Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


diabetes, as further elaborated on below. Another model to assess the relative importance of endocrine versus paracrine/autocrine IGF-I is the liver-specific Ghr ko mouse. It produces a similar phenotype but with more specific hepatic consequences of absent GH signaling ( 35 ). INSULIN-GH-IGF AXIS PHYSIOLOGY, A PEDIATRIC PERSPECTIVE Insulin-GH-IGF-Axis and Human Fetal Growth IGF-I controls the pace of the cell cycle from early on in human embryogenesis. INSR and IGF1R is expressed in human pre-implantation blastocysts already from the 8-cell stage, while IGF-II is expressed already in the oocyte ( 36 ). After implantation, IGF-I is produced in the human embryo ( 37 ), but until then the source of IGF-I is thought to be the female reproductive tract, and it is known that the availability of the IGF-I ligand is important for blastocyst growth in human in vitro fertilization - IVF ( 38 ). IGF-I production is controlled by nutritional factors in the early embryo and even later during human fetal development ( 39 ). Circulating endocrine IGF-I increases with gestational age ( 40 ) and is strongly correlated with fetal growth in the second part of gestation ( 41 , 42 ). However, little has been reported concerning the regulatory control of the IGF1 gene in the human fetus. IGFBPs can be identified in the human fetal circulation ( 40 ), and recently the role of IGFBP-5 in regulating fetal growth was suggested by fetal growth retardation in the absence of a specific IGFBP-5 protease, PPAP-A2 ( 43 ). Insulin continues to be permissive for IGF-I production even after GH is established as the major pituitary stimuli controlling endocrine as well as paracrine/autocrine IGF-I, as described below. Fetal Growth Restriction and Programming of the Insulin-GH-IGF-Axis Setpoint Insulin resistance has been developmentally advantageous for mankind until very recent decades of excess food and sedentary life style. It was proposed by Barker et al ( 44 ) in his ‘fetal and infant origin of adult disease’ hypothesis that intrauterine restriction of growth compensated by excessive postnatal catch-up growth results in an increased risk of developing disease entities of the metabolic syndrome later in life. In his early epidemiological studies, he demonstrated that there is a U-shaped relationship between birth weight and risk of obesity, insulin resistance, type 1 diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia and ischemic heart disease, with lower birth weight (within the normal range) imposing a risk. Notably, at higher birth
