Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


and risk of obesity, insulin resistance, type 1 diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia and ischemic heart disease, with lower birth weight (within the normal range) imposing a risk. Notably, at higher birth weights this risk rises again which may represent genetic risks of obesity and type 2 diabetes. The concept was that poor fetal nutrition would lower fetal IGF-I and program the child to a low IGF-I setpoint and slower postnatal growth, an epigenetic phenomenon that could be preserved over a few generations ( 45 ). At the same time, small for gestational age (SGA) babies becomes insulin resistant ( 46 ) and this trait is enforced by a low endocrine IGF-I setpoint ( 47 ), creating the best physiological circumstances for the storage of fat during short times of food availability in a world with limited access to food. However, in a world of plenty, this advantage would turn into a disadvantage and give fast increases in body weight, hyperinsulinemia, and the development of metabolic syndrome problems early on (reviewed by Dunger et al ( 48 ). New information even suggests that the parental nutritional state can impose epigenetic metabolic changes in the fetus ( 49 ). Figure 2. In the fetus (insert) IGF-I increases with gestational age toward birth. Endocrine circulating IGF-I is strongly nutritionally dependent and correlated with birth size. Pituitary GH control of IGF-I production is not fully established during the first year of human life. The ability of serum IGF-I levels to increase during childhood is dependent on the shift from binary complexes of IGF-I with short half-life to a complete dominance of IGF-I bound in a stable ternary complex with the GH dependent proteins IGFBP-3 and ALS. Both these proteins increase, when pituitary GH control of the axis is established. During pubertal development, sex steroids change the set-point of negative IGF-I feedback and allow a peak of IGF-I in mid-puberty. Total IGF-I levels decline to low levels in senescence. Serum IGF-I reference values based on Juul ( 50 ). Postnatal Establishment of Pituitary GH Control of IGF-I Production In humans, full GH control of the IGFI gene, as well as the IGFBP3 and Acid Labile Subunit (ALS) genes, is developmentally regulated and established not until the first year of life. IGF-I and IGFBP-3 levels increase slowly from birth until a more rapid increase and peak during puberty, which is followed by a decline toward low levels
