Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


first year of life. IGF-I and IGFBP-3 levels increase slowly from birth until a more rapid increase and peak during puberty, which is followed by a decline toward low levels in senescence ( 50 , 51 ) ( Figure 2 ). The late establishment of pituitary GH control of the axis is strongly supported by animal data from GHR KO mice reviewed above, and by a new model of Laron syndrome (GHR defect) in pigs ( 52 ). In accordance, newborns with mutations in the GH Releasing Hormone Receptor (GHRHR) gene resulting in an isolated GH deficiency (GHD) phenotype was associated with normal birth weight in one cohort ( 53 ) and slightly subnormal birth weight in another ( 54 ). In a subgroup of 12 children with congenital isolated GHD, birth weight (1·1 ± 0·8 SD) and length (0·5 ± 1·3 SD) was not affected (Mehta A). GH1 mutations appear to be slightly more affected with mean birth weights of −1.0 ± 0.9 ( 54 ). Studies of common polymorphisms in GH1 demonstrate dose effects of 150 and 100 grams in term newborns of normal and low birth weight, respectively ( 55 ). Somewhat contradictory to the observations in animals, Savage et al ( 56 ) reported 27 prepubertal children with severe GH insensitivity syndrome (GHIS or Severe Primary IGF Deficiency (SPIGFD)) to have a median (range) birth weight SDS of -0.72 (1.75 - (-3.29)) and birth length SDS of -1.59 (0.63 - (-3.63)). SPIGFD in these patients were defined by phenotypic and biochemical characteristics and they were treated with recombinant human (rh)IGF-1 in one of the clinical trials leading to approval of this therapy, as described later. There was no complete genetic characterization of these patients and 7 patients had a normal serum GH Binding Protein (GHBP) suggesting that the extracellular part of GHR was not affected. In a monograph, Professor Zvi Laron ( 57 ), who gave his name to this syndrome, reported that birth weight is unaffected while birth length is slightly on the shorter side. In summary, human fetal growth is only marginally affected by GH. GH is detectable and the GHR is expressed in the human fetus and the metabolic effects of GH on lipolysis are essential to maintain normal levels of glucose in the newborn. Given this critical role of GH in adjusting metabolism to the fasting condition, it is plausible that the
