Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


lipolysis are essential to maintain normal levels of glucose in the newborn. Given this critical role of GH in adjusting metabolism to the fasting condition, it is plausible that the metabolic effects of GH are required for optimal linear growth of the human fetus and that this explains marginal effects on linear growth of the human fetus. However, strict GH control of IGF-I in the human fetus would predict severe growth retardation of the above-mentioned genetic defects comparable with the birth size observed in defects in the IGF-I gene. And that is not observed: Children with IGF1 defects suffer from far more severe fetal growth retardation with birth weight SDS around -4 and birth length SDS of -5 to -6 (reviewed in ( 58 ). In the study by Mehta et al (Mehta A), children with congenital isolated GH deficiency demonstrated growth retardation as already at 6 months of age (−2·6 ± 1·0 SD and −2·2 ± 1·3 SD in weight and length, respectively) prior to starting treatment. This suggests that the developmental GH control of IGF-I production is established early after birth. It is in accordance with data from Jensen RB and Juul A et al (Jensen RB) suggesting that low IGF-I is a marker of GH deficiency early in life. Children with combined pituitary hormone deficiencies were even more growth retarded at 6 months (Metha A). GHR Signaling Pathway to IGF1 Gene Transcription The important cell signaling steps associated with GH stimulated IGF1 gene activation, transcription and IGF-I production are detailed in the Endotext chapter ‘Normal Physiology of Growth Hormone in Adults´. Briefly, GH binding to preformed dimeric GHR - JAK2 complexes introduces structural changes in the receptor complex that separates JAK2 inhibitory and kinase active sites and enables trans-phosphorylation of the two JAK2 molecules (reviewed in ( 59 ). The GHR belongs to the class 1 cytokine receptors which uses STAT as one of its principal secondary messengers, and the subsequent phosphorylation of two STAT5b molecules results in a phospo-STAT5b homodimer which translocate to the cell nucleus, binds to STAT5b recognition sites on the IGF1 gene promoter, and initiates transcription ( Figure 3 ). Primary and Secondary IGF-I Deficiency IGF-I deficiency may be the result of low or inadequate production of GH. This condition is known as GH deficiency (GHD) but in analogy with other pituitary deficiencies leading to peripheral hormone deficiencies the term secondary IGF-I deficiency
