Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


or inadequate production of GH. This condition is known as GH deficiency (GHD) but in analogy with other pituitary deficiencies leading to peripheral hormone deficiencies the term secondary IGF-I deficiency was proposed (Rosenfeld et al). GHD is severe in GH1 or GHRH-R gene defects and in some children with congenital GHD as well as after treatment of brain tumors with radiation therapy. However, these conditions are rare and most children treated with rhGH has less severe GHD or an indication not associated with GHD. Disorders of GH in childhood is outlined in the Endotext chapter Disorders of Growth Hormone in Childhood by Murray and Clayton ( 132 ) Primary IGF-I deficiency or GH insensitivity is severe in homozygous genetic defects in genes including the GH receptor (Laron syndrome) gene, STAT-5b gene and IGF-I gene. Less severe growth retardation is reported in children with homozygous genetic defects in the ALS gene. Treatment with rhGH do not improve growth in these cases while rhIGF-1 is efficient in SPIGFD and approved by FDA and EMA. In many patients with severe primary IGF-I deficiency (SPIGFD) defined by low IGF-I (less than – 3 SDS or the 2.5 th percentile), severe short stature (Height SDS less than – 3), normal GH secretion and absence of acquired insensitivity to GH (discussed below) genetic defects may be absent. Still treatment with rhIGF-1 may be as efficient as in patients with confirmed homozygous GHR defects ( 131 ). Insulin Enhancement of GHR Signaling to IGF1 Gene Transcription Insulin signaling enhances the GH signaling pathway to enable IGF-I production in the fed state and promotes linear growth and other anabolic responses ( 60 , 61 , 62 ). Moreover, GH signaling to elicit IGF1 gene transcription is blocked in the absence of appropriate insulin signaling, a phenomenon also known as un-coupling, and resulting in growth arrest ( 60 , 61 , 63 , 64 ) ( Figure 3 ). This is partly a result of insulin’s effects on hepatic GHR expression, and partly a post-receptor signaling effect as unraveled by extensive animal studies (reviewed in ( 60 ). In obese individuals with hyperinsulinemia, hepatic GHR expression is enhanced as indicated by elevated GHBP levels reflecting proteolytic cleavage of highly expressed surface GHR and release of the extracellular part to the circulation ( 65 ). This allows obese individuals to maintain normal serum IGF-I levels despite markedly diminished GH secretion
