Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


in this review. While short-term fasting decreases serum IGF-I but does not affect GHBP ( 69 ), the triad of IGF-I deficiency, poor growth and pubertal delay/arrest in long term nutritional deficiency such as in anorexia nervosa is associated with low GHBP that is partly restored with weight gain ( 63 ). Also, circulating IGF-I deficiency due to hepatic under-insulinization in type 1 diabetes is associated with low GHBP levels. Normal circulating IGF-I and GHBP are fully restored only after experimental intra-peritoneal ( 70 ) or intraportal ( 71 ) insulin delivery. Functional/Acquired IGF-I Deficiency - Uncoupling of GHR Signaling to IGF1 Gene Transcription and Maintained GHR Metabolic Signaling Due to Insulin Deficiency Increased GHR signaling in obese children does not generally result in elevated IGF-I, due to negative feedback inhibition of GH. In contrast, impairment of GH signaling due to insulin deficiency cannot generally be compensated by GH hypersecretion. This is true in fasting children ( 63 ) and adults ( 62 ). The exact mechanisms by which insulin and GH signaling crosstalk on the post-receptor level is not yet understood ( Figure 3 ). More recent data suggesting that FGF21 plays a role in mediating these events needs further confirmation ( 72 ). Interestingly, GH signaling leading to activation of lipolysis in adipose tissue and increased hepatic glucose production via both glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis in the liver, is not affected by the absence of insulin crosstalk (reviewed in ( 72 )). This has important implications in securing substrate mobilization and gluconeogenesis during fasting and explains the cardinal hypoglycemic symptoms in GHD and GHIS newborns in the absence of intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR). GH signaling leading to lipolysis is thought to involve STAT5b. Most information comes from animal models and involves GH signaling in the liver, but in mouse adipose tissue GHR KO downregulates beta-3 adrenergic receptor expression and inhibits lipolysis ( 73 ). GH effects are lost if STAT5b signaling is blocked ( 74 ), gene transcript profiles of GHR KO and STAT5b KO animals overlap largely, and STAT5b controls key regulator enzymes involved in lipid metabolism ( 75 ). However, if STAT5b mediates both metabolic signaling and IGF-I production it still needs to be understood where the two pathways diverge, and why GH metabolic signaling is not blocked in the absence of insulin crosstalk. In humans, recent studies have identified new GH signaling responses involving GH downregulation
