Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


two pathways diverge, and why GH metabolic signaling is not blocked in the absence of insulin crosstalk. In humans, recent studies have identified new GH signaling responses involving GH downregulation of fat-specific protein (FSP27), a negative regulator of lipolysis. MEK/ERK activation and inhibition of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPARγ) are involved, and this offers an alternative signaling pathway from the GHR ( 76 ). Interactions Among Endocrine Axes The activity of the insulin-GH-IGF-axis is dependent on the other endocrine axes which have permissive actions on GH stimulated IGF-I expression and affect IGFBPs and proteases ( Figure 4 ). For example, thyroxine is needed to enhance GH effects on endocrine IGF-I expression and a normal GH-IGF-IGFBP-axis is needed for optimal thyroid hormone production ( 77 ). Sex steroids further enhance the function of the GH-IGF-axis, most likely by attenuating pituitary and hypothalamic sensitivity to IGF-I negative feedback ( 78 ). The pivotal role of sex steroids on the setpoint of the axis is reflected by the peak circulating levels of IGF-I and IGFBP-3 reached in mid-puberty ( 50 , 51 ). On the other hand, GH via its stimulation of local IGF-I is important for testicular production of testosterone and spermatogenesis ( 79 ), and the local IGF-IGFBP-axis is involved in selection and growth of the primary follicle in the ovary, estradiol production and ovulation ( 80 , 81 ). Finally, cortisol has impact on the actions of the GH-IGF-axis on growth by blocking IGF1R signaling leading to apoptosis ( 82 ) despite normal endocrine IGF-I levels ( 83 ). Figure 4. Hypothalamic GH releasing hormone and somatostatin establish the pulsatile pituitary GH secretion that is established as the main regulator of endocrine and paracrine/autocrine IGF-I production during the first year of life in humans. Insulin is permissive for this regulation by modulating GHR signaling, and normal beta-cell release of insulin is required for normal liver derived endocrine IGF-I levels measured in serum (blue insert) that in most cases is a good marker of the local production and actions of IGF-I. During fasting the GH regulation of IGF-I is uncoupled, resulting in decreased IGF-I (and catabolism) and elevated GH secretion and maintained lipolytic signals securing gluconeogenesis and preventing hypoglycemia. Apart from insulin, the endocrine thyroid axis is important for normal GH induced IGF-I production and during pubertal development sex steroids from the gonads enhance the performance of the GH-IGF-axis presumable by relaxation
