Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


the endocrine thyroid axis is important for normal GH induced IGF-I production and during pubertal development sex steroids from the gonads enhance the performance of the GH-IGF-axis presumable by relaxation of the negative IGF-I feedback on GH secretion allowing a higher set-point of the axis. Whether this is an estradiol effect is not fully elucidated but it is suggested by the fact that non-aromatizable androgens such as oxandrolone do not affect IGF-I levels. The actions of the adrenal axis are most likely local and involve actions on IGF1R signaling leading to apoptosis of stem cells in the growth plate and thus irreversible loss of height. Cortisol excess leaves endocrine IGF-I and GH levels largely unaffected. Discordance Between Endocrine and Paracrine/Autocrine IGF-I An important example of metabolic and mitogenic consequences of an unbalanced endocrine versus autocrine/paracrine insulin-GH-IGF-axis comes from observations in children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes ( Figure 5 ). They suffer specifically from insulin deficiency in the hepatic portal circulation as a result of the subcutaneous delivery of insulin (reviewed by Dunger ( 64 )). This attenuates their endocrine production of circulating IGF-I despite excessive GH secretion ( 84 ). Circulating IGF-I deficiency and GH hypersecretion induce insulin resistance which is further augmented by insufficient suppression of hepatic glucose output. To overcome this, higher subcutaneous insulin doses are needed to maintain glycemic control, and this results in aggravated systemic hyperinsulinemia. The importance of local tissue hyperinsulinemia and GH hypersecretion in generating high paracrine/autocrine IGF-I production and promoting mitogenic vascular events leading to diabetic long-term complications should not be underestimated. Based on this insight, a promising new drug targeting the alphaVbeta3 integrin affecting IGF-I signaling in smooth muscle cells has been found to inhibit the development of atherosclerotic lesions in diabetic pigs ( 85 ). Another consequence of a compensatory increased in local IGF-I activity is the finding of normal childhood and pubertal linear growth despite endocrine IGF-I deficiency in type 1 diabetes ( 86 ). It is interesting that the endocrine and paracrine/autocrine changes in the insulin-GH-IGF-axis observed in children with type 1 diabetes closely resembles those observed in liver IGF-I KO mice which eventually leads to diabetes in the KO mice. Given that portal delivery of insulin, which has the potential to completely restore IGF-I levels in type 1 diabetes ( 70 , 71 , 87 ), remains an experimental treatment, rhIGF-1 treatment to restore circulating IGF-I
