Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


which has the potential to completely restore IGF-I levels in type 1 diabetes ( 70 , 71 , 87 ), remains an experimental treatment, rhIGF-1 treatment to restore circulating IGF-I and suppress GH and decrease insulin needs appears to be the most feasible approach to take ( 88 ). In a 6-month clinical trial of a single daily injection of rhIGF-1 improved glycemic control in adolescents with type 1 diabetes were found ( 89 ). Long-term studies on diabetic vascular complications have yet to be performed. If paracrine/autocrine IGF-I production is lost in addition to liver-derived IGF-I, the metabolic consequences become obvious. This situation was first reported in a boy with a deletion of exon 4 of the IGF-I gene ( 90 ) resulting in severe fetal and post-natal growth arrest, poor brain development and extreme insulin resistance with compensatory hyperinsulinemia and acanthosis nigricans. A short trial of treatment with rhIGF-1 resulted in normalization of circulating IGF-I, suppression of GH hypersecretion and a markedly decreased insulin response to a meal tolerance test ( 91 ). In this example and in type 1 diabetes, it has been discussed whether the normalization of glucose metabolism following rhIGF-I therapy is most importantly associated with insulin-like effects of IGF-I on glucose uptake in muscle or suppression of GH hypersecretion? Although most studies support the importance of GH suppression, prolonged actions of IGF-I similar to that of long-acting insulin analogs in type 1 diabetic patients are important. IGF-I is equipotent with insulin in stimulating glucose uptake in human muscle but has less effects in fat and liver ( 92 ). Reports that newborns with a complete lack of insulin effects due to inactivating defects in the INSR gene can now survive for extended time into adolescence when treated with recombinant IGF-I, that stimulate glucose uptake via the IGF1R sharing common signaling pathways with the INSR, support an important direct role of IGF-1 signaling on metabolism ( 93 ). Figure 5. Changes in liver derived endocrine IGF-I measured in the circulation and paracrine/autocrine IGF-I are in most cases concordant. In the absence of practical and validated methods to measure IGF-I at the tissue site of action, paracrine/autocrine IGF-I activity is assessed by determining known physiological actions of IGF-I such as growth or glucose metabolism. Type 1 diabetes is a condition with discordant changes in endocrine vs. paracrine/autocrine changes in IGF-I that in many ways resembles those
