Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


of IGF-I such as growth or glucose metabolism. Type 1 diabetes is a condition with discordant changes in endocrine vs. paracrine/autocrine changes in IGF-I that in many ways resembles those reported in a mouse model of conditional knock-out of IGF-1 expression in the liver. In type 1 diabetes, insulin deficiency in the liver, caused by a systemic rather than a portal insulin replacement therapy, results in a functional GHR signaling defect to IGF-I transcription (uncoupling). Low endocrine IGF-I production decreases circulating IGF-I and results in decreased negative pituitary feedback and GH hypersecretion. The lack of direct IGF-I effects on glucose uptake in muscle and the diabetogenic effects of GH (including maintained signaling to lipolysis) decreases insulin actions on glucose metabolism (known as insulin resistance). The portal insulin deficiency also fails to suppress hepatic glucose production. In other to maintain glycemic control, the increased insulin requirement can only be met by more subcutaneous insulin leading to systemic hyperinsulinemia. There is no direct information about local paracrine/autocrine IGF-I activity, but there are several indications that tissue hyperinsulinemia and GH hypersecretion results in a compensatory increase of tissue IGF-I activity. Firstly, linear growth is not impaired in children and adolescents with Type 1 Diabetes despite of their low endocrine IGF-I (comparable to levels in short stature children), indicating a compensatory upregulation of local IGF-I activity (IGF-I being the most important stimulator of longitudinal growth). Secondly, it is plausible that increased local IGF-I activity contributes to diabetes complications known to be tightly associated with increased rather than decreased IGF-I activity. While type 1 diabetes is not generally associated with increased risk of cancer, the increase in local production of IGF-I in obesity and type 2 diabetes may contribute. Liver Disease and Endocrine Versus Paracrine/Autocrine IGF-1 Production In children with severe liver disease, there may be similar discrepancies between circulating endocrine levels of IGF-I and IGF-I activity in peripheral levels contributed by paracrine/autocrine secretion of IGF-I ( 94 ). However, less is known about peripheral IGF-I activity and it is possible that there are more secondary metabolic and nutritional issues that could lower local IGF-I production and impact on linear growth. Particularly in liver cirrhosis associated with thalassemia major, which concomitantly can impair pituitary GH secretion, there is no secondary upregulation of local IGF-I and linear growth failure is common ( 95 ). Recently, increased IGF-I expression was reported in obese children with non-alcoholic fatty
