Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


secretion, there is no secondary upregulation of local IGF-I and linear growth failure is common ( 95 ). Recently, increased IGF-I expression was reported in obese children with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and it was combined with upregulation of IGF1R ( 96 ), not expressed in the normal liver but involved in liver repair, such as after liver resection in a mouse model ( 97 ). GH and Cytokine Crosstalk STAT5b phosphorylation is also mediated by activation of other members of the cytokine receptor family and has an impact on immunological function: this is evident from the finding of immune deficient symptoms in children with STAT5b genetic defects ( 98 ) but these are not found in GHD and GHIS children. Negative Control of GHR Signaling Control of the GH signaling cascade is also under inhibitory control, principally by two mechanisms. Firstly, tyrosine phosphatases including PTP dephosphorylate GHR associated molecules. In Noonan’s syndrome genetic defects in the PTPN11 gene may affect this pathway and has been implicated in poor growth and poor response to GH therapy, although reports are conflicting ( 99 , 100 ). In addition, the SOCS gene is activated by GH signaling and works as a short intracellular negative feedback loop which rapidly down-regulate GHR activity by internalization and receptor ubiquitinoylation resulting in lysosomal and proteasomal degradation ( 101 ). Other Nutritional Signals to the GH-IGF-Axis Nutritional supplementation increasing dietary protein intake from cow’s milk increases endocrine IGF-I, while an equal intake of animal protein from meat does not ( 102 ). It is possible that the amino-acid composition that differs depending on the dietary source may contribute, and there are other constituents in skimmed milk not present in meat. More likely, however, it is explained by a higher carbohydrate intake in the milk group (while fat content was higher with meat supplementation) and the finding that fasting insulin levels doubled ( 103 ), in accordance with the essential regulatory role of insulin on GHR signaling discussed above. There is, however, direct evidence for a regulatory role of amino-acids on IGF-I production that is independent of insulin. Branched chained amino-acids (BCAA) are known to stimulate cell growth by the activation of mTORC2, a protein complex that controls protein synthesis in cells by sensing nutrient and energy availability and is also one of the main signaling pathways of IGF-I and insulin ( Figure 3 ). The role
