Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


controls protein synthesis in cells by sensing nutrient and energy availability and is also one of the main signaling pathways of IGF-I and insulin ( Figure 3 ). The role of BCAA has been studied in rats given a restricted diet containing high levels of BCAA, compared to a group given low levels of BCAA ( 104 ). The availability of nutrients in the circulation might also have a direct effect on the production of IGF-I. Human breast adipocytes cultured in high glucose levels have been found to produce more IGF-I compared to adipocytes cultured in low glucose levels ( 105 ). IGF-II IGF-II is a paracrine/autocrine hormone which is as essential for fetal growth as IGF-I ( 21 ). IGF-II may also contribute considerable to postnatal growth although the absence of endocrine effects makes it difficult to study in humans. Less is known about the metabolic actions of IGF-II. Growth promoting actions of IGF-II is via the IGF1R and IGF1R-INSR hybrid receptors which has preference for IGF-II actions if the A isoform of the INSR receptor – expressed in the fetus and in malignantly transformed cells - pairs with the IGF1R in the hybrid ( 106 ). The human IGF2 gene is an imprinted gene ( 107 ) exclusively expressed from the paternal allele in certain tissues (reviewed by Rossignol ( 108 ). The imprinted promoter region is found in a complex configuration with the H19 gene on chromosome 11 and shares two important imprinting regions with this gene. Methylation of the imprinting region ICR1 results in expression of the paternal IGF2 allele, while H19 gene expression is suppressed. Correct imprinting should lead to expression of the paternal allele only and sufficient expression of IGF-II for normal growth. Loss of methylation of the ICR1 on the paternal allele results in the phenotype of Silver Russell syndrome (SRS) which may also arise from other genetic aberrations that have not yet been linked to the IGF-II production or signaling cascade including maternal uniparental dyssomnia of chromosome 7. SRS is characterized by proportional IUGR with severe SGA at birth, relative sparing of the brain with close to normal head circumference at birth, severe feeding difficulties in infancy and childhood (which in contrast to Prader-Willi syndrome does not rebound into feeding obsession later in life), postnatal growth retardation and body asymmetry. As indicated by the SRS phenotype, IGF2 gene transcription of some organs
