Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


to Prader-Willi syndrome does not rebound into feeding obsession later in life), postnatal growth retardation and body asymmetry. As indicated by the SRS phenotype, IGF2 gene transcription of some organs are not controlled by imprinting. The relative normal development of the brain and the relative macrocephaly of SRS is explained by the lack of imprinting control of IGF-II expression in the brain. Children with genetic mutations in the expressed paternal allele of the IGF2 gene, were reported to have an SRS phenotype. They had somewhat more pronounced psychomotor developmental problems compared with the SRS phenotype, which has increased risk of autism spectrum defects including attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. In SRS, there is a normal postnatal expression of the IGF2 gene in the liver leading to normal levels of circulating IGF-II. Interestingly, the normal endocrine levels of IGF-II do not overcome the postnatal growth restriction. A similar lack of endocrine IGF-II effects on growth and metabolism was reported in the IGF-I deficient child mentioned previously with a loss of exon 4 of the IGF1 gene. He had compensatory increased GH, IGFBP-3, ALS as a result of lack of negative IGF-I feedback and secondary to the increased IGF binding capacity, increased IGF-II (see also the chapter on IGF-binding proteins below). Another observation in favor of this view is the lack of a correlation between newborn cord levels of IGF-II and birth size ( 41 ). This contrasts with a strong positive correlation between cord blood IGF-I concentrations and birth size. The role of IGF-II should be viewed in the light of Efstradiadis series of knock-out experiments in mice ( 21 ) where the Igf2 ko mice had the same degree of fetal growth retardation as the igf1 ko which demonstrates that IGF-II is a paracrine/autocrine and not an endocrine hormone. It is possible that circulating IGF-II after release from the ternary complex is cleared from the circulation by binding to the IGF2R – identical to the mannose-6-phosphate receptor – which is associated with lysosomes and results in degradation of IGF-II in endothelial cells ( 23 ). In the elegant mouse KO experiments by Efstradiadis et al ( 21 ), KO of the IGF2R resulted in fetal overgrowth. However, the largely elevated IGF-II serum levels in that model are more likely a secondary finding, while the lack of clearance of paracrine/autocrine IGF-II is the explanation for the excessive growth. IGF Binding Proteins Six
