Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


serum levels in that model are more likely a secondary finding, while the lack of clearance of paracrine/autocrine IGF-II is the explanation for the excessive growth. IGF Binding Proteins Six IGFBPs bind IGF-I and IGF-II inside and outside the circulation and has impact on IGF bioactivity (reviewed by Clemmons ( 109 ). The IGFBP-related proteins share some structural similarities with the six IGFBPs but have no relevant impact on IGF bioactivity. GF-I passes the endothelium intact primarily via IGF1R mediated transcytosis and this process is essential for endocrine actions of liver derived IGF-I ( 110 ). Limited experimental evidence from animal and tissue cultures suggest that IGF-I complexed with IGFBP-1 and -2 may leave the circulation, although the extent and importance is unclear (Bar 1990). After endothelial passage IGF-I redistributes to soluble IGFBPs in the extravascular fluids or IGFBPs bound on extracellular matrix or cell surfaces ( 111 ). The concentration of unbound IGF-I in the circulation is likely to be proportional to unbound IGF-I concentrations in the tissues, but they are not equal and may have different relationship in different target tissues with differentially-expressed IGFBPs. As pointed out earlier in this review, transgenic animal studies disrupting one or more IGFBPs have not suggested that a marked growth phenotype should be expected in children and no IGFBP mutations causing growth retardation in children had been reported to the best of my knowledge. Interestingly, as predicted by the Igfbp4-ko and the pappa-ko animal models described previously, a human PAPP-A2 gene defect with growth phenotype was recently reported as detailed below ( 43 ). Free IGF-I Assays Assays claiming to measure free circulating IGF-I have been developed, but it is unclear to what extent different techniques are influenced by redistribution of IGF-I among IGFBPs associated with the assay procedure ( 112 ). Anyway, the fact that IGF-I redistribute among extravascular IGFBPs after passing the endothelium is likely to affect the local tissue bioavailability even more. Moreover, the fact that most data in the literature originate from one assay technique established in one single laboratory has resulted in a lack of confirmatory reports. In a few cases, measurements with different free IGF-I assays have been reported from the same study/experiment with large differences in results ( 113 ). The bottom line is that measurements of free IGF-I have not been demonstrated to better predict different physiological or pathophysiological conditions in humans and do
