Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


in results ( 113 ). The bottom line is that measurements of free IGF-I have not been demonstrated to better predict different physiological or pathophysiological conditions in humans and do therefore not provide any clinically important contributions ( 114 , 112 ). Techniques to assess IGF-I at the tissue site of action pose practical and methodological challenges. Attempts to establish and validate a method to determine local tissue levels by microdialysis have been reported in adolescents with type 1 diabetes, where endocrine levels are a poor marker of local IGF-I activity ( 115 ). Ternary Complex Formation The developmental establishment of GH control over the IGF1 , IGFBP3 and IGFALS genes in early childhood initiates the dominance of the ternary complex formed by IGF-I or IGF-II and IGFBP-3 (or IGFBP-5) and ALS as the quantitatively most important circulating form of IGF-I and IGF-II (reviewed by Baxter ( 116 ). In the human fetus and newborn, serum IGFBP-3 and ALS concentrations are low and ternary complex formation is absent ( 117 ). Although IGF2 gene expression is not under GH control, the circulating levels of IGF-II are largely influenced by GH status since IGF-II (as well as IGF-I and IGFBP-3) is rapidly cleared from the circulation if not bound in the ternary complex. This can be observed in children with SPIGFD, who are deficient in IGF-I as well as IGFBP-3 and ALS, and in whom sc injected rhIGF-I displays a very fast serum clearance rate ( 118 ). As mentioned, formation of the ternary complex also governs the circulating levels of IGFBP-3 which under physiological conditions is present in a 1:1 molar relationship with IGF-I plus IGF-II. ALS is a large glucoprotein that under physiological conditions are present in a two-fold molar excess ( 16 ). Immunometric IGFBP-3 assays have been claimed to be more predictive of GH status in very young children; however, the support for that is weak. It is rather a misconception related to problems of commercial IGF-I assays at the lower end of IGF-I detection. Moreover, IGFBP-3 has been claimed to provide information about IGF-I bioavailability from calculating the molar ratio of total IGF-I to IGFBP-3. Given that both IGF-I and IGFBP-3 are rapidly cleared from the circulation if unbound, using the IGF-I/IGFBP-3 ratio and disregarding IGF-II concentrations (that are 2-3-fold those of IGF-I on a molar basis) does not make any sense. During puberty, for example,
