Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


circulation if unbound, using the IGF-I/IGFBP-3 ratio and disregarding IGF-II concentrations (that are 2-3-fold those of IGF-I on a molar basis) does not make any sense. During puberty, for example, IGF-I bioactivity is increased ( 114 ). This is dependent on the 3-4-fold increase in total IGF-I ( 50 ), which consequently results in an increase in unbound IGF-I, even if the increase is matched with the same absolute molar increase in IGFBP-3 (and complexed with ALS in a ternary complex). A common view is that increased IGF-I bioactivity depends on a higher IGF-I/IGFBP-3 molar ratio during puberty. However, the increase in molar ratio is entirely explained by the fact that IGF-I and IGFBP-3 increase with the same number of moles per liter, but with a larger relative increase in IGF-I than IGFBP-3 and with IGF-II molar concentrations being unchanged ( 112 ). IGFBP Proteolysis and Physiological Consequences The fact that proteolytic cleavage of IGFBP-3 is common, and may result in falsely elevated IGFBP-3 immunoactivity, is the most likely reason for observing a low IGF-I/ IGFBP-3 ratio. Under certain physiological conditions first described in pregnancy ( 119 , 120 ), specific proteases cleave IGFBP-3 into several proteolytic fragments of which each may retain immunoactivity and thus give rise to signals in an immunometric assay ( 121 ). This will lead to overestimations of the IGFBP-3 immunoreactivity in pregnancy, which is already truly increased due to increased placental GH tonus. It may also lead to the erroneous conclusion that IGF-I bioactivity is decreased. On the contrary, IGF-I bioactivity is increased in the maternal circulation resulting from increased total serum IGF-I and decreased binding affinity of fragmented IGFBP-3 ( 122 ). There is strong experimental evidence that IGFBP proteolysis results in lower IGF binding affinity. The finding that partial IGFBP-3 proteolysis, such as in pregnancy, does not disrupt the ternary complex, has questioned its significance. However, evidence for increased IGF-I bioactivity in a ternary complex with fragmented IGFBP-3 exists ( 123 ). IGFBP-3 proteolysis has also been described in insulin resistant states such as fasting, obesity and type 1 and 2 diabetes ( 62 , 124 , 125 ). While several known proteolytic enzymes such as those involved in blood clotting ( 126 ) and cancer metastasis ( 127 , 128 ) have been identified as IGFBP-3 proteases, the identity of the pregnancy protease is still not resolved. Recently, a human gene
