Pediatric Implications of Normal Insulin-GH-IGF Axis Physiology
KEYWORDS: growth, igf-i, pubmed, insulin, insulin-like, insulin-like growth, signaling, igfbp-, factor, human, igf-ii, binding, gene, growth factor, levels


126 ) and cancer metastasis ( 127 , 128 ) have been identified as IGFBP-3 proteases, the identity of the pregnancy protease is still not resolved. Recently, a human gene mutation of PAPP-A2, a circulating and tissue protease with IGFBP-5 (and to some extent IGFBP-3) as its primary substrate (Gaudamauskes et al), was demonstrated to have a marked growth phenotype involving fetal and post-natal growth retardation in children in a consanguineous family ( 43 ). Largely elevated levels of circulating IGF-I but as a result of absence of proteolysis of IGFBP-5 and IGFBP-3, necessary for disruption of ternary complex formation, IGF-I bioactivity in serum is low and presumably tissue bioactivity of IGF-I (and IGF-II) is low. Functionally, this is a state of severe primary IGF-I deficiency (despite of elevated total serum IGF-I) and pharmacokinetic studies suggested that sc. Injections of rhIGF-1 resulted in a fraction of unbound IGF-I in serum despite the impaired proteolysis of IGFBP-5 and IGFBP-3 ( 133 ). Attempts to improve linear growth by rhIGF-I treatment has been reported to result in some improvements in a few affected children but not all ( 134 , 135) It is beyond the scope of this chapter to review the overwhelming evidence from cell biology experiments demonstrating the important role of IGFBPs in modulating IGF bioactivity and the role of IGFBP proteases and their actions at the cellular level. Furthermore, IGFBPs other than IGFBP-3 may play a role in the access of IGF-I to various tissues ( 129 ). SUMMARY In the present review the pivotal role of nutrition and insulin in determining the regulation and actions of the GH-IGF-axis is reviewed. For the pediatrician, caring for patients in a phase of rapid growth and development, it is important to refer to normality and understand the requirements for a normal insulin-GH-IGF-axis in order to succeed in this task. In the complex work-up, treatment and management of growth disorders a thorough understanding of the normal physiology of the axis is essential in taking the right actions ( 130 , 131 ). From the normal physiology of this axis, it is possible to understand the consequences of various genetic defects and disorders that affect its regulation and function. The most severe conditions associated with defects in the axis may cause a loss of adult height of approximately 1/3 and may cause severe developmental and neurological deficits and compromise pubertal maturation and fertility.
