Organ Culture of Mucosal Biopsies
KEYWORDS: cells, culture, vitro, biopsies, cell, tissue, medium, normal, organ, epithelial, biopsy, small, fig, cultured, cytoplasm


Organ Culture of Mucosal Biopsies of Human Small Intestine THOMAS H. BROWNING and JERRY S. TmRm Boston, Massachusetts 02118 A B STRACT In vitro experiments of small intestinal mal morphology, epithelial cell proliferation proceeds, mucosal function and metabolism utilizing excised tis- and fat absorption occurs. sue have been limited to a few hours by rapid epithelial cell necrosis which occurs with current incubation INTRODUCTION methods. We describe a method for culturing human mucosal biopsies for up to 24 hr employing organ cul- Preservation of small intestinal tissue in vitro has been ture methodology and demonstrate its potential applica- a serious problem in the past clearly limiting the dura- tion to studies of mucosal function. Peroral biopsies tion of in vitro experiments of mucosal function and me- were placed in organ culture plates and maintained with tabolism. Many short-term experiments (2 hr or less) modified Trowell's medium in 95% 0-5% C02 at 370C have been satisfactorily conducted by maintaining open for 6-24 hr. To study cell proliferation, 2 uc of thymi- intestinal segments or everted rings and sacs of in- dine-'H was added per ml of medium. To study fat ab- testinal tissue in suitable oxygenated buffer solutions sorption, biopsies were exposed to micellar solutions of (1, 2). Careful morphological studies have shown that linolenic acid, monoolein, and taurodeoxycholate in epithelial cell integrity is maintained in these short-term Krebs-Ringer buffer for 15 min after culture in experiments (3-5). However, marked epithelial cell vitro for 24 hr. After 24 hr of culture, villi were shorter necrosis and disintegration occurs if incubation of in- and wider. Cells in the lamina were reduced in number. testinal tissue is prolonged much beyond 2 or 3 hr.' Light and electron microscopic morphology of epithelial More recently, cell suspensions of epithelial cells have cells compared favorably to those of control biopsies ex- been isolated from rat small intestine (6, 7), but there is cept in occasional areas of partial necrosis. Some ab- question whether these cell suspensions remain viable for sorptive cells were more cuboidal and contained more much more than an hour or 2 after isolation. Others lysosomes; many appeared entirely normal. Most crypt have attempted, with some success, to apply recent im- cells appeared normal; some contained increased glyco- provements in vascular perfusion techniques coupled gen and lysosomes. Mitoses were present, and labeled with storage in hyperbaric oxygen to the preservation cells were abundant in
