Organ Culture of Mucosal Biopsies
KEYWORDS: cells, culture, vitro, biopsies, cell, tissue, medium, normal, organ, epithelial, biopsy, small, fig, cultured, cytoplasm


some contained increased glyco- provements in vascular perfusion techniques coupled gen and lysosomes. Mitoses were present, and labeled with storage in hyperbaric oxygen to the preservation cells were abundant in crypts of biopsies after 6 hr of invitrooflarge segmentsofcaninesmall intestine (8, 9), incubation with thymidine-3H-containing medium. By but application of perfusion methods to the study of hu- 24 hr, labeled cells migrated to the base of the villi. man tissue would be limited by the need for large seg- When biopsies cultured in vitro were subsequently ments of fresh tissue. exposed to micellar lipid, numerous lipid droplets were In this report, we describe a method for maintaining identified in the cytoplasm of absorptive cells. Thus, human peroral mucosal biopsies in vitro for a 24 hr pe- after 24 hr in vitro under these culture conditions, many riod by applying to the biopsies modifications of culture human small intestinal epithelial cells maintain near nor- techniques utilized previously for the maintainance in Received for publication 14 January 1969 and in revised 'Trier, J. S., and T. H. Browning. Unpublished observa- form 26 February1969. tions. The Journal of Clinical Investigation Volume 48 1969 1423 vitro of fragments of other mature organs (10). We also describe initial studies of cell proliferation and fat ab- sorption by the cultured biopsies which suggest that these parameters of organ function procede in the in vitro environmient. METHODS Peroral biopsies were obtained from young adult male volunteers by use of a multipurpose biopsy tube (11) equipped with a modified capsule with four ports which permitted the excision of four biopsy samples with a single intubation. Biopsies were obtained after a 12-hr fast from the duodenojejunal junction by fluoroscopic placement of the biopsy capsule at the ligament of Treitz. Written, informed consent for the biopsy procedure was obtained from all subjects. Biopsies were placed in the organ culture system within 1-5 min after their excision. Sterile, plastic culture dishes (Falcon Plastics, Los Angeles, Calif.) 5.5 cm in diameter were used. These had a central 2 cm well in which the medium was placed and which supported a triangular piece of stainless steel mesh. The central well was surrounded by an outer well which contained a cotton pad which was saturated wxith 0.9% NaCl solution. Biopsies were oriented with villi up and cut surface down on the mesh, and ap- FIGURE 2 Light micrograph of a radioautograph of a crypt
