Organ Culture of Mucosal Biopsies
KEYWORDS: cells, culture, vitro, biopsies, cell, tissue, medium, normal, organ, epithelial, biopsy, small, fig, cultured, cytoplasm


saturated wxith 0.9% NaCl solution. Biopsies were oriented with villi up and cut surface down on the mesh, and ap- FIGURE 2 Light micrograph of a radioautograph of a crypt from a normal biopsy cultured in vitro for 12 hr in media to which thymidine-3H has been added. The nuclei of many of the undifferentiated crypt cells are labeled (arrows). Paneth cells (P) are not labeled. Toluidine blue stain, X 1200. proximately 1 ml of medium was added to the central well until a thin layer weas drawn over the villous surface of the biopsy by capillary action. The medium employed in these studies consisted of 9 parts of Trowell T-8 medium (12) (GIBCO, Inc., Grand Island, N. Y.) and 1 part of fetal calf serum (Hyland Laboratories, Los Angeles, Calif.). In addi- tion, 10,000 U of crystalline penicillin G and 0.01 g of streptomycin sulfate were added to each 100 ml of medium. Thedishes were covered, placed on a steel rack which was set in a McIntosh jar (Scientific Products, Inc., Los Angeles, Calif.), maintained at 370C in a constant temperature oven. The jar was gassed with 95% 02 and 5% C02 for 20 min and was then sealed. The medium was renewed and the jar regassed for 20 min after 6 and 12 hr had elapsed. To study cell proliferation in vitro, 2 /Ac of thymidine-3H (New England Nuclear Corp., Boston, Mass., SA 6.7 c/mmole) was added to each ml of medium. Biopsies which were to be fixed for study after 6 and 12 hr of in vitro FIGURE 1. Light micrograph of a duodenojejunal biopsy culture were exposed to thymidine-3H for the duration of maintained in vitro in organ culture for 24 hr. The villi are the culture period. Biopsies cultured in vitro for 24 hr were somewhat shortened, and the cellularity of the lamina maintained in thymidine-3H-containing medium for the 1st propria (L) is decreased. Heterogeneous material (arrows) 12 hr and in medium without thymidine-3H for the final covers some of the well-preserved epithelium. Toluidine blue 12hr. stain, X 150. To test the ability of the absorptive cells of the cultured 1424 T. H. Browning and J. S. Trier FIGURE 3 Electron micrograph of villous absorptive cells from a normal biopsy cultured in vitro for 24 hr. A. Cytoplasmic organelles including mitochondria (M), endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and Golgi material (G) are well preserved. N, nucleus, X
