Organ Culture of Mucosal Biopsies
KEYWORDS: cells, culture, vitro, biopsies, cell, tissue, medium, normal, organ, epithelial, biopsy, small, fig, cultured, cytoplasm


cells from a normal biopsy cultured in vitro for 24 hr. A. Cytoplasmic organelles including mitochondria (M), endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and Golgi material (G) are well preserved. N, nucleus, X 14,000. B. The microvilli as well as their fibrillar glycoprotein surface coat (C) are well preserved. X 30,000. biopsies to absorb micellar fat, a micellar solution was pre- a final concentration of 0.6 Amole of linolenic acid, 0.3 pared as described by Strauss (4). Briefly, for each 5 ml umole of monoolein, and 2.4 jmoles of sodium taurodeoxy- of micellar solution, 3.0 gmoles of linolenic acid (Applied cholate per ml of solution. After biopsies were cultured JAmoles ofmonoolein (Geo. A. Hormel & Co., Austin, Minn.) above, they were transferred to 25-ml Erlenmeyer flasks were dissolved in reagent-grade diethyl ether in the same which contained 5 ml of micellar solution in KRP and were container. The ether was removed by evaporation under incubated for 15 min at 370C in an environment of 95% nitrogen in a vacuum chamber. To this 0.3 ml of 0.04 M 02 and 5%o CO2 before fixation. taurodeoxycholate (Calbiochem, Los Angeles, Calif.) was All cultured biopsy specimens were placed in chilled then added, and the mixture was shaken gently for 2 min. chrome-osmium fixative (13) upon completion of the culture Finally, 4.7 ml of Krebs-Ringer phosphate solution without or incubation period. After 4 min they were removed and calcium or magnesium ions (KRP) was added resulting in carefully cut into slices approximately 1 mm in width and Organ Culture of Small Intestine 1425 FIGURE 4 Electron micrograph of a villous absorptive cell nearer the villous tip from the same biopsy as Fig. 3. This cell is more cuboidal than normal, and relatively wide intercellular spaces (X) are seen between it and the adjacent cells. However, the cytoplasmic organelles themselves appear normal as does the microvillous border (1V) and the basement membrane (arrows). x 7000. returned to the fixative for 1 hr. Tissue was then placed i:n 4 min, fixed for 5 mil, washed, dried, and then stained 10% neutral buffered formalin for hr, dehydrated in with toluidine blue. increasing concentrations of ethyl alcohol, and embedded in Suitable areas for electron microscopic study were selected epoxy resin (14). The embedded tissue slices were then cut from the toluidine blue-stained 1A sections, and tissue blocks out of the epoxy block, carefully oriented, and mounted with were appropriately trimmed for
