Organ Culture of Mucosal Biopsies
KEYWORDS: cells, culture, vitro, biopsies, cell, tissue, medium, normal, organ, epithelial, biopsy, small, fig, cultured, cytoplasm


The embedded tissue slices were then cut from the toluidine blue-stained 1A sections, and tissue blocks out of the epoxy block, carefully oriented, and mounted with were appropriately trimmed for thin sectioning. Thin sec- epoxy cement on short aluminum rods machined to fit the tions were cut with a diamond knife on an LKB microtome, microtome chuck. Serial sections of the entire width of the mounted on uncoated, copper mesh grids, stained with biopsy slice were then cut 1 thick with glass knives with uranyl acetate (18) and lead citrate (19), and examined A a Sorvall MT-2 microtome (Ivan Sorvall, Inc., Norwalk, with a Philips EM-300 electron microscope. Conn.). Sections not used for radioautography were then stained with toluidine blue (15). For radioautographic studies, the slides with unstained RESULTS 1,~ sections were dipped in Ilford L-4 emulsion (Ilford, Ltd., Essex, England), diluted 1: 1 with distilled H20 and, after Villous architecture was reasonably well maintained in appropriate drying, were stored in light-proof boxes in the biopsies subjected to in vitro organ culture. Fig. 1 is a presence of anhydrous calcium sulfate as previously de- relatively low magnification, light micrograph of a scribed (16, 17). Slides were incubated in the refrigerator for 6-8wkand then developedwith Kodak D-19 developer for representative area of normal human intestinal mucosa 1426 T. H. Browning and J. S. Trier w\lhich was maintained in culture for 24 hr. The villi peared indistinguishable from those seen in freshly fixed were somewhat shorter and wider than those of biopsies biopsies (20). Their cytoplasm was compact, and the fixed immediately after excision, and there were fewer cytoplasmic organelles, including mitochondria, elements cells in the lamina propria, but those present appeared of endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi material and lysosomes normal. Variable amounts of heterogeneous material, were normal in appearance and distribution. In many presumably consisting of mucus and cellular debris, were areas, the relationship of adjacent cells to one another noted on the surface epithelium of some villi (Fig. 1) was undisturbed (Fig. 3A). Both the microvillous sur- and in the lumina of some crypts. Except in occasional face and its delicate glycoprotein surface coat were areas of partial necrosis, the epithelium was intact, and maintained (Fig. 3 B). In other areas, particularly near its cellular elements appeared normal by light microscopy the tip of the villi, absorptive cells were shorter than (Figs. 1 and 2). Both the columnar structure of the
