Organ Culture of Mucosal Biopsies
KEYWORDS: cells, culture, vitro, biopsies, cell, tissue, medium, normal, organ, epithelial, biopsy, small, fig, cultured, cytoplasm


particularly near its cellular elements appeared normal by light microscopy the tip of the villi, absorptive cells were shorter than (Figs. 1 and 2). Both the columnar structure of the normal (Fig. 4), and the number of lysosomes in the epithelial cells and their striated border were maintained. cytoplasm was moderately increased. However, both Many mitoses were present in the crypts, even after 24 the apical surface and the basal lamina of all absorptive hr of culture. Areas of necorsis were less common in cells examined from nonnecrotic areas were structurely biopsies fixed after 12 hr of culture and rare in biopsies intact (Fig. 4). fixed after 6 hr of culture. Goblet cells, both on the villi and in the crypts, were Electron microscopy confirmed the impression gained filled with large mucous granules and appeared normal with the light microscope that near normal epithelial morphologically when viewed with the electron micro- cell morphology was maintained in most areas during scope (Fig. 5). Many goblet cells were actively se- in vitro culture for 24 hr. Tn many areas, the villous ab- creting mucus. sorptive cells, such as the one shown in Fig. 3A, ap- Most undifferentiated cells were normal even after culture for 24 hr, except that the number of secretory granules in the apical cytoplasm appeared decreased (Fig. 6). In a few, lysosomes were more numerous and larger in size, and the amount of glycogen in the cvto- llasm was increased over that normally found (Fig. 7). Paneth cells in the base of the crypts were normal af- ter 24 hr of culture and were characterized by large homogeneous membrane-bounded secretory granules in the apical cytoplasm, an extensive supranuclear accumu- lation of Golgi material, and abundant cytoplasmic gran- ular endoplasmic reticulum (Fig. 8). Like the Paneth cells, the differentiated enterochromaffin cells remained normal and contained characteristic cytoplasmic gran- ules of varying densities. A few enterochromaffin cells contained unusually large accumulations of glycogen (Fig. 9). The fine structure of most cellular elements in the lamina propria, including plasma cells, lymphocytes, eosinophiles, fibroblasts, blood and lymph vessels, un- myelinated nerve fibers, and smooth muscle cells also appeared normal in biopsies cultured in vitro for 24 hr. When thymidine-3H was added to the culture medium, the nuclei of many undifferentiated crypt cells were la- beled after 6 hr of incubation in vitro. After 12 hr of incubation in thymidine-3H-containing medium, labeling was more
