Organ Culture of Mucosal Biopsies
KEYWORDS: cells, culture, vitro, biopsies, cell, tissue, medium, normal, organ, epithelial, biopsy, small, fig, cultured, cytoplasm


droplets in their cytoplasm (Fig. 10A). were gassed with 95% 02 and 5% C02. By use of this These were distributed throughout the cytoplasm but method, Deschner, Lewis, and Lipkin (21) reported were most abundant in the supranuclear region, and they were often enclosed by elements of the endoplasmic survival of 50% of rectal biopsies after 19 hr of in vitro reticulum and by Golgi membranes (Fig. 10B). Con- culture. In contrast to their findings with rectal mucosa, trol biopsies did not contain identifiable droplets in the we noted necrosis of all tissue samples by 6 hr when this absorptive cell cytoplasm. method was applied to in vitro culture of small intestinal mucosa. However, a simple and inexpensive organ cul- DISCUSSION ture method, in contrast totissue culture methods, proved In our initial efforts to maintain mucosal biopsies from successful for the in vitro maintainance of intestinal mu- the small intestine in vitro, we used methods similar to cosa for at least a 24 hr period. 1428 T. H. Browning and J. S. Trier fore. Unlike chick embryo tissue which is sterile, intes- tinal mucosal samples obtained by peroral biopsy are grossly contaminated by bacteria. Therefore, while me- dia, culture plates, and instruments used for the orient- ing and handling the tissue were sterile in our studies, no attempt was made to maintain strict aseptic technique in the initial handling of the biopsies. The addition of penicillin and streptomycin to the media undoubtedly helped retard further growth of those organisms present, since bacterial overgrowth did not appear to interfere with the culture of mucosa for the 24 hr period. It may be that bacterial proliferation might become a serious problem should longer survival of the culture be desired. There seems little doubt that intestinal mucosa remains viable after 24 hr of in vitro culture by the method de- scribed. As is illustrated above, the fine structure of the mucosa after 24 hr of culture compares favorably with fresh tissue processed immediately after excision. The incorporation of thymidine-3H into the nuclei of undif- ferentiated crypt cells provides evidence that the epi- thelial cells were actively synthesizing deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). The presence of mitoses in crypts of biopsies maintained in vitro for 24 hr and the migration of cells with labeled nuclei from the crypts onto the base of the villi indicate that epithelial cell proliferation and FIGURE 7 Higher magnification micrograph of
