Organ Culture of Mucosal Biopsies
KEYWORDS: cells, culture, vitro, biopsies, cell, tissue, medium, normal, organ, epithelial, biopsy, small, fig, cultured, cytoplasm


hr and the migration of cells with labeled nuclei from the crypts onto the base of the villi indicate that epithelial cell proliferation and FIGURE 7 Higher magnification micrograph of undifferen- tiated crypt cell cytoplasm from the same biopsy as Fig. 6. A migration occurred as well. Moreover, the rate of mi- large lysosome (L) is seen above and a prominent accumu- gration in normal biopsies cultured for 24 hr was the lation of glycogen (G) below. X 22,000. same as that observed in vivo in biopsies obtained from volunteers without intestinal disease 24 hr after injec- tion with thymidine-3H (28). In both situations, labeled There are critical differences between organ and tis- cells had migrated to the base of the villi. sue culture methodology (10, 24) which may account for The studies of fat absorption provide further evidence the greater success of the organ culture technique. When that the epithelial cells remain viable after in vitro cul- organ culture methods are used, the tissue sample is not immersed; rather, the tissue is placed on the surface of ture for 24 hr. Many fat droplets were present in the absorptive cells of biopsies cultured for 24 hr and then the medium, and the medium is allowed to seep over the postincubated in micellar lipid solutions. Strauss (4) specimen by capillary action. In all likelihood, this tech- has shown that the morphological detection of the ab- nique permits far better oxygenation of the tissue sam- sorbed micellar lipid requires not only absorption of ple than can be achieved during immersion, yet exposure monoglyceride and fatty acid but their subsequent syn- to the medium is satisfactory for the nutritional needs of thesis into triglyceride within the absorptive cell cyto- the tissue sample. Also, agitation, such as occurs with a plasm. Thus it appears that both lipid uptake by the metabolic shaker which is often used in tissue culture, is absorptive cells and triglyceride synthesis within the carefully avoided during organ culture, since it may absorptive cells occurred in biopsies cultured in vitro severely traumatize the tissue sample and contribute to for 24 hr. its disintegration. Finally, organ culture and tissue cul- Previous in vitro studies of the function and metabo- ture media differ significantly. For example, Trowell's lism of intestinal mucosa have been limited by the rapid T-8 medium used in these studies contains insulin and epithelial cell necrosis which occurs after
