Organ Culture of Mucosal Biopsies
KEYWORDS: cells, culture, vitro, biopsies, cell, tissue, medium, normal, organ, epithelial, biopsy, small, fig, cultured, cytoplasm


differ significantly. For example, Trowell's lism of intestinal mucosa have been limited by the rapid T-8 medium used in these studies contains insulin and epithelial cell necrosis which occurs after excision of in- 4 g of glucose per liter, whereas Eagle's tissue culture medium contains no insulin and only 1 g of glucose per testinal mucosal samples. It is hoped that the organ cul- liter. ture technique described here, with which peroral mu- Others have successfully organ-cultured small intes- cosal biopsies can be maintained in vitro for 24 hr, will tine obtained from chick embryos (25-27) but, to our permit studies of normal mucosal function and metabo- knowledge, successful culture of small intestinal mucosa lism not previously possible. Moreover, the utilization of obtained from adult mammals has not been reported be- in vitro organ culture of biopsies obtained from pa- Organ Culture of Small Intestine 1429 FIGURE 8 Paneth cell cytoplasm from 2 biopsy maintained in vitro for 24 hr. Again, cell structure is well preserved and indistinguishable from that seen in biopsies fixed after excision. Nr, nucleus; ER, granular endoplasmic reticulum; G, Golgi material; L, lysosome; S, secretory granules. X 12,000. tients with diffuse mucosal diseases, such as celiac sprue, of substance from the mucosal to the serosal surface. should permit studies not possible in vivo which might J. Physiol. 123: 116. 2. Parsons, D. S. 1968. Methods for investigation of in- help clarify the pathogenesis of such disorders. testinal absorption. In Handbook of Physiology; Ali- mentary Canal. C. F. Code, editor. American Physiologi- cal Society, Washington, D. C. 1177. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 3. Strauss, E. W. 1963. The absorption of fat by intestine We are indebted to Dr. Russell Ross of the Department of of golden hamster in vitro. J. Cell Biol. 17: 597. Seattle, Wash., for his valuable advice regarding organ testinal fat absorption in vitro from mixed micelles con- culture methodology. We also wish to acknowledge the able taining linolenic acid, monoolein, and bile salt. J. Lipid technical assistance of Marilynne Turner, Cathy Nichols, and Res. 7: 307. Alice Brannon. 5. Kopp, W. L., J. S. Trier, I. L. Mackenzie, and R. M. This work was supported by grants AM-11656 and AM- Donaldson, Jr. 1968. Antibodies to intestinal microvillous 13700 from the National Institute of Arthritis and Metabolic membranes. I. Characterization and morphologic locali- zation. J. Exp. Med. 128: 357. Browning was supported by U. S. Public Health
