ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


ABSTRACT The adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) is synthesized by the corticotroph cells of the anterior pituitary gland. ACTH, a post-translational product of the proopiomelanocortin protein (POMC), is a 39-amino acid peptide, its sequence being highly conserved in mammals. ACTH binds to the highly specific, for ACTH, melanocortin (MC) 2 receptors (MC2R) located on the surface of adrenal zona fasciculata cells producing cortisol. MC2R belongs to a superfamily of type 1 G protein-coupled receptors. The family of melanocortin receptors includes five members each having characteristic size, tissue distribution, and biological significance. Thus, the MC1R is the principal melanocortin receptor in the skin where it regulates its pigmentation. The MC3R and the MC4R in the central nervous system regulate food intake and energy homeostasis, and knockout animals for these receptors are obese. The MC5R exhibits a wide distribution although its levels in the central nervous system are low. In the adrenal cortex, it induces aldosterone production from the zona glomerulosa cells. ACTH-mediated cortisol synthesis from the zona fasciculata cells depends on a large number of factors of the adrenal microenvironment, such as chromaffin and immune cells, adipocytes, and adrenal innervation. Circadian rhythm of cortisol secretion is ensured by the central and peripheral local adrenal clock system. To activate ACTH the MC2R needs the presence of a small trans-membrane protein, the MC2 accessory protein (MRAP). Mutations of this protein result in the type 2 familial glucocorticoid deficiency (FGD) (FGD) syndrome. Type 1 FGD-syndrome is the result of mutations of the MC2R itself. ACTH stimulates cortisol synthesis and secretion by regulating multiple steps in the steroidogenetic pathway including an increase of the number of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptors and the cleavage of the side-chain of cholesterol converting it to pregnenolone, the first and rate-limiting step in cortisol production. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION It is now more than 80 years since Selye introduced the concept of “general adaptation syndrome”, later renamed “stress syndrome” as a state of threatened homeostasis in response to stressful stimuli, the stressors ( 1 ). Selye was also the first to describe “corticoids” and to propose that glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids regulated not only carbohydrate and electrolyte metabolism, respectively, but also exerted anti- or pro-inflammatory effects. By stimulating adrenal corticosteroids synthesis, the adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH), which was first isolated in 1943 and synthesized in the 1970s, plays a central
