ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


but also exerted anti- or pro-inflammatory effects. By stimulating adrenal corticosteroids synthesis, the adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH), which was first isolated in 1943 and synthesized in the 1970s, plays a central role in homeostasis and stress and is a key component of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) axis ( 2 , 3 , 4 ). The corticotroph cells of the anterior pituitary synthesize and secrete the ACTH which via the circulation binds and activates its receptors in the adrenal fasciculate cells affecting most steps in the synthesis of cortisol. This widely accepted model has been extensively advanced and enriched during the last few years. More specifically, it has been found that for the ACTH receptor, the melanocortin receptor 2 (MC2R), needs the presence of a small trans-membrane protein, the MC2 accessory protein (MRAP) to respond to ACTH. Mutations of this protein result in the type 2 familial glucocorticoid deficiency (FGD) syndrome. Type 1 FGD is the result of mutations of the MC2R itself. Newer data reveal the role of the autocrine-paracrine micro-regulation of ACTH-mediated cortisol synthesis by a large number of intra-adrenally produced factors deriving from chromaffin cells, resident immune cells, intra- and peri-adrenal adipocytes, and adrenal innervation. Moreover, there is an increasing interest in the role of a central and peripheral (endogenous) adrenal clock system exerting a circadian regulation of ACTH secretion and action ( 5 , 6 ). Great progress has been also made in our understanding of the pathophysiology of the triple A syndrome, which is caused by mutations in the gene encoding the regulatory protein ALADIN, a product of the ADRACALIN gene. The updated version of this chapter includes the classical data regarding ACTH-induced cortisol production by the adrenal gland, as well as a description of the new findings. ACTH AND ITS PRECURSOR MOLECULE PRO-OPIOMELANOCORTIN (POMC) The ACTH hormone is the primary regulator of cortisol production synthesized in the human adrenal fasciculate cells. ACTH is a post-translational product of the proopiomelanocortin protein (POMC), which is synthesized in the corticotroph cells of the anterior pituitary gland. ACTH is a 39-amino acid peptide. Its sequence is highly conserved in mammals since only amino acids 31 and 33 vary between higher mammals and primates. The biological activity of the ACTH molecule depends on its first 24 amino-terminal amino acids while fragments of less than 20 amino acids long are completely inactive. However, the residue 25-39 is important for the stability of
