ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


depends on its first 24 amino-terminal amino acids while fragments of less than 20 amino acids long are completely inactive. However, the residue 25-39 is important for the stability of the molecule, increasing its otherwise short half-life. Truncation of ACTH from the C-terminus gradually reduces its activity while removal of the four basic residues (Lys–Lys–Arg–Arg) in positions 15–18 inactivates it completely. Finally, it should be noted that its first 13 residues activate all melanocortin receptors in addition to the ACTH receptor. ACTH acts through the formation of cAMP which facilitates the transfer of cholesterol into the mitochondrial inner membrane for the synthesis of adrenal steroids ( 7 , 8 ) ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. POMC products after enzyme-mediated cleavage. The synthesis of POMC, its post-translational modification and the secretion of ACTH are under the control of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH or CRF) and to a lesser degree to arginine vasopressin (AVP). Both these hormones are synthesized in the parvocellular cells of the paraventricular (PVN) hypothalamic nucleus and are under the negative control of the circulating glucocorticoids. It should be noted that the AVP derived from PVN follows a distinct regulatory and secretory path, completely different from that of AVP synthesized in the magnocellular cells and transferred and secreted from the posterior pituitary as a regulator of water balance. Indeed, the magnocellular-derived AVP is transferred to posterior pituitary by axonal transport and its synthesis and secretion are under the influence of osmotic and oncotic stimuli and plays no part in stress response. On the other hand, the parvocellular-derived CRH and AVP travel, via axonal transport, to the median eminence (ME) at the lower part of hypothalamus from where they are both secreted into the vascular connection between hypothalamus and anterior pituitary, the portal circulation. Multiple neural signals regulate the synthesis of CRH and AVP as well as their secretion from ME. In addition, a complex central clock synchronized by light information received via the retino-hypothalamic tract from the eye, is located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and sends circadian oscillatory stimuli to the PVN, influencing the secretion of CRH and AVP, and generating the circadian secretion of ACTH ( 9 ). This central clock entrains the peripheral oscillators in the adrenal gland via three pathways: (a) the neurohumoral pathway via the HPA axis, (b) the neural pathway via the autonomic nervous system, and (c), a local circadian intra-adrenal regulation of
