ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


adrenal gland via three pathways: (a) the neurohumoral pathway via the HPA axis, (b) the neural pathway via the autonomic nervous system, and (c), a local circadian intra-adrenal regulation of ACTH action ( 10 ). However, besides the central circadian regulation of ACTH secretion, local adrenal clocks are thought to regulate also the responsiveness of the adrenal cortex to ACTH in a circadian fashion. Moreover, it is known since the 1960s that adrenals tissues can exhibit an intrinsic rhythmicity of cortisol secretion independently of the upstream rhythm of the HPA axis ( 10 ). ( Figure 2 ) Figure 2. The pathway of stimulation of ACTH secretion from the pituitary and its action on the adrenal gland ( 6 ). CRH reaching the anterior pituitary corticotrophs and binds to the CRH-R1 receptors. The corticotrophs represent approximately 10% of anterior pituitary cells. Their main product, POMC is a 260 AA protein, which is post-translationally cleaved into several bioactive peptides that are secreted from the corticotrophs along with ACTH, including β-lipotropin, the endogenous opioid peptide beta-endorphin, and melanocyte stimulating hormones (MSH) ( 11 , 12 ). Glucocorticoids exert their negative feedback control on both the hypothalamus at the PVN and anterior pituitary corticotrophs suppressing POMC synthesis and ACTH secretion. Furthermore, chronic exposure to high levels of endogenous or exogenous glucocorticoids results in characteristic corticotropic cell degeneration. The immune system participates in the regulation of ACTH production via interleukins (IL)-1, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and the interferons alpha and gamma which affect the axis at all its levels i.e. hypothalamus, pituitary, and adrenal cortex ( 13 ). Finally, the intra-adrenal production of cytokines appears to play an important modulator of the ACTH-mediated effect on adrenocortical cells ( 14 ). EFFECTS OF ACTH ON ADRENAL CORTICAL CELLS ACTH enters the systemic circulation and binds to the highly specific, for ACTH, MC2R located on the surface of adrenal cortical cells. The adult mammalian adrenal cortex is composed of three zones. The outermost or zona glomerulosa produces aldosterone, the middle or zona fasciculata is the largest producing cortisol, while the innermost or zona reticularis produces the weak adrenal androgens. ACTH is the main stimulus of the zona fasciculata and zona reticularis, stimulating glucocorticoid secretion, while angiotensin II and potassium are the main stimuli of aldosterone secretion by the zona glomerulosa. Most MC2R are localized in the zona fasciculata. In general, the steroids produced by the
