ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


angiotensin II and potassium are the main stimuli of aldosterone secretion by the zona glomerulosa. Most MC2R are localized in the zona fasciculata. In general, the steroids produced by the adrenal cortex are classified as 21-carbon steroids (glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids), as 19-carbon steroids (adrenal androgens), and 18-carbon (adrenal estrogens). Cortisol, the main endogenous glucocorticoid, is synthesized in zona fasciculata under the exclusive regulation of ACTH. ACTH is of secondary importance in aldosterone production (where plasma angiotensin II and serum potassium represent the main regulators). The production of adrenal androgens is more complicated with ACTH playing a minor role. Under normal circumstances, ACTH acts with equivalent potency as a secretagogue for cortisol and aldosterone. Recently, novel evidence suggested that aldosterone secretion stimulated by ACTH via its receptor [called melanocortin receptor 2 (MC2R)] is observed in adrenal tissues of patients with primary aldosteronism ( 15 ). The mechanism of ACTH action follows the classical peptide hormone rules. Indeed, ACTH binds to its receptor, MC2R, located on adrenocortical cell membranes activating a Gs-protein resulting in an increase of intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). cAMP relays ACTH-mediated functions via the activation of the serine–threonine kinase cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) or the exchange proteins directly activated by cAMP (EPAC1 and 2 also named cAMP-regulated guanine nucleotide exchange factors (cAMP-GEFs) I and II). Following cAMP activation, PKA and EPAC transmit signals differently. PKA phosphorylates numerous substrates, while EPACs act as GEFs catalyzing the conversion of the small GTPases Rap1 and Rap2 from an inactive (GDP-bound) to an active form [guanine triphosphate (GTP)-bound] ( 16 ). ACTH stimulates cortisol synthesis and secretion by regulating multiple steps in the steroidogenetic pathway. Steroid hormones are produced from the same precursor, cholesterol, by a set of cytochrome P450 steroid hydroxylases (CYP11A1, CYP11B1 and CYP11B2, CYP17 and CYP21) and the steroid dehydrogenase 3βHSD ( 16 ). The enzymes are differentially expressed in the three zones of the adrenal cortex (zona glomerulosa, zona fasciculata, and zona reticularis) giving rise to zone-specific hormone production. In humans, the primary source of cholesterol for steroid hormone production is LDL-cholesterol, which is imported via the LDL receptor (LDLR) from the blood stream. About 80% of the cholesterol needed for the synthesis of adrenal steroids is supplied by LDL. ACTH increases the number of LDLR resulting in an increase in overall uptake of cholesterol ester. Once cholesterol ester enters the cell, hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL) converts it
