ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


supplied by LDL. ACTH increases the number of LDLR resulting in an increase in overall uptake of cholesterol ester. Once cholesterol ester enters the cell, hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL) converts it to free cholesterol ( 15 ). Free cholesterol is then delivered to the inner mitochondrial membrane by the actions of steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) and cholesterol-binding proteins ( 17 ). The precursor cholesterol for steroidogenesis can be derived from a combination of sources: ( 1 ) de novo cellular cholesterol synthesis, ( 2 ) mobilization of cholesterol’s esters (CE) stored in lipid droplets (LD), and ( 3 ) lipoprotein-derived CE delivered through endocytic uptake, which is mediated by the LDL receptor or “selective” cellular uptake of HDL cholesterol via the scavenger receptor, class B type 1 (SR-B1) ( 17 ). Acute and chronic ACTH stimuli can modulate SR-B1 function, resulting in changes in the ability of SR-B1 to mediate cholesterol uptake and use for steroids production. ACTH also regulates the formation of microvillar channels in the plasma membranes which retain HDL particles and contain high numbers of HDL receptors. Once PKA is activated, both an acute and a chronic response occur, which contribute to increased steroid hormone synthesis. During the acute response, PKA phosphorylates HSL, which converts cholesterol esters to free cholesterol. This rapid response also involves an increase in StAR, which facilitates the movement of cholesterol to the inner mitochondrial membrane, where the limiting enzyme CYP11A1 resides ( 18 ). The chronic response corresponds to the transcriptional activation of all the other steroidogenic enzymes. ACTH affects the cleavage of the side-chain of cholesterol converting it to pregnenolone, the first and rate-limiting step in cortisol production. The CYP11A1 gene which encodes the cholesterol side-chain cleavage is regulated by ACTH and by the steroidogenic factor 1 (SF-1). Moreover, ACTH hydroxylates the pregnenolone in the 17-OH position which is subsequently converted into 11-deoxycortisol. 11-deoxycortisol moves back to mitochondria where a hydroxylation at position 21 results in cortisol which is then rapidly secreted into the systemic circulation ( 19 ). Activation of the MC2R by ACTH in the adrenals also induces the adrenal production of factors affecting adrenal growth and its blood flow. Thus, among other things, ACTH stimulates the intra-adrenal production of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and the vaso-relaxant epoxy-eicosa-trienoic acids (EETs) ( 20 , 21 ). Finally, chronic exposure of adrenocortical cells to high levels of ACTH (from eutopic
