ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and the vaso-relaxant epoxy-eicosa-trienoic acids (EETs) ( 20 , 21 ). Finally, chronic exposure of adrenocortical cells to high levels of ACTH (from eutopic or ectopic production) results in the development of adrenal hyperplasia, nodules, and finally neoplasia. Activation of ACTH receptor and PKA are considered vital for maintaining the highly differentiated cellular phenotype of adrenal cells and the subsequent activation of ERK is of low importance for cell proliferation. In addition, ACTH signals inactivate Akt, a kinase that promotes survival and proliferation. On the other hand, ACTH receptors are up-regulated in adrenocortical adenomas of patients with ACTH-dependent hyper-cortisolemia, intensifying the adrenal response to the already elevated ACTH, aggravating their disease. ACTH also up-regulates the human homolog of Diminuto/Dwarf1 gene, which is associated with benign adrenocortical adenomas. Low expression of this gene correlates with apoptosis, indicating that its intensified expression may contribute to cell survival. Wnt-signalling is the main pathway controlling cortisol secretion. Recent studies have shown that cortisol-producing neoplasms frequently display somatic or germline mutations that affect proteins of the cAMP/PKA pathway, leading to constitutive activation of PKA. These mutations include gain-of-function mutations of the MC2R, GNAS, the catalytic subunit α of protein kinase A (PRKACA) and PRKACB genes and inactivating mutations of the regulatory subunit R1α of PKA ( PRKAR1A ), and of two cAMP-binding phosphodiesterases ( PDE11A and PDE8B ) genes, mimicking the action of ACTH to stimulate glucocorticoid production, providing a molecular basis for the pathogenesis of primary adrenal Cushing syndrome ( 22 ). It has also been shown that cortisol secretion by adrenocortical adenomas and hyperplasias could be stimulated by both locally produced ACTH ( 23 ) and aberrantly expressed membrane receptors, such as those of serotonin ( 24 ). Prolonged activation of the cAMP/PKA pathway by ACTH induces an aberrant serotonergic stimulatory loop in the adrenal cortex that likely participates in the pathogenesis of corticosteroid hypersecretion. Mutations of the PRKAR1A are considered the main cause of familial and sporadic primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD). Moreover, inactivation of PDE11A and PDE8B are associated with isolated micronodular disease (iMAD) which can be also found in PPNAD and primary bilateral macronodular adrenal hyperplasia (PBMAH) cases. Recently, a germline mutation in Armadillo repeat containing protein 5 ( ARMC5 ) gene was found in 25–50% of PBMAH patients ( 25 ). PBMAH that results from ARMC5 mutations have been shown to contain
