ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


Armadillo repeat containing protein 5 ( ARMC5 ) gene was found in 25–50% of PBMAH patients ( 25 ). PBMAH that results from ARMC5 mutations have been shown to contain clusters of ACTH-producing cells that stimulate cortisol secretion in an autocrine/paracrine fashion in adrenal tissues through the MC2R ( 23 ). The role of ACTH in adrenocortical tumors remains to be elucidated. It may depend on the state of differentiation of the particular cell or the presence of additional events that may decide the direction of the ACTH signal towards cell survival or inhibition of proliferation ( 26 , 27 ). MELANOCORTIN 2 (MC2), THE ACTH RECEPTOR ACTH exerts its effects on the adrenals via a highly selective receptor, a member of the MC2R superfamily of type 1 G protein-coupled receptors. As mentioned above, the MC2 receptor is highly specific for only one ligand, ACTH ( 28 ). The family of melanocortin receptors includes five members, each having characteristic size, tissue distribution, and biological significance ( 29 ). The MC system and its receptors regulate multiple physiological processes including skin pigmentation, glucocorticoid production, food intake and energy balance. The MC2R is a 297 amino acid transmembrane G-protein coupled receptor. In humans, it maps to 18p11.2. Activation of the MC2R initiates a cascade of events affecting multiple steps in adrenal cortisol production. The MC2R is dependent on a small accessory protein, melanocortin receptor accessory protein (MRAP), which is essential for both trafficking of MC2R to the plasma membrane and for ACTH binding and activation of MC2R. MC2R–MRAP interactions may affect the trafficking of certain receptors to the cell membrane or allow activation of the receptor by its ligand. Specific mutations in the region of the N-terminal tail of MRAP1 and MRAP2 are essential for promoting only the trafficking of receptors to the plasma membrane (MRAP2) or essential for ACTH-MCR2 receptor ligand recognition and function (MRAP1). (see below). Mutations in the MC2 may result in familial glucocorticoid deficiency, a group of autosomal recessive disorders characterized by resistance to ACTH. It should be noted that although the MC2R is expressed predominantly in the adrenal cortex, it is also present in skin melanocytes where its ligand ACTH also binds to the MC1 thus affecting skin pigmentation. Indeed, chronically elevated ACTH in the circulation (chronic adrenal insufficiency or ectopic ACTH production or in Nelson’s syndrome following adrenalectomy) can induce skin and gum hyper-pigmentation. MC2R is
