ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


skin pigmentation. Indeed, chronically elevated ACTH in the circulation (chronic adrenal insufficiency or ectopic ACTH production or in Nelson’s syndrome following adrenalectomy) can induce skin and gum hyper-pigmentation. MC2R is also expressed in adipocytes and mediates stress-induced lipolysis via central ACTH release. The MC2R is localized in all three zones of the adrenal cortex. Results from binding studies indicate that in the adrenal cortex MC2R can be subdivided into a type with a KD of 1 nM, but with only 60 binding sites per cell and into a second type with a KD of 300 nM, but with several orders of magnitude more binding sites (about 600,000) per cell. The presence of high and low affinity receptors for ACTH means that the adrenal cortex is highly sensitive and specific to the usual concentrations of ACTH in the systemic circulation ( 30 ). Intra-Adrenal Regulation of Cortisol Production The fasciculate cells of the adrenal cortex are affected by multiple factors produced within the adrenal gland. It should be noted that in addition to steroidogenic cells, the adrenals contain the chromaffin cells in the adrenal medulla arranged in columns crisscrossing the length of the gland, nerve fibers from intra- and extra-adrenal neurons, multiple cells of the immune system including monocytes / macrophages, mast cells, lymphocytes, vascular endothelial cells, and adipocytes within and around the gland. All these cells form complex intra-adrenal networks of interaction affecting, among other things, the response of fasciculata cells to ACTH, the expression of the MC2 receptors and their associated proteins, the growth and vascularization of the gland and many other functions. In addition, it has been also shown that the adrenal glands exhibit an intrinsic rhythmicity of corticosterone secretion in animal studies. Indeed, adrenal denervation leads to an abolishment of both the circadian corticosterone rhythm, as well as of the daily variation of the adrenal responsiveness to ACTH ( 9 ). Role of Adrenal Chromaffin Cells Chromaffin cells in the adrenal medulla originate from neural crest, their main products being the catecholamines epinephrine and norepinephrine. Chromaffin cells also produce neuropeptides and cytokines released together with catecholamines. Chromaffin cells are not clearly separated from the adrenal cortex as previously thought. Indeed, chromaffin cells can affect adrenal cortical cells in a paracrine mode of action since they can be found in all zones of the adult adrenal cortex up to the outer layer of the cortex i.e. zona glomerulosa
