ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


in a paracrine mode of action since they can be found in all zones of the adult adrenal cortex up to the outer layer of the cortex i.e. zona glomerulosa and may form larger conglomerates of chromaffin in the adrenal subcapsular region. On the other hand, cortical cells are also located in the medulla, where they may form islets surrounded by chromaffin cells. This close association between cortical and chromaffin cells allows a paracrine regulation of adrenocortical steroidogenesis. Indeed, adrenal chromaffin cells synthesize a multitude of neuropeptides including beta-endorphin, the enkephalins, the dynorphins, CRH, substance P, adrenomedullin, neuropeptide Y (NPY), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), somatostatin etc. These neuropeptides can affect either the response of cortical cells in zona fasciculate to ACTH, the vascularization of cortex, its growth, or they may exert direct modulatory effects on the cortical cells themselves. These effects on the adrenal cortex coordinate the two stress axes and streamline steroidogenesis as per the needs of the adaptation response to stressful stimuli ( 31 - 35 ). ( Figure 3 ). Figure 3. Autocrine and paracrine effects of intra-adrenally-produced substances on ACTH-induced cortisol synthesis. Role of Peri- and Intra-Adrenal Adipocytes on the Adrenal Effects of ACTH It is now suspected that the peri- and intra-adrenal adipocytes modulate the effects of ACTH on adreno-cortical cells. Thus, it has been shown that leptin exerts an inhibitory effect on ACTH-induced corticosteroid production by human adrenocortical cells without affecting their viability and proliferation. It should be noted that murine adipocyte cell lines and immortalized adipocytes express the MC2R suggesting that these adipocytes are also affected by ACTH ( 36 - 37 ). The MC2 Signaling Pathway As stated above, the MC2R is a G-protein coupled receptor. Among the G proteins Gs and Gi2 are implicated in ACTH signalling. ACTH also increases the transcription of G-alpha/q or G-q/11, a hetero-trimeric protein, which couples with the MC2R. G-q/11 activates the phospholipase C pathway. Mutations of the alpha subunits of Gs and Gi2 are associated with adrenocortical tumor formation. Signals that initiate from the MC2R and the G-proteins lead to cAMP formation and activation of PKA and PKC. As a result, several intermediate molecules are involved including kinases and transcription factors that orchestrate the ACTH actions on adrenal cells. The MC2R is a weak activator of MAP Kinases ERK1 and ERK2. ERK1 and ERK2 activation is important in ACTH-triggered mitogenic effects.
