ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


that orchestrate the ACTH actions on adrenal cells. The MC2R is a weak activator of MAP Kinases ERK1 and ERK2. ERK1 and ERK2 activation is important in ACTH-triggered mitogenic effects. In normal adrenal cortical cells, MC2 signals lead to activation of the Stress Activated Protein Kinase (SAPK) JNK. Activation of JNK depends on PKC activity and mobilization of intracellular Ca++ implying that both PKC activation and Ca++ influx result from the binding of ACTH to its receptor. In tissue culture experiments using the Y1 adrenocortical tumor cell line, ACTH exerts an antiproliferative effect, mediated by cAMP. ACTH signals result in dephosphorylation and inactivation of Akt/PKB kinase thus inhibiting the proliferation of adrenocortical tumor cells. Such anti-proliferative effect is most likely associated with increased steroidogenesis and suppression of the malignant phenotype of this particular cell line. The MC2R effects are mediated via activation of the cAMP pathway, which includes the cAMP-dependent transcription factors CREM (cAMP responsive element modulator) and CREB (cAMP responsive element binding protein) that result in transcriptional activation of steroidogenic enzymes, cell proliferation and differentiation. Activation of the MC2R leads to stimulation of Fos and Jun transcription, which by heterodimerizing form the AP1 complex. It should be noted here that the Fos gene family consists of four members, c-Fos, FosB, Fra1 and Fra2, while the Jun family consists of three members, c-Jun, JunB and JunD . These proteins form hetero- or homo- dimers inducing transcription through binding to AP1- binding sites. Activation of AP1-dependent transcriptions leads to the production of several pro-mitotic proteins while its inhibition results in a blockade of cell cycle to the G1 to S phase transition. THE MELANOCORTINERGIC SYSTEM Conceptually, the fact that the ACTH receptor belongs to the melanocortin receptor family implies a close association between several physiological processes including stress, homeostasis, regulation of food intake and regulation of energy balance, immunity, and skin function. Indeed, ACTH can bind receptors in melanocytes, adipocytes, mononuclear/ macrophages and several areas within the central nervous system, with a much lower affinity compared to that of the MC2R. However, direct actions of ACTH through the MC2R have also been reported in several peripheral tissues. For instance, ACTH inhibits leptin secretion from adipocytes via the MC2R present in adipocytes, an affect indirectly contributing to the regulation of energy homeostasis during stressful periods ( 38 ). The melanocortinergic system in the central nervous system consists of the endogenous agonists alpha-,
