ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


an affect indirectly contributing to the regulation of energy homeostasis during stressful periods ( 38 ). The melanocortinergic system in the central nervous system consists of the endogenous agonists alpha-, beta-, and gamma-MSH (post-translational products of POMC), the naturally occurring antagonists, the agouti-related protein (AGRP) produced by the arcuate nucleus neurons in hypothalamus and the agouti protein found in the skin. The AGRP antagonizes alpha-MSH in the hypothalamus at the level of MC3 and MC4R. The agouti protein and AGRP require the presence of a third protein, Mahogany, to antagonize MSH. Mahogany protein is widely expressed and it is a close relative of Attractin, an immunoregulatory protein made by human T lymphocytes. Activation of the central melanocortin receptors (MC3 and MC4) by alpha MSH inhibits feeding and alters the rate of energy consumption leading to weight loss, whereas its blockade results in obesity. Development of MC3 and MC4 knockout mice revealed differential actions of each receptor. MC4 -/- mice were hyperphagic with partially increased metabolic efficiency while MC3 -/- animals developed obesity due to increased metabolic efficiency, thus underlying their significance in metabolism and obesity. The MCR is also involved in the regulation of autonomic nervous system tone and of arterial pressure at the level of the central nervous system. The MC receptor appears to be also involved in several higher learning processes. Outside the central nervous system, the MC4 receptor is expressed in osteoblasts where it may be involved in bone remodeling facilitating the communication between osteoblasts and osteoclasts ( 39 - 41 ) (Table). The MC1 receptor (MC1R) is a 315 amino acid transmembrane protein which in humans is mapped to 16q24. It is the principal melanocortin receptor in the skin where it regulates its pigmentation. It exhibits high affinity for most MSH isoforms and a much lower affinity for ACTH. Its highest affinity is towards alpha–MSH (Ki = 0.033 nmol/l). Stimulation of MC1R in the skin and the hair follicles by alpha-MSH results in induction of melanogenesis producing dark skin and hair in several species including the humans. The MC1R is also present in the adrenals, the leukocytes, lungs, lymph nodes, ovaries, testes, pituitary, placenta, spleen and the uterus. The agouti protein is an endogenous antagonist of alpha-MSH at the level of the MC1R in the skin. Over-expression of the agouti protein results in fair skin, reddish hair and disturbances of energy balance. Variants of the MC1R
