ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


alpha-MSH at the level of the MC1R in the skin. Over-expression of the agouti protein results in fair skin, reddish hair and disturbances of energy balance. Variants of the MC1R in humans are associated with red hair, pale skin, and increased risk for skin cancer. The MC1R in leukocytes and macrophages has been associated with the immune effects of alpha-MSH ( 42 ). The MC3 receptor (MC3R) is expressed mainly in the brain. In humans it is a 360 amino acid protein and maps to 20q13.2. The MC3R and the MC4R in the Central Nervous System regulate food intake and energy homeostasis. Knockout (KO) animals for these receptors are obese. The MC4R KO mice are hyperphagic while the MC3R KO animals are not hyperphagic but still obese signifying the effect of this receptor on the overall energy homeostasis. The agouti and the agouti-related protein are endogenous natural antagonists of the MC1R, MC3R and MC4R. Finally, the MC3R may be involved in the mechanism turning off the inflammatory response mainly via suppression of macrophage migration. In the brain the MC3R is mainly expressed in the arcuate nucleus at the basis of hypothalamus where it regulates hunger and satiety. The MC4 receptor (MC4R) is a 332 amino acid trans-membrane protein. It is expressed in the central nervous system (mainly in the hypothalamus), the gastrointestinal tract and the placenta. In humans, it maps to 18q22. The MC4R is a major regulator of food intake. Inactivating mutations of MC4R cause obesity both in mice and humans. Global homozygous deletion of MC4R in mice results in hyperphagia, increased fat and lean mass, increased body length, reduced activity, and a suppressed metabolic rate. Inactivating mutations in MC4R are the single most common form of monogenic obesity in humans. Common variants near the MC4R locus are associated with adiposity, body weight, risk of obesity, and insulin resistance. In addition to the homeostasis of energy and thermogenesis the MC4R receptor plays other roles including regulation of autonomic control of blood pressure. Finally, the MC4R plays an important role in the production of the neuropeptides YY and glucagon-like peptide 1 by the enteroendocrine cells ( 43 - 47 ). The MC5 receptor (MC5R) is a 325 amino acid trans-membrane protein. It is expressed in the adrenals, skin, stomach, lung and spleen. Its levels in the central nervous system are very low. In the adrenal cortex, it is expressed in
