ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


protein. It is expressed in the adrenals, skin, stomach, lung and spleen. Its levels in the central nervous system are very low. In the adrenal cortex, it is expressed in all three layers but predominantly in the aldosterone-producing zona glomerulosa cells. The presence of MC5R expression in zona glomerulosa may be involved in melanocortin-induced aldosterone production. In the skin, the MC5R affects exocrine function. It is expressed in peripheral lymphocytes and in splenocytes indicating that this may be the receptor utilized by ACTH in those cells. MC5R is expressed in articular chondrocytes mediating cytokine production in the inflamed joints in rheumatoid arthritis. The MC5 receptor also mediates the production of IL-6 from adipocytes contributing to metabolic inflammation and insulin resistance. Indeed, stimulation of the MC5R in 3T3-L1 adipocytes with αMSH induces lipolysis and suppresses re-esterification of fatty acids through the ERK1/2 pathway. Table. The Melanocortin Receptor Family View in own window Receptor Ligand affinity Main site of expression Primary Function Primary Function Disease phenotype with loss of function mutations MC1R αMSH =ACTH>βMSH> γMSH Melanocytes Pigmentation, inflammation Increased risk for skin cancer MC2R ACTH only Adrenal cortex Adrenal steroidogenesis FGD MC3R γMSH> αMSH =βMSH>ACTH CNS, GI tract, Kidney Energy homeostasis, inflammation, food intake Obesity MC4R αMSH = βMSH = ACTH >> γMSH CNS Energy homeostasis, thermogenesis, appetite regulation, erectile Obesity MC5R αMSH > ACTH>βMSH> γMSH Lymphocytes, exocrine cells Exocrine function, regulation of sebaceous glands Decreased production of sebaceous lipids in mice Abbreviations: MSH: Melanocyte-stimulating hormone, CNS: central nervous system, GI: gastrointestinal tract, FGD: familial glucocorticoid deficiency. Regulation of MC2 Receptor Gene Expression The MC2R gene has one untranslated exon (exon one), an 18kb intron, and the coding exon (exon two). The existence of different MC2 transcripts in human adrenal cortical cells suggests the presence of multiple transcription initiation sites. An alternate exon 1 (exon1f) is transcribed in adipose tissue but not in the adrenals. This exon appears to be transcribed by a different promoter region from that reported in the adrenal, thus conferring tissue specificity. Studies on the MC2 promoter polymorphism reveal a single nucleotide polymorphism close to the transcriptional initiation site (-2C/T) resulting in inhibition of transcription causing reduced MC2 levels even in the heterozygous state. This allele is present in 10% of the population. The MC2R promoter contains binding sites for several transcription factors. Transcription factors are nuclear proteins modifying the expression of genes by binding to specific DNA
