ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


in 10% of the population. The MC2R promoter contains binding sites for several transcription factors. Transcription factors are nuclear proteins modifying the expression of genes by binding to specific DNA sequences usually located upstream of gene promoters. Phosphorylation of a transcription factor results in its activation and modulation of the transcriptional activity of a promoter containing response elements for the specific factor ( 48 ). Factors Affecting the Expression of MC2 Receptor Gene EFFECTS OF ACTH ON THE EXPRESSION OF MC2R Several studies have shown that the MC2R gene is up regulated by its own ligand, ACTH. Indeed, ligand-induced up-regulation of MC2R expression may be a crucial adaptive process directed towards optimizing adrenal responsiveness to ACTH. The effect of ACTH on MC2R expression is dependent on cAMP and probably mediated through AP-1( 49 ). EFFECTS OF GLUCOCORTICOID REGULATORY ELEMENTS (GRE) ON THE MC2R GENE Glucocorticoids are major regulators of MC2 expression. Glucocorticoids exert an enhancing effect on basal, ACTH- and cAMP-induced MC2 expression. Steroidogenic Factor-1 (SF-1) is an orphan nuclear receptor. The MC2R gene contains three SF-1 binding sites in the proximity of the transcription initiation site. In addition to its effect on the transcription of the MC2R gene, SF-1 also affects the transcription of genes involved in steroidogenesis in the adrenals and the gonads as well as the organogenesis of both glands. SF-1 knockout mice lack adrenal glands and gonads. SF-1 is also essential for the compensatory adrenal growth following unilateral adrenalectomy. In steroidogenesis, SF-1 affects the transcription of CYP11A1 gene which encodes the P450scc cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme, the first step in steroidogenesis. Several SF-1-binding sites on the promoter of CYP11A1 modulate its transcription rate ( 50 ). DAX-1 (Dosage-sensitive sex reversal, Adrenal hypoplasia congenital critical region on the X chromosome, gene 1) is a transcription factor expressed in the adrenal gland and gonads. DAX-1 encodes an orphan member of the nuclear hormone receptor super family. DAX-1 inhibits SF-1-mediated steroidogenesis while its absence augments the adrenal responsiveness to ACTH most probably through an up-regulation of the MC2R transcription via SF-1. A cAMP-dependent PKA augments the SF-1-mediated induction of steroidogenesis. Generally speaking, DAX-1 is a suppressor of the transcription of several genes involved in the steroidogenic pathway. Indeed, inactivating mutations of DAX-1 results in the X-linked form of adrenal hypoplasia congenital (AHC) with associated hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. AHC presents as adrenal failure in early infancy, although a wide range of
