ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


mutations of DAX-1 results in the X-linked form of adrenal hypoplasia congenital (AHC) with associated hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. AHC presents as adrenal failure in early infancy, although a wide range of phenotypic expressions have been reported. Interestingly, the MC2 promoter contains several DAX-1 sites. As expected, DAX-1 suppresses the expression of the MC2 gene when transfected in adrenocortical Y-1 cells. In adrenocortical tumors there is a distinct negative correlation between DAX-1 and MC2 ( 51 - 52 ). Steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) does not appear to affect the MC2 promoter but regulates steroidogenesis, an effect augmented by ACTH via the MC2R. StAR promotes intra-mitochondrial cholesterol transfer in the adrenal cortical cells. StAR is thus the only major adrenal transcription factor which has not been associated with the expression of the MC2R gene ( 53 ). The activator protein-1 regulatory element (AP-1) is the product of the hetero-dimerization of the proto-oncogenes Fos and Jun following activation of several signalling pathways including that of PKA and PKC. Two AP-1 binding sites have been identified upstream of the MC2R. Deletion of the AP-1 binding sites on MC2 gene abolishes the stimulatory effect of cAMP. The effect of glucocorticoids and Angiotensin II on the expression of MC2R gene is carried out via a glucocorticoid-mediated inhibition of AP-1 binding sites on the ACTH receptor promoter. The angiotensin II protein stimulates the expression of MC2R gene in the adrenal cortex. Promoter deletion studies revealed that the two AP1 binding elements on MC2 promoter mediate the Angiotensin II stimulatory signals. Indeed, Angiotensin II rapidly activates Fos and Jun to promote MC2 transcription. The MC2 Accessory Proteins MRAP and MRAP2 For many years’ researchers, in the field of adrenal physiology, suspected that an unidentified adrenal factor was needed in order for the effect of ACTH to take place. Indeed, ACTH was effective only in transfected cells with the MC2R of the adrenal lineage. In other transfected cell with the MC2R, ACTH was ineffective i.e. a crucial factor present only in cells of adrenal lineage was necessary for the effect of ACTH to take place. It was ssubsequently found that MC2R depended, for its trafficking to cell surface, on a small single trans-membrane domain protein the malfunction of which caused a clinical syndrome indistinguishable from that caused by the absence or malfunction of the MC2R. This was shown to be the MC2 accessory protein (MRAP). MRAP is peculiar in
