ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


caused a clinical syndrome indistinguishable from that caused by the absence or malfunction of the MC2R. This was shown to be the MC2 accessory protein (MRAP). MRAP is peculiar in that it naturally exists as an antiparallel homodimer formation (MRAPalpha and MRAPbeta) each pair associated with the MC2R. Later it was also shown that the MRAP protein is necessary not only for the trafficking of the receptor to cell surface, but also for conformational changes necessary for the binding of the ACTH ligand either by influencing ACTH ligand binding or by facilitating the interaction of the Gas protein with the receptor, or both ( 54 ). The MPAR gene is mapped in human chromosome 21 (C21orf61) corresponding to a murine adipocyte transmembrane protein. Two isoforms have been identified each conferring a different affinity of the MC2 receptor towards ACTH, thus explaining the observed two subpopulations of MC2 receptor as far as its affinity towards the ACTH is concerned (see above). MRAP has no effect on the trafficking of either MC1R or MC3R, while it may suppress the trafficking of MC4R and MC5R to cell surface ( 55 - 60 ) ( Figure 4 ). Figure 4. ACTH receptor protein expression. MC2R mRNA is translated at the endoplasmic reticulum and is unable to traffic beyond this point to the plasma membrane. MRAP mRNA is translated and adopts an anti-parallel homodimeric conformation at the endoplasmic reticulum. Only the MRAP-MC2R membrane complex is competent to bind ACTH at physiological concentrations and to generate a steroidogenic signal. THE FAMILIAL GLUCOCORTICOID DEFICIENCY (FGD) SYNDROMES Hereditary ACTH resistance syndromes encompass the genetically heterogeneous isolated or Familial Glucocorticoid Deficiency (FGD) and the distinct clinical entity known as Triple A syndrome. The molecular basis of adrenal resistance to ACTH includes defects in ligand binding, MC2R/MRAP receptor trafficking, cellular redox balance, cholesterol synthesis, and sphingolipid metabolism. Biochemically, this is manifested by ACTH excess in the setting of hypocortisolemia. FGD is an autosomal recessive condition characterized by the presence of isolated glucocorticoid deficiency, classically in the setting of preserved mineralocorticoid secretion. Primarily there are three established subtypes of the disease: FGD 1, FGD2 and FGD3 corresponding to mutations in the MRC2R (25%), Melanocortin 2 receptor accessory protein MRAP (20%), and Steroidogenic acute regulatory protein STAR (5–10%), respectively. Mutations in these 3 genes account for approximately half of cases. Whole exome sequencing in patients negative for MC2R, MRAP and STAR mutations,
