ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


Steroidogenic acute regulatory protein STAR (5–10%), respectively. Mutations in these 3 genes account for approximately half of cases. Whole exome sequencing in patients negative for MC2R, MRAP and STAR mutations, identified mutations in mini-chromosome maintenance (MCM), nicotinamide nucleotide transhydrogenase (NNT), thioredoxin reductase 2 (TXNRD2), cytochrome p450scc (CYP11A1), and sphingosine 1-phosphate lyase (SGPL1), accounting for a further 10% of FGD. These novel genes have linked replicative and oxidative stress and altered redox potential as a mechanism of adrenocortical damage. However, a genetic diagnosis is still unclear in about 40% of cases ( 61 ). The FGD syndromes are autosomal recessive diseases characterized by atrophic zona fasciculata and zona reticularis, accompanied by low plasma cortisol levels and elevated ACTH. FGD syndromes exhibit an isolated defect in the endogenous production of cortisol without a parallel defect in the production of aldosterone. The cortisol insufficiency is usually accompanied by hyperpigmentation of the skin and of the mucous membranes due to the high levels of circulating ACTH activating the cutaneous MCR. Recurrent episodes of hypoglycemia are also present due to the lack of the counter-regulatory effect of cortisol on the hypoglycemic effects of insulin. The affected neonates present with failure to thrive, repeated episodes of hypoglycaemia, and seizures. Several types of FGD are recognized as per the pathophysiological defect on the ACTH receptor pathway. The type 1 FGD and type 2 FGD cause ‘pure’ isolated glucocorticoid deficiency, however over the last 25 years it has become clear that glucocorticoid deficiency itself may occur as part of a syndrome with a much more complex clinical picture. The defect in type 1 FGD is localized in the MC2R gene usually consisting of single point mutations. These inactivating mutations of the MC2R may result from the introduction of a stop codons within the coding region of the ACTH receptor, frameshift mutations, and mutations that cause single amino acid substitutions and structural disruption of the ACTH receptor affecting the ligand-binding domain resulting in loss of ligand-binding capability. Type 1 FGD represents approximately 25-40% of all patients with FGD. The defect in type 2 FGD appears to be due to mutations in the MC2R accessory protein, the MRAP mentioned above. It represents around 15-20% of all cases of. At least 8 different mutations in MRAP have been identified in type 2 FGD patients. Most mutations of MRAP cluster around the first coding exon (exon 3) especially at the splice donor
