ACTH Action on the Adrenals
KEYWORDS: acth, adrenal, pubmed, receptor, protein, cells, mutations, gene, endocrinol, free, cell, syndrome, production, receptors, regulation


8 different mutations in MRAP have been identified in type 2 FGD patients. Most mutations of MRAP cluster around the first coding exon (exon 3) especially at the splice donor site. The same mutation has been found in genetically unrelated individuals suggesting that this is a true ‘hot spot’ area for mutation. The other common site for mis-sense mutations is in the initiator methionine. This mutation prevents translation of the full-length protein. The next in-frame methionine is at position 60 which, if translated, would result in a severely truncated protein. The adrenal histology of FGD type 2 is typical of all other cases of FGD. They are characterized by a relatively preserved glomerulosa cell layer with highly atrophic and disorganized fasciculata and reticularis cell layers. The defect in type 3 FGD concerns the regulatory alacrima-achalasia-adrenal insufficiency neurologic defect (ALADIN) protein causing the Allgrove syndrome. The defects in the remaining cases of FGD are attributed in problems within the MC2R signaling transduction. Mutations in the intracellular portion of the MC2R may result in the loss of its signal transduction properties. Absence of a biological response to ACTH may thus be due to impaired binding of ACTH to its receptors or inability of the bound ACTH to initiate its post-receptor effects ( 62 - 65 ). THE ACHALASIA-ADDISONIANISM-ALACRIMA (TRIPLE A) OR ALLGROVE SYNDROME The triple A syndrome is caused by mutations in the gene encoding the regulatory protein ALADIN, a product of the ADRACALIN gene. ALADIN is a WD-repeat regulatory protein, part of the nuclear pore complex. It is crucial for the development of the peripheral and central nervous system. Mutations of ALADIN lead to a syndrome characterized by achalasia, alacrima, and addisonism ( 66 - 72 ). The underlining pathology of this syndrome appears to be a systemic and progressive loss of cholinergic function. Alacrima is often manifested at birth, the patients exhibiting conjunctival irritation which if not treated leads to severe keratopathy and corneal dehydration-induced ulcerations. Alacrimia is diagnosed by Schirmer's test. Achalasia is a neuromuscular disorder of the esophagus resulting in elevated lower esophageal sphincter pressure and lack of peristaltic waves of the esophagus, and recurrent lung infections resulting in respiratory failure. The neurologic manifestations of the disease include motor neuron disease-like presentations, motor-sensory or autonomic neuropathy, optic atrophy, cerebellar ataxia, Parkinsonism, and mild dementia. The autonomic nervous system dysfunction may be manifested as papillary abnormalities, an abnormal reaction
