Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


ABSTRACT The two major goals of the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia are the prevention of cardiovascular disease and pancreatitis. Here we discuss the drugs used for the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia: (niacin, fibrates, omega-3-fatty acids, and apo CIII inhibitors. Niacin decreases total cholesterol, TGs (20-50% decrease), LDL-C, and Lp(a). Additionally, niacin decreases small dense LDL resulting in a shift to large, buoyant LDL particles. Moreover, niacin increases HDL-C. Skin flushing, insulin resistance, and other side effects have limited the use of niacin. The enthusiasm for niacin has greatly decreased with the failure of AIM-HIGH and HPS-2 Thrive to decrease cardiovascular events when niacin was added to statin therapy. The omega-3-fatty acids eicosapentaenoic acid (C20:5n-3) (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (C22:6n-3) (DHA) lower TGs by 10-50% but do not affect total cholesterol, HDL-C, or Lp(a). LDL-C may increase with EPA + DHA when the TG levels are markedly elevated (>500mg/dL). EPA alone does not increase LDL-C. Omega-3-fatty acids have few side effects, drug interactions, or contraindications. Numerous studies of low dose omega-3-fatty acids on cardiovascular outcomes have failed to demonstrate a benefit. However, in the JELIS, REDUCE-IT, and RESPECT-EPA trials high doses of EPA alone reduced cardiovascular events while in the STRENGTH and OMEMI trials high doses of EPA+DHA did not reduce cardiovascular events. Fibrates reduce TG levels by 25-50% and increase HDL-C by 5-20%. The effect on LDL-C is variable. If the TG levels are very high (>500mg/dL), fibrate therapy may result in an increase in LDL-C, whereas if TGs are not markedly elevated fibrates decrease LDL-C by 10-30%. Fibrates also reduce apolipoprotein B, LDL particle number, and non-HDL-C and there may be a shift from small dense LDL towards large LDL particles. Fibrates do not have any major effects on Lp(a). Monotherapy with fibrates appears to reduce cardiovascular events particularly in patients with high TG and low HDL-C levels. In contrast, in the ACCORD LIPID and PROMINENT trials the addition of fibrates to statin therapy did not reduce cardiovascular disease, which has reduced the enthusiasm for using fibrates to reduce cardiovascular disease. In patients with diabetes fibrates appear to slow the progression of microvascular disease (retinopathy, nephropathy, and amputations, ulcers, and gangrene. Antisense oligonucleotides, volanesorsen and olezarsen, inhibit the production of apolipoprotein C-III and decrease TG levels in patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia including patients with the familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS). Studies also suggest that apo CIII inhibitors reduce episodes of pancreatitis in
