Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


C-III and decrease TG levels in patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia including patients with the familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS). Studies also suggest that apo CIII inhibitors reduce episodes of pancreatitis in patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia. Patients with FCS have also reported that apo C-III inhibitors improved symptoms and reduced interference of FCS with work/school responsibilities. Of concern has been decreases in platelet levels with 47% of patients treated with volanesorsen developing platelet counts below100 x 109/L, a side effect that is not observed with olezarsen. Thus, a number of drugs are available for the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia and may be employed when lifestyle changes are not sufficient. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The two primary goals of the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia are the prevention of cardiovascular disease and the prevention of pancreatitis. The evaluation and guidelines for the management of hypertriglyceridemia are discussed in detail in the Endotext chapters “Risk of Fasting and Non-Fasting Hypertriglyceridemia in Coronary Vascular Disease and Pancreatitis” ( 1 ) and Pancreatitis Secondary to Hypertriglyceridemia ( 2 ), and the approach to evaluating a patient with hypertriglyceridemia is discussed in the Endotext chapter “Approach to the Patient with Dyslipidemia” ( 3 ). The treatment of hypertriglyceridemia by diet and weight loss are discussed in detail in the Endotext chapters “The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels” and “Obesity and Dyslipidemia” ( 4 , 5 ). Lifestyle changes are recommended as the first line for hypertriglyceridemia therapy, but drug therapy is often required. In this chapter we will discuss the drugs used for the treatment of elevated plasma TG levels. Statins, ezetimibe, PCSK9 inhibitors, bempedoic acid, lomitapide, mipomersen, and evinacumab, which are primarily used to lower LDL-C, are discussed in the chapter “Cholesterol Lowering Drugs” ( 6 ). NIACIN Introduction Niacin was the first drug approved to treat dyslipidemia. In 1955, Altschul et al showed that pharmacologic doses of niacin decreased plasma cholesterol levels ( 7 ). Several forms of niacin are available for clinical use. Immediate release niacin has a short duration of action and is typically given two or three times per day with meals, whereas sustained release niacin and extended-release niacin are once a day drugs usually given at bedtime. The extended release form of niacin exhibits release rates that are intermediate between immediate release niacin and
