Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


to Ezetimibe/Statin Therapy on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels View in own window Change in Lipids with Addition of Niacin 2000mg/day to Ezetimibe/Simvastatin 10/20mg/day LDL-C 4.8% Decrease HDL-C 21.5% Increase TG 17.6% Decrease Non-HDL-C 7.3% Decrease In patients with marked hypertriglyceridemia combining niacin with other drugs that also lower plasma TGs can be considered. Sixty patients with the metabolic syndrome were randomized to 16 weeks of treatment with placebo, omega-3-fatty acids (Lovaza 4 g/day), extended release niacin (2 g/day), or both drugs in combination ( 18 ). In the niacin group TGs decreased by 30%, in the omega-3-fatty acids group by 22%, and in the combination group by 42% compared to the placebo group. Of note, the beneficial effects of niacin on decreasing LDL-C and non-HDL-C levels were blunted by omega-3-fatty acids, which are known to raise LDL-C levels in patients with marked hypertriglyceridemia (see below). These results show that the combination of niacin and fish oil will lower TG levels more than either drug individually but at the expense of diminishing the effect of niacin on LDL and non-HDL-C levels. Surprisingly there are few large, randomized trials examining the effect of combination therapy with niacin + fibrate vs. monotherapy. One very small trial reported that while both niacin monotherapy and bezafibrate monotherapy were effective in lowering serum TGs there was no statistically significant added benefit of combination therapy in reducing serum TG levels ( 19 ). However, a larger trial in HIV+ patients reported that the combination of niacin and fenofibrate was better at lowering TGs and non-HDL-C and increasing HDL-C levels than monotherapy with either niacin or fenofibrate ( 20 ). It would be informative if additional trials of combination therapy were carried out in patients with marked hypertriglyceridemia that can often be difficult to control with lifestyle changes and monotherapy. Mechanisms Accounting for the Niacin Induced Lipid Effects TRIGLYCERIDES Early studies demonstrated that niacin inhibited the release of free fatty acids from cultured adipocytes and decreased circulating free fatty acid levels ( 21 - 23 ). The ability of niacin to inhibit adipose tissue lipolysis is mediated by the activation of GPR109A (hydroxycarboxylic acid 2 receptor), a G protein-coupled receptor that is highly expressed in adipose tissue ( 23 - 25 ). It was initially thought that the decrease in plasma TGs induced by niacin therapy was due to niacin inhibiting lipolysis in adipose tissue resulting in a
