Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


23 - 25 ). It was initially thought that the decrease in plasma TGs induced by niacin therapy was due to niacin inhibiting lipolysis in adipose tissue resulting in a decrease in the transport of fatty acids to the liver leading to the decreased availability of fatty acids for hepatic TG synthesis. However, studies have shown that while niacin acutely decreases plasma free fatty acid levels this inhibition is not sustained ( 26 ). Additionally, studies in mice lacking GPR109A have shown that niacin does not inhibit lipolysis but still decreases plasma TG and LDL-C levels ( 27 ). Moreover, studies in humans using GPR109A agonists lowered plasma free fatty acid levels but did not cause the expected effects on plasma TGs and LDL-C ( 27 ). Thus, the effects of niacin on adipose tissue lipolysis are no longer thought to mediate the niacin induced decrease in plasma TG levels. Niacin has been shown to inhibit diglycerol acyltransferase 2 (DGAT2) activity in the liver ( 23 , 28 ). DGAT2 is the key enzyme that catalyzes the final step in TG synthesis. Inhibition of DGAT2 will reduce hepatic TG synthesis and the availability of TG for VLDL assembly and secretion ( 23 ). A decrease in TG will result in an increase in apolipoprotein B degradation in the liver. Kinetic studies in humans have shown that treatment with niacin decreases VLDL TG production ( 29 , 30 ). In addition, in animal models, niacin reduces the hepatic expression of apolipoprotein C-III, which could result in the accelerated clearance of TG rich lipoproteins ( 31 ). Whether this plays a significant role in mediating the decrease in plasma TG levels induced by niacin therapy remains to be determined. LOW DENSITY LIPOPROTEIN The decrease in plasma LDL-C with niacin therapy is thought to be secondary to a reduction in VLDL and LDL formation and secretion by the liver ( 23 ). HIGH DENSITY LIPOPROTEIN There are multiple potential mechanisms by which niacin may increase HDL-C levels. Some of these changes may be anti-atherogenic while others may be pro-atherogenic. One hypothesis for the increase in HDL induced by niacin therapy is a decrease in the surface expression of hepatocyte beta chain ATP synthase, a receptor that has been proposed to be involved in the uptake of HDL particles by the liver ( 32 ). Studies have further shown that niacin inhibits HDL protein
