Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


a receptor that has been proposed to be involved in the uptake of HDL particles by the liver ( 32 ). Studies have further shown that niacin inhibits HDL protein degradation by cultured hepatocytes but does not inhibit the selective uptake of cholesterol esters carried in HDL ( 23 , 33 ). Some kinetic studies have shown that niacin decreases HDL and apolipoprotein A1 fractional catabolic rate ( 34 , 35 ). In contrast, other kinetic studies have shown that niacin increase apolipoprotein AI production ( 36 ). In addition, in monocytes, niacin also increased the expression of ABCA1 and CD36 resulting in an increase in cholesterol efflux to HDL, which would increase HDL-C levels and likely have anti-atherogenic effects ( 37 ). Similarly, in vitro studies suggest that niacin may increase the transport of cholesterol and phospholipids via ABCA1 from the liver to lipid poor apolipoprotein A1 particles thereby decreasing the clearance of apolipoprotein A1, which might not be anti-atherogenic ( 23 , 38 ). Finally, decreasing plasma TG levels may result in a reduction in CETP mediated exchange of TGs on VLDL for cholesterol on HDL leading to an increase in HDL-C levels. Additionally, studies have shown that niacin decreases the expression of CETP ( 39 ). LIPOPROTEIN(a) Niacin decreases the synthetic rate of Lp(a) but does not increase Lp(a) catabolism ( 40 , 41 ). In cell culture and animal studies niacin has been shown to decrease the expression of apo (a) ( 42 ). Pharmacokinetics Oral niacin is well absorbed with immediate release niacin resulting in a rapid increase in plasma levels while extended release and sustained release niacin result in a delayed peak in plasma levels. Niacin undergoes metabolism in the liver by two primary pathways; conjugation or amidation ( 8 , 43 ). The conjugative pathway is low affinity and high capacity that metabolizes niacin to nicotinuric acid while the amidation pathway is high affinity and low capacity that converts niacin into several oxidative-reductive intermediates, which can induce hepatic toxicity ( 8 , 43 ) ( Figure 1 ). The clinical importance is that immediate release niacin results in high levels of niacin and therefore is primarily metabolized by the conjugative pathway (low affinity, high capacity), which does not result in toxic intermediates that can cause liver damage. In contrast, sustained release niacin results in lower levels of niacin for a longer period and
