Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


the beneficial effect of niacin on cardiovascular events and total mortality was not diminished, even among those with one hour plasma glucose levels > 220mg/dL ( 46 ). Moreover, the beneficial effects of niacin on recurrent myocardial infarction and total mortality were similar in patients with or without the metabolic syndrome at baseline ( 47 ). These results demonstrate that immediate release niacin monotherapy decreases recurrent atherosclerotic cardiovascular events in a broad spectrum of patients with pre-existing cardiovascular disease (secondary prevention). COMBINATION WITH FIBRATES In the Stockholm Ischemic Heart Disease Secondary Prevention Study survivors of a myocardial infarction below 70 years of age were randomized to a control group (n = 276) (no placebo) and a group treated with clofibrate (2 grams) and immediate release nicotinic acid (up to 3 grams) (n = 279) ( 48 ). Serum cholesterol and TG were lowered by 13% and 19%, respectively, in the treatment group compared to the control group. Recurrent myocardial infarction was reduced by 50% within one year ( 49 ). Total mortality was decreased by 26% in the group treated with clofibrate + niacin (p< 0.05) while ischemic heart disease mortality was decreased by 36% (p< 0.01). Notably, the benefit of clofibrate + niacin was only observed in patients with a baseline TG level > 143mg/dL. In the age of statins, the clinical implications of this early study are unclear. COMBINATION WITH STATINS The AIM-HIGH trial was designed to determine if the addition of Niaspan, an extended-release form of niacin, to aggressive statin therapy would result in a further reduction in cardiovascular events in patients with pre-existing cardiovascular disease ( 50 ). In this trial 3,314 patients were randomized to extended-release Niaspan (1500-2000mg/day) vs. placebo that contained 100-150mg of immediate release niacin. On trial, LDL-C levels were in the 60-70mg/dL range in both groups. As expected, HDL-C levels were increased in the Niaspan treated group (approximately 44mg/dL vs. 38mg/dL), while TGs were decreased (approximately 121mg/dL vs. 155mg/dL). However, there were no differences in the primary endpoint between the control and Niaspan treated groups (Primary endpoint consisted of the first event of death from coronary heart disease, nonfatal myocardial infarction, ischemic stroke, hospitalization for an acute coronary syndrome, or symptom-driven coronary or cerebral revascularization). There were also no differences in secondary endpoints except for a possible increase in strokes in the Niaspan treated group. The addition of Niaspan to statin therapy
