Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


or cerebral revascularization). There were also no differences in secondary endpoints except for a possible increase in strokes in the Niaspan treated group. The addition of Niaspan to statin therapy did not result in a significant increase in either muscle or liver toxicity. Thus, this study does not provide support for the addition of niacin to statins. However, most of the patients included in this study did not have a lipid profile that one would typically consider treating with niacin therapy. In the subset of patients with TG > 198mg/dL and HDL-C < 33mg/dL Niaspan treatment showed a trend towards benefit (hazard ratio 0.74; p=0.073), suggesting that if the appropriate patient population was studied the results may have been different ( 51 ). HPS 2 Thrive also studied the effect of niacin added to statin therapy ( 52 ). This trial utilized extended-release niacin (2000mg/day) combined with laropiprant, a prostaglandin D 2 receptor antagonist, which reduces the flushing side effect of niacin treatment. HPS 2 Thrive was a very large trial with over 25,000 patients randomized to either niacin therapy or placebo. As in the AIM HIGH study, the baseline LDL-C levels were low at 63mg/dL, the HDL-C levels were 44mg/dL, and the TGs were 125mg/dL at baseline. As expected, niacin therapy resulted in a modest reduction in LDL-C (10mg/dL), a modest increase in HDL-C (6mg/dL), and a marked reduction in TGs (33mg/dL) compared to placebo. However, despite these lipid changes there were no significant differences in major cardiovascular events between the niacin and control group (risk ratio 0.96 CI 0.90- 1.03). It is unknown whether laropiprant, the prostaglandin D 2 receptor antagonist, might have effects that worsen atherosclerosis and increase event rates. Mice deficient in the prostaglandin D2 receptor have been noted to have an increase in atherogenesis in response to angiotensin II ( 53 ). Similar to the AIM-HIGH study, the group of patients included in the HPS 2 Thrive trial may not have been the ideal patient population to study for the beneficial effects of niacin treatment added to statin therapy. Ideally, patients with high TGs and high non-HDL-C levels coupled with low HDL-C levels should be studied. Thus, these two studies have failed to demonstrate that adding niacin to statin therapy results in a decrease in cardiovascular events. It should be recognized that both the AIM-HIGH study and the HPS-2 Thrive study had limitations. First, the
