Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


adding niacin to statin therapy results in a decrease in cardiovascular events. It should be recognized that both the AIM-HIGH study and the HPS-2 Thrive study had limitations. First, the patient populations that were included in these studies were not ideal as the TG and non-HDL-C levels were not elevated in a range that one would usually consider adding niacin therapy. Second, in both trials a significant percentage of patients stopped niacin therapy (AIM-HIGH 25.4% discontinued niacin; HPS-2 Thrive 25.4% discontinued niacin). Third, the duration of these studies was relatively short, and it is possible that the beneficial effects of niacin take longer to occur (AIM-HIGH 3 years; HPS-2 Thrive 3.9 years). Fourth, in the HPS-2 Thrive it is possible, as noted earlier, that laropiprant had adverse effects that increased the risk of cardiovascular events. Fifth, in the AIM-HIGH study the placebo contained a low dose of niacin, which may have resulted in beneficial effects. Finally, both of these trials used extended-release niacin, whereas the Coronary Drug Project and the Stockholm Ischemic Heart Disease Secondary Prevention Study used immediate release niacin. It is possible that these different formulations of niacin have different effects on cardiovascular events. Additional studies are required to definitively determine the effect of niacin added to a statin therapy on cardiovascular events. Effect of Niacin on Atherosclerosis Many of the initial niacin therapy imaging studies combined niacin with other drugs and compared these combinations vs. placebo. These studies showed that niacin in combination with other drugs reduced the progression and/or increased the regression of atherosclerosis. However, because of the use of other drugs it is impossible to determine if niacin therapy per se was beneficial ( Table 5 ). Table 5. Niacin Angiography Imaging Studies View in own window Combination Studies Drugs Cholesterol Lowering Atherosclerosis Study (CLAS) ( 54 ) Niacin + colestipol vs. placebo Familial Atherosclerosis Treatment Study (FATS) ( 55 ) Niacin + colestipol or lovastatin + colestipol vs. placebo UCSF-SCORE ( 56 ) Niacin + colestipol +/- lovastatin vs. placebo +/- low dose colestipol HDL Atherosclerosis Study (HATS) ( 57 ) Niacin + simvastatin vs. placebo Armed Forces Regression Study ( 58 ) Niacin + gemfibrozil + cholestyramine vs. placebo Harvard Atherosclerosis Reversibility Project (HARP) ( 59 ) Niacin + pravastatin + cholestyramine + gemfibrozil as needed vs. placebo However, there are studies that compared niacin to placebo or other drugs added to standard
