Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


in side effects and these side effects are a major limitation of niacin therapy. SKIN FLUSHING This is a very common side effect and is characterized by redness and warmth due to vasodilation of the blood vessels in the skin ( 9 , 65 ). It is often most apparent in the head and neck region. Itching can occur and a tingling and burning sensation may also be noted. Niacin induced flushing is usually not accompanied by diaphoresis. The cutaneous flushing usually lasts for approximately one hour and in some patients it is extremely annoying. In a review of 30 studies, it was noted that flushing occurred in 85% of participants treated with immediate release niacin, 66% of participants treated with extended release niacin, and 26% of participants treated with slow release niacin ( 12 ). The occurrence of flushing is related to a rapid increase in plasma nicotinic acid levels, which differs depending upon the niacin preparation. Flushing was the primary reason that subjects discontinued niacin therapy during studies and with either immediate release or extended release niacin approximately 20% of study participants discontinue niacin, which is twice the rate of discontinuation observed in the placebo groups ( 12 ). Continuous administration of niacin for approximately one- week results in tachyphylaxis and flushing decreases. Unfortunately, if a patient skips taking niacin for a few days this tachyphylaxis is lost and the flushing returns. The mechanism for the niacin induced skin flushing has been partially elucidated ( 9 , 65 ). Niacin activates GPR109A in dermal Langerhan cells (macrophages in the skin), which leads to the increased production of prostaglandin D 2. Additionally, niacin activates GPR 109A in keratinocytes, which leads to the production of prostaglandin E 2. The prostaglandins then interact with prostaglandin receptors on blood vessels resulting in vasodilation and the flushing phenomena. Aspirin and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) taken prior to niacin administration can decrease flushing by inhibiting the synthesis of prostaglandins ( 9 , 66 ). Laropiprant decreases flushing by blocking the D prostanoid receptor ( 9 ). Since flushing is related to rapid increases in plasma nicotinamide levels taking immediate release niacin with food slows absorption and thereby reduces flushing. Extended-release niacin is typically taken at bedtime so that the flushing will occur when the patient is asleep. Conditions that predispose to cutaneous vasodilatation such as alcohol intake, hot liquids, spicy foods, or hot showers
