Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


at bedtime so that the flushing will occur when the patient is asleep. Conditions that predispose to cutaneous vasodilatation such as alcohol intake, hot liquids, spicy foods, or hot showers should be avoided. One should increase the dose of niacin slowly to reduce the severity of flushing reactions and allow tolerance to develop. HEPATIC TOXICITY Sustained release niacin has a much greater propensity to induce hepatic toxicity than other niacin preparations and therefore is no longer widely used ( 8 , 43 , 67 ). The explanation for this difference is due to the increased metabolism of sustained release niacin by the amidation pathway described in the pharmacokinetics section, which results in toxic compounds that injure the liver ( 8 , 43 ). Patients who have developed signs of liver toxicity on sustained release niacin can often be treated with immediate release niacin without developing liver problems ( 68 ). Extended-release niacin can induce liver dysfunction but the rate is much lower than sustained release niacin. Because of the potential for liver disease, serum transaminase levels (SGOT and SGPT) should be monitored before treatment begins, every 6 to 12 weeks for the first year, and periodically thereafter (e.g., at approximately 6-month intervals). It should be noted that there is some evidence that niacin may be beneficial for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) but further studies are required ( 69 ). MUSCLE SYMPTOMS Myalgias and myopathy have not been a significant adverse effect with niacin monotherapy ( 12 ). In combination with statins, an increased risk of muscle symptoms has been observed in some studies. In the HPS-2 Thrive study the combination of simvastatin and extended-release niacin increased the risk of myopathy four-fold (1.2% of patients on combined therapy) ( 52 ). Of note, this increase occurred predominantly in Chinese participants. In contrast, in the AIM-HIGH trial muscle related symptoms were not increased with the simvastatin + niacin combination ( 50 , 70 ). HYPERGLYCEMIA It has been recognized for many years that niacin induces insulin resistance ( 71 ). The mechanisms by which niacin induces insulin resistance are unknown but possible mechanisms include a rebound increase in free fatty acids with niacin therapy or the accumulation of diacylglycerol ( 30 , 72 ). A recent analysis of the AIM-HIGH trial demonstrated that in subjects with normal glucose metabolism, subjects with impaired fasting glucose, and subjects with diabetes, treatment with extended
