Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


, 72 ). A recent analysis of the AIM-HIGH trial demonstrated that in subjects with normal glucose metabolism, subjects with impaired fasting glucose, and subjects with diabetes, treatment with extended release niacin resulted in only small increases in fasting glucose levels but increased serum insulin levels due to an increase in insulin resistance ( 73 ). Additionally, there was an increased risk of progressing from normal to impaired fasting glucose in subjects treated with niacin in the AIM-HIGH trial (niacin 58.6% vs placebo 41.5%; P < .001) ( 73 ). A meta-analysis examined the effect of niacin therapy on the development of new onset diabetes ( 74 ). In 11 trials with 26,340 non-diabetic participants, niacin therapy was associated with a 34% increased risk of developing diabetes (RR of 1.34; 95% CIs 1.21 to 1.49). This increased risk results in one additional case of diabetes per 43 initially non-diabetic individuals who are treated with niacin for 5 years (0.47% ten-year risk or 4.7 per 1000 patient years). Results were similar in patients who were receiving niacin therapy in combination with statin therapy. Studies have shown that niacin is usually well tolerated in diabetic subjects who are in good glycemic control ( 75 , 76 ). In patients with poor glycemic control, niacin is more likely to adversely impact glucose levels. A meta-analysis of 7 studies with 838 patients with diabetes found that niacin therapy did not result in a significant increase in fasting glucose levels in short term studies but in long term studies there was a very small increase in fasting glucose levels (1.5mg/dL) that was not clinically significant ( 77 ). An important caveat is that in most of these trials adjustments in diabetes therapy were permitted, which could blunt worsening of glycemic control. In contrast to these findings, the HPS-2 Thrive Trial reported that in the 8,299 participants who had diabetes at the time of randomization, treatment with niacin–laropiprant was associated with a 55% increase in serious disturbances in diabetes control, most of which led to hospitalization (11.1% vs. 7.5%, P<0.001) ( 52 ). The extent to which the latter was due to laropiprant is unknown. Thus, care must be used in treating patients with diabetes with niacin. In patients in whom adjustments in diabetic therapy can easily be carried out the risk of adverse effects will likely be limited whereas in patients in whom adjustments in
