Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


niacin. In patients in whom adjustments in diabetic therapy can easily be carried out the risk of adverse effects will likely be limited whereas in patients in whom adjustments in diabetic therapy will be difficult the risks of niacin therapy are likely to be increased. Careful patient selection and education are important steps to reduce the risks of niacin therapy in patients with diabetes. Thus, while niacin therapy may adversely affect glucose homeostasis one needs to balance these adverse effects with the potential benefits of niacin therapy. One should note that in the Coronary Drug Project participants with abnormal glucose metabolism also demonstrated a decrease in cardiovascular events with niacin therapy ( 46 ). URIC ACID Niacin may increase uric acid levels by inhibiting the secretion of uric acid ( 9 , 78 ). In susceptible patients niacin therapy can precipitate gouty attacks ( 9 ). GASTROINTESTINAL SYMPTOMS Niacin therapy can induce heartburn, indigestion, nausea, diarrhea, and abdominal discomfort ( 9 ). High dose niacin is more likely to cause these gastrointestinal disturbances. The mechanism for these symptoms is not clear. MISCELLANEOUS Recent trials have reported an increased incidence of infections with niacin therapy ( 52 , 70 ). A trial of niacin in combination with laropiprant found increased bleeding ( 52 ). The increased bleeding could be due to the approximately 10% decrease in platelet levels that can occur with niacin (see Niaspan Package Insert). However, a very large observational study that compared rates of major gastrointestinal bleeding and intracranial hemorrhage in patients treated with niacin (>200,000 subjects) to propensity matched subjects on fenofibrate did not observe an increase in bleeding ( 79 ). Niacin has been reported to induce cystoid macular edema, which resolves when the drug is stopped ( 80 ). Contraindications There are a number of contraindications to niacin therapy ( Table 7 ). Table 7. Contraindications for Niacin Therapy View in own window Active gastritis or peptic ulcer disease Impaired liver function (elevated transaminases 2-3X the upper limit or cholestasis) Uncontrolled gout Pregnancy Lactation Poorly controlled diabetes Active bleeding Summary The enthusiasm for the use of niacin has greatly decreased with the failure of AIM-HIGH and HPS-2 Thrive to show a decrease in cardiovascular events when niacin was added to statin therapy. In the absence of definitive data showing benefits from niacin therapy when added to a statin it is hard to justify the use
