Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


when niacin was added to statin therapy. In the absence of definitive data showing benefits from niacin therapy when added to a statin it is hard to justify the use of this drug given the frequent side effects. The availability of ezetimibe, bempedoic acid, and PCSK9 inhibitors has greatly reduced the need to use niacin to lower LDL-C levels. Additionally, in patients with markedly elevated TG levels (>500mg/dL), niacin can be employed in combination with other drugs to reduce the risk of pancreatitis, but fibrates and omega-3-fatty acids are the initial choices. OMEGA-3-FATTY ACIDS (FISH OIL) Introduction The lipid lowering effects of fish oil are mediated by two omega-3-fatty acids; eicosapentaenoic acid (C20:5n-3) (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (C22:6n-3) (DHA). There are four prescription products approved by the FDA which contain various amounts of EPA and DHA ( Table 8 ). Lovaza (generic is available) and Omacor (Omacor is currently not available in the US but is available in other countries) contain a mixture of EPA and DHA fatty acid esters (ethyl esters), Vascepa contains only EPA fatty acid esters (ethyl esters), and Epanova contains a mixture of EPA and DHA free fatty acids (Epanova is currently not available in the US). Table 8. Prescription Omega-3-fatty acid products (data from package inserts) View in own window Generic Name Omega-3-ethyl esters Icosapent ethyl Omega-3-carboxylic acid Brand Name Lovaza or Omacor Vascepa Epanova EPA/capsule 0.465g 1.0g See below DHA/capsule 0.375g --- See below Daily Dose 4 capsules/day 4 capsules/day 2-4 capsules/day 1-gram capsules of Epanova contain at least 850mg of fish oil derived fatty acids including multiple omega-3-fatty acids with EPA and DHA being the most abundant. Fish oil is also sold as a food supplement. It should be recognized that dietary fish oil supplements are not approved by the FDA and quality control will not meet the same rigorous standards as prescription or over the counter drugs. The amount of EPA and DHA can vary greatly in these supplements and one needs to read the labels carefully, as products can contain less than 100mg of EPA/DHA per 1 gram capsule ( 81 ). It is helpful to have the patient bring their fish oil supplements to the clinic for verification of the actual amount of EPA and DHA in the product. Moreover, the amount of EPA and DHA indicated on the label may not be accurate ( 82 ). One needs to
