Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


actual amount of EPA and DHA in the product. Moreover, the amount of EPA and DHA indicated on the label may not be accurate ( 82 ). One needs to take a sufficient number of capsules to provide 2-4 grams of EPA/DHA per day to effectively lower plasma TG levels. Depending upon the fish oil supplement, the patient may be required to take a large number of capsules to obtain 2-4 grams of EPA/DHA per day. Furthermore, these supplements may contain other compounds in addition to omega-3-fatty acids, such as cholesterol, oxidized lipids, and saturated fatty acids. The major advantage of fish oil supplements is that they are much less expensive than prescription omega-3-fatty acid drugs. If one elects to use fish oil supplements, one should have the patient use a single brand to try to ensure as much consistency as possible. Some omega-3 supplements contain alpha linolenic acid (C18:3n-3) (ALA), a plant omega-3-fatty acid rather than EPA/DHA. ALA can be converted to EPA and DHA but the conversion is limited and hence it is ineffective in lowering plasma TG levels or altering other lipid or lipoprotein levels ( 83 ). Effect of Omega-3-Fatty Acids on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels Table 9. Effect of Fish Oil Supplements on Lipids and Lipoproteins View in own window Decreases TGs No Change in Total Cholesterol No Change in LDL-C; if TGs are very high may increase LDL-C No Change in HDL-C No Change in Lp(a); modest decrease in some studies Shift from Small Dense LDL to Large Buoyant LDL Several meta-analyses have examined the effect of fish oil supplements on lipid and lipoprotein levels. A meta-analysis by Eslick and colleagues of 47 studies with 16,511 participants found that fish oil supplements significantly decreased plasma TG levels by approximately 14% without resulting in clinically significant changes in total, LDL-C, or HDL-C levels ( 84 ). These authors also reported that the reduction in plasma TG levels was directly related to baseline plasma TG levels (i.e., the higher the baseline TG level the greater the reduction in TGs with fish oil). Additionally, the higher the dose of EPA/DHA, the greater the reduction in plasma TGs, with clinically significant reductions occurring with approximately 3.25 grams per day. A meta-analysis by Balk and colleagues of 21 studies also found minimal effects of fish oil supplements on total, LDL-C, and HDL-C levels (< 5% change) with significant decreases
