Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


day. A meta-analysis by Balk and colleagues of 21 studies also found minimal effects of fish oil supplements on total, LDL-C, and HDL-C levels (< 5% change) with significant decreases in plasma TG levels (most of the studies in this meta-analysis had at least a 15% decrease) ( 85 ). Similar to the meta-analysis by Eslick et al, the higher the baseline TG levels the greater the reduction in TG levels. Several meta-analyses have focused on specific patient populations. In a meta-analysis of patients with diabetes, twenty three trials with1075 participants were analyzed and similar to patients without diabetes the major effect of fish oil supplements was a reduction in plasma TG levels with no change in total cholesterol or HDL-C ( 86 ). A small increase in LDL-C was observed (4.3mg/dL). Of note, fish oil supplementation did not alter fasting glucose or glycated hemoglobin levels indicating that fish oil supplementation does not adversely affect glycemic control. In a meta-analysis that included patients with type 2 diabetes or impaired glucose metabolism a decrease in TGs was observed without significant changes in total cholesterol, LDL-C, or HDL-C levels ( 87 ). Again, no adverse effects on glycemic control were observed. In patients with end stage renal disease several meta-analyses have consistently shown a decrease in plasma TGs with fish oil administration but the effect on total, LDL-C, and HDL-C has been variable ( 88 - 90 ). This variability was likely due to the small changes that were observed. In patients with nephrotic syndrome a study has shown a reduction in plasma TGs and an increase in LDL-C levels without a change in total cholesterol or HDL-C levels ( 91 ). In patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, omega-3-fatty acids have also been shown to decrease plasma TG levels ( 92 ). Finally, In HIV infected subjects, fish oil supplementation was also effective in lowering plasma TG levels ( 93 , 94 ). Thus, fish oil supplementation in a variety of different patient populations lowers plasma TG levels. In patients with elevated TG levels treated with 3-4 grams of EPA/DHA one can expect an approximate 15-25% decrease. Total plasma cholesterol levels are usually not altered by fish oil supplementation. The exceptions are patients with high chylomicron and/or VLDL levels where a substantial portion of the plasma cholesterol is carried on these TG rich lipoproteins. Fish oil supplementation will decrease the levels
