Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


acids from adipose tissue to the liver, which will lead to a decreased quantity of fatty acids available for TG synthesis in the liver ( 113 ). This decrease in flux of free fatty acids is due to omega-3-fatty acids reducing hormone sensitive lipase mediated intracellular lipolysis in adipose tissue ( 113 ). It is likely that these and perhaps other factors will lead to the decreased availability of TGs resulting in a reduction in VLDL formation and secretion. In addition, the peroxidation of omega-3-fatty acids may stimulate the degradation of apolipoprotein B-100, which would provide another pathway that could contribute to a decrease in VLDL formation and secretion ( 116 ). While not the primary mechanism for the decrease in plasma TGs, studies have shown that omega-3-fatty acids may increase the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins ( 113 , 120 ). Post heparin lipoprotein lipase activity is not increased by omega-3-fatty acid administration but the lipolytic activity of non-stimulated plasma is enhanced ( 113 , 120 ). Additionally, apolipoprotein C-III levels are decreased with omega-3-fatty acid administration which could also contribute to an increase in the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins ( 121 - 124 ). The increase in LDL-C levels that occurs in patients with marked hypertriglyceridemia treated with omega-3-fatty acids is thought to be due to the enhanced conversion of VLDL to LDL ( 115 ). The increase in HDL-C observed in studies in patients with very high TG levels may be due to the increased clearance of TG rich lipoproteins. Pharmacokinetics and Drug Interactions Omega-3 ethyl esters and fatty acids are absorbed by the GI tract similar to other dietary lipids. It is worth noting that omega-3-free fatty acids (Epanova) are directly absorbed by the small intestine and are not dependent on pancreatic lipases for absorption. Thus, absorption of omega-3-fatty acids is not decreased in patients with pancreatic insufficiency and therefore may be preferred in patients with pancreatic disease. Additionally, the bioavailability of omega-3-fatty acids with a low fat diet was greater than omega-3-ethyl esters while there was little difference between these different formulations with a high fat diet ( 125 , 126 ). Drug interactions have not been seen with omega-3-fatty acids (Package Inserts for Lovaza, Vascepa, and Epanova). Effect of Low Dose Omega-3-Fatty Acids on Cardiovascular Outcomes Initial studies of the effect of low dose fish oil administration on cardiovascular outcomes were favorable, demonstrating
