Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


Lovaza, Vascepa, and Epanova). Effect of Low Dose Omega-3-Fatty Acids on Cardiovascular Outcomes Initial studies of the effect of low dose fish oil administration on cardiovascular outcomes were favorable, demonstrating a reduction in events including all-cause mortality. However, more recent studies have failed to confirm these favorable results. In these more recent studies the use of other drugs, such as statins, that reduce cardiovascular disease were more intensively utilized. The outcomes studies that will be described below were carried out with doses of EPA and DHA that are lower than the doses used to lower plasma TGs. We will limit our discussion to the administration of fish oil as a drug and not discuss diet studies, such as DART, which had patients increase fatty fish intake ( 127 , 128 ). 1. GISSI-Prevenzione trial was a randomized trial of 850-882mg of EPA and DHA ethyl esters per day in 11,323 participants with a recent myocardial infarction (< 3 months) for 3.5 years ( 129 ). The primary endpoint was death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, and stroke. No change in total cholesterol, LDL-C, or HDL-C was observed but plasma TG levels were decreased by 5%. Patients treated with EPA/DHA had a significant decreased risk of major cardiovascular events (RR 0.90), cardiac death (RR 0.78), and sudden death (RR 0.74). The decrease in sudden death occurred very quickly and was noted as early as 4 months after initiation of therapy. Interestingly, non-fatal cardiovascular events were not affected by EPA/DHA treatment (RR 0.98). The decrease in total mortality was driven by a reduction in sudden death suggesting an anti-arrhythmic effect of EPA/DHA. 2. GISSI-Heart Failure (GISSI-HF) trial was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in patients with chronic heart failure who were randomly assigned to 850-882mg of EPA and DHA ethyl esters per day (n=3,494) or placebo (n=3,481) ( 130 ). Patients were followed for a median of 3.9 years. Primary endpoints were time to death, and time to death or admission to the hospital for cardiovascular reasons. Omega-3-fatty acid treatment at these low doses resulted in a slight decrease in plasma TG levels with no change in total, LDL-C or HDL-C levels. In the omega-3-fatty acid group 27% patients died from any cause vs. 29% in the placebo group (HR 0.91; p=0.041). In the omega-3-fatty acid group 57% of patients died or were admitted to hospital for cardiovascular reasons vs. 59% in the placebo
