Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


The median duration of treatment was 4.7 years. The primary outcome was a composite of non-fatal myocardial infarction, stroke, or death from cardiovascular disease. Treatment with B vitamins or omega 3 fatty acids had no significant effect on major vascular events. 6. Origin was a double-blind study in 12,536 patients at high risk for cardiovascular disease who had impaired fasting glucose, impaired glucose tolerance, or diabetes ( 134 ). Patients were randomized to receive a 1-gram capsule containing at least 900mg of ethyl esters of omega-3 fatty acids (EPA 465mg and DHA 375mg) or placebo for approximately 6 years. The primary outcome was death from cardiovascular causes. TG levels were reduced by 14.5mg/dL in the group receiving omega-3-fatty acids compared to the placebo group (P<0.001), without a significant effect on other lipids. The incidence of the primary outcome was not significantly decreased among patients receiving omega-3-fatty acids as compared with those receiving placebo. The use of omega-3-fatty acids also had no significant effect on the rates of major vascular events, death from any cause, or death from arrhythmia. 7. Risk and Prevention Study was a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in 12,513 men and women with multiple cardiovascular risk factors or atherosclerotic vascular disease but not myocardial infarctions ( 135 ). Patients were randomly assigned to 1-gram daily omega-3 fatty acids (EPA and DHA content not <85%,) or placebo (olive oil) for 5 years. The initially specified primary end point was the rate of death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, and nonfatal stroke. At 1 year, after the event rate was found to be lower than anticipated, the primary end point was revised as time to death from cardiovascular causes or admission to the hospital for cardiovascular causes. Plasma TG levels decreased slightly more in the omega−3-fatty acid group than in those who received placebo (−28.2±1.3mg/dL vs. −20.1±1.3mg/dL; P<0.001). Total, LDL, and HDL-C levels were similar in the omega-3-fatty acid and placebo groups. No significant differences were observed between the omega-3-fatty acid group and placebo group for the primary endpoint or any of the secondary endpoints. 8. A Study of Cardiovascular Events in Diabetes (ASCEND) was a randomized, placebo controlled, double blind trial of 1-gram omega-3-fattys acids (400mg EPA and 300mg DHA ethyl esters) vs. olive oil placebo in 15,480 patients with diabetes without a history of cardiovascular disease (primary prevention trial) ( 136 ). The primary end point was serious vascular events (non-fatal
