Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


(EPA) per day or usual care in patients with stable coronary artery disease on statin therapy ( 145 ) . 3884 patients were enrolled and followed for 5 years. Baseline LDL-C levels were 80mg/dL, TG levels approximately 120mg/dL, and HDL-C levels 49mg/dL. The primary end point (cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal ischemic stroke, unstable angina pectoris, and coronary revascularization) occurred in 9.1% of the patients in the EPA group and 12.6% of the patients in the control group (HR 0.79; 95% CI 0.62-1.00; P=0.055). Of the primary endpoints only coronary revascularization was significantly reduced in the EPA group (4.2% versus 6.7%; HR 0.68; 95% CI 0.48–0.96); hard outcomes did not differ between groups. While this trial did not result in a statistically significant decrease in cardiovascular events it provides suggestive evidence that icosapent ethyl reduces cardiovascular events. As seen in other trials new-onset atrial fibrillation was significantly higher in the EPA group (3.1% versus 1.6%; P=0.017). Summary of Omega-3-Fatty Acid Clinical Outcome Trials 1. Low dose omega-3-fatty acids are not effective at decreasing cardiovascular outcomes. 2. High dose EPA (JELIS, REDUCE-IT, and RESPECT-EPA) reduced cardiovascular outcomes while high dose EPA+DHA (STENGTH and OMEMI) did not decrease cardiovascular outcomes. 3. The decrease in TG levels is not a major contributor to the beneficial effect of high dose EPA as the combination of high EPA+DHA lowers TG levels to the same degree as EPA alone without benefit. Additionally, the JELIS trial and RESPECT-EPA only lowered TG levels by 5-7% but nevertheless reduced cardiovascular events. It is likely that the beneficial effects of EPA seen in the JELIS, REDUCE-IT, and RESPECT-EPA trials are multifactorial with TG lowering making only a small contribution to the decrease in cardiovascular disease. Other actions of EPA, such as decreasing platelet function, anti-inflammation, decreasing lipid oxidation, stabilizing membranes, etc. could account for or contribute to the reduction in cardiovascular events ( 146 ). A large meta-analysis, excluding the REDUCE-IT trial, demonstrated that a 40mg/dL decrease in triglyceride levels resulted in a relative risk reduction of only 0.96 (4% decrease) indicating that one needs to markedly lower triglyceride levels to reduce cardiovascular events ( 147 ). 4. Whether EPA has special properties that resulted in the reduction in cardiovascular events in the REDUCE-IT trial or there were flaws in the trial design (the use of mineral oil as the placebo) is uncertain and debated. It should be noted
