Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


cardiovascular events in the REDUCE-IT trial or there were flaws in the trial design (the use of mineral oil as the placebo) is uncertain and debated. It should be noted that in the REDUCE-IT trial LDL-C and non-HDL-C levels were increased by approximately 10% in the mineral oil placebo group ( 139 ). Additionally, Apo B levels were increased by 7% (6mg/dL) by mineral oil ( 139 ). Finally, an increase in hsCRP (20-30%) and other biomarkers of atherosclerosis (oxidized LDL-C, IL-6, IL-1 beta, and lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2) were noted in the mineral oil group ( 139 , 141 ). In the STRENGTH trial there were no differences in LDL-C, Non-HDL-C, HDL-C, Apo B, or hsCRP levels between the treated vs. placebo groups ( 142 ). Whether EPA has special properties compared to DHA leading to a reduction in cardiovascular events or the mineral oil placebo resulted in adverse changes increasing ASCVD in the placebo resulting in an artifactual decrease in the EPA group is debated ( 148 , 149 ). Ideally, another large randomized cardiovascular trial with EPA ethyl ester (icosapent ethyl) (Vascepa) using a placebo other than mineral oil would help resolve this controversy. In the meantime, clinicians will need to use their clinical judgement on whether to treat patients with modest elevations in TG levels with EPA (icosapent ethyl; Vascepa) balancing the potential benefits of treatment vs. the potential side effects. 5. The JELIS and RESPECT-EPA trials were carried out in Japan and did not include a placebo control. Whether the results seen in these trials would occur in other patient populations is unknown. Additionally, the absence of a placebo group is not ideal. Side Effects Gastrointestinal side effects such as diarrhea, nausea, dyspepsia, abdominal discomfort, and eructation have been observed with fish oil therapy (Package Inserts for Lovaza, Vascepa, and Epanova). At very high doses, omega-3-fatty acids can inhibit platelets and prolong bleeding time. However, at the recommended doses this has not been a major clinical problem but nevertheless when patients are on anti-platelet drugs one should be alert for the possibility of bleeding problems (Package Inserts for Lovaza, Vascepa, and Epanova). Increased bleeding was noted in the REDUCE-IT trial in the patients treated with icosapent ethyl 4 grams/day (EPA) (see above discussion of this trial). A recent review found no evidence for discontinuing the use of omega-3 fatty acid treatment before invasive procedures or when
