Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


ethyl 4 grams/day (EPA) (see above discussion of this trial). A recent review found no evidence for discontinuing the use of omega-3 fatty acid treatment before invasive procedures or when given in combination with other agents that affect bleeding ( 150 ). As noted above an increase in atrial fibrillation was observed in the REDUCE-IT trial and RESPECT-EPA in the patients treated with icosapent ethyl (EPA) and in the STRENGTH trial and the OMEMI trial in the patients treated with EPA + DHA. Contraindications There are no contraindications to the use of omega-3-fatty acids. Lovaza, Omacor, and Vascepa are pregnancy category C drugs and they should only be used if the benefits to the mother outweigh the potential risks to the fetus. Conclusions Omega-3-fatty acids are effective drugs in reducing TG levels with few significant side effects (atrial fibrillation and bleeding), drug interactions, or contraindications. High dose EPA (4 grams/day) reduced cardiovascular disease events in the REDUCE-IT trial and a moderate dose of EPA (1.8 grams/day) reduced cardiovascular events in the JELIS and RESPECT-EPA trials but trials of EPA and DHA have not produced cardiovascular benefits. The basis for these differences is debated and discussed in the “Summary of Omega-3-Fatty Acid Clinical Outcome Trials” section above. Finally, omega-3-fatty acids are effective in lowering TGs in patients with marked hypertriglyceridemia and while not proven, it will likely reduce the risk of development of pancreatitis. FIBRATES Introduction The fibrate drug class includes clofibrate, gemfibrozil, fenofibrate, bezafibrate, ciprofibrate, and pemafibrate. Clofibrate was developed in the 1960s and was the first member of this class. Clofibrate is no longer available because of an increased risk of adverse effects. Gemfibrozil and fenofibrate are available in the United States while gemfibrozil, fenofibrate, bezafibrate, and ciprofibrate are available in Europe. Pemafibrate is available in Japan. All of the fibrates work via activation of the nuclear hormone receptor PPAR alpha. Effect of Fibrates on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels Table 12. Effect of Fibrates on Lipids and Lipoproteins View in own window Decreases TG Increases HDL-C Decreases LDL-C; if TGs Very High can Increase LDL-C Decreases Non-HDL-C Decreases Apolipoprotein B Decreases LDL Particle Number Shift Small Dense LDL to Large Buoyant LDL No Effect on Lp(a) Fibrates reduce fasting TG levels by 25-50% ( 151 - 153 ). The magnitude of the reduction in TGs is dependent on the baseline TG levels. Patients with marked elevations in TGs have
