Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


( 157 ) 31% Decrease No Change 6% Increase BIP Study Bezafibrate ( 158 ) 21% Decrease 7% Decrease 18% Increase Leader Study Bezafibrate ( 159 ) 23% Decrease 8% Decrease 8% Increase Field Study Fenofibrate ( 160 ) 29% Decrease 12% Decrease 5% Increase * The values are adjusted for changes in the placebo group. The different fibrates in general cause similar changes in lipid and lipoprotein levels. There are only a few comparative trials of fibrates comparing their effects on lipid and lipoprotein levels and these trials have been very small. Comparisons of ciprofibrate and gemfibrozil have not shown any major differences between these two fibrates ( 161 , 162 ). In contrast, two very small trials have compared gemfibrozil vs. fenofibrate and reported that fenofibrate was more efficacious in lowering LDL levels than gemfibrozil ( 163 , 164 ). In very rare instances fibrates can cause a paradoxical marked decrease in HDL-C levels ( 165 - 168 ). This rare paradoxical decrease in HDL-C typically occurs when fibrates are used in combination with a thiazolidinedione (rosiglitazone and pioglitazone) but can occur when fibrates are used alone or with ezetimibe ( 165 - 169 ). The decrease in HDL-C can be extreme with decreases of 50% to 88% reported and recovery to normal can take weeks after the fibrate is discontinued ( 166 ). The mechanism for this paradoxical effect is unknown. Effect of Fibrates in Combination with Other Lipid Lowering Drugs on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels STATINS Statins are the primary drugs used to treat most patients with dyslipidemia. Statins are very effective in lowering LDL-C levels but have only modest effects on TG and HDL-C levels. Therefore, it is appealing to add a fibrate to patients who on statin therapy have LDL-C levels at goal but still have elevated non-HDL-C and TG levels and decreased HDL-C levels. Therefore, there have been numerous studies examining the effect of the combination of statins and fibrates on lipid and lipoprotein levels. An example is the Safari Trial which compared the effect of simvastatin only (n=207) vs. simvastatin + fenofibrate (n=411) in patients with combined hyperlipidemia ( 170 ). The results of this trial are shown in table 15 . As anticipated, adding a fibrate results in a further lowering of LDL-C, non-HDL-C, and TG levels with a further increase in HDL-C. Table 15. Effect of Simvastatin Alone vs. Simvastatin
