Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


in reducing serum TG level although a large variance may have reduced the ability to detect statistically significant results ( 16 ). A larger trial in HIV+ patients reported that the combination of niacin and fenofibrate was better at lowering TGs and non-HDL-C and increasing HDL-C levels than monotherapy with either niacin or fenofibrate ( 17 ). It would be informative if additional trials of fibrate + niacin combination therapy were carried out in patients with marked hypertriglyceridemia that can often be difficult to control with lifestyle changes and monotherapy. FISH OIL In patients with TG levels > 500mg/dL the combination of fenofibrate 130mg per day and 4 grams of Lovaza (DHA and EPA) reduced TG levels to a greater extent than monotherapy with fenofibrate alone (7% decrease; P = 0.059) ( 103 ). Not unexpectedly, LDL levels were increased to a greater extent with combination therapy (9% increase; p= 0.03). When subjects who had received 8 weeks of fenofibrate monotherapy were treated with Lovaza (DHA and EPA) during the 8-week, open-label extension study TG levels were reduced by an additional 17.5% (P = 0.003). These results indicate that the addition of omega-3-fatty acids to fenofibrate will further decrease TG levels. Mechanisms Accounting for the Fibrate Induced Lipid Effects Fibrates are ligands that bind and activate PPAR alpha, a member of the family of nuclear hormone receptors that are activated by lipids ( 183 , 184 ). PPAR alpha is highly expressed in the liver and other tissues important in fatty acid metabolism. PPAR alpha forms a heterodimer with RXR and together the PPAR alpha:RXR complex when activated binds to the PPAR response elements in a large number of genes and regulates the expression of these genes ( 183 , 184 ). The natural ligands of PPAR alpha are fatty acid derivatives formed during lipolysis, lipogenesis, or fatty acid catabolism ( 183 , 184 ). TRIGLYCERIDES Fibrates lower plasma TG levels by decreasing VLDL production and by increasing the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins ( 185 , 186 ). The decrease in VLDL production is primarily due to PPAR alpha activation of the beta oxidation of fatty acids, which reduces the substrate available for the synthesis of TGs and the formation of VLDL ( 183 , 186 ). Additionally, a decrease in hepatic fatty acid synthesis may also contribute to the decrease in fatty acids ( 183 , 186 ).
