Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


formation of VLDL ( 183 , 186 ). Additionally, a decrease in hepatic fatty acid synthesis may also contribute to the decrease in fatty acids ( 183 , 186 ). The increased clearance of TG rich lipoproteins is due to PPAR alpha stimulating the transcription of lipoprotein lipase, the key enzyme that catabolizes the TGs carried by VLDL and chylomicrons ( 183 , 186 ). In addition, activation of PPAR alpha also inhibits the transcription of APO C-III, which inhibits lipoprotein lipase activity ( 183 , 186 ). A decrease in Apo C-III enhances the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins by increasing lipoprotein lipase activity. Notably, a decrease in Apo C-III also decreases TG levels in patients deficient in lipoprotein lipase indicating that there are multiple mechanisms for its effects on TG metabolism ( 187 ). Recent studies suggest that Apo C-III inhibits the uptake of TG rich lipoproteins into the liver by the LDL receptors/ LDLR-related protein 1 axis ( 188 ). PPAR alpha activation also increases the transcription of Apo A-V, which would also facilitate the activity of lipoprotein lipase ( 183 ). HIGH DENSITY LIPOPROTEINS The increase in HDL induced by fibrates is due to PPAR alpha activation stimulating Apo A-I and A-II transcription ( 183 , 186 ). This leads to the increased production of HDL ( 185 ). In addition, a decrease in TG rich lipoproteins may result in a reduction in CETP mediated transfer of cholesterol from HDL to VLDL and of TG from VLDL to HDL ( 186 ). This would lead to less TG enrichment of HDL and a decrease in the opportunity of hepatic lipase to remove TG leading to small HDL particles that may be rapidly catabolized. LOW DENSITY LIPOPROTEINS As noted above, the effect of fibrates on LDL-C levels is variable with increases in LDL seen in patients with high TG levels (>400mg/dL) and decreases in LDL-C levels in patients with lower TG levels. In patients with modest elevations in plasma TG levels the clearance of LDL is enhanced ( 185 ). The mechanism for this enhanced clearance could be due to a decrease in Apo C-III, as increased levels of this protein inhibits LDL receptor activity ( 188 , 189 ). Additionally, the shift from small dense LDL to large buoyant LDL would enhance the uptake of LDL by the LDL receptor ( 190 ). In patients with
