Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


of fenofibrate therapy was seen only in those subjects less than 65 years of age. The beneficial effects of fenofibrate in this study may have been blunted by the increased use of statins in the placebo group, which reduced the differences in lipid levels between the placebo and fenofibrate groups. If one adjusted for the addition of lipid-lowering therapy, fenofibrate reduced the risk of coronary heart disease events by 19% (p=0.01) and of total cardiovascular disease events by 15% (p=0.004). Additionally, many patients in the Field trial did not have elevations in TGs and decreased HDL-C levels. In a post hoc analysis, patients with high TGs 200mg/dL) and low HDL levels (<40mg for men and <50mg/dL for women) derived greater benefit from fenofibrate therapy ( 199 ). 8. Summary: While the above monotherapy fibrate studies suggest that fibrates reduce cardiovascular event, particularly in patients with high TG and low HDL levels, the results are not as robust or consistent as the beneficial effects of statins on cardiovascular outcomes ( 6 ). Effect of Combination Therapy of Fibrates and Statins on Cardiovascular Outcomes Given the marked benefits of statin therapy, it is essential to know if adding fibrates to statin therapy further reduces cardiovascular events. Two large trials described below have addressed this key question. 9. ACCORD LIPID Trial: The ACCORD-LIPID Trial was designed to determine if the addition of fenofibrate to aggressive statin therapy would result in a further reduction in cardiovascular disease in patients with Type 2 diabetes ( 200 ). In this trial, 5,518 patients on statin therapy were randomized to placebo or fenofibrate therapy. The patients had diabetes for approximately 10 years and either had pre-existing cardiovascular disease or were at high risk for developing cardiovascular disease. During the trial, LDL-C levels were approximately 80mg/dL. There was only a small difference in HDL-C with the fenofibrate groups having a mean HDL-C of 41.2mg/dL while the control group had an HDL-C of 40.5mg/dL. Differences in TG levels were somewhat more impressive with the fenofibrate group having a mean TG level of 122mg/dL while the control group had a TG level of 144mg/dL. First occurrence of nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or death from cardiovascular causes was the primary outcome and there was no statistical difference between the fenofibrate treated group and the placebo group. Additionally, there were also no statistically significant differences between the groups with regards to
