Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


outcome and there was no statistical difference between the fenofibrate treated group and the placebo group. Additionally, there were also no statistically significant differences between the groups with regards to any of the secondary outcome measures of cardiovascular disease. Of note, the addition of fenofibrate to statin therapy did not result in an increase in either muscle or liver side effects. On further analysis there was a suggestion of benefit with fenofibrate therapy in the patients in whom the baseline TG levels were elevated (>204mg/dL) and HDL-C levels decreased (<34mg/dL). While this was a negative study, it must be recognized that most of the patients included in this study did not have the lipid profile that would typically lead to treatment with fibrates. 10. PROMINENT Trial : The PROMINENT trial studied the effect of pemafibrate, a new selective PPAR-alpha activator, in reducing cardiovascular outcomes in 10,497 patients (66.9% with previous ASCVD) with diabetes ( 201 ). This was a double-blind, randomized, controlled trial, in patients with Type 2 diabetes, with mild-to-moderate hypertriglyceridemia (TG level, 200 to 499 mg/dL), LDL-C < 100mg/dL, and HDL-C levels < 40 mg/dL who received either pemafibrate (0.2-mg tablets twice daily) or placebo in addition to statin therapy (96% on statins). The primary end point was a composite of nonfatal MI, ischemic stroke, coronary revascularization, or death from cardiovascular causes. Baseline fasting TG was 271 mg/dL, HDL-C 33 mg/dL, and LDL-C 78 mg/dL. Compared with placebo, pemafibrate decreased TG by 26.2%, while HDL-C increased 5.1% and LDL-C increased 12.3%. Notably non-HDL-C levels were unchanged and Apo B levels increased 4.8%. The primary endpoint was similar in the pemafibrate and placebo group (HR 1.03; 95% CI 0.91 to 1.15). The increase in LDL-C and Apo B levels may have accounted for the failure to reduce cardiovascular events. 11. Summary: The results of the ACCORD and PROMINENT trials were very disappointing and have greatly decreased the enthusiasm for adding fibrates to statin therapy to reduce cardiovascular events. Effect of Fibrates on Non-Cardiovascular Outcomes DIABETIC RETINOPATHY Small studies in the 1960’s presented suggestive evidence that treatment with clofibrate improved diabetic retinopathy ( 202 , 203 ). Randomized trials have confirmed these observations. The Fenofibrate Intervention and Event Lowering in Diabetes (FIELD) study was a randomized trial in patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus. Patients were randomly assigned to receive either fenofibrate 200 mg/day (n=4,895) or placebo (n=4,900). Laser treatment
