Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


occur only slightly more often in patients treated with a fibrate than in patients treated with a placebo. The risk of serious muscle disease appears to be increased in patients with renal failure, hypothyroidism, and in the elderly ( 220 ). The mechanism by which fibrates predispose to muscle disorders is unknown. The effect of fibrates in combination with statins on muscle disorders will be discussed in detail in the section on drug interactions below. Drug Interactions STATINS The combination a fibrate and a statin may increase the risk of developing muscle symptoms ( 220 ). The degree of risk is dependent on both the specific statin and the specific fibrate that is being used in combination ( 220 ). For example, the average incidence per 10,000 person-years for hospitalization for rhabdomyolysis with monotherapy with atorvastatin, pravastatin, or simvastatin was 0.44 (95% CI, 0.20-0.84); with fibrate alone was 2.82 (95% CI, 0.58-8.24); and with combined therapy of atorvastatin, pravastatin, or simvastatin with a fibrate was 5.98 (95% CI, 0.72-216.0) ( 233 ). Of note, the average incidence per 10,000 person-years for hospitalization for rhabdomyolysis with the combination of cerivastatin with a fibrate was 1035 (95% CI, 389-2117), clearly demonstrating an increased risk of the cerivastatin-fibrate combination compared to other statin-fibrate combinations ( 233 ). A study by Alsheikh-Ali and colleagues looking at cases of rhabdomyolysis reported to the FDA relative to the total number of prescriptions reached the conclusion that the combination of cerivastatin with a fibrate markedly increased the risk of this complication ( 235 ). Additionally, it was noted that the risk of rhabdomyolysis was greater with gemfibrozil compared to fenofibrate and that the combination of cerivastatin and gemfibrozil was particularly toxic ( 235 ). Other studies have also noted a marked risk with the combination of cerivastatin and gemfibrozil ( 236 ). Cerivastatin is no longer available. Studies comparing the risk of rhabdomyolysis with gemfibrozil-statin combination therapy compared to fenofibrate-statin combination therapy have shown an increased risk with gemfibrozil ( 220 ). For example, the number of cases of rhabdomyolysis reported with fenofibrate and statins other than cerivastatin was 0.58 per million prescriptions whereas with gemfibrozil and statins other than cerivastatin was 8.6 per million prescriptions ( 237 ). Reviews of the FDA’s adverse events reporting system database have estimated that the risk of myopathy for the combination of gemfibrozil with a statin was much greater than
