Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


237 ). Reviews of the FDA’s adverse events reporting system database have estimated that the risk of myopathy for the combination of gemfibrozil with a statin was much greater than the risk with the combination of fenofibrate with a statin ( 235 , 237 ). Additionally, studies that employed the combination of gemfibrozil and statins have reported a significant occurrence of muscle related symptoms whereas studies of fenofibrate in combination with statins have not shown an increase in muscle related symptoms ( 220 ). For example, the rate of myopathy in over 4,000 patients taking lovastatin was only 0.4% but in patients on the combination of lovastatin and gemfibrozil the frequency increased to 5% ( 238 ). In contrast, in the ACCORD-LIPID Trial over 5,000 patients on statin therapy were randomized to fenofibrate or placebo for 4.7 years and no increase in the incidence of muscle related symptoms was observed with fenofibrate therapy ( 200 ). Similarly, in the Field Trial approximately 1,000 patients were taking fenofibrate and a statin and with 5 years of follow-up no cases of rhabdomyolysis were reported ( 160 ). Finally, a meta-analysis by Geng and colleagues identified 13 randomized trials with 7,712 patients receiving combination fenofibrate-statin therapy compared with statin therapy alone ( 172 ). The incidence of elevated creatine kinase levels, muscle-associated adverse events, or withdrawals attributed to muscle dysfunction did not differ significantly between the fenofibrate + statin patients vs. the statin alone patients ( 172 ). The American College of Cardiology and American Heart Association Guidelines recommend against using the combination of a statin and gemfibrozil but recognize that the use of a statin and fenofibrate is appropriate under certain circumstances ( 239 ). The increased risk of combining gemfibrozil with statins is due to alterations in statin metabolism leading to increases in the serum levels of statins and hence an increased risk of myopathy ( 220 , 240 ). In contrast, fenofibrate does not alter statin metabolism and therefore can be safely combined with statins ( Table 19 ) ( 240 ). Table 19. Effect of Fibrates on Statin Pharmacokinetics ( 220 , 240 , 241 ) View in own window Statin Gemfibrozil Fenofibrate Atorvastatin Increase in C-Max by 1.5-Fold No Change Simvastatin Increase in C-Max by 2-Fold No Change Pravastatin Increase in C-Max by 2-Fold No Change Rosuvastatin Increase in C-Max by 2-Fold No Change Lovastatin Increase in C-Max
