Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


No Change Simvastatin Increase in C-Max by 2-Fold No Change Pravastatin Increase in C-Max by 2-Fold No Change Rosuvastatin Increase in C-Max by 2-Fold No Change Lovastatin Increase in C-Max by 2.8-Fold No Change Pitavastatin Increase in C-Max by 41% Unknown Fluvastatin No Change No Change The explanation for the difference between gemfibrozil and fenofibrate is that gemfibrozil uses the same family of glucuronidation enzymes as the statins thereby inhibiting statin metabolism ( 220 , 242 ). In contrast, fenofibrate uses a different family of glucuronidation enzymes and does not inhibit statin metabolism ( 220 ). COUMADIN ANTI-COAGULANTS Gemfibrozil and fenofibrate can potentiate the effect of coumadin anti-coagulants leading to a prolongation of prothrombin time and an increased risk of bleeding. When starting a fibrate in patients on coumadin therapy the dose of coumadin should be decreased and prothrombin times should be closely monitored (Lopid and Tricor Package Inserts). REPAGLINIDE Gemfibrozil in combination with rapaglinide increases blood levels of rapaglinide and therefore this combination should not be used because of the increased risk of hypoglycemia (Lopid Package Insert). Contraindications Fibrates are contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic dysfunction. Additionally, patients with pre-existing gallstones should not be treated with fibrates. Fenofibrate and gemfibrozil are pregnancy category C drugs and should only be used if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. The combination of gemfibrozil and a statin should be avoided. Conclusions Fibrates are effective drugs in reducing TG levels and modestly increase HDL-C levels. Additionally, they also reduce LDL-C and non-HDL-C levels. Fibrates have a number of side effects, and one should avoid using gemfibrozil in combination with statins. In contrast, fenofibrate can be used in combination with statins. Studies have not consistently demonstrated that fibrate monotherapy therapy reduces cardiovascular events and the combination of fibrates and statins in two studies has not been shown to be beneficial. Therefore, enthusiasm to use fibrates to reduce cardiovascular events has markedly diminished. In patients with diabetes fibrates appear to slow the progression of microvascular disease. Finally, fibrates are effective in lowering TGs in patients with marked hypertriglyceridemia and while not proven it will likely reduce the risk of the development of pancreatitis. APOLIPOPROTEIN C-III INHIBITORS Volanesorsen INTRODUCTION Volanesorsen (Waylivra) is an antisense oligonucleotide inhibitor of apolipoprotein C-III (apo C-III) mRNA that is approved in Europe for the treatment of familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS). This drug has not been approved
