Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


is an antisense oligonucleotide inhibitor of apolipoprotein C-III (apo C-III) mRNA that is approved in Europe for the treatment of familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS). This drug has not been approved by the FDA for use in the United States. FCS is a rare metabolic disorder involving the impaired function of lipoprotein lipase (LPL) due to mutations in LPL, Apo C-II, Apo A-V, lipase maturation factor 1, and glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored high-density lipoprotein-binding protein 1 (GPIHBP1) ( 243 , 244 ). For a detailed discussion of the diagnosis and treatment of FCS see the following references ( 243 - 245 ). EFFECT OF VOLANESORSEN ON LIPID AND LIPOPROTEIN LEVELS Familial Chylomicronemia Syndrome A double-blind, randomized 52-week trial (APPROACH study) evaluated the ability of volanesorsen (300 mg subcutaneously once weekly) vs. placebo to decrease TG levels in 66 patients with FCS (baseline TGs 2,209mg/dL) ( 246 ). The primary end point was the percentage change in fasting TG levels at 3 months. As expected, there was a marked reduction in Apo C-III levels (84% decrease) in the volanesorsen group and a small increase (6%) in the placebo group. Most importantly patients treated with volanesorsen had a 77% decrease at 3 months in TG levels (mean decrease of 1,712 mg/dL) whereas patients receiving placebo had an 18% increase in TG levels. The decrease in TGs in patients treated with volanesorsen persisted for 24 months ( 247 ). Significantly, 77% of the patients in the volanesorsen group vs. only 10% of patients in the placebo group had TG levels of less than 750 mg/dL, a level that would greatly reduce the risk of pancreatitis. In addition, patients who received volanesorsen had decreases in levels of chylomicron TG by 83%, apolipoprotein B-48 by 76%, non–HDL-C by 46%, and VLDL-C by 58% and increases in levels of HDL-C by 46%, apolipoprotein A1 by 14%, LDL-C by 136% (note LDL-C increased from 28 to 61 mg/dL), and total apolipoprotein B by 20%. While the APPROACH study was not powered to examine the effect of volanesorsen on pancreatitis, during the study three patients in the placebo group had four episodes of acute pancreatitis, whereas one patient in the volanesorsen group had one episode. In patients with a history of recurrent pancreatitis events (≥ 2 events in the 5 years prior to study, n = 11), a reduction in pancreatitis attacks was seen in patients treated with volanesorsen compared with placebo
