Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


inhibits the hepatic synthesis of apo C-III protein resulting in a reduction in plasma apo C-III levels ( 254 , 255 ). Apo C-III has a number of important effects on the metabolism of TG rich lipoproteins ( 256 ). Apo C-III is an inhibitor of LPL and therefore decreasing apo C-III levels will enhance LPL activity. In patients with FCS this will not be important because patients with this disorder have defects in components of the LPL complex that result in the inability to increase LPL activity. However, in patients with increased TG levels not due FCS this would accelerate the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins. Studies have also shown that apo C-III stimulates the production and secretion of VLDL by the liver. This effect is also not likely to be of primary importance in patients with FCS as the very high TG levels are primarily due to chylomicrons and not VLDL. However, in other situations increased hepatic secretion of VLDL may be an important contributor to hypertriglyceridemia. Whether apo C-III regulates chylomicron secretion by the intestine is unknown. Finally, Apo C-III inhibits the binding of TG rich lipoproteins to hepatic LDL receptors and LDL receptor–related protein 1 decreasing the clearance of TG rich lipoprotein particles. A decrease in apo C-III will accelerate the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins, which likely accounts for the ability of volanesorsen to decrease TG levels in patients with FCS. DRUG ADMINISTRATION AND PHARMACOKINETICS The recommended starting dose is 285 mg injected subcutaneously once weekly for 3 months after which the dose should be reduced to 285 mg every 2 weeks. If serum TGs decrease by less than 25% or are not below 2000 mg/dL (22.6 mmol/L) after 3 months on volanesorsen 285 mg weekly, treatment should be discontinued (package insert; https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/waylivra-epar-product-information_en.pdf ). After 6 months of treatment one can consider increasing the dose frequency back to 285 mg weekly if the serum TG response has been inadequate and the platelet counts are in the normal range. Patients should return to 285 mg every 2 weeks if the higher 285 mg once weekly dose does not provide a significant additional TG reduction after 9 months (package insert). EFFECT ON CLINICAL OUTCOMES As described above in the description of the effect of volanesorsen on lipid/lipoprotein levels in patients with FCS and marked hypertriglyceridemia there is suggestive evidence that lowering the very high TG levels with
