Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


in the description of the effect of volanesorsen on lipid/lipoprotein levels in patients with FCS and marked hypertriglyceridemia there is suggestive evidence that lowering the very high TG levels with volanesorsen treatment will reduce the risk of pancreatitis and improve the quality of life. An analysis of 3 randomized trials in patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia reported that acute pancreatitis occurred in 2 patients (2%) in the volanesorsen group and in 9 patients (10%) in the placebo group (odds ratio, 0.18; 95% confidence interval, 0.04 to 0.82) ( 257 ). Volanesorsen treatment reduced hepatic fat assessed by MRI in patients with FCS, severe hypertriglyceridemia, and familial partial lipodystrophy ( 258 ). The greater the hepatic fat the greater the decrease induced by volanesorsen. The effect of volanesorsen on cardiovascular disease has not been determined. However, epidemiologic studies have demonstrated that increased Apo C-III levels are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events ( 259 - 261 ) and coronary artery calcification ( 262 ). Moreover, carriers of rare heterozygous loss-of-function mutations in Apo C-III have reduced TG levels and reduced cardiovascular disease risk ( 263 - 265 ). One can speculate that lowering Apo C-III and TG levels with volanesorsen will have beneficial effects on the development of cardiovascular disease. SIDE EFFECTS Treatment with volanesorsen is very commonly associated with reductions in platelet count in patients with the FCS and may result in thrombocytopenia (package insert; https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/waylivra-epar-product-information_en.pdf ). Platelet counts below 140 x 10 9 /L were observed in 75% of patients treated with volanesorsen vs. 24% of placebo patients. Reductions to below 100 x 10 9 /L were observed in 47% of patients treated with volanesorsen compared with none of the patients in the placebo group. Bleeding secondary to low platelets may occur. Careful monitoring for thrombocytopenia is important during treatment and recommendations for adjustments to monitoring frequency and dosing are shown in table 20 (package insert). Platelet counts recover following drug discontinuation and administration of glucocorticoids where medically indicated. Table 20. Volanesorsen Monitoring and Treatment Recommendations View in own window Platelet Count (x10 9 /L) Dose Monitoring Frequency Normal (≥140) Starting dose: Weekly After 3 months: Every 2 weeks Every 2 weeks 100-139 Every 2 weeks Weekly 75-99 Pause treatment for ≥4 weeks and resume treatment after platelet levels ≥ 100 x 10 9 /L Weekly 50-74 Pause treatment for ≥4 weeks and resume treatment after platelet levels
