Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


Pause treatment for ≥4 weeks and resume treatment after platelet levels ≥ 100 x 10 9 /L Weekly 50-74 Pause treatment for ≥4 weeks and resume treatment after platelet levels ≥ 100 x 10 9 /L Every 2-3 days Less than 50 Discontinue treatment Glucocorticoids recommended Daily Renal toxicity has been observed after administration of volanesorsen. Monitoring for evidence of nephrotoxicity by routine urine dipstick is recommended on a quarterly basis. In the case of a positive assessment, one should measure serum creatinine and collect a 24-hour urine collection to quantify the proteinuria and assess creatinine clearance. Treatment should be discontinued if proteinuria ≥ 500 mg/24 hours is present, or an increase in serum creatinine ≥ 0.3 mg/dL that is >ULN occurs, or the creatinine clearance estimated by the CKD-EPI equation is ≤ 30 mL/min/1.73m 2 (package insert). Elevations of liver enzymes have been observed after the administration of volanesorsen. Serum liver enzymes and bilirubin should be monitored every 3 months. Treatment should be discontinued if there is a single increase in ALT or AST > 8 x ULN, or an increase > 5 x ULN, which persists for ≥ 2 weeks, or lesser increases in ALT or AST that are associated with total bilirubin > 2 x ULN or INR > 1.5 (package insert). As expected, injection site reactions are frequently observed and were reported in 82% of patients (erythema, pain, pruritus, or local swelling) (package insert). CONTRAINDICATIONS Treatment should not be initiated in patients with thrombocytopenia (platelet count <140 x 10 9 /L). Safety and efficacy have not been established in patients with severe renal disease or patients with hepatic impairment (package insert). There are no data on the use of volanesorsen in pregnant women and it is preferable to avoid the use of volanesorsen during pregnancy (package insert). However, there have been 2 instances where volanesorsen was used during pregnancy in patients with familial chylomicronemia syndrome and “In both case, fetal health was maintained throughout pregnancy, fetal scans revealed no anomalies, and planned C-sections delivered healthy babies without congenital issues” ( 266 ). DRUG INTERACTIONS Discontinuation of antiplatelet drugs/NSAIDs/anticoagulants should be considered for platelet levels < 75 x 10 9 /L. Treatment with these products must be discontinued at platelet levels < 50 x 10 9 /L. No other drug interactions have been described (package insert) CONCLUSIONS Volanesorsen is a useful drug in patients with the FCS,
