Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


olezarsen (n= 57) monthly ( 268 ). The median TG level was between 230-250mg/dL. After 6 months TG levels compared to placebo were decreased by 49% by the 50mg dose and 53% by the 80mg dose. Additionally, non-HDL-C levels were decreased by 23% and Apo B levels by 19% in patients treated with olezarsen 80mg with no significant change in LDL-C levels. Notably, HDL-C levels increased by 39% in patients treated with olezarsen 80mg. In a study of patients with TG levels between 200-500mg/dL the effect of 50mg olezarsen every 4 weeks on NMR-derived lipoprotein particle size and concentration was determined ( 269 ). TG rich lipoprotein particles decreased (51%) with the greatest decrease in large and medium size TG rich lipoprotein particles (approx. 60-70% decrease). The total number of LDL particles was unchanged but there was an increase in large LDL particles and a decrease in small LDL particles. Total HDL particles increased due to an increase in small HDL. MECHANISMS ACCOUNTING FOR THE OLEZARSEN INDUCED LIPID EFFECTS See the section on the Mechanisms Accounting for the Volanesorsen Induced Lipid Effects described above. DRUG ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of olezarsen is 80mg administered subcutaneously monthly into the abdomen or front of the thigh. EFFECT ON CLINICAL OUTCOMES The clinical trial with olezarsen in patients with FCS described above observed a decrease in episodes of pancreatitis. This is similar to the results seen with volanesorsen (described above in the volanesorsen section) and together these results indicate that decreasing TG levels via reducing Apo C-III levels is an effective treatment for preventing pancreatitis in FCS patients. The effect of olezarsen on cardiovascular disease has not been determined. However, epidemiologic studies have demonstrated that increased Apo C-III levels are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events ( 259 - 261 ) and coronary artery calcification ( 262 ). Moreover, carriers of rare heterozygous loss-of-function mutations in Apo C-III have reduced TG levels and reduced cardiovascular disease risk ( 263 - 265 ). One can speculate that lowering Apo C-III and TG levels with olezarsen will have beneficial effects on the development of cardiovascular disease. SIDE EFFECTS Hypersensitivity reactions, including symptoms of bronchospasm, diffuse erythema, facial swelling, urticaria, chills, and myalgias, requiring medical treatment have occurred (package insert). As expected, injection site reactions may occur. Additionally, arthralgias were noted in 9% of olezarsen treated patients and 0% of placebo treated patients (package
