Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


medical treatment have occurred (package insert). As expected, injection site reactions may occur. Additionally, arthralgias were noted in 9% of olezarsen treated patients and 0% of placebo treated patients (package insert). Similar to volanesorsen there is a decrease in platelet levels, but the decrease is much less. The mean percent change in platelet count was -10% and no patients with FCS treated with olezarsen had a platelet count <50,000/mm3 (package insert). There was no major bleeding events associated with a low platelet count and the patients experiencing a bleeding adverse event was similar in the olezarsen and placebo groups (package insert). Small increases in average fasting glucose (≤17 mg/dL) and HbA1c (<0.2%) were observed over time with olezarsen treatment in the FCS population. The incidence of hyperglycemia (defined as adverse events, new antidiabetic medication, or laboratory values) was higher in olezarsen-treated patients without a medical history of diabetes at baseline (52%) compared to placebo-treated patients (35%) (package insert). CONTRAINDICATIONS There is no data on the use of olezarsen during pregnancy and lactation. While not discussed in the package insert it is the author’s opinion that in patients with a low platelet count (<75,000/mm3) one should either avoid the use of olezarsen or very closely monitor platelet levels. DRUG INTERACTIONS There are no described drug interactions. CONCLUSIONS Olezarsen is a useful drug to lower TG levels in patients with the FCS, particularly in patients who have repeated episodes of acute pancreatitis. Because it doesn’t have a major adverse effect on platelets it will replace volanesorsen for lowering TG levels in patients with FCS. The drug is not currently approved for the treatment of multifactorial chylomicronemia syndrome (MFCS) but one would anticipate that it would be useful in patients with MFCS with recurrent pancreatitis refractory to the usual treatments. Whether olezarsen will be useful for the treatment of patients with less severe hypertriglyceridemia, who are not at high risk for pancreatitis, will depend on whether studies demonstrate that olezarsen reduces cardiovascular events. ALIPOGENE TIPARVOVEC (GLYBERA) Introduction Alipogene tiparvovec is a gene therapy that was approved in Europe for adult patients with FCS due to lipoprotein lipase deficiency and a history of multiple or severe episodes of pancreatitis who have failed dietary therapy ( 270 ). The diagnosis of FCS with loss of function mutations in lipoprotein lipase must be confirmed by genetic testing but patients need to have detectable levels of lipoprotein
