Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


( 270 ). The diagnosis of FCS with loss of function mutations in lipoprotein lipase must be confirmed by genetic testing but patients need to have detectable levels of lipoprotein lipase protein (to avoid immunological reactions) ( 270 ). Alipogene tiparvovec is an adeno-associated virus gene therapy that results in the expression of the naturally occurring S447X variant of the human lipoprotein lipase gene that has increased lipoprotein lipase activity compared to “normal” lipoprotein lipase ( 270 ). Approximately 20% of Caucasians express this gene variant and these individuals have lower plasma TG levels and an increase in HDL-C levels ( 271 , 272 ). Because of the lack of long-term efficacy alipogene tiparvovec is no longer clinically available. Effect of Alipogene Tiparvovec on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels In patients with lipoprotein lipase deficiency and plasma TG levels > 880mg/d, treatment with alipogene tiparvovec resulted in an approximately 40% decrease in fasting plasma TGs with half of the patients having > 40% decrease in fasting plasma TG levels at 3-12 weeks post treatment ( 273 ). By week 16-26, fasting TG levels returned to baseline values but chylomicron levels were reduced ( 273 ). While fasting TG levels returned to baseline, postprandial TG levels were reduced by approximately 60% suggesting that there are long term effects that are not reflected by fasting TG levels ( 274 ). In fact, in some patients treated with alipogene tiparvovec, lipoprotein lipase expression was demonstrated in muscle biopsies at 26 weeks ( 273 ). Mechanisms Accounting for the Alipogene Tiparvovec Induced Lipid Effects Gene therapy with alipogene tiparvovec results in the expression of lipoprotein lipase in muscle, which accelerates the clearance of chylomicrons ( 270 , 273 ). Studies have demonstrated a reduced peak level and a reduced area under the curve for postprandial chylomicrons ( 274 ). Drug Administration and Pharmacokinetics Alipogene tiparvovec is administered by multiple intramuscularly injections in the legs given at a single visit ( 270 ). The number of injections is > 40 and therefore the injections are given under spinal anesthesia ( 273 ). From 3 days before administration until 12 weeks after administration patients may be treated with cyclosporine (3mg/kg/day) and mycophenolate (2g/day) and on the day of administration methylprednisolone 1mg/kg) may be administered IV ( 270 , 273 ). Effect on Clinical Outcomes In patients with FCS and lipoprotein lipase deficiency the outcome of interest is
