Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


of administration methylprednisolone 1mg/kg) may be administered IV ( 270 , 273 ). Effect on Clinical Outcomes In patients with FCS and lipoprotein lipase deficiency the outcome of interest is pancreatitis. In a retrospective study of 19 patients treated with alipogene tiparvovec an approximate 50% decrease in pancreatitis was observed ( 275 ). In addition, patients treated with alipogene tiparvovec have reported benefits including discontinuing lipoprotein apheresis, increased energy, and the ability to liberalize their diet, which is difficult to comply with due to the marked limitation in dietary fat ( 273 , 276 ). Conclusions Alipogene tiparvovec may be a useful treatment for the rare patient with FCS due to lipoprotein lipase deficiency but the lack of long-term efficacy and the difficulty of giving the required injections led to this drug being removed from the market. Additionally, the development of inhibitors of Apo CIII described above has diminished the usefulness of alipogene tiparvovec for the treatment of patients with FCS due to lipoprotein lipase deficiency. EVINACUMAB (EVKEEZA) Introduction Evinacumab is a human monoclonal antibody against angiopoietin-like protein 3 (ANGPTL3). It is approved for the treatment of Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia (see Endotext chapter on Cholesterol Lowering Drugs ( 6 )). Evinacumab decreases LDL-C levels by mechanisms independent of LDL receptor activity. The recommended dose of evinacumab is 15 mg/kg administered by intravenous infusion over 60 minutes every 4 weeks. While it is not approved for TG lowering it is effective in lowering TG levels. Effect on Evinacumab on TG Levels For information on the effect of evinacumab on LDL-C levels see the Endotext chapter on “Cholesterol Lowering Drugs ( 6 ). Because of the difficulty in treating severe hypertriglyceridemia, I have focused on evinacumab in this group of patients. Phase 1 studies have shown that various doses of evinacumab lower TG levels in individuals with TG levels between 150-450mg/dL with maximal effects of approximately 80% reductions ( 277 ). Additionally. In patients treated with evinacumab to lower LDL-C, TG levels were reduced even though the baseline TG levels were < 150mg/dL ( 278 ). As one would expect LDL-C and HDL-C levels also decreased in these individuals with normal or modestly elevated TG levels. A phase 2 study evaluated evinacumab in three groups of patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia; FCS patients with bi-allelic loss-of-function mutations in the lipoprotein lipase (LPL) pathway (n = 17), multifactorial chylomicronemia syndrome (MFCS) with heterozygous loss-of-function
