Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


lower plasma levels of LDL-C, HDL-C, and triglycerides (familial combined hypolipidemia) ( 281 , 282 ). Heterozygous carriers of loss-of-function mutations in ANGPTL3, which occur at a frequency of about 1:300, have significantly lower total cholesterol, LDL-C, and triglyceride levels than noncarriers ( 281 ). Moreover, patients carrying loss-of-function variants in ANGPTL3 have a significantly lower risk of coronary artery disease ( 283 , 284 ). Additionally, in an animal model of atherosclerosis treatment with evinacumab decreased atherosclerotic lesion area and necrotic content ( 283 ). Taken together these observations suggest that inhibiting ANGPTL3 with evinacumab will reduce cardiovascular disease. Side Effects Serious hypersensitivity reactions have occurred with evinacumab. In clinical trials, 1 (1%) of evinacumab treated patients experienced anaphylaxis vs. 0% of patients who received placebo (package insert). Contraindications Based on animal studies, evinacumab may cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant patients (package insert). Patients should be advised of the potential risks to the fetus of pregnancy. Patients who may become pregnant should be advised to use effective contraception during treatment with evinacumab and for at least 5 months following the last dose. Summary Evinacumab lowers triglyceride levels in patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia due to multifactorial chylomicronemia syndrome and could be useful in selected patients with hypertriglyceridemia. Note it is not approved to treat severe hypertriglyceridemia and administration intravenously every 4 weeks will limit its use to special circumstances. CLINICAL USE OF TRIGLYCERIDE LOWERING DRUGS Marked Hypertriglyceridemia (>500mg/dL): Prevention of Pancreatitis In patients with marked elevations in TG levels (>500-1000mg/dL) the major concern is an increased risk of pancreatitis ( 285 , 286 ). Because of this increased risk it is imperative to lower TG levels. The initial steps are to 1) treat any disease states that could be leading to an elevation in plasma TG levels, 2) if possible, discontinue any drugs that could be leading to an elevation in plasma TGs, and 3) initiate lifestyle changes ( Table 22 ) ( 3 , 287 ). Table 22. Causes of Secondary Hypertriglyceridemia View in own window Lifestyle Diseases/Disorders Medications Excess calories Poorly controlled diabetes Corticosteroids Excess dietary fat intake Hypothyroidism Oral estrogen Excess simple sugars Renal disease Retinoic acid derivatives Overweight/Obesity HIV infection Beta adrenergic blockers Alcohol intake Cushing’s syndrome Thiazide diuretics Pregnancy Acromegaly Protease inhibitors Decreased physical activity Growth hormone deficiency Bile acid sequestrants Lipodystrophy Anti-psychotic drugs Paraproteinemia Cyclosporine/tacrolimus Nephrotic Syndrome L-asparaginase Inflammatory Disorders Interferon alpha
