Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


intake Cushing’s syndrome Thiazide diuretics Pregnancy Acromegaly Protease inhibitors Decreased physical activity Growth hormone deficiency Bile acid sequestrants Lipodystrophy Anti-psychotic drugs Paraproteinemia Cyclosporine/tacrolimus Nephrotic Syndrome L-asparaginase Inflammatory Disorders Interferon alpha 2b Cyclophosphamide These initial steps are often sufficient to result in marked reductions in plasma TG levels eliminating the need for TG lowering medications. For example, in patients with diabetes in very poor glycemic control, treatment that results in good glycemic control can markedly lower TG levels ( 288 ). Similarly, the restoration of euthyroidism in a hypothyroid patient can also markedly lower lipid levels ( 289 ). If these initial steps do not result in a lowering of TGs into an acceptable range, then the use of drugs to lower plasma TG levels is indicated. There have been no randomized controlled trials demonstrating that treatment diminishes pancreatitis but most experienced clinicians believe that lowering TG levels to below 500-1000mg/dL reduces the risk of developing pancreatitis ( 285 , 286 ). The addition of either fibrates or omega-3 fatty acids to lifestyle changes are commonly used to lower markedly elevated TG levels. In some patients, combination therapy is required to lower plasma TGs to an acceptable range. The approach described above is ineffective in most patients with FCS. In patients with FCS dietary fat calories need to be severely restricted to approximately 5-20% of calories, which is difficult for many patients to comply with. Additionally, patients with FCS often respond poorly to the usual drugs (fibrates, omega-3 fatty acids, niacin) used to lower TG levels. The development of Apo CIII inhibitors has resulted in drugs that are effective in lowering TG levels and preventing pancreatitis in patients with FCS. Moderate Hypertriglyceridemia (150-500mg/dL): Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease In the era of statin therapy, it is uncertain whether lowering TG levels in patients on statin therapy will further reduce cardiovascular events. As discussed in detail in the sections on individual drugs, the studies carried out so far have not shown that adding niacin or fibrates to statin therapy is beneficial with regards to cardiovascular disease. As also discussed, some of the available studies have major limitations because many of the patients in these outcome studies did not have substantial elevations in TGs. Nevertheless, at this time there is little enthusiasm for adding either fibrates or niacin to statins to lower the risk of cardiovascular events. Notably, the REDUCE-IT trial, which tested the
