Triglyceride Lowering Drugs
KEYWORDS: levels, patients, niacin, placebo, decrease, group, therapy, cardiovascular, increase, fenofibrate, ldl-c, fatty, epa, effect, hdl-c


Nevertheless, at this time there is little enthusiasm for adding either fibrates or niacin to statins to lower the risk of cardiovascular events. Notably, the REDUCE-IT trial, which tested the effect of high dose EPA (4 grams per day) in patients with elevated TG levels on statin therapy demonstrated a 25% reduction in cardiovascular events. However, the decrease in cardiovascular events was considerably greater than one would expect based on the reduction in TG levels suggesting that the decrease in cardiovascular events was not solely due to lowering TG levels and that other effects of EPA likely played a role. Additionally, as discussed in detail in the section discussing cardiovascular trials in the omega-3-fatty acid section there are concerns that the use of mineral oil as the placebo in the REDUCE-IT trial may have caused harmful effects leading to increased cardiovascular events in the placebo group. Thus, the role of EPA in reducing cardiovascular events is debated with some experts feeling that it is beneficial while others feeling that the evidence for benefit is not definitive. Clearly additional studies are required to resolve this controversy. In the meantime, clinicians will need to use their clinical judgement on whether to treat patients with modest elevations in TG levels with EPA (icosapent ethyl; Vascepa) balancing the potential benefits of treatment vs. the potential side effects. Some guidelines use non-HDL-C as a therapeutic goal and thus the use of omega-3-fatty acids and fibrates will often be required to lower TG levels to achieve these non-HDL-C goals. In contrast, other guidelines focus on LDL-C levels and the use of statins and thus de-emphasize the use of omega-3-fatty acids and fibrates. Given the absence of definitive data one needs to use clinical judgement. Consideration should also be given to the use of fenofibrate in hypertriglyceridemic patients with diabetes at high risk for microvascular disease given the studies that have shown that fibrates reduce the microvascular complications of diabetes. Because of the side effects of niacin, the use of niacin to lower TG levels has markedly diminished. In the past we used to use niacin to lower both LDL-C levels and TGs but with the availability of ezetimibe, bempedoic acid, and PCSK9 inhibitors the need to use niacin to lower LDL-C levels has markedly decreased. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work was supported by grants from the Northern California Institute for Research and Education. REFERENCES 1. Messersmith A, Purbey
