Wiley
KEYWORDS: bleeding, patient, factor, fxi, acquired, inhibitors, patients, coagulation, inhibitor, factors, defciency, case, coagulation factors, stopped, low


stopped. On discharge, the patient was advised to was adenocarcinoma. No afected lymph nodes or distant takePrednison40mgdaily,withdosetaperingoverthenext wasT2N0M0.Duetothediagnosisofadenocarcinomaand patient remained in remission, with no signs of relapse or profuse bleeding which could not be stopped during colo- postoperative and bleeding complications. noscopy, the patient had to undergo surgery. Resection of the sigmoid colon was performed with the creation of aterminalcolonostomy.Tepatienthadreceivedtwodoses 3.Discussion offreshfrozenplasmaandthecontrolaPTTvaluewas32.5s, R 1.29, and the postoperative course was normal. On the Developmentofcoagulationfactorautoantibodiesisavery 14thpostoperativeday,serosanguineousdrainageappeared rare coagulopathy, usually present in the elderly, with an and the patient started to complain of abdominal pain. A overall incidence of 1.5 per million per year. Inhibitors are retroperitoneal hematoma (10×10cm) was verifed by mostcommonlydirectedagainstfactorVIII(75%–90%ofall computed tomography so surgical evacuation of the he- cases of acquired inhibitors) and von Willebrand factor matoma was perfomed (Figures 1(a) and 1(b)). (VWf), while inhibitors against other coagulation factors, Preoperative laboratory investigation revealed a hemo- including FXI, are only occasionally reported [5–12]. Te globin level of 11.9g/dL, platelet count of 685×109/L, incidenceofacquiredinhibitorstoFXIisstillunknown.Te patient received two doses of fresh frozen plasma and one bleeding reports are mild but sometimes can be life- dose of cryoprecipitate. A few hours later, the patient’s threatening bleeding [8–10]. Usually, bleeding phenotype conditiondeteriorated,hehadalargebloodystoolandblood isoftenparalleltothecourseoftheunderlyingdisease,but, appeared in the abdominal drains and consequently approximately, half of the cases are idiopathic, with un- ahemorrhagicshockdeveloped(adropinhemoglobinlevel identifedcourse.Spontaneoushemorrhagicepisodes to 38g/L). Due to the patient’s severe hemodynamic in- are not featuresof FXI defciency. Bleedingmay be seen in stability,anurgentreoperationwasperformedtolocatethe the oral and nasal cavity, pharynx, and genitourinary tract, bleedingsite.About2900mLofbloodandcoagulumswere which are areas of increased fbrinolytic activity. Common removedfromtheperitonealcavity.TevalueofaPTTwasR bleeding manifestations include epistaxis, hematoma, he- 1.75,PTR1.43,andfbrinogenlevel1.60g/L.Aftersurgery, maturia, menorrhagia, postpartal bleeding, and post- the patient was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit as he operative hemorrhage. Contrary to inherited hemophilia, requiredrespiratoryandvasoactivesupportwhileresuming hemarthroses is rare in acquired hemophilia [14–17]. supstitution with blood and blood derivatives. Additional In this case report, we described a case of acquired laboratory analysis with rotational thromboelastrometry inhibitortoFXIwithseverepostpolypectomybleedingand (ROTEM)wasperformed.DefciencyoffactorsIX(54%),XI colonadenocarcinoma.WeevendetectedinhibitorstoFXI (31%), and XII (31%) were detected. To investigate the at low titer (1.25 BU) and a nonsevere reduction of FXI prolonged aPTT, mixing studies were conducted. After coagulant activity (FXI 31%) when the patient developed 2hoursofincubationat37°C,theresultof1:1mixingstudy life-threateningbleeding and hemorrhagicshock.Based on (patientplasmamixedwithnormalpooledplasma)showed this case, we can conclude that there seems to be weak nocorrectionoftheaPTT,consistentwiththepresenceofan correlationbetweentheplasmaFXIinhibitorconcentration, inhibitor.Bethesdaassayanalysisestablishedthepresenceof factor activity and bleeding intensity. Other authors also anacquiredFXIinhibitor,withaninhibitortiterquantifed described patients with severe life-threatening hemorrhage at1.25BU/mL(Table1).Lupusanticoagulantwasruledout. andlowtiterinhibitortoFXI.Wheelerassertsthatthe Administration of recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa; correlation between factor level
