Wiley
KEYWORDS: bleeding, patient, factor, fxi, acquired, inhibitors, patients, coagulation, inhibitor, factors, defciency, case, coagulation factors, stopped, low


nocorrectionoftheaPTT,consistentwiththepresenceofan correlationbetweentheplasmaFXIinhibitorconcentration, inhibitor.Bethesdaassayanalysisestablishedthepresenceof factor activity and bleeding intensity. Other authors also anacquiredFXIinhibitor,withaninhibitortiterquantifed described patients with severe life-threatening hemorrhage at1.25BU/mL(Table1).Lupusanticoagulantwasruledout. andlowtiterinhibitortoFXI.Wheelerassertsthatthe Administration of recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa; correlation between factor level activity and clinical symp- NovoSeven, Novo Nordisk—90μg/kg) was started along toms is the weakest for FXI . But, on the other hand, with tranexamic acid (1g/8h) and prednisolone (1mg/kg). there is the fact that bleeding most likely occurs in in- On the next day, the patient’s condition improved and the dividuals with FXI levels lower than 20%, which is bleeding intensity decreased, which stopped on the second a threshold for severe FXI defciency . Our patient was postoperative day. alsodiagnosedwithFIXandFXIIdefciencies,whichisnot Te dosages of rFVIIa and intervals of administration surprising due to patients with FXI inhibitors often wereadjustedaccordingtotheclinicalandlaboratorysigns exhibiting low activity of FXII, precallicrein, kininogen, or of bleeding (90μg/kg every 2-3h with the extension of the even factors VIII and IX. Autoantibodies appeared to be interval when bleeding control was achieved and stopped directed against FXI but also other clotting factors partici- afterthreedays).Antifbrinolyticandcorticosteroidtherapy pating in the intrinsic pathway. Te intrinsic pathway is wascontinuedforthenext15days.Tepatient’scondition clinically measured as the aPTT, whose prolongation with was stabilized and he was discharged on the 20th thepresenceofsofttissuehematomaand/orbleedingisthe CaseReportsinHematology 3 (a) (b) Figure1:Computedtomographyofthe abdomenshowingretroperitonealhematoma(a) andaxial view(b). main laboratory hallmark of acquired inhibitors of FXI shock, we administered recombinant factor VIIa which . successfully stopped the bleeding. In addition, we started Tere are two principal goals in the treatment of ac- reducing the levels of autoantibodies with corticosteroid quired inhibitors of coagulation factors: controlling the therapy, which provided a rapid response with the disap- bleeding as a short-term goal and inhibitor eradication as pearanceoftheinhibitoronthe10thdayoftherapy.Anoral along-termgoal.Otherobjectivesincludethepreventionof antifbrinolytic agent—tranexamic acid was added as an bleeding episodes and the treatment of the underlying extra hemostatic factor. Supplementation with anti- disease . Tere are currently no recommended fbrinolytictherapyshouldbeusedcautiouslybecauseofthe guidelinesorstandardizedprotocolsavailableregardingthe potential for thromboticevents, especiallyin older patients management of acquired FXI inhibitors. Te 2013 and patients with comorbidities . UKHCDO guidelines recommend a case-by-case approach In the case of underlying cancer, which probably due to the fact that some patients with acquired factor in- triggered the development of the inhibitor in our patient, hibitors(otherthanFVIII)whoareasymptomaticmaynot efectivetreatmenteitherbysurgery,bychemotherapy,or requiretreatmentduetosomeinhibitorsbeingtransientand radiotherapyshouldbeproposedandprioritizedsincethe abnormalities.Whereasbleedingsymptomsareavari- inhibitor. By contrast, if the cancer is not removed and able even at relatively low levels of FXI, the mainstream resolved, the inhibitor’s eradication would not be suc- treatmentdecisionisbasedontheclinicalpresentation,not cessful.Sometimes,acquiredclottingfactorinhibitorsmay totheplasmalevelofFXI.Itishighlyrecommendedthat represent initial presentation, relapses of malignancy,
