Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2014 January 7; 20(1): 37-44
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, bowel, motor, motility, gastrointestinal, disorders, symptoms, disease, inflammatory, small, gastric, study, showed, activity


Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2014 January 7; 20(1): 37-44 ISSN 1007-9327 (print) ISSN 2219-2840 (online) TOPIC HIGHLIGHT WJG 20th Anniversary Special Issues (3): Inflammatory bowel disease Gastrointestinal motility disorders in inflammatory bowel diseases Gabrio Bassotti, Elisabetta Antonelli, Vincenzo Villanacci, Marianna Salemme, Manuela Coppola, Vito Annese Gabrio Bassotti, Elisabetta Antonelli, Gastroenterology and from the esophagus to the anorectum, and which will Vincenzo Villanacci, Marianna Salemme, Second Pathology to inflammatory cytokine trafficking and neuromus- Section, Spedali Civili of Brescia, 25100 Brescia, Italy cular changes; however, given the high prevalence Manuela Coppola, Vito Annese, Gastroenterology Unit, Care- of functional gastrointestinal disorders in the general population, this overlap might also be serendipitous. Author contributions: Bassotti G and Annese V ideated the However, it is worth noting that literature data on this project; Bassotti G wrote the first draft of the manuscript; An- topic are relatively scarce, sometimes quite outdated, tonelli E, Villanacci V, Salemme M, Coppola M and Annese V critically reviewed the manuscript; all authors read and ap- and mostly focused on the interplay between irritable proved the final version of the manuscript. bowel syndrome and inflammatory bowel disease. Maria della Misericordia, Piazzale Menghini 1, 06156 Perugia, inactive inflammatory bowel disease, correlate with Italy. greater psychological comorbidity and poorer quality of Telephone: +39-75-5784423 Fax: +39-75-5847570 life, and may negatively influence the therapeutic ap- proaches. Key words: Crohn’s disease; Gastrointestinal motility disorders; Gut; Inflammatory bowel diseases; Percep- tion; Ulcerative colitis Abstract © 2014 Baishideng Publishing Group Co., Limited. All rights The relationship between motility and inflammatory reserved. gastrointestinal disorders is at the same time com- plex and intriguing since these conditions might share Core tip: Gastrointestinal motor disorders are not in- some genetic, environmental, immunological and mi- frequently associated with inflammatory bowel disease crobial predisposing factors. In addition, significant and may represent a confounding factor, especially within the clinical context. Although on one hand this is in remission. Since these entities may involve all the represents a challenge for the clinician for a potential segments of the gastrointestinal tract, it is important under- or over-treatment and diagnostic delay, on the that clinicians and researchers be aware of this poten- other hand it possibly represents an opportunity for tial overlap, since lack of knowledge may lead to mis- the researcher to better disclose the intimate relation- treatment or overtreatment. However, literature data ship between chronic (often low-grade) inflammation, on this topic are relatively scarce
