Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2014 January 7; 20(1): 37-44
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, bowel, motor, motility, gastrointestinal, disorders, symptoms, disease, inflammatory, small, gastric, study, showed, activity


may lead to mis- the researcher to better disclose the intimate relation- treatment or overtreatment. However, literature data ship between chronic (often low-grade) inflammation, on this topic are relatively scarce and are extensively motor disorders and deranged sensory function. The covered in this review. best example is probably represented by Crohn’s dis- ease and ulcerative colitis. In fact, a number of gas- trointestinal motor disorders have been described in Bassotti G, Antonelli E, Villanacci V, Salemme M, Coppola association with these diseases, disorders which span M, Annese V. Gastrointestinal motility disorders in inflamma- WJG|www.wjgnet.com 37 January 7, 2014|Volume 20|Issue 1| Bassotti G et al. GI motility disorders in IBD tory bowel diseases. World J Gastroenterol 2014; 20(1): 37-44 over, symptoms related to motility/functional gastroin- Available from: URL: testinal disorders are highly prevalent in both active and v20/i1/37.htm DOI: inactive IBD and correlate with greater psychological co- morbidity and poorer quality of life. Some data also suggest that intercurrent infectious gastroenteritis may increase IBD risk in IBS patients. However, as can be INTRODUCTION seen from the literature evidence, most data on the rela- tionship of functional gastrointestinal disorders/IBD is Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), mainly represented by Crohn’s disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), are actually focused on the relationship of IBS/IBD and the emerging pathological conditions whose epidemiological other gastrointestinal motor abnormalities are relatively rising is thought to be related to the westernization of neglected. The following paragraphs will take into con- lifestyle and industrialization. The genesis of IBD is sideration these relationships for each segment of the quite complex and numerous pathophysiological factors gastrointestinal tract (Table 1). are now recognized to be involved in the predisposition, triggering, progression and outcome of these conditions. ESOPHAGUS Interestingly, several of these factors are the same thought to be responsible for the genesis of (at least some Although relatively uncommon (about 5%-8% in both of) gastrointestinal motor abnormalities, disorders that are adults and children), esophageal involvement has be- classified among the so-called functional gastrointestinal come increasingly recognized in IBD, especially in patients disorders, i.e., those pathological entities in which no with CD, even in the absence of specific symptoms as known structural (pathological or radiological) abnormal- patients more frequently undergo upper endoscopical ever, in recent years it has become evident that, at least to the mucosal and/or transmural involvement by the for some of these entities, the pathophysiological mecha- inflammatory process. One report showed
