Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2014 January 7; 20(1): 37-44
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, bowel, motor, motility, gastrointestinal, disorders, symptoms, disease, inflammatory, small, gastric, study, showed, activity


recent years it has become evident that, at least to the mucosal and/or transmural involvement by the for some of these entities, the pathophysiological mecha- inflammatory process. One report showed an achalasia- nisms, defined as “idiopathic” until now, can actually be like motility disorder in a patient with dysphagia and CD, reconducted to some form (sometimes very subtle) of with the esophageal dysmotility being due to the exten- low grade inflammation. This is, for instance, the case of sive inflammatory/fibrotic process. To date, no specific bowel syndrome (IBS) and chronic constipation, out in IBD patients, except a small group of UC patients where the presence of limited number of inflamma- undergoing esophageal manometry as a pathological tory cells infiltrating the mucosa and/or the myenteric control group in whom no abnormalities were found plexus has been reported. On the other hand, the recent compared with normal controls. description of enteric nervous system (ENS) abnormali- It is worth noting that gastro-esophageal reflux symp- ties in IBD patients (mainly represented by myenteric toms are more frequent in patients with active IBD com- plexitis) may justify alterations of the normal motor pared with those with quiescent disease and are associ- function and visceral reflexes of the gut. ated with a reduced quality of life and increasing likelihood Thus, as we will see below, the co-existence of IBD of anxiety and depression compared to controls . and gastrointestinal motor disorders may somewhat rep- resent more than a serendipitous occasion and it is likely STOMACH that motility and/or perception abnormalities play a role what extent these motor abnormalities provoke or cor- subtle microscopical abnormalities of the stomach and relate with gastrointestinal symptoms reported by IBD duodenum may be also present in patients with IBD and patients during remission is rather unknown. However, might explain some upper gastrointestinal symptoms. despite potential limitations, the majority of studies re- However, to date, only a few studies have investigated port a greater frequency of “IBS-like” symptoms in qui- gastric motor function in patients with IBD. An earlier escent IBD compared to the background population. study with barium meal (a suboptimal method to evalu- ate gastric motor activity) on three patients with gastric involvement showed loss of normal gastric motility. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS A subsequent scintigraphic study on pediatric patients The relationship between gastrointestinal motility disor- showed that gastric emptying was normal in UC patients ders and IBD is a quite complex
