Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2014 January 7; 20(1): 37-44
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, bowel, motor, motility, gastrointestinal, disorders, symptoms, disease, inflammatory, small, gastric, study, showed, activity


CONSIDERATIONS A subsequent scintigraphic study on pediatric patients The relationship between gastrointestinal motility disor- showed that gastric emptying was normal in UC patients ders and IBD is a quite complex one and not well eluci- and delayed in about 30% of children with CD. This dated yet since multiple variables appear to play a role. delay was more prominent in malnourished children. For instance, IBS-like symptoms are frequently found in The scintigraphic findings of normal gastric emptying patients with IBD considered to be in clinical remission in UC adults have been confirmed by other authors. and it is very difficult to distinguish these symptoms as Gastric emptying after intestinal resection in adults with due to IBS or to persisting occult inflammation. More- CD proved to be within normal limits and the authors WJG|www.wjgnet.com 38 January 7, 2014|Volume 20|Issue 1| Bassotti G et al. GI motility disorders in IBD Table 1 Summary of motor abnormalities and gastrointestinal symptoms in inflammatory bowel diseases patients in each segment of the gastrointestinal tract Segment Motor changes Symptoms Ref. Esophagus Aspecific, achalasia-like (rare) Gastroesophageal reflux Stomach Delayed emptying Not reported (?) Biliary tree Possible reduction of cyclic contractions of gallbladder due to deranged Symptoms related to gallstones phase Ⅲ and motilin peaks Small bowel Large amplitude, rapidly propagated waves in small bowel of UC after IBS-like symptoms [49,57-60] proctocolectomy Reduced small bowel contractions, increased incidence single and clustered propagated contractions in CD Colon Decreased contractility in UC with accelerated transit. Diarrhea [75-77] Reduced tone after meals Increased propulsive activity Anorectum Low anal pressure, poor rectal distensibility, reduced compliance, enhanced Incontinence, urgency [84-88] perception [90-93] UC: Ulcerative colitis; CD: Crohn’s disease. concluded that the diarrhea observed in these subjects was found. Therefore, we hypothesized that in some should not be attributed to rapid gastric emptying. In a patients with CD, a reduction of cyclic phasic contrac- scintigraphic study on gastric emptying in adult patients tions of gallbladder occurs because of a decreased inci- with non-obstructive CD and no upper gastrointestinal in- dence of motilin peaks and phases Ⅲ of the migrating volvement, we showed that, compared with healthy volun- motor complex in the antro-duodenal area. Thus, the teers, no overall significant differences were found; how- lack of periodic stirring of bile contained in the gallblad- ever, subgroup analysis revealed that symptomatic patients der may lead to supersaturation and stone formation. and those with colonic involvement had
