Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2014 January 7; 20(1): 37-44
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, bowel, motor, motility, gastrointestinal, disorders, symptoms, disease, inflammatory, small, gastric, study, showed, activity


of periodic stirring of bile contained in the gallblad- ever, subgroup analysis revealed that symptomatic patients der may lead to supersaturation and stone formation. and those with colonic involvement had a significantly delayed gastric emptying compared to controls. Such a SMALL BOWEL difference was also observed between symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. Another scintigraphic study in- The small bowel represents the main anatomic site of vestigated the occurrence and putative pathophysiological involvement for patients with CD, even although the mechanisms of gastric motor disorders in a small group terminal ileum may be rarely involved in UC. In vitro of adult IBD patients and concluded that disturbances of studies showed that inflammation impairs the contractile gastric emptying are most pronounced in CD and might responses of human small intestine and this may be partly be caused by excessive CCK release. observed even with minimal inflammatory responses. Thus, IBD patients may complain of symptoms not only related to the active phases of their disease, but BILIARY TREE also to low grade inflammation that produces symptoms Although the hepatobiliary tree is frequently affected in correlated to autonomic dysfunction and abnormalities patients with IBD, its motor function has been scarce- of the motor activity or of visceral sensations. These ly investigated in these subjects and only a few data are symptoms are associated with lower quality of life and available in the literature. An ultrasound study carried higher healthcare utilization in IBD patients and may out in a small group of IBD patients during continuous herald a cohort at risk for worse outcomes since they enteral nutrition revealed that gallbladder contractility may be present even in patients with quiescent disease, and responsiveness to intravenous cholecystokinin are in whom the quality of life may be severely impaired preserved in such instances. Another ultrasound study by this association. In addition, in these patients a reported that after ileo-cecal resection, fasting gallblad- potential overtreatment with drug-related toxicity might der volume is decreased, whereas postprandial gallblad- occur. On the above grounds, it is therefore not surpris- der motility is normal. Cholecystectomy specimens ing that a substantial number of IBD patients experience from patients with IBD did not show significant histo- IBS-type symptoms (abdominal pain and discomfort, pathological differences compared to controls. Never- diarrhea, constipation), symptoms that often originate theless, gallstone prevalence is increased in CD patients; from low-grade inflammation causing abnormal motility site and duration of disease and previous
