Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2014 January 7; 20(1): 37-44
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, bowel, motor, motility, gastrointestinal, disorders, symptoms, disease, inflammatory, small, gastric, study, showed, activity


to controls. Never- diarrhea, constipation), symptoms that often originate theless, gallstone prevalence is increased in CD patients; from low-grade inflammation causing abnormal motility site and duration of disease and previous intestinal resec- and perception, especially (but not only) in the small in- tions are considered as risk factors, even although data are testine. These patients exhibit similar pathophysiologi- conflicting. In 25 asymptomatic, uncomplicated CD cal features to people diagnosed with IBS in the general patients we found a significant derangement of phase community[52-54], suggesting that the conditions are not Ⅲ of migrating motor complex in terms of occurrence, mutually exclusive, may coexist in a considerable num- Moreover, no clear peaking of motilin before phase Ⅲ insufficient to discriminate between the two conditions. WJG|www.wjgnet.com 39 January 7, 2014|Volume 20|Issue 1| Bassotti G et al. GI motility disorders in IBD Fortunately, the availability of fecal markers of inflam- access), concerning motility and perception, the research- mation may be quite useful in this setting. However, ers’ interest has focused more on the colon than on the it should be kept in mind that a certain number of IBD other hollow viscera. Indeed, there is wide experimental patients with normal fecal calprotectin levels experience evidence that inflammation may affect the motor[66-69] and IBS-type symptoms and exhibit similar features to people perceptive[70-72] function of the large bowel. Interestingly, diagnosed with IBS in the general community, suggesting these effects are observed after resolution of the inflam- that the conditions are not mutually exclusive and may co- matory phenomena and might be related to the fact exist in a considerable number of IBD patients. that, at least for a subset of patients, a complete mucosal Concerning objective measurements, it is worth not- healing is not (or never) reached and a persistent sub- small bowel motor function (due to the relatively inva- paracellular permeability may be associated with the pres- sive manometric techniques needing deep intestinal in- ence of IBS-like symptoms. It is also worth noting that tubation and prolonged periods of recordings) has been the role of inflammation is not limited to the mucosa and scarcely investigated in IBD. muscular components of the bowel wall, but also involves the neuroenteric circuitries (i.e., the ENS). UC Early manometric studies carried out in the rectosig- The few available studies have been conducted on the moid area revealed decreased colonic contractility in pa- small bowel of patients after proctocolectomy and
