Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2014 January 7; 20(1): 37-44
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, bowel, motor, motility, gastrointestinal, disorders, symptoms, disease, inflammatory, small, gastric, study, showed, activity


studies carried out in the rectosig- The few available studies have been conducted on the moid area revealed decreased colonic contractility in pa- small bowel of patients after proctocolectomy and ileal tients with UC and correlated this decrease with the pouch-anal anastomosis. In a manometric study on eight presence of diarrhea, findings also confirmed by myo- such patients, the authors concluded that jejunoileal motil- electric techniques. Subsequently, the simultaneous ity is not greatly altered by this kind of surgery. However, assessment of motility and transit in UC patients carried the appearance of large amplitude, rapidly propagating out by a combined manometric/scintigraphic approach waves in the proximal jejunoileum after operation may confirmed that the reduced colonic motor activity is be a response to increased storage within and distention also present in more proximal segments and that these of the distal bowel. Subsequently, similar findings (also patients have increased propagated activity of the colon by electromyographic assessment) have been reported that may speed the transit of contents. Moreover, it by other authors[59-61]. Interestingly, the defunctionalized has been demonstrated by studies conducted with the ileum in these patients is able to regain at least some of its barostat that UC patients display reduced tone of the motor function after a brief period of meal stimulation. descending colon following meals. More recent stud- ies evaluating 24 h manometric recordings of colonic CD motility in patients with UC showed that, compared to In a study conducted on nine patients with partial me- controls, patients with moderately active disease have in- chanical obstruction due to CD, jejunal manometry creased propulsive activity (of both high and low ampli- showed that after the meal the most striking finding was tude), a mechanism likely to be responsible for the diar- the regular occurrence of clustered contractions. The as- rhea. This mechanism may be related to the distension sociated periods of quiescent motor activity may account of the large bowel due to accumulation of fluids and for the unexpectedly reduced postprandial frequency and inflammatory materials. Interestingly, the increased num- motility index in obstructed patients compared with nor- ber of high-amplitude propagated contractions reduces mal subjects. Another manometric study, carried out in UC patients in remission, whereas the low-amplitude in CD patients without any sign of occlusion receiving propulsive activity remains higher compared to controls, total parenteral nutrition for acute exacerbation of the possibly contributing to the persistence of abdominal disease,
