Social and Environmental Factors Influencing Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, food, free, article, social, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, status, health, physical, activity, prevalence


ABSTRACT The evidence for social and environmental factors that contribute to obesity are often underappreciated. Obesity prevalence is significantly associated with sex, racial ethnic identity, and socioeconomic status, which creates complex relationships between each of these characteristics. Food availability remains an important factor associated with obesity that relates to differences in prevalence seen across geographical areas and higher rates of obesity within low socioeconomic status individuals. Proliferation of high calorie, energy dense food options that are or perceived as more affordable combined with reductions in occupational and transportation related physical activity can contribute to a sustained positive energy balance. Additionally, environments experiencing deprivation, disorder, or high crime have been shown to be associated with higher odds of obesity, which may appear more frequently in low social status individuals. Both objective and subjective measures of social status and inequality are associated with increased energy intake and decreased energy expenditure, which could place individuals of low social status at greater risk for obesity development. Given the complexity of this multifactorial disease, effective obesity care requires knowledge of these complex relationships and an integration between the health systems and surrounding community. Resources for practicing clinicians regarding methods of screening for social and environmental factors in clinical care are provided in addition to information on a program that has been widely dispersed and made accessible to those who may be the most at risk. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Many medical providers appreciate the significant social and environmental determinants of obesity but are unsure how to address them. Others consider these factors outside of their control and scope of practice, and are thus hesitant to even broach the topic with their patients. Finally, many medical providers still attribute obesity to causes within a person’s control, such as dietary choices, amount of exercise, or willpower, ( 1 , 2 ) which perpetuates a stigma that accompanies this disease. Specifically, the prevailing stigma is that those who suffer from obesity represent a population who lack the willingness to change their poor lifestyle habits or harbor a character flaw that, at its extreme, infers immoral behaviors (e.g., gluttony). In reality, obesity is a multifactorial disease ( 3 ) that is caused by a combination of biological, genetic, social, environmental, and behavioral determinants. In order to address this gap in the understanding of the social
