Social and Environmental Factors Influencing Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, food, free, article, social, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, status, health, physical, activity, prevalence


disease ( 3 ) that is caused by a combination of biological, genetic, social, environmental, and behavioral determinants. In order to address this gap in the understanding of the social and environmental determinants of obesity and improve the care of patients with obesity, this chapter will review the evidence for the social and environmental determinants of obesity development. The specific areas to be covered include social identity, social status, societal trends, and influences of the built, industrial, and social environments, all factors that are closely associated with the prevalence or incidence of obesity or that impact efforts to prevent and treat this disease. Resources for the busy clinician that will support implemental changes in one’s practice to improve the care and management of patients with obesity, as well as evidenced-based opportunities for advocacy in the community, will be included in the final section. This chapter is divided into three primary sections based on the progression of thought and evidence surrounding the social and environmental determinants of obesity: individual characteristics, environmental characteristics, and social hierarchy influences. Individual characteristics are those that are attributed to the individual with obesity such as their sex, age, race, ethnicity, and socioeconomic status (SES). Environmental characteristics surround the individual, including the physical spaces where people live, work, and play, as well as sociocultural norms. The social hierarchy refers to social status or social rank of individuals within larger society or a local community. INDIVIDUAL CHARACTERISTICS The prevalence of obesity varies according to key individual characteristics such as age, sex, race and ethnicity, and SES. The prevalence of obesity increases cross-sectionally across the lifespan: from 13.9%, in early childhood (2-5 years old) to 18.4% in childhood (6-11 years old), 20.6% in adolescence (12-19 years old), 35.7%, in young adulthood (20-39 years old), 42.8% in adulthood (40-59 years old), and 41.0% in older adulthood (≥60 years old) ( 4 ). As of 2016, the prevalence of adult obesity in women in the United States was 41.1% and in men was 37.9% ( 4 ). In the decade between 2007-2008 and 2015-2016, obesity significantly increased only in women ( 4 ), suggesting a sex-specific vulnerability to expression of this disease. Additionally, when race and ethnicity are considered, significant interactions between race and sex emerge. Non-Hispanic black, non-Hispanic Asian, and Hispanic women all have significantly higher prevalence of obesity than men with the same racial ethnic identity ( 5 ).
