Social and Environmental Factors Influencing Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, food, free, article, social, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, status, health, physical, activity, prevalence


between race and sex emerge. Non-Hispanic black, non-Hispanic Asian, and Hispanic women all have significantly higher prevalence of obesity than men with the same racial ethnic identity ( 5 ). In men and women, non-Hispanic Asians have significantly lower prevalence of obesity compared to all other major races and ethnicities in the United States (Note: not adjusted for ethnic specific cut points for Asians), and Non-Hispanic blacks and Hispanics have significantly higher prevalence of obesity compared to Non-Hispanic whites ( 5 ). It is not fully clear why differences in obesity prevalence by race and ethnicity are present, but some evidence points to differences in genetic backgrounds that affect body composition and fat distribution ( 6 , 7 ), and to differences in cultural body image standards ( 8 ). Additionally, in the United States, race and ethnicity are confounded with SES, which is one of the most potent indicators of overall health in the United States ( 9 ). A significantly greater proportion of underrepresented racial ethnic minorities are considered low SES compared to non-Hispanic Asians and non-Hispanic whites in the United States. Socioeconomic status is a composite measure that can be represented by measures of income, educational attainment, or occupational status. In the 2017 Census, 21.2% of non-Hispanic blacks and 18.3% of Hispanics lived below the poverty level compared to 8.7% of non-Hispanic whites and 10% of non-Hispanic Asians ( 10 ). Non-Hispanic Asians (53.9%) and non-Hispanic whites (36.2%) are more likely to earn a bachelor’s degree than non-Hispanic blacks (22.5%) and Hispanics (15.5%) ( 11 ). In terms of health, low SES in childhood is associated with adult development of cardiovascular risk factors and a 20% increase in the odds of having central obesity (as defined by a waist circumference >102 cm for men or > 88 cm for women) ( 12 ). In adult women, obesity prevalence increases with decreasing income and educational attainment; however, in non-Hispanic black women, obesity prevalence differs by education gradients but not by income gradients ( 13 ). Conversely, non-Hispanic black men have a higher prevalence of obesity in the highest income group, but all the men’s racial ethnic groups showed similar relationships between obesity rates and education gradients as women ( 13 ). Higher SES is also associated with healthy lifestyle behaviors that are often the first line of prevention or treatment for obesity. On the other hand, low SES
