Social and Environmental Factors Influencing Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, food, free, article, social, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, status, health, physical, activity, prevalence


( 13 ). Higher SES is also associated with healthy lifestyle behaviors that are often the first line of prevention or treatment for obesity. On the other hand, low SES is associated with less leisure time physical activity ( 14 ) and consumption of energy-dense diets that are nutrient poor ( 15 ); however, SES is not the only factor that influences these behaviors. Further exploration of how SES affects resources and the ability to practice healthy behaviors is expounded upon in the next section. ENVIRONMENTAL CHARACTERISTICS Geography Obesity prevalence differs by geographical region in the United States with the South and the Midwest having the highest level of obesity among adults ( 16 ). The Midwest and South also have high rates of diabetes and metabolic syndrome, which frequently accompany obesity ( 16 ). Approximately 55% of global increases in BMI can be attributed to rising BMI in rural areas, and this may be as high as 80% in low- and middle-income countries ( 17 ). Rural areas are associated with 1.36 higher odds of obesity compared to urban areas; however, mediation analysis shows that individual educational attainment, neighborhood median household income, and neighborhood-built environment features reduce these odds by 94% and render the relationship statistically insignificant ( 18 ). Rural areas tend to have farther distances between residences and supermarkets, clinical settings, and recreational opportunities, which may be impacting the ability to practice healthy behaviors that prevent obesity. This is one example of the “built environment”, which alludes to the infrastructure of a geographic area that influences proximity to and types of resources, transportation methods, and neighborhood quality. Food Availability The frequency and type of food vendors in a neighborhood determines the types of foods that residents can purchase. Historically, evidence has suggested that fast food restaurant density is associated with obesity prevalence. A state-level analysis of fast food restaurant density and the number of residents per restaurant accounted for 6% of the variance in state obesity prevalence ( 19 ). Individual-level factors can interact with built environmental factors (like fast food restaurant density) to increase the odds of obesity. For example, one study in older adults showed that residents who ate 1-2 times per week at a fast food restaurant (odds ratio [OR]: 1.878), did not meet current physical activity guidelines (OR: 1.792), had low self-efficacy for eating healthy food (OR: 1.212), or identified as non-Hispanic black
