Social and Environmental Factors Influencing Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, food, free, article, social, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, status, health, physical, activity, prevalence


fast food restaurant (odds ratio [OR]: 1.878), did not meet current physical activity guidelines (OR: 1.792), had low self-efficacy for eating healthy food (OR: 1.212), or identified as non-Hispanic black (OR: 8.057) and lived in a high density fast food neighborhood were more likely to have obesity than older adults who lived in a low density fast food neighborhood ( 20 ). On the other hand, recent research suggests that fast food restaurant density is not associated with obesity prevalence and the food consumed in these establishments’ accounts for less than 20% of the total energy intake ( 21 ). This could reflect the widespread availability of fast food nationally, which weakens the ability to dissect links between its presence and increased consumption specific to obesity. The term “food desert” is often used to describe areas with limited access to affordable and nutritious food (e.g. supermarkets) and these vary significantly according to neighborhood socioeconomic and racial/ethnic composition ( 22 , 23 ). Food desert designation has been positively linked to obesity in the United States and simply switching from a non-food desert census tract to a food desert census tract can increase the odds of obesity by 30%, when all other relevant factors are held constant ( 24 ). Conversely, access to supermarkets does not automatically result in healthier eating behavior and weight status. A systematic review showed that five out of six studies looking at supermarket access did not find increased fruit and vegetable consumption with greater accessibility; however, four out of five studies looking at changes in weight status found lower BMI and prevalence of obesity in areas with high access to supermarkets compared to low access areas ( 25 ). A large natural experiment found that the opening of a new supermarket improved overall diet quality in the neighborhood, but did not affect fruit and vegetable intake or BMI ( 26 ). Interestingly, the only positive outcome directly associated with regular use of the new supermarket was higher perceived access to healthy food ( 26 ). Although these findings are mixed, it is important to acknowledge that changes in food choices at a neighborhood level might occur too slowly to be captured in these studies. In addition to food availability and quality, the shift in food type, amount, and pricing is also relevant to the obesity epidemic. For example, available evidence strongly supports a greater risk of
