Social and Environmental Factors Influencing Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, food, free, article, social, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, status, health, physical, activity, prevalence


to food availability and quality, the shift in food type, amount, and pricing is also relevant to the obesity epidemic. For example, available evidence strongly supports a greater risk of weight gain and type 2 diabetes with increased consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages ( 27 ). North America still has the highest per capita sales of calorie sugar-sweetened beverages, but is slowly starting to shift to low-calorie sugar sweetened beverages, though sports and energy drink consumption continue to increase ( 28 ). Portion sizes in the most popular fast-food, take-out, and family style restaurants exceed current USDA and FDA standard-recommended portion amounts as well as what had been historically served in past decades ( 29 ). Increased portion sizes have been robustly linked to increases in energy intake in both adults and children; however, evidence is limited that decreasing portion size results in decreased energy intake ( 30 ). In addition, fast foods, snack foods, and foods available through convenience stores are typically ultra-processed (high in processed grains and added sugars; low in fiber and unsaturated fats). A recent study found that keeping macronutrient content the same, meals that were ultra-processed resulted in greater food intake and weight gain over a two-week follow-up compared to consumption of non-processed foods ( 31 ). Contributing to increased intake of fast-foods and ultra-processed foods is the marketing techniques implemented by food industries across multiple mediums. Though adults have shown to be less susceptible to the effects of food advertising, experimental studies with children produce a moderate effect size for increased food consumption after food advertising exposure ( 32 ). Food advertising targeted at children is focused on brand building and emotive messages may not be discerned as such by this vulnerable population ( 33 ). Another common misconception confronting consumers is that healthy foods are more expensive, but research suggests this perception is based on misleading price metrics as well as changes in fruit and vegetable convenience and level of preparedness ( 34 ). Price per calorie metrics show fruits and vegetables to be more expensive than less healthy foods; however, price per average portion and price per edible 100 grams actually shows that fruits and vegetables are less expensive ( 34 ). In times of financial constraint, socioeconomically disadvantaged groups maximize energy value for money resulting in energy-dense, nutrient poor diets that contribute to obesity ( 35 ). Transportation Infrastructure can dictate means
