Social and Environmental Factors Influencing Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, food, free, article, social, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, status, health, physical, activity, prevalence


times of financial constraint, socioeconomically disadvantaged groups maximize energy value for money resulting in energy-dense, nutrient poor diets that contribute to obesity ( 35 ). Transportation Infrastructure can dictate means of transportation and neighborhood walkability, which is associated with weight status. High neighborhood walkability has been found to be associated with decreased prevalence of overweight and obesity ( 36 ), which can link back to structural differences discussed earlier between urban and rural areas (urban areas having higher walkability). Transport-related physical activity decreased by 17.8% between 1965 and 2009 in the United States, which could be due to growing ubiquity of car ownership and supportive infrastructure for automotive transport in the United States ( 37 ). Proximity to recreational facilities, recreational facility density, access to sidewalks and paths that remove pedestrians from traffic hazards, and access to parks, have all been reported to be facilitators of physical activity in qualitative and quantitative research ( 38 , 39 ). The quality of infrastructure in a neighborhood and the perceived aesthetics of homes, shops, and recreational facilities can impact the use of these facilities. A study in a high-income neighborhood and a low-income neighborhood showed that even though the number of recreational facilities was equitable in the neighborhoods, the residents of the low-income neighborhood perceived that they had less access to recreational facilities ( 40 ). Additional neighborhood descriptors that are associated with obesity include neighborhood deprivation, disorder, and crime. Neighborhood deprivation, a composite score of socioeconomic position of individuals in a neighborhood that is used to assign a rank to that neighborhood, shows that high levels of deprivation are associated with a 20% increased odds of overweight ( 41 ). Neighborhood physical disorder refers to the presence of vandalism, abandoned lots or vehicles, garbage, and quality of building conditions. Women in an urban area with high neighborhood physical disorder have a 1.43 greater odds of obesity ( 42 ). Persons living in areas of high crime have a 28% reduced odds of achieving higher levels of physical activity and, conversely, perceived safety increases the odds of achieving higher levels of physical activity by 27% ( 43 ). Living in a neighborhood with high crime has been found to be associated with increased weekly snack consumption in women ( 42 ). The relevance of the neighborhood environment to obesity is further exemplified in the Moving to Opportunities Study ( 44 ). The
