Social and Environmental Factors Influencing Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, food, free, article, social, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, status, health, physical, activity, prevalence


increased weekly snack consumption in women ( 42 ). The relevance of the neighborhood environment to obesity is further exemplified in the Moving to Opportunities Study ( 44 ). The Department of Housing and Urban Development randomly assigned just under 5000 families in Chicago, Baltimore, Boston, Los Angeles, and New York public housing to 3 possible conditions: receive a housing voucher to move to a low-poverty census track with moving counseling, receive a standard unrestricted housing voucher and no moving counseling, or receive nothing. Despite the fact that this study was not focused on weight or diabetes outcomes, participants that received the voucher to move to a low-poverty census track had 4.61 percentage points lower prevalence of BMI > 35, BMI > 40, and glycated hemoglobin ≥ 6.5% than participants who received nothing ( 44 ), showing that a mere change in environment from high- to low-poverty rates was enough to have a significant impact. Work Environment and Advances in Communication Technology As the built environment and food environment have changed in the United States, so has the work environment. From 1960 to 2010, jobs in the U.S. private industry shifted from 50% requiring at least moderate to vigorous physical activity to less than 20% requiring this level of activity intensity ( 45 ). National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey data has documented an association between decreases in work-related energy expenditure and weight gain over the same time period ( 45 ). These changes in occupation related physical activity could be due to improvements in labor-saving technology. Technology advances are not confined to the work environment and have spread into many facets of daily life, such as improvements in smart personal communication devices, internet media platforms, marketing techniques, and enhanced audio-visual media. Studies show that marketing for unhealthy foods is often targeted at more vulnerable populations such as Non-Hispanic blacks ( 46 ) and Hispanics ( 47 ). Additionally, the availability of information about healthy weight-loss behaviors on the internet is poor when searched for in Spanish ( 48 ). “Screen time” or the time spent using technology that utilizes a screen interface has been found to be associated with increased risk for obesity ( 49 - 51 ); however, many app companies and academic researchers are now using that same technology to help with obesity prevention and treatment ( 52 - 54 ). SOCIAL HIERARCHY Animal research consistently shows
