Social and Environmental Factors Influencing Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, food, free, article, social, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, status, health, physical, activity, prevalence


many app companies and academic researchers are now using that same technology to help with obesity prevention and treatment ( 52 - 54 ). SOCIAL HIERARCHY Animal research consistently shows that animals of subordinate status experience adverse physiological and behavioral changes compared to their high status counterparts: higher levels of cortisol (primates) ( 55 ), elevated blood pressure (rats, rabbits, baboons, macaques) ( 56 ), elevated heart rate (primates) ( 56 ), accumulation of visceral fat (rats) ( 57 ), increased ad-libitum energy-dense food consumption (macaques, rats) ( 57 , 58 ), cardiovascular disease (mice) ( 59 ), and shortened lifespan (mice) ( 59 ). This implies that social standing, regardless of species, has physiological implications and could be contributing to obesity development and poor health. The findings from animal models thus serve as the basis for parallel outcomes reported in humans of low social status. Social status can be measured objectively or subjectively. Objective measures typically include socioeconomic status (SES) variables, such as income, education, or occupation, which were discussed as individual level factors at the beginning of this chapter. Social status can also be represented by manifestations of status differentials, including inequality between groups or measurable differences in the ability for someone to obtain basic life necessities, such as food security. High levels of absolute income/wealth may be related to health not only through better material conditions, but also through social position. However, in an analysis of two nationally representative British panel studies, ranked position of income/wealth, not absolute income/wealth, predicted adverse health outcomes such as obesity, presence of chronic disease, and poor ratings of physical functioning and pain ( 60 ). In a worldwide study of physical activity, countries with large activity inequality predicted obesity better than the total volume of physical activity within the country ( 61 ). Activity inequality is identified by calculating a Gini coefficient for population step count data from each country, 0 = complete equality, 1= complete inequality. Individuals in the top five countries for physical activity inequality (Saudi Arabia, USA, Egypt, Canada, Australia) were 196% more likely to have obesity than individuals from more equal societies that did not have large disparities in step counts across the population. Gender differences account for 43% of the inequality observed, however, this effect was mitigated in societies that rated higher in walkability ( 61 ). Inequality can also drive calorie consumption. Individuals who are
