Social and Environmental Factors Influencing Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, food, free, article, social, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, status, health, physical, activity, prevalence


for 43% of the inequality observed, however, this effect was mitigated in societies that rated higher in walkability ( 61 ). Inequality can also drive calorie consumption. Individuals who are experimentally induced to view themselves as poor in reference to others exhibited increased calorie intake ( 62 ). Additionally, individuals who believed they were poorer or wealthier than an interaction partner exhibited higher levels of anxiety in regards to that difference in status that, in turn, led to increased calorie consumption ( 62 ). Food insecurity affects approximately 11.8 percent of families in the United States and has been linked to obesity and diabetes. Food insecurity occurs when “the intake of one or more members of a household is reduced and eating patterns are disrupted (sometimes resulting in hunger) because of insufficient money and other resources for food” ( 63 ). In women, food insecurity status predicts overweight/obese status differentially across racial ethnic groups. Non-Hispanic white women who are food insecure are 41% more likely to have overweight or obesity whereas Hispanic women who are food insecure are 29% more likely to have overweight and obesity ( 64 ). Among non-Hispanic black women and men, food insecurity did not predict overweight or obesity status ( 64 ). A population-based study in Canada revealed that persons in food insecure households had double the risk of developing type 2 diabetes compared to persons in food secure households, even after controlling for age, gender, income, race, physical activity, smoking status, alcohol consumption, diet quality, and BMI ( 65 ). Reduced food availability is theorized to initiate compensatory biological mechanisms that boost caloric intake, decrease resting metabolic rate, and increase storage of adipose tissue as a protective mechanism for survival ( 66 ). Research in youth has provided evidence for a moderating effect of food insecurity on the relationship between income and subjective social status ( 67 ). This means that low income is more strongly associated with low subjective social status when the household is also food insecure. Subjective measures of social status (SSS) are typically measured by asking individuals to place themselves on 10-rung ladders based on where they perceive their rank within society and the community. Experimental evidence demonstrates a relationship between feelings of low social status and increased calorie intake. Cornil and Chandon showed that hometowns of National Football League teams consumed more calories after a team loss than hometowns
