Social and Environmental Factors Influencing Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, food, free, article, social, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, status, health, physical, activity, prevalence


between feelings of low social status and increased calorie intake. Cornil and Chandon showed that hometowns of National Football League teams consumed more calories after a team loss than hometowns of winning teams or of hometowns where teams didn’t play ( 68 ). Manipulations of social status in an experimental setting show that acute eating behavior post experimental manipulation consists of higher calorie food choices and higher total calorie intake in the low status group ( 69 ). Additionally, individuals randomized to a low social status condition, had increased levels of ghrelin, a hormone that stimulates appetite, as compared to the high social status condition, suggesting a physiological hunger response to low perceived social status ( 70 ). Studies of physical activity and SSS show that low SSS is associated with significantly lower levels of moderate to vigorous physical activity ( 71 , 72 ), which could contribute to a lower overall energy expenditure. Closely related to SSS are other perceptive representations of status differentials, such as perceived discrimination, which is associated with increased weight and BMI in women ( 73 ) and increased abdominal adiposity in non-Hispanic whites ( 74 ). Researchers have integrated individual and environmental factors into design and development of interventions to improve weight outcomes or weight-related behaviors (healthy eating, physical activity); however, not all of them are successful. For example, a study among low-income women with children in rural Mexico randomly assigned families to cash or in-kind transfers (food baskets) and found that women in the food basket and cash groups actually gained weight compared to women in the control group ( 75 ). This study and others that show weight gain occurring in spite of access to resources or poverty relief imply accounting for individual and environmental factors alone may not paint a complete picture of obesity development. Granted, it is important to consider that systemic environmental changes, such as placement of sidewalks or fruits and vegetables in a corner store, may not be adequately captured in a short time frame typical of academic studies. However, the small or nonexistent changes observed when resources are supplied warrants further investigation into deeper realms of social hierarchical constructs, as well as continued study of individual and environmental factors to improve treatment and prevention of obesity. CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS AND CONCLUSIONS Given the extent of the information on individual, environmental, and social hierarchy constraints on obesity development, it
