Social and Environmental Factors Influencing Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, food, free, article, social, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, status, health, physical, activity, prevalence


environmental factors to improve treatment and prevention of obesity. CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS AND CONCLUSIONS Given the extent of the information on individual, environmental, and social hierarchy constraints on obesity development, it is important to understand how these can merge with clinical care. It is evident that there is no one simple solution and effective care requires knowledge of these complex relationships and an integration between the health system and the surrounding community. For example, based on the knowledge that the social determinants of health can influence diabetes and its comorbidities, the American Diabetes Association recommends in its clinical guidelines that providers “assess the social context… and apply that information to treatment decisions” ( 76 ). In conjunction with recognition of the impact of social and environmental determinants on multiple chronic diseases, some researchers propose that “community vital signs” be integrated into the electronic health record (EHR) ( 77 ) and some community health centers have begun pilot testing a social determinants questionnaire in their HER ( 78 ). Knowledge provided by these “vital signs” and social determinants could help providers make appropriate lifestyle-tailored recommendations for the patient. Discussing context surrounding food in a patient’s life can provide insight into the realistic expectations for a patient’s diet. Food insecurity can be identified with a short two question screener ( 79 ) and implementation in clinics has shown that screening improves clinician awareness of food insecurity, helping to better understand the lengths to which it affects patient treatment ( 80 ). Positive responses from physicians after pilot testing that incorporates screening into clinical practice mitigates concerns that discussions about food security would be stigmatizing to the patient ( 80 ). Patients who identify as food insecure can be referred to local food banks or community programs that will connect patients with resources at a federal and community level. Patients that are finding it difficult to follow lifestyle modification recommendations to lose weight to prevent diabetes development may benefit from the Diabetes Prevention Program. The Diabetes Prevention Program is a lifestyle program focused on weight loss through dietary change and increased physical activity. While the overall weight loss was modest (~4% after 4 years), participants lowered their chances of developing diabetes by 58% during long-term follow-up ( 81 ). This program has been adapted for implementation and dissemination purposes and now the CDC’s National Diabetes Prevention (National DPP) program is available at almost 2,000
