Wang et al. BMC Public Health (2026) 26:453 BMC Public Health
KEYWORDS: liver, depression, ref, diseases, ref ref, disease, liver disease, liver diseases, study, maso, participants, association, chronic, model, risk


it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or v e c o m m o n .s o r g / l i c e n s e s / y b - n c - n d / 4 . 0. / Introduction Methods The World Health Organization (WHO) reports that Study population approximately 280 million people worldwide suffer from This study used data from the UK Biobank, a large depression. Depression is defined as a multidimensional cohort of over 502,370 participants aged 40–73, enrolled and heterogeneous condition that has a detrimental effect between 2006 and 2010. Participants provided informed psychosocial functions, often resulting in disability and approval from the North West Multi-Centre Research death . As society and the economy rapidly advance, Ethics Committee (REC reference: 16/NW/0382) and along with a faster-paced life and greater workplace com- was conducted in accordance with the principles of the petition, depression rates have been rising annually. This Declaration of Helsinki . This research has been con- has become a major public health issue and is expected ducted using the UK Biobank Resource under Applica- to be the second leading cause of disability by 2020, after tion Number 98124. heart disease . The global economic burden of diseases The initial study included 502,370 participants from the caused by depression ranks among the top five diseases UK Biobank. Participants were progressively excluded , accounting for 4% of the global burden of diseases based on the following criteria: (1) 2 cases with missing and 10% of the worldwide economic burden of non-fatal baseline depression information. (2) 9,795 participants diseases . with major adverse liver outcomes (MALO) or MASO at Liver disease represents a significant global public baseline (Stable1-2). (3) 108,499 participants with miss- deaths annually, or 4% of all deaths . It has a detrimen- ing and drinking status, BMI, triglycerides, and income tal impact on the quality of life of patients and creates a score). Ultimately, 384,074 participants were included in substantial economic burden. The spleen is the largest the main analysis. A detailed flow diagram of the partici- immune organ and center in the peripheral system, a hub pants
