Wang et al. BMC Public Health (2026) 26:453 BMC Public Health
KEYWORDS: liver, depression, ref, diseases, ref ref, disease, liver disease, liver diseases, study, maso, participants, association, chronic, model, risk


in substantial economic burden. The spleen is the largest the main analysis. A detailed flow diagram of the partici- immune organ and center in the peripheral system, a hub pants selection process is shown in Fig. 1. connecting the nervous system to the immune system , and plays a key role in immunity and inflamma- Assessment of depression tory processes. Psychological stress impacts periph- Participants were assessed for depression at baseline primarily via the autonomic nervous system and the related outcomes” field of the UK Biobank, correspond- hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, which regu- ing to International Classification of Diseases, 10th lates immune tissues such as the liver and spleen. These Revision (ICD-10) code F32 and F33. stress-induced responses promote pro-inflammatory processes through altered hematopoiesis and immune Ascertainment of incident liver and MASO events cell distribution . This neuroimmune crosstalk pro- The study results included various liver diseases and vides a plausible mechanism through which depression MASO. Liver disease diagnoses were based on the cri- may contribute to t he pathogenesis of hepatic and splenic teria of the International Classification of Diseases, 10th diseases. Revision (ICD-10) . We ultimately identified eight Research indicates a link between depression and nega- liver diseases (corresponding to ICD-10 codes K70-K77), tive liver outcomes. A Chinese cohort study of middle- namely alcoholic liver disease (K70), toxic liver disease aged and older adults revealed that increased depressive (K71), liver failure (K72), chronic hepatitis (K73), liver symptoms correlate with a higher prevalence of chronic fibrosis and cirrhosis (K74), other inflammatory liver liver disease (CLD) . An analysis of 2017–2020 diseases (K75), other liver diseases (K76), and liver dis- NHANES data revealed that PHQ-9 depression scores eases classified under other disease categories (K77). The are independently linked to MAFLD in U.S. adults . spleen is the largest lymphoid organ, performing exten- Additionally, a meta-analysis from 1990 to 2016 suggests sive immune functions whilst also playing a vital role in a small positive correlation between depression and the hematopoiesis and the clearance of aged or damaged red overall incidence of cancer, as well as the risk of liver blood cells. Notably, whether splenic hyperfunction or and lung cancer . Previous studies have focused on hypofunction occurs, it frequently culminates in hemato- the association between depression and single liver dis- logical disorders—initially manifesting as reduced hema- ease, and this study is the first to systematically evaluate topoietic cell counts, morphological abnormalities, or
