Wang et al. BMC Public Health (2026) 26:453 BMC Public Health
KEYWORDS: liver, depression, ref, diseases, ref ref, disease, liver disease, liver diseases, study, maso, participants, association, chronic, model, risk


the association between depression and single liver dis- logical disorders—initially manifesting as reduced hema- ease, and this study is the first to systematically evaluate topoietic cell counts, morphological abnormalities, or the relationship between depression and eight indepen- coagulation defects. These manifestations constitute not dent liver diseases, significantly broadening the exist- only key indicators of splenic pathology but also the most ing knowledge boundaries. In addition, the association severe complications directly impacting patient prog- between depression and MASO has not been explored – nosis . Consequently, MASO encompasses not only this study fills that gap. primary splenic diseases but also specific hematological Fig. 1 Flowchart of study participants and hematopoietic organ disorders. See Supplementary the analysis. Lastly, conduct a stratified analysis by sex, Material Stable2 for details. ethnicity, income score, history of hypertension, and diabetes. Covariates Two-sided P < 0.05 was considered as statistically sig- medical conditions . Sociodemographic status, version 4.4.1. Results degree, A levels, O levels, CSEs, NVQ or HNC, other), and income score (England). Health-related factors Baseline characteristics included self-reported smoking status (never, previ- The study included a total of 384,074 participants. ous, current), alcohol intake frequency (never, occa- Among these, 208,639 were females, the mean ± standard sionally, one to three times a month, one or twice a deviation of age was 57.06 ± 8.10 years. Table 1 shows the week, three or four times a week and all days), dietary baseline characteristics of the participants, with signifi- pattern(consumption of vegetable [little, moderate, large, cant differences between depression and non-depression excessive], consumption of fruit [little, moderate, large, groups in terms of age, sex, ethnicity, education level, excessive], consumption of beef [little, moderate, large, smoking status, frequency of alcohol consumption, BMI, excessive] and physical activity levels (low, moderate, history of hypertension and diabetes, and triglycerides. high). Self-reported physician-diagnosed medical con- ditions (diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular comor- Association between depression with multiple liver bidities and triglycerides). Body mass index (BMI) was diseases calculated according to weight and standing height. For During a median follow-up of 14.52 years, 16,183 partici- information on cardiovascular disease, dietary patterns, pants developed liver diseases. The case numbers for spe- and physical activity levels, please refer to the Supple- cific types were as follows: alcoholic liver disease (1,156), mentary materials. toxic liver disease (122), hepatic failure (843), chronic hepatitis (98), fibrosis and cirrhosis of the liver (1,542), Statistical analysis other inflammatory liver diseases 1,237), other diseases
