Wang et al. BMC Public Health (2026) 26:453 BMC Public Health
KEYWORDS: liver, depression, ref, diseases, ref ref, disease, liver disease, liver diseases, study, maso, participants, association, chronic, model, risk


liver diseases α) may circulate systemically through the bloodstream and other diseases of liver. These findings remained and eventually reach peripheral organs, with the liver robust in sensitive analyses. and spleen being the main targets due to their specific Depression is a common mental illness characterized immune properties. And depressive symptoms have been by feelings of sadness, guilt, despair, helplessness, loss of shown to increase IL-10, which is thought to trigger a interest in previously enjoyable activities, disturbed sleep feedback mechanism that suppresses liver inflammation cytopenia or fulminant sepsis . Although research on . the association between depression and MASO remains The liver is a unique anatomical and immune site. Lym- limited, evidence suggests depression may amplify this phocyte populations in the liver are selectively enriched risk through two pathways. Firstly, depression itself is in natural killer cells and natural killer T cells, which play accompanied by chronic low-grade systemic inflamma- a critical role in first-line immune defense against patho- tion: elevated serum pro-inflammatory factors, disrupted gen invasion, modulation of liver injury, and circulating myeloid-lymphoid hematopoiesis, and compromised lymphocyte recruitment . In the absence of infection, intestinal epithelial and blood-brain barrier integrity excessive inflammation can lead to aseptic liver injury, can all directly damage the splenic immune microenvi- tissue damage, and remodeling; inadequate immunity ronment [28–30]. Secondly, dysregulation of the brain- can lead to chronic infection and cancer . Dynamic spleen neuroimmune circuit: reduced vagal stimulation interactions between the numerous immune cell popula- leads to insufficient acetylcholine release by spleen cho- tions in the liver are key to maintaining this balance and line acetyltransferase-positive T cells, diminishing the overall tissue health. The inflammatory response is preva- anti-inflammatory signal mediated by α7nAChR on mac- lent in all stages of liver disease and is associated with the rophages and resulting in excessive pro-inflammatory presence and progression of liver fibrosis, cirrhosis and cytokine production . Consequently, depression not hepatocellular carcinoma . It has been demonstrated only compromises overall immune defenses and height- that both HBV infection and depression are associated ens infection risk but may also precipitate or exacer- with chronic inflammation, and their co-existence may bate splenic dysfunction and associated hematological aggravate chronic inflammation and lead to subsequent disorders. liver damage [29–31]. Moreover, severe depression will increase mental Chronic stress is associated with hepatic steatosis and pressure and psychological stress, making the nervous, hepatic inflammatory markers, including macrophage endocrine, and other systems
