Wang et al. BMC Public Health (2026) 26:453 BMC Public Health
KEYWORDS: liver, depression, ref, diseases, ref ref, disease, liver disease, liver diseases, study, maso, participants, association, chronic, model, risk


Moreover, severe depression will increase mental Chronic stress is associated with hepatic steatosis and pressure and psychological stress, making the nervous, hepatic inflammatory markers, including macrophage endocrine, and other systems in a state of high tension infiltration and expression of pro-inflammatory cyto- [32–34]. Subsequently, these physiological reactions may kines and chemokines such as IL6, TNF and Chemokine affect the physiological function of the liver and spleen, (C-C motif) Ligand 2 (CCL2). One of the most critical promoting the occurrence and development of liver and functions of the liver is the storage of glucose in the form spleen diseases . Some risky behaviors, such as of glycogen during feeding and the assembly of glucose insufficient exercise, obesity, are more prevalent among via the gluconeogenesis pathway, the oxidation of lipids, depressed patients , which may increase the inci- the encapsulation of excess lipids, and their secretion dence of liver and spleen diseases. Thus, depression may for storage in other tissues, such as fat . Pro-inflam- contribute to these diseases through its negative impact matory polarization of immune cells in the liver leads on health behaviors. directly to insulin resistance, which is a key component Our findings are consistent with those of multiple stud- of the hepatic response to nutrient overload. It is char- ies. For example, a meta-analysis of randomized con- acterized by an impaired ability of insulin to reduce net trolled trials from Mendel confirmed that depression hepatic glucose output, and although insulin loses its increases the risk of developing MASLD . Another inhibitory effect on hepatic glucose output, the stimula- study showed that depressive symptoms and anxiety tory effect of insulin on lipogenesis is maintained. This increase the risk of chronic hepatitis B virus infection “selective insulin resistance” is thought to contribute and reactivation of latent infection . The results of a to pathologies such as metabolic syndrome, MASLD, recent meta-analysis found a small positive association and cardiovascular disease . Chronic inflammation- between depression and the risk of liver cancer, with a induced hepatocellular insulin resistance is evidenced by corresponding relative risk (95% CI) of 1.20 (1.01–1.43) Mendelian randomization showing genetically predicted . In addition, the relationship between depression depression positively associates with non-alcoholic fatty and spleen disease has also been confirmed in animal liver disease (OR 1.46, 95% CI 1.15–1.85) and alcoholic experiments. Results from an experimental study showed liver disease (OR 1.44, 95% CI 1.12–1.85) . that, a
