Wang et al. BMC Public Health (2026) 26:453 BMC Public Health
KEYWORDS: liver, depression, ref, diseases, ref ref, disease, liver disease, liver diseases, study, maso, participants, association, chronic, model, risk


been confirmed in animal liver disease (OR 1.46, 95% CI 1.15–1.85) and alcoholic experiments. Results from an experimental study showed liver disease (OR 1.44, 95% CI 1.12–1.85) . that, a subset of rodents exposed to chronic variable This study confirms that depression is associated with stress (CVS) or chronic social defeat stress (CSDS) also an increased risk of MASO. The spleen, as the largest have higher levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines and secondary lymphoid organ, is frequently affected not only chemokines, such as Interleukin 1 Alpha(IL1α), Interleu- by primary lesions such as vascular congestion or cellular kin 1 Beta(IL1β), IL6, Interleukin 12(IL12), TNF, CCL2, infiltration, but also by hematological disorders (includ- and Chemokine (C-C motif) Ligand 5 (CCL5), in the ing hereditary spherocytosis and autoimmune hemolytic bloodstream compared to unstressed control mice and anemia). This involvement manifests as hyper- or hypo- stress-resilient mice . function, leading to adverse outcomes such as secondary PHQ-9 P atient Health Questionnaire-9 Strengths and limitations MREC M ulti-Centre research Ethics Committee This study offers several key advantages. First, it is the TNF T umor necrosis factor TNF-α T umor necrosis factor-α first large-scale retrospective study to systematically WHO W orld Health Organization investigate the association of depression with eight specific liver and MASO. Second, it based on the com- Supplementary Information prehensive UK Biobank cohort, which is large-scale, lon- The online version contains supplementary material available at h t t p s : / / d o i . o r gitudinally, and multi-ethnic followed-up. Nonetheless, g / 1 0 . 1 1 8 6 / s 1 2 8 8 9 - 0 2 5 - 2 6 1 1 6 - 3. there are also some limitations. Firstly, the proportion of missing covariates was 28.25%, a non-negligible figure Supplementary Material 1. that could potentially reduce statistical power and intro- duce information bias. Nevertheless, sensitivity analy- Acknowledgements ses employing multiple imputation methods revealed We thank all investigators and participants of the UK Biobank. no change in the direction or significance of findings, Authors’ contributions indicating robust and reliable conclusions. Secondly, J.W: designed the study and wrote the manuscript; K.L: performed the although our study excluded sensitivity analyses with statistical analyzes; JR. W: participated in revising and embellishing the follow-up durations of less than 2 and 5 years, it must be language of the manuscript; YL. W and JH. Z: contributed to the data interpretation; ZY.
