Wang et al. BMC Public Health (2026) 26:453 BMC Public Health
KEYWORDS: liver, depression, ref, diseases, ref ref, disease, liver disease, liver diseases, study, maso, participants, association, chronic, model, risk


and embellishing the follow-up durations of less than 2 and 5 years, it must be language of the manuscript; YL. W and JH. Z: contributed to the data interpretation; ZY. L and XJ. M: contributed to the replication of the findings; acknowledged that the follow-up period remains rela- P.C and JP. L: contributed to the manuscript editing. tively short. Given the slow progression of liver disease, a longer observation period may be required to fully cap- Funding none. ture late-stage outcomes. These factors suggest that our findings should be interpreted as reflecting the mid-term Data availability rather than the lifetime disease course. Future studies All data supporting the UKB study were obtained from the UK Biobank and were accessed under Application Number 98124. with longer follow-up periods and multiple longitudinal assessments will help validate our observations. In addi- Declarations tion, the vast majority of people in the UK biobank were white people, which limits the generalization of the Ethics approval and consent to participate findings. Participants provided informed consent, and the UK Biobank study received ethical approval from the North West Multi-Centre Research Ethics Committee (REC reference: 16/NW/0382) and was conducted in accordance with the Conclusions principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. The findings of this study indicate that depression is asso- Consent for publication ciated with an increased risk of multiple liver diseases The manuscript is approved by all authors for publication. and MASO. Therefore, in addition to timely standard treatment and social and psychological intervention, Competing interests The authors declare no competing interests. the liver and spleen function of patients with long-term depression should also be included in routine follow-up Received: 31 December 2024 / Accepted: 24 December 2025 to identify and reduce related risks at an early stage. Abbreviations MASO M ajor adverse spleen outcomes MALO M ajor adverse liver outcomes References ALD A lcohol-related liver disease 1. Organization WH. Depressive disorder (depression). h t t p s : / / w w w w . h o i n t / n e BBB Blood-brain barrier w s - r o o m / f a c t - s h e e t s / d e t a i l /depression Accessed 20 July 2025 2023. CCL-2 C hemokine (C-C motif) Ligand 2 2. Atkins R. Self-efficacy and the promotion of health for depressed single CCL-5 C hemokine (C-C motif) Ligand 5 mothers. Mental
