www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: infections, bacterial, viral, calprotectin, pneumonia, respiratory, patients, mycoplasma, viral infections, hbp, infection, procalcitonin, diagnosis, respiratory infections, biomarkers


open calprotectin, a new biomarker for diagnosis of acute respiratory infections Aleksandra Havelka1,2, Kristina Sejersen3, per Venge3, Karlis pauksens4 & Anders Larsson3* Respiratory tract infections require early diagnosis and adequate treatment. With the antibiotic overuse and increment in antibiotic resistance there is an increased need to accurately distinguish between bacterial and viral infections. We investigated the diagnostic performance of calprotectin in respiratory tract infections and compared it with the performance of heparin binding protein (HBp) and procalcitonin (pct). Biomarkers were analyzed in patients with viral respiratory infections and patients with bacterial pneumonia, mycoplasma pneumonia and streptococcal tonsillitis (n = 135). Results were compared with values obtained from 144 healthy controls. All biomarkers were elevated in bacterial and viral infections compared to healthy controls. Calprotectin was significantly increased in patients with bacterial infections; bacterial pneumonia, mycoplasma pneumonia and streptococcal tonsillitis compared with viral infections. PCT was significantly elevated in patients with bacterial pneumonia compared to viral infections but not in streptococcal tonsillitis or mycoplasma caused infections. HBp was not able to distinguish between bacterial and viral causes of infections. the overall clinical performance of calprotectin in the distinction between bacterial and viral respiratory infections, including mycoplasma was greater than performance of pct and HBp. Rapid determination of calprotectin may improve the management of respiratory tract infections and allow more precise diagnosis and selective use of antibiotics. Acute respiratory infections are common worldwide, and in many countries constitute a major cause of mortality and morbidity1. The underlying pathogenetic agents behind acute respiratory infections vary geographically2, but the clinical importance of early diagnosis is universal. Two major reasons for the importance of early diagnosis are firstly to minimize time from start of symptom until initiation of proper medical therapy to reduce risks of protracted infection, sepsis/mortality, and late sequelae3. A second reason is to avoid improper use of antibiotics in cases where this is not indicated, emphasized by an increased universal problem with antibiotic resistance4. Within a few years after the discovery of penicillin, resistance to penicillin was observed and today antibiotic resistance has become a substantial clinical problem5. Bacterial infections have thus again reoccurred as a major threat to our health. To preserve the effectiveness of antibiotics it is important to use antibiotics more selectively and avoid unnecessary use. Biomarkers, which in early stage of an infection can distinguish between bacterial and viral infection could lead to a more selective use of
