www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: infections, bacterial, viral, calprotectin, pneumonia, respiratory, patients, mycoplasma, viral infections, hbp, infection, procalcitonin, diagnosis, respiratory infections, biomarkers


antibiotics more selectively and avoid unnecessary use. Biomarkers, which in early stage of an infection can distinguish between bacterial and viral infection could lead to a more selective use of antibiotics3. Since isolation of the disease-causing microorganism is usually too time consuming to be useful for early diagnosis, other biomarkers are used clinically to distinguish viral infections not requiring antibiotic treatment from bacterial infections in early phases of the infection. Such biomarkers usually include a combination of white blood cell count, neutrophil count, C-reactive protein, and less frequently procalcitonin (PCT), heparin binding protein (HBP) or calprotectin6,7. Procalcitonin (PCT) is a precursor to the hormone calcitonin, the latter being involved in calcium homeostasis. Together with CRP, white blood cells and neutrophils, procalcitonin is one of the markers most widely used to distinguish between bacterial and viral infections8. Heparin binding protein (HBP) and calprotectin are expressed mainly in neutrophil granulocytes9,10. HBP is stored in azurophil granules while calprotectin is stored in the cytosol11,12. Both are used as markers of neutrophil activation. Calprotectin is one of the most abundant proteins in the cytosol of neutrophil granulocytes, where it accounts for 40–50% of the total protein content. Calprotectin Scientific RepoRtS | (2020) 10:4208 | 1 www.nature.com/scientificreports/ www.nature.com/scientificreports No. of patients with Age (median and Type of infection confirmed etiology range) (% male) Viral 40 48.0 ± 20.1 (49%) Bacterial pneumonia 34 64.4 ± 15.8 (47%) Mycoplasma pneumonia 24 40 ± 15.5 (42%) Streptococcal tonsillitis 37 34.1 ± 10.6 (32%) Table 1. Patients with signs and symptoms of acute respiratory infections with confirmed etiology. Viral respiratory disease: Influenza A (n = 19), RSV (n = 5), Influenza B (n = 4), CMV (n = 2), Rhinovirus (n = 2), VZV (n = 2), Coronavirus (n = 1), Parainfluenza (n = 1), Dengue (n = 1), HSV (n = 1). Bacterial pneumonia: Pneumococcus (Streptococcus pneumoniae) (n = 23) and H. influenzae (n = 11). is released upon activation and turnover of neutrophils and is recognized as an important marker for neutrophil mediated inflammation13. Bacterial and viral infections cause an acute phase response which will counterattack the infection and reduce the damage. The infection leads to an activation of the innate immune system which is an early defense mecha- nism. The major functions of the innate immunity include the recruitment of immune cells to the site of infection, activation of the complement cascade and activation of white
