www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: infections, bacterial, viral, calprotectin, pneumonia, respiratory, patients, mycoplasma, viral infections, hbp, infection, procalcitonin, diagnosis, respiratory infections, biomarkers


defense mecha- nism. The major functions of the innate immunity include the recruitment of immune cells to the site of infection, activation of the complement cascade and activation of white blood cells to eliminate the microorganisms. This is a rapid process and the neutrophil is the first cell to reach the affected location14. Neutrophil activation markers will be released from the neutrophils upon activation. These activation markers are stored in granulae or cyto- plasm and can be rapidly released from the neutrophils15. As there is no need for de novo synthesis, a neutrophil marker should be an earlier marker of neutrophil activation caused by bacterial infections in comparison with formation of new white blood cells or synthesis of proteins. The aim of this study was to investigate the performance of calprotectin as a marker for bacterial infections and its possibility to distinguish between bacterial, mycoplasma, and viral respiratory tract infections. Results patient characterization. Serum and plasma samples were collected from patients with fever of >38 °C and symptoms of respiratory infections and from asymptomatic healthy subjects. Infected patients were classified as having a bacterial, mycoplasma or viral cause of their disease. The primary study group included patients with confirmed etiology of respiratory infections. The study group consisted of 279 subjects (144 asymptomatic healthy controls, 71 with bacterial infections, 24 with mycoplasma infections and 40 with viral infections) (Table 1). Diagnostic performances of calprotectin, procalcitonin and heparin binding protein (HBp). The distribution of Calprotectin, Procalcitonin, and HBP concentrations in patients with respiratory tract infections, separated by verified clinical diagnosis is presented in Fig. 1. Compared to healthy subjects, all three biomarkers were significantly elevated in all diagnostic groups (***P < 0.001). Calprotectin levels were significantly higher in patients with bacterial pneumonia, mycoplasma pneumonia (zzz, p < 0.001) and Streptococcal tonsillitis (z, p < 0.05) compared to levels in patients with viral infections. Concentration of PCT in bacterial pneumonia was significantly higher (zzz, p < 0.001) than the concentration in the viral group, whereas the levels in Streptococcal tonsillitis and in Mycoplasma pneumoniae were not signif- icantly different compared to levels in patients with viral infections. HBP concentration was not significantly dif- ferent in mycoplasma and bacterial infections compared to viral infections. The results are summarized in Table 2. Figure 2 shows ROC curves and diagnostic performance of all three biomarkers in differentiation between bacterial pneumonia (Fig. 2a), mycoplasma pneumonia (Fig. 2b)
