www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: infections, bacterial, viral, calprotectin, pneumonia, respiratory, patients, mycoplasma, viral infections, hbp, infection, procalcitonin, diagnosis, respiratory infections, biomarkers


a powerful tool for ruling out patients with bacterial infections. In viral infections, however, the considerable overlap with bacterial infections, indicated that CRP is less useful in this distinction3,24–27. This study has certain limitations. It is a single-center study with limited number of patients in different diagnostic groups. However, all diagnoses are well defined and confirmed by X-ray, blood/tissue cultures and/or Scientific RepoRtS | (2020) 10:4208 | 4 www.nature.com/scientificreports/ www.nature.com/scientificreports AUROC (95% CI) Diagnosis Calprotectin HBP PCT Bacterial pneumonia 0.76 (0.67–0.86) 0.64 (0.52–0.74)* 0.74 (0.63–0.82) Mycoplasma pneumonia 0.88 (0.77–0.95) 0.52 (0.40–0.64)*** 0.53 (0.41–0.65)*** Table 3. The AUROC results for the three biomarkers are summarized for distinction between bacterial and mycoplasma pneumonia vs respiratory viral infections. ***p<0.001, *p<0.05, calprotectin vs other biomarkers in differentiation between bacterial, mycoplasma and viral infections. PCR analysis. Our data suggest that measuring plasma calprotectin in patients with suspected respiratory infec- tions is feasible, with possibility for fast test results. The results of this study may aid in the design of the future studies. In the present study we used plasma samples for the determination of calprotectin and HBP as the coagulation process necessary for preparing serum samples causes activation of neutrophils and could thus lead to elevated levels of calprotectin and HBP when analyzed in serum. PCT should not be affected by the coagulation process and was thus analyzed in serum samples. The HBP assay is a microtiter-based ELISA which is associated with very long test turnaround times as the test format requires collection of a number of samples prior to testing. The available commercial procalcitonin assays are either microtiter based or developed for specific assay platforms and these platforms are not available in all laboratories. This means that the samples may have to be sent to another laboratory for testing which also increases the time until the test results are available. The calprotectin assay used was a particle enhanced turbidimetric assay (PETIA) with an assay time of 10 min. PETIA is a tech- nology that can be applied on routine chemistry analyzers available at most hospital laboratories allowing short test turnaround times. In comparison with ELISA it is designed for measuring single samples, and thus, shortens the analysis times significantly. This is important as bacterial infections are acute condition that requires rapid test results. In conclusion, calprotectin and procalcitonin performed better than HPB in distinguishing between pneumonia and tonsillitis caused by bacteria and viral infections.
