www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: infections, bacterial, viral, calprotectin, pneumonia, respiratory, patients, mycoplasma, viral infections, hbp, infection, procalcitonin, diagnosis, respiratory infections, biomarkers


infections are acute condition that requires rapid test results. In conclusion, calprotectin and procalcitonin performed better than HPB in distinguishing between pneumonia and tonsillitis caused by bacteria and viral infections. Furthermore, calprotectin was superior to HBP and procalcitonin in distinguishing between respiratory infections caused by mycoplasma and viruses in primary care and infectious disease unit patients. Our results indicate that calprotectin is altogether more sensitive than HBP and procalcitonin in distinguishing bacterial and mycoplasma from viral cause of respiratory infections. Methods patients. The inclusion criteria for patients in the study were fever of >38 °C and signs and symptoms of res- piratory infection. The inclusion and diagnosis of the patients have been described in detail previously24. The exclusion criterion was known chronic viral infection, such as human immunodeficiency virus infection or hepatitis. In addition, children age <18 years and patients who could not give informed consent were excluded from this study. The patients were admitted to the infectious disease department at the University Hospital in Uppsala or to a primary care unit in Uppsala. A blood sample was drawn before the start of antibiotic treatment. The study was approved by the Uppsala Regional Ethics Committee, Uppsala, Sweden. All parts of the study were performed in accordance with the ethical approval24 and Swedish and European regulations. All participants gave informed consent prior to inclusion in the study. In this study 144 healthy individuals and 135 patients with a confirmed etiology of their acute respiratory infection were included. Of these patients, 95 had a bacterial infection and 40 had a viral infection. The 144 healthy controls consisted of 57 males (age 41.3 ± 12.7 years, mean ± SD) and 87 females (age 45.0 ± 12.8 years, mean ± SD). The age and gender distribution of the confirmed infections are shown in Table 1. and CRP levels, and verified with objective tests used in the routine diagnostics. In the pneumonia group, the diagnosis was verified with a positive chest X-ray and supported by positive culture or PCR test from the lower respiratory tract samples. The diagnosis of respiratory tract infection with viruses, for example, influenza A/B and atypical pneumonia, such as mycoplasma pneumonia, was supported by PCR testing of samples from the respiratory tract. Viral infections, such as dengue fever, Epstein-Barr virus, or cytomegalovirus infection, were supported by IgG/IgM serology results. The diagnosis of bacterial infections was supported by cultures from the respiratory
