Heart in systemic disease
KEYWORDS: heart, disease, cardiomyopathy, failure, heart failure, cause, aortic, effusion, pericardial, cardiac, syndrome, systemic, coronary, pericardial effusion, fever


due to the gen- eral disease of cystic fibrosis. Recurrent pulmonary embolism. Primary pulmonary hypertension. Rheumatic fever Rheumatic fever is now very uncommon in Western Europe, although it is still seen in other parts of the world, especially Africa.[3] Rheumatic fever may cause disease of the mitral valve and/or the aortic valve. This is usually mitral stenosis or aortic stenosis but mitral regurgitation or aortic regurgitation may occur alone or in combination. Acute rheumatic fever is also associated with myocarditis, which can be severe. A soft, rumbling, mid-diastolic murmur, called the Carey Coombs' murmur, may be heard during active disease. Severe disease is associated with a greater risk of recurrence. Other causes of valvular heart disease As rheumatic fever appears to be confined to history, at least in the UK, other causes of disease of heart valves take importance. Many are congenital heart disease. Ankylosing spondylitis may be associated with aortic regurgitation. Incompetent valves, including mitral valve prolapse may occur with a number of the hypermobility syndromes, including Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, Marfan's syn- drome, Down's syndrome and joint hypermobility syndrome. Marfan's syndrome may cause aortic regurgitation and even aortic aneurysm at the root. 4/9 Another cause of aneurysm of the proximal aorta with aortic regurgitation is ter- tiary syphilis. Heart valves may be affected in many systemic autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, SLE, antiphospholipid antibody syndrome, the seronegative spondyloarthropathies, the systemic vasculitides and scleroderma.[4] Any damage or abnormality of the heart or valves makes them susceptible to suba- cute bacterial endocarditis. Acute bacterial endocarditis can occur when drug ad- dicts inject themselves with heavily infected material. Pericardial disease See the separate Acute Pericarditis, Chronic Pericarditis and Pericardial Effusion articles. These are often associated with systemic disease and they are often in- flammatory diseases or infections. Constrictive pericarditis may impair adequate filling of the heart. Tuberculosis is one possible cause. Pericardial effusion can further constrict the heart and cause cardiac tamponade. Cardiomyopathy Cardiomyopathy is discussed much more fully in the separate Cardiomyopathies article. They may be primary or due to other disease. Many systemic diseases may cause cardiomyopathy, including: Sarcoidosis. Metabolic: diabetes, amyloidosis, Wilson's disease, haemochromatosis, glyco- gen storage diseases. Drugs and poisons: Around 7 or 8 units of alcohol (>80g) a day for at least five years are required to develop cardiomyopathy.[5] However, it is probably an underdiagnosed cause and may represent 30% of dilated cardiomyopathy. Women are sus- ceptible
