Heart in systemic disease
KEYWORDS: heart, disease, cardiomyopathy, failure, heart failure, cause, aortic, effusion, pericardial, cardiac, syndrome, systemic, coronary, pericardial effusion, fever


a day for at least five years are required to develop cardiomyopathy.[5] However, it is probably an underdiagnosed cause and may represent 30% of dilated cardiomyopathy. Women are sus- ceptible at a lower dose than men. High consumption of alcohol also leads to hypertension. Many other substances have been implicated. Examples include cocaine, amphetamines, chemotherapy for malignancy.[6] 5/9 Cardiomyopathy may occur in patients on long-term dialysis. Endocrine disease: acromegaly, phaeochromocytoma, diabetes mellitus (ma- ternal diabetes can also have an adverse effect on the developing fetal heart), [7] hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism. Connective tissue disorders: systemic sclerosis (may cause myocarditis or peri- cardial effusion), rheumatoid arthritis (can cause pericardial effusion, valvulitis and myocardial fibrosis), SLE (is associated with pericarditis, hypertension, an in- creased risk of coronary heart disease and Libman-Sacks endocarditis). Infections: acute viral infection (especially Coxsackie B), South American try- panosomiasis (Chagas' disease), hepatitis B, HIV infection. Nutritional: malnutrition, vitamin B1 deficiency, obesity. Myopathies: Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Becker's muscular dystrophy. Malignant disease Metastatic spread of malignancy to the heart is far more common than primary cardiac tumours.[8] The most common clinical presentation is from pericardial effusion, tachyarrhythmias, atrioventricular block and congestive heart failure. Tumours most likely to metastasise to the heart are malignant melanoma, leukaemia, malignant germ cell tumours and malignant thymoma. Although carcinoma of the lung and breast do not often metastasise to the heart, because of the very high numbers, they account for the greatest numbers of cardiac metastases. Carcinoma of the lung can also cause atrial fibrillation in the absence of metastatic spread to the heart. Central nervous system ECG abnormalities and rhythm disorders often occur in patients with subarach- noid haemorrhage and in cases of ischaemic stroke, intracranial haemorrhage, head trauma, neurosurgical procedures, acute meningitis, intracranial space- occupying tumours and epilepsy. New-onset atrial fibrillation has been reported in up to one third of patients with acute stroke. 6/9 Renal disease Abnormalities of renal function may affect the heart in a number of ways: Renal impairment may impair the clearance of drugs that are potentially car- diotoxic, such as digoxin. Electrolyte disturbances associated with acute kidney injury or chronic kidney disease may cause cardiac abnormalities, particularly hypokalaemia, hyper- kalaemia, hypercalcaemia and hypocalcaemia. Other electrolytes, including magnesium, may also be important. Chronic kidney disease may result in pericardial effusion. Long-term dialysis may cause cardiomyopathy.[9] Kidney disease may lead to hypertensive cardiac disease. Assessment If there is any suspicion that the
