HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lps, reflux, manuscript, author, author manuscript, symptoms, monitoring, esophageal, lprd, manuscript author, patients, therapy, laryngeal, diagnostic, gerd


reflux monitoring modalities, 24h pH-impedance and 96h wireless pH monitoring, are not mutually exclusive with distinct roles for the evaluation of LPS. Laryngeal hyperresponsiveness and hypervigilance commonly contribute to both LPS and LPRD presentations and are responsive to laryngeal recalibration therapy and neuromodulators. Conclusions: The San Diego Consensus represents the formal modern-day inter-disciplinary care paradigm to evaluate and manage LPS and LPRD. INTRODUCTION The term “laryngopharyngeal reflux” (“LPR”) is used widely in clinical practice and research, both as a descriptor of proximal esophageal and aerodigestive symptoms as well as a diagnosis1, 2. Despite the lack of finite diagnostic criteria, LPR accounts for as much as 10% of otolaryngology and gastroenterology visits3. Health care costs of LPR are reported to be 5.4 times higher than for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), partly from prolonged acid suppression trials and diagnostic uncertainty4. There is a significant negative impact on quality of life, with higher rates of anxiety, depression and impaired social functioning regardless of whether LPR is diagnosed based on symptoms or objective testing5–8. However, life-threatening long-term sequelae from “LPR”, such as cancer, are infrequent9. While a variety of symptoms are attributed to the retrograde flow of gastric contents to the upper aerodigestive tract1, 2, in actuality, few laryngopharyngeal symptoms (LPS) are Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 April 08. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript directly linked to this mechanism10, 11. Evidence of GERD is not uniformly present, despite the categorization of “LPR” as part of extraesophageal GERD12. As many as 60% of patients diagnosed with “LPR” have normal objective ambulatory reflux monitoring studies, which challenges the theory that reflux is the mechanism underlying most presentations13 and suggests that objective evidence of reflux (LPR disease [LPRD]) is low. A modern care paradigm for LPS, supported by otolaryngology and gastroenterology disciplines, is critically needed. Thus, an international inter-disciplinary group aimed to develop evidence-based recommendations for the evaluation and management of LPS. METHODS The 28-member international inter-disciplinary working group included 12 esophageal expert gastroenterologists/physiologists (GIs), 9 laryngologists (ENTs), 6 speech-language initiative (October 2023 to October 2024) comprised seven working group meetings: five virtual and two hybrid with in-person meetings in Hong Kong and Austria as well as several rounds of independent voting and sub-group meetings. First, 14-members were assigned to the following sub-groups: 1) Definition & Terminology; 2) Initial Diagnostic Evaluation; 3) Reflux Monitoring; 4) Therapeutic Trial; 5) Behavioral Factors
