HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lps, reflux, manuscript, author, author manuscript, symptoms, monitoring, esophageal, lprd, manuscript author, patients, therapy, laryngeal, diagnostic, gerd


independent voting and sub-group meetings. First, 14-members were assigned to the following sub-groups: 1) Definition & Terminology; 2) Initial Diagnostic Evaluation; 3) Reflux Monitoring; 4) Therapeutic Trial; 5) Behavioral Factors & Therapy; 6) Risk Stratification. Each sub-group was led by two inter-disciplinary co-chairs tasked with performing a literature review, developing statements, and presenting evidence at working group meetings. Fourteen additional members were nominated and recruited for the voting panel. The RAND Appropriateness Method (RAM), a formally validated methodology for determining the appropriateness of statements, was utilized. This method included independent electronic voting to determine the appropriateness of each statement per RAM using the University of California San Diego Research Electronic Database Capture (REDCap). Statements ranked as appropriate with ≥80% agreement are included as final recommendations14, 15. (Tables 1 & 2; Figure 1). Statements not meeting criteria as appropriate are including in Supplemental Tables 2 and 3. DEFINITION & TERMINOLOGY Key points: • Laryngopharyngeal symptoms (LPS) refer to chronic and frequent throat and upper airway symptoms that have potential to be induced by retrograde flow of gastric content to the upper esophagus, pharynx and larynx. • Laryngopharyngeal symptoms include cough, voice hoarseness/change, throat clearing, excess phlegm in the throat, throat pain/sore throat. • Multiple mechanisms can lead to laryngopharyngeal symptoms, and the term LPS does not implicate reflux as the etiology of symptoms. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 April 08. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript • A diagnosis of laryngopharyngeal reflux disease (LPRD) requires chronic troublesome LPS AND objective evidence supporting the relationship between symptoms and gastro-esophageal reflux. • The presence of LPS does not equate to LPRD. Characterization and definition of “LPR” have proven challenging over the past several decades, primarily because the term equates the presenting symptoms with a reflux-based etiology when, in fact, objective GERD is infrequently demonstrated. The panel sought to differentiate and define presenting symptoms with suspicion of reflux as LPS, from the diagnosis of the disease resulting from objective reflux, termed laryngopharyngeal reflux disease (LPRD). Laryngopharyngeal Symptoms (LPS): To qualify as LPS, the panel agreed that symptoms must be frequent, occurring at least twice weekly, and present for more than 8 weeks16–18. The group agreed that commonly cited “LPR” symptoms meeting criteria for LPS include (with the level of agreement in parentheses): cough (89%), regurgitation (89%), throat pain/sore throat (89%), throat clearing (86%), excess phlegm (82%), and hoarseness/
