HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lps, reflux, manuscript, author, author manuscript, symptoms, monitoring, esophageal, lprd, manuscript author, patients, therapy, laryngeal, diagnostic, gerd


“LPR” symptoms meeting criteria for LPS include (with the level of agreement in parentheses): cough (89%), regurgitation (89%), throat pain/sore throat (89%), throat clearing (86%), excess phlegm (82%), and hoarseness/ voice change (80%)16–18. Although globus approached but did not reach agreement for inclusion as an LPS, the panel felt that globus is an important symptom warranting further evaluation and is often a negative predictor of reflux physiology19–21. Several other symptoms that did not reach agreement to be considered LPS included tongue burning, nasal burning, post-nasal drip, halitosis, belching and dysphagia (Supplemental Table 2). Importantly, all aforementioned symptoms are poorly specific for true LPRD. In other words, the presence of LPS does not equate to LPRD22. Additionally, LPS can occur with esophageal reflux-like symptoms such as heartburn, regurgitation, or chest pain, or can occur independent of esophageal symptoms23. Hence, early in the evaluation of LPS, the presence of esophageal symptoms should be assessed as the diagnostic and management algorithms differ for isolated LPS and LPS with concurrent esophageal reflux symptoms. Laryngopharyngeal Reflux Disease (LPRD): While the prevalence of LPS is high, the proportion of individuals found to have objective LPRD on diagnostic evaluation is low, approximately 35%24. Thus, while many individuals experience LPS, true LPRD is much less common. Therefore, both LPS and objective evidence of gastro-esophageal reflux are needed for a diagnosis of LPRD. Such evidence could include reflux metrics on esophageal testing or, in the setting of concurrent esophageal reflux symptoms, a positive response to a pharmacologic trial. Irrespective of symptom presentation, there was strong agreement that diagnostic evidence supporting the relationship between LPS and gastroesophageal reflux is required for all patients prior to invasive anti-reflux management. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 April 08. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript DIAGNOSTIC EVALUATION OF LPS Role of Laryngoscopy Key point • Laryngoscopy is a necessary part of evaluation of LPS to assess for other non- reflux related otolaryngologic processes including malignancy; however, LPRD cannot be diagnosed based on laryngoscopy findings alone. Laryngoscopy was agreed by the expert panel to be a necessary step in evaluating LPS, primarily to rule out alternate laryngeal pathologies including neoplasia. However, findings on laryngoscopy alone cannot diagnose LPRD22, 25. Laryngoscopic findings on white light examination such as infraglottic edema, interarytenoid mucosal hypertrophy, erythematous changes and post-cricoid mucosal edema are non-specific for LPRD and may result from other causes of
