HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lps, reflux, manuscript, author, author manuscript, symptoms, monitoring, esophageal, lprd, manuscript author, patients, therapy, laryngeal, diagnostic, gerd


Laryngoscopic findings on white light examination such as infraglottic edema, interarytenoid mucosal hypertrophy, erythematous changes and post-cricoid mucosal edema are non-specific for LPRD and may result from other causes of laryngeal inflammation or be found in healthy, asymptomatic individuals25. LPRD is often erroneously assumed to cause LPS despite changes in other vibratory parameters such as symmetry, amplitude, mucosal wave, and glottic closure, visualized by stroboscopy. In addition, benign vocal fold lesions are common, as are lesions of epithelial origin, such as keratotic, pre-malignant dysplastic and malignant lesions26. All of these can present with dysphonia, chronic throat clearing, globus sensation and other irritative complaints often ascribed to LPRD27. When LPS includes hoarseness that is not explained by white light flexible laryngoscopy, videostroboscopic examination should be performed to evaluate for other etiologies. Additionally, the panel suggested that laryngoscopic finding instruments such as the Reflux Finding Score (RFS) and the Reflux Sign Assessment (RSA) should not be used to diagnose LPRD, given their suboptimal specificity28–30. Symptom Characterization & Role of Medical Trials Key points • The presence of concurrent esophageal reflux symptoms versus absence, referred to as isolated LPS, should be determined. • In patients with LPS & esophageal reflux symptoms, a trial of medical anti- reflux management, along with dietary and lifestyle modification, is appropriate. • In patients with isolated LPS, esophageal evaluation is recommended instead of empiric medical trials. • Medical anti-reflux trial includes twice daily PPI for 3 months with or without alginate therapy. The diagnostic and management algorithms differ for concurrent esophageal symptoms with LPS versus isolated LPS. When gastroesophageal reflux is implicated as the etiology of LPS, either based on typical esophageal reflux symptoms or positive diagnostic testing, initial therapeutic trials can include anti-secretory therapy, as well as barrier alginate therapy and lifestyle optimization. The latter are low-risk strategies that may complement and enhance the effectiveness of anti-secretory therapy in patients with LPRD31–33. A 3-month trial of standard-dose potent acid suppression such as PPI (e.g. omeprazole 20 mg) taken twice a day is considered adequate for the assessment of LPS symptom response. LPS Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 April 08. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript have been shown to decrease with alginate therapy taken four times daily (after meals and before bedtime) compared to vocal hygiene and lifestyle management34, and can augment acid suppression35, 36. In patients with isolated LPS, acid-reducing
