HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lps, reflux, manuscript, author, author manuscript, symptoms, monitoring, esophageal, lprd, manuscript author, patients, therapy, laryngeal, diagnostic, gerd


alginate therapy taken four times daily (after meals and before bedtime) compared to vocal hygiene and lifestyle management34, and can augment acid suppression35, 36. In patients with isolated LPS, acid-reducing medications are not recommended as first-line therapy without demonstration of diagnostic evidence of reflux37, 38. Esophageal Evaluation Esophageal evaluation, including upper GI endoscopy and/or ambulatory reflux monitoring, is the next step in the investigation of LPS with typical esophageal symptoms when unresponsive to empiric treatment trials, and in isolated LPS. Upper GI Endoscopy Key Points: • Conclusive evidence of GERD on upper GI endoscopy includes Los Angeles grades B, C, D esophagitis and/or biopsy proven Barrett’s esophagus. Using Lyon Consensus paradigms, upper GI endoscopy off acid suppressive therapy can establish GERD presence if Los Angeles grades B, C, D esophagitis and/or biopsy proven Barrett’s esophagus are encountered39, and can raise suspicion that reflux may be contributing when found in patients with LPS. The presence of disrupted esophagogastric junction on endoscopy, such as hiatal hernia, may serve as adjunctive evidence for LPRD. The potential value of upper endoscopy was demonstrated in a recent multicenter study of patients presenting with LPS, where up to 47% of patients demonstrated erosive findings and/or hiatal hernia40. Notably, these findings may be present both in patients with esophageal symptoms and those with isolated LPS. The expert panel, therefore, agreed that upper GI endoscopic evaluation for signs of esophageal mucosal injury may be of value in patients with LPS. Office-based transnasal esophagoscopy (TNE) has been shown to be similarly diagnostic for Barrett’s esophagus and certain other esophageal pathologies compared to standard upper endoscopy41–43. While TNE may provide a convenient, point- of-care screening tool for esophageal signs of reflux or other pathologies, it should be performed by providers with specialized training in esophageal endoscopy to ensure proper identification of relevant findings. A cervical inlet patch is an area of heterotopic gastric mucosa in the proximal esophagus found on upper endoscopy that may secrete acid, mucus, or pepsin. Inlet patches can be associated with LPS and globus44, and ablation of inlet patch has been shown to reduce LPS in small case series45. Despite these observations, the panel could not reach agreement on the value of identifying and treating inlet patch to reduce LPS, as current evidence remains limited. Further research, including controlled studies of the impact of ablation, is needed to more clearly establish the importance of identifying this
