HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lps, reflux, manuscript, author, author manuscript, symptoms, monitoring, esophageal, lprd, manuscript author, patients, therapy, laryngeal, diagnostic, gerd


patch to reduce LPS, as current evidence remains limited. Further research, including controlled studies of the impact of ablation, is needed to more clearly establish the importance of identifying this endoscopic finding in patients with LPS. Ambulatory Reflux Monitoring for Evaluation of LPS Key Points: • Ambulatory reflux monitoring is the reference standard for diagnosing LPRD. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 April 08. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript • LPRD diagnosis is required prior to invasive anti-reflux management. • In patients with isolated LPS, reflux testing can personalize management better than empiric treatment trials. • Diagnostic evaluation for LPRD should be considered if long-term medical anti- reflux management is recommended. The diagnostic evaluation of whether LPS are potentially related to reflux first requires determining whether pathologic gastro-esophageal reflux is present. Although objective evidence of GERD on reflux testing in patients with LPS does not necessarily implicate reflux as causative of a patient’s LPS, the absence of GERD makes it unlikely that GERD is the mechanism underlying LPS or that anti-reflux therapies will improve LPS.16 Thus, ambulatory reflux monitoring has a role in multiple LPS settings to distinguish the presence of pathologic GERD, and determine the value of anti-reflux therapies. Evidence of abnormal reflux burden is essential prior to endoscopic or surgical anti-reflux interventions as these are invasive, irreversible, and expensive. Since patients with isolated LPS have a lower pre-test likelihood of GERD, early ambulatory reflux monitoring can help to confirm or exclude GERD and thereby personalize management39, 46, 47. In the absence of endoscopic evidence of GERD, ambulatory reflux monitoring is the reference standard for diagnosing LPRD. Ambulatory reflux monitoring is the next step in evaluating patients with LPS and concurrent esophageal symptoms who do not respond to empiric trials of anti-secretory and/or alginate therapy, in the absence of endoscopic evidence of GERD. Further, ambulatory reflux monitoring should be considered in patients requiring long-term medical anti-reflux management, primarily to confirm pathologic reflux burden prior to long term acid suppressive therapy, similar to recommendations in esophageal reflux symptoms48. Modality & Interpretation of Ambulatory Reflux Monitoring Key Points: • Ambulatory reflux monitoring for evaluation of LPRD in patients with unproven GERD should be performed off acid suppression therapy. • pH-impedance and wireless pH monitoring measure different properties of LPRD and are not mutually exclusive. • pH-impedance monitoring is a diagnostic option for LPRD, particularly in
