HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lps, reflux, manuscript, author, author manuscript, symptoms, monitoring, esophageal, lprd, manuscript author, patients, therapy, laryngeal, diagnostic, gerd


acid suppression therapy. • pH-impedance and wireless pH monitoring measure different properties of LPRD and are not mutually exclusive. • pH-impedance monitoring is a diagnostic option for LPRD, particularly in patients with isolated laryngopharyngeal symptoms. • Prolonged wireless pH testing is a diagnostic option for LPRD, particularly in patients with concomitant esophageal reflux symptoms and prior to escalation of reflux management. • Distal esophageal acid exposure time (AET) greater than 6.0% on ambulatory reflux monitoring meets criteria for proven GERD. • AET less than 4.0% on all four days of 96-hour wireless pH monitoring predicts low likelihood of symptom response with anti-secretory therapy. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 April 08. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript • Oropharyngeal pH monitoring alone has poor specificity for LPRD in patients with laryngopharyngeal symptoms. The two primary modalities of reflux monitoring utilized to diagnose LPRD are 24-hour multichannel intraluminal impedance-pH monitoring and prolonged wireless pH monitoring, both performed off antisecretory therapy in unproven GERD24 (Table 3). Each of these two modalities provides differing capabilities and value in the evaluation of LPS, and thus are not mutually exclusive. Both provide measurement of distal esophageal acid exposure time (AET). pH-impedance offers the added ability to detect proximal reflux events with greater detail depending on probe placement and catheter configuration, especially since hypopharyngeal events may be more likely to contribute to LPS. For both modalities, prospective and blinded trial data suggest a distal esophageal AET >6.0% is definitively abnormal and consistent with pathologic acid exposure, meeting criteria for proven GERD whereas distal esophageal AET <4.0% is considered physiologic, especially if present on all 4 days of a 96-hour prolonged wireless study49, 50 39. Early studies demonstrated that pH-impedance monitoring is superior to traditional esophageal pH monitoring in detecting proximal esophageal reflux events51. Hypopharyngeal reflux events were demonstrated using dual channel or hypopharyngeal- esophageal multichannel intraluminal impedance with dual pH (HEMII-pH) catheters, often occurring as weakly-acidic or non-acidic reflux episodes that have potential to predict treatment outcomes51–54. These catheter configurations were able to identify pharyngeal reflux events in 81% of 42 patients with suspected reflux-mediated pathology in LPS, including 72% who tested negative for esophageal-only criteria, highlighting the diagnostic gap addressed by standard dual-channel pH-impedance monitoring. Identifying clinically relevant reflux episode thresholds requires further research, and the expert panel could not reach agreement for thresholds of >80 esophageal reflux events and
