HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lps, reflux, manuscript, author, author manuscript, symptoms, monitoring, esophageal, lprd, manuscript author, patients, therapy, laryngeal, diagnostic, gerd


by standard dual-channel pH-impedance monitoring. Identifying clinically relevant reflux episode thresholds requires further research, and the expert panel could not reach agreement for thresholds of >80 esophageal reflux events and >10 hypopharyngeal events to be considered abnormal. Wireless pH monitoring utilizes a single pH sensor positioned in the distal esophagus during sedated endoscopy that wirelessly transmits data to a recorder for up to 96-hours55, 56. Given significant day-to-day variability in esophageal acid exposure, a major advantage of wireless pH testing is the capacity to monitor for prolonged periods and capture variability rather than relying solely on a 24-hour snapshot57. When the goal is to achieve the highest diagnostic accuracy in demonstrating pathologic GERD, 96-hour prolonged wireless pH monitoring outperforms 24- or 48-hour studies in predicting need for acid suppressive and anti-reflux therapies, primarily because day-to-day variation in acid burden can confound shorter studies48, 58–60. In a double-blind, multi-center trial of 100 patients with troublesome esophageal reflux symptoms and inadequate PPI response, participants with 0 days of an elevated AET had 10 times increased odds of stopping PPI when compared to those with 4 days of an elevated AET. When AET was elevated on two or more days, the odds ratio for predicting need to continue PPI treatment was 5.3 (95% CI 2.19–13.44)50. Given these findings, recent guidance positions 96-hour wireless pH testing off anti-secretory therapy as the preferred test for unproven GERD61. Prolonged pH monitoring also provides a higher diagnostic yield of pathologic GERD in patients with LPS. In a recent multicenter international study of 813 patients, the diagnostic yield of GERD in patients referred for Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 April 08. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript LPS was 50% on prolonged monitoring versus 27% on 24-h pH impedance monitoring, including HEMII-pH24, 62. Oropharyngeal pH testing (Restech Dx-pH probe, Respiratory Technology Corp, San Diego, CA) was introduced as a minimally invasive pharyngeal pH probe to detect pharyngeal acid, including aerosolized acid63. However, this technique is not specific, cannot detect weakly-acidic or non-acidic reflux, has poor concordance with traditional pH-impedance The expert panel agreed that both pH-impedance monitoring and wireless pH monitoring are diagnostic options for assessing LPS. pH-impedance monitoring provides information on mechanisms of LPS, especially isolated LPS, while prolonged wireless pH monitoring provides direction on the role of anti-reflux therapy in LPS. The panel reached near agreement in the value of
