HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lps, reflux, manuscript, author, author manuscript, symptoms, monitoring, esophageal, lprd, manuscript author, patients, therapy, laryngeal, diagnostic, gerd


mechanisms of LPS, especially isolated LPS, while prolonged wireless pH monitoring provides direction on the role of anti-reflux therapy in LPS. The panel reached near agreement in the value of HEMII-pH providing useful information when traditional esophageal reflux monitoring is inconclusive, and suspicion of a reflux-mediated mechanism remains high. The panel did not support oropharyngeal pH monitoring as a stand-alone tool in LPS evaluation. LARYNGEAL HYPERRESPONSE AND HYPERVIGILANCE Laryngeal Behavioral Factors Key Points: • Hyperresponsive laryngeal behaviors, with or without true LPRD, may contribute to or be the primary etiology of LPS. • Laryngeal symptom-specific anxiety and hypervigilance may contribute to or be the primary etiology of LPS. • The Laryngeal Cognitive Affective Tool can help identify individuals with symptom-specific anxiety and hypervigilance. The larynx is a critical intersection of breathing, communication and swallowing. These processes can become measurably disrupted68 with pathologic reflux, stress, vagal sensitivity and sequelae from medical comorbidities69–72. The term “laryngoresponders” was first coined by Aronson in 1990 to describe a predisposition, by physical makeup or personality, to manifest emotional distress through sensory changes in the larynx or voice. In recent years, various studies have shown the relationship between emotion and the larynx73–76. A survey investigation of 1,217 adults found that 16% to 46% of the general population self-identified as laryngoresponsive77. Laryngeal hyperresponse can manifest as repetitive laryngeal behaviors such as throat clearing or coughing, breath-holding, or as biomechanical strain at the vocal folds altering one’s voice quality or causing globus sensation. Laryngeal hypervigilance, defined as increased threat-induced attention to the larynx, and symptom-specific anxiety, defined as fear/worry about LPS and perceived consequences, are psychological processes that can influence LPS. The Laryngeal Cognitive Affective Tool (LCAT) is a validated patient reported outcome (PRO) instrument to distinguish candidates with elevated levels of hypervigilance and anxiety related to their LPS, and who may improve with behavioral intervention78, 79. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 April 08. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Laryngeal Behavioral Therapy Key Points: • Individuals with LPS can undergo initial laryngeal recalibration therapy (LRT) provided by a voice-specialized speech-language pathologist. • LRT involves combined voice therapy techniques, autonomic regulation and cognitive reframing to address perceived and confirmed irritation manifesting as cough, throat-clearing, dyspnea and voice change. • Behavioral therapies used to address psychological targets, such as cognitive behavioral therapy, can be used alone or in combination with other modalities (e.g.
