HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lps, reflux, manuscript, author, author manuscript, symptoms, monitoring, esophageal, lprd, manuscript author, patients, therapy, laryngeal, diagnostic, gerd


cough, throat-clearing, dyspnea and voice change. • Behavioral therapies used to address psychological targets, such as cognitive behavioral therapy, can be used alone or in combination with other modalities (e.g. LRT, neuromodulators) in patients with LPS. Behavioral therapy can effectively address hyperresponsive laryngeal behaviors and laryngeal hypervigilance. SLPs specializing in voice and upper airway disorders offer interventions aimed at modifying dysregulated patterns using mechanical reorganization and healthful cognitive perspectives associated with LPS. There is precedent for these interventions working in individuals with confirmed reflux80, isolated cough81, inducible laryngeal obstruction/paradoxical vocal fold movement82, 83 and muscle tension dysphonia84. Laryngeal Recalibration Therapy (LRT)85 is a novel structured approach that infuses traditional SLP techniques with heart rate variability biofeedback as well as acceptance and commitment therapy86. If psychological processes continue to impact LPS and/or patients experience incomplete relief after LRT or pharmacologic neuromodulation, cognitive behavioral therapy can be used to target and modify the specific cognitive (e.g., my symptoms will never get better), emotional (e.g. fear, worry), physiological (increased autonomic arousal), and behavioral (e.g., avoidance of foods, laryngeal hypervigilance) processes exacerbating symptoms and interfering with quality of life. Psychological interventions in this context are not designed psychological processes specifically impacting LPS and are delivered by a mental health professional with specialized health psychology training. Neuromodulation Key Points: • Neuromodulators may improve laryngeal hypersensitivity. These include tricyclic antidepressants, as well as gabapentin and pregabalin (particularly studied in cough). Pharmacologic neuromodulation may attenuate laryngeal hypersensitivity and may be considered in LPRD patients with suboptimal response to anti-secretory therapy or SLP intervention and in isolated LPS with negative esophageal testing. Current clinical evidence for neuromodulators, notably gabapentin and pregabalin, focus primarily on the treatment of chronic cough through mediation of vagal hypersensitivity87. Tricyclic antidepressants, commonly prescribed for the treatment of functional GI disorders, should be used with caution because of anticholinergic effects which may cause dry mouth and aggravate LPS88. While there is a paucity of data for selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 April 08. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, they can be considered in individuals who have concomitant anxiety and depression. PRO INSTRUMENTS & RISK STRATIFICATION TOOLS Common PRO instruments for GERD (GERDQ, GERD-HRQL) are valuable in assessing the severity and treatment response of esophageal symptoms, but have suboptimal diagnostic yield for LPS and LPRD89. The expert panel agreed
