HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lps, reflux, manuscript, author, author manuscript, symptoms, monitoring, esophageal, lprd, manuscript author, patients, therapy, laryngeal, diagnostic, gerd


instruments for GERD (GERDQ, GERD-HRQL) are valuable in assessing the severity and treatment response of esophageal symptoms, but have suboptimal diagnostic yield for LPS and LPRD89. The expert panel agreed that currently available LPRD-specific PRO instruments should not be used to diagnose LPRD due to insufficient specificity. In particular, the symptoms assessed by reflux symptom index (RSI) are non-specific for LPRD but can be used to follow many laryngological complaints over time90. An RSI cutoff previously considered clinically significant (≥13) also could not distinguish patients with increased proximal/pharyngeal reflux or significant symptom correlation on HEMII-pH testing91, 92. The more recent Reflux Symptom Score (RSS), developed in conjunction with HEMII-pH testing, demonstrates a higher specificity and sensitivity in predicting increased proximal reflux burden and treatment outcome93, 94, but was not considered by the panel to be definitively diagnostic of LPRD based on current evidence. The value of other general voice and cough instruments, such as the Voice Handicap Index-10 (VHI)95, Leicester Cough Questionnaire (LCQ)96, and the Cough Severity Index (CSI)97, should be only be used as prescribed – as PROs and not diagnostic instruments. in recent years to help direct initial diagnostic and management strategies in patients with LPS. While they hold promise in aiding clinicians by classifying patients into risk categories needed before they can be fully adopted in the consensus algorithm for LPS/LPRD. Further validation of these scores for treatment outcomes and in diverse populations represent important areas of future research. DISCUSSION The San Diego Consensus for LPS & LPRD (SD-LPRD) is a modern-day evidence- based paradigm for evaluation and management of LPS developed utilizing formal methodology amongst an international expert inter-disciplinary group of ENTs, GIs, SLPs, and psychologist. The physiological mechanisms underlying “LPR” are often unclear. Simplistically, reflux of gastric contents to the upper aerodigestive tract implies incompetence of both the lower and upper esophageal sphincters. However, there are several potential mechanisms for LPR giving rise to symptoms, namely: neurogenic, inflammatory, behavioral or motility related. For example, it is hypothesized that injury to the larynx and pharynx occurs directly (via exposure to gastric acid, pepsin and bile salts) or indirectly (via repetitive mucosal trauma from vagally mediated or reactive cough and throat clearing)99. Further, esophageal dysfunction may impact the tracheobronchial airway by a reflux pathway (micro-aspiration) or reflex pathway (vagally mediated airway stimulation). Additionally, heightened cognitive- behavioral responses may perpetuate laryngeal behaviors (Figure 2). Traditional anti-reflux Am J
