HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lps, reflux, manuscript, author, author manuscript, symptoms, monitoring, esophageal, lprd, manuscript author, patients, therapy, laryngeal, diagnostic, gerd


the tracheobronchial airway by a reflux pathway (micro-aspiration) or reflex pathway (vagally mediated airway stimulation). Additionally, heightened cognitive- behavioral responses may perpetuate laryngeal behaviors (Figure 2). Traditional anti-reflux Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 April 08. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript of LPS patients respond to anti-secretory therapy and why anti-reflux surgery frequently yields suboptimal outcomes. Therefore, a critical aim of SD-LPRD was to develop a clinically practical paradigm to guide the use of anti-reflux strategies and objective testing, while highlighting the critical roles of laryngeal hyperresponsiveness and hypervigilance in symptom persistence. A major distinction made by the expert panel is between presenting symptoms pertaining to the upper aerodigestive tract, termed LPS, from confirmed reflux-mediated pathophysiology based on objective findings, termed LPRD. Although both LPS and LPRD contribute to reflux. Hence identification of LPRD is a key step in the diagnostic evaluation of LPS. Standardized definition for LPS versus LPRD is also critical for future research efforts in the field, as the prior ambiguity of the term “LPR” limited generalizability of prior literature. An expert evaluation of the larynx using laryngoscopy ± stroboscopy is an important step in evaluating any patient with LPS, not only to document findings, but also to rule out non-reflux etiologies for LPS. However, laryngoscopic findings are poorly specific for LPRD and may result from other causes of laryngeal inflammation or be found in healthy, asymptomatic individuals25. Although spontaneously forming vocal process granulomas (i.e. not from intubation trauma) have historically been considered pathognomonic for LPRD17, there remains uncertainty in this relationship. A recent survey of academic laryngologists suggested the most likely etiology of vocal process granulomas was phonotrauma (88%), followed by reflux (67%) and glottic insufficiency (48%). Other common non-reflux etiologies of LPS include allergy and glottic pathology100, 101, and rarely neoplasia, all of which could be recognized on careful laryngoscopic examination. The presence of typical esophageal symptoms should be assessed as evaluation and management algorithms differ for isolated LPS and concurrent LPS with esophageal reflux symptoms. Empiric acid suppressive therapy may be trialed when LPS coexists with esophageal symptoms of GERD. While the type, dose, frequency and duration of acid-reducing therapies vary widely in the literature, unit dose PPI (e.g. omeprazole 20 mg) up to twice daily for 3 months is recommended for LPS response46, 47, 102–108. A novel class of potent acid suppression, potassium competitive acid blockers (PCABs),
