HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lps, reflux, manuscript, author, author manuscript, symptoms, monitoring, esophageal, lprd, manuscript author, patients, therapy, laryngeal, diagnostic, gerd


(e.g. omeprazole 20 mg) up to twice daily for 3 months is recommended for LPS response46, 47, 102–108. A novel class of potent acid suppression, potassium competitive acid blockers (PCABs), is approved for reflux driven conditions including non-erosive reflux disease and erosive esophagitis, and could be used in place of PPI therapy. Outcomes research focused on LPS will further clarify the role of PCABs. Further, alginate therapies are inexpensive, generally well-tolerated, may reduce patient perception of globus109, and may offer increased benefit compared to PPI monotherapy35, 36. Lifestyle modifications for managing GERD include reduction of intra-gastric pressure (e.g., weight loss/management and avoiding tight fitting clothing around the abdomen), minimizing post-prandial reflux (e.g., maintaining upright posture/avoiding recumbency 2–3 hours following meals, practicing diaphragmatic breathing), modifying sleeping position in cases of nocturnal reflux (e.g, head of bed elevation, sleeping in the left lateral position), and avoiding foods that trigger symptoms31–33. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 April 08. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Prior to initiating anti-reflux therapy in isolated LPS, or when empiric treatment trials fail in LPS associated with esophageal symptoms, further esophageal evaluation includes upper GI endoscopy and ambulatory reflux monitoring, to determine the presence or consequences of abnormal levels of gastroesophageal reflux. Although objective evidence of GERD (AET>6.0%) in patients with LPS does not necessarily implicate reflux as causative of LPS, the absence of objective GERD (AET<4.0%) makes it unlikely that GERD is the mechanism, or that anti-reflux therapies will improve LPS.16 In patients without previously proven GERD, ambulatory reflux monitoring is performed off acid suppression in order to measure baseline levels of esophageal acid exposure and the nature of reflux episodes. In planning ambulatory reflux monitoring, the diagnostic evaluation of LPS potentially related to reflux may require the determination of whether symptoms arise from a reflux mediated mechanism (where acid or non-acid reflux events cause direct tissue irritation), or a reflex mechanism (where reflux triggers a vagally mediated response without direct tissue contact)99. Demonstration of a reflux-mediated mechanism requires evaluation of both the proximal extent of reflux events and non-acidic or weakly acidic episodes that may contribute to symptoms. pH-impedance monitoring, particularly using a HEMII-pH or dual pH impedance catheter, can distinguish between these mechanisms and provide definitive evidence of reflux events, their characteristics, and their temporal relationship to symptoms. pH-impedance monitoring also provides baseline impedance values, which can offer information
