HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lps, reflux, manuscript, author, author manuscript, symptoms, monitoring, esophageal, lprd, manuscript author, patients, therapy, laryngeal, diagnostic, gerd


distinguish between these mechanisms and provide definitive evidence of reflux events, their characteristics, and their temporal relationship to symptoms. pH-impedance monitoring also provides baseline impedance values, which can offer information regarding esophageal mucosal integrity, especially in the distal esophagus, although this has not been extensively studied in LPS. Important limitations include the lack of day-to-day variability information67, and suboptimal value in ruling out reflux disease65, 110. Thus, pH-impedance monitoring has the highest value in providing information about whether LPS is related to a reflux-related inflammatory mechanism, especially with isolated LPS, but may not provide the best guidance regarding the role of anti-reflux management. Since many patients with LPS require an upper GI endoscopy, ideally performed off antisecretory therapy in unproven GERD, the decision to place a wireless pH capsule can be made real-time during endoscopy if no evidence of reflux is observed endoscopically111. This is a cost-effective strategy and is particularly relevant since prolonged wireless pH- monitoring provides precise information regarding the presence or absence of pathologic acid burden, which is a primary determinant of the need for antisecretory therapy, and especially irreversible invasive anti-reflux therapies. Prolonged wireless reflux monitoring is better tolerated by patients when compared to catheter-based testing, with the main adverse effect being chest discomfort that rarely necessitates removal112, 113. Limitations of wireless pH-monitoring include absence of proximal esophageal and/or pharyngeal reflux monitoring, lack of baseline impedance, and inability to directly ascribe LPS to reflux. Recommendations regarding reflux management are beyond the scope of the current initiative. Personalizing management to the individual patient requires consideration of available expertise and response to prior treatment trials. In the case of isolated LPS or when LPS fail to respond to anti-reflux therapies even in confirmed LPRD, overlap with laryngeal hyperresponsiveness and hypervigilance should be considered, and behavioral therapy and/or neuromodulation recommended. Laryngeal involvement does not implicate a Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 April 08. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript laryngeal hyperresponsiveness independent of a diagnosed disorder of affect (Figure 3). A robust mechanistic comprehension of how “normal” stresses of daily life might manifest in the larynx will improve our understanding of symptom generation, and metrics to measure such triggers could clarify intervention paradigms. The LCAT holds potential to identify patients with LPS who could benefit from behavioral therapies and/or neuromodulation78. Laryngeal behavioral therapies offered through trained SLPs and other behavioral therapists can hold
