HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: lps, reflux, manuscript, author, author manuscript, symptoms, monitoring, esophageal, lprd, manuscript author, patients, therapy, laryngeal, diagnostic, gerd


The LCAT holds potential to identify patients with LPS who could benefit from behavioral therapies and/or neuromodulation78. Laryngeal behavioral therapies offered through trained SLPs and other behavioral therapists can hold value in disorders with laryngeal hyperresponsiveness and hypervigilance independent of the underlying mechanism. LRT utilizes a combination of traditional SLP techniques with vagal biofeedback and cognitive interventions85. Patients who experience incomplete relief after LRT may benefit from psychological interventions such as cognitive behavioral therapy, used alone or in combination with other treatments such as dietary adjustments and neuromodulation114. Although relatively new to LPS, the field of psychogastroenterology utilizes brain-gut behavioral therapies for a range of gastrointestinal disorders with LPS overlap including functional heartburn115 and globus sensation116. Disordered brain-larynx interaction may also improve with pharmacological neuromodulation, since laryngeal hypersensitivity is implicated as a major contributor to LPS117. Delta ligands such as gabapentin and pregabalin have demonstrated value in cough87. Other neuromodulator classes include tricyclic antidepressants, SSRIs and SNRIs, where anticipated benefits need to be balanced taking concomitant affective disorders and potential for anticholinergic side effects. The main limitations of this initiative are that the levels of agreement are based on existing literature, and may reflect the mostly observational evidence available, often with risk of indirectness when applied to the statement in question, and lack of outcomes data to confirm recommendations. The fact that we used a RAND methodology without GRADE methodology is also a reflection of the quality of available literature. The San Diego Consensus for LPS & LPRD represents an initial step towards better characterization of the clinical conundrum represented by the term “LPR”. Distinction of the symptomatic state (LPS) from objective reflux-related aerodigestive symptoms (LPRD) will allow categorization of patients who need escalation of reflux therapy from those who need symptomatic and behavioral interventions, with the recognition of the potential of overlap between true LPRD and laryngeal hyperresponsiveness and hypervigilance. Further collaborative research utilizing the introduced paradigms and standardized terminologies will help to delineate the mechanisms underlying LPS and develop targeted therapies. Supplementary Material Refer to Web version on PubMed Central for supplementary material. Research Funding Support: NIH K23 DK125266 (PI: Yadlapati), NIH R03 DK135513 (Yadlapati), NIH R01 DK139089 (Yadlapati), NIH K76 AG079040 (PI: Rameau), NIH OT2 OD032720 (PI: Rameau), NIH R34HL174877 (PI: Misono), NIH/NIDDK R01 DK092217 (PI: Pandolfino) Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 April 08. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Abbreviations:
