Outpatient Management of Diabetes Mellitus in Elderly Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, patients, pubmed, insulin, older, type, type diabetes, adults, hypoglycemia, older adults, elderly, cardiovascular, glucose, use


ABSTRACT The number of older adults with diabetes is increasing in the United States and worldwide due to increased lifespan and the increased prevalence of diabetes in the geriatric population. The global prevalence of diabetes in people aged 65 years and older is estimated to be 19.3% (135.6 million), and it is projected to reach 19.6% (276.2 million) by 2045 ( 1 ). One-third of the U.S, population over 65 has diabetes, and by 2050 the number of people living with diabetes is expected to more than double ( 2 ). Diabetes is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in this population, with the latter largely attributable to macrovascular complications. Older diabetics also carry a disproportionate burden of microvascular complications, presumably related to longer duration of diabetes. This chapter reviews goals of diabetes care and how to achieve these goals in the geriatric population. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . PREVALENCE The number of older adults with diabetes is increasing in the United States and worldwide due to increased lifespan and the increased prevalence of diabetes in the geriatric population. One third of the U.S. population over 65 years old has diabetes, and one half of older adults have prediabetes ( 3 ). Diabetes is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in this population, with the latter largely attributable to macrovascular complications. Older diabetics also carry a disproportionate burden of microvascular complications, presumably related to longer duration of diabetes ( 4 ). This chapter reviews the goals of diabetes care and how to achieve these goals in the geriatric population. Age and weight are both risk factors for the development of diabetes. It has been noted that in normal aging there is a 2 mg/dL/decade rise in fasting plasma glucose, placing elderly patients at increased risk for the development of diabetes. Weight gain and decreased muscle mass are often seen with increasing age, resulting in worsening insulin resistance at the level of muscle and fat. Hence, beta cell function is taxed not only by impaired function with age per se, but also through worsening insulin resistance. Additionally, in the elderly there are often concomitant diseases, decreased activity, and medications which can worsen insulin resistance. The commonly used drugs in elderly patients that are associated with an increased risk of diabetes include thiazide diuretics, beta-blockers ( 5 ),
