Outpatient Management of Diabetes Mellitus in Elderly Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, patients, pubmed, insulin, older, type, type diabetes, adults, hypoglycemia, older adults, elderly, cardiovascular, glucose, use


and medications which can worsen insulin resistance. The commonly used drugs in elderly patients that are associated with an increased risk of diabetes include thiazide diuretics, beta-blockers ( 5 ), statins ( 6 , 7 ), second-generation antipsychotic medications ( 7 ), androgen deprivation therapy, glucocorticoids ( 7 ), and certain HIV drugs (notably protease inhibitors and some nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors) ( 7 , 8 ). CLASSIFICATION OF DIABETES The types of diabetes in the elderly population span the spectrum, including Type 1, Type 2, latent autoimmune diabetes of adulthood, and other types. The last classification group includes diabetes due to underlying defined genetic syndromes, drugs, toxins, or endocrinopathy induced diabetes, and a variety of other relatively uncommon etiologies (see the American Diabetes Association (ADA) diabetes classification for further details) ( 9 ). Type 1 diabetes mellitus results from autoimmune destruction of the beta-cells of the pancreas, ultimately leading to insulin deficiency. It occurs in genetically susceptible people and is influenced by environmental factors and can present across the lifespan . Latent autoimmune diabetes of adulthood (LADA) is a subset of type 1 diabetes with onset in adulthood. These patients have a slower loss of beta cell function than traditional type 1 patients. Hence, they may initially be able to achieve glycemic control on oral agents for a period of time before needing to be transitioned to insulin. These patients are often thin and may lack a family history of diabetes. They should be closely monitored for beta cell failure with need for transition to insulin to prevent development of ketosis ( 9 ). When LADA is suspected, measurement of pancreatic autoantibodies, particularly glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) antibodies, is recommended to confirm the diagnosis. Type 2 diabetes mellitus results from increased insulin resistance which is superimposed on an inability of the pancreas to keep up with the insulin needs of the person ( 9 ). The underlying insulin resistance seen in T2DM is thought to be because of genetic factors and obesity, especially increased visceral adiposity, frequently accompanied by ectopic fat accumulation within organs such as the liver, pancreas, and skeletal muscle ( 10 ). Type 2 diabetes can generally be treated with lifestyle changes and oral agents early in its course. However, beta cell function progressively declines, often with ultimate beta cell failure, thereby requiring insulin treatment. Over 90% of people with diabetes have type 2 diabetes; they
