Outpatient Management of Diabetes Mellitus in Elderly Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, patients, pubmed, insulin, older, type, type diabetes, adults, hypoglycemia, older adults, elderly, cardiovascular, glucose, use


in its course. However, beta cell function progressively declines, often with ultimate beta cell failure, thereby requiring insulin treatment. Over 90% of people with diabetes have type 2 diabetes; they tend to be overweight or obese and have a strong family history of diabetes ( 11 ). DIAGNOSIS The diagnostic criteria for diabetes remain constant across all ages. Diabetes is diagnosed with fasting glucose greater than or equal to 126 mg/dl; symptoms of hyperglycemia and a random glucose equal to or greater than 200 mg/dl; a 75-gram oral glucose tolerance test with a two- hour value equal to or greater than 200 mg/dl; or A1C≥ 6.5%. For diagnosis of diabetes, two abnormal test results on the same test sample are needed, or confirmation of the abnormal test must be done on another day, unless unequivocal symptoms of hyperglycemia are present ( 5 ). In an elderly population, screening for diabetes should be considered in light of its increased prevalence. The ADA recommends that all adults over age 45 are screened for diabetes and prediabetes, and if the results are normal, it can be repeated in three years. If the patient is found to have prediabetes (impaired fasting glucose with FPG 100-125 mg/dl, impaired glucose tolerance with 2-hour glucose 140-199 mg/dl on 75-gram oral glucose tolerance test, or A1C 5.7-6.4%,), screening is recommended yearly ( 9 ). There is a distinction between diabetes diagnosed at an earlier age as opposed to diagnosis while elderly. Patients who have had diabetes for a longer period of time have an increased rate of microvascular complications compared with those with a diagnosis of diabetes at a later age. The incidence of macrovascular complications appears to be similar in older patients with diabetes regardless of duration of the disease ( 12 ). COMMON DIABETES MANAGEMENT ISSUES IN ELDERLY PATIENTS WITH TYPE 2 DIABETES This section outlines key challenges in managing type 2 diabetes in elderly populations, emphasizing syndromes and conditions identified by the American Geriatrics Society (AGS) and American Diabetes Association (ADA) ( 9 , 12 ) and other relevant clinical considerations. For a comprehensive review of treatment modalities, refer to the pertinent chapters in Endotext. It is important to assess medical, psychological and functional abilities and to screen for geriatric syndromes ( Table 1 ) ( 9 , 12 ) These include polypharmacy, depression, cognitive impairment, urinary incontinence, injurious falls, vision impairment, pain, and hypoglycemia.
