Outpatient Management of Diabetes Mellitus in Elderly Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, patients, pubmed, insulin, older, type, type diabetes, adults, hypoglycemia, older adults, elderly, cardiovascular, glucose, use


on insulin therapy ( 9 ). In selected older adults, especially those with preserved cognitive and functional capacity, automated insulin delivery systems may further reduce hypoglycemia risk and improve glucose stability. Fractures Fracture risk should be assessed in older adults with diabetes starting no later than the age of 65 ( 5 ), as it is clear that fracture risk is significantly increased in people with both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes ( 24 ) . Although bone density should be evaluated with DEXA, it appears that fracture risk is increased beyond that expected based upon bone mineral density alone, with higher risk seen with longer duration of disease (>26 years in patients with type 1 diabetes and >10 years in patients with Type 2 diabetes) ( 25 , 26 ), higher A1C, hypoglycemia, presence of neuropathy, or family history of fracture ( 25 , 27 ). All patients with diabetes should have adequate intake of calcium (1000-1200 mg/d) and vitamin D, supplied through diet and/or supplements, and should be encouraged to have regular physical activity in order to avoid sarcopenia and reduce fall risk. One should consider the impact of diabetes medications on bone health including possible increased fracture risk with pioglitazone use, and increased risk of falls and fracture with hypoglycemia due to use of insulin or sulfonylureas. Antiresorptive or osteoanabolic medications should be considered for people with diabetes who have low bone mineral density with a T-score of ≤-2.0, who have experienced a fragility fracture, or who have elevated fracture risk based on FRAX score ( 5 ). It is noted that one may consider FRAX calculation using an age 10 years older than the actual age, designating the patient as having rheumatoid arthritis as a proxy for presence of diabetes, or inputting a T-score that is 0.5 SD lower than the actual value to account for increased fracture risk seen in patients with diabetes. TYPE 2 DIABETES MANAGEMENT Treatment goals for older adults with diabetes must account for the diverse characteristics of this population, including variations in comorbidities, life expectancy, self-management abilities, psychological factors, and available social support. As a result, these goals should be tailored to align with individual circumstances, as well as the preferences and capacity of patients and their families to adhere to medication regimens and lifestyle changes ( 9 , 12 ). Diet and exercise, both aerobic and resistance training, remain
