Outpatient Management of Diabetes Mellitus in Elderly Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, patients, pubmed, insulin, older, type, type diabetes, adults, hypoglycemia, older adults, elderly, cardiovascular, glucose, use


therapy have revealed similar A1C efficacy with less hypoglycemia and weight gain ( 35 ). Up to 40% of patients have gastrointestinal side effects including nausea, vomiting, and abdominal discomfort. These tend to decrease over time, but sometimes require the drug to be stopped ( 36 ). The risk of cholelithiasis and acute cholecystitis increases slightly with dose and duration of treatment ( 37 ). The association between these agents and acute pancreatitis is controversial; a meta-analysis of four large cardiovascular outcome studies did not demonstrate an increased risk of pancreatitis or pancreatic cancer with GLP-1 receptor agonist treatment ( 38 ). They should also be avoided in most patients with gastroparesis, given the potential for symptom worsening. In addition, peri-procedural concerns have emerged regarding delayed gastric emptying and aspiration risk during anesthesia, and current guidelines recommend withholding GLP-1 receptor agonists prior to elective procedures when appropriate ( 39 ). Additionally, these agents have also been associated with an increased risk of thyroid C-cell tumors in rodents and should not be used in patients with a personal or family history of MEN-2 or medullary thyroid cancer. When combined with insulin or sulfonylureas, GLP-1 receptor agonists may increase the risk of hypoglycemia; dose reduction of the concomitant agent should be considered during initiation or titration. The cardiovascular outcome trials for liraglutide, semaglutide, and dulaglutide revealed a decreased risk in fatal and nonfatal myocardial infarction and stroke as well as death over a 2-5.4-year period ( 40 - 42 ). Additionally, semaglutide treatment has been associated with a reduction in decline of glomerular filtration rate (EGFR) or development of renal failure ( 43 ) as well as a reduction of heart failure symptoms in obese patients with heart failure (HF) and preserved ejection fraction (EF) ( 44 ). Both liraglutide and semaglutide have been shown to reduce metabolic-associated steatohepatitis ( 46 , 47 ). Weight loss with GLP-1 receptor agonists reflects reductions in both adipose and lean mass. In older adults, excessive lean mass loss may contribute to sarcopenia, frailty, and functional decline. Resistance or strength training should be encouraged to preserve muscle mass, and emerging combination therapies targeting the prevention of muscle loss during GLP-1 therapy are in development ( 45 ). A GLP-1 receptor agonist with proven benefit should be considered as first line therapy in patients with diabetes and known cardiovascular disease or high cardiovascular risk (age >55 with
