Outpatient Management of Diabetes Mellitus in Elderly Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, patients, pubmed, insulin, older, type, type diabetes, adults, hypoglycemia, older adults, elderly, cardiovascular, glucose, use


). A GLP-1 receptor agonist with proven benefit should be considered as first line therapy in patients with diabetes and known cardiovascular disease or high cardiovascular risk (age >55 with vascular stenosis, left ventricular hypertrophy, eGFR<60 ml/min, or albuminuria), as well as in those with chronic kidney disease (EGFR <60 ml/min and/or albuminuria), obesity and HF with preserved EF, or obesity and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD). It should also be strongly considered in those with diabetes and obesity, or who are unable to reach glycemic goals with use of other (non-injectable) therapies. Dual GIP/GLP-1 Receptor Agonist Tirzepatide (Mounjaro®) is the first dual incretin agonist on the market. Similar to GLP-1RA’s, it enhances insulin secretion in a glucose dependent manner, decreases glucagon secretion in a glucose dependent manner, and slows gastric emptying. In addition, it prevents apoptosis of beta cells and helps with lipid metabolism, thereby improving insulin sensitivity. Similar to the GLP-1RA’s, side effects include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and reduced appetite, and its use is contraindicated in patients with a history of pancreatitis, cholelithiasis, as well as a personal or family history of medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) or MEN 2 (includes MTC). It is most often used in obese patients with diabetes who seek weight loss and strong A1C reduction (2-2.5%) ( 48 ). Tirzepatide has been shown to improve metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) and liver fibrosis in a small study of obese patients with or without diabetes ( 49 ). The impact of tirzepatide on cardiovascular outcomes is under active investigation. Results from the SURPASS-CVOT trial have been announced and presented at the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) but are not yet published. Cardiovascular events were reduced to a similar degree with tirzepatide and dulaglutide. Moreover, tirzepatide has demonstrated benefit in patients with heart failure and preserved ejection fraction ( 50 ). Sodium-Glucose Cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) Inhibitors Canagliflozin (Invokana®), empagliflozin (Jardiance ®), ertugliflozin (Steglatro ®), bexagliflozin (Brenzavvy®) and dapagliflozin (Farxiga ®) are FDA approved drugs that inhibit renal absorption of glucose resulting in increased urinary glucose excretion. They reduce A1c by 0.37%-1.16%, have a low risk for hypoglycemia, and result in a modest decrease in blood pressure as well as weight loss. Large cardiovascular outcome trials demonstrated that empagliflozin and canagliflozin significantly reduced death from cardiovascular causes in patients with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular disease ( 51 , 52 ). However, these
