Outpatient Management of Diabetes Mellitus in Elderly Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, patients, pubmed, insulin, older, type, type diabetes, adults, hypoglycemia, older adults, elderly, cardiovascular, glucose, use


control without hypoglycemia risk. Dipeptidyl Peptidase IV Inhibitors (DPP4 Inhibitors) Sitagliptin (Januvia®), alogliptin (Nesina®), saxagliptin, and linagliptin (Tradjenta®) act to inhibit the breakdown of intrinsically made GLP-1 and GIP, thereby enhancing glucose stimulated insulin secretion and suppressing glucagon secretion in a glucose-dependent manner. They can be used as monotherapy or in combination with metformin or thiazolidinedione and insulin. They do not appear to cause hypoglycemia when used as monotherapy or in combination with metformin or thiazolidenediones. Treatment with DPP-4 inhibitors provides similar glycemic control as seen with sulfonylureas with less hypoglycemia and weight gain in elderly patients ( 66 ). It has been reported that these agents can cause severe joint pain, and this resolves with stopping the medication ( 67 ). There is a possible increased risk of pancreatitis and pre-cancerous changes of the pancreas ( 68 , 69 ). The cardiovascular outcome trial with saxagliptin ( 70 ) revealed a slightly increased risk of hospitalization for heart failure with its use. The name brand formulation was permanently discontinued in March 2023, but a generic formulation remains on the US market for considerably lower price. This was not seen in the cardiovascular outcome trial with alogliptin ( 71 ), but the FDA concluded that it “may increase the risk of heart failure” (04/05/2016 FDA Drug Safety Communication) and both drugs have warnings in their labelling. In contrast, there was no observed increased risk with sitagliptin or linagliptin ( 72 , 73 ). There is a slight increased risk of pancreatitis of ~1:1000 in large cardiovascular outcome trials with these agents ( 74 ). DPP4-inhibitors remain a valuable option for managing Type 2 diabetes in the elderly, offering effective glycemic control with a favorable safety profile. Insulin Exogenous insulin replaces or augments the total insulin present to achieve glycemic control. Insulin can be added to oral therapy in the elderly with diabetes as a basal injection of intermediate or long-acting insulin ( 75 ). However, if this does not achieve glycemic control, transition can be made to an insulin regimen with basal and prandial components; in this case, most oral diabetes medications can be discontinued, thus helping to eliminate polypharmacy. In elderly patients with a variable appetite, one can dose the prandial insulin post meal based upon grams of carbohydrate consumed to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia ( 76 , 77 ). Because of the high risk of hypoglycemia in
