Outpatient Management of Diabetes Mellitus in Elderly Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, patients, pubmed, insulin, older, type, type diabetes, adults, hypoglycemia, older adults, elderly, cardiovascular, glucose, use


the prandial insulin post meal based upon grams of carbohydrate consumed to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia ( 76 , 77 ). Because of the high risk of hypoglycemia in the elderly population, simplified regimens using morning long acting basal insulin may be preferred to prevent nocturnal hypoglycemia; further, there should be greater caution when titrating the insulin dose ( 77 ). Insulin therapy can be especially burdensome for an elderly patient because of the complexity of the treatment. Visual impairment can be addressed with the use of a pen device to dispense insulin or the attachment of a magnifying glass to the syringe. Because insulin is degraded by the kidneys, care must be taken to reduce the dose in the setting of renal impairment to avoid hypoglycemia. Elderly patients with diabetes who should be considered for insulin therapy at the onset include those with type 1 diabetes, diabetes secondary to pancreatic insufficiency, or those with a history of ketonuria, weight loss, or severe symptoms ( 78 ). It is notable that the American Diabetes Association has incorporated in their guidelines an algorithm published by Munshi and colleagues ( 79 ) which encourages simplification of regimens consisting of multiple daily injections of insulin for patients with type 2 diabetes and intact C-peptide. This algorithm encourages substitution of prandial insulin with oral therapy(ies) which do not cause hypoglycemia, and use of morning insulin glargine, a long-acting insulin analog, as a means of decreasing hypoglycemia overall. Recent studies ( 80 ) document that we have not significantly decreased use of insulin or decreased rates of hypoglycemia in our older patients, and it is key that we make this a focus of our care. In older adults with type 2 diabetes, the prevalence of “diabetes overtreatment,” defined according to glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) <7% with the use of insulin or sulfonylureas, ranges from 26% to 40% ( 13 ). Combinations of insulin-GLP-1 receptor agonist such as glargine insulin/lixisenatide (iGlarLixi) (Soliqua) and degludec insulin/liraglutide (iDegLira) (Xultophy) are available for use and they can simplify therapy for some. TYPE 1 DIABETES MANAGEMENT Patients with Type 1 diabetes are living longer due to improvements in care. Although the exact prevalence in older patients is not known, in individuals 60 years of age and older, Type 1 diabetes affects up to ~30 persons per 100,00 per year in the Unites States ( 81 ). Additionally, newer oncologic therapeutics
