Outpatient Management of Diabetes Mellitus in Elderly Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, patients, pubmed, insulin, older, type, type diabetes, adults, hypoglycemia, older adults, elderly, cardiovascular, glucose, use


individuals 60 years of age and older, Type 1 diabetes affects up to ~30 persons per 100,00 per year in the Unites States ( 81 ). Additionally, newer oncologic therapeutics targeting the immune system (check point inhibitors) contribute to new onset diabetes with insulin deficiency in an ever-enlarging group of patients. It is critical that insulin deficiency is identified in these patients to ensure that insulin therapy is never stopped as a means of “simplifying” their treatment; measurement of islet autoantibodies as well as C-peptide can help clarify the type of diabetes a patient has in order to guide therapy. Insulin can be delivered as multiple daily injections or via insulin pump. Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) is approved for use by Medicare for all patients on insulin therapy and can play a vital role in improving glycemic control based on A1C and glycemic variability, as well as decreasing the risk of hypoglycemia ( 82 ). A small study additionally revealed enhanced time-in-range and reduction in hypoglycemia with use of closed-loop pump therapy compared with sensor-augmented pump therapy ( 83 ), showing the former may be a good option in those older patients who are technologically savvy or have an available family member who can help them with such. As our patients with type 1 diabetes age, there are an increasing number of them who are frail and unable to be independent in their diabetes self-care, especially in the setting of insulin deficiency. Use of ultralong acting basal insulins, such as degludec, provide flexibility in the timing of the dose to be delivered by a caregiver ( 84 ). Further, use of CGM’s permit data to be transmitted remotely to providers who can help with insulin dosing adjustments and CGM data can be shared with a caregiver. Both use of analog insulins and CGM can help in avoidance of hospitalization as well as unrecognized or severe hypoglycemia ( 84 ). Simplification of a regimen may include moving the long acting insulin to the morning to help avoid nocturnal hypoglycemia, dosing mealtime insulin based on small, medium or large meals rather than carbohydrate counting, and use of a fixed gentle corrective scale ( 85 ). For patients who require placement in a long-term care facility, it is critical that the facility understands that the patient is insulin deficient and requires basal and supplemental insulin even when not eating; staff may additionally require
