Outpatient Management of Diabetes Mellitus in Elderly Patients
KEYWORDS: diabetes, risk, patients, pubmed, insulin, older, type, type diabetes, adults, hypoglycemia, older adults, elderly, cardiovascular, glucose, use


adjust statin therapy based on frailty and potential side effects. Antiplatelet Therapy Routine aspirin use is not recommended due to the risk of bleeding, unless there is a history of cardiovascular disease. Tobacco Cessation Physicians should provide counseling and pharmacologic interventions for smoking cessation. Metabolic-Dysfunction Associated Steatotic Liver Disease (MASLD) The American Diabetes Association now recommends that all patients with Type 2 diabetes be screened for their risk of developing cirrhosis due to MASLD using a Fib-4 calculation (mdcalc.com/calc/2200/fibrosis4-fib-4-index-liver-fibrosis) ( 9 ). Screening patients with Type 1 diabetes may be considered with additional risk factors including obesity, incidental hepatic steatosis on imaging, or elevated plasma aminotransferases. It is notable that age, transaminases and platelet count factor into this score, and hence patients older than 65 are more likely to have a falsely elevated value. If the Fib-4 score is ≥1.3, liver stiffness should be assessed to evaluate for significant fibrosis; this can be done with transient elastography (TE) or with the enhanced liver fibrosis (ELF) test if TE is unavailable. Patients with a markedly elevated Fib-4 score of ≥2.67 or evidence of significant fibrosis on TE or ELF should be referred to hepatology for further evaluation and treatment ( 9 ). Endocrine focused treatment includes diet and exercise aimed at weight loss, as well as treatment with medications that may be beneficial in patients with MASH including pioglitazone, tirzepatide or a GLP-1 RA. It should be noted that patients with Type 2 diabetes and MASLD are also at an increased risk of cardiovascular disease and should have aggressive assessment and management of cardiovascular risk factors. Screening and Prevention of Microvascular Complications Older adults with diabetes should undergo regular screening for microvascular complications, but testing frequency should be adjusted for those with limited life expectancy: RETINAL EXAMS Annually or more frequently if at high risk (e.g., retinopathy, symptomatic eye changes, glaucoma, cataracts, A1c >8%). FOOT EXAMINATIONS At least annually, with high-risk patients (neuropathy, previous ulcers) requiring more frequent evaluations. KIDNEY FUNCTION SCREENING Annual microalbuminuria and eGFR testing are recommended except for older adults with limited life expectancy, where its benefit is uncertain​. Diabetes Self-Management and Education Patient education plays a critical role in improving outcomes. Older adults and their caregivers should receive guidance on home blood glucose monitoring, recognizing and treating hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia, nutrition counseling and physical activity tailored to functional status, as well as foot care and self-examinations to
