Case report
KEYWORDS: syndrome, case, diabetes, reported, bmj, report, cases, patient, facial, ahmed, bmj case, type, normal, type diabetes, age


(0.5–4.2). Transabdom- characteristic facial gestalt, hypotonia, cardiac and inal and transvaginal ultrasound of the pelvis was skeletal abnormalities and hypothyroidism.1 The also normal. Wrist X-r ay at the age of 16 reported disease was initially described as an overgrowth normal bone age consistent with the chronological age of the patient. Echocardiogram was performed this association. To our knowledge, there have been for follow- up of a previously repaired patent ductus no previous cases in the literature reporting an arteriosus and this showed mild aortic regurgita- association with diabetes. We are writing this report tion. MRI scan of the brain was normal. to share our endocrinological experience in the management of HIST1H1E syndrome. DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS CASE PRESENTATION The phenotype and the presence of hypothyroidism, A 20-y ear-o ld Caucasian woman was referred to the diabetes, amenorrhoea and abnormal limb move- young adult diabetes clinic at our tertiary centre with ment raised the suspicion of Woodhouse- Sakati type 2 diabetes diagnosed 1 year previously at the syndrome, however, this was ruled out by genetic age of 19 years. At time of diagnosis, she was asymp- testing. Pallister- Killian syndrome is considered as tomatic except for fatigue. Her body mass index another differential as it manifests with ID, prom- (BMI) was 31.4 kg/m2. She had a characteristic facial inent forehead with sparse scalp hair anteriorly appearance with widespread eyes, posterior hairline and cardiac anomalies. However in Pallister- Killian suggesting a facial gestalt and abnormal dentition. syndrome karyotyping reveals a 47 chromosome She also had a background history of hypothy- pattern due to trisomy of chromosome 12p.6 roidism, mild ID, primary amenorrhoea, patent ductus arteriosus, Bell’s palsy, paroxysmal dyskin- TREATMENT AND OUTCOME © BMJ Publishing Group aesia and >100 skin naevi. There was no family The patient was treated initially with metformin Limited 2021. No commercial history of diabetes or other related disorders. On 500 mg two times per day, followed by gliclazide re- use. See rights and opment with small breasts, minimal axillary and flozin 10 mg once a day. She was intolerant of high To cite: Ahmed MSO, pubic hair and no clinical signs of insulin resistance. dose metformin due to gastrointestinal upset and Rafey M, McDonnell T, refused injectable therapies. As her compliance with et al. BMJ Case Rep 2021;14:e241907. INVESTIGATIONS her medications improved her HbA1c fell signifi- doi:- She had random plasma glucose of 11.1 mmol/L cantly. Gliclazide medication was
