Case report
KEYWORDS: syndrome, case, diabetes, reported, bmj, report, cases, patient, facial, ahmed, bmj case, type, normal, type diabetes, age


her compliance with et al. BMJ Case Rep 2021;14:e241907. INVESTIGATIONS her medications improved her HbA1c fell signifi- doi:- She had random plasma glucose of 11.1 mmol/L cantly. Gliclazide medication was stopped and 241907 and an abnormal oral glucose tolerance test with a her HbA1c remained stable at 44 mmol/mol while Ahmed MSO, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2021;14:e241907. doi: 1 Case report on metformin 500 mg two times per day, linagliptin 5 mg and adopted the standards of type 2 diabetes care. During the 11 centre for the last 10 years and is now 30 years old. To date, metformin, sulphonylurea, DPP-4 inhibitor and SGLT-2 inhib- no diabetes related complications have been detected. Hypothy- itor along with education and lifestyle modification advice and roidism was managed with levothyroxine 100 μg 5 days a week this has resulted in excellent glycaemic control with no observed and 50 μg on the other 2 days of the week. diabetes-r elated complications. Primary amenorrhoea is also considered as a new incidence in the syndrome. Further review and follow- up of the other prepubertal cases may clarify if there DISCUSSION is any correlation in the future. HIST1H1E syndrome also known as Rahman syndrome is a In conclusion, further studies are needed to clarify the asso- rare ID disorder caused by PTVs in the histone gene cluster 1, ciation of diabetes with HIST1H1E. In general, obesity which member E, HIST1H1E located in chromosome 6p22.2. The appears to be prominent in this disorder is a risk factor for variants result in an autosomal dominant disease yet the degree diabetes. It is, therefore, recommended to screen obese chil- of penetrance is yet to be identified.5 dren at the age of 10 for diabetes if they have two other risk It was first described by Tatton- Brown et al as an ID and over- factors including family history, high- risk ethnicity (Asian, black, growth syndrome. Takenouchi et al reported a case without over- Hispanic, Native American or Pacific Islander), maternal history growth. Burkardt et al reported a case series of 30 individuals of diabetes or gestational diabetes or clinical signs of insulin describing the phenotype of HIST1H1E syndrome. All of the resistance. individuals had ID with variable severity but mostly moderate ID. Flex et al reported that the aberrant function of this gene Patient’s perspective is associated with accelerated ageing.7 Facial gestalt which was also present in all cases
