Case report
KEYWORDS: syndrome, case, diabetes, reported, bmj, report, cases, patient, facial, ahmed, bmj case, type, normal, type diabetes, age


mostly moderate ID. Flex et al reported that the aberrant function of this gene Patient’s perspective is associated with accelerated ageing.7 Facial gestalt which was also present in all cases included a high hairline, full low cheeks, (Courtesy to the patient’s parents) bitemporal narrowing, frontal bossing and deep-s et eyes.1 Our daughter, who is now 30- year- old, was always much The other features of HIST1H1E syndrome include abnormal slower in reaching life progress/milestones compared to her brain MRI findings, cardiac anomalies, hypothyroidism, hypo- older brother. Despite her obvious learning difficulties, we made tonia, behavioural changes, abnormal dentition, skeletal abnor- sure she stayed in main stream school up to the age of 19. She malities and cryptorchidism in males. There have been two cases also attends 3rd level college of further education. Her reading of afebrile seizures.6 Ophthalmological abnormalities (such as ability is very good, however her ability to understand what she strabismus and astigmatism) and sensorineural hearing loss have reads is always a problem. Her memory for names, faces, music also been reported. groups and complicated computer passwords remains excellent. Woodhouse- Sakati syndrome shares some of the features such She can cycle, walk but not run as she is prone to falling. We are as ID, hypothyroidism, alopecia, sensorineural hearing loss and doing our best to keep her weight under control through diet and brain MRI abnormalities.8 Diabetes had been found in about exercise. She is very sociable and has a very friendly approach to 66% of cases of the syndrome and typically present in late child- everyone and for that reason she requires supervision to ensure hood to early adulthood age. that she is not abused or taken advantage of. The past 30 years In Pallister-K illian syndrome, there are again varying degrees has been a long and sometimes frustrating journey and there of ID and developmental delay as well as facial anomalies, remains several medical and learning issues which will continue congenital heart disease and seizures. However, the fronto- to dictate and influence her future. As it is most likely she will temporal balding is more prominent in childhood and improves outlive both her parents it is important that we ensure she with age. Karyotyping helps to differentiate between the two continues to live in a safe, caring environment. syndromes as the latter displays a 47 chromosome karyotype as a result of trisomy (or hexasomy in 9.1%)
