Case report
KEYWORDS: syndrome, case, diabetes, reported, bmj, report, cases, patient, facial, ahmed, bmj case, type, normal, type diabetes, age


differentiate between the two continues to live in a safe, caring environment. syndromes as the latter displays a 47 chromosome karyotype as a result of trisomy (or hexasomy in 9.1%) of chromosome 12p.9 To our knowledge, there have been no previous reports of Learning points diabetes with HIST1H1E syndrome and therefore our case is considered the first patient to develop diabetes with this ► HIST1H1E syndrome is a rare genetic disorder with varying degrees of intellectual disability and characteristic facial syndrome. In a case–control study, Tian et al reported an gestalt. increased risk of type 2 diabetes in patients with CDKAL1 gene polymorphism mapped to chromosome 6p22.3 as a result of loss ► It is also associated with cardiac, neurological, behavioural of insulin response to hyperglycaemia.10 Whether PTVs frame abnormalities and hypothyroidism. shift in chromosome 6p22.2 in HIST1H1E results in similar ► The association with diabetes as in this case remains unclear. pathogenesis remains unknown. The HIST1H1E syndrome was ► Screening for diabetes is recommended in obese children with two additional risk factors. initially described as an overgrowth syndrome and in fact most of the reported cases have a raised BMI which may increase ► Our case was well managed using standard care for type 2 diabetes through a multidisciplinary approach using lifestyle the risk of insulin resistance and diabetes. Additionally, while modifications and oral hypoglycaemic medications. HIST1H1E syndrome is an ID disorder and ID disorders may have an association with abnormal eating behaviours the latter was not reported in the other probands. When comparing this Twitter Mohammed S O Ahmed @DrMoSalahAhmed case to the previous cases reported, our patient is considered one of the oldest cases and it remains unclear whether diabetes is part of the syndrome as patients get older or not. In our patient, Zia- Ulhusnain, Dr Khalid Ahmed, Ms Siobhan McAteer, Ms Sonya Browne, Ms Niamh despite leading a healthy lifestyle (with the assistance of a senior dietician) following healthy eating habits and regular exercise Contributors MSOA reviewed the case, obtained consent, performed literature by swimming her diabetes has progressed requiring the addition review, wrote and submitted the report. MR performed literature review and of glucose-l owering medications over the years. Therefore, we wrote the initial case summery. TM reviewed the patient’s investigation, reviewed 2 Ahmed MSO, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2021;14:e241907. doi: Case report and commented and made additions to the report and provided
