e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: liver, ihcc, case, intrahepatic, disease, cholangiocarcinoma, cases, diagnosis, intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, resection, common, wilson, tumor, hepatic, treatment


e-ISSN 1941-5923 © Am J Case Rep, 2024; 25: e942372 DOI: Received: 2023.08.30 Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma in Wilson’s Accepted: 2023.12.06 Available online: 2023.12.20 Disease: A Case Report Published: 2024.01.27 Data Collection B ADEF Kwan Woo Kim Statistical Analysis C Data Interpretation D Manuscript Preparation E Literature Search F Funds Collection G Corresponding Author: Kwan Woo Kim, e-mail: Financial support: None declared Conflict of interest: None declared Patient: Female, 39-year-old Final Diagnosis: Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma Symptoms: Non Clinical Procedure: — Specialty: Oncology • Surgery Objective: Rare disease Background: Wilson’s disease is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by excessive accumulation of copper in the liver, brain, and kidneys. Although it affects only approximately 1 in 30 000 individuals, it leads to progres- sive liver damage and neurological issue. Wilson’s disease presents a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations related to hepatic disease, ranging from asymptomatic cases to acute liver failure. The occurrence of hepato- biliary malignancies, including intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, is relatively uncommon in Wilson’s disease, even among patients with cirrhosis. Only 14 cases have been published so far, including the present report, and its etiology remains unclear. Case Report: We report the successful treatment of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma in a 39-year-old woman with Wilson’s disease. Twenty-two years after being diagnosed with Wilson’s disease, intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma was diagnosed. She had an intrahepatic mass that was found to be a 4.3-cm ill-defined hypodense lesion in liver segment 3/4, with features suggesting infiltrative intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma rather than hepatocellular carcinoma. Laboratory results showed slightly elevated liver enzymes and tumor markers. There was no evi- dence of metastasis on chest computed tomography or positron emission tomography, and the tumor was re- sectable, so surgery was the first-choice treatment option. Left hepatectomy was performed successfully, and the final pathology confirmed adenocarcinoma with clear resection margins. The patient received adjuvant chemotherapy with capecitabine. To date, the patient has been doing well without evidence of recurrence or metastasis. Conclusions: Despite limited knowledge regarding hepatic malignancy in Wilson’s disease, it is crucial to prioritize careful monitoring and develop suitable treatment strategies upon diagnosis to achieve favorable outcomes, consid- ering the potential occurrence of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma in Wilson’s disease. Keywords: Cholangiocarcinoma • Hepatolenticular Degeneration • Case Reports Full-text PDF: 1172 1 4 19 Publisher’s note: All claims expressed in this article are solely those of the authors and do not necessarily represent those of their affiliated organizations, or those of the publisher, the editors and
