e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: liver, ihcc, case, intrahepatic, disease, cholangiocarcinoma, cases, diagnosis, intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, resection, common, wilson, tumor, hepatic, treatment


All claims expressed in this article are solely those of the authors and do not necessarily represent those of their affiliated organizations, or those of the publisher, the editors and the reviewers. Any product that may be evaluated in this article, or claim that may be made by its manufacturer, is not guaranteed or endorsed by the publisher This work is licensed under Creative Common Attribution- e942372-1 Indexed in: [PMC] [PubMed] [Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI)] NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) [Web of Science by Clarivate] Jang E.J. et al: IHCC in WD © Am J Case Rep, 2024; 25: e942372 Background There have been occasional reports of hepatocellular carcino- ma (HCC) in WD. However, the incidence of intrahepatic chol- Wilson’s disease (WD) is characterized by the accumulation of angiocarcinoma (IHCC) is even rarer in this condition . Here, excessive copper in vital organs such as the liver, brain, and we report a case of successful treatment of IHCC in a 39-year- kidneys . This autosomal recessive disorder, which affects old woman and discuss IHCC in WD. copper metabolism, occurs in approximately 1 in 30 000 indi- viduals . It causes progressive liver damage and neurological impairment . WD presents a wide spectrum of clinical mani- Case Report festations related to hepatic disease, ranging from asymptom- atic patients to acute liver failure . Hepatobiliary malignan- A 39-year-old woman diagnosed with IHCC was referred for cies are common in other chronic liver diseases. Hepatobiliary surgery. She was first diagnosed with WD at the age of 17 malignancies appear to be uncommon in WD, even among pa- years and had been prescribed D-penicillamine for 10 years tients with cirrhosis, although the exact reasons for this find- and had been taking zinc acetate, without any specific find- ing are unclear. Contradictory theories exist regrading copper ings. A 19-mm intrahepatic mass was suspected on follow-up accumulation in the liver: some propose it has a protective ef- ultrasonography 22 years after the WD diagnosis. fect against carcinoma through chromatin stabilization, while others associate it with elevated hepatic malignancy risk [6-8]. A B C D Figure 1. Preoperative computed tomography shows intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma in left liver. Noncontrast (A), arterial (B), portal venous (C), and delayed phases (D). This work is licensed under Creative Common Attribution- e942372-2 Indexed in: [PMC] [PubMed] [Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI)] NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) [Web of Science by
