e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: liver, ihcc, case, intrahepatic, disease, cholangiocarcinoma, cases, diagnosis, intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, resection, common, wilson, tumor, hepatic, treatment


with minimal liver and this mechanism is related to the stabilization of cellular cirrhosis. During surgery, there was no evidence of metastasis, chromatin [1,6-8]. However, other studies have demonstrated significant lymph node involvement, or intraoperative compli- that accumulation of copper increases susceptibility to HCC, a cations. The patient was discharged after 7 days without any risk that can potentially be prevented through the administra- postoperative complications. Upon histological examination, tion of D-penicillamine. This research suggests that carcino- the mass was diagnosed as a cholangiocarcinoma, moderate- genesis may arise from liver damage, subsequently leading to ly differentiated. Grossly, it was an ill-defined mass with di- chronic inflammation and cirrhosis due to chronic copper ac- mensions of 42 mm×26 cm with low- to high-grade biliary in- cumulation . Recent research indicates that certain ge- traepithelial neoplasia. Clear bile and parenchymal resection netic variations, particularly the c.3972C > T variant at exon 28 margins were also observed (margin of clearance: 0.9×0.8 cm). of the ABCC2 gene, may play a role in enhancing susceptibil- Immunochemical studies showed positive results for cytoker- ity to primary liver cancer, including both HCC and IHCC . atin 7, 19, and P53 (Figure 3). Among the hepatic malignancies, there are fewer IHCC cases in As adjuvant chemotherapy, 8 cycles of capecitabine were ad- WD, with only 14 cases reported to date, including the present ministered postoperatively, and the patient remained healthy study. Two of the reports were cohort studies , whereas without recurrence for 15 months after surgery (Figure 4). the others were case reports [1,14-16]. Although details for This work is licensed under Creative Common Attribution- e942372-5 Indexed in: [PMC] [PubMed] [Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI)] NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) [Web of Science by Clarivate] Jang E.J. et al: IHCC in WD © Am J Case Rep, 2024; 25: e942372 these cases were not included, 7 of the 14 cases were treated hepatic malignancy. Close observation enables early detection, surgically, including our case, and various treatments for the which, in turn, facilitates timely surgical intervention and con- remaining cases were applied, including liver transplantation, tributes to favorable outcomes, as observed in the present case. radiofrequency ablation, and chemotherapy according to the tumor and liver condition at the time of diagnosis (Table 1). Conclusions Generally, IHCC is the second most common malignancy aris- ing from the liver, accounting for 3% of all cases of gastroin- In summary,
