e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: liver, ihcc, case, intrahepatic, disease, cholangiocarcinoma, cases, diagnosis, intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, resection, common, wilson, tumor, hepatic, treatment


the time of diagnosis (Table 1). Conclusions Generally, IHCC is the second most common malignancy aris- ing from the liver, accounting for 3% of all cases of gastroin- In summary, despite the limited understanding of the causes testinal cancer . Liver resection is a fundamental compo- and rarity of hepatic malignancy in WD, owing to the possi- nent of any curative treatment approach for IHCC, although bility of IHCC, careful monitoring should be implemented and only approximately 20% of cases are eligible for resection at appropriate treatment plans established by the time of diag- the time of diagnosis . The primary objective of surgery nosis for good outcomes. is to achieve a complete margin-negative resection (R0) while considering the functional capacity of the liver and ensuring Department and Institution Where Work Was Done oncologic radicality. These factors, along with the patient’s per- tion success. In the present case, the tumor was resectable by Medicine, Busan, South Korea. the time of diagnosis, and the sufficient residual liver volume and oncologic radicality were obtained for successful treat- Ethic statement ment. Oncological radicality pertains to the goal of achieving complete removal of the tumor, often including the removal This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Dong-A of surrounding tissues and lymph nodes to minimize the risk University Hospital (IRB No. DAUH IRB 23-082). of cancer recurrence. Declaration of Figures’ Authenticity Approximately 50% of patients with WD have liver nodules detected on imaging, most of which are typically benign . All figures submitted have been created by the authors who Although it is a very low probability, the livers of patients with confirm that the images are original with no duplication and WD should be carefully followed up owing to the possibility of have not been previously published in whole or in part.
