Adrenal Androgens
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, dhea, endocrinol, human, androgen, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab, women, fetal, receptor, androgens, zona


ABSTRACT Adrenal androgens (AA) are 19 carbon (C19) steroids that are secreted by the adrenal cortex through complicated biosynthetic pathways, which are regulated by complex mechanisms not completely understood as of yet. Adrenal steroidogenesis differs between the fetal and adult adrenal not only in regard to the site of production, but also in their significance for the human organism. The production of the AA is coordinated by a large number of adrenal and non-adrenal regulators. These steroids exert a number of effects in normal physiology and their excess may cause a number of different kinds of disorders. INTRODUCTION Adrenal androgens (AAs), normally secreted by the fetal adrenal zone and the zona reticularis of the adrenal cortex, are steroid hormones with weak androgenic activity. They include dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS), androstenedione (A4), androstenediol (Α5) and 11β-hydroxyandrostenedione (11βOHA4) ( 1 ). DHEA and DHEAS are secreted in greater quantities than the other adrenal androgens. Although these steroids have little androgenic activity, they provide a pool of circulating precursors for peripheral conversion to more potent androgens (e.g. testosterone, T) and estrogens, (e.g. estradiol) ( 2 - 6 ). The production of T by the adrenal glands is minimal ( 7 ). Although adrenal androgens do not appear to play a major role in the fully androgenized adult man, they seem to play a role in the adult woman and in both sexes before puberty. Girls, women, and prepubertal boys may be negatively affected by AA hypersecretion in contrast to adult men. This chapter reviews AA biosynthesis, regulation, physiology and biological action. New data suggest that the principal androgen made by the human adrenal is 11-ketotestosterone (11-KT), a rarely studied steroid. ADRENAL GLAND ANATOMY Fetal Adrenal Gland Figure 1: Ontogenesis of steroidogenic enzymes in the human fetal adrenal gland. This schematic representation is divided into portions showing the fetal adrenal gland (right) at the first, second and third trimesters of pregnancy, and the adult adrenal gland (left). During the first trimester, the fetal gland is composed of a definitive zone (DZ, light grey) and a fetal zone (FZ, darker grey). Fetal zone (FZ) - expressing the P450C17 cytochrome, is responsible for massive secretion of DHEA and DHEA/S, used by the placenta as estrogen precursors. Second trimester - chromaffin cells (CC, darkest grey) originating from the neural crests migrate through the fetal cortex to progressively colonize the center of the gland to form the
