Adrenal Androgens
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, dhea, endocrinol, human, androgen, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab, women, fetal, receptor, androgens, zona


precursors. Second trimester - chromaffin cells (CC, darkest grey) originating from the neural crests migrate through the fetal cortex to progressively colonize the center of the gland to form the future medulla (Med). Third trimester - the newly constituted transitional zone (TZ, medium grey) acquires the enzyme 3ß-HSD while the expression of P450C17 remains, thus allowing the production of fetal cortisol. Near birth, cells of the definitive zone which express only 3ß-HSD, acquire the P450aldo and begin to secrete mineralocorticoids such as aldosterone. Neonatal - the fetal adrenal regresses strongly (mainly due to the regression of the fetal zone) and recovers progressively during the first years of extra-uterine life. Adult - adult adrenal gland is composed of the zona glomerulosa (ZGlo, light grey), zona fasciculata (ZFasc, medium grey) and zona reticularis (ZRet, darker grey) responsible for the production of mineralocorticoids (aldosterone), glucocorticoids (cortisol) and androgens (DHEA-DHEA/S), respectively. P450scc - cytochrome P450 side chain cleavage; Pregn. – pregnenolone; P450C17 - cytochrome P450 17a-hydroxylase, 17-20 lyase; 17OHP5 - 17-hydroxy-pregnenolone; DHEA/S - dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate; S-Tfase - DHEA sulfotransferase; 3ß-HSD - 3ß-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase; Prog. – progesterone; 17OHP4 - 17-hydroxyprogesterone; P450C21 - cytochrome P450 21-hydroxylase; P450C11 - cytochrome P450 11ß-hydroxylase; P450aldo - cytochrome P450 aldosterone synthase. Fetal adrenal cortex arises from mesodermal cells migrating from the celomic epithelium very early in the embryonic period. Thus, adrenocortical tissue can be found in the ovaries, spermatic cord and testes. By the second month of gestation, the developing human fetal adrenal acquires two rudimentary, but distinct, zones: the inner fetal zone which consists of large eosinophilic cells, and the outer definitive zone , which is comprised of small, densely packed basophilic cells ( 8 - 9 ) ( Figure 1 ). At about the ninth week of gestation, the developing human fetal adrenal is completely encapsulated. Ultrastructural studies also have revealed a third zone between the inner fetal zone and the definitive zone, the transitional zone ( 10 ). Cells in this zone show intermediate characteristics ( 11 ) and they demonstrate the capacity to synthesize cortisol, being histologically similar to cells of the zona fasciculata of the adult adrenal cortex. By the 30th week of gestation, the human fetal adrenal cortex manifests a rudimentary form of the adult adrenal cortex; the definitive zone and the transitional zone begin to resemble the zona glomerulosa and the zona fasciculata , respectively ( 12 ). Although the fetal zone is functionally
