Adrenal Androgens
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, dhea, endocrinol, human, androgen, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab, women, fetal, receptor, androgens, zona


adrenal cortex; the definitive zone and the transitional zone begin to resemble the zona glomerulosa and the zona fasciculata , respectively ( 12 ). Although the fetal zone is functionally similar to the adult zona reticularis (where DHEA-S is produced), it produces, unlike the adult zona reticularis , large amounts of other sulfated D5 steroids, including pregnenolone sulfate and 17a-hydroxypregnenolone sulfate. Soon after birth, human fetal adrenal undergoes rapid involution due to the rapid regression of the inner fetal zone followed by a decrease in androgen secretion ( 12 - 17 ). Thus, the total weight of the glands decreases by approximately 50%. ( 11 , 18 ). Dramatic remodeling of the postnatal adrenal gland involves a complex combination of inner fetal zone regression and development of the zone glomerulosa and fasciculate ( 12 , 19 ). Because morphological studies have identified rudimentary zone glomerulosa and fasciculata during late gestation, the development of these zones may occur from their primordial structures, although there has been a general belief that the adult cortical zones develop from the persistent definitive zone ( 13 ). Various genetic disorders of steroidogenesis, which constitute human “gene knockout experiments of nature”, indicate that fetal adrenal steroidogenesis, and the fetal adrenal zone itself, are not essential for fetal development, survival, or parturition ( 20 ). Aging results in tissue-rearrangements within the adrenal cortex while there is a relative increase of the outer cortical zones ( 21 ). As far it regards to the zona reticularis , after a continuous growth until young adulthood (20 to 25 years), it remains at a plateau for 5 to 10 years, and it regresses gradually after the reproductive period of life ( 22 - 23 ). Adult Adrenal Gland The adult adrenal glands, consisting of cortex and medulla, have a roughly pyramidal shape, lie above the upper poles of the kidneys in the retroperitoneum and weigh approximately 4g each. They are well supplied with arterial blood from branches of the phrenic arteries, the aorta, and the renal arteries, which give rise to the superior, middle, and inferior adrenal arteries, respectively. Arterial blood enters from the outer cortex, flows through fenestrated capillaries between the cords of cells, and drains into venules in the medulla. On the right side, the adrenal vein directly enters the inferior vena cava; on the left side, it usually drains into the left renal vein. The adrenal cortex
