Adrenal Androgens
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, dhea, endocrinol, human, androgen, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab, women, fetal, receptor, androgens, zona


the medulla. On the right side, the adrenal vein directly enters the inferior vena cava; on the left side, it usually drains into the left renal vein. The adrenal cortex is divided into three histologic and functional zones: the outer, aldosterone-secreting, called zona glomerulosa ; the intermediate, predominantly cortisol and corticosterone secreting, called zona fasciculata ; and the inner, predominantly androgens secreting called zona reticularis ( Figure 2 ). Each one is characterized by the expression of specific steroidogenic enzymes, which result in the production of different steroid hormones. Zona glomerulosa constitutes about 15% of cortical volume. Zona fasciculata is the thickest part of the adrenal cortex, constructing about 75% of the cortex, produces cortisol as well as small amounts of androgens and estrogens. Zona reticularis surrounds the medulla and produces the adrenal androgens and small amounts of cortisol and estrogens ( 24 ). Zona glomerulosa is deficient in 17a – hydroxylase activity and thus cannot produce cortisol and androgens. Whereas zona glomerulosa is primarily regulated by angiotensin II and corticotropin (ACTH), both zona fasciculata and zona reticularis are regulated by ACTH ( 25 ). Both of these zones become hypofunctional and atrophic when ACTH is deficient while they become hypertrophic and hyperplastic when ACTH is secreted in excess. Figure 2: Schematic presentation of the adrenal zones and the main products of each zone. Downloaded from: georgiahealth.edu The anatomical alterations of the adrenal cortex that occur during lifespan are followed by a marked decline in circulating adrenal C19 steroids and their resulting androgen metabolites. This decline takes place mainly between the age groups of 20-30 and 50-60 yr, with smaller changes observed after the age of 60 yr ( 26 ). ADRENAL STEROIDS AND BIOSYNTHESIS OF ADRENAL ANDROGENS Main Biosynthetic Pathway Of Adrenal Steroids All human steroid hormones derive from cholesterol. Plasma lipoproteins are the major source of adrenal cholesterol. Low–density lipoprotein (LDL) accounts for about 80% of cholesterol delivered to the adrenal gland. There are specific cell surface LDL receptors on the adrenal tissue. Synthesis within the gland from acetyl-coenzyme A also occurs. A small pool of free cholesterol within the adrenal is available for acute response when stimulation occurs. Acute stimulation leads to hydrolysis of stored cholesteryl esters to free cholesterol, increased uptake from plasma lipoproteins and increased cholesterol synthesis within the gland ( 27 ). In addition, there is evidence that the adrenal can utilize high density
