Adrenal Androgens
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, dhea, endocrinol, human, androgen, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab, women, fetal, receptor, androgens, zona


to free cholesterol, increased uptake from plasma lipoproteins and increased cholesterol synthesis within the gland ( 27 ). In addition, there is evidence that the adrenal can utilize high density lipoprotein HDL cholesterol through HDL receptor, SR-B1 ( 28 ). Cholesterol enters the steroidogenic pathway by the action of the enzyme cholesterol esterase and transferred from the outer mitochondrial membrane of steroidogenic cells to the inner mitochondrial membrane by the steroid acute regulatory (STAR) protein. This transport is followed by the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone which is the first step of steroid synthesis and the major action of ACTH on adrenals ( Figure 3 ). The conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone requires the action of the cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme, commonly referred to as P450scc, encoded by the CYP11A gene located on chromosome 15 in mitochondria. This cleavage gives birth to 21-carbon (C21) molecules resulting from the C27 cholesterol molecule. These reactions require molecular oxygen and a pair of electrons. The electrons are donated by nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) to adrenodoxin reductase (flavoprotein) and then to adrenodoxin (an iron-sulfur protein) and finally to P450scc. Electron transport to microsomal cytochrome P450 involves the enzyme P450 reductase ( Figure 4 ). The steroid hormones produced by the adrenal cortex are members of a large family of compounds derived from the cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene ring structure that comprises three cyclohexane rings and one cyclopentane ring. P450scc is needed for the production of all steroids in the human body, including those produced by the adrenal. It is expressed in all adrenal cortex zones, and although its expression is obligatory for the synthesis of C19 steroids (DHEA, DHEA-S, and A4) it is the presence of downstream enzymes that determines whether these cells produce C21 corticosteroids or C19 steroids ( Figure 5 ). Figure 3: The role of the mitochondrion in the adrenal steroidogenesis. Figure 4: Reaction mechanism of hydroxylations catalyzed by cytochrome P-450s of adrenal cortex mitochondria. Abbreviations: XH = substrate; XOH = product; Fp = flavoprotein; ISp = iron-sulfur protein. Figure 5: Adrenal androgen biosynthetic pathway. Biosynthesis Of Adrenal Androgens. The second step of adrenal steroidogenesis is mediated by cytochrome P450 17A1 enzyme which acts both as a hydroxylase hydroxylating pregnenolone, and as a lyase splitting the C17–C20 bond of 17-hydroxypregnenolone (17OHP5), resulting in the production of DHEA ( 29 - 31 ). Specifically, CYP17A1 gene encodes a protein that catalyzes two metabolic pathways,
