Adrenal Androgens
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, dhea, endocrinol, human, androgen, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab, women, fetal, receptor, androgens, zona


3βHSD peaks at the 8 th to 9 th gestational week, resulting in the production of cortisol at 8 th to 10 th gestational week, decreasing thereafter and being undetectable at 14 th gestational week. The decrease of HSD3B2 expression is followed by a decrease of cortisol synthesis. The transient cortisol synthesis by the 10 th gestational week may exert a negative feedback on ACTH secretion suppressing adrenal synthesis of androgenic C19 steroids during the time of genital differentiation. Thus, in humans, early cortisol biosynthesis provides a mechanism to safeguard female sexual development ( 9 , 37 ). Given that fetal adrenal cell has a low expression of HSD3B2 gene until the end of 2 nd trimester ( 38 - 39 ) it becomes evident that the fetal adrenal gland is more likely to produce Δ5 steroids, especially DHEA, than Δ4 steroids with mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid activities. This low HSD3B2 expression is apparent also in adrenarche where the characteristic expansion of zona reticularis , demonstrating lower concentration of HSD3B2 compared to the adjacent zona fasciculata , facilitates the increased amount of DHEAS which marks the prepubertal to adult life transition ( 40 - 42 , 36 ). Finally, Δ4 can be converted to T, although adrenal secretion of this hormone is minimal ( Figure 5 ) ( 43 - 45 ). Human type 5 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (encoded by the 17β-HSD) catalyzes the conversion of A4 to T ( 46 - 47 ). The fetal as well as the postnatal adrenal also expresses AKR1C3 gene in zona reticularis , which appears to be responsible for the small amount of T produced directly by the adrenal glands ( 48 ) and is likely responsible for the larger amounts of androgens produced in congenital adrenal hyperplasia. CIRCULATION AND METABOLISM Adrenal androgens are secreted from the adrenal cortex in an unbound state. Bound steroids are biologically inactive. Androstenedione, DHEA and DHEAS bind mainly to albumin. About 90% of adrenal androgens are bound to albumin and 3% approximately are bound to sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG). The binding globulins have high affinity and low capacity, whereas, albumin has low affinity and high capacity for steroids. Adrenal androgens can follow two different pathways after entering the circulation. Their metabolism turns either towards degradation and inactivation or towards peripheral conversion to their more potent derivatives T and dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Adrenal androgens and their metabolites are inactivated or degraded
