Adrenal Androgens
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, dhea, endocrinol, human, androgen, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab, women, fetal, receptor, androgens, zona


Their metabolism turns either towards degradation and inactivation or towards peripheral conversion to their more potent derivatives T and dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Adrenal androgens and their metabolites are inactivated or degraded in various tissues, including liver and kidney ( 49 ). Major biochemical routes for inactivation and excretion are conjugation of androgens to glucuronate or sulfate residues to produce hydrophilic glucuronides or sulfates, respectively, excreted in the urine ( Figure 6A ). Figure 6: Metabolism of adrenal androgens in the pilosebaceous unit (A) and adipocyte tissue (B). Abbreviations: A, Δ4-androstenedione; T, testosterone; DHT, dihydrotestosterone; R, receptor; 3β-HSD, 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase; 17β-HSD, 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase; 5α-r, 5α-reductase; 3α-, 3β -diol, 3α-androstenediol, 3β-androstenediol; 3α-, 3β- diol-G, 3α-diol-glucuronide, 3β-diol-glucuronide; androsterone-G, androsterone glucuronide; ar, aromatase; E1, estrone; E2, 17β-estradiol DHEA, DHEAS, and A4 are converted to the potent androgens T and DHT in peripheral tissues. Major conversions are those of A4 to T and T to DHT by the enzymes 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17β-HSD) and 5α-reductase, respectively. Major peripheral sites of androgen conversion are the hair follicles, the sebaceous glands ( Figure 6A ), the prostate, the external genitalia and the adipose tissue ( 50 - 51 ). DHEAS is the sulfated version of DHEA. This conversion is catalyzed by sulfotransferase (SULT2A1) primarily in the adrenals, the liver, the kidney and small intestine. The concentrations of DHEAS in the circulation are about 300 times greater than those of free DHEA. The former show no diurnal variation, whereas the latter reach their peak in the early morning hours. DHEA secreted by the adrenal gland can be also converted to A4. Both DHEA and DHEAS are also metabolized to 7α and 16α – hydroxylated derivatives and by 17β reduction to Α5 and its sulfate. Androstenedione is converted either to T or by reduction of its 4,5-double bond to etiocholanolone or androsterone. Testosterone is converted to DHT in androgen-sensitive tissues by 5β reduction. The product is mainly metabolized by 3α reduction to 3α androstanediol. The metabolites of these androgens are conjugated either as glucuronides or sulfates and excreted in the urine. Active uptake of androgens and in situ estrogen synthesis occur in peripheral adipose tissue ( Figure 6B ) through the enzymes 17β-HSD and aromatase, respectively ( 52 - 55 ). Peripheral conversion contributes significantly to circulating T concentration in women, but not in men, in whom T is largely produced by the testis. Three main enzyme complexes are involved in
