Adrenal Androgens
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, dhea, endocrinol, human, androgen, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab, women, fetal, receptor, androgens, zona


group C, member 4) is a type of nuclear receptor that is activated by binding to T or DHT in the cytoplasm and then trans-locates into the nucleus. The AR is most closely related to the progesterone receptor, while progestins in higher dosages can block AR. Androgen receptors are encoded by the AR gene located on the X-chromosome at Xq11-12 ( 59 ). This gene contains a polymorphic CAG microsatellite repeat within exon 1, encoding for a variable length of polyglutamine chain at the amino terminal, the transactivation domain of the AR protein. Triplet-repeat DNA sequences can be sites of genetic instability, and their expansion in a variety of genes has been associated with human genetic diseases, such as fragile X-syndrome ( 60 - 61 ) and myotonic dystrophy ( 62 ). In the case of the AR gene, an inverse correlation of the number of CAG repeats with the risk for prostate cancer was described ( 63 - 66 ) and its expansion was documented in Kennedy's disease (spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy), a disorder associated with primary hypogonadism due to androgen insensitivity ( 67 ). In vitro studies showed that progressive expansion of the repeat length in the AR was associated with a linear decrease in its transactivation function ( 68 ). These observations support the idea that there is an optimal number of repeats, which varies in the population from 11 to 31 (average size: 21±2) ( 63 ). Methylation of deoxycytosine residues is another process involved in the modulation of gene expression. Belmont et al. ( 69 ) showed that the methylation of HpaII and HhaI sites near the polymorphic CAG repeats in the first exon of the human AR (HUMARA) locus correlated with X-inactivation. Patients with idiopathic hirsutism were shown to have a normal number of CAG repeats but with a preponderance of the shortest and most active alleles ( 70 ). These patients had also a preferential methylation of the longer AR allele compared to normal subjects, leading to inactivation of the functionally weaker gene. This skewing could allow the shorter, more active AR allele ( 64 , 68 ) to be preferentially expressed explaining the peripheral hypersensitivity to androgens in hirsute patients. Multiple "coactivators" were identified enhancing transcription of the AR gene ( 71 ) including AP-1 ( 72 ), Smad3 ( 73 - 74 ), nuclear factor kB (NF-kB) ( 75 -
