Adrenal Androgens
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, dhea, endocrinol, human, androgen, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab, women, fetal, receptor, androgens, zona


"coactivators" were identified enhancing transcription of the AR gene ( 71 ) including AP-1 ( 72 ), Smad3 ( 73 - 74 ), nuclear factor kB (NF-kB) ( 75 - 76 ) sex-determining region Y (SRY) ( 77 ) and the Ets family of transcription factors ( 78 ). The relative importance of these molecules for any particular cell type remains unclear, since the ability of a putative coregulator to alter the transcriptional activity is typically examined in transient transfection experiments. Although AR is normally thought to function as a homodimer, it was also shown to heterodimerize with other nuclear receptors including the estrogen receptor (ER) ( 79 ) glucocorticoid receptor (GR) ( 80 ) and testicular orphan receptor 4 (TR4) ( 81 ). One of the major mechanisms through which coregulators might function is by forming a bridge between the DNA-bound nuclear receptor and the basal transcriptional machinery (type I regulators) ( 82 ). Coactivators may also facilitate ligand binding, promote receptor nuclear translocation, or mediate signal transduction (type II coregulators). The role of "corepressors" in AR function is poorly defined. Three corepressors of androgen-bound AR have been identified to date, cyclin D1, calreticulin, and HBO1. However, relatively little is known about the mechanism of their repressive effect. ADRENAL ANDROGEN PHYSIOLOGY AND REGULATION Regulation Adrenal androgens are secreted by the adrenal glands in response to ACTH, a 39-amino acid peptide synthesized and secreted by the anterior pituitary ( Figure 8 ). It is derived from proopiomelanocortin (POMC), a large precursor molecule from which β-lipotropin hormone and β-endorphin are also derived ( 83 - 84 ). ACTH is the predominant form of corticotropin in plasma and has a half-life of approximately 10 minutes ( 85 ). Its synthesis and secretion are primarily regulated by corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and arginine-vasopressin (AVP), both of which are produced by parvocellular neurons of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and act in synergy with each other ( 86 - 87 ). Under ACTH regulation, adrenal androgens are secreted synchronously with cortisol. There are three mechanisms of neuroendocrine control: [1] episodic secretion and the circadian rhythm of ACTH, [2] stress responsiveness of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA), [3] feedback inhibition of ACTH secretion by cortisol. [1] Figure 8: Schematic presentation of the adrenal androgen regulation. Downloaded from: wikis.lib.ncsu.edu The circadian rhythm is the result of the central nervous system regulation of CRH and ACTH nyctohemeral secretory
