Adrenal Androgens
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, dhea, endocrinol, human, androgen, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab, women, fetal, receptor, androgens, zona


Figure 8: Schematic presentation of the adrenal androgen regulation. Downloaded from: wikis.lib.ncsu.edu The circadian rhythm is the result of the central nervous system regulation of CRH and ACTH nyctohemeral secretory episodes. The major secretory episodes begin in the sixth to eighth hour of sleep and then begin to decline as wakefulness occurs. Cortisol secretion then gradually declines during the day with fewer secretory episodes ( 88 ). The circadian rhythm of adrenal androgens is typical in different physiologic and pathologic conditions. Patients with nonclassical 21-hydroxylase deficiency, for example, have a distinct pattern of adrenal steroid secretion characterized by a high-frequency 17-hydroxyprogesterone release accompanied by a relative nocturnal cortisol deficiency ( 89 - 90 ). [2] Plasma ACTH and cortisol secretion are secreted within minutes following the onset of physical stress. This response abolishes circadian periodicity if the stress is prolonged. Stress responses originate in the CNS and result to CRH and ACTH secretion. [3] Corticotropin-stimulated cortisol exerts major feedback inhibitory influences at the concentration of both the hypothalamus and the anterior pituitary by suppressing CRH and ACTH synthesis and secretion. Plasma DHEA, A4, and T concentrations parallel closely the circadian rhythm of plasma cortisol. Plasma DHEA-S concentrations do not exhibit a circadian rhythm because of the much longer circulating half-life of this sulfated steroid ( 91 - 92 ). Numerous other endocrine signals ( 93 ) were proposed as coregulators of adrenal androgen secretion. Among these are prolactin (PRL) ( 94 ), estrogen ( 95 - 99 ), epidermal growth factor ( 100 ), prostaglandins ( 101 ), angiotensin ( 102 ), GH ( 103 ), gonadotropins ( 104 - 105 ), β-lipotropin, and β-endorphin. Glasow et al. reported the presence of PRL receptors in the human adrenal gland and suggested a direct effect of PRL on adrenal steroidogenesis that may be of particular relevance in clinical disorders characterized by hyperprolactinemia ( 106 ). Interestingly, adults with hyperprolactinemia have increased secretion of AAs by the zona reticularis, which is corrected by reduction of PRL secretion with bromocriptine ( 107 ). In women with PRL-secreting tumors there is a correlation between PRL concentration and DHEA-S ( 108 ). Pabon et al. ( 109 ) have detected the presence of LH- HCG receptors in zona reticularis and fasciculata. The receptor bearing cells were positive for steroidogenic enzymes, indicating that the receptors could be coupled to DHEAS secretion ( 110 - 112 ).
