Adrenal Androgens
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, dhea, endocrinol, human, androgen, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab, women, fetal, receptor, androgens, zona


receptors in zona reticularis and fasciculata. The receptor bearing cells were positive for steroidogenic enzymes, indicating that the receptors could be coupled to DHEAS secretion ( 110 - 112 ). Cytokines interfere with steroidogenesis at the level of the adrenals, testes and ovaries. Within the adrenal adrenocortical and chromaffin cells cytokines such as interleukin (IL) 1, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor (TNF), leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and IL-18 are produced. They have a key role in the immune-adreno-cortical communication. Thus, in autoimmune and inflammatory diseases an adequate adrenal stress response is observed. In addition, cytokines such as IL-8 and monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) are involved in steroidogenesis ( 113 ). ΙL-6 also is known to activate the HPA axis by stimulating both the CRH and the AVP -secreting neurons of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, and their terminals at the median eminence, the corticotrophs of the anterior pituitary, and the cortisol-secreting adrenal cells in rats. In the latter it acts through specific receptors expressed mainly in the zona fasciculata and reticularis, but also with lower density in the zona glomerulosa ( 114 - 115 ). The ability of IL-6 to stimulate glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, and androgens suggests that this cytokine might have a role in coordinating the response of all adrenocortical zones. Its secretion is regulated by different substances, such as CRH, ACTH, angiotensin II, or immune products such as IL-1 α/β indicating that IL-6 may play a major role in the interaction of the adrenal function with the immune/inflammatory reaction ( 116 ). Interleukin 1 and TNF regulate the activity of HPA axis at several levels. Studies investigated their action on adrenal steroidogenesis and indicated that IL-1α and IL-1β increase cortisol, A4, DHEA, DHEAS production and the accumulation of mRNAs for STAR, 17α-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase (CYP17A1) and HSD3B2 in these cells. TNF induced cortisol production ( 117 ). Both ACTH and PRL stimulate AAs secretion by the fetal adrenal zone. In addition, placental CRH appears to play a major role in sustaining this zone and stimulating androgen secretion together with corticotropin and/or PRL ( 118 ). Physiology Adrenal androgens are secreted in small amounts during infancy and early childhood. DHEAS is maintained at minimum concentrations for 5 years in both male and females, after which a gradual increase is observed ( 115 ). Their secretion gradually increases with age, paralleling the growth of zona fasciculata and zona reticularis. Disturbances in both enzymatic
