Adrenal Androgens
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, dhea, endocrinol, human, androgen, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab, women, fetal, receptor, androgens, zona


females, after which a gradual increase is observed ( 115 ). Their secretion gradually increases with age, paralleling the growth of zona fasciculata and zona reticularis. Disturbances in both enzymatic activity in zona fasciculata and zona reticularis and its regulators (ACTH or peptides of hypothalamic – pituitary origin, such as PRL) may result in syndromes of hirsutism and virilization in females. Adrenal cortex normally secretes androgens in increasing amounts beginning at about 6-7 years of age in girls and 7-8 years of age in boys. This rise continues until late puberty. Adrenarche (secretion of adrenal androgens) occurs years before gonadarche (secretion of gonadal sex steroids). The appearance of pubic hair (pubarche) results from a rise in adrenal androgen concentration (adrenarche) ( 116 - 117 ). The mechanism(s) by which zona fasciculata and zona reticularis develop with age, as well as the regulation of adrenarche onset are not understood. The biochemical hallmark of adrenarche is accelerated DHEAS production from the adrenal gland. The axillary and pubic hair regions are the most sensitive androgen-dependent regions and they represent the clinical manifestation of adrenarche. Children with premature pubarche demonstrate hormonal responses to CRH stimulation test similar in magnitude to those of prepubertal children of comparable age, ruling out a prominent role of CRH in premature pubarche ( 118 ). Gell et al. suggested that as children mature, a decrease of HSD3B2 activity in the adrenal zona reticularis occurs, leading to an increased production of DHEA and DHEA-S, as seen during adrenarche, by shifting pregnenolone through the 17α-hydroxylase/17, 20 lyase pathway ( Figure 5 ) ( 39 ). Activation of the type 1 insulin-like growth factor (IGF1) receptor was shown to enhance steroidogenic responsiveness of the fetal zone cells to ACTH by modulating the ACTH signal transduction pathway at some point downstream from ACTH receptor binding ( 119 ). Also, locally produced IGF2 modulates fetal adrenocortical cells function by increasing responsiveness to ACTH via activation of the IGF1 receptor and increases the capacity of those cells for androgen synthesis by directly augmenting the expression of P450c17 ( 119 ). Thus, IGF2 may play a pivotal role in AA production, both physiologically in utero and at adrenarche, as well as in conditions of hyperandrogenemia ( 119 ). All together, these data indicate that the IGF system is important in the regulation of the differential function of adult human adrenocortical cells ( 120 ). The rise
