Adrenal Androgens
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, dhea, endocrinol, human, androgen, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab, women, fetal, receptor, androgens, zona


debated. Adrenal androgens hypersecretion in prepubertal boys, on the other hand has clearly been associated with isosexual precocious puberty. In adult women, adrenal A4 and A4 generated from peripheral conversion of DHEA contribute substantially to total androgen production and effects. In the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle, adrenal precursors account for two thirds of T production and half of DHT production. At midcycle, the ovarian contribution increases, and the adrenal precursors account for 40% of T production. In women, increased AA production may be manifested as cystic acne, hirsutism, male type baldness, menstrual irregularities, oligoovulation or anovulation, infertility, and/or frank virilization. Excessive adrenal androgen secretion in prepubertal or pubertal girls can cause heterosexual precocious puberty. Abnormalities in the timing and intensity of adrenarche are associated with PCOS, congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) and insulin resistance conditions. Recently, we have shown that in postmenopausal PCOS women, androgen concentration at baseline are greater in PCOS than control women and remain increased after ACTH stimulation, while the results of the dexamethasone suppression test in postmenopausal PCOS women suggest that DHEAS and total T are partially of adrenal origin ( 131 ). Although the ovarian contribution was not fully assessed, increased A4 production suggests that the ovary also contributes to hyperandrogenism in postmenopausal PCOS women. In conclusion, this study indicates that postmenopausal PCOS women are exposed to higher adrenal and ovarian androgen concentrations than non-PCOS women ( 131 ). Studies conducted over the past few years have investigated the use of DHEA to treat female infertility ( 132 - 133 ). Women with poor ovarian reserve, after DHEA supplementation 4 to 12 weeks prior an in vitro fertilization (IVF) cycle, had a 50-80% reduction in miscarriages ( 134 ). However, its efficacy in treating infertility remains controversial ( 135 - 137 ). Reports demonstrate DHEA as a replacement therapy in the elderly ( 138 - 139 ). At 70-80 years of age, peak DHEA concentrations are about 10-20% of those in young adults. These reports suggest DHEA as replacement treatment in menopausal women; it has been reported to restore both the androgenic and estrogenic environment and reduce most of the symptoms of menopause ( 140 - 142 ). Other reports have suggested that oral DHEA in doses of 25-50 mg/d may restore plasma T concentrations to normal in some women with hypopituitarism who have diminished libido despite adequate estrogen therapy ( 143 - 145
