Adrenal Androgens
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, dhea, endocrinol, human, androgen, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab, women, fetal, receptor, androgens, zona


DHEA in doses of 25-50 mg/d may restore plasma T concentrations to normal in some women with hypopituitarism who have diminished libido despite adequate estrogen therapy ( 143 - 145 ). In addition, DHEA replacement therapy has been investigated for the conditions of adrenopause and adrenal insufficiency ( 146 - 149 ). In spite of these few reports so far DHEA does not appear to be effective for perimenopausal symptoms ( 135 ) nor has it been shown to be effective as an “anti-aging” agent, as its effects in trials on cognitive function, body composition, insulin resistance, and well-being have been inconsistent ( 150 - 157 , 146 ). Based upon available data, the Endocrine Society guidelines, suggested against the routine use of DHEA for sexual function (or other indications) in postmenopausal women because of its limited efficacy and lack of long-term safety data ( 158 ). Clinical trial data on the efficacy of DHEA therapy in women with primary adrenal insufficiency are mixed. In several studies of women with premature ovarian insufficiency (POI), serum ovarian androgen concentrations (A4 and/or T) were lower than those of age-matched women without ovarian insufficiency, but similar to those seen in older postmenopausal women ( 159 - 161 ). In contrast, DHEAS concentrations were normal (although they would be expected to be low in those women with coexisting primary adrenal insufficiency). Potential side effects of androgen replacement include hirsutism and acne, and with oral preparations (e.g. DHEA), dyslipidemia. However, in women with autoimmune ovarian failure and coexisting adrenal insufficiency, adrenal androgen therapy with DHEA may be beneficial. Other studies investigate the role of DHEA and DHEAS in the immune response and suggest that adrenal androgens have opposite biological effects to those of corticosteroids ( 162 ). DHEA is a cortisol antagonist ( 163 ). Research studies indicate DHEA supplementation has an anti-depressant effect ( 164 - 166 ). Exogenous DHEA has been proposed to have a number of potential benefits (on sexual function, depression, cognition, and inflammation), but available clinical trial data do not support these claims ( 115 , 167 - 168 , 137 ). It is widely available in some countries as a dietary supplement; however, quality control of these products has been shown to be quite poor ( 169 , 170 ). Both gonadal and AAs contribute to the positive impact of androgenic steroids on bone cell metabolism in vitro (
