Adrenal Androgens
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, dhea, endocrinol, human, androgen, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab, women, fetal, receptor, androgens, zona


been shown to be quite poor ( 169 , 170 ). Both gonadal and AAs contribute to the positive impact of androgenic steroids on bone cell metabolism in vitro ( 171 ). Interestingly, a study found that the potential anabolic effect of androgens on bone might not be mediated at the level of the mature osteoblast but at the level of fetal, less differentiated, osteoblastic cell lines ( 172 ). Finally, although A4 seems to increase serum T and estrone concentrations when administered acutely to women, ( 173 ) the impact of regular use on sexual function or its potential androgenic side effects in women are unknown CONCLUSIONS The physiology of adrenal androgens follows the different periods of life starting from the fetal period. During this period, the secretion of these hormones from the fetal adrenal is important. It is not clarified as yet its role in the fetal development or survival, while it is of major importance for parturition. DHEA is the most prevalent steroid hormone in the body. After birth DHEA(S) concentrations fall rapidly with the involution of the fetal adrenal and rise slowly during childhood accelerating at adrenarche before the onset of puberty. The physiology of adrenarche is well described although its trigger has not been identified yet. DHEA concentrations drop dramatically with aging. There are pronounced differences in the average DHEA concentrations between men and women, with women on average having lower DHEA concentrations. The spectrum of women and men that would benefit from DHEA therapy is not clearly defined. Further studies are needed to investigate the side effects of the DHEA replacement therapy and to define the range of dosage that is more effective without complications. During menopause transition mean circulating DHEAS concentrations exhibit a positive inflection starting in the early perimenopause, continuing through the early post menopause and returning to early perimenopausal concentrations by late post menopause. This rise in mean DHEAS is accompanied by concomitant rises in T, DHEA, A4, and an equal rise in A5. Studies have shown that the mean A4 and T concentrations changed the least while mean DHEAS and A5 changed the most. The role of these changes in altering the estrogen/androgen balance in menopause is not known. REFERENCES 1. Rege J, Nakamura Y, Satoh F, et al. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis of human adrenal vein 19-carbon steroids before and after ACTH stimulation. The Journal of clinical endocrinology
