Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: bleeding, syndrome, hermansky-pudlak syndrome, hermansky-pudlak, platelet, pulmonary fibrosis, pulmonary, colonoscopy, bleeding diathesis, diathesis, cancer, colitis, fibrosis, patients, polyps


Open Access Case Report DOI: Hermansky-Pudlak Syndrome: A Rare Cause of Post-polypectomy Bleeding Ahmed Baiomi 1 , Hafsa Abbas 2 , Anil Dev 3 Corresponding author: Ahmed Baiomi, Abstract A colonoscopy is an effective tool for colorectal cancer screening, which aims at identifying precancerous polyps and removing them. Post-polypectomy bleeding (PPB) is one of the most common complications of endoscopic polypectomy. Here, we report a rare and interesting case of a 68-year-old man known to have Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome (HPS) who presented with two days history of rectal bleeding one day after he had a screening colonoscopy with polypectomy. He had a drop in his hemoglobin count and was admitted to the medicine floor and given 1-desamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin (DDAVP). Later, his bleeding stopped and he reported improvement in his symptoms. This case illustrates the importance of considering platelet transfusion and/or administration during minor surgical procedures for patients with bleeding diathesis such as Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome. Categories: Genetics, Gastroenterology, Hematology Keywords: hermansky‐pudlak syndrome, post polypectomy bleeding, rectal bleed, gastrointestinal disease, albinism, bleeding diathesis Introduction Colorectal cancer is the third most common cause of cancer death worldwide . Most cases of colorectal cancer develop through the adenoma-carcinoma cycle. The United States Preventive Services Task Force recommends colorectal cancer screening for asymptomatic individuals above the age of 50 years . The aim of screening colonoscopy is to identify and remove adenomatous polyps that may progress to colon cancer. Post-polypectomy bleeding is a known complication after colonoscopy. Studies have reported the rate of post-polypectomy bleeding as 0.4% per colonoscopy performed ; here, we report an interesting case of post-polypectomy bleeding in a patient with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome (HPS). Case Presentation A 68-year-old Hispanic man of Puerto Rican descent presented to the emergency department with a two-day history of a small amount of bright red rectal bleeding twice daily. He denied any associated symptoms like abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or constipation, shortness of breath, dizziness, or syncope. He Review began [DATE] Review ended [DATE] was noted to have thrombocytopenia with a platelet count of 87 k/ul. One day prior to this event, he Published [DATE] underwent a screening colonoscopy that showed two polyps in the ascending colon (12 and 14 mm in size) removed with hot snare polypectomy. Post-intervention hemostatic clip and epinephrine were injected. © Copyright 2021 Baiomi et al. This is an open access Pathology showed inflammatory polyps. He has a background history of hypertension,
