Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: bleeding, syndrome, hermansky-pudlak syndrome, hermansky-pudlak, platelet, pulmonary fibrosis, pulmonary, colonoscopy, bleeding diathesis, diathesis, cancer, colitis, fibrosis, patients, polyps


polypectomy. Post-intervention hemostatic clip and epinephrine were injected. © Copyright 2021 Baiomi et al. This is an open access Pathology showed inflammatory polyps. He has a background history of hypertension, dyslipidemia, article distributed under the terms of the coronary artery disease, Hermansky Pudlak syndrome, squamous cell cancer of the skin status post- CC-BY 4.0., which permits unrestricted afebrile, with stable vital signs. His abdominal examination revealed no tenderness and the rectal exam use, distribution, and reproduction in any showed brown stool. The rest of the review of systems and physical examination was unremarkable. medium, provided the original author and source are credited. Laboratory tests showed a decrease in his hemoglobin from a baseline of 13 gm/dl to 11.0 gm/dl and thrombocytopenia to 80k/ul, the rest of his laboratory workup was normal. Hematology service was consulted and advised to give 20 mg of 1-desamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin (DDAVP). The patient was admitted to the medicine floor for observation. He did not have any further episodes of rectal bleeding, his hemoglobin level remained stable, and he was discharged with gastroenterology follow-up. free and reported no further episodes of rectal bleeding. Discussion Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome is a rare autosomal disorder characterized by oculocutaneous albinism, a bleeding diathesis secondary to platelet dysfunction, and other organ involvement specific to certain types, including granulomatous colitis and pulmonary fibrosis . Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome results from the abnormal formation of intracellular vesicles resulting in melanosome dysfunction leading to oculocutaneous albinism and the absence of platelet-dense bodies leading to bleeding diathesis. How to cite this article Baiomi A, Abbas H, Dev A (March 09, 2021) Hermansky-Pudlak Syndrome: A Rare Cause of Post-polypectomy Bleeding. Cureus 13(3): e13781. DOI Mistrafficking leads to pulmonary fibrosis and granulomatous colitis . Ten subtypes of Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome have been identified depending on the defective gene leading to different presentations . Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome is a rare disease with a prevalence of 1 in a million. However, it is common in Puerto Ricans, affecting approximately one in 1,800 persons, and approximately one in 22 are carriers of the gene . The clinical presentation of Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome may vary among the 10 subtypes depending on the defective gene, however, all subtypes are characterized by oculocutaneous albinism and platelet storage pool deficiency. HPS-1 and HPS-4 are recognized as severe forms of the disorder and they usually have granulomatous colitis and pulmonary fibrosis. HPS-3 patients can have colitis but have no manifested pulmonary fibrosis.
