Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: bleeding, syndrome, hermansky-pudlak syndrome, hermansky-pudlak, platelet, pulmonary fibrosis, pulmonary, colonoscopy, bleeding diathesis, diathesis, cancer, colitis, fibrosis, patients, polyps


and HPS-4 are recognized as severe forms of the disorder and they usually have granulomatous colitis and pulmonary fibrosis. HPS-3 patients can have colitis but have no manifested pulmonary fibrosis. Types 3, 4, and 5 are associated with a milder presentation. Cutaneous manifestation includes a decrease in skin and hair pigmentation varying from a complete absence of color to a relative decrease in skin and hair color. Ocular manifestations include absence or decrease in retinal pigment and macular degeneration resulting in photophobia, decreased visual acuity, and nystagmus . Bleeding diathesis due to platelet dysfunction will result in easy bruising, gingival bleeding, and prolonged bleeding after minor procedures, including circumcision, dental extraction, and normal vaginal delivery . Pulmonary fibrosis will result in progressive dyspnea on exertion and respiratory failure . Granulomatous colitis will present with symptoms like those of inflammatory bowel disease like abdominal pain, fever, weight loss, malabsorption, and frequent watery and bloody diarrhea . The diagnosis of Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome is usually suspected when a patient with diffuse hypopigmentation of the skin, hair, iris, and retina presents with bleeding diathesis especially if he reports Puerto Rican ancestry. Routine blood tests will show prolonged bleeding time with normal prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time, but patients would have abnormal platelet aggregation using platelet stimulants such as adenosine diphosphate or epinephrine, and a platelet aggregometer. Electron microscopy will show the absence of dense granules, which are essential for hemostasis and their absence will result in bleeding diathesis . Chest X-ray and computed tomography (CT) can show increased reticular opacities, thickened interlobular septa, and ground-glass infiltrates in addition to fibrotic changes, including traction bronchiectasis and honeycombing in patients with subtypes leading to pulmonary fibrosis . A colonoscopy will show superficial crypt abscesses, a prominent inflammatory cell infiltration in involved areas, and inflammatory polyps in patients with granulomatous colitis. The definitive diagnosis is through genetic testing, which will also help in the identification of the subtype through the involved defective gene. There is no definitive treatment for Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome. Our goal is to help the patient manage the symptoms that may arise and in secondary prevention. The patient should wear protective sunglasses and avoid exposure to the sun to protect against the development of skin cancers. Bleeding episodes can be handled with local pressure when applicable or platelet transfusion and the use of desmopressin. Also, surgery should be planned in coordination with a hematology
