Peripheral arterial disease
KEYWORDS: people, pad, data, risk, local, exercise, supervised exercise, supervised, quality, claudication, imaging, disease, intermittent claudication, intermittent, symptoms


Quality statements Statement 1 People who have symptoms of, or who are at risk of developing, peripheral arterial disease (PAD) are offered a clinical assessment and ankle brachial pressure index (ABPI) measurement. Statement 2 People with PAD are offered an assessment for cardiovascular comorbidities and modifiable risk factors. Statement 3 People with intermittent claudication are offered a supervised exercise programme. Statement 4 People with PAD being considered for revascularisation who need further imaging after a duplex ultrasound are offered magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). Statement 5 People with intermittent claudication are offered angioplasty only when imaging has confirmed it is appropriate, after advice on the benefits of modifying risk factors has been given and after a supervised exercise programme has not improved symptoms. Quality statement 1: Identification and assessment of peripheral arterial disease Quality statement People who have symptoms of, or who are at risk of developing, peripheral arterial disease (PAD) are offered a clinical assessment and ankle brachial pressure index (ABPI) measurement. Rationale Early identification of both asymptomatic and symptomatic PAD means that treatment can begin earlier, potentially slowing disease progression and improving quality of life through better mobility and reduced pain. Early identification and treatment of PAD and its risk factors may also reduce the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and the need for lower limb amputation. A comprehensive assessment should include both a clinical assessment with structured history taking, and ABPI measurement with a hand-held doppler ultrasound scan to ensure an accurate diagnosis and quantification of disease severity. Quality measures Structure (a) Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that health and social care practitioners receive training to recognise the symptoms of PAD. Data source: Local data collection. (b) Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that people who have symptoms of, or who are at risk of developing, PAD are offered a clinical assessment and ABPI measurement. Data source: Local data collection. (c) Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that all healthcare practitioners undertaking hand-held doppler ultrasound assessment of ABPI are appropriately trained. Data source: Local data collection. Process (a) Proportion of people who have symptoms of PAD who receive a clinical assessment and ABPI measurement. Numerator: the number of people in the denominator receiving a clinical assessment and ABPI measurement. Denominator: the number of people who have symptoms of PAD. Data source: Local data collection. (b) Proportion of people who are at risk of developing PAD who
