Peripheral arterial disease
KEYWORDS: people, pad, data, risk, local, exercise, supervised exercise, supervised, quality, claudication, imaging, disease, intermittent claudication, intermittent, symptoms


and ABPI measurement. Denominator: the number of people who have symptoms of PAD. Data source: Local data collection. (b) Proportion of people who are at risk of developing PAD who receive a clinical assessment and ABPI measurement. Numerator: the number of people in the denominator receiving a clinical assessment and ABPI measurement. Denominator: the number of people at risk of developing PAD. Data source: Local data collection. Outcome Disease severity at diagnosis. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers ensure that hand-held doppler ultrasounds are adequately available; that staff are trained to recognise the symptoms of PAD; and that people who have symptoms of PAD or who are at risk of developing it are offered a clinical assessment and ABPI measurement. Health and social care practitioners ensure that they are aware of the symptoms of PAD and the need to have these symptoms assessed; that they are aware of the risk factors for PAD; and that healthcare practitioners ensure that they offer a clinical assessment and ABPI measurement to people who have symptoms of PAD or who are at risk of developing it. Commissioners ensure that they commission services that have an adequate supply of hand-held doppler ultrasounds, and have staff trained to carry out clinical assessments and ABPI measurements in people who have symptoms of PAD or who are at risk of developing it. People with possible peripheral arterial disease, and people who are at risk of developing peripheral arterial disease receive a thorough assessment to find out whether or not they have it, in which they are asked about their symptoms, their legs and feet are examined, their pulses are checked, and the blood pressures in their arms and ankles are compared. Source guidance Peripheral arterial disease: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline CG147 (2012, updated 2020), recommendations 1.3.1 and 1.3.2 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Symptoms of PAD Symptoms include: • non-healing wounds on the legs or feet • unexplained leg pain • pain in the leg when walking that resolves when stopping (intermittent claudication), pain in the foot at rest, often made worse by elevation (for example, in bed at night disturbing sleep and relieved by hanging the foot down) • tissue loss (ulceration or gangrene). [Adapted from NICE's guideline on peripheral arterial disease] People at risk of PAD These include people who: • have diabetes
