Peripheral arterial disease
KEYWORDS: people, pad, data, risk, local, exercise, supervised exercise, supervised, quality, claudication, imaging, disease, intermittent claudication, intermittent, symptoms


hanging the foot down) • tissue loss (ulceration or gangrene). [Adapted from NICE's guideline on peripheral arterial disease] People at risk of PAD These include people who: • have diabetes or • are being considered for interventions to the leg or foot (for example, podiatric and orthopaedic foot surgery and chiropody) or • need to use compression hosiery. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on peripheral arterial disease, recommendation 1.3.1] Clinical assessment This should include: • asking about the presence and severity of possible symptoms of intermittent claudication and critical limb ischaemia using a structured questionnaire • examining the legs and feet for evidence of critical limb ischaemia, for example, tissue loss (ulceration and/or gangrene) • examining the femoral, popliteal and foot pulses. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on peripheral arterial disease, recommendation 1.3.2] ABPI measurement Recommendation 1.3.3 in NICE's guideline on peripheral arterial disease provides guidance on how this should be done. Quality statement 2: Comorbidity assessment Quality statement People with peripheral arterial disease (PAD) are offered an assessment for cardiovascular comorbidities and modifiable risk factors. Rationale People with both asymptomatic and symptomatic PAD have an increased risk of mortality from cardiovascular disease, mainly due to heart attack and stroke. It is therefore important to assess people with PAD for other cardiovascular comorbidities and modifiable risk factors, so that appropriate evidence-based treatment, advice and support can be given to reduce this risk. Quality measures Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that people with PAD are offered an assessment of cardiovascular comorbidities and modifiable risk factors. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of people with PAD who receive an assessment of cardiovascular comorbidities and modifiable risk factors. Numerator: the number of people in the denominator receiving an assessment of cardiovascular comorbidities and modifiable risk factors. Denominator: the number of people with PAD. Data source: Local data collection. Data on the percentage of patients with PAD in whom the last blood pressure reading (measured in the preceding 12 months) is 150/90 mmHg or less, the percentage of patients with PAD in whom the last measured total cholesterol (measured in the preceding 12 months) is 5 mmol/l or less, and the percentage of patients with PAD with a record in the preceding 12 months that aspirin or an alternative antiplatelet is being taken, are available in the Quality and Outcomes Framework (QOF) indicators PAD002, PAD003 and PAD004. What the quality statement means for
