Peripheral arterial disease
KEYWORDS: people, pad, data, risk, local, exercise, supervised exercise, supervised, quality, claudication, imaging, disease, intermittent claudication, intermittent, symptoms


months that aspirin or an alternative antiplatelet is being taken, are available in the Quality and Outcomes Framework (QOF) indicators PAD002, PAD003 and PAD004. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers ensure that staff are trained to carry out assessments for cardiovascular comorbidities and modifiable risk factors. Healthcare practitioners ensure that they offer people with PAD an assessment for cardiovascular comorbidities and modifiable risk factors. Commissioners ensure that they commission services so that staff are trained on how to assess for cardiovascular comorbidities and modifiable risk factors. People with peripheral arterial disease are offered an assessment to check their risk of having a heart attack or a stroke, and identify any lifestyle factors that they can alter to reduce their risk (for example, eating healthily, reducing alcohol consumption, stopping smoking, maintaining a healthy weight and exercising regularly). Source guidance Peripheral arterial disease: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline CG147 (2012, updated 2020), recommendation 1.2.1 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Assessment of cardiovascular comorbidities and modifiable risk factors This should include a review of: • smoking status • diet • weight • cholesterol levels • presence of diabetes • presence of hypertension • current antiplatelet therapy. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on peripheral arterial disease, recommendation 1.2.1] Quality statement 3: Supervised exercise programmes Quality statement People with intermittent claudication are offered a supervised exercise programme. Rationale Supervised exercise programmes can improve walking distance and quality of life for people with intermittent claudication. However, the provision of services varies across the country and so there is a need for both new provision and improvement in existing care. Quality measures Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure the availability of supervised exercise programmes. Data source: Local data collection. Process (a) Proportion of people with intermittent claudication who are offered a supervised exercise programme. Numerator: the number of people in the denominator offered a supervised exercise programme. Denominator: the number of people with intermittent claudication. Data source: Local data collection. (b) Proportion of people with intermittent claudication who start a supervised exercise programme. Numerator: the number of people in the denominator starting a supervised exercise programme. Denominator: the number of people with intermittent claudication offered a supervised exercise programme. Data source: Local data collection. (c) Proportion of people with intermittent claudication who complete a supervised exercise programme. Numerator: the number of people in the denominator completing a supervised exercise programme.
