Peripheral arterial disease
KEYWORDS: people, pad, data, risk, local, exercise, supervised exercise, supervised, quality, claudication, imaging, disease, intermittent claudication, intermittent, symptoms


source: Local data collection. (c) Proportion of people with intermittent claudication who complete a supervised exercise programme. Numerator: the number of people in the denominator completing a supervised exercise programme. Denominator: the number of people with intermittent claudication who start a supervised exercise programme. Data source: Local data collection. Outcome (a) Improvement in pain-free walking distance. Data source: Local data collection. (b) Improvement in health-related quality of life. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers ensure the availability of a supervised exercise programme for all people with intermittent claudication. Healthcare practitioners ensure that they offer supervised exercise programmes to all people with intermittent claudication. Commissioners ensure that they commission supervised exercise programmes that can be offered to all people with intermittent claudication. People who have pain when walking because of poor circulation are offered a supervised exercise programme to gradually build up their pain-free walking distance and improve their quality of life. Source guidance Peripheral arterial disease: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline CG147 (2012, updated 2020), recommendation 1.5.1 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Intermittent claudication A walking- or exercise-induced pain in the lower limbs caused by diminished circulation. [NICE's full guideline on peripheral arterial disease] Supervised exercise programmes This may involve the following components: • 2 hours of supervised exercise a week for a 3-month period • encouraging people to exercise to the point of maximal pain. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on peripheral arterial disease, recommendation 1.5.2] Quality statement 4: Imaging Quality statement People with peripheral arterial disease (PAD) being considered for revascularisation who need further imaging after a duplex ultrasound are offered magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). Rationale Imaging should only be performed in people with PAD if it is likely to provide information that will influence their management. Duplex ultrasound followed by MRA, where clinically appropriate and if needed, offers the most accurate, safe and cost-effective imaging strategy for people with PAD. However, local training and expertise and the availability of imaging equipment may be variable. Quality measures Structure (a) Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that healthcare practitioners undertaking imaging are appropriately trained in the use of duplex ultrasound and MRA for PAD. Data source: Local data collection. (b) Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that people with PAD being considered for revascularisation who need further imaging after a duplex ultrasound are offered MRA. Data source: Local
