Peripheral arterial disease
KEYWORDS: people, pad, data, risk, local, exercise, supervised exercise, supervised, quality, claudication, imaging, disease, intermittent claudication, intermittent, symptoms


collection. (b) Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that people with PAD being considered for revascularisation who need further imaging after a duplex ultrasound are offered MRA. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of people with PAD being considered for revascularisation needing further imaging after a duplex ultrasound who receive MRA. Numerator: the number of people in the denominator receiving MRA. Denominator: the number of people with PAD being considered for revascularisation who need further imaging after a duplex ultrasound. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers ensure that imaging equipment is adequately available, and that people with PAD who are being considered for revascularisation and need further imaging after a duplex ultrasound are offered MRA. Healthcare practitioners ensure that they offer MRA to people with PAD who are being considered for revascularisation who need further imaging after a duplex ultrasound imaging. Commissioners ensure that they commission services with adequate availability of imaging equipment and which offer MRA to people with PAD being considered for revascularisation who need further imaging after a duplex ultrasound. People with peripheral arterial disease whose healthcare practitioner thinks surgery might help to improve their blood flow, are offered imaging tests (for example, an ultrasound) to see whether surgery would be suitable. Source guidance Peripheral arterial disease: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline CG147 (2012, updated 2020), recommendations 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 1.4.3 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Revascularisation Any procedure that is used to restore blood flow to an area of the body that is supplied by narrowed or blocked arteries. This can be done either by making the narrowed arteries wider (angioplasty, stenting), or by using another blood vessel to bypass the blocked or narrowed artery (bypass surgery). [Adapted from NICE's guideline on peripheral arterial disease, information for the public] People being considered for revascularisation This includes people: • with intermittent claudication, who should be offered angioplasty only when: － advice on the benefits of modifying risk factors has been reinforced (see recommendation 1.2.1 in NICE's guideline on peripheral arterial diseaseand － a supervised exercise programme has not led to a satisfactory improvement in symptoms and － imaging has confirmed that angioplasty is suitable for the person • being considered for primary stent placement, for treating people with intermittent claudication caused by complete aorto-iliac occlusion (rather than stenosis) • with critical limb ischaemia who
