Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, prolactin, hyperprolactinemia, patients, treatment, dopamine, cabergoline, levels, endocrinol, prolactinomas, serum, pregnancy, clin, tumor


ABSTRACT Hyperprolactinemia is the most common hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction, being an important cause of irregular menses and infertility amongst young women. Clinical and laboratorial investigation is crucial to determine hyperprolactinemia etiology and to indicate the proper treatment. Prolactinoma is the most common cause of pathological hyperprolactinemia, but physiological and pharmacological causes must be ruled out. Macroprolactinemia is a laboratorial pitfall that should be excluded in asymptomatic hyperprolactinemic individuals since treatment is not necessary. Hook effect is another laboratorial pitfall that may underestimate prolactin levels confounding the differential diagnosis between macroprolactinomas and non-functioning pituitary adenomas. Clinical treatment with dopamine agonists (DA) is effective in 80 to 90% of patients with prolactinoma leading to normal serum prolactin levels and tumor reduction. DA are usually well tolerated, nevertheless, valvopathy and psychiatric side effects should be actively evaluated. Normoprolactinemia after DA withdrawal is possible in around 30% of cases. Hypogonadism and infertility are usually reversed upon prolactin levels normalization due to DA treatment, allowing pregnancy in most patients. In micro and intrasellar macroprolactinomas, DA can be withdrawn after pregnancy confirmation. Pregnancy and menopause are associated with prolactinoma remission. Surgical treatment may be indicated in resistant/intolerant patients and symptomatic apoplectic tumors. In patients with non-invasive microadenoma or macroadenoma, surgical management could be offered as the first line treatment, considering high surgical remission. Radiotherapy is rarely performed and must be reserved to control tumor growth in aggressive cases. Temozolomide is an alternative treatment for resistant/aggressive prolactinomas not responding to high doses of dopamine agonists, multiple surgeries, and radiotherapy. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Prolactin secreting pituitary tumors are the most common type of hormone secreting pituitary tumors ( 1 ). They are also the only pituitary tumors which can be effectively managed primarily by medical means ( 2 ). Therefore, their identification and diagnosis are imperative to avoid unnecessary pituitary surgery. PROLACTIN SECRETION Prolactin is secreted by the lactotrophs in the anterior pituitary gland and its secretion is regulated by the hypothalamus. Unlike the other anterior pituitary hormones, the hypothalamic influence is predominantly of tonic inhibition ( 3 ). The hypothalamus secretes prolactin-release-inhibiting factors (PIF) and prolactin-releasing factors (PRF). PIF is predominantly exerted by dopamine, with GABA having a minor role ( 4 ). Prolactin controls its own secretion through a short loop of negative feedback, stimulating the tuberoinfundibular dopamine (TIDA) neurons. Nevertheless, the
