Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, prolactin, hyperprolactinemia, patients, treatment, dopamine, cabergoline, levels, endocrinol, prolactinomas, serum, pregnancy, clin, tumor


circulatory pathway from the hypothalamus down the pituitary stalk to the normal lactotrophs, or a tumor, producing effective dopamine deficiency due to a functional stalk section. Besides tumors, infectious and inflammatory diseases such as hypophysitis, sarcoidosis, and tuberculosis can also cause pituitary stalk disconnection. Lactotroph Insensitivity to Dopamine Dopamine receptors have been found on human pituitary lactotroph adenoma cells. Receptor sensitivity to dopamine could be diminished, which would explain the lack of response to increased endogenous dopamine stimulation. However, an obvious response of the receptors to pharmacologic dopamine agonists (DA) makes this possibility less likely. Certain drugs act as dopamine-receptor-blocking agents and thus release lactotrophs from their hypothalamic inhibition, resulting in hyperprolactinemia. For detailed information about pharmacological causes of hyperprolactinemia and its management, see the Endotext chapter entitled “ Pharmacological Causes of Hyperprolactinemia” ( 10 ). Stimulation of Lactotrophs Hypothyroidism may be associated with hyperprolactinemia, if there is an increase in TRH which can act as a PRL. Ectopic GHRH secretion can also cause hyperprolactinemia, due to stimulation of lactotrophs ( 11 , 12 ). Estrogens act directly at the pituitary level, causing stimulation of lactotrophs, and thus enhance prolactin secretion. Furthermore, estrogens increase the mitotic activity of lactotrophs, increasing cell numbers. Pregnancy and breastfeeding are physiological causes of hyperprolactinemia ( Figure 1 ). Injury to the chest wall can also lead to hyperprolactinemia. These results from abnormal stimulation of the reflex associated with the rise in prolactin that is seen normally in lactating women during suckling ( 6 ). Figure 1. Mean prolactin levels throughout pregnancy. High estrogens levels during pregnancy stimulates the lactotrophs leading to hyperprolactinemia. Prolactin levels increase with gestational age. [Adapted from Hu et. Al ( 13 )]. Figure 2. Mechanism of hyperprolactinemia. Dopamine is the main regulatory factor of lactotrophs and exerts an inhibitory function. When dopamine does not reach the normal lactotrophs (for example, in pituitary stalk effect), hyperprolactinemia occurs. Hyperprolactinemia also occurs due to hyperestrogenism and increased levels of TRH (for example in primary hypothyroidism) ( 6 ). CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS OF HYPERPROLACTINEMIA The symptoms associated with hyperprolactinemia may be due to several factors: the direct effects of excess prolactin, such as the induction of galactorrhea or hypogonadism, the effects of the structural lesion causing the disorder (i.e. the pituitary tumor), leading to, for example, headaches, visual field defects, or external ophthalmoplegia; or associated dysfunction of secretion of other anterior pituitary hormones ( 14
