Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, prolactin, hyperprolactinemia, patients, treatment, dopamine, cabergoline, levels, endocrinol, prolactinomas, serum, pregnancy, clin, tumor


causing the disorder (i.e. the pituitary tumor), leading to, for example, headaches, visual field defects, or external ophthalmoplegia; or associated dysfunction of secretion of other anterior pituitary hormones ( 14 ). Galactorrhea is an inconsistent marker of hyperprolactinemia ( 15 ). Approximately 50% of women with galactorrhea have normal prolactin and the incidence of galactorrhea in hyperprolactinemic patients is between 30% and 80%. In patients with extremely high prolactin levels and hypogonadism, galactorrhea may not be found, as minimum estrogen levels are necessary for this physical sign to occur. A woman with amenorrhea due to hyperprolactinemia does not develop the breast atrophy seen in postmenopausal women or women with amenorrhea who are gonadotropin-deficient or have primary ovarian failure. On examination, the breast and areola are well developed, and the Montgomery tubercles are hyperplastic. In male patients with hyperprolactinemia, there is usually no gynecomastia, but milk may be expressed from an entirely normal-sized male breast. The incidence of galactorrhea in men with hyperprolactinemia is low, less than 30% (i.e., it is much less common than in women). Nevertheless, the presence of galactorrhea in man with a pituitary mass is an important clinical clue for the presence of hyperprolactinemia and possible prolactinomas ( 3 ). Women with hyperprolactinemia usually present with menstrual abnormalities – amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea – or anovulatory regular cycles. Mildly hyperprolactinemia may cause infertility due to luteal insufficiency, even in women with regular menses ( 16 ). Occasionally, patients may present with menorrhagia. Menstrual disorders are often not seen with mild hyperprolactinemia but it is unusual not to have menstrual problems if serum prolactin is greater than 180 ng/mL (3,600 mU/L) ( 17 ). In men, testosterone levels are usually low but can occasionally be normal ( 18 ) The pathogenesis of the hypogonadal state in hyperprolactinemia is poorly understood. Results from an animal model study suggest that hyperprolactinemia inhibits gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) pulsatility by reducing kisspeptin input, considered the major controlling point of reproduction ( 19 ). Moreover, kisspeptin administration restored hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian function in two hyperprolactinemic women ( 20 ) . Suppression of gonadal function results from multiple mechanisms beyond GnRH inhibition via kisspeptin. These include reduced gonadotropin secretion due to impaired positive estrogen feedback on luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion in women ( 21 ), increased adrenal androgen secretion ( 22 ), and direct blockade of gonadotropin action at the gonadal level ( 23 , 24 ). Additionally,
