Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, prolactin, hyperprolactinemia, patients, treatment, dopamine, cabergoline, levels, endocrinol, prolactinomas, serum, pregnancy, clin, tumor


(LH) secretion in women ( 21 ), increased adrenal androgen secretion ( 22 ), and direct blockade of gonadotropin action at the gonadal level ( 23 , 24 ). Additionally, prolactin reduces the normal pulsatility of LH, critical for gonadal function, and may disrupt LH and FSH actions at the gonads by inhibiting progesterone synthesis and stimulating adrenal androgen secretion ( 21 - 24 ). Men often present clinical manifestations late in the course of the disease with symptoms of expansion of their pituitary tumor (i.e. headaches, visual defects, and external ophthalmoplegia) or symptoms from secondary adrenal or thyroid failure. Nevertheless, these men can usually present sexual impairment for many years before their diagnosis. It is unknown if macroprolactinomas are more commonly seen in men due to these delayed diagnosis and/or if prolactinoma´s pathogenesis is different in men ( 25 ). In contrast to women in whom microprolactinomas are most commonly seen, macroprolactinomas are usually found in men and the serum prolactin levels are usually much higher than those in women ( 26 ). Occasionally, hyperprolactinemia may occur in prepubertal or peripubertal children, when it may present with delayed or arrested puberty, headache, visual field defects, or growth arrest. Children and adolescents often present with larger and more aggressive prolactinomas, especially in boys ( 27 ). In this population, there is a high prevalence of genetic abnormalities in lactotroph tumors, therefore a recent consensus for pituitary adenomas in children and adolescents recommends offering genetic testing to all pediatric patients to inform management and family surveillance ( 28 ). MEN1 and AIP mutations should be screened, as the most prevalent genetic conditions in this population are MEN 1 and FIPA ( 29 ). More rarely, mutations in the genes CKDN1B, MAX, and SDHx variants could be seen. Persistent hyperprolactinemia could negatively impact skeletal health, not only because of the hypogonadism. In vitro studies suggest that prolactin excess acts in the osteoblast increasing the expression of RANKL and reducing osteoprotegerin ( 30 , 31 ). In animal models, prolactin influences bone physiology by three different mechanisms: increasing intestinal calcium absorption, by a direct effect on bone cells, and through hypogonadism ( 32 ). Both men and women with prolactinoma can present with persistent impaired bone mineral density (BMD), despite long-term control of hyperprolactinemia and hypogonadism ( 33 ).Therefore, it has been suggested that all patients with prolactinoma should be submitted to a
