Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, prolactin, hyperprolactinemia, patients, treatment, dopamine, cabergoline, levels, endocrinol, prolactinomas, serum, pregnancy, clin, tumor


persistent impaired bone mineral density (BMD), despite long-term control of hyperprolactinemia and hypogonadism ( 33 ).Therefore, it has been suggested that all patients with prolactinoma should be submitted to a bone health evaluation at diagnosis with DXA scan, morphometric vertebral fracture (VF) assessment, and 25 (OH) vitamin D levels. In patients with controlled hyperprolactinemia and without bone impairment at baseline, DXA scan should be performed every 18-24 months. If patients remains with an uncontrolled prolactinoma and presented at baseline with osteopenia/osteoporosis or VFs, the follow up with bone health assessment should be more frequent, every 12-18 months, including DXA morphometry and 25 (OH) vitamin D measurements ( 34 ). DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS It is important to exclude other causes of hyperprolactinemia: pregnancy, lactation, hypothyroidism, use of drugs that either deplete central dopamine or block dopamine receptors, and renal and hepatic failure. Ruling out these important causes, and any hypothalamic lesion, three common diagnostic possibilities remain: the presence of microadenoma, macroadenoma or no visible tumor at all. If patients do not harbor an identifiable tumor, they are described as having idiopathic hyperprolactinemia. It is likely, however, that patients with this condition may harbor small microprolactinomas, which were undetected with less sensitive imaging tools used in the past, and even with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) ( 3 ). Figure 5 presents a diagnostic flowchart for hyperprolactinemia. A microadenoma is described as having a maximum diameter of up to 10mm (the maximal diameter of the normal pituitary gland) while a macroadenoma has a diameter larger than 10 mm. Giant adenomas are defined as the presence of the largest diameter of the tumor being larger than 4 cm ( 35 ). A microadenoma is often visualized using MRI. Usually, the serum prolactin level is below 200 ng/mL (4000 mU/L) in patients with microadenomas. A macroadenoma that secretes prolactin is usually associated with a serum prolactin level of more than 200 ng/mL (4000 mU/L). If the patient has a macroadenoma and a serum prolactin level of less than 200 ng/mL (4000mU/L), consideration should be given to the possibility that a nonfunctioning pituitary adenoma is present, and the hyperprolactinemia is a result from the deprivation of some lactotrophs of dopaminergic inhibition ( 3 ). However, a laboratory artifact may lead to a mistaken differential diagnosis between macroprolactinomas and nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas. When prolactin is evaluated by two-site immunometric assays, large amounts of prolactin saturate both the capture
