Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, prolactin, hyperprolactinemia, patients, treatment, dopamine, cabergoline, levels, endocrinol, prolactinomas, serum, pregnancy, clin, tumor


artifact may lead to a mistaken differential diagnosis between macroprolactinomas and nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas. When prolactin is evaluated by two-site immunometric assays, large amounts of prolactin saturate both the capture and the signal antibodies, impairing their binding, causing serum prolactin to be underestimated (the so-called “high-dose hook effect”). Therefore, patients bearing macroprolactinomas, usually > 4cm in the maximal diameter, with extremely high serum prolactin levels (generally >1,000 ng/mL [>180,000 mU/L]) may present with falsely low levels, e.g. 30-120 ng/mL (600-2,400 mU/L) range, causing the patient to be misdiagnosed as harboring a nonfunctioning pituitary adenoma. In order to avoid unnecessary surgery (treatment of choice for non-functioning tumors), prolactin assays with serum dilution are recommended in patients with macroadenomas who may harbor a prolactinoma ( 36 ). Recent assays do not manifest the hook effect at PRL concentrations as high as 14,750 ng/mL (around 295,000 mIU/L) ( 37 ). Figure 3. Hook effect. In the left image, usual antigen concentrations leading to regular assay dose-response. In the right image, very high antigen concentrations saturate capture and signal antibody, leading to falsely low signal and prolactin level ( 38 ). An additional condition that interferes in the parallelism of serum PRL concentrations and prolactinoma dimensions is cystic prolactinomas, defined if 45% of lesion are the predominantly cystic sellar lesions (>50% of the volume being cystic) ( 39 ). In these lesions, serum prolactin levels are lower, but usually greater than 94 ng/mL. Differential diagnosis is important to determine the correct therapeutic intervention and includes Rathke’s cleft cysts, non-prolactin secreting cystic adenomas, craniopharyngiomas, and arachnoid cysts ( 40 ). Another laboratory pitfall concerns the presence of high serum prolactin levels in subjects with few or no symptoms related to prolactin excess. Human prolactin circulates as monomeric prolactin and in larger forms, which are indistinguishable by routine assays. Monomeric prolactin is the most common form, but serum prolactin can be elevated due to the presence of aggregates with low biological activity, such as big-big prolactin, leading to so-called macroprolactinemia. The presence of molecular aggregates with low biological activity, macroprolactin, should be suspected when high serum prolactin levels are detected in patients without or with few signs and symptoms related to hyperprolactinemia. Precipitation with polyethylene glycol (PEG) is an excellent screening method. Chromatography confirms the presence of macroprolactin but is an expensive and time-consuming method; it is performed only when PEG precipitation results are inconclusive. Macroprolactinemia
