Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, prolactin, hyperprolactinemia, patients, treatment, dopamine, cabergoline, levels, endocrinol, prolactinomas, serum, pregnancy, clin, tumor


(PEG) is an excellent screening method. Chromatography confirms the presence of macroprolactin but is an expensive and time-consuming method; it is performed only when PEG precipitation results are inconclusive. Macroprolactinemia is a common finding, present in almost 20% of the samples with hyperprolactinemia ( 41 ). Big-big prolactin biological activity is still controversial in the literature ( 42 ). Studies in vitro with rat Nb2 cells bioassays show either the presence or the absence of biological activity. In two studies with cell cultures expressing the human PRL receptor, macroprolactin did not show biological activity ( 43 , 44 ). Most patients with macroprolactinemia do not manifest clinical features related to hyperprolactinemia, and do not need any treatment. Therefore, to avoid unnecessary medical or even surgical procedures, macroprolactin screening is important to consider when clinical features and serum prolactin assay results are not consonant with one another ( 45 ). Moreover, standardization of monomeric prolactin levels after PEG precipitation is crucial to evaluate conditions that could be associated with macroprolactinemia, as prolactinomas. Therefore, monomeric prolactin levels point to real hyperprolactinemia, even in the presence of macroprolactinemia ( 46 , 47 ). Figure 4. Total serum of prolactin levels includes all forms of prolactin (macroprolactin, dimeric prolactin, and monomeric prolactin). When macroprolactinemia is suspected, polyethylene glycol (PEG) can be used to precipitate macroprolactin and enable the evaluation of monomeric prolactin in the supernatant serum ( 47 ). Figure 5. A flowchart for the diagnosis of hyperprolactinemia. In the presence of galactorrhea, loss of libido, infertility, menstrual cycle abnormality, erectile disfunction or hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, serum prolactin level should be evaluated. If hyperprolactinemia is confirmed, systemic diseases, physiological, and pharmacological causes of hyperprolactinemia should be excluded. After that, a sellar MRI should be performed. For detailed information on pituitary imaging see the Endotext chapter entitled “Radiology of the Pituitary” ( 48 ). The anatomy of the pituitary is optimally assessed by contrast-enhanced MRI. MRI allows imaging of the optic chiasm, the cavernous sinuses, the pituitary (both the normal gland and tumors), and its stalk. In addition, aneurysms of the carotid are immediately obvious. Thus, MRI allows accurate measurement of the size of the pituitary and of any tumor and its relationship to the optic chiasm and cavernous sinuses. Cisternal herniation is also readily seen. If MRI is not available, CT scanning is also helpful, but the resolution is worse, and it is less satisfactory
