Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, prolactin, hyperprolactinemia, patients, treatment, dopamine, cabergoline, levels, endocrinol, prolactinomas, serum, pregnancy, clin, tumor


chiasm and cavernous sinuses. Cisternal herniation is also readily seen. If MRI is not available, CT scanning is also helpful, but the resolution is worse, and it is less satisfactory for delineating the relationship of the diaphragm sellae with the optic chiasm ( 49 ). Figure 6. Differential diagnosis of hyperprolactinemia ( 50 ). (A) A patient with IgG4-related hypophysitis and hyperprolactinemia due to stalk pituitary effect. Serum PRL 56.1 (< 19.4) ng/mL. Sellar MRI sagittal T1 weighted without contrast showed a thickened pituitary stalk and the absence of the neurohypophysis signal. (B) A patient with a giant aneurysm (12x11x12mm) of the left internal carotid artery, depicted at a sellar MRI coronal T2 weighted (B-1) and at an arteriography (B-2) Serum PRL 68.2 (5.2-26.5) ng/mL. (C) A woman with galactorrhea, amenorrhea, serum PRL 151 (5.2-26.5) ng/mL and visual complains. Sellar MRI coronal T1 weighted after contrast showed a macroadenoma with suprasellar expansion on the left and cavernous sinus invasion on the right. Diagnosis of a non-functioning pituitary adenoma was confirmed after surgery. TREATMENT OF HYPERPROLACTINEMIA Therapeutic strategy must consider several aspects, such as the patient’s clinical presentation, the differences between microadenomas and macroadenomas concerning their natural history, the desire for pregnancy, and the patient’s treatment preference, if applicable. Medical treatment with DA drugs is highly effective at lowering serum levels of prolactin and reducing adenoma size in both microprolactinomas and macroprolactinomas. Traditionally, pituitary surgery, usually by the transsphenoidal approach, is discussed in detail in the Endotext chapter entitled “ Surgical Treatment of Pituitary Adenomas” ( 51 )) and is generally reserved for prolactinomas resistant to DA drugs. Nevertheless, recent international guidelines for management of prolactinomas discuss surgical resection of microprolactinomas and well-circumscribed macroprolactinomas as primary treatment, especially in young women ( 45 ). Pituitary macroadenoma parasellar invasiveness is usually evaluated in MRI by Knosp classification, grades 0 and 1 considered non-invasive ( 52 ). This recommendation considers cost-effectiveness, avoiding long-term DA treatment and the availability of a dedicated neurosurgeon. A meta-analysis published in 2020 found that 36% of microprolactinomas presented disease remission after DA withdrawal and 83% after surgery ( 53 ). For patients with macroprolactinomas, surgical remission was 60%, inferior to medical treatment (77%) ( 53 ), but the remission rate differs depending on the invasiveness of the adenoma. A retrospective cohort study of 78 cases found late remission rates of 64.9% in patients with Knosp 0/2, compared to
