Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, prolactin, hyperprolactinemia, patients, treatment, dopamine, cabergoline, levels, endocrinol, prolactinomas, serum, pregnancy, clin, tumor


remission rate differs depending on the invasiveness of the adenoma. A retrospective cohort study of 78 cases found late remission rates of 64.9% in patients with Knosp 0/2, compared to 47.1% and 25% in patients with Knosp 3 and 4, respectively ( 54 ). Therefore, DA is still the first line treatment for invasive macroprolactinomas and giant prolactinomas, but surgery could be an option for those non-invasive prolactinomas and, a dedicated neurosurgeon and patients’ preference. If the initial treatment with surgery is chosen, there is no indication for pre-treatment with DA. Transsphenoidal approach is also indicated to correct significant side effects of DA treatment such as cerebral spinal fluid leakage, apoplexy, and optic chiasm herniation ( 45 ). For children and young people under 19 years of age, cabergoline is the first line treatment. Surgery should be offered if the patient is intolerant or resistant to high dose cabergoline or if the patient develops deteriorating vision on cabergoline ( 55 ). Radiotherapy for prolactinomas generally brings poor results, especially regarding normoprolactinemia restoration, and is currently reserved only for macroadenomas refractory both to medical and surgical treatment ( 3 ). Dopamine Agonist Drug Therapy The first DA ergot compound to be used in clinical practice was bromocriptine, a peptide ergot. It was introduced in the early 1970s in Europe, and thus there is more than 40 years of experience using such compounds in the treatment of hyperprolactinemia. Bromocriptine has the advantage of having a long duration of action compared to dopamine itself or oral compounds such a levo-dopa ( 56 ). Bromocriptine has a similar mode of action to dopamine in stimulating dopamine receptors on the prolactin-secreting pituitary cells – D2 receptors. Stimulation of these receptors leads to inhibition of both prolactin secretion and synthesis. Subsequently a variety of other compounds have been developed which are useful additions. These include quinagolide and cabergoline ( 3 ). Cabergoline has an extremely long biological half-life and thus, generally only needs to be administered either once or twice per week, with a weekly dose of 0.5 to 2.0 mg. In addition to its long biological half-life, cabergoline is generally better tolerated than bromocriptine, increasing the patient’s adherence. Therefore, cabergoline is currently considered the first-choice drug for the treatment of prolactinomas. In a study comparing bromocriptine (2.5 to 5.0 mg twice daily) to cabergoline (0.5 to 1.0 mg twice weekly) in 459 hyperprolactinemic women with
