Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, prolactin, hyperprolactinemia, patients, treatment, dopamine, cabergoline, levels, endocrinol, prolactinomas, serum, pregnancy, clin, tumor


drug for the treatment of prolactinomas. In a study comparing bromocriptine (2.5 to 5.0 mg twice daily) to cabergoline (0.5 to 1.0 mg twice weekly) in 459 hyperprolactinemic women with amenorrhea, stable normoprolactinemia was achieved in 83% of patients on cabergoline and in 59% patients on bromocriptine ( 57 ). Ovulatory cycles or pregnancy occurred in 72% of cases on cabergoline and in 52% of cases on bromocriptine. Drug withdrawal due to adverse effects was reported in 3% of cases on cabergoline and in 12% of cases on bromocriptine. Regarding tumor size, a decrease in at least 50% was obtained in 64% of patients on bromocriptine and in 93% of patients on cabergoline ( Figure 7 ). This important beneficial effect of DA treatment can rapidly relieve mass effect symptoms such as visual impairment, without the need for surgical decompression ( Figure 8 ) ( 57 ). Doses higher than 2 mg per week of cabergoline may be used in cases with partial response ( 58 ). In men, cabergoline treatment can reverse hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in about 50-65% of the cases ( 59 , 60 ). Higher baseline testosterone, prolactin normalization, smaller initial tumor size, absence of cystic components, absence of visual field or ACTH deficits at diagnosis are related to the ability of the gonadal axis to recover ( 61 ). Constantinescu et al found that testosterone levels <213 ng/dL at 6 months was the best independent predictor of persistent hypogonadism at one year ( 60 ), reinforcing the Pituitary consensus that recommends testosterone replacement in men with ongoing hypogonadism despite dopamine agonist therapy for more than 6 months ( 45 ). Figure 7. A 32 yrs-old female patient with hyperprolactinemia (PRL 80 ng/mL), irregular menses and galactorrhea had a sellar MR showing a pituitary lesion of 0.8 cm on maximal diameter (A). After cabergoline introduction (0.5 mg/week), PRL levels normalized, paralleled with menses restoration and remission of galactorrhea. Tumoral dimensions reduction are shown: tumoral maximal diameter of 0.6 cm after two years of treatment (B) and no lesion visualization after seven years on cabergoline (C) ( 57 ). Figure 8. A 28 yrs-old man with headache, erectile disfunction, visual loss, and hyperprolactinemia. At diagnosis prolactin level was 4808 ng/mL (< 19.4 ng/mL) and a sellar MRI, coronal T1-weighted after contrast, depicted a macroadenoma, measuring 39x31 mm, with suprasellar expansion and the optic chiasma was not identified (A-1). Visual
