Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, prolactin, hyperprolactinemia, patients, treatment, dopamine, cabergoline, levels, endocrinol, prolactinomas, serum, pregnancy, clin, tumor


ng/mL (< 19.4 ng/mL) and a sellar MRI, coronal T1-weighted after contrast, depicted a macroadenoma, measuring 39x31 mm, with suprasellar expansion and the optic chiasma was not identified (A-1). Visual field demonstrated residual vision in the upper nasal field in the left eye and temporal hemianopsia in the right eye (A-2). 48 hours after cabergoline 0.5 mg, prolactin levels dropped to 591.6 ng/mL and three weeks later, on 1.5 mg/week, there was visual improvement confirmed by a visual field (B-2). Sellar MRI showed a reduction in tumor dimensions: 29x24 mm. The suprasellar expansion diminished and the optic chiasma was abutted (B-1). Prolactin levels were lower (90.4 ng/mL). After two years of clinical treatment, neuroophthalmological evaluation was completely not visible anymore in sellar MRI ©. SIDE EFFECTS Side effects of DA therapy usually occur at the start of treatment and frequently disappear with continued therapy. If treatment is started with full doses or increased too quickly, dizziness, nausea, and postural hypotension may occur. To avoid such effects, DA must always be taken during a meal. Administration should be started at night, with a snack, when the patient retires to bed. Doses can be gradually increased afterwards ( 62 ). Cabergoline and pergolide were associated with a higher risk of cardiac valvopathy in patients with Parkinson’s disease. These DA also have an agonist effect on serotonin receptor 5HT2B, present in fibroblast of cardiac valves and chordae tendineae. Fibroblast’s proliferation occurs after this receptor activation, leading to valve insufficiency, especially of tricuspid and pulmonary valves. This proposed mechanism was already described in carcinoid syndrome. Nevertheless, the mean cabergoline dose for Parkinson’s patients is 3 mg a day, much higher than the usual dose for hyperprolactinemia. Stiles et al in 2018 published a meta-analysis including 836 cabergoline-treated hyperprolactinemic patients and 1388 healthy controls from 13 published studies and there was an increase in tricuspid regurgitation; however, no patient had clinical symptoms due to tricuspid disease ( 63 ). Although moderate and severe tricuspid regurgitation was heavily influenced by data from one center ( 64 ), data from meta-analysis could not rule out an effect on cardiac valvular dysfunction of cabergoline used at “endocrine” dosages to treat hyperprolactinemia. Different guidelines suggest protocols for screening cardiac valve chances. British Society of Echocardiography, the British Heart Valve Society, and the Society for Endocrinology recommend that a standard transthoracic echocardiogram should be performed before a patient starts DA
