Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, prolactin, hyperprolactinemia, patients, treatment, dopamine, cabergoline, levels, endocrinol, prolactinomas, serum, pregnancy, clin, tumor


valve chances. British Society of Echocardiography, the British Heart Valve Society, and the Society for Endocrinology recommend that a standard transthoracic echocardiogram should be performed before a patient starts DA therapy for hyperprolactinemia, repeating this exam at 5 years after starting cabergoline in patients taking a total weekly dose less than or equal to 2 mg, or annually if the dose is greater than 2 mg a week ( 65 ). More recently, in the Pituitary Society consensus, many participants believed that it was not necessary for such a close follow up, and proposed repeating an echocardiography every 2-3 years in patients treated with > 2.0 mg/week, 5-6 years if ≤ 2.0 mg/week, and if the treatment dose is < 1.0 mg/week, repeat examinations are not necessary ( 45 ). Regarding pergolide, it was withdrawn from the market. Quinagolide, the only non-ergot derived DA, is only available in Europe. Impulse control disorders (ICD) have been associated with DA treatment, due to dopamine receptor type 3 activation, even in patients with no previous psychiatric disorder. The DA dose is not predictive of ICD risk and should be actively evaluated ( 66 ). Some of the common behaviors in ICD are hypersexuality, compulsive buying, gambling, and punding (repetitive, purposeless behavior, often involving mechanical or compulsive tasks, like sorting, collecting, or disassembling objects) ( 67 ). In five series of cases, summing up 543 patients with prolactinoma, ICD frequency varied from 8 to 61%, being hypersexuality the most common and associated with male gender ( 67 ). Prolactin-mediated hypogonadism is another risk factor for hypersexuality in men, possibly by rapid increase in testosterone levels, after prolactin normalization ( 67 ). DA withdrawn or dosage decrease led to an improvement of psychiatric symptoms. The patient must be evaluated by psychiatry and DA treatment should be reevaluated on an individualized basis ( 68 ). CAN DOPAMINE AGONIST DRUGS BE WITHDRAWN WITHOUT RECURRENCE OF HYPERPROLACTINEMIA? One of the drawbacks of medical treatment of prolactinomas is the need for long-term therapy in most of the cases. As a matter of fact, treatment with bromocriptine and other DA drugs generally is considered as “symptomatic” since DA discontinuation often leads to recurrence of hyperprolactinemia and to tumor regrowth in most patients at least after short-term use. Nevertheless, remission and normoprolactinemia after DA withdrawal can occur, especially after long-term treatment. Four meta-analyses, published between 2010 and 2022, reviewed patients treated
