Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, prolactin, hyperprolactinemia, patients, treatment, dopamine, cabergoline, levels, endocrinol, prolactinomas, serum, pregnancy, clin, tumor


most patients at least after short-term use. Nevertheless, remission and normoprolactinemia after DA withdrawal can occur, especially after long-term treatment. Four meta-analyses, published between 2010 and 2022, reviewed patients treated with cabergoline and bromocriptine ( 69 - 72 ). The recurrence rates after DA withdrawal varied from 25-100%, this great variability may be in part explained by the heterogeneity of the studies and population. The patients with higher chance for remission were those treated for a time greater than 2 years, that used cabergoline over bromocriptine, had lower dose of cabergoline at withdrawal and had significant reduction in tumor size (at least 50%). Recurrence after DA withdrawal is usually not associated with tumor growth and not necessarily needs to be treated, especially if the elevation is not accompanied by hypogonadism ( 73 ). A second attempt to DA withdrawal, after additional 24 months of treatment was also described, with lower rates of success ( 74 ). Although the exact mechanism of prolactinomas remission is not completely understood, it could also be linked to the natural history of the disease. Periodic withdrawal of DA is recommended, especially in cases with normal serum prolactin levels and tumor reduction. Prolactinoma remission is also described after pregnancy and menopause. It is suggested that estrogen-induced necrosis could lead to decreased tumor size and PRL decrease after delivery ( 3 ). Regarding menopause, the remission rate in a series with 99 patients was 73% ( 75 ). The possible mechanism underlying the remission is still not clear, but the reduction in estrogen levels and a subsequent decrease in prolactin production may play an important role. Prolactinomas Resistant to Dopamine Agonists About 15% of patients with prolactinomas are resistant to DA therapy. The Pituitary Society Consensus defined resistance as lack of normalization of prolactin serum levels or lack of relevant mass shrinkage (≥30% reduction in maximum diameter) when treated with standard dopamine agonist doses (7,5-10mg per day of bromocriptine or 2.0 mg per week of cabergoline) for at least 6 months ( 45 ). A refractory prolactinoma is an adenoma not controlled even by dose escalation to maximally tolerated doses of DA. The main resistant mechanism is reduction of D2R tumor expression ( 76 , 77 ), although D2R polymorphism ( 78 , 79 ) and low filamin A ( 80 ) expression could also be implied. If a patient has been responsive and then becomes unresponsive,
