Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, prolactin, hyperprolactinemia, patients, treatment, dopamine, cabergoline, levels, endocrinol, prolactinomas, serum, pregnancy, clin, tumor


although D2R polymorphism ( 78 , 79 ) and low filamin A ( 80 ) expression could also be implied. If a patient has been responsive and then becomes unresponsive, a pituitary carcinoma should be ruled out. The approach to the resistant prolactinoma includes escalation to maximally tolerated cabergoline dose and if necessary complementary approaches such as pituitary surgery, radiotherapy, and drugs such as temozolomide ( 81 ). Pituitary surgery, usually by transsphenoidal approach, aims for complete tumor removal or at least a vast debulking, which may lead to serum prolactin normalization with DA reintroduction in partially resistant cases. Radiotherapy is indicated in aggressive cases not controlled by surgery or drugs ( 82 ). The alkylating agent temozolomide has proven efficacy in aggressive pituitary adenomas and carcinomas, mainly the prolactin secreting ones. Complete and partial response was obtained in 56% of 32 cases reviewed in literature ( 81 ). Figure 9 illustrates sellar MR of a young man with an invasive/aggressive macroprolactinoma, resistant do dopamine agonist, multiple surgeries, and radiotherapy. Other therapies reported in case series or single reports were pasireotide, lapatinib, and tamoxifen ( 83 ). More recently, inhibitory checkpoint immunity (ICI) drugs appear to be an alternative for those cases resistant to temozolomide, especially carcinomas ( 84 ). Different treatment protocols have been employed, the most frequent involving initial combination therapy with ipilimumab (CTLA4- inhibitor) and nivolumab (PD-1 inhibitor). An observational cohort study analyzed 6 cases of functioning lactotroph tumors treated with ICI and a favorable response was observed in two patients (partial response and stable disease), whereas the other 4 underwent a further increase in prolactin levels and radiological progression of the disease ( 85 ). So far, no markers have been proved to be good predictors for treatment response ( 86 ). Figure 9. 26 yrs-old man complaining of visual disturbance was submitted to a sellar MRI (A): sellar mass with 5 cm in the maximal diameter with supra, infra and left parasellar invasion. Serum PRL levels were above 1000 ng/mL. After one year on cabergoline, 0.5 mg/day, there was no tumor reduction and PRL levels were around 800 ng/mL. He was then submitted to transsphenoidal surgery and radiotherapy in another medical service. Sellar MRI (B) two months after the surgery showed a pituitary mass with 3.1 cm in the maximal diameter. Despite chiasmal decompression, visual dysfunction was not reversed, and during his follow-up, anterior pituitary
