Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, prolactin, hyperprolactinemia, patients, treatment, dopamine, cabergoline, levels, endocrinol, prolactinomas, serum, pregnancy, clin, tumor


two months after the surgery showed a pituitary mass with 3.1 cm in the maximal diameter. Despite chiasmal decompression, visual dysfunction was not reversed, and during his follow-up, anterior pituitary function was lost. PRL levels on cabergoline, 1.5 mg/week, were 250 ng/mL. After two more years, sellar MRI depicted a lesion of 2.9 cm. in the maximal diameter (C). There was a progressive rise of PRL levels despite increased cabergoline doses (0.5 mg/d) and another sellar MRI (D), after two years, depicted a lesion of 3.1 cm in the maximal diameter. Another surgery was indicated. Fertility in Women The efficacy of hyperprolactinemia/prolactinoma´s treatment allows fertility and pregnancy in many women. There are, however, several important considerations that must be recognized by both the physician and patient. It includes tumor growth risk and possible teratogenic sequelae of fetal exposure to dopamine agonists ( 87 ). There is little doubt that patients with pituitary tumors run a small, but significant, risk of expansion of the tumor during pregnancy. It is very difficult, however, to assess the absolute risk. With microadenomas that have not undergone previous surgery or radiotherapy, the incidence seems to be 2.5%. In patients with macroadenomas not operated on or irradiated, the incidence is higher, 18.1% ( 88 , 89 ). However, the risk of complications may be lower in women previously operated on or irradiated. This risk is unrelated to dopamine agonist therapy before pregnancy but may occur when fertility is induced with other drugs, including exogenous gonadotropins and clomiphene, and even when no drug therapy has been employed in patients with pre-existing pituitary adenomas. In practice, the problem of pregnancy is not great, since most women who present with hyperprolactinemia only have microadenomas. To avoid major problems, patients must undergo careful endocrine, neuroradiologic, and neuro-ophthalmologic evaluation before pregnancy. If there is no suprasellar extension, and if the patient harbors only a microadenoma, then the risk of clinically significant swelling of the pituitary is extremely small; it is therefore suggested that the patient be evaluated clinically in every trimester throughout pregnancy, with no routine serum prolactin assessment. If the patient has a macroadenoma and suprasellar extension, transsphenoidal decompression can be considered, mainly for resistant cases. However, in those patients with a good response to DA in terms of prolactin normalization and tumor shrinkage within sellar boundaries, at least one year before pregnancy, the drug can be withdrawn and reintroduced
