Hyperprolactinemia
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, prolactin, hyperprolactinemia, patients, treatment, dopamine, cabergoline, levels, endocrinol, prolactinomas, serum, pregnancy, clin, tumor


with a good response to DA in terms of prolactin normalization and tumor shrinkage within sellar boundaries, at least one year before pregnancy, the drug can be withdrawn and reintroduced if tumor re-growth is observed. If such an approach fails, pituitary surgery or premature delivery, if feasible, could be indicated. Additionally, in case of tumor apoplexy, high-dose dexamethasone may improve clinical symptoms and may reduce the chances of fetal respiratory distress if premature delivery is needed ( 2 , 89 ). Most pregnancies reported in literature were induced by bromocriptine; therefore, for decades this DA was the first choice for women desiring pregnancy. Nevertheless, more pregnancies induced by cabergoline have been described ( 90 ). A meta-analysis showed that the use of both bromocriptine and cabergoline at the time of conception or during pregnancy seems to be safe with no significant impact for the women and their fetuses ( 91 ). Considering that cabergoline is now the first line drug, it has better efficacy and its safe in pregnancy, most of the participants of the recent Pituitary Guideline for prolactinoma did not recommend switching cabergoline to bromocriptine before conception, as this change could result in loss of control of prolactin levels and could negatively affect fertility ( 45 ). Fertility in Men Hyperprolactinemic men exhibit reduced quality of seminal fluid, including the total sperm count, the sperm kinetic index, and sperm nuclear DNA integrity. Cabergoline significantly increased those indexes, mainly after 12 months of treatment ( 92 ). It was shown that clomiphene citrate administration can rise testosterone levels in men, even when serum prolactin levels were elevated. Fertility restoration is an additional advantage of this approach, compared to testosterone replacement ( 93 ). CONCLUSION Dopamine-agonist therapy for hyperprolactinemia leads to a reversal of the hyperprolactinemic hypogonadal state without risk of the development of pituitary insufficiency, thus allowing pregnancy in former infertile patients. Dopamine-agonist therapy is effective not only in patients with microadenomas but also in most patients with large prolactin-secreting tumors in reducing tumor size. Moreover, drug withdrawal after long-term treatment is possible in almost 30% of cases, especially after pregnancy and menopause. Surgery, radiotherapy, and antiblastic drugs, such as temozolomide, should be reserved for resistant/aggressive cases. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS We respectfully acknowledge the invaluable contributions of Dr. Marcello D. Bronstein, a distinguished neuroendocrinologist whose enduring legacy is reflected in his extensive authorship of numerous manuscripts and book chapters, and whose
