Garveyetal.AntimicrobialResistanceandInfectionControl (2019) 8:120
KEYWORDS: influenza, poct, period, virus, patients, influenza virus, used, cases, length, respiratory, stay, length stay, viruses, infection, test


outbreaks lead to in- 18). A PCR POCT (Cepheid, USA; GeneXpert) was in- creased bed occupancy and closed wards during winter stalledonAMUinperiod2andusedtotestanypatients months, with significant financial implications . Pre- with influenza-like illness. In period 1 a laboratory-based vention of influenzavirus transmission within healthcare PCR (Cepheid, USA; GeneXpert) was used to test for in- facilities requires a multipronged approach, including fluenza A, influenza B, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). general precautions such as correct hand hygiene, re- The GeneXpert was used as previously described and spiratory etiquette, patient specific contact/droplet pre- tests for Influenza A/B and RSV . The PCR POCT cautions, vaccination of patients and staff, antiviral was housed within a store room within AMU, easily ac- treatment or chemoprophylaxis and surveillance of cases cessible by all staff on AMU. The staff that used the . Rapid detection and implementation of chemo- POCT were the ward nurses, trained by the in house prophylaxis within hospitals has been identified as one POCT team. The POCT test was validated and quality of the most important interventions to contain an influ- control checked by the POCT team comparing to the in enzavirusoutbreak. houselaboratorybased PCRtest. Influenza virus testing in the UK is based on clinical suspicion and the use of laboratory-based PCR tests [10, 11]. In the UK, laboratory-based PCR turnaround times Outcomes range at 24–48h . One of the mainstays of con- Four outcomes were used to assess the impact of the trolling influenza in healthcare is around timely diagno- POCT: length of stay, drug utilisation (oseltamivir pre- sis . Point of care tests (POCT) can be non- scription), time to isolation after receipt of a positive re- molecular or molecular-based . POCT for influenza sultandhealthcare associatedinfluenzaviruscases. viruses have been previously antigen-based, however lack sensitivity . More recently, rapid molecular tests are available and broadly equivalent to laboratory-based Datacollection PCR . A major benefit of POCT is the rapidity of re- The Infection Prevention and Control team kept a data- . They can also guide infection control measures to 2016 to June 2018. The database was cross referenced optimise patient allocation and bed utilisation within the against PCR data extracted from the Laboratory Infor- viruses and provide an earlier diagnosis of viral respira- AMU to ensure all positive respiratory virus results were tory tract infections . An influenza virus POCT, spe- picked up. Thedatabase was populated from QEHBs Pa- cifically a Cepheid GeneXpert, was
