Garveyetal.AntimicrobialResistanceandInfectionControl (2019) 8:120
KEYWORDS: influenza, poct, period, virus, patients, influenza virus, used, cases, length, respiratory, stay, length stay, viruses, infection, test


to ensure all positive respiratory virus results were tory tract infections . An influenza virus POCT, spe- picked up. Thedatabase was populated from QEHBs Pa- cifically a Cepheid GeneXpert, was used in the acute tient Information and Communication System with: pa- ham (UHB) NHS Foundation Trust, during the 2017/18 prescription. Community-acquired influenza infection influenza season.Afterthe endoftheinfluenza season,a was defined as influenza virus detection by PCR <72h service evaluation was conducted to assess the impact of after admission, for healthcare-associated influenza in- the POCT on patient care and infection control. The re- fection this was defined as influenza virus detection by sults were compared to the previous influenza season PCR≥72h after admission . This standard definition (2016/17),whennoPOCTwasused.Outcomesincluded is based upon the usual in-vivo incubation period for in- rates of healthcare-associated influenza virus, utilisation fluenza being 1–3days and a practical solution to the of oseltamivir, length of stay and achievement of respira- fact that information pertaining to symptom onset was toryisolation. not readilyavailable. Garveyetal.AntimicrobialResistanceandInfectionControl (2019) 8:120 Page3of8 Statisticalanalysis Lengthofstay All admission and discharge dates were retrieved from Patients with confirmed/suspected influenza in periods 1 the electronic admission records system by the hospital and 2 were divided into different groups based on the informatics service. Non–parametric statistical tests clinical coding reason for admission. The categories were used to analyse the effect of the POCT on length were lower respiratory tract infection and influenza, and of stay. Using length of stay as the response variable, pa- influenza alone (Table 1). A Kruskal-Wallis test was tients admitted to QEHB during period 1 (2016/17) and used, to see whether there was evidence of disparity in period 2 (2017/18) were divided into different groups the median length of stay data for the different groups. based on the clinical coding of patients on admission The p <0.001 (p =2.20×10 −16) provided strong evi- (Table 1). The clinical coding of patients admitted to dence that the medians differ. A pairwise comparison QEHB who had confirmed and/or suspected influenza wasperformedamongstthegroups,looking forevidence fell into two categories; lower respiratory tract infection that the medians were disparate. A Mann-Whitney U and influenza, and influenza alone (Table 1). To note all test, with Holm’s correction for multiple comparisons patients presenting with acute respiratory tract infection was used on the groups (Table 2). Patients coded with would have been tested for Influenza infection. A influenza alone in period 1 (2016/17) had a median Kruskal-Wallis test
