Garveyetal.AntimicrobialResistanceandInfectionControl (2019) 8:120
KEYWORDS: influenza, poct, period, virus, patients, influenza virus, used, cases, length, respiratory, stay, length stay, viruses, infection, test


demonstrated a strates that a POCT enables influenza virus cases to be similar result where the rate of healthcare-associated in- identified earlier, thereby allowing for appropriate infec- fection per day was lower after the implementation of a tion control precautions such as isolation and antiviral Fig.3Timetofirstdoseofoseltamivir(days)inallpatientswithconfirmedinfluenzaduringperiod1andperiod2.Note:Thewhitediamonds representthemeandaystillfirstdoseofoseltamivirinperiod1and2.Redcirclesrepresentsallpatientsinperiod1.Bluecirclesrepresentall patientsinperiod2 Garveyetal.AntimicrobialResistanceandInfectionControl (2019) 8:120 Page6of8 influenza could be discharged home more quickly, lowercomparedtoperiod1.Itispossible thatthepreva- thereby prevented delayed diagnosis within the health- lent strain ofinfluenzavirus provokedlesssevere disease care setting and the opportunity for transmission . in period 2 than period 1, which could in part explain SimilarlyinarecentRCTbyBrendishetal.,(2017)com- the results seen. Brendish et al., (2017) demonstrated a paring the use of a POCT vs an in-house laboratory similar finding in patients with exacerbation of airways method, a reduction in length of stay was observed in disease . The authors concluded that reduced hos- patients testing positive for respiratory viruses . pital length of stay was due to earlier discharge in pa- Brendish et al., (2018) also demonstrated rapid turn- tients testing positive for respiratory viruses via a POCT around times using a POCT are associated with higher . The reduction in length of stay reported by Brend- ratesofearlydischargeandearlydiscontinuation ofanti- ishetal.,(2017)wasintheorderof1day,whichequated biotics compared to longer turnaround times in adults to around 200,000 bed days saved, with a cost saving of with acute respiratory illness . Other reasons for the £80 million per year . In the current study, the results observed in the current study could include the reduction in length of stay was in the magnitude of 3 acuity of the strains of influenza virus, which could po- days, with a higher proportion of bed days saved and tentially have been less virulent. Out of the 666 cases of thus the potential for even greater cost savings. Further influenzavirusesreportedinperiod2,408caseswerein- workiswarrantedtoexplore the cost savings. fluenza B, as compared to period 1, where there were In agreement with prior studies, we found that pre- three cases of influenza B. Further work is warranted to scription of oseltamivir increased post-introduction of observe whether a POCT does in fact reduce transmis- an influenza virus POCT (data not shown) [19–21]. sionrates viamore timelyidentification. Oseltamivir treatment is recommended by UK Public The reduction in healthcare-associated influenza virus Health England for all patients hospitalised with influ- cases seen in the current study may result from im- enza . Our study showed a statistically quicker ad- provements in respiratory isolation. The ability for
