Garveyetal.AntimicrobialResistanceandInfectionControl (2019) 8:120
KEYWORDS: influenza, poct, period, virus, patients, influenza virus, used, cases, length, respiratory, stay, length stay, viruses, infection, test


patients hospitalised with influ- cases seen in the current study may result from im- enza . Our study showed a statistically quicker ad- provements in respiratory isolation. The ability for re- ministration of oseltamivir in period 2, when a POCT spiratory isolation in the first five days of admission wasused, ascompared toperiod 1.Increasedoseltamivir when patients are most infectious has been previously prescription may have contributed towards a reduction shown to reduce rates of transmission of healthcare- in healthcare-associated influenza viruses seen at QEHB associated influenza viruses. Time to isolation in period byreducing ongoingtransmission.Brendishetal.,(2017) 2 was significantly quicker compared to period 1 in the showed that a POCT for respiratory viruses leads to an current study; the POCTcould in part explain these re- increased proportion of influenza-positive patients cor- sults.Brendishetal.,(2017)demonstratedsideroomiso- rectly receiving treatment with neuraminidase inhibitors lation forconfirmed respiratoryvirus infection wasmore and suggested a reduced time to administration of the common when a POCT was used . Similarly to our firstdose.Thereismuchdebateontheeffectiveness study, they demonstrated better use of side rooms when of oseltamivir, however the literature details the most ef- the POCT was used; with reduced time from admission fective use is within the first 48h of symptoms . The to isolation in confirmed influenza virus cases . The POCT in our setting certainly helped with quicker ad- authors concluded that rapid and appropriate assign- ministration of oseltamivir. Further work is warranted to mentofsideroomsforpatientswithrespiratoryvirusin- look at the effect of neuraminidase inhibitors on reso- fection is hugely important to reduce the risk of lution of symptoms and the effectiveness within the first nosocomialtransmissiontoother vulnerable hospitalised 48hoftreatment. patients . Similar findings would be true at QEHB Finally unlike Brendish et al., (2017) this study used an where patients with transmissible respiratory viral infec- influenza virus/RSV POCT rather than syndromic mul- tions are isolated (data not shown). When the infection tiple for respiratory viruses . The added value for status is not known, or even considered, patients are not syndromic multiplex molecular POCT above molecular often isolated. Young et al., (2018) demonstrated that Influenza virus testing is currently unknown but there when a POCT was not used to identify patients with in- are potential clinical benefits to the detection of other fluenza they were not isolated as often as than those pa- non-influenza viruses at the POCT including infection tients where a POCT was used to diagnose influenza control and early cessationof stopping unnecessary anti-
