NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: atenolol, liver, injury, liver injury, weeks, acute, drug, induced, acute liver, induced liver, jaundice, serum, rare, elevations, case


rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury). 2 LiverTox Mechanism of Injury The mechanism of drug induced liver injury from atenolol is not known. The agent has little hepatic metabolism and is excreted largely unchanged in the urine. The few cases of acute liver injury attributed to atenolol were likely idiosyncratic. Outcome and Management The severity of liver injury due to atenolol ranges from mild serum aminotransferase elevations to acute hepatitis with jaundice. In large case series of acute liver failure due to medications, atenolol has been listed as a rare cause. Rechallenge has not been reported, but should be avoided. There is little information about cross reactivity among the beta-blockers to hepatic injury. Switching to another beta-blocker after atenolol related acute liver injury should be done with caution and prospective monitoring. References to the safety and potential hepatotoxicity of atenolol are provided in the overview on Beta- Adrenergic Receptor Antagonists, last updated in June 2019. Drug Class: Beta-Adrenergic Receptor Antagonists CASE REPORT Case 1. Acute liver injury and jaundice from atenolol. [Modified from a case in the database of the Drug-Induced Liver Injury Network] A 44 year old man with hypertension was treated with atenolol and 4 weeks later developed nausea, vomiting, light colored stools and weight loss. He was subsequently hospitalized when found to be jaundiced. He admitted to drinking two or three beers per day, but had no history of alcohol problems, liver disease or risk factors for viral hepatitis. Other medications were limited to various vitamins and herbal preparations including coenzyme Q10, omega-3 fatty acids, a vitamin B complex and glucosamine/condroitin which he had taken for several years. On presentation, he had a low grade fever and jaundice, but no rash or peripheral manifestations of chronic liver disease. Serum aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase levels were both elevated and total serum bilirubin was 5.4 mg/dL (Table). He tested negative for hepatitis A, B, C and E virus infection and autoantibody reactivity. An abdominal ultrasound was unremarkable. A liver biopsy showed multiple epithelioid granulomas and acute hepatic injury with prominence of eosinophils in portal areas, suggestive of a drug reaction. Atenolol was discontinued and he began to improve within a week. When seen in follow up one and 3 months after initial presentation, all liver tests were normal. Key Points Medication: Atenolol (25 mg daily) Pattern: Hepatocellular (R=7.5) Severity: 3+ (jaundice, hospitalization) Latency: 4 weeks to onset of
