Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, pulmonary, patients, treatment, pulmonary disease, regimen, recommendation, ntm, mac, therapy, suggest, macrolide, conditional, effect, low


C., R. J. W. are cochairs of this guideline committee. fection) caused by the most common NTM pathogens com- (). prising Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), Mycobacterium © The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press for the Infectious Diseases Society NTM and Mycobacterium abscessus among the rapidly DOI: growing NTM. Twenty-two PICO (Population, Intervention, Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • 905 Table 1. Interpretation of Strong and Conditional (Weak) Recommendations Recommendations Strong Conditional Patients • Most individuals in this situation would want the recommended • The majority of individuals in this situation would want the suggested course of action, and only a small proportion would not. course of action, but many would not. Clinicians • Most individuals should receive the intervention. • Recognize that different choices will be appropriate for individual • Adherence to the recommendation according to the guideline patients and that you must help each patient arrive at a management could be used as a quality criterion or performance indicator. decision consistent with his or her values and preferences. Decision aids may be useful in helping individuals to make decisions consistent • Formal decision aids are not likely to be needed to help individuals with their values and preferences. make decisions consistent with their values and preferences. Policy makers • The recommendation can be adopted as policy in • Policy making will require substantial debate and involvement of var- most situations. ious stakeholders. Source: Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation Working Group . Comparators, Outcomes) questions and associated recom- DIAGNOSTIC CRITERIA FOR NTM PULMONARY DISEASE mendations are included in the Guideline. A panel of experts was carefully selected and screened for conflicts of interest and microbiologic criteria for diagnosing NTM pulmonary di- included specialists in pulmonary medicine, infectious dis- sease . The current guideline also recommends use of these criteria to classify patients as having NTM pulmonary tient advocacy. The recommendations were developed based disease (Table 2). The significance of NTM isolated from on the evidence that was appraised using GRADE (Grading of the sputum of individuals who meet the clinical and radio- Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) graphic criteria in Table 2 must be interpreted in the context of the number of positive cultures and specific species iso- and are summarized below . Recommendations were ei- lated. Because NTM can be isolated from respiratory spe- ther “strong” or “conditional” (Table 1), and
