Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, pulmonary, patients, treatment, pulmonary disease, regimen, recommendation, ntm, mac, therapy, suggest, macrolide, conditional, effect, low


a clarithromycin-based regimen be used? Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • 907 Recommendation Drug Administration for treatment of refractory MAC pul- monary disease. As noted in question 5, we suggest that par- 1. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary di- enteral amikacin or streptomycin be included in the initial sease we suggest azithromycin-based treatment regimens treatment regimen in patients with cavitary or advanced/severe rather than clarithromycin-based regimens (conditional rec- bronchiectatic or macrolide-resistant MAC pulmonary disease. ommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Vii: In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, should a 3-drug or a 2-drug macrolide-containing reg- Remarks: The panel felt that azithromycin was preferred imen be used for treatment? over clarithromycin because of better tolerance, less drug- interactions, lower pill burden, single daily dosing, and equal Recommendation efficacy. However, when azithromycin is not available or not tol- 1. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary di- erated, clarithromycin is an acceptable alternative. sease, we suggest a treatment regimen with at least 3 drugs V: Should patients with MAC pulmonary disease be treated with a (including a macrolide and ethambutol) over a regimen with parenteral amikacin or streptomycin-containing regimen or without 2 drugs (a macrolide and ethambutol alone) (conditional rec- a parenteral amikacin or streptomycin-containing regimen? ommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Recommendation Remarks: A priority in MAC pulmonary disease therapy is preventing the development of macrolide resistance. The panel 1. For patients with cavitary or advanced/severe bronchiectatic members were concerned that the currently available data or macrolide-resistant MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest were insufficient to determine the risk of acquired macrolide that parenteral amikacin or streptomycin be included in the resistance with a 2-drug regimen and therefore suggest a 3 drug initial treatment regimen (conditional recommendation, macrolide-containing regimen. moderate certainty in estimates of effect). Viii: In patients with macrolide susceptible MAC pulmonary Remarks: In the absence of comparably effective oral disease, should a daily or a 3-times weekly macrolide-based reg- medications there are few options other than parenteral imen be used for treatment? aminoglycosides for “intensifying” standard oral MAC therapy. Recommendations The committee thought that the benefits outweighed risks in those patients with cavitary or advanced/severe bronchiectatic 1. In patients with noncavitary nodular/bronchiectatic or macrolide-resistant MAC pulmonary disease and that ad- macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest ministration of at least 2–3 months of an aminoglycoside was a 3 times per week
