Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, pulmonary, patients, treatment, pulmonary disease, regimen, recommendation, ntm, mac, therapy, suggest, macrolide, conditional, effect, low


nodular/bronchiectatic or macrolide-resistant MAC pulmonary disease and that ad- macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest ministration of at least 2–3 months of an aminoglycoside was a 3 times per week macrolide-based regimen rather than a the best balance between risks and benefits. daily macrolide-based regimen (conditional recommenda- Vi: In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary tion, very low certainty in estimates of effect). disease, should a regimen with inhaled amikacin or a regimen 2. In patients with cavitary or severe/advanced nondular without inhaled amikacin be used for treatment? bronchiectatic macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease we suggest a daily macrolide-based regimen Recommendations rather than 3 times per week macrolide-based regimen 1. In patients with newly diagnosed MAC pulmonary disease, (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in esti- we suggest neither inhaled amikacin (parenteral formula- mates of effect). tion) nor amikacin liposome inhalation suspension (ALIS) Remarks: Intermittent therapy has similar sputum conversion be used as part of the initial treatment regimen (conditional rates as daily therapy for nodular/bronchiectatic MAC pulmo- recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). nary disease and is also better tolerated than daily therapy [22, 2. In patients with MAC pulmonary disease who have failed 23]. A critically important finding from the available studies is therapy after at least 6 months of guideline-based therapy, the lack of development of macrolide resistance with intermit- we recommend addition of ALIS to the treatment regimen tent therapy. There is not similar evidence to justify or support rather than a standard oral regimen, only (strong recommen- intermittent therapy for cavitary MAC pulmonary disease and dation, moderate certainty in estimates of effect). it is not recommended. Remarks: Randomized controlled trials have demonstrated iX: In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary di- the efficacy and safety of ALIS when added to guideline-based sease, should patients be treated with <12 months of treatment therapy for treatment refractory MAC pulmonary disease [19, after culture negativity or ≥12 months of treatment after culture 20]. ALIS is currently approved by the United States Federal negativity? 908 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al Recommendation risk of adverse effects associated with parenteral amikacin or streptomycin, the committee felt strongly that the use of these 1. We suggest that patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC parenteral agents is not warranted, unless it is impossible to use pulmonary disease receive treatment for at least 12 months a rifampicin-based regimen or severe disease is present. after
