Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, pulmonary, patients, treatment, pulmonary disease, regimen, recommendation, ntm, mac, therapy, suggest, macrolide, conditional, effect, low


MAC parenteral agents is not warranted, unless it is impossible to use pulmonary disease receive treatment for at least 12 months a rifampicin-based regimen or severe disease is present. after culture conversion (conditional recommendation, very Xii: In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmo- low certainty in estimates of effect). nary disease, should a treatment regimen that includes a fluor- oquinolone or a regimen without a fluoroquinolone be used? Remarks: The optimal duration of therapy for pulmonary MAC disease is not currently known. The panel felt that in the ab- Recommendations sence of evidence identifying an optimal treatment duration that the recommendation from the 2007 Guideline should be 1. In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pul- followed . monary disease, we suggest using a regimen of rifampicin, ethambutol, and either isoniazid or macrolide instead of a Mycobacterium kansasii (Questions X–XIV) fluoroquinolone (conditional recommendation, very low X: In patients with rifampcin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmo- certainty in estimates of effect). nary disease, should an isoniazid-containing regimen or a 2. In patients with rifampicin-resistant M. kansasii or intoler- macrolide-containing regimen be used for treatment? ance to one of the first-line antibiotics we suggest a fluoro- quinolone (eg, moxifloxacin) be used as part of a second-line Recommendation regimen (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). 1. In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmo- nary disease, we suggest a regimen of rifampicin, ethambutol, Remarks: Treatment success of M. kansasii pulmonary disease and either isoniazid or macrolide (conditional recommenda- with a rifamycin-based drug regimen is usually excellent but the tion, very low certainty in estimates of effect). optimal choice of companion drugs is not clear. While etham- butol is usually the preferred companion drug, the choice of an Remarks: Isoniazid is widely used at present for treatment of additional companion drug may be isoniazid, a macrolide or M. kansasii pulmonary disease, and in the experience of the panel a fluoroquinolone. As there is more experience and better evi- members, there have been good outcomes when using a regimen dence for treatment regimens that include isoniazid or a mac- consisting of rifampicin, ethambutol, and isoniazid irrespective rolide as a companion drug, these drugs are preferred [25–28]. of the result of minimal inhibitory concentrations (MICs) for For rifampicin-resistant disease, a regimen such as ethambutol, isoniazid and ethambutol . Based on the in vitro activity of azithromycin, and a fluoroquinolone would be likely to lead to macrolides against
