Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, pulmonary, patients, treatment, pulmonary disease, regimen, recommendation, ntm, mac, therapy, suggest, macrolide, conditional, effect, low


3 drugs: rifampicin, eth- until more evidence was available. Similarly, there are no data to ambutol, and either a macrolide and/or a fluoroquinolone support the use of isoniazid on a 3 times weekly basis in patients (eg, moxifloxacin) (conditional recommendation, very low with M. kansasii pulmonary disease. certainty in estimates of effect). XiV: In patients with rifampicin susceptible M. kansasii pulmo- nary disease, should treatment be continued for <12 months or Remarks: Given the high mortality associated with M. xenopi ≥12 months? disease, the panel members felt the large risk of treatment failure with a 2-drug regimen warranted at least a 3-drug treatment reg- Recommendation imen. However, the absence of universal access to moxifloxacin and the small amount of data for other fluoroquinolones has to 1. We suggest that patients with rifampin susceptible M. kansasii be considered when choosing a regimen. pulmonary disease be treated for at least 12 months (condi- XVii: In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, should tional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of parenteral amikacin or streptomycin be included in the treat- effect). ment regimen? Remarks: Current rifampicin-based treatment regimens 1. In patients with cavitary or advanced/severe bronchiectatic are associated with a high rate of success if used for at least M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest adding parenteral 12 months . Randomized controlled trials comparing amikacin to the treatment regimen and obtaining expert con- shorter treatment regimens are currently lacking. Although sultation (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in some experts would favor 12 months of treatment after cul- estimates of effect). ture conversion, there is no evidence that relapses could be prevented with treatment courses longer than 12 months. Remarks: Barring compelling evidence to the contrary, Therefore, the panel members felt that M. kansasii could be M. xenopi patients should be treated aggressively given the treated for a fixed duration of 12 months instead of 12 months high mortality of the disease [34–36]. In addition to the high beyond culture conversion. Because sputum conversion at mortality, the committee considered the general acceptability 4 months of rifampicin-based regimens is usually observed and feasibility of parenteral therapy, and potential costs and to convert to negative by that time. XViii: In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, should treatment be continued for <12 months or ≥12 months after Mycobacterium xenopi (Questions XV–XVIII) culture conversion? XV: In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, should a treatment regimen that
