Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, pulmonary, patients, treatment, pulmonary disease, regimen, recommendation, ntm, mac, therapy, suggest, macrolide, conditional, effect, low


should treatment be continued for <12 months or ≥12 months after Mycobacterium xenopi (Questions XV–XVIII) culture conversion? XV: In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, should a treatment regimen that includes a fluoroquinolone or a regimen 1. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest without a fluoroquinolone be used? that treatment be continued for at least 12 months beyond culture conversion (conditional recommendation, very low Recommendation certainty in estimates of effect). 1. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we sug- Remarks: Data suggest that treatment outcomes improve if gest using a multidrug treatment regimen that includes the duration of treatment increases . The panel felt that moxifloxacin or macrolide (conditional recommendation, this outweighs the risk of adverse events associated with longer low certainty in estimates of effect). treatment and agrees with previous recommendations . Remarks: There is in vitro evidence that macrolides and Mycobacterium abscessus (Questions XIX–XXI) fluoroquinolones are active against M. xenopi, whereas ri- XiX: In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, should a fampicin and ethambutol are inactive in vitro alone and in macrolide-based regimen or a regimen without a macrolide be combinations . Preliminary data from a study in France used for treatment? that randomized patients to receive either moxifloxacin or clarithromycin plus ethambutol and rifampicin reported no Recommendations difference in the treatment success between the study arms . XVi: In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, should a 2-, 1. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease caused by strains 3-, or 4-drug regimen be used for treatment? without inducible or mutational resistance, we recommend a 910 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al macrolide-containing multidrug treatment regimen (strong rec- consensus on the optimum duration of therapy. In addition, ommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). the panel members felt that some subgroups of patients should 2. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease caused by be considered separately in determining the length of therapy strains with inducible or mutational macrolide resistance, we such as: patients with nodular/bronchiectatic versus cavitary suggest a macrolide-containing regimen if the drug is being disease, patients affected by lung disease caused by different used for its immunomodulatory properties although the M. abscessus subspecies and importantly, depending on suscep- macrolide is not counted as an active drug in the multidrug tibility to macrolides and amikacin. The panel members suggest regimen (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in
