Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, pulmonary, patients, treatment, pulmonary disease, regimen, recommendation, ntm, mac, therapy, suggest, macrolide, conditional, effect, low


depending on suscep- macrolide is not counted as an active drug in the multidrug tibility to macrolides and amikacin. The panel members suggest regimen (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in that an expert in the management of patients with M. abscessus estimates of effect). pulmonary disease be consulted. Remarks: M. abscessus infections can be life-threatening, and Surgical Resection (Question XXII) the use of macrolides is potentially of great benefit. Macrolides XXii: Should surgery plus medical therapy or medical therapy are very active in vitro against M. abscessus strains without alone be used to treat NTM pulmonary disease? a functional erm(41) gene, and evidence supports use of Recommendation macrolides in patients with disease caused by macrolide- susceptible M. abscessus . It is important to perform in 1. In selected patients with NTM pulmonary disease, we sug- vitro macrolide susceptibility testing including detection of a gest surgical resection as an adjuvant to medical therapy after functional or nonfunctional erm(41) gene [40–42]. expert consultation (conditional recommendation, very low XX: In patients with M. abscessus complex pulmonary disease, certainty in estimates of effect). how many antibiotics should be included within multidrug regimens? Remarks: Selected patients with failure of medical manage- Recommendation ment, cavitary disease, drug resistant isolates, or compli- cations such as hemoptysis or severe bronchiectasis may undergo surgical resection of the diseased lung. The decision 1. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, we sug- to proceed with surgical resection must be weighed against gest a multidrug regimen that includes at least 3 active drugs the risks and benefits of surgery. The panel suggests that sur- (guided by in vitro susceptibility) in the initial phase of treat- gery be performed by a surgeon experienced in mycobacterial ment (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in es- surgery . timates of effect). Supplementary Data Remarks: Given the usual disease severity of M. abscessus pul- Supplementary materials are available at Clinical Infectious Diseases online. monary disease, the variable and limited in vitro drug suscep- Consisting of data provided by the authors to benefit the reader, the posted tibility of these organisms, the potential for the emergence of materials are not copyedited and are the sole responsibility of the authors, so drug resistance, and the potential for more rapid progression questions or comments should be addressed to the corresponding author. of M. abscessus pulmonary disease, the panel members suggest Notes panel members felt strongly that treatment regimens should
