Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, pulmonary, patients, treatment, pulmonary disease, regimen, recommendation, ntm, mac, therapy, suggest, macrolide, conditional, effect, low


rapid progression questions or comments should be addressed to the corresponding author. of M. abscessus pulmonary disease, the panel members suggest Notes panel members felt strongly that treatment regimens should be and the staff from each Society for their guidance during the development of the guideline, and the reviewers for their critical comments which im- designed in collaboration with experts in the management of proved the focus and clarity of the Guideline. these complicated infections. Dedication. This Guideline is dedicated to the memory of Won-Jung to support recommendations in this Guideline. His tireless effort to improve shorter or longer duration therapy be used for treatment? the diagnosis and treatement of NTM disease will never be forgotten. Potential conflicts of interest. C. L. D. served on advisory committees Recommendation for Cipla, Horizon, Insmed, Johnson & Johnson, Matinas Biopharma, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Paratek, and Spero; received research support from Beyond Air, Insmed, and Spero; served as a consultant for 1. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, we suggest Meiji. C. L. served as a speaker for Berlin Chemie, Chiesi, Gilead, Janssen, that either a shorter or longer treatment regimen be used and Lucane, and Novartis; served on an advisory committee for Oxford Immunotec. R. J. W. served as the director of a university clinical labo- expert consultation obtained (conditional recommendation ratory that does NTM identification, molecular strain comparison, and for either the intervention or the comparison, very low cer- susceptibility testing; received research support from Insmed as mycobac- tainty in estimates of effect). terial reference laboratory for a trial of the inhaled liposomal amikacin. C. A. received research support from Insmed. E. C. B. served as a con- sultant for AID Diagnostika, Becton Dickinson, and COPAN; provided Remarks: The lack of studies, the variation in drug availability, expert testimony for Shuttleworth & Ingersoll law firm. D. E. G. served on resources, and practice settings made it difficult to come to a an advisory committee, as a consultant, as a speaker and received research Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • 911 support from Insmed; served as a consultant for Johnson & Johnson, 15. CLSI. Performance standards for susceptibility testing of mycobacteia, Nocardia ysis of macrolide resistance in Mycobacterium avium complex lung disease. Am J BeyondAir, Aradigm, Spero Therapeutics, Johnson & Johnson, Hill- Respir Crit Care Med 2006; 174:928–34. Rom, International Biophysics, Electromed, RespirTech, Maxor Specialty Pharmacy, PantherX, and
