Chapter
KEYWORDS: programs, community, health, year, program, nutrition, children, child, cid, chnps, workers, example, resources, coverage, percent


Community Health and Nutrition Programs John B. Mason, David Sanders, Philip Musgrove, Soekirman, and Rae Galloway Rapid improvements in health and nutrition in developing their health and nutrition and to facilitate access to treatment nutrition-related interventions and to changes in the underly- others in the household should participate.Commonly,people is concerned with the contribution of specific interventions, ple,for growth monitoring and promotion—or are visited at Consideration ofthe environment as the context for interven- the community or operating from a nearby health facility—are tions is crucial in determining their initiation and in modifying indispensable features of these programs. Thus community this effect. nutrition programs (CHNPs). Undoubtedly much change has stemmed from scientific This chapter focuses on large-scale (national or state) pro- advances,immunization being a prominent case.However,the grams. Although these programs are primarily initiated and equally critical. In the past several decades, people’s contact between are necessary.Both horizontal and vertical organiza- with trained workers has been instrumental in improving tions are needed.Local organizations make action happen,but to poor people in poor countries but is relevant everywhere; and supplies,from more central levels. indeed,it is a reason that social services have essentially elimi- The experience on which this chapter is based comes from a nated almost all occurrences of child malnutrition in Europe considerable number of national and large-scale programs. Community-based programs under many circumstances reproductive-age women and children.We draw on these expe- provide this crucial contact.Their role is partly in improving riences as we try to put forward principles on which future pro- fostering behavior change and, more generally, in supporting objectives for other population groups and diseases. caring practices (Engle, Bentley, and Pelto 2000; UNICEF As of 2001,some 19 percent of global deaths were among 1990).Such programs may also play a part in mobilizing social children—and 99 percent of all child deaths took place in demand for services and in generating pressure for policy low- and middle-income countries.The disability-adjusted life change. years (DALYs) lost attributed to zero- to four-year-olds—plus In community-based programs,workers—often volunteers maternal and perinatal conditions,nutrition deficiencies,and and part-time workers—interact with households to protect endocrine disorders—amount to 42 percent ofthe total disease Table 56.1 Estimated Contributions to the Disease Burden in context, how much was programmatic, and what were the Developing Countries interactions. The contrasts between these three countries are instructive in part because they have several similar contextual DALYs lost (percentage) factors;for instance,the status ofwomen is relatively good,and Factor Direct effect
