Chapter
KEYWORDS: programs, community, health, year, program, nutrition, children, child, cid, chnps, workers, example, resources, coverage, percent


interactions. The contrasts between these three countries are instructive in part because they have several similar contextual DALYs lost (percentage) factors;for instance,the status ofwomen is relatively good,and Factor Direct effect As risk factor Total social exclusion1is not extensive (compare both ofthese in,for General malnutrition 1.0 14.0 15.0 example,South Asia).Thus programs may account for a signif- icant part ofthe differences seen in improvement. Micronutrient deficiencies 9.0 8.5 17.5 The benefits from CHNPs extend well beyond child nutri- Total 10.0 22.5 32.5 tion (which is used as a summary measure). These benefits Source:Mason, Musgrove, and Habicht 2003, table 10. have not been quantified but would include improved educa- bility (see chapter 49) and probably increased earning capacity burden (all ages, both sexes) from all causes for developing associated with it and with physical fitness. regions.CHNPs address about 40 percent of the disease bur- den. In terms of prevention, Mason, Musgrove, and Habicht (2003) estimated that eliminating malnutrition would remove WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT EFFICACY one-third ofthe global disease burden.Comparative studies by ANDEFFECTIVENESS Ezzati,Lopez,and others (2002) and Ezzati,Vander Hoorn,and others (2003) have reemphasized malnutrition as the predom- Theefficacyof healthandnutritioninterventionsindevelop- inant risk factor and improvement of nutrition as playing ing countries has been established for decades (for example, deficiencies contribute directly to malnutrition,but even more, eralsettingsshowedthathealthinterventionswithorwithout malnutrition is a risk factor for infectious diseases (table 56.1). supplementary foods caused children to thrive and survive Furthermore,changes in child malnutrition levels in develop- better:studiesinNarangwal,India(Kielmannandothers1978; trends (Pelletier and Frongillo 2003). Nutrition for Central America and Panama (Delgado and Dealing with women and children’s health and nutrition others1982);inJamaica(Waterlow1992);andinTheGambia Moreover,theexperienceofcommunity-basedprogramslinked studiesshowedtheeffectofinterventionsongrowthand(usu- tonutritionconstitutesasignificantpartofthebodyofknowl- ally)mortalitybutdidnotgenerallyfactorouttherelativecon- Chopra (2004),use a mix of improved access to facilities and care;resultsfromTheGambiaindicatedinteractionsuchthat community health workers. These interventions include the sick children did not grow even with adequate food intake munityhealthprojectsinBrazil(Ceará,Pelotas);andthework not grow with inadequate food intake (Gillespie and Mason of the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee (BRAC). 1991,annex2). Table56.2describestheprogramexperiencesdrawnon. By the early 1980s, the conclusion, based on data at the The evidence is clear that significant differences occur experimental level (not from routine large-scale programs), between countries in the rates of change in health and nutri- was that better health and better nutrition are both required for tional status.Figure 56.1 shows a comparison ofIndonesia,the child survival and development.This conclusion remains gen- underweight children,which is likely to reflect broader condi- interventions may become less effective unless nutrition is con- tions ofhealth and survival.For Thailand,the figure shows the currently addressed
