Chapter
KEYWORDS: programs, community, health, year, program, nutrition, children, child, cid, chnps, workers, example, resources, coverage, percent


conclusion remains gen- underweight children,which is likely to reflect broader condi- interventions may become less effective unless nutrition is con- tions ofhealth and survival.For Thailand,the figure shows the currently addressed (Measham and Chatterjee 1999; Pelletier now-well-known rapid improvement in the 1980s and 1990s. and Frongillo 2003). In their chapter on malnutrition in the For Indonesia, it shows slower but consistent improvement. first edition of this book, Pinstrup-Andersen and colleagues The Philippines had little progress until recently,and the start (1993) drew largely on efficacy findings,with an emphasis on ofan improving trend coincided with increases in the number food supplementation.Those studies are not revisited here,but ofvillage health workers and implementation ofhigh-coverage we can continue to build on their conclusions. interventions such as iodized salt and vitamin A supplementa- Theefficacystudieswerefollowedbyanumberofnational tion .A crucial issue is how much ofthe improve- or other large-scale programs in several countries. Some of ments was caused by interventions that could be replicated— those were a direct follow-on; for example, the World Bank and within that issue is subsumed how much was because of TamilNaduIntegratedNutritionProgram(TINP)followedthe 1054 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | John B. Mason, David Sanders, Philip Musgrove, and others Table 56.2 Country Experiences in Community-Based Programs Country and program Program experience Africa Tanzania: Iringa Area program with UNICEF and WHO inputs, 1984–91. After rapid initial drop in child malnutrition, moderate steady improvement. Program not sustained. Tanzania: Child Survival and 1985–95, World Bank support. Results similar to Iringa. Development Program Zimbabwe: Supplementary Wide-scaleprogramfollowingindependence,1980–90;infantmortalityrate(IMR)droppedfrom110to53(1988).Notsustained. Feeding Programme Asia Bangladesh: Bangladesh BINP: area targeted covering 7 percent of population. Rapid improvement at start (1997); final evaluation not seen. Integrated Nutrition Program National: program coverage expanding from 2000 on. Substantial improvement in anemia and child underweight seen in and national Bangladesh starting 1995. Bangladesh: Bangladesh Rural Community-based health services with village health workers. Wide coverage since 1980s; particular focus on diarrhea. Advancement Committee India: Integrated Child Implemented since 1976. Village program with community health (anganwadi) worker. Accelerated improvement reported in Development Services some states. India: Tamil Nadu Integrated Implemented 1980 to mid 1990s. Village program in Tamil Nadu with World Bank support; growth monitoring, supplementary Nutrition Program feeding, and so on. Substantial improvement in underweight reported. Indonesia Massive expansion of village programs 1975–90, covering all villages by 1990. Steady decrease in underweight during this time. Program not sustained in 1990s; now planned to restart. Philippines: national No wide CHNPs despite
