Chapter
KEYWORDS: programs, community, health, year, program, nutrition, children, child, cid, chnps, workers, example, resources, coverage, percent


area production of weaning foods; sometimes of poverty and where undernutrition is common.(An excep- marketing inexpensive food;facilitating mother’s time allo- tion occurs if CHNPs help prevent intrauterine growth cation; and promoting technology—storage, preservation, retardation with later risks of noncommunicable diseases.) hygiene methods (fermentation,even refrigerators). However, in areas where diet-related chronic diseases are • Growth monitoring and promotion requires equipment developing in conditions of poverty (for example, much of (scales, charts, manuals); training and supervision; needs Latin America and the Caribbean) and obesity is rising rapidly, training ofweigher to interpret charts and counsel mother; the promotion of behavior change through counseling in and a referral system for problems (for treatment,counsel- CHNPs may become increasingly important. Promoting ing,or other preventive intervention ifgrowth is faltering). healthier diets requires access to outlets for fruit and vegetables, Weighing at birth and monthly weighing should be often displaced by fast foods, which should be a concern of included,ifpossible,and adequate weight gain (rather than community activities,as should lifestyle improvements such as achieved weight or any gain) should be used for guidance on use ofexercise and recreational facilities. counseling or other intervention. CHNPs often include activities well beyond direct preven- • Micronutrient supplementation should include vitamin A care, water, sanitation, and other aspects of environmental preferably as part ofmultinutrients);for women within one tions (for example,Zimbabwe in the 1980s).In Thailand,the breast milk);for infants and children (massive dose at nine village programs are part of the “Basic Minimum Needs” months immunization contact and thereafter every six approach, which includes housing and environment, family months and when medically indicated). It should also 1058 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | John B. Mason, David Sanders, Philip Musgrove, and others Services education, agriculture, and so forth Facilitators Interface 1:10–20 mobilizers Community Supervision, training, Plan, implement, monitor, … information, support 1:10–20 Mobilizers families Families Counseling, organization, supplies, and referral for prenatal care, child care practices, growth monitoring, micronutrients … Source: Adapted from Tontisirin (1996, personal communication). NGO = nongovernmental organization Figure 56.3 General Structure for Community-Based Programs, Based on Thailand’s Program include vitamin A—daily or weekly, with immunization • Oral rehydrationincludes highly effective local preparations campaigns, and so forth—and iron—daily or weekly for for dehydration in acute diarrhea,as well as (or better than) women (especially during pregnancy) as well as for children oral rehydration salts.These preparations require counsel- and adolescents.Iron is usually provided together with folic ing of mothers and take a
