Chapter
KEYWORDS: programs, community, health, year, program, nutrition, children, child, cid, chnps, workers, example, resources, coverage, percent


than) women (especially during pregnancy) as well as for children oral rehydration salts.These preparations require counsel- and adolescents.Iron is usually provided together with folic ing of mothers and take a lot of parents’ time. Persistent acid and may also be provided as part ofmultiple micronu- diarrhea requires other intervention,especially nutritional. trient supplementation.Iodine is usually provided by forti- Care of children during sickness—especially continued fication and can be an infrequent (six-monthly) oral sup- breastfeeding and other foods—needs to be stressed plement, if necessary, but it should be part of multiple (applies also to other illnesses). micronutrients for pregnancy. • Immunizationincludesinforming,referring,andfacilitating. • Micronutrient fortification is not usually included locally, • Dewormingrequires distribution and dosage supervision of although it is an important central program,but local mon- mebendazole every few months,a highly effective nutrition itoring is a coming opportunity, especially of iodized salt intervention.Distribution methods are an issue. testing kits. • Supplementary feeding, using external supplies may some- The relative suitability of community- and facility-based times be appropriate in emergencies and in conditions of operations for the different components again depends on extreme poverty (for example, the Bangladesh Integrated local conditions,and these operations should be complemen- Nutrition Program, or BINP), providing 200 to 500 kilo- tary. Community activities are essential for infant and child calories per person per day,but otherwise it is to be avoided feeding,other caring practices,environmental sanitation,and as costly,with high opportunity cost,and not very effective; the like. Facilities have a key role in immunization, prenatal moreover,it can distort programs,which come to be seen care,and—ofcourse—referral for treatment.Growth monitor- largely as a source offree food. ing,micronutrient interventions,oral rehydration,and similar • Supplementary feeding,using local suppliescan be useful for activities may be focused in either.Because it has more regular complementary feeding (weaning) if carefully organized contact with clients, a community-based program may be (which requires some resources). Village community pro- more effective in actually reaching mothers and children with duction and processing are useful,if feasible (for example, the component interventions than one that is facility based. in Zimbabwe),and the system can move to coupon method Box 56.1 compares two programs in Honduras that offered the (for example,in Thailand). same content but differed in where the programs were based. Community Health and Nutrition Programs | 1059 Box 56.1 Differential Effectiveness of Community- and Facility-Based Programs Effectiveness is more likely to be possible through age participating in the community-based program were community-based programs because contact with care- 1.6
