Chapter
KEYWORDS: programs, community, health, year, program, nutrition, children, child, cid, chnps, workers, example, resources, coverage, percent


56.1 Differential Effectiveness of Community- and Facility-Based Programs Effectiveness is more likely to be possible through age participating in the community-based program were community-based programs because contact with care- 1.6 times more likely to be appropriately fed than were givers is typically more frequent and consistent. For ex- children not enrolled in growth monitoring and promo- ample, 83 percent of children enrolled in a community- tion. Children participating in the community program based growth monitoring and promotion program in alsoweremorelikelytohavereceivedvitaminAandiron Honduras (Atención Integral a la Niñez Comunitaria,or supplements than children participating in the facility- AIN-C) were weighed two or more times in a given based program. Results show that consistent participa- three-monthperiod,whereasonly70percentof children tion in the community-based program was associated wereweighedwiththesamefrequencyinafacility-based withbetterweightforage.Whenarangeofmaternaland program.Workers visited 30 percent of mothers partici- socioeconomic factors were taken into account, children patinginthecommunityprogramintheirhomesatleast participating fully in the community program were once for follow-up when their children were sick, were 435 grams heavier than children who were enrolled but not growing, or had missed a weighing session. participated infrequently. In the facility-based program, Controlling for a range of maternal and socioeconomic therewaslittledifferenceinweightforchildrenbasedon factors,researchersfoundthatchildren6to24monthsof levels of participation. Source:Plowman and others 2002. PROGRAMMATIC FACTORS the programs (a form oftargeting),based on nutritional status, as in growth monitoring and promotion,as well as on a one- Programmatic factors are considered first in terms ofthe char- time basis (for example, thin children in Zimbabwe). Recent acteristics ofthe activities—their population coverage and tar- thinking suggests that because mortality risk, growth failure, geting, how much resources are applied per head (intensity), and morbidity are concentrated in children less than two or and the technologies used. Then the needs for initiating and three years of age, in contrast to an earlier focus on children sustaining these activities are discussed—the training needs, under five, these younger children should increasingly be a supervision methods,and (importantly) incentives and remu- focus ofCHNPs.A common policy observed in practice,there- neration for field workers. fore,is to aim for complete coverage within the areas partici- pating, adding new sites until the entire region is covered. Coverage, Targeting, Resource Intensity, and Technology Relatively untargeted expansion to universal coverage may have Even effective programs improve the health and nutrition only been at the expense of establishing adequate resources and of those they reach, so achieving as complete coverage as quality in the areas initially covered. In at least one case possible of those at risk is
