Chapter
KEYWORDS: programs, community, health, year, program, nutrition, children, child, cid, chnps, workers, example, resources, coverage, percent


adequate resources and of those they reach, so achieving as complete coverage as quality in the areas initially covered. In at least one case possible of those at risk is a major determinant of the effect. (Thailand),having achieved broad coverage and reduced mal- Although variations in the content of programs are seen in nutrition,the program became more targeted to areas in which different circumstances, most activities are common to most progress was lagging. The coverage figures in table 56.3, programs.Variations in effect stem from factors such as cover- although approximate, demonstrate considerable success in age and adequacy of resources. How have CHNPs fared in initiating and implementing CHNPs on a large scale—usually reaching large sections of the population with adequate enough to have a substantial effect if the other factors needed resources—and,indeed,what is the gap that would need to be for success were met. filled? The achievements ofthe 14 programs drawn on here as How complete a coverage ofthe population should one rec- case studies are summarized in table 56.3. ommend? This factor relates to targeting, to the additional The programs expanded to include most of the communi- resource requirements to reach the nonparticipants, and to ties within the areas targeted. The common evolution was to their level ofrisk.Usually risk is spread throughout the popu- target select areas and specific biological groups within those lation, although the extent varies considerably—at least a areas—generallywomenandchildren—butnottogivepriority doubling of indicators of risk is usually seen between better- to any great extent to poorer or less healthy communities. and worse-off areas or groups (for example, see Mason and Screening is sometimes done ofindividuals for admittance into others 2001,figures 1.4–1.7,1.10–1.13).The remoter areas—or 1060 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | John B. Mason, David Sanders, Philip Musgrove, and others Table 56.3 Characteristics of Selected Programs Country Coverage, targeting Resources, intensity Africa Tanzania: Iringa Population served (cid:3)250,000 in 6 districts, 610 US$8 to US$17/child/year (approximately US$30/child/year from total costs: F: ((cid:2)) villages, 46,000 children, of which 33,700 par- approximately US$6 million) years and women; no socioeconomic selection [Volunteers] of communities. Progressed from 168 to 610 villages 1984–88. Tanzania: Child Survival 9 of 20 regions (population total approximately US$2 to US$3/child/year and Development Program 12 million; 2 million children). Aimed for com- [Volunteers] F: 0 plete coverage. Zimbabwe: Supplementary Population served: 56,000–96,000 with supple- External: US$3 million over 10 years Feeding Programme mentary feeding; up to 60
