Chapter
KEYWORDS: programs, community, health, year, program, nutrition, children, child, cid, chnps, workers, example, resources, coverage, percent


Community Health and Nutrition Programs | 1061 Table 56.3 Continued Country Coverage, targeting Resources, intensity Americas Costa Rica Expanded rural health program coverage Rural health program: US$1.70/child/year F: (cid:2)(cid:2)to 0 19–67 percent (1974–89). Food and Nutrition Program: US$12.50/child/year [Health worker] 1991 on), (cid:5)90 percent of children (cid:4)2 years in these; growth monitoring and home follow- up, plus referral and treatment. home visiting. F: 0 “multiplier” approach, training others; 1980 approximately 1 percent trained; many more for malaria control. Source:See sources for table 56.2. F (cid:3) role of supplementary feeding in the program; F: (cid:2)(cid:2)(cid:3)mainly a feeding program, or primary role; F: (cid:2)(cid:3)significant but not main role, often to selected children; F: ((cid:2)) (cid:3)existed but relatively minor; F: 0 (cid:3)none. Note:The status of community workers is given in brackets in the last column. groups that are hard to include for other reasons—may be thebasisforestimatingthatUS$5toUS$10perchildperyear more expensive to reach. Clearly the calculations depend on maybeneededforeffectiveprograms.Thedollarfiguresvary conditions and have to be made on a case-by-case basis.The fromlessthanUS$1tomorethanUS$20.Probablythelowend principle is obvious: only those areas and people included in ofthisrange(say,lessthanUS$1perchildperyear)doesexplain CHNPs are going to benefit;so wherever need exists,programs low or doubtful effect. Both low coverage and low intensity are indicated. The implementation strategy, in theory, may may explain the unchanged underweight prevalences in the need to begin with the most urgent needs,although in practice, Philippines until 2000. Fund levels in Indonesia are unsure; programs may expand from the easier, more accessible areas; Rohde(1993)gaveafigureof lessthanUS$1,butothersgave this practice seems reasonable, provided that the expansion higherestimates.MostwouldreckontheintensityinIndiatoo really occurs and leads to equitable use ofresources. low (Measham and Chatterjee 1999) at about US$2 per child The program content is a mix ofthe components described peryear.Lookedatotherwise,theintensityplannedforexternal earlier,varying with local priorities.The most crucial difference funding(evenifpartofsuchfundingisinternationalcosts)isin is whether extensive supplementary feeding is included. In the US$10 to US$20 range (Bangladesh, India—Tamil Nadu, middle-income countries, supplementary feeding was less andTanzania)andisthesameastheestimateforThailand.A prominent,often considered unnecessary,and because expen- level of US$10 to US$20 per participant per year is probably sive, perhaps counterproductive (for example, in Costa Rica; advisableforplanningandsustainingeffectiveprograms. Mata 1991).At the other extreme, such as for the Integrated The intensity measures ofworkers per mother-child and the Child Development Services (ICDS) in India,food distribution supervision ratios are relevant in assessing needs. The sug- became the raison d’être of the program but,alone,was again gested norms,originating from the Thai experience are 1:10–20 probably not worthwhile.For some of the intermediate cases, for both.Since then,it has emerged that the full-time equiva-
