Chapter
KEYWORDS: programs, community, health, year, program, nutrition, children, child, cid, chnps, workers, example, resources, coverage, percent


of the program but,alone,was again gested norms,originating from the Thai experience are 1:10–20 probably not worthwhile.For some of the intermediate cases, for both.Since then,it has emerged that the full-time equiva- supplementary food played a supporting role, with varying lence of community workers must be taken into account; the results. Except in the very poorest societies, supplementary Thai workers are local volunteers, probably devoting 10 to feeding seems unlikely to be cost-effective. 20percent oftheir time.In Honduras,Fiedler (2003) in a care- Theresourcesusedfortheprogramsfoundintable56.3can ful cost study estimated that each volunteer spent 3.5 hours per be expressed per participant (referred to as intensity),as total week (less than 10 percent of full-time equivalent, or FTE), expenditures,andintermsofpersonnel;thelatterfiguresmay with a ratio of1 volunteer to 8 children.The ratio ofcommu- resourcesareshownintable56.5.)Datasuchasthesehavebeen therefore,be as low as 1:200 for FTEs and as high as 1:8 or 1:10 1062 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | John B. Mason, David Sanders, Philip Musgrove, and others for part-time volunteers. In Jamaica, where the community which CHNPs’ main role is to provide information and to BRAC program in Bangladesh,it is 1:300,about half-time work ular clinics or for National Immmunization Days and the like). (afternoons) .(An indication of the status Periodic deworming can be conducted by community pro- ofcommunity workers is shown in brackets in the last column grams (and hookworm vaccines currently under development oftable 56.3.) In any event,these ratios provide some basis for maysooncontribute).Supportingtheuseofinsecticide-treated gauging the adequacy ofpersonnel,and it seems that an effec- bednets could be fostered through CHNPs. By far the most tive ratio may be about 1:500 for community workers potentially important application of technology, certainly in employed full time and 1:10 or 1:20 for local volunteers work- Sub-Saharan Africa,will be the unprecedented effort to provide ing part time. millions of people with antiretroviral therapy and associated In reality,the ratios of community workers to children are care and support,as discussed later. probably—not surprisingly—on the low side.Thailand,which trained 600,000 village workers (1 percent of the population), Training, Supervision, Incentives, and Remuneration operated at about 1:20 for part-time volunteers, with similar supervision ratios. The Indonesian program was similar (or Community-based health and nutrition programs typically better) but had much less supervision. In contrast, the low involve community workers, who may be entirely part-time resourcing of the ICDS in India shows up in a ratio of 1:200 volunteers (for example, in Honduras and Thailand) or may (for part-time anganwadi workers, or ANWs), and
