Chapter
KEYWORDS: programs, community, health, year, program, nutrition, children, child, cid, chnps, workers, example, resources, coverage, percent


purposes is highly variable and not always mended but has not yet been widely applied.Improved immu- adequate.Providing resources for visits to provide supervision Community Health and Nutrition Programs | 1063 ratios in effective programs are about 1:20 (table 56.3,last col- frequently be an option.Hiring additional personnel as com- umn,when reported).Supervision and training ofcommunity munityhealthworkerswouldconsumeasignificantproportion supportive rather than disciplinary) should include a substan- wouldamounttoUS$1toUS$2perpersonperyear,orabout tial element ofon-the-job training. 20percentofpublichealthbudgetsinlow-incomecountries). Remuneration and incentives for sustaining motivation are A mix of redeployment of existing staff and new hiring from key issues in replicating the successful features of these pro- budgetreallocationsshould,nonetheless,becost-effective. grams,and the options vary with the culture.In Thailand,it is argued that village volunteers consider the prestige associated Organization with the role ofhealth worker preferable to getting a low wage. incentive.For the ICDS in India,in contrast,the ANW receives community level seems to have been a key feature of the suc- a small financial remuneration, but the government (as else- cess in launching,expanding,and sustaining CHNPs.Most of where) will not grant formal employment status (and attempts thesuccessfulCHNPsdrewandbuiltonestablishedcommunity to form unions have been strongly discouraged).Direct com- procedures;where they did not,effect and sustainability were work are rare.One opportunity to study options for remuner- organization at village level were important.The health services ation is in the Philippines, where under a World Bank Early themselves play a key role in Costa Rica, Honduras, and Child Development project, the child development worker Jamaica. In Indonesia, it was the community organizations receives a wage,which could be compared to near-volunteers at (and women’s groups) together with (initially) the family- the barangay(village) level. planning services.In Iringa,Tanzania,it was the local political When CHNWs are primarily voluntary,they are selected by party structure, with substantial input from UNICEF. In the community and report to community committees in some Zimbabwe,immediately after independence,it was the village form. CHNWs on government payrolls may come from the organizations that had fought the war,later helped by a con- communities and thus may be known to and identify with the sortium of national and international nongovernmental communities,but they may report to supervisors higher up in organizations (NGOs). The major part of the still-expanding the system.Both models can work,depending on the culture. program in Bangladesh is run by BRAC,an NGO,and has built Whatprobablyworksleastwelliswhenthecommunityworker on its links to the community for development,food security, from the community or even comes from elsewhere. CHNPs that either failed to launch a wide program (for exam- Furthermore, as development
