Chapter
KEYWORDS: programs, community, health, year, program, nutrition, children, child, cid, chnps, workers, example, resources, coverage, percent


its links to the community for development,food security, from the community or even comes from elsewhere. CHNPs that either failed to launch a wide program (for exam- Furthermore, as development progresses, reliance on volun- ple,in the Philippines) or had limited effect (in India,ICDS) teerism may become less useful. probably lacked some ofthese features.Inclusiveness is proba- For planning CHNPs in terms of community workers,the bly hard to achieve ifnot inherent. total numbers and resource implications can be estimated as Supportfromthecentralgovernmentisalsocrucial:CHNPs follows. A full-time equivalent CHNW might visit 5 to 10 needthissupportfortraining,supervision,wages,supplies,facil- householdsperday,averagingavisittoeachhouseholdroughly ities,andthelike.Wheresuchsupportbecomesaregulargov- everytwomonths;aratioof1CHNWto200households,there- ernmentbudgetitem,activitiestendtobecomeembeddedand fore,seemstobeintherangewithinwhichaneffectintermsof aresustained,incontrasttowherethesupportisfromdonors. improvingchildhealthandnutritionisexpected.Calculations A further issue concerns maintaining the community pro- range for expected effect. An important factor in regard to medicalized) the posyandu (weighing post, or community personnelwhohavetrainingandjobdescriptionsforcommu- treatment module (in fact,a table in the meeting place).This andfinancialreasonsseldomleavethehealthfacility.Moreover, the preventive aspects ofthe program.Thus,ifthe extension of fundsmaynotbereleasedtoallowtraveltonearbyvillages.An IMCI into the community means treatment (by trained but not CHAsspendtimehelpinginclinicsratherthanonhomevisits; referral to facilities,treatment could become the main or even in fact,technology could free staff time for community work sole focus, shifting attention from prevention. Some parallels by automating tasks, such as record keeping, that detain the existtotheexperienceofICDSinIndia,where,asnotedearlier, CHAs. More effective deployment of existing personnel may food became the raison d’être. 1064 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | John B. Mason, David Sanders, Philip Musgrove, and others CONTEXTUAL FACTORS cult to distinguish from program effects (current examples are in Bangladesh and Vietnam,both showing rapid improvement Community-based programs can work usefully, bringing in nutrition).Moreover,the same factors (again,such as edu- steady progress; whether they do depends on myriad factors cation) may both produce endogenous change and increase the relating to the context.Three different concerns are (a) factors effect ofprogram activities. affecting widespread initiation of CHNPs of potentially ade- Five contextual factors have been suggested as priorities (in quate coverage,intensity,and content;(b) factors that lead to Asia;Mason and others 2001): sustainability;and (c) factors that allow activities to be effective • women’s status and education • lack ofsocial exclusion selves,also contribute to a rapid transitional improvement,as • community organization in Thailand,Costa Rica,and Jamaica. • literacy Contextual factors may bring about improvements in health • political commitment. and nutrition without any additional direct action—through improving living conditions, education, and so forth. Often, Table 56.4 shows estimates ofthe positions ofcountries with the changes caused by such nonprogrammatic factors are diffi- case study programs in regard to these factors. The levels of Table 56.4 Context
