Chapter
KEYWORDS: programs, community, health, year, program, nutrition, children, child, cid, chnps, workers, example, resources, coverage, percent


mobilization, as seems to be the case Operationally, this commitment to human rights puts and Nicaragua. Declining political commitment accounts for broaden the dialogue and scope for allocating resources and loss ofinterest by the government in CHNPs;economic decline to avoid committing resources regardless ofthe prospect of undermining resource availability may cause a shift away from success as influenced by the social and human rights con- table 56.4,estimates of levels of contextual factors are totaled policies to support the success of interventions would be both without and including political commitment (last two pragmatic as well as the right thing to do. columns). The total without commitment may indicate how • Second,even ifthe context is more favorable,genuine polit- favorable the context is if commitment is then made. Costa ical commitment is still essential.Excessive donor input may Rica,Jamaica,and Thailand had a favorable context and,with inhibit this commitment. It is striking that Thailand had commitment, succeeded. The Philippines had comparable to reject donor influence and make its internal decisions favorable conditions—the position of women is generally before its programs became successful (Tontisirin and good, there is limited social division (exclusion), and so on. Winichagoon 1999),Costa Rica had to fight and overcome However,the necessary commitment (ofresources,in particu- a medicalized approach (Muñoz and Scrimshaw 1995),and lar) was made only recently,with new legislation,adherence to Indonesia’s posyandu system was undermined when treat- regulations (for example,iodized salt went from 25 to 65 per- ment displaced prevention . cent coverage), and increased resource allocation and assign- • Third,it is clear that severe economic stress,political pres- ment ofcommunity workers.This new commitment may well sure, or both have caused unsustainability (Indonesia, explain the recently resumed decrease in child malnutrition Nicaragua,Tanzania,and TINP). (figure 56.2). In other examples—such as Indonesia and • Fourth,if the context is unfavorable, it might be better to Tanzania—the conditions were moderately favorable, and work on improving the context than to commit resources to while political support and finance existed,progress was made. programs that may not succeed—but,of course,success in In Tanzania, financial crisis denied the programs sustained improving context itselfdepends on circumstances,notably support; in Indonesia and Zimbabwe, bureaucratization and political commitment. centralization of the political process, followed by political turmoil,contributed to a similar outcome .The Considerations like these should contribute to identifying situations in India and Bangladesh have not been very favor- supporting policies needed for programs to be effective and able. The position of women and social rifts, amounting
