Chapter
KEYWORDS: programs, community, health, year, program, nutrition, children, child, cid, chnps, workers, example, resources, coverage, percent


to identifying situations in India and Bangladesh have not been very favor- supporting policies needed for programs to be effective and able. The position of women and social rifts, amounting to modifications to interventions in particular conditions. For exclusion, have probably inhibited effective programs, even example, it is often observed that a particular factor—say, with political commitment.This context may now be changing access to health services—is more strongly related to improve- in Bangladesh, as seen in the activities of BRAC. Finally, this ment among the better off (for example, the educated) analysis demonstrates the relation of decline in programs to population.This interaction of program with context leads to falling political commitment in Tanzania, Zimbabwe, and identifying new needs—in this example, perhaps facilitating Indonesia. access for the illiterate.In the longer run,resources or legisla- Ifthis analysis approximates the truth,the forward-looking tion (for example,to combat social exclusion or discrimination policy implications may be important: against women) may be highlighted as prerequisites before a program can be expected to work.Often failure to take account • First, investing initially in a favorable context makes sense ofcontext when trying to transfer experiences from a pilot trial (as does possibly committing resources preferentially to (“scaling up”) may explain why efficacious interventions prove interventions in the more favorable contexts). Supporting ineffective in a larger population. policies can address social constraints—such as improving This analysis ofcontextual circumstances indicates that tar- education for women—and (relatedly) seek to improve geting the poor may not always be cost-effective, and some human rights.In many cases,human rights may be ofover- interventions may not be feasible in certain contexts.An exam- riding importance for health: Farmer (2003) has made a ple is when the health infrastructure and services are almost 1066 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | John B. Mason, David Sanders, Philip Musgrove, and others emergency treatment (especially for the diseases addressed by RESULTS IMCI) should be established and reliable resources put in place Indicators ofprogress in implementation—process indicators— first. A similar difficulty, often seen in food security, is that referring to coverage,intensity,and so on,are shown in table most interventions may not work for the poorest of the poor. 56.3.As discussed earlier,most programs expanded population For instance, supporting food (or cash crop) production in coverage without much targeting. But usually the level of low-potential areas may not be realistic; nonagricultural resource application (intensity) was on the low side. More employment may be better.
