Chapter
KEYWORDS: programs, community, health, year, program, nutrition, children, child, cid, chnps, workers, example, resources, coverage, percent


in coverage without much targeting. But usually the level of low-potential areas may not be realistic; nonagricultural resource application (intensity) was on the low side. More employment may be better. research is needed on the contribution of CHNPs to health Thus,community-based programs work in a specific time process indicators,such as immunization coverage rates,as well and place:programs may start,work for a time,and then evolve as to nonhealth activities,for instance,in agriculture and com- or fade away. Even if they fade away, some useful effect may munity development. be achieved: sustainability need not be forever. At the same Impact evaluation,which refers to the net effects of inter- time,short project cycles (three years for many donors) can act against sustained programs.Some compromise in donor poli- efficacy of most of the component parts of CHNPs, when cies to allow assurance of continuity for reasonable periods resources are adequate and the problems are correctly identi- (such as 10 years) could do a lot to increase the effectiveness of fied, is established, but in routinely administered large-scale donor support to CHNPs. programs,thechangesinoutcomethatcanbeascribedtopro- The essence of time and place is not fully understood. gramactionsarelessknown.Althoughcontrolledtrialsbydef- Werner and Sanders (1997) give examples of favorable times, initionarenotapplicable,plausibleevidencecanbeobtainedby aswhentheoldorderischanging(forexample,afterinternal carefulattentiontoresearchdesign,measurement,andanalysis conflict, as in Nicaragua and Zimbabwe) and when there is (Habicht,Victora,andVaughan1999).Someformof“withand renewedvigorandsomeneworganizationisinplace.Another without” and “before and after” comparisons is needed; for generalizationofafavorablecontextiswhenenergyandinter- instance, such methods as staggered implementation, natural connectedness exist in society. Thailand illustrates both: the experiments, and selection of comparison groups with some Thais needed to change the approach, moving away from statistical control can yield valuable information now lacking donorinfluence,inordertoinitiatethesuccessfulcommunity andshouldbemorewidelyattempted.Inthiscontext,itshould programs that helped transform health and nutrition benotedthatbecauseofthetimingandlevelofeffortnecessary throughout the country, and that worked in part because of for the evaluation, the impact evaluation results (changes in cohesivefeaturesofThaisociety(TontisirinandWinichagoon outcomeascribedtotheprogram)maybemoreimportantfor 1999). policydecisionsonfutureprogramsthanfortheprogramthat In these examples, programs that continued on a large hasbeenevaluated.Moreover,notallprogramsrequiredetailed scale—either until the problem was largely resolved,as in Costa evaluation. Thus, financial support for such policy-relevant Rica,Jamaica,and Thailand,or as it was expanding,as in BRAC evaluationsmaycomefrombudgetsotherthanthatofthepro- in Bangladesh or AIN-C (Atención Integral a la Niñez gramtobeevaluated.Theevaluationsshouldalsobeprospec- Comunitaria) in Honduras—clearly had supportive context, tive as far as possible, so decisions on evaluation design and but their specific common features (and hence how they could financeareneededearlierratherthanlater. be replicated) are elusive. Perhaps one crucial condition for success is that circumstances are such that people and commu- nities begin to have the sense that they can take responsibility Impact for—and control of—their
