Chapter
KEYWORDS: programs, community, health, year, program, nutrition, children, child, cid, chnps, workers, example, resources, coverage, percent


people with AIDS will be The question of incentives,training,and support for commu- home based in most cases and will depend substantially on nity workers urgently needs research,both from current expe- community support. Nutrition is an important component; rience and with prospective designs. The issues include the improved food intake is likely to enhance the effect of anti- following: retroviral therapy, and when treatment progresses, nutrition will help get sick people back on their feet and returned to a • What is the CHNW’s status,relative to the community or to productive life.A village health worker could play a key role in the government (or NGO) hierarchy? sick adults.This fact means that most communities need pro- • What educational background and how much training and grams:the problem is not highly concentrated.On the positive retraining—and by what methods—are needed for side,the more developed and accessible communities are those CHNWs? most affected by AIDS (Mason and others forthcoming; • What ratios ofCHNWs to households are effective (or most UNICEF 2004), where establishing programs may be easier. cost-effective), both as part-time workers (volunteer or HIV and AIDS are affecting children both directly,as pediatric otherwise) and as full-time employees? AIDS,and indirectly,through the impoverishment and destitu- • What supervision ratios work? tion of affected households. This effect is seen in worsening • What remuneration and incentives are effective? child malnutrition.Here,too,support through CHNPs could • How can these efforts be financed? play a useful role. The characteristics ofCHNPs elsewhere—in terms ofinten- Enough programs have been in operation for long enough sity, training, supervision, and so forth—may provide some that researchers could base on them much of the needed guidance for establishing or extending them in Africa. research on processes ofimplementation,launching new trials Mechanisms for identifying,supporting,and training village or only for processes for which sufficient information does not ence with CHNPs; such issues as their identification in the ably prospective studies. community and links with community and facility programs A major gap in research is the application of community- will arise.A key issue will be the remuneration and incentives based programs to urban areas. Urban communities are Community Health and Nutrition Programs | 1071 conceived differently from the rural areas of most CHNPs, Cohen,D,S.Spear,R.Scribner,P.Kissinger,K.Mason,and J.Wildgen. organizations run along different lines,and so forth.Yet popu- 2000. “‘Broken Windows’ and the Risk of Gonorrhea.” American Journal ofPublic Health90 (2):230–36. lation growth is in urban areas, and some problems, notably Delgado, H. L.,
