Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


OI: Osteogenesis imperfecta OLEDAID: Osteoporosis, lymphedema, anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia with immunodeficiency OP: Osteopetrosis OPG: Osteoprotegerin PAR1: Short arm autosomal region PAR2: Long arm autosomal region PG: Proteoglycan PHP1A: Pseudohypoparathyroidism, type 1a PPHP: Pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism PTH: Parathyroid hormone RANKL: receptor activator of nuclear kB ligand RTA: renal tubular acidosis SADDAN: Severe achondroplasia with developmental delay and acanthosis nigricans SD: Standard deviation SKELETAL DYSPLASIAS IN ANTIQUITY Skeletal dysplasias have been recognized since the beginning of recorded history. The earliest archaeological evidence of skeletal dysplasias dates to the Badarian period (4500 BCE) in ancient Egypt ( 1 ). The ‘Badarian Skeleton’, which was once displayed at the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons in England, had characteristics of short-limbed dwarfism, possibly multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ( 2 ). The remains of individuals with skeletal dysplasias are abundant and include complete and partial skeletons. A stillborn daughter of King Tutankhamun was found to have scoliosis, spina bifida, and scapular abnormalities. The depiction of individuals with skeletal dysplasia has been found in artifacts from Ancient Egypt, Classical Greece, Mesoamerica, Sub-Saharan Africa, Tang China, and 17 th century Europe ( 3 ). Although interpretation of art with medical accuracy poses some challenges, throughout history, the most common skeletal dysplasias were those with good survival and function, including achondroplasia and spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita. The achondroplasia phenotype is depicted in artifacts and art from many different cultures. EVALUATION OF THE SHORT CHILD Short stature is a common clinical manifestation in children and is defined as a height standard deviation score (SDS) < -2 for age. The first step in evaluating a child with short stature is to analyze the child’s growth curve and compare it to an ethnicity-appropriate reference. Specific attention should be paid to the growth history and pubertal timing of the parents as well as first- and second-degree relatives. Birth history should be reviewed for abnormal prenatal growth and prenatal conditions affecting growth. After a thorough familial and clinical history and examination, treatable endocrine and non-endocrine causes should be excluded ( Table 1 ). Table 1. Evaluation of the Short Child View in own window Laboratory Studies TSH, free T4, IGF-1, IGFBP-3, CBC, CMP, ESR, CRP, and urinalysis. Imaging Bone age Skeletal survey (if abnormal body proportions or height SD well below the mid-parental height) Genetic testing Karyotype and Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) for XY for females with unexplained short stature A key part of the
