Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


or height SD well below the mid-parental height) Genetic testing Karyotype and Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) for XY for females with unexplained short stature A key part of the evaluation of a short child is accurate assessment of height and body proportions. Determining whether a child has proportionate or disproportionate short stature is essential as disproportionate growth is a key feature of multiple skeletal dysplasias, including mild skeletal dysplasias caused by haploinsufficiency of SHOX, ACAN, NPR2, IHH, NPPC. For a detailed discussion regarding the work up and treatment of patients with idiopathic short stature, the reader is referred to the EndoText Chapter on this topic which can be found at: https://www.endotext.org/chapter/idiopathic-short-stature-and-growth-failure-of-unknown-etiology/ Standard Techniques For Height Measurement The positioning of a child is of the utmost importance as poor positioning results in inaccurate measurement. For standing measurements, a stadiometer should be used. The feet should be together and flat on the ground, facing outward at a 60-degree angle with the heel against the wall or a backboard. The legs should be straight with the buttocks and scapulae against the backboard. When measuring very young children, an assistant may be required to ensure the legs are straight. The head should be positioned so that the lower margin of the orbit is in the same plane as the external auditory meatus. All hair ornaments should be removed. The horizontal bar of the stadiometer should be lowered, taking care to compress the hair. The measurement should be repeated thrice and the average of the three measurements used. Accurately record the height to the nearest 1/8 th inch or 0.1 centimeter. Diurnal variation in height measurements occurs in both children and adults because of the effect of gravity on the intervertebral discs ( 4 ). This has important implications for clinical practice, particularly in the timing and standardization of pediatric height measurements. Most height loss occurs during the first few hours after rising, with the maximal height loss by mid-afternoon; the average decrease can be up to 1-1.5 cm over the day ( 4 - 7 ). This variation can introduce significant error when evaluating short-term growth or monitoring children for growth disorders. Measuring children in the evening (between 1800 and 2100 hours) is ideal, as diurnal variation is smallest during this period. As this is not practical for most clinicians, errors can be minimized by recording the time of measurements and using consistent
