Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


ideal, as diurnal variation is smallest during this period. As this is not practical for most clinicians, errors can be minimized by recording the time of measurements and using consistent timing for serial measurements whenever possible ( 5 , 8 ). Obtaining anthropometric measurements on children with special needs can be a significant challenge due to dystonic posturing, fixed flexion deformities, scoliosis, or poor cooperation. Non-ambulatory children should be measured supine using a recumbent length measuring board. Care should be taken during positioning ensuring that the head is positioned in contact with the headboard and the back, legs, and feet are correctly positioned with the feet flat against the footboard. Positioning of children with special needs often requires two individuals to ensure accurate measurement. Segmental measures have been used to estimate height, though this technique showed fair to poor agreement between estimated height and actual height in children with cerebral palsy ( 9 ). Pediatric Body Proportions Normal childhood growth involves a change in body proportions throughout development. Infants have short extremities relative to the trunk and the sitting height represents approximately two-thirds of an infant’s length. By the time of puberty, limb growth exceeds spinal growth, and sitting height becomes approximately 50% of standing height. The head becomes a smaller portion of total body surface area as children grow. Lawson Wilkins (1894-1963), a pioneer in pediatric endocrinology, was the first to use the ‘lower segment’ (the distance from the pubic bone to the floor), as a direct measurement of leg length ( 10 ). The upper segment is calculated by subtracting the lower segment from the height and the ratio is used as a measure of proportion. Reference data for this is scarce and the most widely used data is based on North American Children. Reference data have also been generated for several other populations ( 11 , 12 ). James Tanner published data regarding the use of the sitting height (SH), a direct measurement of the trunk and head as part of the Harpenden Growth Study ( 13 ). After obtaining the sitting height, the leg length is then calculated by subtracting the sitting height from the standing height. The sitting height to height ratio (SH/H) is felt to be a more accurate indicator of proportion. Reference charts for non-Hispanic Black, non-Hispanic White, and Mexican American children in the United States were recently published using NHANES III data
