Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


to be a more accurate indicator of proportion. Reference charts for non-Hispanic Black, non-Hispanic White, and Mexican American children in the United States were recently published using NHANES III data ( 14 ). These data include mean (SD) and Lambda-Mu-Sigma (LMS) growth curves to support the use of these charts in the clinical care of patients. Reference data is also available for several other populations ( 15 - 19 ). Arm span (AS) is another anthropometric measure which can be used as a surrogate marker of height (H). When expressed as a relationship to height, either as AS/H or AS-H, it can be a useful tool to identify children with skeletal dysplasia. It has been shown that the most reliable indicator of SHOX haploinsufficiency is disproportionate growth with a decreased arm span to height ratio (<96.5%)( 20 ). Data from the 2001 Maastricht II study, a mixed longitudinal study of 2595 Caucasian children aged 0 to 17, was used to construct reference data for AS-H and AS/H. This study found that arm span correlates well with height at all ages. The mean AS-H from 2 to 17 years increased in both boys and girls. Reference tables are available in the text ( 21 ). This study also found that pediatric patients with heterozygous v ariants in ACAN (the gene encoding the protein aggrecan), have an arm AS/H of +1 SDS in individuals less than 10 years of age and +1.5 SDS is adolescents( 21 ). This difference is due to premature epiphyseal fusion seen in this condition. Assessment of arm length is an important part of the physical exam when a skeletal dysplasia is suspected. The upper arm (rhizomelic) length is assessed by measuring the distance from the acromion to the olecranon with the elbow bent at 90 degrees. This segment is short in achondroplasia, hypochondroplasia, metaphyseal dysplasias, chondrodysplasia punctata, and spondyloepiphyseal dysplasias. The forearm (mesomelic) length is assessed by measuring the distance from the olecranon process to the distal lateral part of the radius along the lateral surface of the forearm. This segment is short in Leri-Weill dyschondrosteosis ( 22 ). Figure 1 details common skeletal dysplasias associated with abnormal AS/H and SH/H. Figure 1. Common skeletal dysplasias associated with abnormal SH/H and AS/H. CLASSIFICATION OF SKELETAL DYSPLASIAS The “Nosology of Genetic Skeletal Disorders” was first published in 1970 and by the 1980’s, molecular criteria were used in classification,
