Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


with abnormal SH/H and AS/H. CLASSIFICATION OF SKELETAL DYSPLASIAS The “Nosology of Genetic Skeletal Disorders” was first published in 1970 and by the 1980’s, molecular criteria were used in classification, beginning with identification of variants in type 1 collagen. Disorders were originally classified based on radiographic criteria, however, with advances in DNA sequencing technology, disorders are now classified based on functional and molecular criteria. The ‘Nosology’ underwent its 11 th revision in 2023 and contains 771 disorders associated with 552 genes, an increase from 461 disorders and 437 genes from the previous revision in 2019 ( 23 ). To be included in the 2023 Nosology, disorders had to have a recognizable phenotype and a clear inheritance pattern or molecular definition. In the 11 th revision, a new dyadic naming system is used which associates the phenotype with the associated gene. It is important to remember that there is phenotypic heterogeneity within a single gene locus, and it is rare for an individual to have all the phenotypic criteria for a disorder. The first 8 groups in the Nosology are separated according to the molecular basis of the disease. The other 33 groups are organized according to their clinical and radiographic criteria. The prefix acro- refers to the extremities (hands and feet), meso- to the middle portion (ulna and radius, tibia and fibula), rhizo- to the proximal portion (femur and humerus) [ Figure 2 ], spondylo- to the spine, epi- to the epiphyses, and meta- to the metaphyses. For example, if only the hands and feet are shorter, one would consult the acromelic group of conditions, whereas if the spine and metaphyses are affected, one would consult the spondylo-metaphyseal dysplasias. The text that follows will focus on disorders which may be encountered by the pediatric endocrinologist. Each table details inheritance pattern, gene or locus, location, and MIM number. The disorders are listed in the order that they appear in the 2023 Nosology. Readers are directed to the 2023 Nosology of Genetic Skeletal Disorders for detailed information regarding the complete list of skeletal dysplasias and their phenotypes ( 24 ). Figure 2. Rhizomelic, mesomelic, and acromelic shortening. Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor 3 (FGFR3) Chondrodysplasias Table 2. FGFR3 Chondrodysplasias View in own window Name of Disorder Inheritance Gene or locus Location MIM No. Thanatophoric dysplasia (Type 1) AD FGFR3 4p.16.3 187600 Thanatophoric dysplasia (Type 2) AD FGFR3 4p16.3 187601 Severe achondroplasia with developmental
