Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


Name of Disorder Inheritance Gene or locus Location MIM No. Thanatophoric dysplasia (Type 1) AD FGFR3 4p.16.3 187600 Thanatophoric dysplasia (Type 2) AD FGFR3 4p16.3 187601 Severe achondroplasia with developmental delay and acanthosis nigricans (SADDAN) AD FGFR3 4p16.3 616482 Achondroplasia AD FGFR3 4p16.3 100800 Hypochondroplasia AD FGFR3 4p16.3 146000 The FGFR3 chondrodysplasias are caused by autosomal dominant (AD) mutations in FGFR3 , located on 4p16.3. This group of disorders ranges from thanatophoric dysplasia, often lethal in the perinatal period, to hypochondroplasia, the mildest of the FGFR3 chondrodysplasias. FGFR3, one of four fibroblast growth factor receptors in humans, is a cell surface receptor that controls cellular proliferation. FGFR3 is comprised of an extracellular domain comprised of three immunoglobulin-like regions, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain. Binding of various growth factors, specifically, FGF 2, 9, 18, and 23, induces receptor dimerization, transphosphorylation of tyrosine residues, and activation of signaling pathways, including mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)( 25 ). FGFR3 shortens the proliferative phase of chondrocytic bone growth and accelerates terminal differentiation, thereby negatively regulating bone growth. Gain of function mutations in FGFR3 lead to increased signal transduction and suppression of chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation. Disorders in the FGFR3 chondrodysplasias are all caused by gain of function mutations in FGFR3, however, the mutations that cause thanatophoric dysplasia are more strongly activating that those causing achondroplasia and hypochondroplasia, providing an explanation for the phenotypic variability in this class of disorders ( 26 ). The most severe of the FGFR3 chondrodysplasias, thanatophoric dysplasia, is a severe short-limbed dwarfism which is characterized by micromelia with bowed femurs, short ribs, narrow thorax, macrocephaly, distinctive facial features, brachydactyly, hypotonia. The condition, named for the Greek word thanatophorus, which means “death bringing” or “death bearing”, is often lethal in the perinatal period. Type I is characterized by micromelia with bowed femurs and, rarely, craniosynostosis of varying severity ( Figure 3 ). Type 2 is characterized my micromelia with straight femurs and moderate to severe craniosynostosis involving the coronal, lambdoid, and sagittal sutures. This results in a trilobed or “cloverleaf skull” as see in Figure 4 ( 27 ). Additional radiographic features include rhizomelic shortening of long bones with irregular metaphyses, platyspondyly, and a small foramen magnum. Differences between type 1 and type 2 are correlated to the FGFR3 variant. The p. Lys650Glu pathogenic variant is present in >99% of individuals with type 2. Other features common to
