Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


between type 1 and type 2 are correlated to the FGFR3 variant. The p. Lys650Glu pathogenic variant is present in >99% of individuals with type 2. Other features common to both type 1 and type 2 include large anterior fontanelle, frontal bossing with depressed nasal bridge, ocular proptosis, redundant skin folds ( 27 ). Central nervous system (CNS) abnormalities include temporal lobe malformations, hydrocephalus, brain stem hypoplasia, and neuronal migration abnormalities ( 28 ). Figure 3. Thanatophoric dysplasia type 1 – Severe platyspondyly, very short ribs, narrow thorax, short broad pelvis, large skull, and bowed femurs. Reproduced from https://www.endotext.org/chapter/skeletal-dysplasias (January 2017). Figure 4. Thanatophoric dysplasia type 2- ‘Cloverleaf’ appearance to the skull due to craniosynostosis involving the coronal, lambdoid, and sagittal sutures ( 29 ). Achondroplasia is the most common skeletal dysplasia, affecting over 360,000 people worldwide( 30 ). It is caused by pathogenic gain-of-function missense variants in FGFR3 which encodes FGFR3 . Approximately 80% of affected individuals have a de novo mutation and the remaining 20% inherit the pathogenic variant from their parent in an autosomal dominant manner. De novo variants in FGFR3 are associated with advanced paternal age ( 31 ). The p. Gly380Arg (c.1138G>A) variant is found in 98-99% of individuals with achondroplasia and p.GlyArg (c.113G>C) is found in 1% ( 32 ). During postnatal growth, FGFR3 signaling inhibits chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation through the RAS-MAPK pathway. Gain-of-function mutations in FGFR3 lead to excess activation of this pathway, inhibition of chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation, and subsequent impaired bone matrix synthesis and bone growth ( 33 ). The diagnosis of achondroplasia should be suspected in a newborn with proximal shortening of the arms, macrocephaly, brachydactyly, and a narrow chest. Characteristic radiographic features include short and square ilia, horizontal acetabula, narrow sacro-sciatic notches, narrowing interpedicular distances progressing from L1 to L5, and proximal femoral radiolucency ( Figure 5 ). Individuals with achondroplasia have disproportionate short stature with rhizomelic shortening of the arms with redundant skin folds on the limbs. The average height for adult men is 131± 5.6 cm and for women is 124 ± 5.9 cm. Other clinical features include macrocephaly with frontal bossing, midface retrusion and a depressed nasal bridge, limited elbow extension, brachydactyly with trident configuration of the hands, genu varum, thoracolumbar kyphosis in infancy with exaggerated lumbar lordosis once ambulatory. Figure 5. Achondroplasia- Small rounded iliac bones, horizontal acetabula, decreasing interpedicular distance, normal vertebral body
