Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


of the hands, genu varum, thoracolumbar kyphosis in infancy with exaggerated lumbar lordosis once ambulatory. Figure 5. Achondroplasia- Small rounded iliac bones, horizontal acetabula, decreasing interpedicular distance, normal vertebral body height, short ribs. Reproduced from https://www.endotext.org/chapter/skeletal-dysplasias (January 2017). Vosoritide (VOXZOGO ® ), a modified recombinant C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) analog which counteracts abnormal FGFR3 signaling to allow for more normal endochondral bone growth, is the first therapy to improve final adult height in individuals with achondroplasia ( 34 ). Due to positive improvements in height velocity and an overall excellent safety profile in clinical trials ( 34 - 36 ), vosoritide was approved by both the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2021 for children with achondroplasia who have open epiphyses and are ≥ 5 years of age in the USA and ≥ 2 years in the European Union (EU). In 2023, the indication was expanded to all children with open epiphyses in the USA and those greater than 4 months of age in the EU. Hypochondroplasia is the mildest of the FGFR3 chondrodysplasias. Approximately 80% of cases are caused by one of two variants in FGFR3 (c.1620C>A and c.1620C>G) which results in the protein amino acid change p.Asn540Lys ( 37 ). Similar to achondroplasia, de novo variants in FGFR3 are associated with advanced paternal age ( 31 ). The diagnosis of hypochondroplasia can be challenging as there is a wide range of clinical severity and the clinical features evolve over time. It is characterized by short stature with a stocky build, disproportionate shorting of the extremities, lumbar lordosis, brachydactyly, mild joint laxity, limitation of elbow extension, and macrocephaly ( 38 ). Radiographic features are like achondroplasia and include shortening of the long bones with metaphyseal flare, narrowing of the inferior lumbar interpedicular distances, and shortened and squared ilia ( Figure 6 ). However, features commonly seen in achondroplasia including the characteristic proximal femoral radiolucency and facial bone abnormalities, are rarely seen in hypochondroplasia. Clinically, cognitive abnormalities, epilepsy, and temporal lobe dysgenesis are more common in individuals with hypochondroplasia. Molecular confirmation of the diagnosis is recommended as diagnostic criteria for hypochondroplasia remain controversial due to wide phenotypic and genetic heterogeneity and lack of a single radiographic or clinical finding that is unique to the disorder. Figure 6. Hypochondroplasia. decreased interpedicular distance, short broad long bones, short wide femoral necks, relative elongation of the
