Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


a single radiographic or clinical finding that is unique to the disorder. Figure 6. Hypochondroplasia. decreased interpedicular distance, short broad long bones, short wide femoral necks, relative elongation of the distal fibula compared to the tibia. Reproduced from https://www.endotext.org/chapter/skeletal-dysplasias (January 2017). The last disorder int the FGFR3 group is severe achondroplasia with developmental delay and acanthosis nigricans (SADDAN) which is caused by a heterozygous FGFR3 pathogenic variant (c.1949A>T) that results in a Lys650Met substitution. There is some clinical overlap with thanatophoric dysplasia, type 1, however, the disorder is compatible with survival into adulthood. In addition to the skeletal findings of short stature, macrocephaly, rhizomelic and mesomelic limb shortening, and severe tibial bowing, individuals also have progressive acanthosis nigricans, central nervous system abnormalities, seizures, and severe developmental delays ( 39 , 40 ). Skeletal Dysplasias Caused by Sulfation Defects and Disorders of Proteoglycan Core Proteins The extracellular matrix of bone is a crucial component of its structural and functional integrity. It is composed of 50-70% calcium and phosphate and 20-40% organic components including proteoglycans (PGs) and glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). PGs are macromolecules which maintain structural integrity of bone by organizing the extracellular matrix and regulating collagen fibrillogenesis. Glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) are linear polysaccharide chains which are attached to PGs and are essential for normal PG function. The GAGs in bone, chondroitin sulfate and hyaluronan, are acidic and hydrophilic and contribute to tissue hydration and elasticity. GAG sulfation promotes osteogenesis and has anti-osteoclastic effects which is important for normal bone remodeling ( 41 ). GAGs and PGs have also been shown to mediate signaling pathways, including Wnt, receptor activator of nuclear κB ligand (RANKL)/osteoprotegerin (OPG), and BMP, further highlighting their role in normal bone homeostasis( 42 ). Defects in sulfation and function of PGs and GAGs lead to a heterogenous group of skeletal dysplasias with broad phenotypic heterogeneity, several of which have endocrine manifestations. The complete list of skeletal dysplasias caused by sulfation disorders (Table 3) and proteoglycan core protein disorders (Table 4) as detailed in the 2023 Nosology are below. Select disorders which may be encountered by the pediatric endocrinologist will be discussed in detail are listed in green italicized text . We refer the reader to OMIM ( https://www.omim.org ) and the 2023 Nosology for details regarding the other listed disorders. Table 3. Skeletal Dysplasias Caused by Sulfation Disorders View in own window Name of Disorder Inheritance Gene or Locus Location MIM
