Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


longitudinal striations, mild epiphyseal flattening, and irregular metaphyses are also described ( 46 ). As PAPSS2 also helps sulfonate dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) to DHEA-sulfate, compound heterozygous mutations leading to PAPSS2 deficiency will lead to low DHEAS and a low DHEAS/DHEA ratio. These mutations have been described in patients with premature pubarche, hyperandrogenic anovulation, very low DHEAS, increased androgen levels, and skeletal dysplasia ( 47 ). Interestingly, although the bone phenotype is present in all patients with PAPSS2 mutations, androgen excess is less frequently described, however, the reason for this variability has not been full elucidated ( 44 ) Heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs) are composted of a core protein and heparin sulfate, a highly sulfated GAG. Heparan sulfate 2-O-sulfotransferase 1 (HS2ST1), which catalyzes the transfer of sulfate groups to the sugar moiety of heparan sulfate, is important in signal transduction pathways. AR mutations in HS2ST1 lead to Developmental Delay with Corpus Callosum, Skeletal, and Renal Abnormalities (MIM No. 619914). This disorder is characterized by developmental delay and/or intellectual disability, corpus callosum hypoplasia or agenesis, dysmorphic facies (up-slanting palpebral fissures, broad nasal tip, wide mouth) and skeletal abnormalities (short stature, scoliosis, flexion contractures, broad fingers and/or toes). Renal agenesis has been described in some patients ( 48 ). Aggrecan (ACAN) is a large chondroitin sulphated proteoglycan which is a major structural component of physeal and articular cartilage. It has a fixed negative charge which attracts counter-ions and water, which allows cartilage to withstand mechanical loading in the joint space ( 49 ). Mutations in ACAN cause a broad phenotypic spectrum of skeletal dysplasias which include the following: Spondylo-epiphyseal dysplasia, Kimberly-type. (AD, MIM No. 608361) Spondylo-epi-metaphyseal dysplasia, aggrecan-type (AR, MIM No. 612813) Short stature with advanced bone age, ACAN-related (AR, MIM No. 165800) Idiopathic short stature. Kimberly-type spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia is a mild skeletal dysplasia characterized by short stature, stocky build, and early-onset osteoarthritis ( 50 ). Individuals with short stature with advanced bone age typically present with short stature and a history of growth early growth cessation. Other features include mild facial dysmorphism with midface hypoplasia, flat nasal bridge, broad great toes, and short thumbs ( 51 ). An international cohort of 103 individuals from more than 20 families was described by Gkourogianni et al. in 2017. Affected individuals had low-normal birth length, proportionate short stature, early growth cessation, and attenuated pubertal growth spurts. Early onset osteoarthritis was common. Following SHOX gene defects, heterozygous
