Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


most common and least severe of the metaphyseal chondrodysplasias. The disorder is characterized by progressive short-limbed short stature which is apparent by two years of age and lumbar lordosis which is present by three to five years of age. Affected individuals have a waddling gait due to the lumbar lordosis ( 56 ). There are no extra-skeletal manifestations and craniofacial features are normal. Radiographic findings include shortening of the tubular bones, metaphyseal irregularities (splaying, flaring, cupping) of the long bones which is most notable in the proximal and distal femur, widening of the growth plates and coxa vera ( Figure 7 ). Anterior cupping, sclerosis, and splaying of the ribs is present in most affected individuals. Involvement of the metacarpals and phalanges is seen in childhood but may resolve with age. Vertebral anomalies may include platyspondyly and end plate irregularities. Metaphyseal dysplasia Spahr, is a rare skeletal dysplasia caused by AR mutations in the MMP13 gene (MIM 250400). The MMP13 gene encodes a matrix metalloprotease, MMP13, part of a family of proteases which are involved in turnover of the extracellular matrix and remodeling of the cartilage growth plates (55). Individuals typically present with postnatal bowing of the limbs causing disproportionate short stature which persists into adulthood. Varus deformities are common but are milder than in metaphyseal dysplasia Schmid. Knee pain is common. Radiographic findings include metaphyseal irregularities and areas of sclerosis ( 55 ). Metaphyseal anadysplasia (MIM 602111) is caused by AD mutations in the MMP13 gene and AR mutations in the MMP9 gene. Heterozygous pathogenic variants in MMP13 present during infancy with short stature, varus deformities of the lower extremities, rhizomelic micromelia, and metaphyseal changes in long bones ( 57 , 58 ). Vertebral and skull abnormalities are not present. Metaphyseal anadysplasia due to AR mutations in MMP9 typically present with a milder phenotype ( 58 ). Unlike the other skeletal dysplasias which are progressive throughout the lifespan, metaphyseal anadysplasia has a regressive course, with resolution of radiologic changes between 3-6 years of age. Short stature can persist into adulthood, though normal adult height is described in milder phenotypes ( 59 - 61 ). In summary, it is important to consider skeletal dysplasias in the differential diagnosis of children who present with atypical rickets manifestations or clinical course. Alkaline phosphatase is typically elevated in rickets but is normal in skeletal dysplasias. Genetic testing should be considered in individuals whose
