Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


mildly shortened. Early onset arthritis, often requiring joint replacement, is seen in the second and third decades of life ( 65 ). Radiographic findings include delayed ossification of the epiphyses of long, tubular bones, epiphyseal abnormalities seen most often in the knees and hips ( Figure 9 ). Schmorl bodies and irregular vertebral end plates are described ( 65 ). Autosomal dominant forms are caused by COL9A1, COL9A2, COL9A3, COMP, and MATN3. CANT1 is a cause of autosomal recessive MED ( 66 ). Figure 9. Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia. Flattened epiphyses, normal spine (no platyspondyly). Reproduced from https://www.endotext.org/chapter/skeletal-dysplasias (January 2017). Stickler syndrome is a connective tissue disorder which is characterized by characteristic facial features (malar hypoplasia, broad or flat nasal bridge, micro- or retrognathia), cleft palate, ocular abnormalities (high myopia, vitreous abnormalities, cataracts, and/or retinal abnormalities) Sensorineural and conductive hearing loss is common. Children experience joint pain during childhood and adults have early-onset degenerative joint disease. Autosomal recessive forms caused by biallelic pathogenic variants in COL9A1, COL9A2, COL9A3 account for < 1% of total cases ( 67 ). Please refer to Group 2 for a detailed discussion of AD Stickler syndrome. Lowry Wood syndrome is a MED with associated microcephaly and intellectual disability. Common clinical findings include intrauterine growth restriction, short stature, congenital nystagmus, retinitis pigmentosa, elbow contractures, and joint dislocations ( 68 ). SHOX (Short stature HOmeoboX-Containing Gene)- Related Skeletal Dysplasias The SHOX gene is in the short arm autosomal region (PAR1) of the X and Y chromosomes. Like other genes in this region, it escapes X-inactivation and is therefore present in two active forms in both males and female ( 69 ). In situ hybridization analyses of human embryos has shown that SHOX is expressed in the first and second pharyngeal arches and in the developing limbs ( 70 ). SHOX also acts as nuclear transcription factor that inhibits cellular growth and apoptosis in osteogenic cell lines, highlighting its role in bone development ( 71 , 72 ). The phenotypic spectrum of SHOX haploinsufficiency ranges from idiopathic short stature (without mesomelia or Madelung deformity) on the mild end of the spectrum to Leri-Weill dyschondrosteosis on the severe end of the spectrum. SHOX haploinsufficiency is estimated to account for 2-3% of cases of idiopathic short stature (ISS). SHOX disorders follow a pseudo-autosomal dominant manner of inheritance. Genes in the PAR1 (short arm) and PAR2 (long arm) region are not sex
