Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


of cases of idiopathic short stature (ISS). SHOX disorders follow a pseudo-autosomal dominant manner of inheritance. Genes in the PAR1 (short arm) and PAR2 (long arm) region are not sex linked as they are present on both X and Y chromosomes. Therefore, a SHOX pathogenic variant can be located on either the X or Y chromosome of an affected male and either of the X chromosomes of an affected female. A child of an individual carrying a pathogenic variant in SHOX has a 50% chance of inheriting the variant. If both parents have SHOX haploinsufficiency, offspring have a 50% chance of having a SHOX haploinsufficiency disorder, a 25% chance of having Langer-type mesomelic dwarfism, and 25% chance of being unaffected( 73 ). Leri-Weill dyschondrosteosis (LWD, MIM 127300) is characterized by short stature (height <3 rd %), mesomelia (disproportionate shortening of the middle portion of the limbs), and Madelung wrist deformity. Rhizomelic limb shortening can be seen in rare instances ( 74 ). Individuals typically present with normal length at birth with growth failure during early childhood ( 22 , 75 ). The pubertal growth spurt is blunted, further exacerbating short stature. The mean adult height is -2.2 SDS ( 76 ). Other features of LWD include hypertrophy of calf muscles, shortened fourth metacarpals, increased carrying angle of the elbow, high-arched palate, scoliosis, and elevated BMI ( 22 , 77 ). Langer mesomelic dysplasia (LMD, MIM 249700) is a severe skeletal dysplasia which results from biallelic (homozygous or compound heterozygous) pathogenic SHOX variants and SHOX nullizygosity ( 78 , 79 ). This disorder was first described by Leonard Langer in 1967 ( 80 ). LMD is characterized by severe limb aplasia or severe hypoplasia of the of the ulna and fibula, thickened curved radius and tibia, and hypoplasia of the mandible ( 81 , 82 ). Madelung deformity is typically not seen in LMD. Fukami et al. described 15 cases of LMD with final adult heights ranging from -4.2 to -8.9 SDS ( 83 ). Assessment of mesomelia can be done by measuring an extremity-to-trunk ratio or a sitting height-to-height ratio. The extremity-to-trunk ratio is the sum of the arm span and calculated leg length divided by the sitting height. A value less than 1.95 + 0.5 x height (metric) indicates shortened arms and legs ( 84 ). A sitting height-to-height ratio > 2 SDS is also suggestive of SHOX haploinsufficiency
