Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


value less than 1.95 + 0.5 x height (metric) indicates shortened arms and legs ( 84 ). A sitting height-to-height ratio > 2 SDS is also suggestive of SHOX haploinsufficiency ( 85 ). Madelung wrist deformity is characterized by dorsal subluxation of the distal ulna leading to a lateral “dinner fork” appearance of the wrist. This finding typically develops in mid-to late childhood and presents with decreased pronation and supination of the forearm. Subtle radiographic findings may be present prior to abnormal physical exam findings. Radiographic abnormalities include triangulation of the distal epiphysis of the radius, early fusion of the ulnar half of the distal epiphysis of the radius with lucency at the distal ulnar border, decreased length, and a dorsal ulnar curve. The ulna may have decreased length, dorsal subluxation, and triangular appearance of the epiphysis ( 73 ). There are also changes in alignment and function of the carpal bones, with proximal migration of the lunate ( 86 ). Children with SHOX haploinsufficiency should be offered treatment with recombinant human growth hormone therapy at a dose of 50 µg/kg/day (0.35 mg/kg/week). A prospective, randomized controlled trial showed that height SD score gain was similar in patients with Turner syndrome and SHOX deficiency ( 87 ). Osteogenesis Imperfecta Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a genetically and clinically heterogenous disease with an incidence of 1 in 15,000 to 1 in 20,000. In recent years, there has been a broader understanding of the disease as a ‘collagen-related disorder’ with the discovery of genes involved in collagen folding, post-translational modification, intracellular trafficking and osteoblast differentiation ( 88 ). The 2023 Nosology of Skeletal Disorders re-classifies osteogenesis imperfecta according to an expanded version original ‘Sillence’ Classification, first described in 1978: Type I: Dominantly inherited OI with Blue Sclerae Type II: Perinatally lethal OI Type III: Progressively deforming OI Type IV: Dominantly Inherited OI with Normal Sclerae In the 2023 Nosology, 40 of the 770 entities are distinct forms of OI. The categorization of OI is based on broader phenotypic description and gene-based categorization allows for a precise understanding of the genetic basis for the disease. This also helps to distinguish OI from other disorders which may present with bone fragility ( 23 ). For a detailed discussion regarding clinical manifestations and treatment options, the reader is referred to the EndoText Chapter on this topic which can be found at: https://www.endotext.org/chapter/osteogenesis-imperfecta/ . Osteopetrosis Osteopetrosis (OP),
