Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


a detailed discussion regarding clinical manifestations and treatment options, the reader is referred to the EndoText Chapter on this topic which can be found at: https://www.endotext.org/chapter/osteogenesis-imperfecta/ . Osteopetrosis Osteopetrosis (OP), commonly referred to as “marble bone disease” due to the dense, stone-like appearance of the affected bones ( 89 ), encompasses a heterogeneous group of rare skeletal disorders characterized by increased bone density secondary to either osteoclast paucity (osteoclast poor) due to osteoclast precursor cell defects, or, defective osteoclast-mediated bone resorption (osteoclast rich) caused by genetic mutations which interfere in the signaling function within the osteoclast, including acidification of lacunae for bone resorption( 23 , 90 ). The 2023 Nosology categorizes these disorders as “Osteopetrosis and Related Osteoclast Disorders”. Collectively, these disorders interfere with bone remodeling resulting in excessive bone formation which causes bone deformities due to the loss of normal bone architecture. Additionally, affected individuals have a high fracture risk due to inherent bone brittleness. Dental anomalies with ensuing dental disease are frequently noted in these disorders ( 23 , 90 ). The severe “malignant” forms of osteopetrosis occur in the first year of life and cause significant morbidity due to bone marrow failure, cranial nerve compression, fragility fractures, and recurrent infections. Some forms are syndromic. Several of the OP variants are incompletely described due to the very limited number of identified individuals. Recognizing OP and distinguishing it from other disorders is crucial for early diagnosis and management ( 23 , 90 , 91 ). The prevalence of AR forms of OP is collectively estimated at 1:200,000-250,000, while the AD forms have a much higher estimated prevalence of 1:20,000. Most forms of AD OP are described as causing moderate bone disease and tend to present in childhood-adulthood. They are generally less severe than AR osteopetrosis but can also vary in presentation( 90 ). CLCN7 and PLEKHM1 are currently the only known genes to cause both AR and AD osteopetrosis ( 90 , 92 - 94 ). IKBKG is an X-linked gene known to cause a hemizygous variant of osteopetrosis ( 95 ). The clinical manifestations of OP depend upon the severity of the subtype ( 89 , 90 ). Malignant neonatal/infantile OP typically presents in the first year of life with nearly all cases resulting from AR variants affecting osteoclast number or function ( 90 ). Fifty percent of these cases are due to variants in TC1RG1( 90 ,
