Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


precursors. Osteoclast Rich AR pathogenic variants of CLCN7, a protein-chloride exchange transporter which maintains acid-base balance between the osteoclast and bone lacunae, and TCIRG1, a vacuolar proton pump necessary for acidification of bone lacunae for bone resorption, cause eighty percent of cases of ‘osteoclast rich’ osteopetrosis ( 23 , 90 , 93 , 94 ). Separate centers have also reported compound heterozygous pathogenic variants of CLCN7 and TCIRG1 in small numbers of individuals who inherited a different mutation of the same gene from each parent ( 92 , 94 ). OSTM1 is a stabilizing subunit of CLCN7, which together with TCIRG1 and CA2 , regulate osteoclast pH and lacunae resorption ( 90 ). SNX10 and PLEKHM1 are necessary for osteoclast endosomal lysosomal trafficking and SLC29A3 codes for the ENT3 protein which transports nucleosides across both lysosomal and mitochondrial membranes ( 90 ). AR mutations in these genes are very rarely reported to cause osteopetrosis ( 90 , 97 , 98 ). Other rare genetic variants causing AR osteopetrosis include FERMT3 (KINDLIN3), LRRK1 (leucine-rich repeat kinase 1), and MiTF (microphthalmia-associated transcription factor), which together with integrin and other factors, helps to make the ruffled border of the osteoclast ( 97 , 98 ). MiTF is necessary for signal transduction in a variety of tissues, including bone ( 99 ). Two probands who were compound heterozygous for a recessive mutation in one MiTF allele, and a dominant negative mutation in the other, were noted to have COMMAD (Coloboma, Osteopetrosis, Microphthalmia, Macrocephaly, Albinism, Deafness) syndrome ( 99 ). MiTF is, interestingly, not listed in the Nosology of Genetic Skeletal Disorders: 2023 Revision. Additionally, pathogenic AR variants in CTSK, the gene which produces cathepsin K, prevents normal synthesis of collagenase which is required for proteolytic cleavage in bone resorption and remodeling ( 97 , 98 ). There is a single case report regarding a female with a pathogenic AR variant in solute carrier family 4 member 2 gene ( SLC4A2) causing osteopetrosis. This gene encodes for anion exchanger 2 (AE2) protein, a membrane transported that facilitates exchange of chloride and bicarbonate across the cell member. This process plays a crucial role in maintaining intracellular pH, regulating cell volume, and regulation of osteoclast function. Mutations in this gene cause impaired anion exchange from the ruffled osteoclast border which affects osteoclast maturation ( 100 ). Pathogenic X-linked hemizygous variants in IKBKG associated with osteopetrosis are part
