Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


in this gene cause impaired anion exchange from the ruffled osteoclast border which affects osteoclast maturation ( 100 ). Pathogenic X-linked hemizygous variants in IKBKG associated with osteopetrosis are part of the OLEDAID (Osteoporosis, lymphedema, anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia with immunodeficiency) syndrome affecting males. These individuals develop immunodeficiency in early infancy or the first years of life with susceptibility to bacterial (particularly pneumococcus and mycobacteria) and fungal infections. Individuals also have features of ectodermal dysplasia, and in severe cases, can develop lymphedema, osteopetrosis, and hematologic abnormalities ( 101 ). The Nosology of Genetic Skeletal Disorders: 2023 Revision documents that the RASGRP2 gene is associated with moderate AR osteopetrosis and a defect in platelet adhesion ( 23 ). A single case of a newborn with osteopetrosis solely based on a single radiology report from when the child was 20 days old was reported in 2008. The child died at 18 months-of age because of faulty platelet adhesion causing bleeding complications ( 102 ). Pathologic variants of RASGRP2 have since been exclusively described in the spectrum of bleeding disorders. Therefore, this gene is not included in Table 7 or Figure 10 . Osteoclast Poor Hematopoietic stem cells are osteoclast precursors. The differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells into osteoclast precursors and osteoclasts is complex. Figure 10 represents a simplified version of the process. Currently, only pathogenic variants of TNFRSF11A (RANK), TNFRSF11 (RANKL), or CSFIR (CSF1R) are associated with AR osteoclast poor osteopetrosis causing malignant osteopetrosis of the neonate. Mutated RANK, RANKL, of CSFIR proteins halt precursor differentiation into mature osteoclasts. For this section, the reader should appreciate that RANK, RANKL, and CSF1R are only a few of the proteins involved in the process of osteocyte differentiation. For a detailed discussion regarding osteoclastogenesis, the reader is referred to the EndoText Chapter on this topic which can be found at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK279149/ . Figure 10. Differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells into osteoclasts. Created in BioRender. Hecht Baldauff, N. (2026) https://BioRender.com/mwfd60i . CLINICAL PRESENTATION OF OSTEOPETROSIS Growth failure and developmental delay Macrocephaly and frontal bossing Hepatosplenomegaly due to extramedullary hematopoiesis Pancytopenia: anemia, thrombocytopenia, and neutropenia due to marrow space obliteration and/or syndromic genetic mutation Recurrent infections, especially due to immune suppression Increased bone fragility and high risk for fracture, radiologic sclerosis and bone deformities Cranial nerve and brainstem compression: vision loss, hearing impairment, facial palsy, respiratory compromise. Delayed tooth eruption and dental malformations Hypocalcemia with secondary hyperparathyroidism. This
