Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


fracture, radiologic sclerosis and bone deformities Cranial nerve and brainstem compression: vision loss, hearing impairment, facial palsy, respiratory compromise. Delayed tooth eruption and dental malformations Hypocalcemia with secondary hyperparathyroidism. This occurs due to calcium trapped within bone because of a paucity of either osteoclasts or osteoclastic dysfunction. It is more commonly seen in patients with AR TCIRG1 mutations because this gene is also responsible for chief cell gastric acidification. Syndromic forms ( Table 7 ) may present with neurodegeneration causing developmental delays/seizures, optic atrophy, immunoglobulin and other immune deficiencies, ocular defects, sensorineural hearing loss, albinism, or renal tubular acidosis (RTA) ( 90 ). EVALUATION AND TREATMENT Early diagnosis of OP is critical for management, especially in severe forms that may benefit from the curative treatment of allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). The evaluation should start with imaging. Plain radiographs may show diffuse osteosclerosis, ‘bone within bone’ appearance, ‘Erlenmeyer flask’ appearance, and skull base thickening ( Figure 11 ). Computed tomography (CT)/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) should be performed if there are concerns for cranial nerve entrapment. Laboratory evaluation should include a CBC with differential, comprehensive metabolic panel (which includes calcium and albumin), phosphorus, parathyroid hormone (PTH), 25-hydroxy Vitamin D, and spot or 24-hour urine calcium and creatinine ( 90 , 91 ). High lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and creatinine kinase BB isoenzymes (CK-BB) may be seen in osteopetrosis caused by CLCN7 mutations ( 90 ) It is also important to rule out other disorders when considering a diagnosis of OP ( Table 8 ) ( 90 ). Table 8. Differential Diagnosis in the Workup of Suspected Osteopetrosis View in own window Condition Distinguishing Features Hypoparathyroidism Hypocalcemia, tetany, increased bone density due to decreased bone turnover Fluorosis High fluoride exposure history; mottled teeth and osteosclerosis Heavy Metal Poisoning Lead lines on X-ray, neurocognitive symptoms, elevated blood lead levels Myeloproliferative Disorders Osteosclerosis secondary to hematologic malignancy Sclerosing Bone Dysplasia (e.g., osteopoikilosis, melorheostosis); localized changes and asymptomatic Transient Osteosclerosis of Infancy May be secondary to environmental trigger, transient, underreported. Figure 11. Osteopetrosis. thick dense bones, alternating bands of sclerosis and normal density bone in long bones, rugger jersey spine, dense base of skull. Reproduced from https://www.endotext.org/chapter/skeletal-dysplasias (January 2017). Supportive management includes blood transfusion when the hemoglobin is ≤ 7 g/dL and antibiotics for management of recurrent infections. Interferon γ-1b has been used in malignant OP of infancy. Multidisciplinary care is often needed and may
