Skeletal Dysplasias
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dysplasia, short, skeletal, bone, height, growth, osteopetrosis, disorders, free, stature, short stature, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free


the hemoglobin is ≤ 7 g/dL and antibiotics for management of recurrent infections. Interferon γ-1b has been used in malignant OP of infancy. Multidisciplinary care is often needed and may include immunology and infectious disease for management of immunocompromised patients, orthopedic surgery for fracture management, neurosurgery for cranial nerve decompression, and nephrology for cases of CA2 - related OP causing RTA and nephrolithiasis ( 90 , 97 ). Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is the only curative treatment for neonatal/infantile osteopetrosis, which have a high mortality without treatment. HSCT replaces defective osteoclasts with donor derived functional cells and is most effective when done before one year of age ( 103 ). HSCT is contraindicated in forms caused by TNFRSF11 ( RANKL) mutations (osteoclast-poor) because transplanted cells won’t produce RANKL( 103 ). Patients with OP due to mutations in OSTM1 and CLCN7 have not responded well to HSCT due to continued progression of neurological disease ( 104 ). Interferon gamma-1b is under investigation for mild-moderate osteopetrosis as it enhances macrophage and osteoclast activity. It may also improve bone marrow function in mild to moderate cases ( 105 ). Gene therapy, using lentiviral-mediated delivery of TCIRG1 in autologous hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells may be a promising future approach ( 106 ). RANKL infusion studies in mice show good response to osteoclast-genesis ( 107 ). Other Forms of Skeletal Dysplasia with Endocrine Manifestations ALBRIGHT HEREDITARY OSTEODYSTROPHY Under the 2023 International Nosology, Albright hereditary osteodystrophy (AHO) is subsumed within the dyadically named GNAS‑related dysplasia (AD; GNAS; MIM 103580). Both pseudohypoparathyroidism, type 1a (PHP1A) and pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism (PPHP) are recognized as allelic presentations distinguished by imprinting and hormonal resistance but together comprise this molecularly defined entity. Additional information can be found in the chapter entitled, “Hypoparathyroidism and Pseudohypoparathyroidism.” https://www.endotext.org/chapter/hypoparathyroidism-and-pseudohypoparathyroidism/ . CAMPOMELIC DYSPLASIA Campomelic Dysplasia, SOX9- related (AD, MIM 114290) is a single dyadic entity that encompasses the classical lethal phenotype as well as acampomelic campomelic dysplasia (ACD), mild campomelic dysplasia (MIM 602196), ischio-pubic-patellar dysplasia, and some cases of isolated Pierre–Robin sequence. SRY-related HMG-box gene 9 (SOX9) is a transcription factor involved in both skeletal development and sex determination. To date, there is no consensus regarding clinical criteria required for the diagnosis. In part, this is due to the rarity of this condition, with approximately only 100 patients described in the medical literature ( 108 ). Radiographic findings include eleven pairs of ribs, short, bowed limbs
