Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


ABSTRACT Pancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms (PNENs) are a heterogenous group of relatively rare pancreatic malignancies with a unique biology and pathophysiology. Over the last few years, there have been significant improvements in imaging and treatment strategies, which have led to advances in patient’s management and quality of life (QOL). Yet, in practice, there are still a number of unanswered questions. For example, it remains a challenge to choose the optimal treatment sequence from the plethora of options and to properly monitor PNEN patients. Therefore, in this chapter, recent advances in the pathophysiology, diagnosis, monitoring, and management of these neoplasms will be summarized and placed in a historical context. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Pancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms (PNENs) are an uncommon subset of neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs) originating from endocrine cells ( 1 - 3 ). PNENs represent 1-2% of all pancreatic neoplasms and according to the Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) program, the annual age-adjusted incidence has risen from 0.32/100,000 persons in 2004 to 0.48/100,000 persons in 2021 ( 2 , 4 - 7 ). Improvements in and a wider availability of high-quality imaging techniques and a well-established classification system are believed to be major factors in the increasing incidence of PNENs ( 5 , 8 , 9 ). PNENs can be divided into both functional (10-40%) and non-functional (60-90%) neoplasms ( 2 , 6 , 7 , 10 , 11 ). Functional PNENs (F-PNENs) are characterized by a specific clinical course and symptoms due to excessive hormone production (e.g., insulin, gastrin) ( 10 - 12 ). The most frequent, recognized F-PNENs are listed in Table 1 ( 1 ). Less common F-PNENs include somatostatinomas, ACTHomas and PNENs that cause carcinoid syndrome, acromegaly, or hypercalcemia ( 2 ). Patients with non-functional PNENs (NF-PNENs) lack symptoms related to clinical hormonal syndromes and are therefore usually diagnosed at a more advanced stage with characteristically large primary tumors (70% >5 cm) and liver metastasis in more than 60% of the cases ( 2 , 9 , 12 , 13 ). NF-PNENs are hence frequently discovered by chance on imaging studies performed due to nonspecific abdominal pain, often caused by tumor bulk ( 2 , 9 , 12 , 14 ). Although NF-PNENs do not secrete peptides causing clinical syndromes, they characteristically secrete a number of other peptides including chromogranin A (CgA)
