Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


( 2 , 9 , 12 , 14 ). Although NF-PNENs do not secrete peptides causing clinical syndromes, they characteristically secrete a number of other peptides including chromogranin A (CgA) and pancreatic polypeptide (PP). However, elevated levels of PP or CgA are not specific for NF-PNENs as they are also observed in patients with renal failure and inflammatory conditions ( 2 , 9 , 12 - 14 ). Table 1. Overview of Recognized Functional PNENs and Their Characteristics View in own window Tumor [syndrome] Hormone Clinical symptoms Biochemical diagnosis Insulinoma [Whipple’s triad] Insulin Hypoglycemia At hypoglycemia: Insulin > 6 µU/L Glucose 40 mg/dL C-peptide 0.6 ng/mL Proinsulin ≥ 20 pmol/L Gastrinoma [Zollinger-Ellison] Gastrin Abdominal pain, Gastroesophageal reflux, Diarrhea, Duodenal ulcers Serum fasting gastrin level ≥ 10 times normal range VIPoma [Verner-Morrison] Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) Severe watery diarrhea, Hypokalemia Fasting serum VIP > 60 pmol/L Glucagonoma Glucagon Rash, Glucose intolerance (diabetes), Necrolytic migratory erythema, Weight loss Fasting glucagon > 500 pg/mL Note: This table was assembled based on information from Gastroenterology, Metz D. and Jensen R., Gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumors: Pancreatic Endocrine tumors, 1469-1492 © 2008 ( 2 ) and World Journal of Gastroenterology, Ma Z., Gong Y., Zhuang H. et al., Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors: A review of serum biomarkers, staging and management, 2305-2322 © 2020 ( 7 ) and Current Opinion in Gastroenterology, Perri G., Prakash L. and Katz M., Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, 468-477 © 2019 ( 3 ). CLASSIFICATION AND STAGING The World Health Organization (WHO) classification from 2019 ( Table 2 ) takes into account both differentiation status and proliferation rate of the tumor. The former is determined through a histological examination of tumor morphology in which well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) can be distinguished from poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinomas (NECs). A grade is then assigned based on the proliferation rate assessed via Ki-67 index and mitotic count. Well-differentiated NETs can be divided into low grade (G1), intermediate grade (G2), and high grade (G3) tumors that have respective Ki-67 values of <3%, 3-20%, and >20% or mitotic counts of <2, 2-20, and >20 per 2mm 3 (10 high power fields (HPF)). In the poorly-differentiated NEC group (small and large cell types), only high grade G3 tumors with a Ki-67 value >20 are found. In addition, neoplasms exist that consist of neuroendocrine cells as well as non-neuroendocrine adenocarcinoma or squamous carcinoma cells (i.e., mixed non-neuroendocrine-neuroendocrine neoplasms (MiNEN)) ( 3 ,
