Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


th edition of the AJCC/UICC, the classification system of ENETS was implemented ( 21 ). Two research groups demonstrated that the system employed in this 8 th edition was superior to that of the 7 th edition as well as the ENETS staging system and should be considered as golden standard ( 20 , 22 ). INDUCTION OF PNENS PNENs are also often referred to as islet cell tumors since it is presumed that they arise from the islets of Langerhans ( 3 , 23 , 24 ). These islets contain A-, B-, D-, D 1 -, and D 2 -cells that respectively secrete glucagon, insulin, somatostatin, pancreatic polypeptide, and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) ( 25 ). Logically, the F-PNENs most definitely arise from these cells, but the cell of origin in NF-PNENs is still a matter of debate ( 26 , 27 ). Chan et al. revealed that NF-PNENs with ATRX , DAXX, and MEN1 mutations (A-D-M mutant) had a worse clinical outcome than A-D-M wild-type (WT) tumors. In addition, they were able to demonstrate, through RNA sequencing and DNA methylation analysis, that the A-D-M mutant PNENs had high ARX and low PDX1 expression which is consistent with the expression profile found in α-cells ( 28 ). Cejas et al. found that NF-PNENs could be divided into two subgroups with epigenomes and transcriptomes very similar to those of α- and β-cells, respectively ( 29 ). These findings were confirmed by Di Domenico and colleagues who were able to demonstrate that the genome-wide DNA methylation profiles of NF-PNENs were very consistent with the methylation profiles of α- and β-cells ( 24 ). Based on these findings, it was hypothesized that NF-PNENs evolve primarily but not exclusively from the α-cell lineage and β-cell lineage ( 27 ). Figure 1. Visualization of the pancreatic duct glandular structures (PDGs) (arrowheads) in (A) large and (B) small ducts using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). PDGs can occur as single outpouches or form a complex of sac-like dilatations as illustrated in (C). This figure has been adapted from Gastroenterology, Strobel O., Rosow D. E., Rakhlin E. Y., et al., Pancreatic duct glands are distinct ductal compartments that react to chronic injury and mediate Shh-induced metaplasia, 138 ( 3 ): 1166-77 © 2010 ( 30 ). Others in turn suggest that PNENs develop from multipotent pancreatic progenitor (MPP) cells in the ductal and islet regions of the
