Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


( 3 ): 1166-77 © 2010 ( 30 ). Others in turn suggest that PNENs develop from multipotent pancreatic progenitor (MPP) cells in the ductal and islet regions of the pancreas that would be able to generate new pancreatic islet cells ( 31 , 32 ). However, it remains unclear whether these cells originate in the islets or whether they migrate from the pancreatic ducts to subsequently transform into endocrine cells ( 33 ). This hypothesis is strengthened by the fact that early endocrine progenitors in fact appear to originate from a bipotent ductal endocrine progenitor, which in turn originates from MPP cells ( 34 ). However, not a lot is known about where these MPP cells are present. One hypothesis states these could be present in the pancreatic duct glandular structures (PDGs) that can be found as specialized compartments with a gland-like outpouching look ( Figure 1 ) in the ductal epithelium ( 30 , 35 ). The actual origin and location of the MPP that can evolve into islet cells is not known to date and thus needs to be further investigated for a better understanding of the potential origin of PNENs. MOLECULAR (EPI)GENETICS Genetic Syndromes Although PNENs typically occur sporadically, approximately 10-20% of them develop in the context of hereditary syndromes. The syndrome most at risk for PNEN development is Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia (MEN1) (60%), an autosomal dominant disease caused by inactivating mutations in the MEN1 gene ( 10 , 36 - 39 ). MEN1 is a tumor suppressor gene located on chromosome 11q13 that encodes for the nuclear protein menin which plays an important role in the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway, histone modifications, DNA repair mechanisms, and cell cycle control ( 10 , 37 , 38 , 40 , 41 ). In addition, 5 to 18% of the patients with von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) syndrome develop PNENs. These patients carry a germline mutation in the VHL gene located on the short arm of chromosome 3. The VHL protein can be found in different complexes that mediate ubiquitin-mediated degradation and stimulate angiogenesis ( 10 , 42 , 43 ). Other hereditary syndromes at risk include Tuberous Sclerosis (TS) and neurofibromatosis type 1, caused by mutations in TSC1 , TSC2 and NF1 , respectively ( 36 - 39 ) . Sporadic PNENS Through next-generation sequencing of PNENs, it became apparent that there are distinct genetic differences, strongly depending on differentiation and
