Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


NF1 , respectively ( 36 - 39 ) . Sporadic PNENS Through next-generation sequencing of PNENs, it became apparent that there are distinct genetic differences, strongly depending on differentiation and functionality of the tumor ( 36 ). For example, genetic analyses of F-PNENs revealed that insulinomas are often characterized by a hotspot mutation (p. T372R) in the Yin Yang 1 ( YY1 ) gene in 30% of the Asian and 8-33% of the Western/Caucasian population ( 10 , 36 , 44 ). This recurrent mutation is located in the DNA binding domain of YY1 , hence strongly affecting the DNA binding capacity of this transcriptional activator/repressor ( 44 ). In NF-PNENs, on the other hand, somatic mutations were most commonly identified in MEN1 (44.1%) followed by DAXX (25%) and ATRX (17.6%) ( 41 ). Atrx interacts with DNA methyltransferases (DNMT) 3A and 3L to form the Atrx-DNMT3A-DNMT3L (ADD) complex. This interaction is crucial for maintenance of histone methylation patterns in newly replicated chromatin, hence indirectly ensures correct gene expression. Moreover, Atrx also interacts directly with Daxx. In doing so, Daxx functions as a kind of chaperone for the deposition of histone variant H3.3 at the level of CpG islands, telomeric and ribosomal repeats and the rest of the genome. Consequently, a loss of ATRX and DAXX results in changes in DNA methylation patterns throughout the genome ( 45 ). In addition, mutations in PTEN , TSC2, and PIK3CA have already been reported in respectively 7.8%, 8.8% and 1.4% of PNENs, and they all affect the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway ( 41 ). Later, Scarpa and colleagues identified mutations in DNA repair genes MUTYH , CHEK2, and BRCA2 as well ( 39 ). Distinct genetic differences could also be observed between G3 pancreatic NETs (PNETs) and pancreatic NECs (PNECs). The latter do not carry mutations in the known genes for PNETs ( MEN1 , DAXX, and ATRX ), but instead appear to have mutations in TP53 , RB1 , KRAS, and CDKN2A/p16 ( 10 , 36 , 38 ). Considering that these mutations tend to result in altered protein expression, IHC might facilitate in distinguishing PNETs from PNECs, which have similar Ki-67 values. Nevertheless, results should always be interpreted with caution ( 10 , 36 , 46 ). Besides point mutations, copy number alterations (CNAs) have also attracted attention. CNA patterns that were frequently identified included whole or partial loss of chromosomes 1,
