Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


, 36 , 46 ). Besides point mutations, copy number alterations (CNAs) have also attracted attention. CNA patterns that were frequently identified included whole or partial loss of chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 10, 11, 15, 16, 21 and 22, while gains have been observed in chromosomes 5, 7, 12,14 and 17 ( 10 ). Moreover, PNENs appear to display very specific CNA patterns that allow to distinguish PNENs from the more common PAADs. Boons and colleagues therefore developed a classification model, based on tumor tissue, which demonstrated a sensitivity, specificity and area under the curve (AUC) of 100%, 95% and 100% in the validation cohort ( 47 ). Benign insulinomas tend to display lower rates of CNAs ( 36 ). Since genes such as MEN1 , DAXX and ATRX are of importance in several epigenetic regulatory processes, it was extremely likely that also epigenetic alterations commonly occur in PNENs. In fact, both in hereditary and sporadic PNENs promotor hypermethylation is observed in tumor suppressor genes, which is associated with silencing of gene expression ( 10 , 48 ). Chan and colleagues checked whether methylation profiles and expression were different in the A-D-M mutated group versus the A-D-M WT group. They observed that both groups clustered in two separate clusters and even revealed that gene expression of the A-D-M mutated group was respectively high and low in the ARX and PDX1 gene and the latter gene also displayed hypermethylation. This profile appeared to be quite similar to that of α cells in the pancreas ( 28 ). These results were confirmed by Neiman et al., who observed high methylation levels in the PDX1 promotor region in α cells, while β cells tend to have low methylation in this region ( 49 ). Based on this PDX1 gene methylation, Boons and colleagues performed unsupervised hierarchical clustering and could subsequently observe two subpopulations, A and B, which respectively contained the α and β cells. Of note, the majority of the mutated PNENs was found in group A confirming the findings of Chan et al. ( 28 , 50 ). These results suggest that methylation profiling of the PDX1 gene could potentially help to divide PNENs into distinct clinically relevant groups that have different prognosis and risk of relapse ( 50 ). Recently, three subgroups (T1, T2 and T3) of PNENs have been identified, based on their methylation profile. Here, the T1
