Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


have different prognosis and risk of relapse ( 50 ). Recently, three subgroups (T1, T2 and T3) of PNENs have been identified, based on their methylation profile. Here, the T1 group consisted of the A-D-M WT tumors, while the T2 subgroup encompassed the A-D-M mutated tumors with recurrent chromosomal losses and methylation in the gene body of the MGMT gene. The last group, T3, displayed mutations in MEN1 and recurrent loss of chromosome 11. Tumors found in the latter group tend to have a better prognosis ( 51 ). DIAGNOSIS AND MONITORING The gold standard for diagnosing PNENs remains an immunohistochemical examination of the tumor tissue, but imaging and serum markers are also extremely important in the diagnostic process. The clinical presentation often determines the sequence of examinations. For example, patients with F-PNENs will usually undergo a biochemical blood analysis first based on their hormonal symptoms, whereas NF-PNENs are often detected by chance on imaging ( 25 , 52 , 53 ). Immunohistochemistry To correctly classify PNENs, tumor morphology and proliferation rates (Ki-67 and mitotic index) should be evaluated in tissue biopsies. These are usually obtained from surgical specimens, percutaneous core biopsies, or preoperative biopsies ( 52 , 54 , 55 ). The latter were mainly derived from endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) guided fine-needle aspirations (FNA) which, in recent years, have been increasingly replaced by fine-needle biopsies (FNB) as these enable histological tissue samples to be obtained, hence immunohistochemistry (IHC) to be performed ( 56 , 57 ). This immunohistochemical examination is most often initiated by confirming the neuroendocrine differentiation by checking CgA and synaptophysin (SYP) expression ( 52 , 54 ). Other markers such as neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and CD56 are less specific, hence less useful ( 58 ). Next, tumor morphology is assessed to determine whether the PNEN is well- or poorly-differentiated ( Figure 2 ). In general, well-differentiated PNENs are characterized by uniform cells with a finely granular cytoplasm and round to oval nucleus which are arranged in a trabecular, glandular, or tubuloacinar pattern ( 54 , 59 ). Moreover, typically all cells have a heterogeneous expression of CgA in their cytoplasm, whereas SYP stains more diffusely. Poorly-differentiated PNECs, on the other hand, consist of atypical neoplastic cells that often lack CgA and even SYP ( 59 , 60 ). Ultimately, tumors are graded by proliferation rate that is influenced by two parameters, Ki-67 and mitotic count. The
