Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


, 61 - 66 ). ANATOMIC IMAGING Anatomical imaging modalities such as Computed Tomography (CT) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) are capable of depicting normal and diseased tissue at high spatial resolution ( 67 ). Contrast enhanced CT is the most commonly used and preferred modality as it is widely available, renders clear anatomical images of the pancreas, lymph nodes, and liver metastasis and allows to assess vascular invasion and resectability ( 25 , 52 , 62 , 64 , 68 , 69 ). The more recent, multiphase multidetector CT scan exhibits even more advantages including reduced artifacts due to rapid scan time, improved arterial phase images due to accurate contrast medium tracking and improved resolution by generating thinner slices that can be studied in different anatomical planes ( 61 , 65 ). In addition, the frequent hypervascular nature of PNENs results in typical high contrast uptake in the arterial phase on CT which can aid in differentiating from pancreatic adenocarcinoma. The average sensitivity of contrast-enhanced CT varies from 63% to 83% and detection rates range from 69% to 94.3% ( 52 , 67 , 70 ). It appears that imaging of PNENs is often influenced by their biological heterogeneity. For example, gastrinoma become more apparent on postcontrast images and large NF-PNENs often have a necrotic or cystic appearance which tend to complicate diagnosis with imaging alone. In the latter case, MRI can be useful as cystic neoplasms can be better visualized due to the higher resolution, rendering MRI complementary to CT. MRI displays a similar sensitivity to CT (79%), but has some advantages over CT as it displays a good sensitivity even without administration of contrast agents, employs non-ionizing radiation, and is hence safer for patient follow-up ( 52 , 53 , 67 ). Limitations on the other hand include a higher frequency of motion-related artifacts as well as a longer acquisition time compared to CT ( 71 ). Still, both conventional imaging modalities depend to a large extent on the tumor size ( 2 , 25 , 61 , 72 , 73 ). More than 70% of PNENs larger than 3 cm are detected, but only 50% of PNENs smaller than 1 cm are identified. As a result, small primary PNENs, especially insulinoma and duodenal gastrinoma, are frequently missed as well as small liver metastases ( 2 , 25 , 61 , 62 , 72 - 74 ).
