Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


small primary PNENs, especially insulinoma and duodenal gastrinoma, are frequently missed as well as small liver metastases ( 2 , 25 , 61 , 62 , 72 - 74 ). For small PNENs, which cannot be detected using CT and MRI, EUS is considered the predominant imaging technique ( 68 ). Because of the high spatial resolution of this modality, it is possible to localize even very small lesions (2-3 mm) ( 3 , 74 ). Additionally, it is feasible to obtain high yield tissue samples by means of an FNA/B that can be used for Ki-67 measurements. Such EUS-FNA/B have a diagnostic accuracy of 80% for pancreatic adenocarcinoma and 46% for PNENs. In patients with proven insulinoma, EUS displays a sensitivity of 94% as a first-line modality. This renders EUS extremely valuable for localizing primary insulinoma ( 2 , 68 , 74 , 75 ). However, EUS is not generally available, can be technically challenging, and results are operator dependent. In the hands of an expert, sensitivities of 79 to 100% can be achieved ( 61 ). FUNCTIONAL IMAGING Prior to the development of the current functional imaging modalities, selective angiography and sampling for hormone gradients were employed. However, due to the highly invasive nature of these techniques, minimally invasive modalities were developed which had a great impact on patient management ( 2 , 53 , 64 ). Although PNENs exhibit highly heterogeneous biological behavior, 80-100% of PNENs, with the exception of insulinomas (50-70%), overexpress the G-linked protein somatostatin receptors (SSTRs), mainly subtypes SSTR-2 and -5. These receptors interact with somatostatin, a peptide hormone that affects neurotransmission and cell proliferation, but also the secretion of various compounds in the digestive system ( 2 , 52 , 62 - 64 , 67 , 76 ). Interestingly, these SSTRs also bind synthetic, radiolabeled somatostatin analogs (SSAs) with high affinity, which constitutes the basis of the primary functional imaging tool for PNENs, namely Somatostatin Receptor Imaging (SRI). SRI will not only allow to stage PNENs, but will also predictively identify patients eligible for SSA therapy ( 2 , 52 , 53 , 64 , 67 , 68 ). One of the first SSAs used to target the SSTRs was octreotide labeled with 111 Indium via chelator, diethylene-triamine-pentaaceticacid (DTPA). This 111 In-DTPA-octreotide emits gamma rays that are detected 24 hours after intravenous injection using Single Photon Emission CT (SPECT) or SPECT/CT, the so-called
