Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


Ga-DOTATOC PET in 2016 in the US, after being available in Europe for a number of years. Furthermore, with the development of an FDA approved 68 Ga generator, an on-site cyclotron is no longer required, making this technology more widely available. A multi-society workgroup has recommended that 68 Ga-DOTA-SSA PET replace use of Octreoscan®, unless it is not accessible, in combination with at least one anatomic imaging technique ( 66 , 70 ). Assessment Through Circulating Biomarkers As stated earlier, the current gold standard for diagnosing and molecularly profiling PNENs remains the analysis of surgical or biopsy tissue samples. However, these samples have a highly invasive character, rendering repetitive sampling unfeasible. Further limitations are the individual patients’ risk and procedural costs. Besides, they represent merely a snapshot of tumor heterogeneity, which strongly influences accuracy. Hence, liquid biopsies aroused strong interest since they form a cost-effective and minimally invasive way to analyze the tumor’s behavior. The most frequently used source is blood as it allows to examine the so-called tumor circulome that consists of a set of circulating components that originate from the tumor ( 97 - 101 ). These blood-based biomarkers play a pivotal role in diagnosing and staging PNENs, monitoring response to therapy, and detecting tumor progression. In case of F-PNENs, specific circulating biomarkers such as insulin, gastrin, and glucagon are employed in hormonal assays to correctly diagnose F-PNENs. Moreover, both F- and NF-PNENs frequently secrete non-specific markers including CgA, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), pancreastatin, etc., which can be detected in patients’ blood as well ( 2 , 9 , 13 , 52 , 53 , 55 , 102 ). Besides circulating proteins, PNENs also shed circulating tumor cells (CTCs), circulating tumor RNA (ctRNA) and DNA (ctDNA) which could serve as potential biomarkers ( 98 - 100 , 103 , 104 ). SPECIFIC BIOMARKERS AND HORMONAL ASSAYS Depending on the type of F-PNENs (outlined in Table 1 ), specific biochemical tests are performed. When insulinoma is suspected, serum levels of insulin and C-peptide are measured at a confirmed hypoglycemia during prolonged period of fasting (approximately 72 hours) as patients present with increased levels (> 6 µU/L and 0.6 ng/mL, respectively) even when glucose levels are low ( 7 , 31 , 52 , 53 , 104 ). In case of gastrinomas, the serum gastrin levels will be 10 times higher than the upper limit and gastric pH will be lower
