Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


biochemical markers as diagnosis is harder both clinically and by use of imaging techniques. Moreover, SSA treatment cause a decrease in CgA secretion, which is why results should always be interpret with caution ( 104 ). In terms of follow-up, prospective studies demonstrated that elevated CgA levels do not correlate with imaging and tumor progression, hence questioning the potential of CgA as follow-up biomarker ( 115 ). Compared to CgA, CgB is not impacted by for example proton pump inhibitor treatment ( 112 , 116 ). However, only in 25% of the cases with elevated CgA levels, CgB was elevated as well, thus routine estimation of CgB in all patients seemed not informatic in clinical practice ( 120 ). Neuron-Specific Enolase (NSE) NSE is a glycolytic enzyme expressed in the neuroendocrine cells of which levels can be elevated in PNEN patients, particularly those with a poorly-differentiated tumor ( 58 , 110 ). However, its clinical use is limited as a blood-based biomarkers for NETs because sensitivity and specificity are only 39-43% and 65-73% to distinguish NETs from non-NETs. Consequently, NSE is therefore inferior to CgA in clinical practice ( 17 , 110 , 121 ). When combined with CgA measurement, sensitivity improves and reliability of NET diagnoses increases. Moreover, elevated CgA/NSE levels appear to provide prognostic information on progression-free survival (PFS) and OS ( 7 , 102 , 122 ). Pancreastatin Pancreastatin, a post-translational processing product of CgA, is suggested to be a useful prognostic marker of NETs as pre-treatment levels > 500 pmol/L are an independent indicator of poor prognosis. Moreover, this marker is reported to correlate with the number of liver metastases and an increase in pancreastatin levels after treatment with SSAs is associated with poorer survival ( 52 , 123 ). For diagnosis of NETs, pancreastatin is less sensitive than CgA, but also less susceptible to non-specific elevation ( 52 , 121 ). Pancreatic Polypeptide (PP) PP is a hormone predominantly produced in pancreatic polypeptide cells, located in the head of the pancreas ( 7 , 17 , 109 , 124 ). When used alone, a sensitivity of 63% is achieved in PNENs, but when combined with CgA sensitivity increases to 94%, better than either marker alone ( 109 ). However, less than 50% of PNEN patients display elevated serum levels and increases do not correlate with tumor burden and/or aggressiveness ( 102 , 124 ). Moreover,
