Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


( 109 ). However, less than 50% of PNEN patients display elevated serum levels and increases do not correlate with tumor burden and/or aggressiveness ( 102 , 124 ). Moreover, there are several clinical conditions that can induce falsely elevated levels such as physical exercise, hypoglycemia, and food intake, whereas diarrhea, laxative abuse, high age, inflammatory processes and chronic renal disease could lead to a decrease ( 7 , 102 ). Other Protein-Based Markers Besides the above-mentioned markers, ProGRP and Neurokinin A can be used to further improve diagnostic and especially prognostic information. ProGRP in fact stimulates cell proliferation which is why increased levels are often associated with a more aggressive tumor and therefore worse prognosis ( 7 , 12 ). In addition, several markers were reported to be useful for the detection of bone metastases that can be either osteolytic or osteoblastic. Bone alkaline phosphatase (BAP) indicates osteoblast function, while urinary N-telopeptide reflects osteoclast activity or bone resorption. An increased osteoclast activity predicts a poor outcome ( 12 , 125 , 126 ). Circulating Tumor Cells (CTCs) CTCs have been investigated in a wide range of tumor types, and have gained increased interest in PNENs due to the limitations of the current circulating markers ( 98 - 100 , 104 , 121 , 127 , 128 ). The recently developed platform, CellSearch®, allows to detect and isolate CTCs based on expression of the epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM) on the cell membrane. EpCAM is a transmembrane epithelial glycoprotein that is overexpressed in adenocarcinoma, but recent studies ( 127 - 129 ) revealed EpCAM positivity in ileal, pancreatic, unknown primary, and gastric NETs as well. However, only 21-24% of the metastatic PNEN patients had detectable CTCs in the blood stream, which could potentially be explained by a slow shedding of CTCs or loss of EpCAM expression. Presence of CTCs was associated with increasing tumor burden and grade, while CgA failed to reveal this relationship. Changes in CTC levels were associated with treatment response and OS, revealing its potential as marker during treatment follow-up ( 127 , 129 ). Furthermore, presence of CTCs could distinguish between patients suffering from PNENs with and without bone metastases with an area under the curve (AUC) of 79% ( 130 ). A phase II PAZONET study, during which Pazopanib treatment was evaluated, even demonstrated that patients without baseline CTCs showed improved response and longer median
