Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


(AUC) of 79% ( 130 ). A phase II PAZONET study, during which Pazopanib treatment was evaluated, even demonstrated that patients without baseline CTCs showed improved response and longer median PFS ( 131 ). Contrarily, the CALM-NET phase IV study reported no notable effect of the presence of CTCs at baseline on PFS in patients treated with Lanreotide ( 132 ). Lastly, CTCs provide the opportunity to detect (epi)genetic alterations in PNENs through DNA and RNA extraction, but they can also be used to determine the SSTR status via immunohistochemistry which could facilitate therapeutic management ( 133 , 134 ). Circulating Tumor DNA (ctDNA) ctDNA is the fraction of cell-free DNA (cfDNA) that originates from the tumor and constitutes one of the most promising new markers. It provides a representation of the whole tumor and contains tumor-specific genetic and epigenetic alterations, which allow to distinguish healthy from tumoral DNA ( 98 - 100 , 104 , 135 ). However, ctDNA research regarding NENs is still in its infancy. Boons et al., published the first paper confirming the presence of ctDNA in the plasma of metastatic PNEN patients by looking for tumor-specific single nucleotide variants (SNVs) via custom digital droplet PCR (ddPCR). In patients with localized PNENs, ctDNA could not be detected ( 136 ). In the same study, they revealed a significant correlation between CNA profiles of PNEN tissue and ctDNA and demonstrated the feasibility to detect ctDNA using these profiles ( 136 ). These findings were exploited in a more recent study, where they performed a cfDNA CNA analysis in a cohort of 43 NEN patients. Using this analysis, ctDNA could be detected in 13 of the 21 PNEN patients. ctDNA positivity appeared to be significantly associated with higher WHO grade, location of the primary tumor and higher levels of CgA and NSE. Besides, a worse OS was observed in ctDNA-positive patients. In addition, they illustrated that CNA patterns in cfDNA could even assist in distinguishing PNENs from the more common PAADs. Moreover, the longitudinal tumor fraction (i.e., amount of ctDNA vs. total cfDNA) measurements were associated with PFS and could indicate tumor progression ( 47 ). MicroRNA (miRNAs) miRNAs are short noncoding RNAs (< 30 nucleotides) designated to regulate many processes including cell proliferation, apoptosis, and development ( 134 , 137 ), by inducing translational repression or degradation of certain mRNAs ( 138 ). In cancer, miRNA regulation
