Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


SSAs, PRRT, and surgery ( 144 - 147 ). For example, in a prospective analysis, performed by Modlin and colleagues, 35 pancreatic and small intestine NEN patients were included that all displayed elevated NETest levels prior to surgery, while only 14 of them had increased CgA levels. After tumor removal, the disease-activity scores reduced from 80 ± 5 to 29 ± 5 (p < 0.0001), whereas changes in CgA levels did not correlate with resection. Four of the 11 patients with complete tumor resection still presented increased NETest scores one month after surgery and showed positive evidence of recurrence 6 months post-surgery ( 144 ). Since 2013, the NETest has proven to perform better than the single analyte tests (e.g., CgA) and these results appeared to be highly robust and reproducible ( 103 , 140 , 142 ). However, a large independent validation study conducted in the Netherlands has revealed that the test is more sensitive, but less specific than CgA suggesting its suitability as a marker for disease follow-up, but not as a screening tool ( 147 ). This test is not affected by food intake or specific medication, is easy to use and available which all increases clinical utility ( 140 ). The NETest possess advantages from an economic point of view too. Identifying patients with molecularly stable disease (SD) could potentially lead to fewer use of imaging modalities. Moreover, by enabling faster identification of the clinical status than with imaging, ineffective therapies can be ceased more quickly with another obvious cost-benefit effect ( 140 , 142 ). Despite all advantages, NETest is currently not implemented in a clinical setting. Results of additional independent validation studies and other practical aspects such as costs and transparency will ultimately determine its integration in clinical practice. MANAGEMENT OF PNENS With a better understanding of the heterogeneity in PNENs, the number of treatment options has increased substantially over the years. Unfortunately, there is a lack of head-to-head comparison data. Therefore, treatment must be individualized considering the age and overall health of the patient, the specific toxicities of potential treatment(s), costs, and potential impact on quality of life (QOL). Consequently, decisions with regard to patient management must be made by an experienced, multidisciplinary team together with the primary care physician ( 52 ). Generally, the management of PNEN patients consists of a series of well-defined steps. These comprise of: 1) establishing a diagnosis,
