Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


team together with the primary care physician ( 52 ). Generally, the management of PNEN patients consists of a series of well-defined steps. These comprise of: 1) establishing a diagnosis, 2) determining localization and extent of tumor, 3) controlling hormone excess state in case of F-PNENs, 4) resecting tumor, if possible, 5) checking for presence of hereditary disease (MEN1), 6) treating advanced and metastatic PNENs, and 7) long-term monitoring for tumor progression ( 63 , 148 ). Figure 6. Possible treatment scheme for PNENs based on functionality and extent of the tumor. This figure has been adapted from Cancers, Akirov A., Larouche V., Alshehri S. et al., Treatment options for pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, 11 ( 6 ) © 2019 ( 149 ). It is crucial to consider grade/differentiation, stage/extent, and functional status of the tumor as different treatment schemes evolved based on these factors ( Figure 6 ). For example, surgery is usually advocated for PNENs that are functional, larger than 2 cm, or intermediate-to-high grade ( 3 , 8 , 52 ). For patients with metastatic disease, the treatment options are extensive and encompass surgical debulking, systemic therapies including chemotherapy, or targeted therapy such as liver-directed therapy and peptide receptor radionucleotide therapy (PRRT) ( 149 ). It is not unusual for the management plan to change based on treatment response and disease progression. Failure to respond to treatment or unexpected changes in the tempo of disease due to tumor dedifferentiation and tumor heterogeneity are well-described in PNENs. Accordingly, most patients will receive multiple treatments during the course of their disease, but there is no data on the optimal treatment sequence ( 52 , 105 ). The various treatment modalities are discussed below. Surgical Management Surgery continues to play a major role in the management of patients with PNENs as it remains the only potentially curative treatment for PNEN patients and it can alleviate clinical symptoms caused by excessive hormone production and tumor bulk ( 2 , 3 , 7 , 149 - 151 ). Furthermore, several studies revealed that patients who underwent surgical resection had a reduced risk of metastases as well as showed an improved disease-free survival (DFS) ( 152 , 153 ). Different approaches exist such as resection of the primary tumor and surrounding lymph node metastases through pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple procedure) and pancreatectomy (central or distal) as well as the more conservative methods including sparing enucleation and
