Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


resection of the primary tumor and surrounding lymph node metastases through pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple procedure) and pancreatectomy (central or distal) as well as the more conservative methods including sparing enucleation and wait-and-see observations ( 7 , 52 ). Choosing the appropriate approach depends on the extent and location of the tumor, the functional status as well as the presence or absence of metastases ( 52 , 150 , 154 - 156 ). Generally, surgery is recommended in patients with localized NF-PNENs. Besides the primary tumor, peritumoral metastases should be eradicated as well since nodal metastases occur in at least 30% of NF-PNEN patients which affect tumor grade, but more importantly DFS ( 157 , 158 ). Exceptions occur in patients with sporadic, low-grade (G1/G2) NF-PNENs smaller than 2 cm ( 3 , 8 , 52 , 149 , 150 , 154 - 156 ). For those patients, optimal management is controversial as some recommend surgical interventions such as enucleation, whereas others including the ENETS advocate a wait-and-see attitude due to the indolent nature of these tumors ( 3 , 8 , 52 , 148 - 150 , 159 , 160 ). A similar conservative approach is encouraged in MEN1 patients with NF-PNENs of 2 cm or smaller as these tend to have a low disease-specific mortality ( 161 ). Thakker and colleagues, on the other hand, suggest resection of NF-PNENs larger than 1 cm that demonstrate significant growth over 6 to 12 months ( 162 ). Surgical excision of the tumor is also recommended for patients with F-PNENs as these display high cure rates ( 2 , 13 , 149 , 163 - 165 ). The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines describe that insulinomas and gastrinomas are preferably removed by enucleation with peritumoral node dissection if the tumor is located in the head of the pancreas. Deeper, more invasive tumors are more appropriately eradicated by pancreaticoduodenectomy. The former strategy should also be applied for small peripheral glucagonomas and VIPomas. PNENs in the distal part of the pancreas, in turn, are ideally removed through distal pancreatectomy ( 149 ). Surgery for MEN1 patients with NF-PNENs and gastrinoma remains controversial as they often present with multiple primary tumors which renders curative surgery almost impossible. Aggressive resection of all PNENs smaller than 2 cm in MEN1 patients seems contra-indicated as several studies revealed that these patients rarely develop advanced disease and have a
