Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


almost impossible. Aggressive resection of all PNENs smaller than 2 cm in MEN1 patients seems contra-indicated as several studies revealed that these patients rarely develop advanced disease and have a good prognosis ( 2 , 18 , 75 , 165 - 167 ). The traditional surgical approach is open laparotomy as this allows thorough abdominal exploration including bimanual palpation and intraoperative ultrasound of the pancreas and liver ( 2 , 168 ). However, several studies reported that certain lesions in particular those amenable to enucleation or to distal pancreatectomy may be approached with laparoscopic or robotic techniques ( 169 ). Venkat and colleagues even demonstrated that patients who underwent laparoscopic resection had less blood loss and a lower overall complication rate, and were consequently permitted to leave the hospital sooner than patients who had had open pancreatic resection ( 170 ). Gastrinomas form an exception since palpation plays an important role in the detection of these often small malignancies. Moreover, 60-90% of these patients will have lymph node metastases in addition to the primary tumor ( 169 , 171 ). Adopting a purely laparoscopic approach to these tumors will depend upon improvements in haptic feedback technology. For tumors requiring a Whipple procedure both laparotomic and laparoscopic approaches are used in centers worldwide as the latter is still associated with technical difficulties. However, when performed by trained hepatobiliary or laparoscopic surgeons’ effectiveness and safety are similar and, in some cases, even superior to open surgery ( 168 , 171 ). In patients with distant metastases, surgical intervention remains important, although it may no longer result in cure ( 52 ). The most common site of distant metastasis is the liver since 46-93% of NET patients develop liver metastases which can lead to liver failure, a common cause of death ( 52 , 172 - 174 ). There are multiple options available for patients with hepatic metastases, including surgical resection which, in selected cases, appears to improve survival in uncontrolled series ( 157 ). The optimal approach depends on several factors including the extent of primary tumor and liver metastases, planned treatment as well as the age and overall health of the patient. Accordingly, the NCCN recommends complete resection (R0 resection) of primary tumor and liver metastases, if possible and otherwise consider tumor debulking ( 149 ). Aggressive resection of the primary tumor in the setting of liver metastases is associated with
