Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


primary tumor and liver metastases, if possible and otherwise consider tumor debulking ( 149 ). Aggressive resection of the primary tumor in the setting of liver metastases is associated with a survival benefit as both obstruction and further metastatic spread may be prevented. The 5-year survival rate after this surgery ranged from 65% to 73% which is significantly better than that of patients with nonresectable metastases (20%) although this difference might be at least partially explained by selection bias, where only very fit patients receive surgery ( 174 - 176 ). In case of the latter, numerous non-surgical options are available (see liver-directed therapy) and primary tumor, when found to be asymptomatic and stable, is not removed ( 52 , 177 ). However, R0 resection can only be achieved in 10-20% of the cases as the majority of patients presents with multifocal and bilateral metastases and studies suggest that only one third of all liver metastasis are visible on imaging ( 52 , 174 , 175 , 178 , 179 ). Consequently, cytoreductive hepatic surgery is more frequently opted for, but this approach remains controversial as it is incomplete and the target population is not clearly described. It is therefore generally considered that patients with metastatic G1/G2 PNEN in which preferably less than 25% of the liver is affected are eligible for tumor debulking ( 2 , 52 ). Several studies already showed that this procedure can alleviate clinical symptoms in F-PNENs, but also provide better long-term survival ( 2 , 52 , 149 , 180 - 183 ). Moreover, debulking may also be associated with an improved response to concomitant therapy such as embolization ( 184 ). Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is increasingly used in PNEN patients to address hepatic metastases and is often performed during surgery or laparoscopically ( 2 ). Patients with extensive liver involvement, who are consequently ineligible for R0 resection and tumor debulking, may be aided with a liver transplant to improve life expectancy ( 52 , 176 , 185 ). A non-randomized study in 88 patients who met strict criteria of transplant eligibility reported a difference in OS in the transplant (88.8%) and no transplant group (22.4%) after 10 years ( 185 ). Important concerns are the availability of the grafts as well as the lifelong immunosuppression required after transplantation. Also, the exact criteria for eligibility are very similar to those for tumor debulking which
