Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


are the availability of the grafts as well as the lifelong immunosuppression required after transplantation. Also, the exact criteria for eligibility are very similar to those for tumor debulking which makes patient selection difficult ( 52 ). Medical Therapy Use of medical therapy is limited to those with locally advanced or metastatic disease. Some of the current and promising options for targeted systemic therapy are shown in Figure 7 . Figure 7. Overview of the current (blue) and promising (red) options for targeted medical therapy in (P)NETs. This figure has been retrieved from Drugs, Herrera-Martinez A. D., Hofland J., Hofland L. J., Targeted Systemic Treatment of Neuroendocrine Tumors: Current Options and Future Perspectives 79:21–42 © 2019 ( 186 ). Figure 8. Visualization binding affinity of each of the three FDA-approved SSAs to the different SSTR subtypes. This figure was retrieved and adapted from Drugs, Herrera-Martinez A. D., Hofland J., Hofland L. J., et al., Targeted systemic treatment of neuroendocrine tumors: current options and future perspectives, 79:21-42. © 2019 ( 186 ). SOMATOSTATIN ANALOGS As previously described in the functional imaging section, SSTRs are often highly overexpressed in PNENs. Several SSAs including Octreotide (Sandostatin®) and Lanreotide (Somatuline®), which have affinity for different SSTR subtypes ( Figure 8 ), were therefore marketed. These inhibit hormone secretion and thus reduce clinical symptoms in patients with F-PNENs ( 149 , 186 ). Additionally, several studies revealed that SSAs are also capable to control tumor growth with a positive impact on PFS. The antiproliferative effect of SSAs in PNETs was confirmed in the Controlled Study of Lanreotide Antiproliferative Response in Neuroendocrine Tumors (CLARINET) trial. A total of 204 patients with well-differentiated, progressive NETs were included who were then randomly assigned to either Lanreotide or placebo treatment for 96 weeks. After 24 weeks, PFS rates were 65.1% and 33.0% in the Lanreotide and placebo groups respectively ( Figure 9 ). The study also demonstrated that there was no significant difference in QOL and OS in both groups ( 149 , 186 - 189 ). Figure 9. PFS among patients that received Lanreotide (red) or placebo (blue). This figure was retrieved and adapted from The New England journal of medicine, Caplin M. E., Pavel M., Cwikla J. B., et al., Lanreotide in metastatic enteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, 371 ( 3 ): 224-33 © 2014 ( 189 ). As an extension to the core CLARINET study, the CLARINET open-label
