Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


B., et al., Lanreotide in metastatic enteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, 371 ( 3 ): 224-33 © 2014 ( 189 ). As an extension to the core CLARINET study, the CLARINET open-label extension (OLE) reported long-term safety and additional efficacy data. For this purpose, 88 patients with SD were selected from the core study. Forty-one patients continued their Lanreotide treatment, while 47 patients shifted from placebo to Lanreotide. Safety and tolerability were favorable during a mean treatment period of 40 months. In addition, adverse effects, that were either attributable or not to Lanreotide, were found to improve as duration of treatment, hence exposure, increased. Median PFS in patients who had already received Lanreotide in the core study was estimated at 32.8 months ( Figure 10 ). Of the 32 placebo-treated patients who exhibited progressive disease (PD) in the core study, 17 patients persisted in PD, while the remaining 15 patients had a median time to progression (TTP) of 14 months ( 187 , 190 ). Based on the findings from the CLARINET trial, the use of SSAs as first-line treatment for symptom relief and tumor control is recommended in the NCCN and ENETS guidelines for advanced, well-differentiated, unresectable PNENs, particularly those with a high burden of liver metastases ( 149 , 188 , 191 ). Figure 10. PFS of patients that received Lanreotide in the core and OLE CLARINET study. The OLE data is only visualized for patients that were originally assigned to and continued the Lanreotide treatment. This figure was retrieved and adapted from Endocrine-related cancer, Caplin M. E., Pavel M., Cwikla J. B., et al., Anti-tumor effects of lanreotide for pancreatic and intestinal neuroendocrine tumours: the CLARINET open-label extension study, 23 ( 3 ): 191-9 © 2016 ( 190 ). MOLECULAR-TARGETES AGENTS Newly developed molecular-targeted treatments including Sunitinib and Everolimus ( Figure 7 ) have shown to improve PFS in advanced, metastatic PNENs and represent the most common second line treatments that are currently available ( 52 , 149 ). An overview of the most recent findings can be found in Table 3 . The tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), Sunitinib, has been approved for the treatment of patients with well-differentiated, unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic PNENs as it displays an antiangiogenic working mechanism. It actually inhibits vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (VEGFR) 1 and 3, stem cell factor (SCF) receptor as well as platelet-derived growth factor receptors ( 149 ,
