Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


by 4 weeks) was associated with a significantly longer PFS ( 197 ). The RADIANT 3 trial, later on, investigated Everolimus as first line therapy in patients with advanced PNENs ( Figure11B ). Four hundred and ten patients with radiologic progression of disease were randomized to either Everolimus (10 mg once daily) or placebo. The median PFS was 11 months with Everolimus compared to 4.6 months with placebo representing a 65% reduction in estimated risk of progression or death. The proportion of patients alive and progression free at 18 months was 34% with Everolimus compared to 9% with placebo. Toxicities were mostly grade I or II ( 198 ). Similar PFS rates were reported regardless of whether patients were chemo-naïve or had received prior chemotherapy ( 199 , 200 ). Addition of Pasireotide to Everolimus did not improve PFS compared to Everolimus alone ( 201 ). Based on the recent, above-mentioned data, the European Society for Medical Oncology (EMSO) guidelines 2020 recommend the use of molecular-targeted agents such as Sunitinib and Everolimus in advanced, progressive PNENs (G1/G2) ( 191 ). Likewise, the North American Neuroendocrine Tumor Society (NANETS) guidelines 2020 recommend both treatments for well-differentiated, metastatic PNETs (G1/G2) ( 202 ). Both guidelines state there is no support to use Sunitinib nor Everolimus in treatment of PNET G3 or PNECs ( 191 , 202 ). When comparing both molecular-targeted agents, response rates appear comparable ( Figure 11 ). Since there has been no trial comparing the two agents directly, choice of agent may be based on the potential side-effects and patient’s overall health. For example, in patients with poorly-controlled hormonal symptoms, especially hyperinsulinism, congestive heart failure, hypertension, high risk of gastrointestinal bleeding or a history of myocardial infarction or stroke, Everolimus is thought to be the preferred choice ( 194 , 202 , 203 ). On the other hand, in patients with poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, pulmonary disease, or high risk of infection, sunitinib would be a more appropriate choice ( 192 , 203 ). Moreover, up until now several biomarkers have been identified that correlated with the patient’s outcome. An overview of the currently known biomarkers can be found in Table 4 ( 204 ). Table 3. Results from Most Important Phase II and III Studies of Sunitinib and Everolimus in PNENs View in own window Study Patients Active treatment PD at entry ORR PFS/TTP (months) Safety and other
