Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


selection is key so factors such as primary tumor site and stage, differentiation, and proliferation index should be considered. Conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy is often used as first-line therapy for metastatic and progressive PNETs or PNECs ( 149 , 207 ). ENETS guidelines describe the following indications: progression under SSA treatment, worsening clinical symptoms, and/or Ki-67 values > 10% ( 208 ). In a neoadjuvant setting, chemotherapy can play a potential role in tumor shrinkage prior to resection ( 7 ). Two major types of chemotherapeutic agents can be distinguished namely alkylating and platinum agents ( 7 , 149 , 207 ). In practice these are often combined with antimetabolites and anthracyclines ( 209 ). An overview of the most commonly used combinatory therapies and when to employ them is described in more detail below. Alkylating agents such as Streptozocin, Dacarbazine, and Temozolomide are key in the treatment strategy of PNEN patients since they are often employed as second line treatment after progression under SSA ( 207 ). First of all, Streptozocin, a nitrosourea alkylating agent, is taken up by cells via a glucose protein 2 (GLUT2) after which cell damage is induced. Since the compound is associated with significant renal and hematological toxicity in high doses, it is often combined with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) or Doxorubicin with dose reduction, hence reduced toxicity as a result ( 2 , 149 , 209 ). A comparative, phase III study conducted in 1992 reported that the combinatory therapy of Streptozocin + Doxorubicin provided more favorable results than Streptozocin + 5-FU in patients with advanced PNENs ( 210 ). However, the results described in this study have not been confirmed in any subsequent study ( 163 , 209 ). Kouvaraki and colleagues retrospectively studied 84 PNEC patients treated with Streptozocin, 5-FU and Doxorubicin. Response rate was 39% with 2-year PFS and OS of 41% and 74%, respectively ( 211 ). Dacarbazine, a second alkylating agent, serves as a less toxic alternative. A phase II study tested Dacarbazine as a monotherapy in 50 PNEN patients and reported an ORR of 34% and median OS of 19.3 months ( 212 ). When combined with 5-FU, the overall response rate and PFS in advanced NENs were 38.2% and 13.9 months, respectively ( 213 ). A third alkylating agent that is primarily used as monotherapy for treatment of glioblastoma and melanoma is Temozolomide ( 163 , 209 ). When
