Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


( 235 ). There are a number of ongoing international clinical trials listed on Clinical Trials.gov. Third party payer reimbursement is an ongoing issue which hopefully will be resolved. For PNENs, the effects of PRRT have only been investigated in several single-arm prospective and retrospective trials ( 229 ). These, however, identified several signals in favor of PRRT use in PNENs as disease control rates and PFS varied between 84-85% and 30-34 months, respectively ( 232 , 236 ). Additionally, a meta-analysis compared the efficiency of PRRT to Everolimus in GEP-NENs that were not eligible to surgical resection. An ORR of 47% was reported in the PRRT treated subgroup versus only 12% of the Everolimus treated patients. Moreover, disease control rates (81% vs. 73%) as well as PFS (25.7 vs. 14.7 months) were also superior in the PRRT treated subgroup ( 237 ). A recent retrospective study evaluated the association of upfront PRRT vs. upfront chemotherapy or targeted therapy with PFS in enteropancreatic NET patients who progressed under SSA treatment. Patients with a Ki-67 value of ≤ 10% who received upfront PRRT, were reported to have a statically and clinically meaningful prolonged PFS ( 238 ). Based on these findings, it seems important to better define the role of PRRT in the treatment of PNENs within the future. Liver-Directed Therapy As mentioned earlier, the liver constitutes the most common site for distant metastases ( 52 , 172 - 174 ). Since surgical resection and RFA are only feasible in a minority of patients, there are multiple liver-directed therapies available to treat the remaining patients. These methods include transarterial chemoembolization (TACE), transarterial embolization (TAE), or radioembolization, which will be discussed below. Given the lack of randomized data, it is difficult to determine with certainty which method is preferred. Moreover, NANETS guidelines recommend to consider systemic therapy rather than liver-directed therapy when >50-75% hepatic tumor burden is present ( 239 ). A study of chemoembolization combined with SSA treatment resulted in a relief of symptoms in 78% of the patients. Monitoring serum pancreastatin levels predicted a response to this therapy in which radiographic improvement or stability were seen in 45% of patients ( 77 ). In NEN patients that underwent TACE, plasma levels of pancreastatin above 5000 pg/ml pre-treatment were associated with increased peri-procedure mortality ( 240 ). Radioembolization (also known as selective intrahepatic radiotherapy or SIRT) involves embolization of 90 Yttrium
