Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


levels of pancreastatin above 5000 pg/ml pre-treatment were associated with increased peri-procedure mortality ( 240 ). Radioembolization (also known as selective intrahepatic radiotherapy or SIRT) involves embolization of 90 Yttrium embedded either in a resin microsphere (Sir-Sphere) or a glass microsphere (TheraSphere). Acute toxicities associated with 90 Yttrium microsphere embolization appear to be lower than other embolization techniques, primarily due to the fact that the procedure does not induce ischemic hepatitis. Thus, the procedure can be performed on an outpatient basis. A rare, but potentially serious complication is radiation enteritis, which can occur if particles are accidentally infused into arteries supplying the gastrointestinal tract. Chronic radiation hepatitis is another potential toxicity. Response rates associated with radioembolization in metastatic NEN patients have been encouraging. In one retrospective multi-center study of 148 patients treated with Sir-Spheres, the objective radiographic response rate was 63% with a median survival of 70 months, with no radiation-induced liver failure ( 241 ). Another study of 42 patients treated with either Sir-Spheres or TheraSpheres reported a response rate of 51%. However, only 29 of the 42 enrolled patients were evaluable ( 242 ). Grozinsky-Glasberg and colleagues examined 57 patients which underwent either TACE, TAE or SIRT. They reported symptomatic control and a stabilization of tumor growth in 95% of the patients. Noteworthy, they observed improvements regardless of the extent of the liver metastasis ( 243 ). Novel Targets for the Treatment of (P)NENs While there has been a quantum leap in the ability to treat NENs successfully we have a long way to go to cure the disease. Fortunately, research into improved and novel therapeutic strategies is ongoing. So far, the results of immunotherapy as monotherapy in PNET patients remain disappointing. Examples include the inhibition of the programmed death-ligand 1 (PDL-1) and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA4), by treating patients with Pembrolizumab to enhance the immune response towards tumor cells ( 186 , 244 , 245 ). The KEYNOTE-028 phase I study treated PDL-1 positive PNEN patients with Pembrolizumab and reported an ORR of 6.3%, but no CRs occurred. Responses were better in metastatic carcinoids (ORR: 12%) ( 246 ). These findings were confirmed by the KEYNOTE-158 phase II study, in which the ORR was 3.7% with 3 PRs in PNEN and 1 in rectal NEN patients ( 247 ). Currently, several other clinical trials that are investigating the antitumor effect of immune checkpoint inhibitors include NCT02939651 for
