Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


worse utility values were noted with PD compared to SD. Of note, tumor location (midgut vs. pancreas) did not affect utility ( 256 ). PNEN patients treated with everolimus showed stable HRQOL scores as opposed to worse scores in non-PNEN patients (Pavel). PRRT treatment of PNEN patients resulted in significantly improved global health status, social functioning and mitigation of physical complaints ( 257 ). Thus, data are emerging on HRQOL in PNEN patients. However, most studies are too heterogenous in terms of patient populations and treatment interventions to draw firm conclusions ( 258 ). Moving forward, it will be important for HRQOL to be measured as a key component of clinical trials. EXPERT COMMENTARY After many years of frustration, our knowledge regarding the biology, pathophysiology and genetics of (P)NENs increased. This has led to marked improvements in (functional) imaging, with the development of 68 Gallium-labeled SSAs, as well as targeted treatments such as the tyrosine-kinase inhibitor Sunitinib, and the mTOR inhibitor Everolimus. In addition, PRRT seems to be expanding its role in treatment from midgut to PNENs. In the future, both imaging and treatment options will continue to evolve as more specific imaging agents and therapeutic targets are being developed and evaluated in numerous studies. The relatively uncommon nature of PNENs has made designing and completing randomized studies of adequate power challenging for a single institution. Therefore, we encourage the recent trend of multi-institutional, multinational studies in more homogeneous patient populations. We also strongly agree with the recommendation of NANETS, ENETS and other groups that all of these patients should be entered into clinical trials whenever feasible. Determining study availability and patient eligibility has been greatly facilitated by Clinical trials.gov as well as institutional and organizational websites. Enrolling more patients in clinical trials by overcoming barriers to participation will be required to move patient care forward. Unfortunately, to date, the optimal treatment(s) and treatment sequences have yet to be defined. The lack of treatment standardization, the plethora of treatments that most patients receive, and different treatment sequences make it extremely difficult to assess the effectiveness of a particular treatment relative to others. Moreover, head-to-head comparisons are lacking as well. Available consensus guidelines establish broad principles, but are generally not helpful in managing a specific patient. Management has become even more complex given the multiplicity of effective treatments for advanced disease, none of which has convincingly been shown to be superior
