Pathophysiology and Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (PNENS): New Developments
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, patients, tumors, pancreatic, neuroendocrine tumors, journal, treatment, pnens, tumor, free, clinical, pmc, free article, article


in managing a specific patient. Management has become even more complex given the multiplicity of effective treatments for advanced disease, none of which has convincingly been shown to be superior to the other. Hence, an experienced multidisciplinary team is essential to guide management of these patients. Given relative parity of effectiveness, decisions regarding choice of treatment need to be based on multiple considerations, including patient’s overall health, disease burden, symptomatology, rate of progression, treatment toxicity, effect on QOL, and cost. These considerations will usually lead to one treatment being favored over another. Because of the relatively indolent nature of many (or most) NENs, long-term follow-up to assess differences in treatment outcomes, is required. However, biomarkers that can predict response to a particular therapy are currently not available. We expect that in the future the so-called tumor circulome, especially ctDNA, could play an important role in this as recent studies revealed its potential to diagnose, prognosticate and monitor disease progression. 5. Year View Knowledge of the biology and genetics will continue to accumulate, which could potentially lead to further refinements in classification, staging, and personalized treatment. Genetic profiling will become clinically useful as data will accumulate on treatment effectiveness in patient subgroups leading to more tailored therapies. Moreover, biomarkers will be developed that better predict response to a particular therapy. Results of the ongoing clinical trials on newer SSAs and targeted agents will add to the number of available treatments. The role of PRRT in the treatment of PNENs will be better defined. There will be increased knowledge as to optimal treatment sequences. Designing randomized clinical trials of adequate power will remain a challenge for many reasons including the scarcity and indolent growth of these tumors. Consensus guidelines will evolve, but patient management will continue to require an experienced multidisciplinary team. REFERENCES 1. Clift AK, Kidd M, Bodei L, Toumpanakis C, Baum RP, Oberg K, et al. Neuroendocrine Neoplasms of the Small Bowel and Pancreas. Neuroendocrinology. 2020; 110 (6):444–76. [ PMC free article : PMC9175236 ] [ PubMed : 31557758 ] 2. Metz DC, Jensen RT. Gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumors: pancreatic endocrine tumors. Gastroenterology. 2008; 135 (5):1469–92. [ PMC free article : PMC2612755 ] [ PubMed : 18703061 ] 3. Perri G, Prakash LR, Katz MHG. Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. Current opinion in gastroenterology. 2019; 35 (5):468–77. [ PubMed : 31306159 ] 4. Hong X, Qiao S, Li F, Wang W, Jiang R,
