Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: respiratory, military, infections, personnel, diseases, deployed, service, soldiers, tract, deployment, medical, respiratory infections, risk, persons, members


free information in English and Mandarin on the novel coronavirus COVID- 19. The COVID-19 resource centre is hosted on Elsevier Connect, the company's public news and information website. Elsevier hereby grants permission to make all its COVID-19-related research that is available on the COVID-19 resource centre - including this research content - immediately available in PubMed Central and other publicly funded repositories, such as the WHO COVID database with rights for unrestricted research re-use and analyses in any form or by any means with acknowledgement of the original source. These permissions are granted for free by Elsevier for as long as the COVID-19 resource centre remains active. Respiratory Physiology & Neurobiology 209 (2015) 76–80 Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Respiratory Physiology & Neurobiology journal h om epa ge: www.elsevier.com/locate/resphysiol Respiratory tract infections in the military environment Krzysztof Korzeniewskia,∗, Aneta Nitsch-Osuchb, Monika Koniora, Anna Lassc a r t i c l e i n f o Article history: Accepted 24 September 2014 Available online 30 September 2014 Keywords: Military environment Respiratory tract a infections Soldiers b s t r a c t Military personnel fighting in contemporary battlefields as well as those participating in combat training are at risk of contracting respiratory infections. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated that soldiers deployed to the harsh environment have higher rates of newly reported respiratory symptoms than non-deployers. Acute respiratory diseases are the principle reason for outpatient treatment and hospi- talization among military personnel, with an incidence exceeding that of the adult civilian population by up to three-fold. Adenoviruses, influenza A and B viruses, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Streptococcus pyogenes, coronaviruses and rhinoviruses have been identified as the main causes of acute respiratory infections among the military population. Although infective pathogens have been extensively studied, a significant proportion of illnesses (over 40%) have been due to unknown causative agents. Other health hazards, which can lead to respiratory illnesses among troops, are extreme air temperatures, desert dust, emissions from burn pits, industrial pollutants, and airborne contaminants originating from degraded soil. Limited diagnostic capabilities, especially inside the area of operations, make it difficult to accu- rately estimate the exact number of respiratory diseases in the military environment. The aim of the study was to discuss the occurrence of respiratory tract infections in army personnel, existing risk factors and preventive measures. © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. 1. Introduction Respiratory infections are the leading cause of outpatient treatment and
