Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: respiratory, military, infections, personnel, diseases, deployed, service, soldiers, tract, deployment, medical, respiratory infections, risk, persons, members


tract infections in army personnel, existing risk factors and preventive measures. © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. 1. Introduction Respiratory infections are the leading cause of outpatient treatment and are responsible for 25–30% of infectious disease hos- pitalizations in army personnel (Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center, 2010). Because of crowded living conditions, harsh envi- ronment, over-exertion, psychological stress, mixing of people from diverse geographic locations, and exposure to respiratory pathogens in disease-endemic areas, soldiers and newly mobilized troops are at particularly high risk for respiratory disease morbid- ity . Before vaccines were used, even 80% of military trainees suffered from respiratory infections, and as many as 20% were hospitalized during the 2 months of recruit training . Most of respiratory illnesses, including pneumonia, are treated empirically. Without accurate laboratory diagnoses and an early warning system to detect changes in acute respiratory infections rates and antibiotic resistance, more ology and Tropical Medicine, Grudzin´skiego St. 4, 81-103 Gdynia, Poland. Tel.: +48 665 707 396; fax: +48 58 6262116. E-mail address: (K. air-borne Korzeniewski). epidemics are likely to occur in the military environ- ment. Acute respiratory infections (ARI) have significant impact on military operations. High ARI morbidity may reduce the oper- ational readiness of deployed military personnel by causing loss of person-days and increase in medical visits and medical evac- uations. During the military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan respiratory tract infections have been reported in 39.5% to even 69% of deployed personnel (Korzeniewski et al., 2013b; Soltis et al., 2009; Sanders et al., 2005). ARI are the most common cause of missed service days in army personnel among young adults. Almost 90% of all recruits report symptoms of respiratory ill- ness at some point in their first months of military service (Ryan et al., 2001). The unique susceptibility of military recruits to res- piratory infections, including pneumonia, bronchitis, pharyngitis, tonsillitis, sinusitis, and common cold, has long been recognized. Adenoviruses, influenza A and B viruses, Streptococcus pneumoniae and group A Streptococcus pyogenes have been recognized as the primary causative agents of ARI in army personnel, while the eti- ology of over 40% cases is unclear (Wang et al., 2010; Gray et al., 1999). The aim of the study was to discuss the occurrence of respira- tory tract infections in army personnel, existing risk factors and preventive measures. 1569-9048/© 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. K. Korzeniewski et al. / Respiratory Physiology &
