Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: respiratory, military, infections, personnel, diseases, deployed, service, soldiers, tract, deployment, medical, respiratory infections, risk, persons, members


occurrence of respira- tory tract infections in army personnel, existing risk factors and preventive measures. 1569-9048/© 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. K. Korzeniewski et al. / Respiratory Physiology & Neurobiology 209 (2015) 76–80 77 2. Past and present of respiratory infections in army personnel Respiratory tract infections have plagued military personnel throughout history. Records from the World War I in the years 1914–1918 document their devastating power and the inability that more than 1.4 million U.S. Army personnel suffered from res- piratory diseases during World War I, accounting for more than disease deaths. Before antimicrobials were widely available, strate- gies to prevent military epidemics of respiratory disease were not successful (Gray, 1997). against respiratory tract diseases are procedures implemented in the U.S. Forces, where military personnel receive benzathine penicillin G or oral erythromycin, adenovirus vaccines, tuberculo- sis screening, vaccines against pneumococcal and meningococcal infections and against influenza during their initial military train- ing. This is followed by annual influenza vaccines and periodic tuberculosis screening throughout their military careers (Eick-Cost et al., 2012; Mancuso et al., 2010). The pathogens recognized to cause respiratory diseases among soldiers are similar to those caus- ing community-acquired diseases among the general population. Most frequently, they include adenoviruses, influenza A and B viruses, S. pneumoniae, S. pyogenes, coronaviruses and rhinoviruses. Less frequently, military personnel also suffer infections from Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydia pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Legionella pneumophila, Bordetella pertussis, respiratory syncytial virus, and parainfluenza viruses (Dawood et al., 2011; Eick et al., 2011). Moreover, military health service need to focus their attention on the causative agent of tuberculosis (TB). The risk of active TB under operational condi- tions in endemic areas is unknown. It has typically been assumed that the risk of TB is approximately the same as among nation- als in a given country . Despite a potential increase in exposure to TB resulting from deployment to endemic areas, the current rate of active TB in the active component U.S. mil- itary based on surveillance data, remains low – with a rate of 0.7 verified cases per 100,000 person-years from 1998 to 2006, com- pared to an age-adjusted U.S. rate of 4.3 per 100,000 person-years (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2008). The actual con- tact of U.S. military service members with potentially infectious TB cases in deployed settings may be very limited, as many U.S. service members have limited or no contact
