Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: respiratory, military, infections, personnel, diseases, deployed, service, soldiers, tract, deployment, medical, respiratory infections, risk, persons, members


actual con- tact of U.S. military service members with potentially infectious TB cases in deployed settings may be very limited, as many U.S. service members have limited or no contact with local nation- als outside U.S. military installations. Thus, their resultant risk of TB infection may be much lower than that of most civilian long- term travelers. Nevertheless, there is a concern that deployments to endemic and hyperendemic areas such as Iraq and Afghanistan could result in large numbers of potentially infected military ser- vice members . Until late 2008 the U.S. Army tested each soldier within 1 year prior to deployment, then twice on return from deployment, resulting in more than 500,000 tests performed each year in the Army alone. Although some units have noted unusually high proportions of tuberculin skin test (TST) con- verters after returning from deployment, subsequent investigation of these units has suggested that the excess cases are attributable to false-positive skin tests rather than TB transmission (Mancuso et al., 2008). respiratory illnesses among troops deployed to operations and par- ticipating in combat training, are also extreme air temperatures, desert dust, emissions from burn pits, industrial pollutants, and airborne contaminants originating from degraded soil. Barth et al. (2014) investigated the population prevalence of asthma, bron- chitis, and sinusitis among veterans deployed to Afghanistan Iraq and compared to nondeployed soldiers. 20,563 participants of the study completed the survey (64% deployed and 36% nondeployed). Deployed veterans were 29% more likely to have been diagnosed with sinusitis during and after 2001 compared to non-deployers. The authors suggested that environmental exposures such as dust, sand, burning trash or human waste, petrochemical fumes, oil fire smoke, and other ambient air pollution are widespread in the deployment setting and are presumed to contribute to respiratory morbidity among deployed service members. Studies carried out by U.S. Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center focusing on service members deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan have reported increased prevalence of respiratory illnesses. A report looking at out-patient and hospital visits among all individuals deployed on operations between October 2001 and December 2010 demonstrated the “excessive” numbers of respiratory conditions in males and females with repeated deployments (Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center, 2011). Abraham et al. (2012) linked administrative records with medical records of deployed service members and found an increase in the rate of respiratory symptoms and medical encoun- ters for obstructive pulmonary disease, primarily asthma and bronchitis,
