Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: respiratory, military, infections, personnel, diseases, deployed, service, soldiers, tract, deployment, medical, respiratory infections, risk, persons, members


records with medical records of deployed service members and found an increase in the rate of respiratory symptoms and medical encoun- ters for obstructive pulmonary disease, primarily asthma and bronchitis, from before (20.4 encounters/10,000 person-years) to after deployment (30.1 encounters/10,000 person-years). In a pop- ulation of active duty U.S. military personnel, the authors observed an increase in post-deployment respiratory symptoms and medical encounters for obstructive pulmonary diseases, relative to pre- deployment rates, in the absence of an association with cumulative deployment duration or total number of deployments. The authors did note that the rate of respiratory symptoms and encounters for obstructive pulmonary diseases, predominantly asthma and bronchitis, increased from before to after deployment. Smith et al. (2009) reported that among members of the Millennium Cohort Study, a population-based cohort of active duty service members, those who had deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan, had a higher prevalence of newly reported respiratory symptoms (including cough and shortness breath) than those who had not been deployed (14% vs. 10%). No differences were observed for chronic bronchitis, emphysema, and asthma. Military personnel are at a high risk for respiratory tract infec- tions because of their exposure to contagious pathogens and harsh environmental conditions, mainly in disease-endemic areas dur- ing deployments. Sanders et al. (2005) conducted a survey of 15,000 redeploying military personnel from Iraq and Afghanistan and esti- mated that 69% had reported experiencing respiratory illnesses, of which 17% required medical care. A further survey, conducted by the Naval Health Research Center personnel on respiratory symp- toms, found that deployed personnel had a higher rate of newly reported respiratory diseases than non-deployed soldiers (14% vs. 10%) . Korzeniewski et al. (2013b) studied the prevalence of acute respiratory diseases among troops of Polish Military Contingent deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan. The preva- lent health problems reported among 871 Polish soldiers treated in the sick call of the field hospital (level 2) in Iraq in years 2003–2004 were respiratory tract diseases (45.6 cases per 100 persons), with a predominance of common cold (26.9/100 per- sons), pharyngitis and/or tonsillitis (13.3/100 persons), sinusitis (3.1/100 persons), and bronchitis (2.3/100 persons). The increased prevalence of respiratory illnesses was observed every 6 months, when the Polish contingent rotated its troops and when the newly arriving soldiers were undergoing an acclimatization to different environmental conditions prevailing in the theater of operations. Respiratory diseases were the most common health problem in 400 soldiers
