Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: respiratory, military, infections, personnel, diseases, deployed, service, soldiers, tract, deployment, medical, respiratory infections, risk, persons, members


service days among military personnel. The majority of these infections are common colds. However, viral infections may be accompanied by bacterial complications or exacerbations of asthma, and there- fore lead to a more serious illness. Training during the winter months, when most of viral epidemics occur, further predisposes soldiers to respiratory infections . Mäkinen et al. (2009) examined whether the development of acute respi- ratory tract infections (RTI) is potentiated by cold exposure and lowered humidity. In their study, cold temperature and low humid- ity were associated with increased occurrence of RTI, and a decrease in temperature and humidity preceded the onset of the infections. A common phenomenon is seasonal variation in the outbreaks of viral respiratory infections, with peaks often being observed dur- ing the winter months. The reasons for the higher incidence of RTI in winter remain controversial, and several causal factors, such as changes in host physiological susceptibility, immune function, overcrowding, and climatic factors have been suggested. There are some pathophysiological mechanisms to explain how cold expo- sure could increase the occurrence of RTI. The available laboratory cooling of the body surface, or cold stress causes pathophysiological responses that may contribute to increased susceptibility to respi- ratory infections. Mäkinen et al. (2009) observed that low humidity was associated with the increased occurrence of pharyngitis. One plausible explanation for the association between humidity and RTIs is that some viruses, e.g. the influenza virus, seem to be more stable in cool and dry air . Another essential risk factor contributing to increased preva- lence of respiratory symptoms in soldiers is the higher rate tobacco of use in the military and its increased use during deploy- ment. The 2006 National Health Interview Survey estimated that 23.5% of males and 18.1% of females in the United States were smokers. A recent survey of soldiers deployed to Iraq reported that 51.9% of males and 41.7% of females were using tobacco prod- ucts before deployment; 58.3% of males and 52.1% of females were using tobacco during deployment, and 25.4% of males and 48% of females increased the use of tobacco during deployment (DiNicola and Seltzer, 2009). Cigarette smoke is known to cause several respi- ratory ailments, including chronic bronchitis, emphysema and lung cancer, and is associated with an increase in respiratory infections. In addition, cigarette smoking is considered a principal etiological factor responsible for the development of certain diffuse interstitial and bronchiolar lung
