Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: respiratory, military, infections, personnel, diseases, deployed, service, soldiers, tract, deployment, medical, respiratory infections, risk, persons, members


and is associated with an increase in respiratory infections. In addition, cigarette smoking is considered a principal etiological factor responsible for the development of certain diffuse interstitial and bronchiolar lung diseases, namely respiratory bronchiolitis- interstitial lung disease, desquamative interstitial pneumonia and adult pulmonary Langerhans’ cell histiocytosis . Smoking is also an important risk factor in the development of community acquired pneumonia. Infection incidence increases in smokers due to impaired mucociliary clearance, increased inflam- mation and adherence of pathogens, epithelial destruction and changes in the host defense mechanisms . The current guidelines for accession of new military person- nel are service specific, but in general, the established diagnosis of asthma after the age of 12 has been an exclusion criterion. Despite these restrictions, asthma remains a significant problem in active duty military members that may mirror the incidence in the general population . Nish and Schwietz (1992) eval- uated 192 Air Force recruits for symptoms of exertional dyspnea and found that 45% of these patients had a previous diagnosis of asthma. The majority of the patients suffered mild or exercise- induced disease but exhibited clinically significant symptoms to be referred for a formal evaluation. Morris et al. (2002) concluded that nearly half of their active duty patients with exertional dyspnea had either asthma or exercise-induced bronchospasm. Roop et al. (2007) surveyed deploying Army personnel and found that 5% of troops deployed to South-West Asia reported a previous diagnosis of asthma. During military deployment, personnel are exposed to inhala- tion hazards originating from local and regional sources, including the desert environment, unregulated regional industry, vehicles, diesel-powered generators and other machinery, and waste fires (Abraham et al., 2014; Helmer et al., 2007). Also burn pit emissions exposures have been implicated as a cause of chronic respiratory illnesses (Rose, 2012), but no study has identified an associa- tion between burn pit emissions exposure and post-deployment chronic lung conditions. Among a case series of 38 soldiers diag- nosed with constrictive bronchiolitis, 63% reported exposure to burn pits, although a larger proportion of these patients (86%) reported dust storm exposure . The increased frequency of respiratory symptoms and illness during and after deployment, relative to those experienced before deployment, has been reported among Iraq and Afghanistan-deployed military per- sonnel . Diagnosis of infections as the cause of respiratory tract diseases (RTD) has come under scrutiny . There are individ- uals who, under over-exertion, suffer recurrent episodes
