Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: respiratory, military, infections, personnel, diseases, deployed, service, soldiers, tract, deployment, medical, respiratory infections, risk, persons, members


military per- sonnel . Diagnosis of infections as the cause of respiratory tract diseases (RTD) has come under scrutiny . There are individ- uals who, under over-exertion, suffer recurrent episodes of upper respiratory illnesses, but who require a more exhaustive medical assessment in order to exclude non-infectious causes of the res- piratory symptoms, such as allergy, autoimmune disorders, vocal cord dysfunction and unresolved non-respiratory infections. These studies identified that approximately one-third of RTD are caused by infection (bacterial, viral pathogens), one-third are due to a non-infectious cause, while the remaining third are of unknown etiology. The speculative causes of the ‘unknown-etiology’ group could include physical and mechanical damage such as drying of the airways (Bermon, 2007), asthma and allergic airway inflammation K. Korzeniewski et al. / Respiratory Physiology & Neurobiology 209 (2015) 76–80 79 , or psychological impacts of exertion on the immunity (Bjermer and Anderson, 2005). Lange et al. (2003) exam- military training conducted in the desert. Researchers noticed that healthy, young adults exposed to high levels of soil-derived dust may have increased susceptibility to respiratory infectious illnesses after prolonged exposures to desert environments. The increased risk was largely attributable to excess hospitalizations for pneumo- nia and influenza. Whitham et al. (2006) studied paratroopers for 19 weeks, training at sea level. Their main findings were an increase in respiratory infections in weeks 2 and 3, and a progressive decrease in the salivary flow rate during the study, which might have led to hypohydration. In military settings, strain is put on the participants’ immune system in many ways, including strenuous physical activ- ity, sleep deprivation, caloric deficit, and environmental and mental stress. All these factors lead to immunological changes, resulting in a high rate of dropouts due to infections during military training and combat operations . Historically, preventive medicine professionals have explored many strategies to combat respiratory infections among soldiers. Attempts to use dust suppression, ultraviolet radiation, disinfec- tant vapors, and mass prophylaxis have had variable success. One of the easy ways to decrease the number of respiratory infections is personal hygiene. Ryan et al. (2001) observed in their study a 45% reduction in total outpatient visits for respiratory illness after implementation of the hand-washing program. Promoting hand hygiene and reducing overcrowding through the provision of ade- quate living space and cohorting of training units may offer benefits in respiratory disease control . Acute respiratory diseases (ARD) are a frequent
