Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: respiratory, military, infections, personnel, diseases, deployed, service, soldiers, tract, deployment, medical, respiratory infections, risk, persons, members


reducing overcrowding through the provision of ade- quate living space and cohorting of training units may offer benefits in respiratory disease control . Acute respiratory diseases (ARD) are a frequent problem in the military environ- ment. Vaccines are available for only a few pathogens, and may have limited efficacy. Influenza vaccines, for example, must target circulating viral strains to be efficacious, as demonstrated when nearly half the crew of a U.S. Navy ship was affected despite 95% of the sailors being vaccinated (virus isolated from ill crew mem- bers was antigenically distinct from the vaccination strain; with an attack rate of 42%, this outbreak demonstrated the potential for rapid spread of influenza in a confined population) (Earhart et al., 2001). Other vaccines, such as those against adenovirus (ADV) types 4 and 7, were very effective in reducing ADV-associated ARD mor- bidity in military populations for two decades, until production ceased in 1996. Subsequently, pre-vaccine era morbidity (15–20% hospitalization rates) returned . After a 12-year hiatus, military recruit training centers resumed administration of adenovirus type 4 and type 7 vaccine, live, oral (adenovirus vac- cine) to trainees beginning in October of 2011. Subsequently, rates of febrile respiratory illnesses and adenovirus isolations markedly declined . Nowadays, ARD vaccine arsenals in the U.S. Armed Forces consist of measles–mumps–rubella, diphthe- ria, meningococcal disease, pneumococcal disease, and influenza doses. Except for the vaccination schedule implemented among the military members, an important element of effective respi- ratory infections prevention are non-vaccine ARD interventions (NOVARDIs). NOVARDIs used and considered for ARD control include antimicrobials and other medications; management of work and rest; hand hygiene (handwashing and antiseptics); administrative and engineering measures to limit contact between people; decrease the concentration of potentially harmful agents in the environment (by increased indoor air dilution ventilation, air sterilization, ventilation filter efficiency, dust suppression) (Lee et al., 2005). 4. Summary Military personnel are at a particularly high risk of develop- ing respiratory tract infections because of exposure to pathogens contagious and harsh environmental conditions, mainly in disease- endemic areas during deployments. In a population of active duty service members as well as in participants in contempo- rary combat operations, researchers have observed an increase of post-deployment respiratory tract infections, compared with pre- deployment rates. Military medical services put special emphasis on preventing air-borne diseases before deploying troops to areas of operations. Prophylactic actions are primarily based on vac- cinations against influenza and
