Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: respiratory, military, infections, personnel, diseases, deployed, service, soldiers, tract, deployment, medical, respiratory infections, risk, persons, members


deployment rates. Military medical services put special emphasis on preventing air-borne diseases before deploying troops to areas of operations. Prophylactic actions are primarily based on vac- cinations against influenza and adenoviruses, pneumococcal and meningococcal infections as well as treatment by means of targeted pharmacotherapy. Soldiers often experience respiratory diseases, including febrile upper respiratory infections, pneumonia, pharyngitis, and bron- chitis, leading to significant morbidity and missed service days. Adenoviruses, influenza A and B viruses, S. pneumoniae and S. pyo- genes are implicated in over half of the febrile respiratory illness cases reported at medical treatment facilities, while the etiology of the remaining cases is unclear. Numerous studies and reports cov- ering the last 20 years suggest a high incidence of respiratory tract diseases during combat training and on military operations carried out in difficult environmental conditions. The factors contribut- ing to an increase in respiratory infections susceptibility include the combined effects of heavy work in relation to the individual’s physical condition, overexertion, food restriction, and psychologi- cal stress on the immune function. Approximately 40–70% of all soldiers participating in recent military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan report to medical treat- ment facilities due to upper respiratory tract infections. Medical personnel have no capabilities to perform bacteriological or viro- logical diagnostic procedures, therefore they typically administer a course of antibiotics although in some cases antibiotic treat- ment has no clinical justification and may facilitate the emergence of pharmacotherapy resistant microorganisms. If medical services implemented appropriate disease prevention measures (sanita- tion, hygiene, and anti-epidemic support), the risk of developing infectious diseases including respiratory tract infections would be greatly reduced.
