Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Arrhythmias
KEYWORDS: ventricular, cardiac, cardiomyopathy, hypertrophic, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, left, left ventricular, usually, patients, hypertrophy, arrhythmias, tachyarrhythmias, heart, sudden, death


to aggravation of ventricular diastolic dysfunction by rapid ventricular rates. Symptoms and signs often are exertional and include dyspnea, chest pain (usually resembling typical angina), palpitations, and syncope. The syncope may be caused by arrhythmia or outflow tract obstruction. Diagnosis of Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Arrhythmias ECG, echocardiography, and often cardiac MRI Often ambulatory cardiac monitoring Genetic testing Screening of first-degree family members The diagnosis of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is suggested by an ECG showing left ventricular hypertrophy and by characteristic clinical findings on physical examination. Diagnosis is confirmed by cardiac imaging, usually transthoracic echocardiography showing left ventricular hypertrophy, particularly asymmetrical left ventricular hypertrophy. A cardiac magnetic resonance examination using gadolinium is done if required to establish the diagnosis or to quantify left ventricular scarring when needed to further assess risk of sudden cardiac death. Arrhythmia evaluation usually includes ambulatory cardiac rhythm monitoring and exercise testing. Patients also should have regular (eg, annual) clinical follow-ups, including ECG, echocardiography, ambulatory cardiac rhythm monitoring, and exercise testing. Although genetic testing has a low sensitivity, it is still recommended to allow cascade screening of family members. Nevertheless, whether genetic findings predict future life-threatening arrhythmias 2/4 remains unclear. Family members also should have clinical evaluation (ie, to detect symptoms suggestive of arrhythmia and/or heart failure), ECG, and echocardiography. The diagnosis of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy includes considering, and ruling out, other disorders that produce similar cardiac findings (phenocopies), including hypertensive heart disease, athlete's heart, cardiac amyloid, and Anderson-Fabry disease (1). Treatment of Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Arrhythmias Moderation of physical activity For atrial fibrillation, antiarrhythmic pharmacotherapy and anticoagulation for stroke prevention For ventricular arrhythmias, often an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) Heart failure therapy (including transplantation) as required Outflow tract obstruction therapy as required (usually a beta-blocker but sometimes septal myomectomy, septal alcohol ablation, or cardiac myosin inhibitor therapy) Patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy have typically been advised to avoid athletic exertion because such activities foster life-threatening arrhythmias and may hasten disease progression. However, current guidelines recommend that patients may continue to pursue recreational athletic activity after a comprehensive evaluation and shared discussion with an expert specialist in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy of potential risk (and the understanding that individual exercise risk cannot be precisely predicted [1]). Standard measures for treatment of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy include beta-blockers and heart rate- limiting calcium channel blockers. On occasion, right ventricular pacing is used to treat outflow tract obstruction by purposefully inducing interventricular dyssynchrony. Cardiac resynchronization pacing therapy may be
