Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Arrhythmias
KEYWORDS: ventricular, cardiac, cardiomyopathy, hypertrophic, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, left, left ventricular, usually, patients, hypertrophy, arrhythmias, tachyarrhythmias, heart, sudden, death


and heart rate- limiting calcium channel blockers. On occasion, right ventricular pacing is used to treat outflow tract obstruction by purposefully inducing interventricular dyssynchrony. Cardiac resynchronization pacing therapy may be required in patients who have progressed to a dilated cardiomyopathy. For atrial tachyarrhythmias, standard treatment is used: rate-control with negative dromotropic medications (usually a beta-blocker), rhythm control (usually with amiodarone), and thromboembolic risk reduction (usually with warfarin or a direct acting oral anticoagulant). For ventricular arrhythmias, prevention of sudden death is with an ICD, which is recommended for patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and left ventricular ejection fraction of ≤ 35% and for patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation or resuscitated cardiac arrest. Because of the higher risk of sudden death in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, guidelines also that an ICD can be useful for patients with one or more of the following: sudden cardiac death in a close relative at age ≤ 50 years, left ventricular wall thickness ≥ 30 mm, syncope considered to be due to an arrhythmia, left ventricular apical aneurysm, or left ventricular ejection fraction < 50% (class IIa recommendation) and may be considered for patients with extensive late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) on cardiac MRI (a marker of ventricular scarring) or documented nonsustained ventricular tachycardia. (Class IIb recommendation) (1) (see table Indications for Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillators). Antiarrhythmic medications, usually amiodarone, are used to control frequently recurrent ventricular tachyarrhythmias leading to frequent ICD interventions, particularly ICD shocks. Transcatheter ablation of the arrhythmogenic substrate may also be used (1). Outflow tract obstruction also may be helped by beta-blockers and sometimes septal reduction therapy (surgical or by alcohol ablation) or cardiac myosin adenosine triphosphatase inhibition with mavacamten. Key Points Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is arrhythmogenic, predisposing to atrial and/or ventricular tachyarrhythmias and sudden death. Cases may be inherited or acquired. Diagnosis is by ECG, echocardiography, and often cardiac MRI. Atrial tachyarrhythmias are treated with medications and ventricular dysrhythmias with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD). Exercise is not strictly prohibited provided appropriate evaluation and shared decision- making are done.
