www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: patients, blood, donors, blood donors, seroprevalence, igg, hiv-positive, igm, study, hiv-infected, hiv-positive patients, results, group, tick-borne, hiv-infected patients


threats to the safety of the blood supply25,26. However, in individuals with immunologically compromising conditions, including HIV-1 (human immuno- deficiency virus type 1)-positive patients, tick-borne pathogens may cause chronic, debilitating opportunistic infection and even death27–32. Patients diagnosed with HIV-1 are immunodeficient, which is a significant risk factor for diseases caused by specific pathogens, namely those expanding due to the lower level of T lymphocyte (LT) CD4+ cells, since pathogenicity often depends on cellular and humoral immune responses33. In Poland, since 1985, there have been about 22,000 new cases of HIV infection8. As the positive predictive value of serological tests is reduced, in HIV-positive patients diagnostics based on such methods used to be cumbersome34. Improvement in treatment efficacy has resulted in better immune system function of the majority of HIV-positive patients; another con- sequence has been a significant increase in the positive predictive value (PPV) risk of serology-based methods. Prognosis for patients with HIV-1 has improved pronouncedly since the commencement of HAART (highly active antiretroviral therapy) which involves both antiretroviral drugs and efficient regimens. Consequently, HIV-infected individuals have greater chance of living actively, yet engaging in outdoor activities is a risk fac- tor for tick infestation35,36. Until now, there have been only a few studies concerning occurrence of tick-borne diseases in HIV-positive patients, in contrast to other infections associated with the same virus. Additionally, phagocytophilum and Rickettsia have been detected in HIV-infected individuals in Europe so far, out of the broad spectrum of tick-borne pathogens37–40. The objective of our study was to estimate the seroprevalence of six pathogens transmitted by ticks (B. burg- dorferi s.l., A. phagocytophilum, Ehrlichia spp., Babesia spp., Rickettsia spp. Bartonella henselae) in HIV-infected persons and blood donors (representing the control group) in Poland, to assess the frequency of exposure to such microorganisms in immunocompetent and immunocompromised individuals in endemic regions for I. ricinus ticks41. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first serological study on the occurrence of the most common pathogens transmitted by ticks in HIV-1-infected humans. Results Description of the tested group of patients/blood donors. Of the 227 HIV-infected patients included in the study, the medical data (lymphocyte CD4+ T cell level, plasma HIV RNA level, HAART therapy, age and sex, risk group [MSM, injection drug user]) were obtained from 148 patients. In this group, with the mean age of 33 years (range 20–51 years), men predominated (140 patients, 95%). The median lymphocyte
