www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: patients, blood, donors, blood donors, seroprevalence, igg, hiv-positive, igm, study, hiv-infected, hiv-positive patients, results, group, tick-borne, hiv-infected patients


burgdorferi was the predominant pathogen in our study, and about 30% and 5% of HIV-infected individuals were recorded as positive for IgM and IgG, respectively. In this group of patients, the IgM seroprevalence rate was significantly higher compared to blood donors. The significantly higher B. burg- dorferi seroprevalence was observed in HIV-infected patients aged >35 years and with a median lymphocyte CD4+ T cell less than 300/μl. To the best of our knowledge, as of today, only one serological study of Borrelia infection in HIV-postitive patients was conducted, and the results were comparable – a total of 33% sera were positive43. Antigens of Borrelia and Treponema spirochetes often cross-react with each other. False positive results of serologic tests have been obtained in neurological patients with infections with other bacteria in the same group, for instance T. pallidum42,44. Therefore, our positive results of IgM and IgG ELISA tests were confirmed by Western Blot according to the European guidelines45 in order to exclude false positive results. Only half of posi- tive ELISA results were confirmed in WB in HIV-positive patients. Accordingly, our data strongly recommends confirmatory testing in HIV-infected patients with ELISA positive Lyme screening. Borrelia seroprevalence among blood donors in Europe does not exceed 10%46–48. In our study, the IgM and IgG seroplevalence in ELISA tests were rather similar (13.1% and 5.0%), and 23% (IgM) and 80% (IgG) of pos- itive/doubtful results were confirmed in WB, respectively. All blood donors with anti-Borrelia IgG antibodies underwent borreliosis in the last 10 years. It is difficult to determine whether tested blood donors were spiroche- temic at the time of blood giving, yet most of them declared multiple blood donation in the last decade. Till now, there are only limited and conflicting data on the number of spirochetes in the blood of spirochetemic Lyme dis- ease patients49,50. However, as spirochetemia may occur in Lyme disease, the potential for transfusion-transmitted B. burgdorferi exists but has yet to be reported51. Ginzburg and co-authors have postulated that host-adapted B. burgdorferi survives poorly under blood storage conditions, particularly if the number of organisms per milliliter of human blood is low. We have not confirmed the presence of B. burgdorferi DNA in the blood of the tested group of donors (data not published) and, therefore, we conclude that the risk of transfusion-transmitted B. burgdorferi is rather negligible. Babesia is transmitted primarily by ixodid ticks, although blood transfusion is another
