www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: patients, blood, donors, blood donors, seroprevalence, igg, hiv-positive, igm, study, hiv-infected, hiv-positive patients, results, group, tick-borne, hiv-infected patients


donors (data not published) and, therefore, we conclude that the risk of transfusion-transmitted B. burgdorferi is rather negligible. Babesia is transmitted primarily by ixodid ticks, although blood transfusion is another important cause of infection52. To date, babesiosis in HIV-infected individuals has been observed in the United States of America53,54, yet one case has been also recorded in Europe (Spain)29. In those cases, the phase of infection was determined as chronic since it lasted several months. Relapses of babesiosis occurred despite treatment which because of high parasitemia involved blood transfusions54. It is worth to note that recent studies have identified the first case of false-positive HIV serology that was associated with active babesiosis, yet after successful treatment of babesiosis, the positive HIV serology turned negative55. Currently, there is no data on Babesia seroprevalence in HIV-positive individuals. In our study, the IgM B. microti seroprevalence in HIV-positive patients was significantly higher than among blood donors whose estimated IgM and IgG seroprevalence (<2%) was comparable to that reported for B. microti among blood donors in Europe56–58. Nevertheless, IgG seroprevalence among HIV-positive patients and blood donors was similar, and we have not confirmed the presence of Babesia DNA in tested blood samples (data not published). Human babesiosis appears to be rare in Europe9, including Poland11, which is consistent with a low I. ricinus infection rate (1.6–2.8% in Poland, 0.5% in Slovakia, 0.7% in Switzerland)4,59–61. Human ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis are acute febrile tick-borne diseases caused by various species from the genera Ehrlichia and Anaplasma. A. phagocytophilum, causing human granulocytotropic anaplasmosis (HGA), and Ehrlichia chaffeensis, the etiologic agent of human monocytotropic ehrlichiosis (HME), are considered as an emerging zoonosis with clinical manifestations ranging from a mild febrile illness to a fulminant disease characterized by multi-organ system failure, especially in immunocompromised individuals62. HME and HGA have similar clinical presentations and both pathogens could be transmitted by transfusion or organ transplan- tation63,64. Till now, only one case of asymptomatic A. phagocytopilum infection in HIV-positive patient was confirmed40. In our study, HIV-infected patients and blood donors presented a similar rate of A. phagocytophi- lum seroprevalence (<3%). In Europe, among blood donors, antibodies to A. phagocytophilum vary from 5% in Belgium65 to 22% in Greece66. The low A. phagocytophilum seroprevalence rate found in our study is compatible with the small number of clinical cases identified so far67 as well as the low prevalence in I. ricinus ticks in Poland5. In
