www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: patients, blood, donors, blood donors, seroprevalence, igg, hiv-positive, igm, study, hiv-infected, hiv-positive patients, results, group, tick-borne, hiv-infected patients


rate found in our study is compatible with the small number of clinical cases identified so far67 as well as the low prevalence in I. ricinus ticks in Poland5. In persons infected with HIV, ehrlichiosis caused by E. chaffeensis is often life-threatening68. However, the disease responds well to specific, antibiotic therapy, particularly when antibiotics are used at an early stage of infection69. The E. chaffensis seroprevalence in HIV-infected patients in the US was estimated at 1.7% and was similar to the one observed in healthy persons70. Nonetheless, in this group of patients the fatal false-negative results of serological test were reported. Accordingly, the incidence of ehrlichiosis in this population seems to be underestimated68,69. The severe pathology and multi-organ involvement in fatal ehrlichiosis that mimics toxic shock-like syndrome was observed in patients who are immunocompromised due to other infections, such as HIV or chemotherapy, and is thought to be related to dysregulation of the host immune response and immuno- pathologic mechanism that leads to tissue damage and multi-system organ failure71,72. In our study, the rate of IgG anti-Ehrlichia antibodies was almost three times higher in HIV-infected individuals than among blood donors. diagnosis of HME in HIV-positive patients is complicated since the symptoms of HME often mimic typical find- ings commonly associated with HIV-infection70. Although in Europe the incidences of HGE are rather rare and the number of study about E. chaffensis infection in I. ricinus is limited, in HIV-positive patients ehrlichiosis should be considered as potential opportunistic infection. Bacteria of Bartonella genus are distributed in diversified geographic areas and are transmitted by differ- ent arthropod vectors, such as sandflies, the human body louse, the cat flies and probably ticks. Contact with animals and vectors seems to be the most important mode of transmission – although the ability of Bartonella Scientific RepoRts | (2019) 9:2117 | 5 www.nature.com/scientificreports/ to survive in stored blood with the potential for transfusion-associated infection has been shown73. Bartonella hepatic peliosis are classically associated with AIDS74. Bartonellosis in this group of patients seems to be less frequent today, possibly because of earlier recognition of HIV serostatus and the lesser number of individuals with CD4 lymphocyte cell counts below 50 cells/mm3 75. Our study demonstrated low B. henselae seroprevalence rate among HIV-infected patients and it was similar to that observed in a healthy population of blood donors (<4.5%). Bartonella seroreactivity rates varied between 2% and 30% in studies from
