www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: patients, blood, donors, blood donors, seroprevalence, igg, hiv-positive, igm, study, hiv-infected, hiv-positive patients, results, group, tick-borne, hiv-infected patients


rate among HIV-infected patients and it was similar to that observed in a healthy population of blood donors (<4.5%). Bartonella seroreactivity rates varied between 2% and 30% in studies from Europe and the US with higher prevalence rates in intravenous drug users, homeless people, cat owners and veterinarians76,77. Among HIV-infected patients from Europe, anti-Bartonella antibodies were significantly higher than in our study and varied from 16% to 41% of individuals78,79. The likelihood of false-negative serological results are high in heavy immunocompromised patients with active Bartonella infection80. However, the majority of patients tested in our study have good immunological status – in 81% of tested patients, the level of lymphocyte CD4+ T cells was higher than 300/µl and most of the patients (82%) were on HAART. Furthermore, in contrast to the previous study where the prevalence of anti-Bartonella antibodies is inversely proportional to the number of CD4 lym- phocytes74,81, we have not found significant association between the Bartonella serological status and lymphocyte CD4+ T cell level in HIV-positive patients. Our study presented only 19% of patients with low CD4 levels, which could significantly alter our results. Even though the rate of Bartonella infection in ticks in Poland is rather low (<2%82), the serological studies have proved that B. henselae and B. quintana are present and widely distributed in Poland in such specific risk groups as: alcoholics, veterinarians and cats’ owners76. Therefore, the further study determining the Bartonella prevalence among HIV-infected individuals, especially those with a fever of unknown origin, is needed. Intracellular bacteria of the Rickettsiaceae family (spotted fever group (SFG) are responsible for tick-borne rickettsiosis. In humans, the syndrome manifests clinically mainly through rash, fever and ‘tache noire’, i.e. eschar developing at the site of the tick bite83. In HIV-positive patients, only isolated cases of Mediterranean spotted fever (MSF) have been reported and found to be caused primarily by R. monacensis and R. conorii39. Occassionally, MSF presentation is mimicked by primary HIV infection84. Till now, only few serological studies of Rickettsia infections among HIV-infected patients in Europe were performed. Nogueras et al85. have shown that seroprev- alences of R. typhi and R. felis infections do not exceed 7% in this group of patients and were similar to those obtained in healthy subjects from the same region. In our study, the estimated the IgG seroprevalence of SFG Rickettsia was comparable and did not exceed 2% in both groups. Nevertheless, the SFG
