www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: patients, blood, donors, blood donors, seroprevalence, igg, hiv-positive, igm, study, hiv-infected, hiv-positive patients, results, group, tick-borne, hiv-infected patients


healthy subjects from the same region. In our study, the estimated the IgG seroprevalence of SFG Rickettsia was comparable and did not exceed 2% in both groups. Nevertheless, the SFG Rickettsia seroprevalence in Poland seems to be rather high in occupationally exposed populations (forestry and agricultural workers – 36%)86. Moreover, Rickettsia infection in ticks is high and varies from 4% to 53% depending on the tick species (I. ricinus vs. D. reticulatus, respectively)5,87,88. It is likely that, similarly to Bartonella infection, the serologic response in HIV-infected patients with good immunological status could be comparable to that of a healthy population. Therefore, the further study estimating the Rickettsia prevalence among HIV-infected individuals, especially with heavy immunosuppression, should be conducted. In our study, no significant association was noted between the serological status of patients and their age, sex or lymphocyte CD4+ T cell level in HIV-positive patients. Such medical information about patients was available only for 65% individuals, and it was the primary limitation in our study. However, the previous studies, despite the fact that they possessed all the data, did not find any statistical relations between seropositivities and the assessed variables as well43,79,85,89. Very few HIV-infected patients and blood donors were seropositive for two of the six studied pathogens. The single infection and coinfections were significantly more often noted in HIV-infected patients whose immuno- deficiency significantly increases the risk of infection caused by pathogens. Simultaneous seropositivity for A. phagocytophilum and E. chaffeensis was observed in 59% of all coinfections. It is likely that cross-reactive antigens, shared by Ehrlichia and Anaplasma that induce cross-reactive antibodies, may affect the high rate of false-positive results in serological tests62. Due to this cross-reactivity among ehrlichial species, sera should be tested against both E. chaffeensis and A. phagocytophilium antigens when ascribing a specific etiology. Coinfections with B. burgdorferi and B. microti were the second most frequent combination noted only in HIV-infected patients. Dunn et al.90 observed that coinfection with B. burgdorferi and B. microti significantly increases B. microti parasitemia in mice and that larval ticks become infected with B. microti in greater numbers when fed on coinfected hosts. A possible explanation is that the host immune response to disseminating spirochetes is not restricted to the skin and may interfere with the splenic immune response, which is critical for the control and clearance of B. microti infection. Initial case reports suggested that concurrent Lyme disease and babesiosis
