www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: patients, blood, donors, blood donors, seroprevalence, igg, hiv-positive, igm, study, hiv-infected, hiv-positive patients, results, group, tick-borne, hiv-infected patients


and may interfere with the splenic immune response, which is critical for the control and clearance of B. microti infection. Initial case reports suggested that concurrent Lyme disease and babesiosis are associated with severe illness91. Accordingly, concurrent babesiosis should be considered for any patient with Lyme disease who experiences more severe illness symptoms than expected, especially when the patient does not respond well to recommended antibiotic therapy. In our study, the frequency of doubtful results for Anaplasma, Ehlichia and Bartonella was significantly higher in HIV-infected patients than in blood donors. The results of the previous studies have shown that the serolog- ical evaluation of the presence of IgG Ehrlichia antibodies in patients in a single sample is not sufficient to con- firm ehrlichiosis. Non-specific reactions, which are more often observed in the group of patients infected with HIV, may result from the dysfunction of an immunological system, and they might be the consequence of the cross-reaction with other pathogens92. In consideration of the above, examination of many samples using con- current serological and molecular tests might be crucial to confirm infection with the specific grade of pathogen (for example Ehrlichia or Anaplasma)69,92. Similarly, in the case of serological diagnostic of Bartonella, in patients infected with HIV, the non-specific or false positive results of serological tests are explained by the cross-reaction with the following pathogens: Coxiella burnetti or Chlamydia trachomatis93,94. In conclusion, our study confirmed that the seroprevalence of tick-borne infections in HIV-infected patients is higher than that of the healthy population in Poland, however no association between serological status of Scientific RepoRts | (2019) 9:2117 | 6 www.nature.com/scientificreports/ patients and lymphocyte CD4+ T cell level has been observed. The frequency of tick-borne coinfections and doubtful results of serological tests seems to be higher in HIV-positive individuals. Although the advent of HAART had a considerable impact on the incidence of AIDS-associated opportunistic infections, the further ical function despite well controlled HIV replication on effective HAART, should be performed95. In this group of patients, tick-borne pathogens may cause chronic, debilitating opportunistic infection and even death. Thus, via directed anamnesis. The low seroprevalence and negative results of molecular studies of tick-borne patho- gens in blood donors (data not published) have suggested that the possibility of tick-borne diseases transmission with blood is rather negligible, which is consistent with the lack of reported cases of transfusion-transmitted tick-borne infections in Poland. Nevertheless, there is still a
