www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: patients, blood, donors, blood donors, seroprevalence, igg, hiv-positive, igm, study, hiv-infected, hiv-positive patients, results, group, tick-borne, hiv-infected patients


possibility of tick-borne diseases transmission with blood is rather negligible, which is consistent with the lack of reported cases of transfusion-transmitted tick-borne infections in Poland. Nevertheless, there is still a clear need to further such studies in order to maintain a balance between consideration of the real risk of disease transmission with blood and excessively restrictive approach that eliminates blood donors. Methods Selection and recruitment of patients/participants and serum samples. In 2016, serum samples were collected from 199 blood donors (representing the control group) who were diagnosed in AmerLab Ltd. Diagnostic Laboratory of Parasitic Diseases and Zoonotic Infections. Subjects with immunodeficiency were excluded. All participants signed informed consent and obtained a standardized, anonymous questionnaire to record data including age, gender, immunological status, place of residence, the history of tick bite, as well as previously diagnosed borreliosis or other tick-borne diseases. Blood samples obtained from blood donors were stored at room temperature and centrifuged immediately or within a maximum of 12 h after collection. Sera were frozen at −20 °C until further analysis. The retrospective study was conducted on HIV-positive patients who did not have any known history of tick from 227 patients routinely followed at the HIV Outpatients’ Clinic of the Hospital for Infectious Diseases in Warsaw. The study protocol followed ethical guidelines of the 2013 Declaration of Helsinki and the study was approved by the Internal Review Board of the Warsaw Medical University (no. AKBE/24/16). Informed consent was obtained from all individual participants included in the study. All ethical approvals for the study have been obtained in accordance with the Polish regulations. Serological Tests. All serum samples (227 from HIV-positive patients and 199 from blood donors) were analyzed for the presence of antibodies against six tick-borne pathogens by using: (1) Borrelia IgM and IgG ELISA tests (Biomedica Laboratories, Vienna, Austria) for Borrelia burgdorferi s.l.; (2) Western Blot: recom- Line Borrelia IgM and recomLine Borrelia IgG (Microgen, Neuried, Germany) for positive or doubtful results of Borrelia ELISA test for confirmation according to the European guidelines ; (3) Ehrlichia chaffeensis and Anaplasma phagocytophilum IFA IgM Antibody Kit (Fuller Laboratories, California, the USA; positive cut-off 1/512) for A. phagocytophilum i Ehrlichia spp.; (4) Babesia microti IFA IgM and IgG antibody kits (Fuller Laboratories, California, the USA; positive cut-off 1/128 for IgM and 1/512 for IgG) for Babesia spp.; (5) Spotted Fever Rickettsia IgG EIA antibody kit (Fuller Laboratories, California, the USA; the
