www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: patients, blood, donors, blood donors, seroprevalence, igg, hiv-positive, igm, study, hiv-infected, hiv-positive patients, results, group, tick-borne, hiv-infected patients


Laboratories, California, the USA; positive cut-off 1/128 for IgM and 1/512 for IgG) for Babesia spp.; (5) Spotted Fever Rickettsia IgG EIA antibody kit (Fuller Laboratories, California, the USA; the cut-off calibrator is set and the index value for each serum is derived. Indices from 0.9 to 1.1 absorbance units may be consid- ered equivocal, while those above 1.1 are considered positive and those below 0.9 are considered negative) for Rickettsia spp.; (6) Bartonella henselae IFA Human IgM and IgG antibody Kit (Fuller Laboratories, California, the USA; positive cut-off 1/512) with the manufacturer’s interpretation criteria. Statistical analysis. Statistical analysis was performed using IBM SPSS Statistics v. 23.0 software. For the analysis of the results, doubtful serological results of tested pathogens were classified as negative. A descrip- tive analysis of the participants was included and calculations of seroprevalence rates for each pathogen were performed. Seroprevalence rates were compared with the tested group (HIV infected patients/blood donors), age, sex, lymphocyte T CD4+ level (HIV infected patients) using Maximum Likelihood techniques based on log-linear analysis of contingency tables (HILOGLINEAR). Ethics approval and consent to participate. The study protocol followed ethical guidelines of the 2013 Declaration of Helsinki. The study was approved by the Internal Review Board of the Warsaw Medical University (No. AKBE/24/16). Informed consent was obtained from all individual participants included in the study. All ethical approvals for the study have been obtained according to Polish regulations. Data Availability The datasets generated during and/or analyzed during the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.
