CCrroohhnn’’ss ddiisseeaassee:: mmaannaaggeemmeenntt
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, crohn disease, people, treatment, remission, surgery, management, guideline, guidance, disease management, recommendations, committee, azathioprine, nice


including endoscopy if necessary. Specialists should discuss the risks and benefits of continued treatment with patients and consider a trial withdrawal from treatment for all patients who are in stable clinical remission. People who continue treatment with infliximab or adalimumab should have their disease reassessed at least every 12months to determine whether ongoing treatment is still clinically appropriate. People whose disease relapses after treatment is stopped should have the option to start treatment again. [] 1.2.17 Infliximab, within its licensed indication, is recommended for the treatment of people aged 6 to 17years with severe active Crohn's disease whose disease has not responded to conventional therapy (including corticosteroids, immunomodulators and primary nutrition therapy), or who are intolerant of or Crohn’s disease: management (NG129) have contraindications to conventional therapy. The need to continue treatment should be reviewed at least every 12months.[] 1.2.18 For the purposes of this guidance, severe active Crohn's disease is defined as severe abdominal pain and usually frequent (3 to 4 or more) diarrhoeal stools daily. People with severe active Crohn's disease may or may not develop new fistulae or have extra-intestinal manifestations of the disease. This clinical definition normally, but not exclusively, corresponds to a Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI) score of 300 or more, or a Harvey-Bradshaw score of 8 to 9 or above.[] 1.2.19 When using the CDAI and Harvey-Bradshaw Index, healthcare professionals should take into account any physical, sensory or learning disabilities, or communication difficulties that could affect the scores and make any adjustments they consider appropriate.[] 1.2.20 Treatment with infliximab or adalimumab should only be started and reviewed by clinicians with experience of TNF inhibitors and of managing Crohn's disease. [] UUsstteekkiinnuummaabb aanndd vveeddoolliizzuummaabb 1.2.21 For guidance on using ustekinumab, see the NICE technology appraisal guidance onustekinumab for moderately to severely active Crohn's disease after previous treatment.[] 1.2.22 For guidance on using vedolizumab, see the NICE technology appraisal guidance onvedolizumab for treating moderately to severely active Crohn's disease after prior therapy.[] 1.3 Maintaining remission in Crohn's disease 1.3.1 Discuss with people with Crohn's disease and their family members or carers (as appropriate) options for managing their disease when they are in remission, including both no treatment and treatment. The discussion should include the risk of inflammatory exacerbations (with and without drug treatment) and the potential side effects of drug treatment. Record the person's views in their Crohn’s disease: management (NG129) notes.[] 1.3.2 Offer colonoscopic
