CCrroohhnn’’ss ddiisseeaassee:: mmaannaaggeemmeenntt
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, crohn disease, people, treatment, remission, surgery, management, guideline, guidance, disease management, recommendations, committee, azathioprine, nice


fracture risk Refer to the NICE guideline onosteoporosis: assessing the risk of fragility fracturefor recommendations on assessing the risk of fragility fracture in adults. Crohn's disease is a cause of secondary osteoporosis. 1.6.1 Do not routinely monitor for changes in bone mineral density in children and young people.[] 1.6.2 Consider monitoring for changes in bone mineral density in children and young people with risk factors, such as low body mass index (BMI), low trauma fracture or continued or repeated glucocorticosteroid use.[] 1.7 Conception and pregnancy 1.7.1 Give information about the possible effects of Crohn's disease on pregnancy, including the potential risks and benefits of medical treatment and the possible effects of Crohn's disease on fertility.[] Crohn’s disease: management (NG129) 1.7.2 Ensure effective communication and information-sharing across specialties (for example, primary care, obstetrics and gastroenterology) in the care of pregnant women with Crohn's disease.[] Terms used in this guideline CCoommpplleettee mmaaccrroossccooppiicc rreesseeccttiioonn The surgical removal of the section of bowel with visible (rather than microscopic) disease. Appendices L and M of thefull guidelinecontain observational data on adverse events associated with aminosalicylate treatment and immunosuppressives. did not have a UK marketing authorisation specifically for children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council's Prescribing guidance: prescribing unlicensed medicinesfor further information. Seerecommendations 1.5.1 and 1.5.2for when to consider surgery early in the course of the disease for people whose disease is limited to the distal ileum. olsalazine and balsalazide did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council's Prescribing guidance: prescribing unlicensed medicinesfor further information. mercaptopurine and most preparations of azathioprine did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council'sPrescribing guidance: prescribing unlicensed medicinesfor further information. formulations of methotrexate have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication, and the licensed formulations only have a UK marketing authorisation for adults. The prescriber should Crohn’s disease: management (NG129) follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council'sPrescribing guidance: prescribing unlicensed
