CCrroohhnn’’ss ddiisseeaassee:: mmaannaaggeemmeenntt
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, crohn disease, people, treatment, remission, surgery, management, guideline, guidance, disease management, recommendations, committee, azathioprine, nice


should Crohn’s disease: management (NG129) follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council'sPrescribing guidance: prescribing unlicensed medicinesfor further information. FollowBNF/BNFCcautions on prescribing methotrexate. Advice on monitoring of immunosuppressives can be found in the BNF/BNFC. The monographs for individual drugs should be consulted. At the time of publication , not all preparations of azathioprine have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council'sPrescribing guidance: prescribing unlicensed medicinesfor further information. At the time of publication , the combination of azathioprine and metronidazole did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council'sPrescribing guidance: prescribing unlicensed medicinesfor further information. Appendix N of thefull guidelinecontains observational data on recurrence rates after surgery. Appendix O of thefull guidelinecontains observational data on efficacy, safety, quality of life and time to recurrence for balloon dilation and surgery for stricture. Crohn’s disease: management (NG129) RReeccoommmmeennddaattiioonn ffoorr rreesseeaarrcchh The guideline committee has made the following recommendation for research. 1 Enteral nutrition after surgery What are the benefits, risk and cost effectiveness of enteral nutrition in maintaining remission in the post-surgical period of Crohn's disease? To find out why the committee made the research recommendation on enteral nutrition after surgery seerationale and impact. Crohn’s disease: management (NG129) RRaattiioonnaallee aanndd iimmppaacctt This section briefly explains why the committee made the recommendations and how they might affect practice. It links to details of the evidence and a full description of the committee's discussion. Maintaining remission in Crohn's disease after surgery Recommendations 1.4.1 to 1.4.6 WWhhyy tthhee ccoommmmiitttteeee mmaaddee tthhee rreeccoommmmeennddaattiioonnss The recommendations apply to people with ileocolonic Crohn's disease who have hadcomplete macroscopic resectionand who have no residual active disease. This is the population covered in the studies the committee reviewed. The committee was aware that a proportion of people could still have residual active disease after surgery. It agreed that in these people, their disease is not in remission and therecommendations for inducing remission in section 1.2would apply. The evidence showed that azathioprine in combination with up to 3months' metronidazole was effective in maintaining endoscopic remission. While there
