CCrroohhnn’’ss ddiisseeaassee:: mmaannaaggeemmeenntt
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, crohn disease, people, treatment, remission, surgery, management, guideline, guidance, disease management, recommendations, committee, azathioprine, nice


in people with severe active Crohn's disease. The recommendations were updated in May 2016, to provide guidance on the combined use of TNF-alpha inhibitor biologics (infliximab or adalimumab) together with an immunosuppressant medication, compared with biologic medication given alone. An update in May 2019 made new recommendations on maintaining remission after surgery. Crohn’s disease: management (NG129) FFiinnddiinngg mmoorree iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn aanndd rreessoouurrcceess You can see everything NICE says on Crohn's disease in our interactive flowchart onCrohn's disease. To find out what NICE has said on topics related to this guideline, see our web page on inflammatory bowel disease. For full details of the evidence and the guideline committee's discussions, see theevidence reviews. You can also find information abouthow the guideline was developed, including details of the committee. NICE has producedtools and resourcesto help you put this guideline into practice. For general help and advice on putting NICE guidelines into practice seepractical steps to improving the quality of care and services using NICE guidance. Crohn’s disease: management (NG129) UUppddaattee iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn MMaayy 22001199::This guideline is an update of NICE guideline CG152 (published October 2012, last updated May 2016) and replaces it. We have reviewed the evidence on maintaining remission in Crohn's disease after surgery. These recommendations are marked[]. We have also rewritten recommendation 1.2.3 to make it easier to follow. However, no change in meaning is intended. Recommendations marked[]or[]last had an evidence review in 2010 or 2012. In some cases minor changes have been made to the wording to bring the language and style up to date, without changing the meaning. MMaayy 22001166::A new recommendation has been added on inducing remission in people with Crohn's disease. This is marked as[]. ISBN: 978-1-4731-3390-7 Accreditation
