TYPE Methods
KEYWORDS: tick, ticks, mice, feeding, figure, placed, mouse, borrelia, cage, larvae, fed, nymphs, tube, transmission, burgdorferi


animals. This expansion has been exacerbated due to changes in climate that are becoming more hospitable to ticks year-round. In addition, deforestation, reforestation, and development over recent decades are believed to play a key role in the spread of ticks. There are more than 900 tick species that feed on mammals, birds, and reptiles. In the United States, at least 9 different tick species are known to spread diseases to humans (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2022). The deer tick, or black-legged tick (Ixodes scapularis), is the most significant tick species responsible for transmitting at least seven different pathogens to humans, including Borrelia burgdorferi, which causes Lyme disease . This tick species is found throughout much of the eastern and central regions of North America, including the United States, Canada, and Mexico. Deer tick has three different developmental stages- larvae, nymph, and adult, they are most active in the spring and fall but can be active year-round in warmer climates where Frontiers in Microbiology 01 frontiersin.org Scholl et al. temperatures remain above 4°C (Madison-Antenucci et al., 2020; methodology for studying Borrelia transmission, acquisition, and Mather et al., 1989). They are also known to feed on a wide variety of detection by feeding deer ticks on mice. This methodology can be also mammals, including deer, rodents, and humans. Ticks spread multiple adapted to study the dynamics of other tick-borne infections and to pathogens to humans, including anaplasmosis, babesiosis, and Lyme develop improved detection assays in the laboratory. disease (Kugeler et al., 2021; Nelson et al., 2015). While some pathogens are native to ticks, others, such as Borrelia burgdorferi, are Materials and methods acquired via ticks feeding on infected hosts (Eisen and Eisen, 2018). The CDC estimates that roughly 476,000 patients were diagnosed and treated for Lyme disease annually in the United States between 2010 Ethics Declaration: The study was conducted following approval and 2018, up from an estimated 329,000 patients between 2005 and by the White Oak Animal Program at CBER/FDA. The study adhered 2010 (Duffy and Campbell, 1994; Eisen et al., 2016). to the animal research ethics committee guidelines of CBER/FDA. The rising incidence of Lyme infection raises concerns about increased disease transmission through tissue transplantation. For Personal protective equipment instance, there have been reports of active Lyme disease being transmitted following penetrating keratoplasty . In addition, transplant and transfusion-transmitted infections have The proper use of personal protective equipment
